WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 16, 2019
Daniil Medvedev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. MEDVEDEV/A. Rublev
6-2, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. 14 matches in 18 days, just singles.  You also played some doubles here, which is impressive.  Curious how you're feeling?  How are you feeling about all this?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yeah, well, I'm getting a little bit tired, of course, step by step with all the matches.  Helps that I win in straight sets, or losing in straight sets, also, the two matches that I lost.
Otherwise, I think one match 7-6 in the third could be tough for me, but so far, I mean, feeling great, feeling good about my tennis.
Q. Two big matches, late stages of a tournament, playing consecutive weeks against a countryman.  How much different is that of a match for you to approach?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: This is much different, because I think the nerves for both of us were completely different, either the match with Karen or the match here with Andrey.  I think it means it's a bit more important to win against your countryman, and that's why both matches were all a little bit tight and scared, I think.  So I'm happy that both matches I was able to be the strongest this month.
Q. Have you had a chance to think about what clicked?  What made everything kind of fall into place and now you can produce this amazing tennis?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: I think it's experience of playing these big matches, big tournaments, because there are different kind of humans, I would say, that some of them, like probably, let's say, like Shapovalov who can get some form out of nowhere and just boom it in the big tournaments.
Me, I'm different.  First Grand Slam and Masters, first year I was on the ATP Tour I couldn't win one match on Masters event.  I won only one in Wimbledon against Wawrinka, which is kind of a different match than a normal match.
I was gaining this experience of playing these huge tournaments, obligator tournaments where if you lose, you lose a lot of points.  And I think I'm ready.
Q. Do you have any kind of superstition to keep this streak going?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: No, not really.  I mean, I have some small things, but I should say, for example -- I don't know, let's say, what can it be?  If I don't take the ball with which I just served an ace, doesn't mean I will lose the next point.  I don't really believe in superstitions, but I try to keep the routine going.
Q. You're relatively new to the top 10.  What would you say are the main differences between just outside top 10 and being inside top 10?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: It's tough to say, because I wanted to say everything is the same, but what I can say is that the draws are easier because you are higher seeded so you don't get Novak in the second round or even third round, and that's cool.  I have been working for it, and I'm happy about it (smiling).
Q. Maybe more in terms of how you're treated, how other players see you.
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yeah, I mean, of course even when I was, like, 50, 60, because some people say, Yeah, top 10 are treated differently, and I was always say, Yeah, it's okay, they're top 10.  They deserve it.  That's why they are treated differently.
So of course when you come to the tournament, I mean, maybe there is some more attention.  For example, in Washington, tournament provided me car, together with my coach, to move faster and safely and that's just great.
Q. You mentioned Shapovalov.  Some of those players broke through earlier than you.  When you were still gaining experience, did you always see yourself get into this position, or...
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: I should say I never really thought I could achieve what I have achieved this year, but I was always working with this thought in my mind that it is possible.  If you would have asked me one year ago, I would say I think it is possible, but will I achieve it in my whole career?  I'm not sure.
I can say the same for my future goals.  Will I achieve them?  I'm not sure, but I'm going to work hard to do my best.
Q. Can you talk about your next possible opponents.
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yeah, I mean, before the match I would say, for me, Djokovic is more favorite to win, but I watched a few games and Pouille is playing great, so I'm not at all sure.  Let's see how the match goes.
Both tough opponents.  Novak is Novak.  There is actually nothing to say about him.  Just huge respect.
Pouille is not an easy opponent for me.  I won my first match against him only this year, and it was a tough two-hour-30 battle on grass.  We're going to be a tough semifinal.
Q. What do you think it will be like playing Djokovic having beaten him the time before?  Do you feel he'll want revenge?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yeah, I don't know.  I'm curious.  Should ask him, because I think, yeah, I think he probably wants his revenge, wants to show it's him the No. 1 in the world, which he is.
As I say, no matter who I play, it's going to be a great semifinal.
Q. Last week you had a Masters 1000 and got a bye first round.  This week you played first round.  Looks like going forward you will get byes.  How are you planning to use the extra time at 1000s?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yeah, as I said, it's great.  To have bye in Montreal was great because we came Monday during the day, and, like, here, I mean, to play Tuesday or Wednesday after you was in the final is a huge difference.
For example, could see it in Kyrgios who came from Washington, lost to Edmund 4 and 4.  I got Edmund the next round with extra day of practice, extra day of rest and won the match kind of easy.
As I say, that's probably the biggest difference when you are top 8, top 10.  That's why you should be there.
Q. You were going to play your coach at NHL on the last day of Washington.  Who won?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: I won.  Yeah, so first, just to tell you the story, it was in Basel, they had PlayStations there.  I'm quite good in FIFA, so when you have different level in the game it's not funny.
NHL we never played in our life.  So we started playing.  I beat him silly because I'm good at games.  And then he was practicing all the week, and I was, after I lost to Roger, 2-0 down, and I won in overtime.
So in Washington we sit down to play, I beat him like 6-1 with one period to go.  And so he said, Okay, he's practiced all the week and I won 3-2 in a really close battle.
Q. You mentioned Panarin.
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yeah, I honestly never saw him play, even in YouTube, but I know he's a huge player and he's the most paid Russian guy in NHL now.
I watched some highlights on YouTube, and it was great.  So in NHL I was playing for Columbus because in this moment he was in Columbus.
Q. Do you have a feeling, now you are top 10, you have to be more serious and not play PlayStation anymore and that kind of stuff?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: No, not at all.  I love video games, and I basically don't take them to the tournaments because I know otherwise I wouldn't be having all these results because I go crazy and I play too much.
But when I'm at home, just, I mean, don't take my PlayStation.  It's not going to end well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT