ROGERS CUP
August 10, 2019
Daniil Medvedev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Daniil will try to be sixth different ATP Masters 1000 winner of the season and also the third Russian to win the title here in Canada:  first with Safin in 2000, and Chesnokov in 1991.
Questions in English.
Q. It's your first time facing Nadal.  Is it extra special to play against one of the three big legends, Federer, Djokovic, Nadal?  Is there an intimidation factor that comes with playing Nadal in a big final?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yeah, of course it's extra special.  I played Novak and Roger a few times, both of them already.  It's different, I have to say.  Yeah, there is some extra pressure.
At the same time it's fun to play them because, well, that's what I have been working for all my life.  As a kid I saw them already winning Grand Slams on TV.
I would never expect to play against them, especially in the finals of a Masters 1000.  I won't be intimidated.  I want to win every match I play.  Every match I play I want to win.  Hopefully I can do it tomorrow.
Q. Have you changed something, because you don't like three-setters?  You lost against Kyrgios in a two-setter.  Is it changing a mindset to prepare closing the quick way as you can?  In the second set the third was in the air.
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: No, not at all.  I mean, every match I played in my life, you want to win 6-0, 6-0 of course.  Doesn't happen all the time.  But if you can, you win 6-0, 6-0.  That's how I step out on court.  Of course, if you lose the first set, you don't want to lose in two sets.
Actually, I think in the beginning kind of my ATP career and last year when I was not at the level I am now, all the matches I had to win were, like, crazy three-setters.
It just means that I'm playing better now, that I'm able to beat these top players in two sets.  It's a great achievement.
Q. The fact that Rafa didn't have to play tonight, how much of an advantage is that for him?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Actually not sure it's an advantage because he had to wait all the day for his match, and probably it was late, so he didn't practice after.  I don't know.  It's better to ask him this question.
But I don't find it at all as an advantage, yeah.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. You both are the same age and come from Moscow.  When you enter the court to play against your friend from childhood, do you have memories from your youth?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: No.  I absolutely did not think about the times when we were young.  But it is, of course, a very special match.  Before the match, I hadn't thought about that, but I quickly understood it was going to be the match for me to become the top one in Russia, maybe top eight in the world.  So it was a big match.
Both of us, we don't like to play each other, so we were tense, both of us.
Q. At 15 years old, who was the best?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Until 14 years old, it was me.  I think I was like two, three, and he was six, seven.  After 14 years old, when we were 15, 16, juniors in the ITF, he was number one with Andrey Rublev.  I was a bit below.
For today, now it's up to you to decide.
Q. Is it for you the best time for playing Nadal because you're playing so well?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: I don't know if it's the best moment, but it's true that I'm playing very well right now.  I believe if I am able to play like this, it's not going to be easy for Rafa.  It's going to be a big battle.
I'm hoping that I can pull it out.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT