ROGERS CUP
August 9, 2019
Daniil Medvedev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. MEDVEDEV/D. Thiem
6-3, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.
Q. Kyrgios last week had a habit going back on the match point, consulting somebody amongst the fans where to serve.  Do you think that's okay?  If you were the guy losing, do you think that's a bit of an insult or a distraction?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: No, not at all.  I find it's very funny.  We need to ask him because I wonder if he really does what they say to him.  For example, in my match point, I knew he's going to do it.  I thought the fan would want some big bomb on the T.  I went for the T one, and he served wide.  Yeah, I find it really funny.
As I say, I actually try to think about what is the fan going to say.  I don't know if it was him who decided to serve there or not.  I find it funny.
Q. You're backhand is amazingly consistent, always going in.  Do you think anyone on tour could beat you in a backhand consistency drill?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: I think we always have to talk about Novak.  He's I think considered to be one of the best backhands in the history of tennis.  Actually when I play him, I think we challenge each other a lot on the backhand.  We're both good at it.
But still everything depends on the energy, on the shape you are in.  For example, if I'm not in good shape, my backhand won't work as good also.
I try not to think about it.  I try to do my best to be one of the best backhands on tour.  I hope it works.
Q. What is your relationship like with Stefanos now?  You took the plane together over from Washington.  And what do you think of Nadal and Federer coming onto the players council?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: First question, we don't have a relationship, if I can answer like this.  I'm not talking about...  (Laughter).  I mean, tough to say.  As I always said, I'm not enemies with him, but we're definitely not friends.
Second part, I actually didn't know this till yesterday when it was announced.  I know I'm young, and honestly I don't know much how the players council works.  I know a little bit.  So I think probably for sport it's good.  That's all I can say.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. Given the quality of Thiem's game right now, were you surprised to have such a short match today?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: No, of course I was expecting a tougher match.  I was happy that I was able to play so well, to beat him so easily.  It saved me a lot of energy.  It gave me a lot of confidence, so I'm very happy.
Q. Earlier this week some players said they didn't want to play against Kyrgios, we don't know what to expect.  Kyrgios said something about you.  What do you think?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yes, I heard.  But I'm happy he talks about me because when a player says something, it's always a good thing for you.  It means he respects you as a player, as an opponent.
He sees I'm in very good shape right now, that it's not easy to beat me.  This is what it means, I believe.  Of course, it's good.
Q. You had good support from the crowd today.  Do you have the impression you are building a love relationship with the public in Montreal?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: I'm hoping it's the case.  I like to be in Montreal.  I can speak one of my three languages.  I hope that the crowd likes the way I am on the court.
Q. Before the match you practiced at the same time as Dominic on center court.  How does it go in those circumstances when both players who are going to play a match are practicing together?  Do you change your shot selection not to show your tactics for the upcoming match?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: It's a tough question.  Normally we try not to practice together at the same time.  It was the first match of the day today and I wanted to practice at 10:30.  He wanted 10:30, too.  We practiced together.
After we did things normally.  I did what I am used to doing.  He did the same.  I believe it's impossible to see the other player's game.  We see each other on the tour every day.  It's impossible just after one practice to say, I have to hit to his backhand, for example.
Q. Tomorrow it will be Khachanov or Zverev.  I know you are good friends with Karen.  Do you prefer one or the other player?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Of course, I'm supporting Karen.  He's from the same country and a good friend.  I see he's up 2-Love.  I will watch the match.  It's going to be a good one.  I will prepare for whoever wins.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT