ROLEX MONTE-CARLO MASTERS
April 19, 2019
Daniil Medvedev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. MEDVEDEV/N. Djokovic
6-3, 4-6, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Great match.  In particular, in the third set, you raise up the level.  First set maybe Djokovic was not very focused, but in the third set you were playing very well and very consistent.  What do you think about that?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yeah, it's exactly like this.  Novak was not amazing first set, so I needed to hold my level and take my chances.  That's what I did.  Nothing much to say.
Second set he managed to raise up his level, even though I had break point in the beginning.  I tried to stay with him till then to try to break back.  Didn't happen, but I think it helped me to stay straightaway also close in the third set, that I didn't let him win, like, 6-2 the second set or something like this.
And third set at one moment he broke.  I don't know if it's because of me or because of him, but I'm happy that I managed to maintain my level throughout the whole match.
Q. First semifinal in a tournament like this.  Your sensation?
A. Just happy.  At the same time, until you win a tournament, you're never too happy, because I have a semifinal to play tomorrow.  I want to win it (smiling).  As I say, happy for the win but looking forward to tomorrow.
Q. About your next match?  You will play against Lajovic.  What do you think?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: I played him once, but it was indoor hard courts, which is totally different.  I don't think Dusan likes to play indoor hard courts.
He's making amazing week.  I think he didn't lose a set.  I don't know his first round, but maybe he didn't lose a set.
I saw today he was playing really great.  I mean, he beat Dominic yesterday, so never going to be an easy match, but I need to do my best to try to win it.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. Since you live here, is it all the more special to win, in general, in this adoptive home of yours?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: It is great for me to reach semifinals, because it's been two years and something that I am a Monaco resident, and it's been five years since I have been living in the South of France.  It's like my second home, so it is definitely a big pleasure.
Q. Has your defeat in Melbourne against Djokovic helped you to approach this match?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yes, it was very helpful, because Djokovic was at his best level in Australia, but even if he was at his best level, I knew I was able to make things difficult for him.  So it was a tough match for him and for me, too, because I didn't win.
But I knew I am perfectly able to do the same today and I had my chances, so I tried hard.  I made it.
Q. So if I get figures right, you only won once on clay last year.
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Two.
Q. Two?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Two.  Once when I was in Hamburg against Struff...
Q. No, last year.
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Oh, yes.  Last year, only one.  That's right.
Q. Have you done something different all along the last weeks?  Do you love clay, or did you hate clay before?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: When I was junior, I loved clay.  Now what I can say is that I have played better on hard surface, but the thing is that it's been three years since I have been in the circuit, and the last two years we have to know that clay court season is not that long.  It's only one month and three weeks.  I was injured one year.  Then I had mononucleosis that kept me away from the courts for a certain time.
I only played three tournaments then, and then I remember that I was cramping two out of three matches due to that.  Last year, the same thing.  I had problems with my knee, some personal problems, too, and I couldn't be 100% on the court.  That happens.
But now I feel fine.  I am happy.  I have only prepared one week, but it was a very good week, so I feel ready.
Q. I read somewhere that you were training with Andreev.  Is that true?  Has he helped you a lot?  Has he given you specific advice?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yes, I think so.  But then again, if you give me too much advice, I get blocked and I cannot play anymore.  But he is a very calm person, and he gives the advice that is necessary.
He's not giving too much.  Just enough.  Just a precise level of advice I need.  So it's been a very good week with him, and he's not here because he has a Fed Cup and this is why he's not here, because he's the captain at the Fed Cup.
But I think that all the advice he gave me was very good.  And together with Gilles, they made a very good team.  The first objective was to make me play the most possible and make me make progress as much as possible.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT