ROGERS CUP
August 6, 2019
Daniil Medvedev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   
 Q.  You've spoken many times about how this run you've sort of had started when you increased your professionalism, all of that.  Now that you're into the top 10, what do you think it's going to take to keep going even further?  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: I honestly think I just need to continue what I'm doing right now.  It has been working well.  I, of course, need to go further and I want to go further in Masters Series, in Grand Slams.   
I think I'm doing all the right things in order to try to achieve it.  I'm going to continue working.   
 Q.  Sort of talking about your game, of course we know that you serve well, you get a lot of balls back.  A lot of guys say it frustrating to play you.  What do you think the challenges are that you present to other guys?  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yeah, I think except of course my serve, the biggest challenge for my opponents is that I'm really good at putting the balls back in play, as you said.  That's what I'm trying to do.   
If you miss the ball, you lose the point.  You need to put it in the court no matter how hard it is.  That's kind of my mentality.  That's the toughest for my opponent, I think.   
Still I'm able to play aggressive, if I need to.  I'm able to have different styles of my game.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  You're going to play Kyrgios in the second round.  Tell us what happened in your mind, what you need to change for this match compared to Washington?  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: First, it depends on whether he's going to win or not.  I will watch the match tonight.  I don't know if he wants to play today or not.   
If he's like he was in Washington, he's supposed to play well.  The only thing I have to change is to win the tiebreakers.   
In that match, we had no breakpoints, neither one of us.  He played the tiebreakers better than I did.  I was more tense and made more mistakes than I should have.  That is what I have to change.   
 Q.  After playing the final against Kyrgios in Washington, you said that you hoped you never have to play him again.  Was it a joke?  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: It's tough to play against him, so I hope Edmund will win.  I said that as a joke.  But it's true, he's very difficult to play.  It's easier to play Edmund.   
I have nothing to say.  I'll watch the match, talk with my coach to see who will be the next opponent.   
 Q.  Do you see a difference in the speed of the courts between Washington and here?  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: It's tough to say.  First, the weather is different.  It's more humid in Washington and warmer there.  That's the first difference.   
It's difficult to explain because the balls are the same, so it's not that different.  I believe here is a bit slower than Washington.  Washington was very fast.  It's easier here to keep the ball in the court.  That's all.   
 Q.  Do you know the guy you practiced with yesterday?  I noticed him.  I know he's a student, but he was playing pretty well.  Mainly he had an impressive backhand.  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: I know his name.  He played very well, indeed.  I was surprised.  It depends sometimes.   
We just called from Washington saying, Can I have a hitting partner?   
They said, Yes, of course, we're going to get you one.   
It depends.  Sometimes it's a good one, sometimes not as good.  Sometimes they can't put the ball into play because it's tough to play against the top players.  But he was playing well.  He put all the balls in.  His name was Kevin, if I'm not mistaken.  I don't know his last name.   
 Q.  You have your best ranking right now.  Is it something special for you to be in the top 10?  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Well, it makes me happy.  It's the reason why I'm working so hard.  But I only want to be even higher.  All my life I will be working to be higher than what I am.   
 Q.  Is there a competition with Karen Khachanov?  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Well, as I said, we are working for ourselves, not to be the top one in Russia.  If, for example, Karen is No. 1 in the world, I'm No. 2, I will be happier than if I'm top 7 and higher in the rankings than him.   
But I know he's not far.  Every time he's in a tournament, it's going to be interesting.  I will see if I can play well and pass him.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT