SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL
January 12, 2018
Daniil Medvedev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. MEDVEDEV/F. Fognini
2-6, 6-4, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. That was a big turnaround today.  6-2, 3-1 down, you pretty much won every game that happened then.  What was the factor that turned it around so strongly?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Honestly, I cannot even say myself.  I'm just very happy that it happened like this.
Until 6-2, 3-1, Fabio was playing unbelievable.  And me, I felt that I didn't show my best tennis.  So then suddenly it started to turn around step by step, and then finally, as you say, I almost didn't lose a game.
I'm really happy, because it was a tough battle there.
Q. Was it something you did, in particular, to help you turn around?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: I tried to do it -- ever since I started losing this match, I was like, in my mind, I have to put more energy, try to be more physical in the shots, but it didn't work so well.
But finally at some moment it started to work.  I could feel him a little bit down because he was leading, and we know Fabio, he can get crazy if he's leading and he starts to lose.  So I was waiting for this and I got it.
Q. Did you come into the match or did you feel even when you were down the confidence having won so many matches this week leading up, like a winning feeling?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Before the match, of course it could help me a lot, because to win five matches, especially three major matches against great players and two of them easy was a great feeling.  During the match when I was losing, I can tell you I didn't have a lot of confidence.
Q. Did you find the conditions were a struggle today?  It was much hotter than it has been.
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yes.  It was not the heat for me.  It was very humid today, first day when it was very humid, and it was really tough physically.  I found it very hard (smiling).
Q. We have to wait to see who is your final opponent tonight, but from an Australian perspective, everyone is very excited by Alex De Minaur.  What do you know about him?  Thoughts on playing him or perhaps it could be Benoit?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: I don't know so much about him, but I saw him play in some tournaments and I knew already before that he's gonna be a great player, because I remember he was playing with Technifibre before and we had a camp where I played like some tiebreaks with him.  He was, like, 15.  I said, Wow, this guy plays so good.  Because he beat me on -- it was only me serving and he beat me.  I was, like, Wow, this guy is amazing.  He is going to be good.
And he's becoming good now.  I wish him all the best.  It's nice to see some young guys coming up.
But Benoit is playing amazing tennis here also.  I'm just going to see the match and then try to prepare to my opponent.
Q. This would be your first ATP title, wouldn't it, if you were to go on and win in Sydney; is that correct?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: If I would win, yeah.  It's my second final.
Q. What kind of motivation is that, I suppose, to change the result of the other final and break through for that first win?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: I mean, I'm very happy, first of all, because life on ATP Tour is not easy.  Every match you win, you're glad to win it, no matter first round, second, so it goes step by step.  To win here six matches in a row, to be in my second ATP final, to have the chance to get the title is amazing feeling.  I'm just motivated to do it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT