CITI OPEN
August 2, 2019
Daniil Medvedev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. MEDVEDEV/M. Cilic   
6-4, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How would you describe your match today in terms of you played a quality opponent a day after winning last night?  How would you describe your feeling today?  What went right for you?  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yeah, first of all, I served really great.  That was one of the keys because we had only one game in the match where anybody has breakpoints, and it was me.  I broke him in the first set.  Either from that game, we had zero breakpoints.  It was a really tight match.   
I managed to do what I had to do:  hold my serve and win the tiebreak.  I'm really happy with my level of play also.   
 Q.  Do you have a different mentality when you reach the top 10?  Do you put extra pressure on yourself, something that comes with that spot to stay within the top 10?  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: No, I try to do everything as I did before to become the top 10.  I'm still going up.  No, I try to do all the same:  hard work, just try to win.  I always said my first goal is to win every match I play.  This doesn't change.   
After, for sure you have some pressure because, well, you want to stay in the top 10, you want to go up in the top 10.  It's getting harder and harder to gain even one spot, which is normal.   
But as I say, if I play good, if I manage to win matches, I'm going to be higher.   
 Q.  Is there anything that you've been working on specifically that's really helped you kind of propel yourself up the rankings lately?  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Nothing specifically, but everything.  As I said, like last two years, two and a half years, I dedicated my life to tennis in terms of, of course, I was always playing tennis, practicing hard, but starting two years ago I really said to myself, Okay, now it's time to just think about tennis, practice.  If you have a day off, of course you don't think about tennis.  Other than that, every moment I'm on the court I'm trying to think, Okay, how can I win the match?  Every time I'm in practice, I'm trying to think, What should I work to be better in the tournaments?   
That has worked out a lot.   
 Q.  You played Peter Gojowczyk next, the lucky loser here.  How much do you know his game?  When you're playing somebody like him, an underdog, able to play so freely, how does that change the match for you?  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: I know him quite well, in fact.  I played him in challenger once.  That was my best challenger result this moment.  I made semis beating him in second round.  It was a really big win for me, maybe the biggest at this moment.   
I know that he can play really good when he's in good shape.  I mean, I saw the match today.  He was playing high level tennis.  I just need to try to show my best.  That's how I can win.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT