NEXT GEN ATP FINALS
November 9, 2017
Daniil Medvedev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. MEDVEDEV/J. Donaldson
3-4, 4-2, 4-3, 4-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. First of all, what made the difference in the match today?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Was a very tough match.  Jared had nothing to lose, so he was hitting all the balls full power and putting a lot of them in.  I was even a little bit frustrated and panicking, but I'm very happy that I managed to stay in the match and to win it in four sets.
Q. How difficult is it to play a match and win and then still not know if you're going through to the next round?  Must be quite a strange experience for you.
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yeah, of course, because I guess it's my first singles tournament where I play in the group.  So first of all it was very tough during the match, because I knew that I have to win to have more chances to go through, so I was very nervous, even I can say one of the most nervous moments on my season so far.
And now I'm actually just happy with my performance this tournament.  Hope to be through to the semifinals after Borna and Karen's match.
Q. Talking about your season, what are the positives you may take from this year?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Well, I had lots of up-and-downs.  Talking about positives, let's say I played only one challenger event this year, so it means that I was able to be in the top 60 or top 70 almost all of the year.  This is one of the positives.
Again, a lot of experience on the tour.  The first year is the toughest, I think, for many guys, so I know a little bit what I have to improve, what I have to focus on more.  I beat some top guys, which is also a good sign, so I'm going to keep working and hope to be better next season.
Q. What is your ideal play style of tennis?  Which part of your game that you want to working on especially?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Well, I consider myself as a very all-around player, so I don't have any special weak places.  At the same time, I don't have some best shots on the tour, so I think I need to work, first of all, physically and mentally, especially physically, because that's where I'm a little bit lower than other guys.  I have been sick this year, which I guess is still feeling right now, because to have cramps after 1 hour 30 with Karen is a little bit strange, so that's the two most important parts.
Q. Talking about the format, is there any rule you would like to see in the future at ATP level, as well?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: I think the shot clock is pretty good, because I said before, of course, I got some time violations in my career, but sometimes you walk around, start to bounce the ball, you get a violation.  I don't have a timer in my head to see it was already 25 seconds.  So here it's pretty fair.  If you get a time violation, you can see this, so it's your fault.  That's what I want to see on ATP Tour.
Q. As a player, you actually take a look at the clock?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yes, of course.  I mean, I need to be on time, so I don't want to get a time violation.  Of course I look at that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT