ROLEX MONTE-CARLO MASTERS
April 20, 2019
Daniil Medvedev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. LAJOVIC/D. Medvedev   
7-5, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  You were winning 5-1.  What happened there?  He started improving his game and gave you trouble?  How do you explain this?  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: I think he started playing better and better gradually, and when we were at 5-3, 5-4, he didn't miss any point.  I think that was what happened.   
If I look back in hindsight, then when I was 5-1 or 5-2, I could have taken advantage of some chances and finished up then.  Then we never know how the match could have ended.  So I have nothing to say, because this is not what happened and I have to congratulate him.   
 Q.  Did you feel nervous?  Or what happened?  It seemed, from the outside, we didn't get the impression that you stopped fighting.  Was his level that improved?  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yes, that is exactly what I felt.  The only time, probably on the first game of my serve at the beginning of the second, I was not as concentrated as I should have been, and probably that's what made a difference.   
But when I lost my serve, I said, It doesn't matter.  I will fight until the end.   
And then when I was 15-Love and then when I was 40-Love, doesn't matter.  I kept on fighting.  I saw Munar, I saw Fognini and Coric, and we know that on clay at any time the match can turn around.  The proof is that I was up 5-1 in the first set and things actually changed.  So I was saying to myself that probably at any point I will be able to turn it around.  But it didn't happen.   
 Q.  Can you talk to us about him?  He's quite a surprising finalist in Monaco.  What does it feel like to play against him on clay?  Did you see any difference as regards the player he used to be in the past?  Do you think he's becoming a big or a great player?  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: If he's able to play every tournament as he has been playing this one, I'm sure he's going to become top 20 after the clay court season.   
But then, as I was saying, up until 5-1, I was playing well and he was playing not that well, but as from 5-3 he started playing really big.   
 Q.  He has that chopped backhand.  Is that a problem on clay?  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Normally I don't mind the chopped backhanded shot.  I keep calm.  But today with the wind, he did a very good chopped backhanded shot.  It gave me trouble today.  Sometimes his shot was very near to the line, and he used it to throw off my balance.   
 Q.  How did you feel playing with the wind?  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: It was very difficult, but it is true that at the beginning I sort of took charge of that.  There was lots of wind from the start to the end.  I cannot say it was really good for me.  It was actually difficult for both of us, anyway.   
 Q.  You are satisfied with your performance during this tournament?  You arrived to semifinals.  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Well, yes and no, because when you don't win a tournament, you are not satisfied.  But it was a good result.  I reached, for the first time in a Masters 1000, quarterfinals, semifinals.  I won against two top 10 players.  I won against Novak.  It is really satisfying.   
 Q.  How do you envision your clay court season?  Do you set up these results as an objective on this surface?  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Well, not really.  I don't think that far ahead.  I don't have a specific objective.  I don't say to myself, I will go to Barcelona and I will reach semifinals.  No, it's not that way.  I take match after match.   
I will go to Barcelona.  I'll see how I feel, and then I will take tournament after tournament.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT