BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL
January 5, 2019
Daniil Medvedev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. MEDVEDEV/J. Tsonga   
7-6, 6-2   
 Q.  Congratulations.  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Thank you.   
 Q.  Daniil, well played.  You said on court obviously you had a little deficit early on in the first set, but what did you feel like was key for you to turn things around against Jo?  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: The key was to stay solid because I had a lot of opportunities in the first set.  I felt like I deserved to win it, and he was 6-4 up on the tiebreak.  One serve to keep my second serve, so it was not easy to get it back, but I think it's a deserved win, good match, and nothing else to say.   
 Q.  The way you're serving at the moment must make you feel invincible out there.  Incredible.  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: I mean it's still not like Raonic.  I would say I even serve slower than Jo.  I didn't see the percentage.  Yeah, probably he didn't serve amazing today in terms of percents.  But I have been working a lot, as you see, finally even with my head, I cannot go 210 kilometers.  Never goes over 200 almost.  But if I manage to keep it up with 200 doing that much aces and hurting my opponents, it's a great job for me.   
 Q.  And serving smart, I guess.  You know where you're putting it.  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yeah.  I mean, and after -- the most important thing is the percentage, because I mean it's so much tougher to play with the second serve.  Even in some matches you get kind of the same percentage on wins on the first and second serve, it's still so much tougher mentally to play from the second serve.  You can make a double fault.  So I'm happy with the way I was serving these three matches and I hope to continue during the whole season.   
 Q.  Do you think with your game at the moment it's good enough to take down the best in the business?  The Federers?  Nadals?  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: I mean I haven't played them here, but I played three incredible players of our sport who are all in the Top 10.  Murray was No. 1.  Raonic No. 2 or 3.  So it shows that I have something in my game.  After to get the experience and to be better every day to beat the champions.   
 Q.  Are you surprised at how well you're playing this early in the year?  You've improved so much last year, and you seem to have gotten at the same level again.  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yeah.  I am trying to improve every day, so I cannot say for sure if I improved something compared to my last tournaments of the season, but at least I'm happy that my wave continues.  So finishing the year strong, starting the first week with a final already.  Have one match to play.  Who knows what's going to happen there tomorrow, so I'm just happy about it.   
 Q.  You've played (indiscernible) before.  What sort of approach do you take in the leadup?  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: I think the approach is easy.  I take it match by match.  So I don't care if it's the final or the first round.  If you lose the first round, you won't be in the final.  It's a normal match.  I think it helped me a lot to think like this, and I'm going to prepare like I do every day and I'm going to try to win it like I do every day.   
 Q.  And just your thoughts on Nishikori?  He's playing well.  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: In fact, I was sleeping today during their match.  I saw only one game which he broke running, amazing.  We all know how he plays.  He's an amazing player.  If he can beat Chardy 2 and 2, that means something.  So I'm going to go out there and try to show my best and we'll see who wins.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT