NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: COKE ZERO 400 POWERED BY COCA-COLA
July 5, 2015
Greg Ives
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We are now joined by our race winning crew chief Greg Ives with the No.88 Nationwide Stars and Stripes Chevrolet.   This is your second win this season in your inaugural season with the 88 team; having a little bit of success here.   You guys dominated with 98 laps led.   Talk a little bit about the race. 
GREG IVES:   Well, it all kind of started out when we got down here Friday.   I've been kind of preaching that to our guys, to myself and to the media throughout the year of if we start qualifying better, we'll end up having more success and be able to dictate some of our pit strategy off of that. 
We were able to do that by setting a fast lap in practice, one, expecting it to rain out Saturday, and plans don't always come together, and they did, so we were able to get that No.1 pit stall and we were able to win from the pole. 
It's definitely something that we need to drive home through our guys, through myself, through Dale, to make sure we do our jobs on Friday so it makes the Sunday win even better. 

Q.   Greg, this package that they have here with the plates and the tight racing combined with the 200 miles an hour seems to be a recipe for disaster that we came very close to again tonight.   Do you agree with that, and what would you do to try and make things a little more sane here? 
GREG IVES:   Well, I mean, it's the racing that we have to abide by.   I mean, I'm not here to dictate rules.   I'm not here to point NASCAR in the right direction.   I'm here to take what they give me and try to win races with it. 
You know, it's an unfortunate situation that we get into at the end.   I believe in 2013 I was part of something with Regan Smith on the XFINITY side and having something similar, as well.   It's not a good feeling.   You definitely don't celebrate the victory at the end like you should just because the fans potentially could be hurt.   I did not know the condition they were in at the time, and Austin definitely took a wild ride. 
You know, you want exciting racing.   Fans want to see a good race.   It's what it is. 
If there was no passing, if there wasn't close racing, then there would be another problem.   I commend NASCAR for trying to work on things, as they are going to in Kentucky and maybe throughout the year.   So we've just got to take their rules.   They have a lot of people that are giving them advice, and I just take their rules and I try to expose where we can to win races.   That's all I can do. 
THE MODERATOR:   Greg, thanks a lot.   Congratulations on the win. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT