AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2020
Wang Qiang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
WANG QIANG/S. Williams   
6-4, 6-7, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Talk a little bit about your emotions. How has the last hour or two been?  
WANG QIANG: Yeah, I'm really happy now, still happy (smiling). I always believe I can do this one day. But I don't know which day, but is coming today.   
I really happy to see it happens. I did really hard work in off-season, so is pay, yeah.   
 Q.  What did you do differently in the off-season to improve so much since the US Open?  
WANG QIANG: Really hard work, hard work in the gym. I think I have more power than last year.   
 Q.  After you played Serena in New York, in the press conference you said that the power was too much, that you needed to get stronger, that you had to work harder. How much did taking that loss help you win today?  
WANG QIANG: Yes, a lot. I do gym really, really much. I think is worked. You can see the result, is worked, yeah.   
 Q.  Can you tell us what was going through your mind when you lost the second set when you had all those chances? Do you think she made more mistakes than you expected? Was it a strategy that helped you to her make those mistakes?  
WANG QIANG: Play against her, she's a really aggressive player. You cannot be only passive. You have to stay with her.   
I just tried to be more aggressive, but not aggressive than her, but just try to be my aggressive way. For me, this match is a really aggressive match. She is play more winner than me, but that's the way she plays.   
I think she miss a lot today. I think that's the point.   
 Q.  And the second set?  
WANG QIANG: Second set, you know, against big player, you always want you win this match. Is coming, so you little bit shaky. Like second set, 5-3 I think, yes, my serve game is a little bit shaky. I can't believe I can win the first set and second set I fight 5-4 on my serve.   
After that, I'm fight with myself, just concentrate on the court, just try my best.   
 Q.  You talked about having the self-belief, your team support to pull you through. Talk more about that, whether you've been working with somebody mentally on that self-belief?  
WANG QIANG: In off-season we do, like, three hours tennis in a row. I think it's really help me to be stronger on the court, mentally tough on the court.   
I think just my coach, Thomas, he always said, I believe 200% in you, so you must believe in yourself.   
 Q.  There is a tribute evening tonight for Peter McNamara. Can you talk about his influence on your career. It is amazing this all happened on the same day.  
WANG QIANG: Yes, I always dream about him. I think he can see what I play today. He will proud of me. I really hope he can be here watch I play.   
Yes, I miss him.   
 Q.  How important was Li Na for you to see that a Chinese player was able to win slams? Do you know her personally? Has she ever said something to you to encourage you or not?  
WANG QIANG: No.   
 Q.  Nothing?  
WANG QIANG: Well, we don't have like Wechat, no nothing. We meet each other. C'mon fight, let's go, something like that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT