WUHAN OPEN
September 27, 2018
Wang Qiang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
WANG QIANG/M. Puig   
6-3, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  You are the first Chinese into the Wuhan Open semifinals.  Are you aware of how important that is for the event here, the organization, and the local fans?  
WANG QIANG: (Translated from Chinese.)  I'm not sure the significance to everyone.  I'm just trying to do my best and put up my best performance.   
 Q.  Can you talk through today's match a little bit.  What were the things that you did well that allowed you to win?  How did you deal with the pressure of playing this match?  
WANG QIANG: (Translated from Chinese.)  Well, after 4-0, I adjusted to the tempo.  But she played very aggressively.  My coach told me, Do not stand too behind the baseline because that would put me in the passive and disadvantaged position, and she will be even more aggressive.   
I tried to play more returns, because her strategy also on the other hand would have greater errors, so I'm trying to do my best.   
 Q.  When you went to the line to close out the match, the nerves were okay?  Did you feel a little bit nervous or anything like that, the pressure?  
WANG QIANG: (Translated from Chinese.)  Well, today's win makes me very, very happy.  This is the first time that I entered the semifinals at a Premier 5, so I'm really happy today.   
 Q.  You've only lost one match in China this year.  I know you like to play in China.  Is it really just about being able to eat Chinese food or is there something else?  
WANG QIANG: (Translated from Chinese.)  Yes, because for the whole year I'm trying to search for Chinese food wherever I'm playing the game.  I think, yes, Chinese food is the most important thing (smiling).   
 Q.  Which area outside of China has the best Chinese food?  
WANG QIANG: (Translated from Chinese.)  Melbourne, New York, yeah, they have great Chinese food there.   
 Q.  What has your coach contributed to your game this season?  What has he improved?  
WANG QIANG: (Translated from Chinese.)  I think confidence.  Well, actually there are many things that I have improved, but I have been accumulating in the past.  He taught me how I should play the match, how I should deal with each and every point.  Maybe sometimes I didn't get what he was teaching me, but now I fully understand and can deliver what he taught me.   
 Q.  How much do you know about Kontaveit and Siniakova?  What do you think you need to do to win that match?  
WANG QIANG: (Translated from Chinese.)  I have never played against them before, but I have trained with both of them.  They both play very aggressively.  I think I should focus on myself, whether serving or returning.  I should do a better job.  If I have a chance in rallies, I should play more aggressively.   
 Q.  When you travel outside of China, all over the world, is there a lot of culture shock for you?  How do you adjust to that?  
WANG QIANG: (Translated from Chinese.)  Not very much.  When I was playing outside China, I didn't have a chance to really travel outside because it's stop after stop.  Food is a big thing because I have yet to adjust to foreign food, so I still love Chinese food.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.   
 Q.  For the second half of this year, you did well on court.  You also did well in your romance.  Does that help to improve your results on court?  After you have won a match, did you share your happiness with your boyfriend?  
WANG QIANG: Let's talk about tennis.   
 Q.  You're ranked second in Asia, next to Naomi Osaka.  How do you see her championship at the US Open?  
WANG QIANG: I think she's a great player.  I had played against her once, and I felt she will become a great player.  She played a great game.  She is really offensive.  Well, she's very good already, and she will be greater in the future.   
 Q.  This is the third stop that you made it to the semifinals.  Today's match looked easy, but perhaps the process was not that easy, right?  How was it that you won, especially during the second set?  
WANG QIANG: I don't dare to think about a sure win, especially at the WTA matches.  I don't think I had a sure win because I played silly mistakes.  I'm just focusing point by point now.  Before the end of the match, I wouldn't think it was a sure win.   
 Q.  You have played against many players in the circuit, players that had a very aggressive style.  Which type of player do you prefer to play against, the more aggressive kind or the one with more rallies?  
WANG QIANG: Can I say I like neither type (smiling)?   
You need to prepare differently for different types of players.  For any kind of opponent, whatever her style, you need to prepare yourself.  Whatever style the opponent has is not important, you have to win yourself.   
 Q.  We have calculated in China you had a record of 17 wins, two losses.  Other than the food, any other factors that contributed to your success?  
WANG QIANG: Food is most important.  As long as you can recover with great diet, you can play well.  I think that's important to an athlete.   
 Q.  Just now you mentioned during the match that you wouldn't think about a sure win, and you kept focusing on the match.  Can we talk about the first set after you won 4-0, how did you feel then?  Psychologically how did you adjust?  
WANG QIANG: Well, after 4-0, she played more aggressively, made fewer errors.  For me, I played less offensively.  Actually, I couldn't have a lot of advantages against her.  If I play less offensively, then I will be even more passive, I would be in a worse situation.   
My coach told me that, You shouldn't play too passively, you shouldn't stand too far behind the baseline.  I adjusted my position and tried to be more offensive and less passive.   
 Q.  Off court on social media, on Weibo and Douyin, you have accounts.  How do you balance your entertainment on social media and your professional career?  Many tennis players would like to show their latest updates on social media.  How do you see this trend?  
WANG QIANG: Well, when you play well, the comments will be positive.  But when you are not playing well, there will be not so many people criticizing you on the other hand.  So you can't train and play tennis 24 hours a day, so you need to have your private life.   
When I was not having a great form, perhaps surfing social media can help to kill time, to kill the entertainment time.  On streaming social media Douyin, I like the funny videos.  The videos help me to relax and make me happy.   
 Q.  For the entire season what was the most impressive match?  
WANG QIANG: Against Williams, Venus Williams.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT