WUHAN OPEN
September 26, 2018
Wang Qiang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
WANG QIANG/D. Gavrilova   
7-5, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  How do you feel to be the first Chinese in the quarterfinals?  
WANG QIANG: (Translated from Chinese.)  Really happy to give this great performance in Wuhan.  I hope I can do better in the next.   
 Q.  Yesterday in the win over Pliskova, can you talk about how much that win means to you?  What do you think it means about your career right now?  
WANG QIANG: (Translated from Chinese.)  Well, it was a great match, a great performance.  To me, I am more confident, I have more confidence in myself on court.   
In the future I would work towards that goal:  to do better, to be a better self.   
 Q.  You have an Australian coach, Peter McNamara.  How important has he been for your results this year?  What has he taught you?  
WANG QIANG: (Translated from Chinese.)  Well, he's really happy, especially in the second half of this year, that I can do this well with great performances.  Well, first half of this year I wasn't doing really well, and he is looking at next year.   
But he is very surprised that I'm doing well in the second half.   
 Q.  You did very well this year in China.  Do you like playing at home?  What extra does it give you to play at home?  
WANG QIANG: (Translated from Chinese.)  Yes, I'm really happy to be competing in China, getting a lot of support from fans.  Also I love Chinese food, this is really important to me (smiling).   
 Q.  You also won the gold medal at the Asian Games earlier this year.  Do you think that time, that win, also maybe gave you a lot of energy, motivation and confidence for what you've done in Hiroshima, Guangzhou and now here?  
WANG QIANG: (Translated from Chinese.)  Well, being in the Asian Games, I felt more pressure because I'm competing for the country.  I have to do my best for each point.  I'm not representing myself only, I'm representing the government, my country.   
But here I feel more at ease.  I can be more like myself.   
 Q.  What do you think has been the most improvement, or where has your game improved the most since the beginning of year compared to now?  
WANG QIANG: (Translated from Chinese.)  Confidence level.  In terms of technique, in the past year I think I've been doing quite similar, but I'm really more confident.  I believe in myself.  That's the most important element.   
 Q.  How important was Li Na for your career, what she achieved?  
WANG QIANG: (Translated from Chinese.)  She is a goal.  She's a role model for many athletes, especially Chinese players.  If I can play as well as she did, I will have a very perfect life.   
 Q.  Can you talk a little bit about the current state of Chinese women's tennis.  There's not just you, there's also Zhang Shuai, and Wang Xiyu played well yesterday.  Do you feel like there are more players from China ready to make an impact on the tour?  
WANG QIANG: (Translated from Chinese.)  Well, after the emergence of Li Na, I think we are on the rise.  You see young players.  At this level of tournament, we see great performances.  We have many opportunities to win matches.   
I think in the near future, in international tournaments, we'll see more Chinese players.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.   
 Q.  Many athletes have said in the Asian swing, they are not feeling comfortable physically.  Have you encountered the same situation?  Do you feel the same after the Asian Games?  You've been competing consecutively.  
WANG QIANG: Yeah, I feel the same.  In the second set of yesterday, I felt discomfort in my thigh.  Well, today it didn't worsen.   
 Q.  After the first round, you said your mentality is that you're not thinking much.  Now in this round, are you in the same mindset?  
WANG QIANG: Yes, the same.   
 Q.  Your match with Pliskova, the third set, the longest game, she was dominating that game.  Very long rallies, long points.  You were fighting for each point.  What actually motivated you to stay in that game?  
WANG QIANG: Well, on court you don't really think too much.  You just want to grab each point.  Well, you wouldn't even think too much within a game.  You just want to do your best.   
 Q.  Any comments on the fans in Wuhan?  You can feel the passion of Wuhan fans.  There's a lot of support from them.  Any words to them?  
WANG QIANG: A big thank you to all the fans, especially after the mid autumn festival.  They're working during the day, but they're coming here for the matches.  Even when I'm low, they are always supporting me.   
I think this is why I'm here, this is what is motivating me in my career.   
 Q.  Several victories against top-10 players in this season.  When you are playing against those top-ranked players, any differences in your mindset as well as your technique and strategy?  
WANG QIANG: Well, I don't think too much about it.  I only regard them as a regular opponent with an easy mindset.  Before a match, if you think too much, if you think too much about they're a top-ranked players, you will put too much pressure on yourself.   
 Q.  After so many matches, you must feel tired.  Any way to release pressure?  
WANG QIANG: Treatment, massages, nothing special.  When you are physically tired, you have to relax.  But there's nothing you can do.  You just have to hold on because there are matches every day.   
 Q.  Last year in Wuhan you made it to the top 16.  This year you advanced to the top eight.  This is a place of luck.  Any special meaning to you?  
WANG QIANG: When I was very little, I trained in Wuhan.  I always felt that coming to Wuhan is like coming back home because I have grown up here.  Every year I competed in Wuhan in the ITF circuit or WTA events.   
I'm really happy in Wuhan, in a Premier 5 event, that I can do so well.  I will try to do better to provide a better performance for the audience.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT