WUHAN OPEN
September 25, 2019
Wang Qiang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. RISKE/Wang Qiang
6-2, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.
Q. Talk about the match today. In the second set, you almost wanted to smash your racquet.
WANG QIANG: I think at every point I wanted to smash my racquet. Her style of play doesn't really suit me. It seems like my style suits her.
Q. In what ways, details?
WANG QIANG: I mean, all details. I don't think my return made her very uncomfortable. She can return in a very high quality way. But her return made me really uncomfortable.
Q. In the French Open when you lost, you talked about you couldn't find your level of play in the Asian swing last year. Did you feel like you raised your level in Wuhan?
WANG QIANG: Well, I'm feeling better, much better than the French Open this year. Everything is improving.
Q. In the French Open you started your collaboration with a new coach. You mentioned you were not familiar with that new coaching situation. What is your comment now? Has it been of any help in any way?
WANG QIANG: I think he's a very, very positive person. He always encourages me, even when I'm in a very bad state, also regarding my different perspectives, different levels, trying to think of ways to improve my style of game.
Q. Last year in the Asian swing, you had good results. Right before the Asian swing you had a good result in the US Open. You are receiving more attention. Do you also feel more pressure to defend your points here?
WANG QIANG: Well, I haven't been on the Internet too much. I'm not so sure whether I received much attention.
I've been trying to raise my game as fast as possible, like what I did in the second half of last year, to raise my confidence.
Q. You mentioned you haven't been on the Internet much. Why? Did you want to block out the pressure of social media?
WANG QIANG: Well, I'm not such a strong person inside to face things, like random things. If one day I can face these things, I will face them.
Q. Several tournaments left. What is your goal?
WANG QIANG: To raise my game as soon as possible.
Q. About defending your points, what is your strategy?
WANG QIANG: Don't ask me questions about points because my team is trying to avoid this question, to actually have me worry about how many points I won last year.
I just want to stay positive. As a matter of fact, I was injured two times this year, and my game hasn't been ideal. I rested, then I played matches, then I rested again. I hope I can raise my game. That's the goal.
Q. When you were in the top 16, fans were excited, asking for autographs. In the Wuhan Open, in terms of security compared to other tournaments, do you see any differences, any comments on the security effort in the Wuhan Open?
WANG QIANG: Well, I'm pretty safe. I'm sitting here. I feel safe.
Q. Any comments on the Wuhan Open?
WANG QIANG: Well, it's great. It's getting better. Security-wise, I think it's good. Everything is good.
Q. I need the words.
WANG QIANG: Yes, yes, it's good.
Q. You mentioned the level of confidence several times. You talked about raising your level, raising your form. Which one is your priority, confidence or level of form?
WANG QIANG: Well, these two come together. When you raise your game, you'll be more confident. These two tie into each other.
Q. Then you need to win, right?
WANG QIANG: Yes, more matches, more wins. It's a chicken-and-egg question.
Q. You also mentioned you were not a strong person inside to face all the outside factors. Have you sought advice from other people, senior athletes, experts, professionals?
WANG QIANG: Well, I'm not reading that stuff, so no impact on me.
Q. But you have to face them. Athletes need professional advice.
WANG QIANG: Well, I don't want to pretend to be strong. I can't do that.
Q. In the Wimbledon finals, Djokovic mentioned he would replay the match again and again in his mind to build up mental capacity. Have you ever done that?
WANG QIANG: Well, I would focus on my matches. I don't want to torture myself with the things off court. I just want to be happy, ignore those things, just be happy. That's the most important thing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT