HENGQIN LIFE WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
October 29, 2018
Wang Qiang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. First of all, I would like to say actually you came into this high profile competition due to your ranking instead of getting a wildcard.  To get into such a high profile, local competition, what's your view on that?
WANG QIANG: I think actually based on my performance during the first half of the year, I didn't really expect that I would actually be qualified to get into this competition thanks to my ranking.
When I noticed that I could get into this competition, I was very happy about that, especially when I could get such a high profile trophy.
Q. We have seen that you have actually joined this year-end competition and we could see that actually we would claim that you have been part of the group of women's tennis elite players.  During the Asian season, you have performed very well and maybe in the past you didn't have enough time to ponder on why you would perform so well.  Right now, do you have anything you'd like to say based on your successful experience?  Have you learned something?
WANG QIANG: I think the most important part is the confidence, the self-confidence, which is something I always focus on.  You could see that during my first half of the performance on the court that I wasn't very confident, but later on, I performed very differently, including all kind of tactics against the baseline performance and so on.
I think I gained more confidence and also I have more experience and I've learned quite a lot based on my confidence and accumulation based on my past experience.
Q. Well, we have seen the result of your draw, so what's your take on your future competitions?
WANG QIANG: Well, I think that all the rivals at this level are all performing very well.  They are all top-20 players.  I'm actually ranked the lowest on the ranking compared to them.  So I can say they're all strong competitors.
However, I would focus more on each single game, game by game, point by point. I think up until this moment what matters to me is not the result, but more the process.
Q. Actually we would see that you have shown your outstanding performance during 2018, which helps you to gain a lot of fans from both home and abroad.  I've also noticed that online, there are people on the Internet saying that you have very strong power and speed in terms of your baseline techniques.  If would like to work towards the top 10 or top 5 of the world, which part do you think you can improve further?
WANG QIANG: First of all, currently I've done pretty well in terms of the passing of the baseline, but I would like to focus to improve more on my attacking techniques, also I should be more decisive when I have an opportunity.  Also my net techniques should be improved as well, along with the service and receiving techniques.
Q. Did you have any specific targets in terms of the final competition in Shenzhen?
WANG QIANG: Yes, that's exactly where I am aiming at.  I am hoping I can get into the Shenzhen final competition.
Q. So actually we've seen that you actually beat over quite a lot of players, including the one in Hong Kong where you beat the champion of the final in Singapore, who is Svitolina, that's why people used to say that everyone gets a chance to win a championship.  You used to mention that your goal was to win a trophy on a Grand Slam.  But I think based on your current performance, this is far from the expectation from your fans.  Do you have any other ambitions or specific goals?
WANG QIANG: Absolutely I have my ambition, but I don't think I need to tell everybody all over the world about my ambition.
I do think that my focus most importantly is to win my first Grand Slam.  Of course, next year, I hope I can win the final at Shenzhen station.
Q. We've seen that Goerges last time during the last competition last year mentioned that after she got a trophy here, the Australian Open could start right after that during the week so she could perform better with this outstanding performance.  Would you be concerned that, actually based on your very high level currently, after some certain break and rest after the competition you wouldn't perform so well next year?
WANG QIANG: Actually, I am concerned.  I hope I that I could actually do very well to continue my momentum compared to the last one to two months.  But  after this break for one to two week in between, I am a little bit concerned for 2019.
But I do hope I can keep this very relaxed status.  All I can do is focus on myself and do the best I can.
Q. We've seen that you have signed a contract with Gemdale for over two years.  What kind of help and support have they given to you?
WANG QIANG: I think they have done all they can to support me.  They have been continuously encouraging me based on my performance, be it good or bad, especially during the first half of this year.  I think they gave me quite massive support and also they gave me quite strong support during my winner training, so I really appreciate their support.
Q. We have seen that you have gone through a very intensive Asian season and you probably would be very fatigued, but you also mentioned that these experiences would also boost your confidence.  Do you think there's any strength, mental strength, that can help with your performance in the games?
WANG QIANG: Well, lately I have been reading a book.  What I have learned from the book is that I think the physical response is not something that can really help you, but most importantly is your mental strength that can help you go through further.
I think it's more about your inner strength and your mental strength that can help you go further instead of just based on your physical performance.
Q. What's your impression on Zhuhai as a city?
WANG QIANG: Actually, it's not my first time to be here.  Last time was a few years ago, I don't remember which year specifically.  I remember because I was coming here to compete in an ITF competition.
To be honest, even though I've been here before, I didn't have the opportunity to go out and see and explore the city, but I've heard it's a great city.  I hope this time I get the opportunity to go around the city and see the beauty of Zhuhai.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT