CHINA OPEN
October 2, 2018
Wang Qiang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








WANG QIANG/J. Ostapenko
6-0, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.
Q. As a professional player, when you have a 10 games consecutively, do you think you should actually be respectful to your opponent and let her win one game?
WANG QIANG: Well, I don't really want to make any uncautious decisions because at any point there might be a comeback, a turnaround.  When you are fighting for each point, that's a respect to your opponent, too.
Q. After Wuhan, you also posted some pictures of your injury.  What is your physical condition now?  How do you prepare for the next round?
WANG QIANG: After Wuhan, I've been resting.  I haven't done anything else.  Just recovering, trying to do my best.
Yesterday, my physio asked me to run a few meters, then I had to stop.  So before the match today, I wasn't really sure I could play today.  I was really hesitating, to be honest.
I did not move that much, didn't run that much.  Well, tomorrow I will try to recover, to reassess my physical condition.  Definitely not 100% well.
Q. In the Asian Games, you won the title again.  Before the Asian Games you had a very intense training.  How did that play a role in your performance this year?
WANG QIANG: It was really helpful because the national team assigned coaches and trainers with me, have been helping me during this period.  Especially for me, the level of confidence, because more practice you gain more confidence in your level of play.
In terms of my tactics, the more practice, the more you run, on the court you will actually feel you are confident in your level of play.  There's no doubt in your own ability.  That is very helpful.
Q. This year we had the Asian Games.  Next season there's no Asian Games.  Anything you can learn from this year?  You had some extra help from the national team.  Next year when you don't have the Games, how do you adapt yourself to practice and matches?
WANG QIANG: Well, I think if I really need it, the national team will help me if I made the request.  How do I put it?  More practice, more practice.  Within my capability, more practice the better.
Q. In the second set when you had the lead 4-0, there were some swings with your condition.  Was it physical or mental?
WANG QIANG: When I had the lead at 4-Love, she slowed down a bit.  I wasn't really practicing these last few days.  I wasn't able to adapt to the pace.  When she slowed down, I really couldn't adjust to that speed.  I was feeling uncomfortable with the speed.  I felt discomfort on court because of that.
Q. For tennis players, double bagels is something not really common in matches.  You did that before.  When you double bageled in the past, compared to the match today, how did it feel different?
WANG QIANG: Well, I think it was a gift from her.  She gave them to me.  I did not do anything exceptional.  She just gave too many errors, double-faults.  I think she is struggling with injuries, too.
Q. You have a really good coach.  He has coached many top-10 players.  Do you feel a sign of relief because you are becoming a good student of his?  Are you going to continue the partnership next year?
WANG QIANG: Well, he has always told me he is proud of me.  I'm not so sure if he's saying it from the bottom of his heart.  But after working together I felt it was really helpful.  I'm confident we'll work together in the future.
Q. You had a really good performance in the Asian swing, and are among the top 30.  Any specific goal?  Top 10?  Australian Open?
WANG QIANG: Nope, I don't have goals.  Well, the first half of the year I had some goals for my ranking this year.  But after falling in the ranking in the first half of the year, I did not think about my ranking in the tournaments in the second half of this year.
My coach is talking about any tournaments, plans for next year, so I'm really relaxed for the second half of this year.  Now I'm doing well.  This is kind of a surprise for all of us.  I believe at this stage when I'm relaxed, I can do better.  I do not want to focus on ranking or victories, I just want to be relaxed and enjoy the matches here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT