WUHAN OPEN
September 28, 2018
Wang Qiang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. KONTAVEIT/Wang Qiang   
6-2, 2-1 (ret.)   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.   
 Q.  Can you please describe how you felt during the injury, and now how do you feel?  
WANG QIANG: When I was playing the second match, I injured my right leg at the beginning.  For the third day, my left leg didn't feel very good.  This is the first time that I experienced this.  More or less my body didn't feel well.   
Before I played today's match, I made preparations for both my legs.  When I was doing the stretching, when I was running, despite all the bandages, my legs still felt very painful.   
It's a pity that I couldn't finish the match.  My coach was talking to me about this.  I think I need to rest for a few days.  Luckily I don't have to play the first round, so I can rest for a few days.  I will wait and see.   
 Q.  During the last few games, you couldn't even run, but you still stayed till the end.  What was going on in your mind?  
WANG QIANG: Well, actually I wanted to hold on game after game, perhaps hoping for a miracle.  My physical body couldn't give me any miracle.  It's a pity that I couldn't hold on.   
 Q.  I'm a little journalist for the Wuhan Open.  I want to ask you, you have finished your goal for the Wuhan Open, so what is your plan for the future?  
WANG QIANG: Well, my current thoughts are to allow my body to recover.  I hope I can play all the things I have prepared in the training and do my best on court.   
Regarding the results, I don't have very high expectations.  I think I need to adjust my physical form first.   
 Q.  The draw for the China Open was released this afternoon.  You don't have to play the first round, but the next round you might have to play with Ostapenko, the French Open champion.  She has a similar style to Kontaveit in the sense they're both playing aggressively.  What is your plan?  
WANG QIANG: Well, my plan is to recover my body.  I don't have any other plans about how to play the match.  To get recovered is the plan.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT