NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
January 23, 2009
Carey Price
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   CAREY PRICE: There's no way you're going to stop them. There's too much talent, too much skills. All you can do as a goalie is throw your hands up in the air and hopefully a few will hit you. 

 Q. (Indiscernible). 
 CAREY PRICE: I'm going to be there in just the All-Star Game. I'm trying to talk to the guys and trying to get them into the accurate shooting. 

 Q. Did you at all think about not playing here? 
 CAREY PRICE: I didn't want to. I didn't want to miss this. This was one thing that I really wanted to do the whole year. When I got hurt, and I thought about missing this game, it was important to me. 

 Q. If it wasn't Montreal, would you still be here? 
 CAREY PRICE: If I'm healthy, I'm going to play. This is one of my favorite events growing up as a kid. And just having the honor to be here on the ice with the players. 

 Q. Did you and Guy have a conversation about your health and everything? And a little while ago he said he didn't want you to play in the Skills Competition. Did you talk about that? How did you iron that out? 
 CAREY PRICE: He approached me and said that it would probably be a little better to play in like a game situation. So I'd have to agree with that. You go into a cold situation, the three-on, and breakaways are kind of tough.

 Q. Yeah, they're trying their best moves. It's probably going to take the best from you to come back from it. 
 CAREY PRICE: Exactly. And when you're sitting around on the ice, it's not always easy. 

 Q. When you were young and dreaming about your first All-Star Game appearance, did you think it was just like this? 
 CAREY PRICE: You know what, it really hasn't hit me yet. It just kind of hit me right now with all these cameras going off in my face. 
 You know, you know how I am, I always take things in stride no matter what it is, whether it's good or bad. 

 Q. I remember you told me once that Alexander Ovechkin is the player that you're most scared of. He's going to be part of your team. 
 CAREY PRICE: Thank God! Thank God. Yeah. I'm really, I'm not looking forward to taking his shots in practice, though. 

 Q. The open nature of the game, is there any chance you'll get upset at some point with your team? 
 CAREY PRICE: I'm going to be mic'd up, so I better kind of keep it kind of down low. So, yeah, you know, they're going to score goals. It's going to happen. I've watched All-Star Games before. 16-12 games, I don't care. 

 Q. I have two sons that are goalies, so they watch pretty much every move you make. I'm looking for like a hockey story, a hockey game that you remember maybe when you were a kid, or even as an adult, one that stands out in your mind. Doesn't have to be when you were a professional. 
 CAREY PRICE: One that I played in or watched? 

 Q. Or that you watched, something that maybe made you love the game or just set in your memory as a special memory? 
 CAREY PRICE: Well, I don't remember one particular game. But I always remember watching Dallas and Edmonton play. That would have been about ten years ago. It seems like they played each other in the playoffs every year. I don't know. I just loved watching those two teams play each other. Really got me into it. 

 Q. When you started to do this, did you always want to be a goalie? 
 CAREY PRICE: I played as a defenseman. I started as a goalie a little bit, and then I played "D". I really enjoyed scoring goals. I was a pretty big shot when I was a little kid. 

 Q. Like how old? 
 CAREY PRICE: Probably 8 or 9. Then I switched to goalie, and I liked it and I've been there ever since. 

 Q. Who was your favorite player when you were a kid? 
 CAREY PRICE: My favorite player when I was a kid? I liked a lot of them. I really liked goalies. 
 I liked Curtis Joseph, I liked Marty Brodeur. I really liked Patty and all the guys who, you know, were very big then. Marty's still big. Yeah, I really enjoyed watching them. I always liked to watch the rock 'em sock 'em videos and pretending I was them.

 Q. How do you think your parents -- I think that you are not going to the rink in a car like other players when you were young, is that right? 
 CAREY PRICE: That's right. They made a really big sacrifice for me. When I was a young kid, they used to fly to hockey practice. You know, I'd get out of school, and me and my dad would jump in the airplane and fly an hour to take me to hockey practice. 
 Most young players only have to go maybe 15 minutes from one city to the other. And me and my dad had to fly for an hour to get to my minor hockey practices. And I think, looking back on it, I'm really appreciative of what he did for me.

 Q. Can you give your thoughts about playing in your first NHL All-Star Game in your city after? Being scared a little bit of not being there? 
 CAREY PRICE: I'm really excited. Having the fans behind me, you know, pushing me into that number one spot. I'm really -- I really appreciate the fans, what they did for me. You know, they really beared down when the voting was pretty close, and got me to where I am now. 

 Q. What about the medical staff who did that for you, too, just for you to be ready for that game? 
 CAREY PRICE: I've bought them a few lunches over the past couple of weeks. So I think we might be a little bit even on that. 
 I don't think I've ever seen so many cameras in one place. I don't normally get nervous in front of the media, but this is something like something else. 

 Q. Is this beyond your expectation? 
 CAREY PRICE: I had no idea what to expect. 

 Q. Here in the next couple of minutes we'll be on the ice, how do you feel about that? 
 CAREY PRICE: No, there's no, there's nothing on the line, so, I mean, there's nothing on the line. You can't really take it that seriously. It's all for fun, it's all for show. It's entertainment. 

 Q. To be a hometown player, what do you think? 
 CAREY PRICE: I think it makes it a lot more fun. Having the whole crowd behind you. They're going to be behind all the players anyway, but they're going to give us a little extra cheer, I think. 

 Q. Is it all worth it, playing in Montreal? Knowing that you can't take a day off without people saying that you're in rehab or whatever? 
 CAREY PRICE: You know, it's something I've gotten used to over the past year and a half. It's a really fun city to play in and I don't really pay much attention to what's going on around. I just worry about what I do on the ice. 

 Q. Would you say that a person or a player has to know himself and know he can handle it? 
 CAREY PRICE: Yeah, you have to do your own soul-searching. Some players just aren't cut out for it, some players are. I'm fortunate enough to have the attitude to try not to let things bother me. And other people know that sometimes it's tough. But it's also the greatest city to play in.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT