NHL ENTRY DRAFT
July 30, 2005
Carey Price
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  You were the top-ranked goalie in the draft.  Did you expect to go as high as 5?  Can you talk about what it's like to go to a franchise like Montreal? 
 CAREY PRICE:  Well, I wasn't really expecting to go this high, but I'll take it (laughter). 
 I'm really looking forward to going to Montreal.  I mean, it's a well-respected franchise.  I mean, they have a great, rich history in winning.  To follow the legacy of goaltenders that have been there, it's a real honor. 
 Q.  Could you tell me who your favorite goalies were growing up?  I'm wondering if there were any former Canadiens goalies. 
 CAREY PRICE:  Yeah, there was.  Growing up, you watch guys like Patrick Roy, Brodeur, all French Canadians.  I'm looking forward to hopefully following those guys up. 
 Q.  What do you think it will be like playing, Montreal is a big hockey city, a lot of attention, pressure, how are you going to deal with that? 
 CAREY PRICE:  It's something you have to deal with no matter where you're going.  It is the next step.  I knew that coming into the draft "If Montreal picks me, I've got to live up to my expectations." 
 I'm just looking forward to doing so. 
 Q.  So you will be playing for the big team.  I'd like to know what kind of pressure you feel under at this point? 
 CAREY PRICE:  Well, I don't -- I'm numb right now.  I don't feel any pressure (laughter).  But I am looking forward to working with this organization.  When I heard I was getting drafted by Montreal, I was very excited. 
 Q.  Obviously you talked to the Canadiens beforehand.  Did you have any indication they were going to draft you today? 
 CAREY PRICE:  I only talked to them at the Toronto Combine.  I didn't really have that much contact with Montreal.  I didn't really have any indication to where I was going at all.  But I'm glad it turned out this way. 
 Q.  Were you surprised? 
 CAREY PRICE:  A little bit. 
 Q.  The NHL just changed rules regarding goaltenders.  How do you think that may affect you in the next two or three years as you attempt to come into the league? 
 CAREY PRICE:  It will be a change, yes.  But I think all goaltenders will adapt.  I mean, they've adapted to all the changes before.  It will make a difference over the first year, but after that it will be back to normal.  I don't think it will affect my game much. 
 Q.  Did anyone in the organization explain to you why they picked you, what they liked about you, what their plans were? 
 CAREY PRICE:  As of yet, not really.  I haven't had a chance to talk to them.  I'm sure they will over tonight's dinner. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT