INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY QWEST
August 3, 2000
Mike Brisky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MIKE BRISKY:  I hit it okay.  I didn't hit it very good actually, but I hit my greens and never got myself in trouble, so -- except for the last hole.  I hit it in the water off the tee.  Swing was a little loose; got some things working this afternoon.  I am very, very pleased with plus-10.  That is my best start ever here.  Best round ever.  So maybe this will keep me coming back now. Six birdies, two bogeys.  I hit it close, except for the bombs on the two par 5s on the back nine.  Remind me of the holes, 14? 
 
MIKE BRISKY:  13, I had the lay-up short of the creek, and I had kind of played a safety 8-iron right of the hole about 35 feet; made it.  Then on 17, I kind of fatted the 4-iron short of the bunker, the front bunker, which I had nothing  to work with there.  And I just took my medicine, hit it 20 feet by, and ended up making it -- downhill putt.  Those were my -- otherwise, I hit all the other ones close.  14 is the one I made the bomb.  13, I hit wedge five feet.  1, hit 3-wood right in front of the green, then chipped it to about two and a half, three feet, call it a 3-footer.  Then the par 3, almost holed it there. I hit it four feet behind the hole there.  I hit 5-iron there.  8, hit 3-wood just left of the green, pin-high there, and just putted it up to probably eight feet; made that. 
 

Q.  Did you hit it in the water at 9?
 
MIKE BRISKY:  Right water with a 3-wood, and took my drop.  Hit it on the green and 2-putted. 
 

Q.  Your other bogey?
 
MIKE BRISKY:  16, I hit a -- theme of the day  -- a fat 5-iron short of the green, and then ended up missing a 6-footer for par there.  So that one kind of got away.  But like I said, overall I am pleased with the outcome, not pleased with the process; but, you  know, 6 birdies, it is hard to to be displeased about that.  Like I said, I hit some close ones, made a couple of bombs.  I have something to look forward to tomorrow, because I feel I can hit it a little better, and hopefully the play will keep going. 
 

Q.  What do you think of the format?  I think you were saying, I guess -- I guess you have not had tremendous success with the format, or you are not comfortable with it?  What are your thoughts about it?
 
MIKE BRISKY:  You look at my birdie percentage, and it is in the 3s somewhere, so I guess the highs are -- or in the 4s.  But a format like this just doesn't favor me because I don't really make a whole lot of birdies.  My game is more consistent bogey-free rounds and -- maybe one or two bogeys at the most per round.  So look at consistency over the span of four days rather than taking it deep each day or making 7, 8 birdies out there.  But you know, you hit it solid out here, and the course is playing kind of fast, and the greens are rolling very well, anyone can get it going out there, making 7 birdies is not easy.  But you know, you can get some birdies out there.  It never has fit into my game in that sense.  That is why I am -- this is my third time here, I think, in seven years, so.... 
 

Q.  Why did you come?
 
MIKE BRISKY:  Well, because I haven't been here in a while, and just trying to keep the faith and, you know, give some -- lend some support to the tournament, not that they necessarily need me here. But I got to pay my dues each tournament, and so that is why I am here. 
 

Q.  Did you change your strategy, or did the birdies just kind of happen?
 
MIKE BRISKY:  They just kind of happened.  I think on any given shot -- for instance, No. 2 I had 109 yards to the pin and like 104 to carry the front edge of the green, and my max on a sand wedge is like 105.  So I was between sand wedge, pitching wedge. And it is like the -- you can kind of be more aggressive there because of the format.  A bogey is not -- bogey is only going to give you minus-one; whereas, I hit a good shot, I hit it solid, I am going to get a plus-two there.  So that is kind of really where it makes a difference in your club selection or the aggressiveness takes place.  I ended up hitting sand wedge, hit it in the front bunker; got it  up-and-down.  But a good shot there.  I probably would have walked away with a plus-two and been a lot happier.  You get into a normal format, and I probably hit pitching wedge, hit it 105, maybe 15, 20 feet past the hole and take my chances. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT