THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 9, 2000
Mike Brisky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 MIKE BRISKY: No. 4 the par 5, sand wedge to about two feet. 5, the par 3, I hit 5-iron
there to about 18 feet. 6, drove it in the bunker, hit 5-iron to about 35 feet. 7, hit a
good drive, sand wedge to about three feet there. 8, hit 4-iron to 15 feet and then 9 I
just chipped up to about five feet, made that. Bogeyed 10, birdied 15, the par -- 16, the
par 5, hit a bad bunker shot, but made a 10-footer for birdie. Then 18 was my best hole of
the day, good drive, good 6-iron to about eight feet. Knocked it in. 
 
Q. It just kicked in on No. 4? 
 
 MIKE BRISKY: It just kicked in. I got no explanation. I have been struggling all year
with the putter and I don't understand why it started on No. 4. I am not going to question
it. I will take it and run with it as much as I can. Just happy I finally saw some fruit
from the labor I have put in. I didn't hit it any differently. In fact, I felt my swing
being a little loose today. It is not like I knocked the pins down on the front nine, but
I got the ball rolling on the greens. As long as I gave myself a chance, seemed like it
was going in on the front 9. 
 
Q. Has putting been the reason for the struggling?
 
 MIKE BRISKY: Yeah, I just haven't made anything. I hadn't been putting badly. I have
been rolling the ball well, just seems like I'd have to putt decent and hit the ball real
good just to make a cut and today it just really happened. Hopefully I can hit it decent
pretty good tomorrow - might not make as many putts tomorrow. As long as I hit a little
better, I will be in good shape. 
 
Q. Have you been searching -- have you changed anything, searched for something?
 
 MIKE BRISKY: No, my caddie and I have been working on it quite a bit this year.
Basically stuck -- I have been rolling it good. He just encourages me to stay with it and
keep on rolling the ball; they are going to fall. It is kind of disheartening, it is hard
to take when you are in the middle of -- like last week at Doral you are seeing guys go
way low; I am hitting it pretty decent and not getting anything out of it. You want to
tell yourself to hang in there and keep on going, but it is not happening. It is so
frustrating at times. I would like it to be a little bit more consistent, but I will take
it as they come. 
 
Q. When was the last time you were pleased with your putting?
 
 MIKE BRISKY: Phoenix I was pretty pleased; made the cut there; played solid. Again
rolled the ball again pretty good. I didn't feel like I made as much as I should have,
kind of finished in the middle of the field. I guess I can go back to Quad Cities last
year when I played my best and just hit it solid all week and made a lot of putts that
week. I'd have to go back to there. 
 
Q. Six in a row. Is that the most in a while?
 
 MIKE BRISKY: That is about the most I have had. I have had streaks of 5 where I have
been 6-under, but that is probably the most holes I have had in a row. 
 
Q. You were talking about rolling it good, but not making anything. Is patience the
biggest quality you have got to have out here to survive?
 
 MIKE BRISKY: To survive, yeah, it is patience. To play well it takes more than
patience, obviously got to get the ball in the hole. But yeah, it is trusting that you are
working it out and you keep on practicing and the results are going to come. Again my
caddy has been real good for me this year. Long time buddy of mine. He is a good player.
In fact, he made the cut in Tucson and I missed. So we had a little competition there. He
just kept on saying keep on working, keep on working and he said he doesn't see results
sometimes 10, 14 days after he has really put in a good practice, and it came today, so... 
 
Q. Who is your caddie?
 
 MIKE BRISKY: Jeff Williams. 
 
Q. At what point on the front did you just know, wow, I am really -- this is happening?
Was it 4, 5, 6?
 
 MIKE BRISKY: 9. (laughs). It wasn't -- I couldn't expect myself to make them because of
the history that I have had, so it is like -- let's just put another good roll on it, see
what happens, and a couple of putts I miss-hit just a little bit, but I got them on the
intended line and they were rolling halfway decently and they still went in. When you got
20-, 30-footers, you don't expect to make those all the time will. All you want to do is
put good rolls on them, give them a chance. By chance they were going in, and it wasn't
until No. 9 where I had a 5- or 6-footer, a little slider there, I thought, man, this
could be 6 in a row. I need to put a good stroke on it thinking well, if I was 20 feet, I
wouldn't be thinking it. I'd just want to roll the ball well, but at six feet you expect
yourself to make it. And fortunately put a good roll on it and it went in. The only putt I
hit bad really bad today was on 10. I missed like a 5-footer there for par. Other than
that, I was very pleased with rolling of the ball on the greens. The balls roll real well
out there, good greens. 
 
Q. How has the state of your game been in general leading up to this year?
 
 MIKE BRISKY: It has been very good. The early part of this year, minus Hawaii, I felt
like I have been in every tournament. I have often made the comment to some of my friends
if I wasn't missing the cut I'd sware I'd be finishing Top-20. I am close to winning. That
is how good it felt and here I am one for six coming into this tournament, it is like my
hands were in the air, what is going on here. I just got to trust in what I am doing and
trust that the Lord has taken me to a place and, you know, just keep going. 
 
Q. Much wind out there when you were playing?
 
 MIKE BRISKY: No, came up a little bit on the back 9, but it is relatively calm as the
wind blows here as you know. 
 
Q. Is there a feeling with the wind down out here that you need to play well? You need
to take advantage --
 
 MIKE BRISKY: Yeah, if you come out here with the intention of "I am going to win
this tournament," I would think coming into today, 7:15 tee time, okay, I need to
take advantage of this day and the wind going to be lying down, but there again, for me,
it was like, let's just try to get something started this week and hopefully I can
continue going and right now my object is not necessarily to win a tournament, but just to
feel good about what I am doing and make some putts. My son kind of gave me a goal to get
this week, I am not going to reveal yet. I am going to try to strive for that goal to make
as many birdies as I can and hopefully hit the mark that he set for me. 
 
Q. How old he is?
 
 MIKE BRISKY: He is five and a half. 
 
Q. What is his name?
 
 MIKE BRISKY: Jacob. 
 
Q. Is he here?
 
 MIKE BRISKY: Yes, he is. They are both here, both my sons and my wife. My wife's
birthday is today, so be giving her a nice present. 
 
Q. Did you see him after the round?
 
 MIKE BRISKY: They are in the nursery. 
 
Q. We can't pry?
 
 MIKE BRISKY: Don't want to disappoint myself. I am not giving it out. Maybe tomorrow. 
 
Q. You shot a couple, what was it, a couple years ago at the John Deere, you went 62,
62, 68?
 
 MIKE BRISKY: Last year I went 66, 62, 68, 65, I think it was. 
 
Q. After that 68 you weren't even in the lead, so, you know --
 
 MIKE BRISKY: Third round, yeah, I think one or two shot lead going into Saturday. Well,
I played so solid that day and I made two birdies no bogeys. That was one of my best
stretches of golf, went like 40 some odd holes without a bogey. Couldn't complain about it
really. I made a couple of putts that day and that is all I tried to do today. I made one
hiccup today and my game is to where I got to make the least amount of mistakes as I can
so I can get the most out of my game because I am not a power hitter. I am not one that
will knock pins down, so I really got to stay patient and make a lot of pars and hopefully
those putts will go like they did today. 
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT