SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 25, 2015
Smylie Kaufman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. In just your fifth PGA TOUR event, you are now a PGA TOUR winner.  What gave you the belief today that you could go so low and get it done?
SMYLIE KAUFMAN: I was just hitting it so good the last few days and just wanted to give myself a chance and post a number, and that's what it came down to.  I dodged a lot of bullets coming down the stretch with guys coming in, and really just thankful to get the W.
Q. What have the last few hours been like for you sitting around and waiting?
SMYLIE KAUFMAN: So much more stressful than on the course.  So much worse.  I felt like I was watching an LSU football game.
Q. What was it like having Patton there with you, one of your good buddies?
SMYLIE KAUFMAN: Really good.  He was keeping me calm, kind of cracking some jokes here and there.  He actually made it a lot easier on me watching the finale.
Q. You're headed to the Masters with that victory; what do you think about that?
SMYLIE KAUFMAN: I don't believe it.  I can't put it into words.
Q. We talked a few hours ago and it was wait time, but the wait is over; 2015 Shriners Hospitals For Children Open champion.  How does it feel?
SMYLIE KAUFMAN: It feels unbelievable.  A lot of hard work and dedication has gone into this, and I've had family and friends that have been supportive the whole way.  For me to have a group of people that believes in what I do, it just makes it that much easier and this moment that much more special.
Q. You're now, of course, a young gun who's won on the PGA TOUR.  That seems to be a theme here in the fall part of the season.
SMYLIE KAUFMAN: Yeah, Emiliano and I had dinner a couple nights last week, so I guess you need to eat with Emiliano and I to get to be a champion.
Q. Let's talk about the last hour, watching the guys come in with a chance to tie you, particularly the last two groups, Kevin Na and Brett Stegmaier.
SMYLIE KAUFMAN: Yeah, really nerve-racking.  I felt like I could lose the tournament, and also in the last 30 minutes I could sneak -- not avoid a playoff, but the hardest thing in the world to do is prepare for a playoff because all you want to do is watch the coverage but you need to be ready for the playoff.  I was ready to go out and try to make a birdie in the playoff if I had to, but it was a wild hour, and thankfully it's over.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT