SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 25, 2015
Smylie Kaufman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Smylie, have you ever played a better round of golf than today?  
SMYLIE KAUFMAN: I don't know.  It was one of those days that just -- I was playing really well this morning, was hitting it really good early and didn't get the putts to drop on the front nine but got a little momentum on 8 and 9.  8 is a tough hole and hit a good shot in there and holed a good putt.  Finally saw the ball disappear.  Pretty much after that I was off to the races, and it's funny, on 9, my caddie -- I asked him, I was like, who do you think is going to win this week?  He's like, well, I think there's more to be said.  I think you can post a number and you can see what happens.  He knew better than I did, and I did it, so we'll see.   
 Q.  Talk about the tee shot on 15.  
SMYLIE KAUFMAN: Oh, it was a perfect number, like just smoked a 3-wood.  It landed in the perfect spot, and I had a good read on it and hit a good putt.   
 Q.  18-over that putt, I guess you knew how important that putt was?  
SMYLIE KAUFMAN: I knew I needed one more.  I felt like I needed to birdie 17, as well, but I did all I could.  I knew that birdie was going to go a long way, and hopefully it does.   
 Q.  No matter how it ends up, you're going to remember that walk up 18; I saw you exhale a little bit, everybody cheering you on?  
SMYLIE KAUFMAN: Yeah, I felt pretty comfortable.  The atmosphere felt good.  I was in a rhythm.  I kind of expected to do it coming down the stretch.   
 Q.  Coming into today, did you have it in your mind that you were going to put up a great score like this?  
SMYLIE KAUFMAN: No, I just knew I was playing good.  You never know what's going to happen out here.  I just holed some putts on the back nine, and we'll just see.   
 Q.  What are the emotions like for you at this point?  You've got to feel pretty good.  
SMYLIE KAUFMAN: It's going to be a long wait.  You know, as the round went on, I knew that with birdies on the back nine you could really get it going.  I just really committed to each one because I knew that each one was going to be really important.   
 Q.  We heard a lot of guys talking yesterday about the course being really firm.  
SMYLIE KAUFMAN: Yeah, it was firm yesterday.   
 Q.  How about today?  
SMYLIE KAUFMAN: A little softer.  The sun wasn't out as much, a little overcast, so that made it a little more receptive for the most part.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT