THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2017
Smylie Kaufman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (No Microphone.)
SMYLIE KAUFMAN: All day just stayed in the fairway most of the day and never really was out of position, never really got crazy aggressive out there, just kind of plotted my way along.  The putter felt really good, which was nice.  Holed some nice putts to keep the round going, especially early.  Really excited with my game headed to the weekend.
Q. How tough was it with the wind somewhere link and the greens getting baked?
SMYLIE KAUFMAN: We had it easy -- I won't say easy -- but it was fine for the first, I would say 14 or so odd holes for me today.  So we had to take advantage of the morning and you could kind of start to feel it bake out there with the greens and just the wind kicking up, how difficult it's going to play this afternoon.
Q. Is your grandfather here today?
SMYLIE KAUFMAN: He's not here today.  He's back in Birmingham.
Q. How bad is it going to be this afternoon?
SMYLIE KAUFMAN: It's tough.  Some tricky wind positions coming down the stretch, 17 is going to be tough with that back pin and off the left, 18 straight off the left, it's just a lot of difficult golf shots out there and I thought the par-5s didn't play very easy either.  Maybe I should have said I played them even.  If I played the par-5s decent today it could have been a real low one.
Q. If you were teeing off right now what would be a good score for you?
SMYLIE KAUFMAN: I would take even par.  Anything around even par.  If you can just keep fighting around even par.  It's going to be real tough to keep it on right areas on the greens and especially if you're feeling shaky with your putter, because it just gets a little dicey out there with how baked out it gets.
Q. How confident what are you feeling about your position now?
SMYLIE KAUFMAN: I feel really solid.  I was very excited to grind out -- I was probably more happy with the way I hung in there yesterday and shot 74, it was a really difficult day and really I had a lot of, I missed three short ones and for me that's I typically brush those in.  I really just stayed composed as I could and it was a good lesson for me for the weekend that comes, things are going to happen, it's going to be about just staying mentally calm and just all about the next shot.  So it was nice to, obviously, have a bogey-free round out there today.  It was a fun day.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT