AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: YANKEES v RANGERS
October 21, 2010
Colby Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How valuable have these two starts that you've made been for you in terms of preparing for this one?   
 COLBY LEWIS: A bunch. I mean, like I've always said, I mean, you can't really get too used to it, but I mean, I think that you can get more comfortable.  
 You know, I think every playoff game and atmosphere is a little bit different. But I mean, I think that's what makes guys a little bit better, like Andy Pettitte. He's got how many starts in the post-season, and I think it definitely helps him get more comfortable for sure, and Mariano and those guys that have so many appearances for sure.  
  
  Q. When a guy like Cano is so locked in right now, what challenges does that present to you?   
 COLBY LEWIS: Make better pitches. You know, I mean, that's basically it. Try to make your pitch and hopefully he miss-hits it somehow. That's all you can do is try not to make mistakes, because when a guy is locked in like that, you do make a little mistake, and he takes advantage of it, for sure.   
  
  Q. Since the Yankees had not faced you and you faced them, do you change up anything now that you have a better idea what to expect since you are facing them again?  
 COLBY LEWIS: I think it's like anything in the regular season. Like me, I think I faced the A's six times this year. I think you just kind of stick with your approach on how you feel that day in the bullpen and you make your adjustments from there.  
 You try to command your pitches and see what type of swings they are making, and like I say, make your adjustments from their point of view.  
  
  Q. Can you talk a little about, you know, any pressure or nerves you might be feeling, not only to just close it out and get it done, but to not have to go to a Game 7, that type of thing.   
 COLBY LEWIS: Of course, you want to finish as quick as you can, but yeah, I mean, I don't think there's any extra added pressure on us or anything like that. We are really comfortable. The clubhouse is really relaxed. We are back at home where we have been playing really well, and we just got to go out and take care of it. I mean, that's all there is to it.   
  
  Q. After all of the times you've been signed, released, moved around, Japan a year ago, how grateful are you for an opportunity to actually be in a position where it's up to you to put a team into the World Series?   
 COLBY LEWIS: Yeah, I mean, it's a great feeling, of course. I mean, that's -- I mean, I don't know what else to say, but to tell me that I'd be in this situation two years ago when I was thinking that, you know, me, finishing up my career in Japan, I would have told you you'd be nuts.   
 But it's a situation where I'm totally grateful for it, and grateful for the opportunity that the Rangers gave me to come back and continue to prove my talents here in the States.   
 You know, I just want to go out and do what I've been doing all year, try to give a quality start, and leave it in the hands of the hitters.   
  
  Q. You were talking about how loose this team is, how comfortable they are being home, but it seems to have started at the beginning of the year and things haven't seemed to change. Did you sense what this team was feeling coming out of Spring Training, even though the enormity gets greater every time you come out?   
 COLBY LEWIS: That's exactly what we said in Spring Training, we wanted to win the World Series, and we are one win away from getting there. Now it's right there in front of us and we've just got to take it.   
  
  Q. Last outing, you pitched great, but you said you couldn't pitch as long as you wanted. Have you been thinking about that, how to stay longer?  
 COLBY LEWIS: I mean, basically all that's going deep into the game is getting quick outs and not getting guys on base and not walking guys.  
 That's the approach that I've tried to take all year, and that's what I want to take into tomorrow's start is try to get quick outs and go as deep as I can in the ballgame for sure.   
  
  Q. Your manager has talked for a couple of days about how aggressive your team is, how he's told guys to take what the game gives them, and you can just see it, not only in this series, but for a long time now, taking extra bases, stealing bases. How much fun is it to pitch or just to watch a team do that, especially with a guy like Elvis who really seems fearless?   
 COLBY LEWIS: Yeah, it's a situation where our team, I think, puts the extra added pressure on them.   
 We take advantage of the small mistakes. We take advantage of the little things that some teams might not do. Like Wash says, you know, sometimes we might get ourselves in trouble, but more often than not, we put ourselves in better situations; taking a bag here, a hit-and-run here. It's just like he said, try to do the small things.   
  
  Q. Are you superstitious? I know you're serious about getting this job done tomorrow might, but anything you do during the season?   
 COLBY LEWIS: No. I think the biggest thing is that since my son was born is really just quality family time all the time. I think that's the biggest thing that's really helped me in my career is staying focused on that aspect of it, and that it's more than just baseball; it's being around your family and that's what keeps me relaxed.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT