MLB WORLD SERIES: RANGERS v CARDINALS
October 19, 2011
Colby Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Your road ERA this year, more than two points lower than home. Any explanation for success on the road? And do you think that Ron looked at that in making you the Game 3 starter of the first two series and Game 2 this time?
 COLBY LEWIS: I think last year somebody said that my splits were the exact opposite that it was this year. I don't know, I think just a new year things are different. Things change year to year. I'm not really worried about it. Looking forward to the first time getting to hit. I didn't get to hit last year, so I'm looking forward to that.

 Q. Do you think Ron took that into account in making you the Game 3 starter the first two series and Game 2 this series?
 COLBY LEWIS: I'm sure. I'm sure last year my home stats were better and this year my road stats are better. I didn't ask about it, but yeah. 

 Q. What are the things that you took away from your time in Japan as a pitcher and as a person that really stick with you today? 
 COLBY LEWIS: I just think being comfortable with family and stuff like that. I think when I was over in Japan, it was really easy for the families to travel. It was really easy schedule for starters. If you didn't pitch on the road, you didn't go on the road. It was a lot more family time. You get to work out in the minor league facility and you got to leave after five innings every home game. There was a lot of family time, and I really enjoyed that. I think that's kind of the biggest key that I took away from being there, and just trying to do that when you come back here is a little bit more difficult. But I think that's what makes me comfortable, yeah. 

 Q. As you mentioned, you'll be hitting here. Because you don't hit often, will you take real conservative swings so as to not risk any sort of muscle pull or anything because it's a somewhat unnatural act? 
 COLBY LEWIS: I don't know. I'm an athlete, I am going to go up and have fun and try to put the bat on the ball and situational hit if I have to, situational bunt. We practiced a little bit on it. I don't know. It's fun. I enjoyed it the two years I did it in Japan and looking forward to it again. 

 Q. I know you've been asked about your post-season success a lot this October, but maybe one more time. Have you been able to identify anything that is different for you in the post-season, or is it just a matter of it's a comfort zone for you? 
 COLBY LEWIS: Yeah, I mean, it's kind of all or nothing. You go out there and you don't know if you're going to get the ball again. It's something you go out and you let it all hang out, and whatever happens, happens. You can't really worry about your what-ifs or anything like that. You just focus on the one pitch that you have at hand and do it. I mean, I just -- yeah, it's comfortable, it's exciting, stands are packed, towels are waving. I mean, it's kind of hard not to get pumped up for it, you know? 

 Q. You've been pitching in million-degree heat all summer. What's it going to be like in 40-something, 30-something wind chill? And also if there's any kind of a delay, what about passing the time and keeping your mind focused but not worrying about delays and whatnot?
 COLBY LEWIS: I mean, I approach it the same thing as being hot. It doesn't really matter. You've got to adapt to either circumstance. For me, I mean, when it's hot, you try to find a cool spot to cool off in between innings. When it's cold, you're going to try to find a warm spot to warm up, stay warm. It's just adapting to your surroundings and stay focused. 

 Q. You came here yesterday, yesterday and today, have you gotten used to this stadium?
 COLBY LEWIS: I've never pitched here. All the dimensions are the same, 60 feet, 90 feet, all the good stuff. I think it's just another stadium. They haven't played in our stadium yet, either, this year. I mean, it's just adapting. Like I said, with the weather, stadiums, everything is -- you just adapt to it and go have fun. 

 Q. To be able to watch tonight and watch their hitters and how they react, is that some advantage for you? 
 COLBY LEWIS: I think just the little bit of time that I got to see them when they weren't on the same time as we were in the post-season, just kind of going back through those films and stuff and seeing what Milwaukee did. Yeah, I can take away some things. C.J. is left-handed but if we get some of our righties in there, I'll definitely pay attention to that for sure. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT