AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: TIGERS v RANGERS
October 10, 2011
Colby Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Colby. 

 Q. Colby, you got some experience at Comerica. Is there anything about that park you keep in mind when you pitch there? 
     COLBY LEWIS: Not really. I mean, it is a big ballpark. You don't have to worry about, you know, the home run as much as you would in say a smaller park. 
     But, I don't know, I'm not really concerned with any different parks. You make your pitches, you try to keep your ball down and make your groundball outs. 

 Q. Colby, at what point are you flying out? And will you get there in time to see the plane, and what do you plan to do when you get there? 
     COLBY LEWIS: I'm going to try to get updates on my phone. It's definitely disappointing. I want to be there. I don't know. It's one of those situations where you don't know if the weather is going to be the way it is, and the game goes late and we get in at 2, 3, 4:00 in the morning, whatever it is. 
     It's definitely disappointing. I want to be there for my guys and support them the best way I can. But you have to look at the whole perspective on things, travel early and try to get a good night's sleep and go get them tomorrow. 

 Q. You had a couple of rough outings against this club. How do you -- other than me bringing it up now, how do you put that behind you and kind of turn the page and do you what need to do to have success? 
     COLBY LEWIS: Tomorrow is tomorrow. You don't really worry about anything in the past. Once it's over, it's done with, you just walk in the dugout and forget about it and move forward and prepare yourself for the next day. 
     I'm not really concerned with anything that's happened within my past. I've thrown some good games against them last year and stuff like that too. It doesn't really matter, like I said, what has gone on this year. Tomorrow is a new day, and just go attack and try to get outs. 

 Q. Colby, I'm curious from your perspective what you're seeing and what you guys have put together in the bullpen, especially now with Ogando out there? 
     COLBY LEWIS: Well, I mean, you see what Ogando can do. He throws 100 from his ear. So it's definitely a plus to have him back in the pen, especially the veteran leadership of Oliver and Adams and stuff like that, that they're going to come in and do their part to get outs. Feliz is just doing his job as usual. I think we have one of the best bullpens in the game. It's just one of those things that you are never concerned when you come out of the game that they're going to fail. 

 Q. You hear so much about postseason experience. What does it mean for guys like you to now have done it before and get a chance to pitch again in the postseason? 
     COLBY LEWIS: Once you get your feet wet, it's exactly what you're saying, that you get more comfortable. That's all there is to it. It's the comfortability aspect of things. 
     Basically the more you do it, like I said, the more you do it, the more you go out there, the more you understand what it takes to perform and be on that stage. 
     THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much. 
     COLBY LEWIS: Thanks, guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT