MLB WORLD SERIES: RANGERS v GIANTS
October 30, 2010
Colby Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 San Francisco Giants 2
  Texas Rangers  4 
   
  Q. Given where you were last year, three years ago, to be in a World Series game and to hear everybody chanting your name as you're walking off the field, what's that feel like?   
 COLBY LEWIS: Like I said before in a previous interview, I had a similar situation, of course it wasn't the World Series, the big stage, but in Japan they did it a couple times. Yeah, it's great. I mean, it's an unbelievable feeling. I get goose bumps thinking about it right now. It's an awesome, awesome feeling to think that many people come out to see me and see the Rangers play.   
  
  Q. The last two series you've had terrific success right after Rangers defeats. Do you look at it as "I must win this"?  
 COLBY LEWIS: Well, I think for sure. We definitely don't want to go three down, so we've got to go out there and win tonight, and that was my big thing. We came back home, we knew we had a little bit of momentum on our side coming back after the ALCS playing well here. So it was just a thing of comfortability really, coming back home and letting the fans do their work and us doing ours.   
  
  Q. You've had some fans, not you but the Rangers have had fans for 39 seasons and you've also picked up a lot of new bandwagon fans. How good does it feel to give them a win at home in a World Series game?  
 COLBY LEWIS: It feels amazing for sure. You know, I feel very fortunate to be on this stage really, like everybody says. I was in a Japan for the last two years not thinking I would have this opportunity. But I'm here, trying to make the most of it, and it's just a great feeling to be back here to have this big of a following, and like I said, to do it on this stage.   
  
  Q. The Giants came in with 20 runs the first two games and a lot of momentum. How big was getting out of the first inning with two guys on so their momentum didn't keep going?  
 COLBY LEWIS: Yeah, I just tried to tell myself to -- I knew being in the bullpen I felt like my stuff was pretty good, so I knew and I just told myself to command my pitches and I'd get myself out of it. I wasn't real flustered. I mean, it's early, so even when you do give up runs early, I think it's a big thing to try to just stay calm and know that there's a lot of game left.   
  
  Q. For the way you pitch, how crucial is it for you to control the counts?   
 COLBY LEWIS: Yeah, I mean, for sure. I think it's crucial with any guy. If you go out and pound the strike zone early, it opens up a lot of doors. I think it's a situation where you can get ahead early and throw the pitches you want to late. You see it with all the great pitchers, with Halladay and all those guys getting ahead early, with C.J. last night, pounding the strike zone early. It's just a situation where you're able to throw the pitches when you want to when you get ahead early.   
  
  Q. There's been a lot of talk since the loss in Game 2 about what might happen, who would pitch Game 4 for you guys in the event of an 0-3 or something. Do you hear that kind of conversation, and were you -- I don't know, were you thinking, let's just play the game before we make those decisions or are you insulted by it?  
 COLBY LEWIS: No, not at all. We take one game at a time, and that's what we have to do really is go out and play and compete and then make the decisions after the game.   
  
  Q. As you were putting together your game plan for tonight what was the most important aspect of it did you think that you really had to do against this team?  
 COLBY LEWIS: For me, I mean, with the previous series, Yankees loaded up the lineups with lefties, and I knew my curveball was going to be a big player, and my change-up. So tonight, of course I threw a lot of sliders. I think it's a situation also with my breaking ball that worked well. Basically that was it. It was trying to command the fastball in and out. I felt like I was kind of peeling off, jerking the fastball and letting it not really commanding the inside fastball to lefties. It felt good to righties, but I couldn't get it in to lefties. But definitely the slider, I think, played a large part tonight.   
  
  Q. Obviously the bullpen has had some problems off and on in the playoffs. What were your thoughts on Feliz shutting it down tonight?  
 COLBY LEWIS: I wasn't worried at all. Those guys have been doing it all year. Nefti came in throwing 100, as he usually does, pounding the strike zone early, and put guys away with the big fastball.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT