MLB WORLD SERIES: RANGERS v GIANTS
October 29, 2010
Colby Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. The last couple times you've started has been following losses and you've been able to pick things back up for the Rangers. What's made you so good at that and what do you expect tomorrow? 
 COLBY LEWIS: Nothing, really. I mean, I don't think there's anything that I take a mindset in there, changing anything. Like I said, I've always kind of just wanted to go out and give my team a quality start. You know, just being aggressive, trying to keep guys off the basepaths really. Seems like they've done a really good job with that, getting guys on and getting some key hits. So we're just going to basically try to lock that down. 

 Q. Do you sell yourself on the notion that these are just other starts? And if so, how do you do it? 
 COLBY LEWIS: Yeah, I mean, it's just -- for me, I don't know, it's -- yeah, I guess. I want to try to keep the same mindset. If you try to get too amped or too overly confident, I think you get yourself in trouble. So I just try to stay relaxed and just look at it like it's another start.  
 Q. Just your general impressions of the Giants' lineup having watched the first two games of the series play out. 
 COLBY LEWIS: Yeah, I think like I just mentioned, I think they're doing a really good job at taking advantage of mistakes, and I think if we play some good ball and take care of it on the defensive side. We hit the ball really well the first game. Of course Cain did his job the second game, but it's a situation where we've just got to go out and play good baseball and take care of it and score some runs. 

 Q. Looking back, what was the biggest game that you pitched when you were in Japan? 
 COLBY LEWIS: I don't know. I mean, probably my first start over there, just kind of not knowing what to expect or anything like that. My second year I started both Opening Days away and at home, so that was a good time for me. 
 But the fans over there, I mean, it's just -- seems like it's always a sellout. It's a good time, and it's always noisy, it's always loud. I think that's what kind of helps me coming back here with the noise and the celebration and everybody cheering and stuff like that. There's no real big difference, though. 

 Q. When you closed out the Yankees in Game 6, you were up three games to two. Is this one a little bit different because there's little room for error at this point? 
 COLBY LEWIS: Yeah, well, it's -- I mean, we've got to win either way. That's just the way it is. Just in Game 6 or Game 7, we have to win. I mean, we have to win four out of five, as I mentioned. So it's just -- there's no really room for error. It's just a situation where we're back at home, and we played really well here, and I'm looking forward to it. 

 Q. Can you talk about the impact that Bengie Molina has on you throughout your starts. 
 COLBY LEWIS: Yeah, I think Bengie is just a guy that you can rely a lot of confidence in and knowing that when he does come to the mound and talk to you about certain pitches or gets you motivated, it's in his best interest for sure. The situation for me, I mean, his skills back there are unbelievable, where he sees it, wherever he sets up, wherever he presents the ball, it all kind of goes hand in hand with just the way he plays the game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT