NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MONACO R.V.
October 7, 2010
Dorothy Delasin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MATT PAULSON: Dorothy, welcome.
 DOROTHY DELASIN: Thank you.
 MATT PAULSON: Good playing today. Talk a little bit about the round. I know it was a disappointing end to it, but talk about the round before that and then a little bit about 18.
 DOROTHY DELASIN: It wasn't disappointing. I haven't played a good first round in a long time, so I was really happy with it. I don't know. My game just clicked. I didn't hit every fairway. I was still all over the place. 
 I hit it close enough to make a putt. My putting was really good. Just had fun out there. 
 MATT PAULSON: You've played the last couple years here. You've had a couple pretty good finishes. Is there something about this golf course or this tournament that you like? 
 DOROTHY DELASIN: I think it's wide open and I can hit it all over the place and still get away with it. (Laughing.) 
 No, it's a good course. The layout fits me good. I play draw and I hit it high and long, so good advantage.
 MATT PAULSON: Questions. 

 Q. You said your putting was really good today. We've been hearing a lot about the greens on this course this year. How are you reading the greens? How are they playing for you? 
 DOROTHY DELASIN: You know, you can't do anything with Mother Nature. You have to accept it and play with it. I just did the same routine I had, which was look at my line and put it there. 
 I just tried to keep it simple. 

 Q. Did you have any particular birdie putts of any length or anything that surprised you at all?
 DOROTHY DELASIN: No, they were all pretty makable. I mean, every putt a makable. I thinking the longest birdie putt that I had that I did make was probably 15 to 20 feet. I was knocking them pretty close.

 Q. 18 you were at -8 then -6 real quick. What happened there?
 DOROTHY DELASIN: I had to pee really bad. (Laughing.) I just got quick with my drive and it went left. I got in the tall, I don't know what the name of the grass is, and I'm like, Well, I'll just hit it toward the fair way. 
 Hit it as hard as I could and got out, but it like it went behind me I guess because it was so thick. I advanced it probably about 10 yards, but it was still in the tall grass.
 Then I hit it again into the fairway. I just kind of got lucky there. I mean, if I got it out the first time then I would be in the fairway and probably save par or made bogey or something like that. 
 It wasn't disappointing. I'm excited, and hopefully I can keep it up for the next three days.

 Q. As I understand it, you haven't won a tournament this year or even made a cut. Is this your big chance to win one?
 DOROTHY DELASIN: Um, yeah. Been taking baby steps and this is a huge step, so I'm just gonna keep moving up. 

 Q. (Question regarding events played this year.)
 DOROTHY DELASIN: I think so. I'm just kind of going with the flow now. 

 Q. What's next for you? 
 DOROTHY DELASIN: Danville next week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT