MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 6, 2004
Dorothy Delasin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DANA VONLOUDA:  Co-leader with Helen right now.  Six birdies, one bogey.  Opening round 66.  Talk about the day.
DOROTHY DELASIN: I was just hitting the fairways, that's key out there because the rough is  -- it's not that high, but it's thick.  I mean, it's going to get you.  I putted really well, made a lot of putts.  Just played solid golf.  Pretty boring.  No, not really because I had some good up-and-downs.  That wasn't boring, that was kind of, you know, heart-pumping.  Stressful.  (Laughs).
Q.  Can you go through your card.
DANA VONLOUDA:  11.
DOROTHY DELASIN: 11, I hit sand wedge to about seven feet, made the putt.

12, I hit a 9-iron to about a foot, made the one-footer.

On 13, I hit a choke 8-iron to about seven feet, made the putt.

16, I went in the rough on the left.  I had to lay up and hit an approach shot from like 100 yards, 2-putted from, I think, 20 feet for bogey.

Then on 18 I hit a choke pitching wedge to about 20 feet, made the putt.

No. 3, I hit it in the bunker on the right, green-side bunker hit out of the bunker to about ten feet, made the putt.
DANA VONLOUDA:  What club did you hit in?
DOROTHY DELASIN: I hit a 4-iron, a choke 4-iron.

6, I hit a choke 7, and I had a long putt and it was about, I'd say, 40 feet and it went in the hole.  Good thing it hit the hole because it would have been off the green.  I hit it pretty hard.
Q.  What was the hole position there today, down front?
DOROTHY DELASIN: No, it was like  -- it was in the middle of the green but it was in that little small like tier.  I was like wow, that's an interesting pin position.
Q.  On 12 you hit the shot, a 9-iron to one foot.  How far away were you from the hole?
DOROTHY DELASIN: I was 145 to the pin.
Q.  You took last week off?
DOROTHY DELASIN: Yes, I did.
Q.  What did you do?
DOROTHY DELASIN: I was hanging out at home.  I was helping Notah and Clint, Notah Begay with his family, it was their feast, so they were dancing and I was like the dishwasher, so I was helping out his family.  I haven't washed that many dishes since I worked in a restaurant with my dad when I was 13.  So I appreciate what I do now.  It was fun though because not that many people can experience that.
Q.  Where was that at?
DOROTHY DELASIN: It was at San Filippi Pueblo, Albuquerque, New Mexico and both Notah and Clint, his family and  -- it was a great experience.
Q.  How did you get with Notah, friendshipwise, schoolwise, what is the connection?
DOROTHY DELASIN: I met Notah at an award ceremony in like 2000 and we just kept in touch and just became great friends and then I ended up meeting Clint and he became my best friend.  I ended up meeting his whole family and it is just like I am a part of the whole family.  They are a part of my family.  It's a good close relationship.
Q.  So this was some kind of family function?  What was it  --
DOROTHY DELASIN: Yes, it was like a family function for them.  But they invite people to come and it's all about sharing and while they are dancing they are praying, stuff like that.  So it was really nice.
Q.  Do you usually play pretty well after a layoff like that?
DOROTHY DELASIN: Yes.  I wouldn't say yes.  I haven't had a layoff as much since I teed it up in Tucson.  (Laughs).  But you know, I feel good coming into this week.  I am just going to go out there and try and play hard.
Q.  Did Notah give you any crib notes on how to play this golf course?  I mean, he won here.
DOROTHY DELASIN: 18 he did.  He said there's a lot of room right so don't be afraid to hit it over there.  I always ask him.  His brothers always is asking him what to do in this hole, so, then Clint would kind of feed it into me.  He just said hit the fairways because the rough is -- it's pretty thick.
Q.  That was pretty simple guidance there, but got to follow it, right?
DOROTHY DELASIN: Yeah, the hard part is following it.
Q.  Your bio says that you like to participate in a little karaoke every once in a while?
DOROTHY DELASIN: Oh, I love it.  Next American Idol I am probably going to join.
Q.  What is the tune that you are just going to sing when you really want to knock it out?
DOROTHY DELASIN: Gosh, I will sing Dancing Queen or some Mariah Carey or Whitney, old Whitney like '80s Whitney; not new Whitney.  Or like some

Earth Wind and Fire because I like to get my groove on.  It's fun because like there's a place in Albuquerque it's called Grand Central Station I think and it's like five parts to the club.  One part is like a karaoke.  It has a stage and a bar and I got up there and I signed up.  I was singing a song.  I even had backup dancers which was kind of cool.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT