AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2011
Thiemo De Bakker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







G. MONFILS/T. De Bakker
  6-7, 2-6, 7-5, 6-2, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

 Q. You were two sets up, 5-2, 5-3. What happened at this moment exactly?
 THIEMO de BAKKER: I was exactly two sets up. At 4-1 in the third, when I went for a ball, came a little bit in my groin, like a traction. So from that moment I had problems to play rallies and to serve.
 I was a little bit lucky at 4-2 already. Like the long game, I just went for it. Came a little bit lucky. And when he broke me back, I knew it was pretty much going to be tough.

 Q. Do you think your forehand is a key point at this moment?
 THIEMO de BAKKER: I don't know. I mean, it was 15-30. For sure it gave me another chance. Should have make it, but it's still 30-All. If I had two good serves, yeah, it's done, I know.
 But if I don't, I knew it was tough. I had to go for it. Didn't happen. Done.

 Q. You were in the top 50 in 2010. What are your goals for 2011?
 THIEMO de BAKKER: To win the match (smiling). No.
 I mean, kind of the same. I would love to go to actually 30 and maybe get in the top 30. I think that's realistic normally. Today I played three sets really well. I had problems in the beginning. I was a little bit nervous.
 He was getting a lot of balls, bringing a lot of balls back. When I was getting to the net, he was hitting them at my feet. So it was tough.
 But I think after that I played pretty well. Yeah, didn't happen in the end.

 Q. Gaël said he knew if he applied pressure to you you would probably tank or snap in the fourth and get back into it in the fifth. What do you say to that? Do you think you have a reputation for being soft when the pressure is applied?
 THIEMO de BAKKER: Not really. But there was nothing I could do. My body, I couldn't hit two or three balls in the rally, and I had problems with serving. The only thing I could do is hopefully get better in the fourth or to let it a little bit go when I was a break down, and hopefully it went better in the fifth.
 But, I mean, yeah, in the end, didn't happen. I want to get a fight there, but if it's not possible. The body says no. There's not much I can do.

 Q. You weren't tightening up mentally after that?
 THIEMO de BAKKER: No. What I said already at 4-1 in the third. If you see the game at 4-2, I'm trying to play serve and volley and go for it. I was already lucky in that game.
 Also in the rallies I just went for it and tried to finish the points as quickly as possible. I had little bit luck there and had some good serves in the end.
 But, yeah, if I serve four good serves in the last game, I mean, probably it's done. But, you say, serving for the match, I hit one good shot to go Love-15, you know the pressure is there.
 Didn't happen. I know it's going to be tough in the end.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT