U.S. OPEN
September 4, 2010
Thiemo De Bakker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. SODERLING/T. De Bakker
  6-2, 6-3, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. It was a bad combination for you, it seemed, with you playing pretty badly and him playing pretty well.   
 THIEMO de BAKKER: Ah, I think it wasn't a pretty match, but tough conditions. It was a lot of wind on court.   
 I think we were both struggling a little bit, actually. He was also struggling with his serve. I didn't serve well at all.  
 So it was tough. Yeah, he did better than me with the conditions.  
  
  Q. You're similar to him in size. You could also make very good power. Can you say a few words about what it's like to play against his level of power and his all-court game?  
 THIEMO de BAKKER: He serves really well normally, especially the first serve, especially also the second normally.  
 Today it was a little less because of the wind. It was tough to throw the ball because it was flying away always. But he's not playing that flat always. With backhand he's pretty flat, but forehand he hits it pretty heavy. When he can execute, he executes. If he does it, he does it well.  
 So I think that's the biggest thing, also. When I get the chances, I need more shots instead of the one shot that he needs to do it.  
  
  Q. Despite your loss today, you made pretty good progress recently. What do you need to do to go to the next level?  
 THIEMO de BAKKER: Ah, I have to develop my game still. Physically, tennis-wise, I need to get more decent with a few things, with executing shots. Just need to get to the next level on those things to get a good match against these guys.  
  
  Q. There are no teenagers in the top 100. Why do you think it's so difficult for teenagers to breakthrough like they used to?  
 THIEMO de BAKKER: There are a few, Del Potro, Cilic, Gulbis, me, Dolgopolov. There are a few. I'm not sure what the effort is to breakthrough. I'm still young. I think I'm pretty young to breakthrough, so I think it's tough.   
 I mean, the guys -- the game got so physically these days, so I mean, yeah, the older you get, the more physical stronger you get.  
 So when you're young -- I mean, it's tough to compete with the bigger guys, so I think that's also a big thing.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT