WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2010
Thiemo De Bakker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. De Bakker/J. Isner
  6-0, 6-3, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How much of Isner-Mahut in the first round did you watch? Were you sitting there rooting for it to keep going and going and going?  
 THIEMO DE BAKKER: I have no idea how much of the match I watched. I watched a lot of the fifth when I was lying at the physio table or just waiting, so I have no clue how many games. But I watched pretty much of the fifth. The first four sets I didn't see.   
  
  Q. Were you glad to see it going on and on and on because you knew whoever won would be pretty exhausted to play you?  
 THIEMO DE BAKKER: After my first match, I was pretty tired as well. But 16-14 is nothing anymore. So in a way I want it to end because they were tired, so for the day after I think I would be fitter, but I didn't mind the other day off, as well, actually.   
  
  Q. Did you have some sympathy for your opponent today after what he went through?  
 THIEMO DE BAKKER: Of course. I mean, 70-68, I mean, it's pretty sick. When you're watching live score, something, you see the results. Then you see 70-68.   
 I think if people at home who didn't know it, watching it, I mean, they'll probably think it's a mistake or anything. It's unbelievable, 11 hours. What was the longest match before? Six hours? They almost doubled it. I'm curious who's gonna beat it. I think nobody in the next few lot of years.   
  
  Q. Did you feel sympathy for him out there? Clearly from the very first game the guy was struggling.   
 THIEMO DE BAKKER: Yeah, for sure. I mean, it's tough because, you know, he's struggling. But, yeah, when you're a break down against a guy like him, you never know what's going to happen. You have to be sharp every moment.   
 Luckily I could take a break in each set pretty fast, so that makes it a lot easier. Yeah, it's hard. I mean, it's tough to retire for him, as well. I mean, he had a great run in the first round, but it's tough to continue when you play 11 hours in a row.   
  
  Q. Were you surprised he carried on playing? He seemed to be getting information to pack it in, but he wouldn't.   
 THIEMO DE BAKKER: I didn't see the information. But, yeah, the first set he didn't try at all. And then in the second set, he was trying a little bit better, in the third also. In the beginning, he was trying to serve, but he didn't make the 135s or whatever he can do.   
 So, I mean, at least he was trying there with the things he could. So I'm happy I could take the early breaks. I mean, that makes it a lot easier for me.   
  
  Q. Is it difficult playing an opponent who's clearly not a hundred percent? Does it make it difficult for you?  
 THIEMO DE BAKKER: Yeah, it's hard because what I just said. Let's say if I get a break behind in the beginning or I play one terrible game, and he's a break up, it makes it a lot more easier for him to go and to fight instead of me breaking in the beginning and, yeah, controlling the match. Then it's a lot easier for me to play.   
  
  Q. Do you feel a part of history, knocking off the guy who won the longest match?   
 THIEMO DE BAKKER: Yeah. Yeah, for me doesn't matter. I mean, I want to go through. I was lucky now that I had him in my second round. For me it was lucky.   
 I mean, it would have been a bigger story if he would make it to the final now. But, I mean, it's pretty tough when you played 11 hours. So, yeah.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT