VALERO TEXAS OPEN
May 15, 2009
Lance Ten Broeck
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. It's not often that you get someone who's caddied at a PGA TOUR event and then played as a player. Tell me, after the round that you played this morning as a player, how are you feeling physically?
 LANCE TEN BROECK: Physically I'm fine. I'm just disappointed I didn't play any better. I know I was close. 
 I'm one over and the cut's going to be 1-under, so it's close. 

 Q. For someone that is not playing regularly, you still have that competitive drive obviously. 
 LANCE TEN BROECK: It's something I always wanted to do. I don't think anybody's ever done it before is caddy and play in the same PGA TOUR event. So I was happy I was able to do it this week. I wasn't going to pass that up.

 Q. So how are the mechanics going to work? You're sharing clubs. How is it all going to shake out in the wash if you do make the cut?
 LANCE TEN BROECK: Well, I wish I had that problem, but I played with a different set today than I did yesterday because the set I used yesterday, they're Richard Johnson's and he has to use those this afternoon, so I couldn't use them, so I had to get another set. So it was a little difficult actually. 

 Q. What is the buzz? Obviously a lot of the caddies and players are talking about this, so what's the buzz and reaction to that?
 LANCE TEN BROECK: I think it's all positive. I think with the tournament last year, I had a bad. I shot 88 the first round, which was very embarrassing. I did a little better in the second round, though, shot a 79. 

 Q. I thought caddies came prepared. 
 LANCE TEN BROECK: I don't like to travel with my golf clubs. It's just a pain to bring them when you're not playing. 

 Q. Well, you're showing a great effort, whether you make the cut or not. 
 LANCE TEN BROECK: Well, I won't make the cut. Kenny's I think he's at 2-over right now, so I gotta get out there and try to bring him some good luck. 

 Q. Okay. Two ways to make a check this week. We'll see how he does it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT