U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2012
Lance Ten Broeck
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Ladies and gentlemen, we're pleased to have Lance Ten Broeck with us today back in the Media Center.   He shot 2 over today.   He's 4 under for the championship. 
Not exactly the round you were perhaps looking for today. 
LANCE TEN BROECK:   No.   Got off to a decent start, but then I three‑putted, and things kind of unravelled.   A couple of bad breaks off tee shots.   I played all right.   Just it's hard to play well when you don't make any putts. 
Tom Kite will tell you the same thing.   Neither one of us‑‑ we both putted horrible.

Q.   What was the difference today to how you played the first two rounds?   Was it the three‑putt that started unravelling things? 
LANCE TEN BROECK:   Yeah, when I three‑putted, I think it was the 5th hole, I had two bad breaks.   I hit two tee shots that were pretty good, ended up right underneath the lip, and I had to hit a sand wedge to get it back onto the fairway.   Bogeyed both those holes. 
I hit a lot of good shots.   Just that's golf. 

Q.   Lance, you don't seem very flappable, but how was it sleeping on the lead?   Did your phone blow up?   Lumpy, the whole bunch of them, were they calling you?   How did you deal with all that yesterday? 
LANCE TEN BROECK:   When I got done yesterday, I had 43 text messages when I turned the phone on.   I just put the phone on silent.   I talked to maybe a couple people.   That was it. 
But I slept fine.   I slept like 7 1/2 hours or whatever.   Felt pretty good before the round started, and the beginning of the round felt good.   Wasn't uptight or anything until I started strangling that putter.

Q.   I don't know how much you watched the scoreboard, but did it put any more pressure on everybody seeing what Bernhard was doing today? 
LANCE TEN BROECK:   No.   I mean, I saw that he was 8 under or something through 12.   I was just happy he was leading and I wasn't at the time, to be honest with you.

Q.   Lance, forgive me, but I'm having a little trouble understanding how you maintain your sharpness in your game, playing as little as you do.   Have you made any changes in your swing at all the last 15 years, or do you just give everything‑‑
LANCE TEN BROECK:   Oh, yeah.   If I had many changes, I wouldn't play anymore because I got to the point probably in the late '90s, 2000, where I didn't play at all because I played so bad. 
Then I just kind of figured a few things out.   You learn from watching these guys on the range at the Tour events and listening to their instructors or whatever.   You pick up a few things, and I picked up a few things that are kind of working for me.   They've been working for about the last couple years.   So I kind of got a good thought going.

Q.   Do you have a teacher? 
LANCE TEN BROECK:   No, unh‑unh.   Teachers are what put me off the Tour. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks for coming in.   Appreciate it. 
LANCE TEN BROECK:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT