U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2012
Lance Ten Broeck
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Good afternoon.   We're pleased to welcome Lance Ten Broeck to the Media Center today.   Lance shot a 2 under 68 today.   He's 6 under for the championship, currently co‑leading.   I'm told the last time Lance was a co‑leader on the tour was in 1982 at the Hall of Fame Classic.   
This is a tough course, Lance.   You put together two pretty solid rounds.   What were the keys to your success out there today?   
LANCE TEN BROECK:   Well, yesterday I played a lot better than I did today.   Today I missed more fairways.   You know, playing in the afternoon, the greens were a little choppier and not as soft, but I hung in there.   
THE MODERATOR:   What would Tim Herron say about your two rounds over the last couple of days?   
LANCE TEN BROECK:   We've played together quite a few times.   He knows I can play a little bit.   
THE MODERATOR:   Why don't we open it up for questions to Lance.   Anyone?  
   
 Q.   Talk about what kind of experience is this for you to not be caddying and actually playing and having some success so far.   
LANCE TEN BROECK:   When I came here, I knew I was playing pretty good in spite of having not really played much.   But I figuredI should be able to make the cut, but I never figured that I'd be in the last group on Saturday.   So I'm happy about that.   I'm fighting the putter both rounds.   I putted average at best yesterday, and today I made a few short ones, but I missed quite a few very easy putts inside of ten feet.  
   
 Q.   Lance, how does your caddying help your own performance?   What do you gain from that?   Also, how do you rate your son's caddying skills?   
LANCE TEN BROECK:   Let's see.   My son's doing a great job.   He knows what's going on.   He's good at reading putts, and he knows how far I hit the ball.   So he's pretty good.   He stays on the ball.   
As far as caddying goes, one thing I've noticed‑‑ and I've caddied for 13 years now.   I caddied for Parnevik for ten years, Robert Allenby for a year and a half and Herron for a year.   The guys seem to, when they screw up, the bad holes come in succession, like a domino theory.   They screw up three or four holes in a row.   
So I kind of learned, if you make a bogey, you can't really press, you've got to try to, especially on a course like this, make pars.   Because if you try to force the issue, you're just going to tack on more bogeys.   
THE MODERATOR:   Was the wind a factor at all today during your round?   
LANCE TEN BROECK:   Compared to yesterday, the wind was blowing probably at least twice as hard and a little bit different direction.   So it made the last, 16 and 18 played a lot shorter today than they did the first day.  
   
 Q.   Lance, if somebody asked you in recent years how many complete 18‑hole rounds you play a year, approximately what would the answer be?   
LANCE TEN BROECK:   How many rounds do I play in a year?  
   
 Q.   Yeah, 18‑hole rounds of golf.   
LANCE TEN BROECK:   25, 30.   I guess that means I'm well‑rested.   
   
 Q.   You said you're surprised to be in the final group tomorrow.   Does that make you change your perspective for the weekend, your expectations or your goals?   
LANCE TEN BROECK:   No.   I'm just going to keep doing what I've been doing.   Try to play aggressive from tee to green, hit the fairways, and then hopefully gain a little confidence with the putter on the weekend.   Hopefully, I can putt better on the weekend than I have the first two days, and I'll be happy.   
THE MODERATOR:   What will be your routine today?   Will you go and rest, or will you work on different aspects of your game?   
LANCE TEN BROECK:   I'm going to go putt for a little while, probably 15, 20 minutes.   I might hit 15, 20 balls.  
   
 Q.   Would you talk about growing up with golf and playing golf with Rick when you were a kid?   
LANCE TEN BROECK:   I'm the youngest of eight kids.   My father played.   Everybody in the family played.   I'm the youngest.   So I used to caddie for my older brother in amateur tournaments, and we played a lot of golf together.   We had some good matches.  
   
 Q.   Where did you play?   
LANCE TEN BROECK:   I'm from the south side of Chicago, a place called Beverly Country Club.  
   
 Q.   Caddying and playing at the highest level, when do you get more nervous, when you're on the bag and you have no control or when you're out there making the shots yourself?   
LANCE TEN BROECK:   I don't get too nervous when I'm caddying, no.   But when I'm playing, though‑‑ the hardest part, like I said, is to play when you're fighting the putter a little bit.   If you feel a little yippy or whatever, it makes for a long day, especially when the greens are fast, and you're in contention.   
So I would say definitely caddying is a lot easier than playing.   That's why you get paid more money to play.  
   
 Q.   Does your son know how to calm you down if you get nervous?   
LANCE TEN BROECK:   I don't really get nervous.   I just get mad.   I get pissed if I hit a bad shot or a bad putt.  
   
 Q.   Does he know what to do?   
LANCE TEN BROECK:   Usually when I get mad, he wants to go hide.   We haven't worked on that yet.  
   
 Q.   How old is your son?   
LANCE TEN BROECK:   He's 26.  
   
 Q.   His name?   
LANCE TEN BROECK:   Jonathan, J‑o‑n‑a‑t‑h‑a‑n.   
THE MODERATOR:   Solid round.   Congratulations.   Good luck this weekend.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT