U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2012
Lance Ten Broeck
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   First of all, just assess your round, first off.   
LANCE TEN BROECK:   Compared to yesterday, I think I played way better yesterday.   Hit a lot more fairways yesterday.   I think the course played a little harder.   There's more wind.   In the afternoon, the greens aren't soft or smooth.   I'm kind of fighting the putter at the moment.   Sohave to play a little defensive on the greens.  
   
 Q.   Still right there on the leaderboard.   High up there on the leaderboard.   Like that going into the weekend?   
LANCE TEN BROECK:   I'm very surprised to be where I'm at.   So I'm looking forward to the weekend.  
   
 Q.   And the way things are going, would it be‑‑ how surprised would you be if you were in the lead at the end of the day?   
LANCE TEN BROECK:   In the lead, that would be pretty cool, yeah.   I don't think I will be, though.   I think Tom's pretty steady.  
   
 Q.   How would that affect‑‑ either way, how does that affect you going into the weekend.   
LANCE TEN BROECK:   Either way, if you're in the last group, you've played very well the first two days.   You've got to keep doing the same things you've been doing the first two, try to do something a little better.  
   
 Q.   Been in a lot of pressure situations, being on the bag, I guess.   Does that‑‑ are your nerves going to be that much different?   
LANCE TEN BROECK:   Oh, caddying is way easier than playing.   When a guy is fighting the yips out there on the course trying to shake in a two‑footer, the caddie doesn't realize how bad the guy feels over the putt.   My son doesn't realize how bad I feel over a putt.   It's a lot easier caddying.  
   
 Q.   You said you'd been caddying eight of the last nine weeks.   Who were you caddying for?   
LANCE TEN BROECK:   Tim Herron.   Caddying the last nine weeks, and the week I had off, I qualified for the Senior Champions event in Iowa.   So this is my tenth week in a row.   
   
 Q.   As much caddying as you've done, you haven't been able to play much.   How surprised are you you've been able to play this well on this course.   
LANCE TEN BROECK:   When you don't play that much, you practice and you don't know‑‑ if you're hitting it good, you don't know how good you're playing.   Obviously, I'm playing well.   It's hard to tell if you don't play that much.   But I expected to do well.   I expected to make the cut when I came here.   I knew I was playing that well.  
   
 Q.   How about playing the final round going into Saturday?   Did you expect to be anywhere near that?   
LANCE TEN BROECK:   No, not at all.   So it's pretty cool.  
   
 Q.   During a typical tour week, do you hit balls?   What do you do?   
LANCE TEN BROECK:   No, you don't want to peak too early.   Last week, I think I played two days last week.   I hit balls maybe a couple of the days.   When I hit balls, I'm talking about hitting 30 balls.   I don't beat balls like some of these guys.   30 balls to get loose, see how it's curving.  
   
 Q.   You play early in the week?   How do you fit that in?   
LANCE TEN BROECK:   No, usually after, after the rounds.   If I get time after, if we play early one day, I'll go out and hit a few balls, chip a few.  
   
 Q.   Does it give you any extra insight into how you're playing, because from seeing it from a‑‑ being a caddie all the time, does that give you any insight into what you're doing as a player?   
LANCE TEN BROECK:   No.   But you see a lot of trends of certain ways certain players screw up.   You can see that.   Usually happens in, like, the domino theory.   I think guys tend to throw together two, three, four bogeys in a row or throw a double in there.   They try to press, try to get it back.  
Course like this, par is your friend.   There's some birdie holes, but not too many.  
   
 Q.   How much trouble did you think you were in on the last hole?   
LANCE TEN BROECK:   I knew my drive was going to be good.   I hit it exactly where I was trying to hit it.   I picked out the perfect gap.   I figured it would be left of the green.   That's a good spot to go for where the pin was.  
I just was surprised I was able to drop in the drop zone, which made it a little bit easier shot.   I had a good shot, but I hit a pathetic putt.   I mean, it wasn't even close.  
   
 Q.   Thanks.   
LANCE TEN BROECK:   Okay.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT