TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: OHIO STATE v TEXAS
January 2, 2009
Todd Boeckman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You saw USC earlier this year and you have seen plenty of film with Texas and probably saw a lot of Florida's players last year. In your mind, out of these one-loss teams, who is the best team in the country right now? 
 TODD BOECKMAN: It is hard to say. There are so many good football teams out there. To get them all, I don't know who would be the best team out there because there are so many great teams. So many great players. It is going to be a fun next couple days to watch these Bowl games.

 Q. Do you get any impression off of USC last night, did you watch any of that? 
 TODD BOECKMAN: I did watch a little bit of the first half. They are a great football team. They have a lot of play makers and very talented. The coaching staff had a great game play. They always play good play. You can't have mistakes because they will take advantage of it.

 Q. (Indiscernible)?
 TODD BOECKMAN: Like I said, I think they had too many mistakes and turnovers and you can't have them in situations like that.

 Q. Can you talk about how your situation with Terrelle has evolved, what you thought of him when you first met him and what he has become. 
 TODD BOECKMAN: When we came here at first, I knew he was talented. He wanted to learn. He wanted to become a great football player and he was always asking questions. He wants to learn and ask those questions and taking charge on the field. 
 I am excited where he is going in the future and where he is at now.

 Q. Did you connect with him right away? Did you like him? Did you want to help him? 
 TODD BOECKMAN: I definitely did. Coming in, he was going to help his team out. With a guy of that caliber, I'm excited to see the team do well. 

 Q. Was there anything you rely on to say, "maybe he will be a starter but I will be here for this team"? Anything that sparked you to be that way? 
 TODD BOECKMAN: I am still the captain of this football team. I am the senior leader and one play away. You always got to go out there and practice hard and do the right thing in the film room and on the field and be that leader. You never know what can happen in any given play.

 Q. Was it hard or not? 
 TODD BOECKMAN: It definitely was hard.

 Q. I'm sorry to keep asking this. 
 TODD BOECKMAN: You guys would lose your jobs if we weren't hard on you. 
 It is tough, keep fighting, keep moving on and be a leader of this football team.

 Q. What is your role going to be Monday night? 
 TODD BOECKMAN: I guess we will just have to wait and see. I don't know what's going to happen. We have been working on things here and there. I guess your guess is as good as mine right now.

 Q. You have a better guess (laughter). If you were working with -- have you been working with the first team? 
 TODD BOECKMAN: Every practice all year I have been working with the first team. You are always ready to be in a situation to go in there. 
 I have been prepared all year.

 Q. When did you find out you were coming today? Did they give you a list or itinerary? How does that work? 
 TODD BOECKMAN: Usually every year I knew because captains are always up front and being a senior leader, I figured I would be here. Today on the bus, they gave us the list. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT