INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY QWEST
August 2, 2002
Craig Barlow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN vT ALEXANDER: Like to welcome Craig Barlow to the interview room for a few minutes.  Great day out.  It looks like you threw up a lot of birdies, which is important out here in this format.  Why don't you just talk about the conditions.  I know it was pretty windy out there and then we will go into some questions.
CRAIG BARLOW:  The conditions were tough.  But like I was saying earlier, when we teed off in the morning it was breezy, it really wasn't windy.  So I seemed to get into the round before the wind started to pick up.  And by the time the wind picked up I was swinging at it well.  And to be honest with you, I just, when you hit the ball solid, I did that today, the wind didn't affect it much.  So it is playing tough.  But my back nine, which was the front nine really there wasn't any holes into the wind.  They were either side winds or down winds.  So as far as winds went I didn't think it was that difficult.  Still have to play good golf though. 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Questions? 
Q.  Did you go into today thinking of a score or thinking a number?
CRAIG BARLOW:  No.  You do know that you're rewarded for birdies, which is nice.  Fortunately I made a lot of birdies.  I mean I normally make a lot of birdies and unfortunately I make bogeys.  But in this format you don't get punished as much by having birdies and bogeys.  So like yesterday I had six bogeys, four birdies and an eagle.  So I shot even par but I had seven points.  Because the eagle, you really jump up.  And today I had six birdies and two bogeys.  So I am making a lot of birdies which is definitely key in this format. 

Q.  Craig, in your career on the Tour you've always been right around that 125 come end of the year.  Would it be nice to be able to go, okay, we're done?
CRAIG BARLOW:  Absolutely.

Q.  Is that the goal?
CRAIG BARLOW:  Well, the goal is to play good golf.  Unfortunately I have lingered around that 125 more than I would like.  But it wasn't from lack of trying.  I always try to give it my best and fortunately it's worked out a couple of times in my favor and I've lost my card a couple times.  So, yes, I would love to not have to think about that.  But the bottom line is I want to execute golf shots.  And I feel like if I do that, then I, the results will take care of themselves. 

Q.  You have three boys?
CRAIG BARLOW:  Three step sons.  Twins that are 15 and a 16 year old. 

Q.  Teenage boys. 
CRAIG BARLOW:  Yeah.  All boys. 

Q.  All want cars?
CRAIG BARLOW:  Yeah.  We're definitely getting our hands full. 

Q.  Take us through your round. 
CRAIG BARLOW:  Well, I started on number 10.  Which I feel like is probably one of the hardest holes on the course.  And it was 7 in the morning.  Still half asleep.  And I hit a driver, 5-iron about 10 feet.  Made it for birdie.  So that was like a dream come true.  I didn't ever expect -- you just want to make par on 10.  So I made birdie there and and that was a nice wake up call.  And as the round went on I really can't think of anything spectacular.  I drove the ball very well.  I putted a lot better today than I have been putting.  And I just really didn't make too many mistakes. 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Can you finish out your round on your birdies and your bogeys.
CRAIG BARLOW:  15 -- I hit driver off the tee.  The wind was into us.  And I hit lob wedge from a hundred yards to about 15 feet and made it. 
16, missed the green left.  Hit a 6-iron, missed a good up-and-down. 
And then on 17, 17 I had hit 3-wood, 6-iron about 15 feet and left my eagle putt short.  Which is ridiculous.  It was right up the hill.  Perfect eagle opportunity. 
And then 18 I played sloppy.  That was one of my bogeys.  I drove it in the right rough.  Couldn't get it on the green and actually made a pretty good bogey.  I got caught up about 40 yards short of the green on that really steep side slope and it was like a T-ball.  My T-ball days. 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  And then birdie on four.  Par-3.
CRAIG BARLOW:  Four, I kind of ironically I hit a good 5-iron right in the middle of the green and just as I was putting my ball down I felt felt my nose and it was starting to bleed.  So I didn't think  -- I said just back off.  I pinched it for a second and it started gushing.  I told my playing partners, I said you guys can go, but I got to take care of this.  So it took about two or three minutes for it to stop.  And I ended up so after all that I made lucky 25 footer for birdie.  So I was, it was nice.  That was number four, the par-3. 
Then five, missed the green, chipped it to four feet and lipped it out.  So I made bogey there. 
So then turned around on six and made an unbelievable putt for birdie.  Had about a 20 footer.  I feel like that green's probably the most severe on the course.  And I was just lagging.  You get above that pin, you are just hoping it dies in.  And it did. 
And then 7, the par-3 down the hill, I had, this tells you how one windy it was, I had 185 and I hit pitching wedge.  Which I normally hit pitching wedge about 135.  But it was elevated and down wind.  So I hit wedge about 12 feet and made it. 
And then good pars on eight and nine.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Questions? 
Q.  Were you able to see other guys putt then?
CRAIG BARLOW:  No.  I actually, Esteban Toledo was in front of my mark and he decided to wait.  So they didn't, they just waited for it to quit.  I guess he wanted to see my line. 

Q.  How did you get it to stop?
CRAIG BARLOW:  Just the old fashioned way just head back and pinched it. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
CRAIG BARLOW:  No.  No. 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  All right, guys.
CRAIG BARLOW:  I washed my hands on the next tee. 
(Laughter.)
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  All right.  All right. 
CRAIG BARLOW:  No, we got ladies in here now. 
(Laughter.)
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Do you have any other golf questions? 
Q.  Back to how you had to go to school, stay on Tour, go to school?
CRAIG BARLOW:  Okay.

Q.  How big a relief?   What's the number 420,000?  What's the number there?
CRAIG BARLOW:  Well, I would think it would be more than that.  Last year I think it was 410.  And I made 420.  I mean I had, I made 427.  So I didn't make it by much.  I think it's going to be in the 450, you know, I missed the first three months of this season.  I had a couple surgeries at the end of last year.  So I haven't played great yet.  I'm playing fine.  I haven't got good results.  I'm starting to feel a little better and I got another 10 tournaments to try to play well in. 

Q.  If it came down to that, do I shoot at this last flag or do I hit it in the middle of the green to get my card.  Does that ever come into your mind.
CRAIG BARLOW:  Well, fortunately, like I said, this is my fifth year on Tour.  I lost my card twice and kept it twice.  And both times I lost it I really was going to have to play great the last tournament and didn't.  And both times I kept it, I made cuts and just didn't do much.  So I never really, I've never, even though I have been close to the number, I've never really had to make a putt or make birdie or make a good par to keep my card.  I mean I could have missed -- I mean I missed the last eight tournaments last year.  And kept my card.  So it wasn't like -- I was about a 100th on the Money List with two months to go.  And I didn't know, I didn't know if it was going to keep my card or not.  But I knew that I wasn't doing myself any good, I was in a lot of pain at the end of last year.

Q.  Was that an injury?
CRAIG BARLOW:  I had a hip surgery and a shoulder surgery. 

Q.  When were those?
CRAIG BARLOW:  My hip surgery was September.  And my shoulder was November.  My shoulder's bothered me forever.  Since I was a kid.  Left shoulder.  Right hip.  I was just going to say, yeah, I am on the bubble, you know, I have been in the past.  But I just, all you can do is play your best.  You have to -- yes, I would love to never have to think about that.  I feel like my game can get to that point.  It hasn't yet.  So. 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  All set?  Thanks, Craig, for joining us. 
CRAIG BARLOW:  Thank, guys. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT