BUICK INVITATIONAL
January 26, 2006
Craig Barlow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOHN BUSH:  We have Craig Barlow joining us, co leader, 6 under par 66.  Nice playing today.  If we could get some opening comments from you on your round went.
CRAIG BARLOW:  Very solid round, no bogeys.  Anytime I play a bogey free round I'm pleased.  I sprayed my driver around a little bit, but the course is short enough that I could get to the greens.  But I hit my irons well, putted well, had plenty of opportunities that a lot of them didn't fall, but overall I'm very pleased with the way I played.
JOHN BUSH:  Perfect conditions out there.  Just comment on the condition of the course.
CRAIG BARLOW:  Front nine there was no wind, soft greens.  You were just firing at them as close as you could get.  I birdied three of my first four holes and then birdied No. 8, turned at 4 under, and then just played solid on the back nine, birdied both par 5s.  Nothing special, but definitely good golf.
JOHN BUSH:  Take us through your birdies starting at No. 1.
CRAIG BARLOW:  1, knocked it on in two, two putted.

No. 2, drove it in the right enough, had 70 yards and hit a good shot in there about four feet.

No. 4, drove it in the left rough and hit a good shot to about 20 feet, and Mike Sposa putted right in front of me so I got the line and knocked that putt in.

And then 8, good drive down the middle, actually missed a little one on 6 for birdie, hit it about four feet and missed it.  But attitude stayed good; hit a good putt, just didn't go in.

Made about a 15 footer for birdie on 8 and two putted both the birdies on the back nine.
Q.  (Inaudible).
CRAIG BARLOW:  This is my third event, made both the cuts, had a bad Sunday    I mean, I made both cuts on the number, so I really haven't been in position to do anything.  But just trying to get my feet wet.  Had a good off season, had a good practice and haven't done anything special, but haven't played poorly yet, either.

Definitely probably the best signs of golf was today, though.
Q.  (Inaudible).
CRAIG BARLOW:  Yeah, I wasn't really spraying it as much as I was just missing some fairways.  The fairways are real tight out there.  The only defense that this North Course is having right now is the rough is up pretty good and the fairways are really tight.  Definitely the South Course you've got to play good golf.  I mean, I don't try to put a score on the South Course; I just want to execute.

Driving is probably the strength of my game, so I don't really stress out if I miss a few fairways because I know over time I'm going to drive the ball good.

I think the South Course is a good golf course for me.  I drive it straight, fairly long, and I generally play well on the tougher golf courses.
JOHN BUSH:  Craig, thanks very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT