BUICK OPEN
July 29, 2005
Craig Barlow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Talk about your round briefly today?
CRAIG BARLOW:  I started off slow.  I bogeyed my second hole and had eight pars on the front nine, which was not the way I really wanted to start off.  My caddie said to me, "It's 72 holes, you're going to go through that."  So I stayed patient and lo and behold I shot 30 on the back nine.  So that's a good lesson for me to learn, and hopefully just continue from that.

I had not made a birdie up until No. 11, and I made about a 20 footer there and 12, 13 and 14 is kind of where you need to do your scoring on this golf course.  I made a 10 footer for birdie on 12.

Played 13 beautiful, hit a driver, 4 wood about five feet and made eagle.

14, great drive on the front of the green and got it up and down.

Then made some nice    a par on 15 is very good, so I'm happy with that, and I haven't played that hole well in the past, so any time I can make par there, I'm happy.  And then didn't birdie 16 or 17 but birdied 18.
Q.  Inaudible?
CRAIG BARLOW:  Well, really, my whole round was    I played 11 through 14, 5 under, and I shot 5 under.  It's really hard to stay patient and trust that you have that ability to explode through a few holes like that.  It does happen.  Hopefully this is a good lesson for me to learn from.
Q.  Did that help, a pep talk from your caddie?
CRAIG BARLOW:  Yeah, I wasn't playing bad today.  It was just one of those, you know everybody is making birdies out there.  There were low scores yesterday and I shot 1 over on the front nine and you feel like you're being lapped.  The tendency is to try to force birdies, and that never works.  I was fortunate enough to start, you know, getting on a rhythm and made some birdies.  The lesson I would like to take to the weekend, not force birdies.  If there's going to be a shootout    I'm going to try to stay patient and just play my game and obviously, I proved that at any given time, it can change.
Q.  Second place right now, do you look forward to being in the final group with Vijay?
CRAIG BARLOW:  Absolutely.  I've played with Vijay a few times, he's great.  Obviously one of the best players in the world, so that's what it's all about, getting in the last group with one of the last players in the world.

But the afternoon guys have not played yet and who knows, there will probably still be some low scores.  I want to be in the last group on Sunday.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT