DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 16, 2018
Sam Horsfield
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What was the big turnaround from day one to day two for you score-wise?
SAM HORSFIELD: Hit it a lot better today.  If you can hit it good off the tee out here, you can be really aggressive with your irons.  The first eight holes, nine holes, I was really hit something good iron shots in there close and I made a few good putts there.  It was nice to finish up birdie, birdie.
Q. How sweet does that feel to finish birdie, birdie, using it as momentum into tomorrow?
SAM HORSFIELD: Yeah, it was huge.  I hit kind of a bad second shot on 16.  Hit it in the water.  Then I got up-and-down for bogey.  Me and my caddie were walking off the green, like that's huge, that's momentum.  I wanted to pick up one on the last two and ended up picking up two which is huge for tomorrow.
Q. You've been putting in some great performances in the European Tour, British Masters obviously.  There was a little incident in Turkey and you came out and addressed it in social media, a lot of respect from everyone in the golfing world for coming out and acknowledging it; standing over the ball and just trouble seemingly taking the club away.  Can you explain what the issue was, and how you're still able to produce some of the golf you have been?
SAM HORSFIELD: Yeah, well, it's a good thing I can still play golf.  I think I'm one of the fastest putters out here.  I still have this little issue going on, and I'll openly admit it's a little problem and I'm working to fix it.
But a lot of people, I woke up to like 96 Twitter notifications and I felt it was right for me to address it and say that I'm not doing it on purpose and I'm not doing it to affect my playing opponents and partners.  All those guys understand.  I saw Danny Tweeted back to me, and that people just wish they were doing what I was doing, playing golf at 22 years old against the best players in the world.
It's a little problem I have, but it is what it is, and you know, like I said, thank God I can still play golf doing it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT