BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2018
Sam Horsfield
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Thoughts on that today?  
SAM HORSFIELD: Yeah, it was playing really tough out there.  The wind around here got really swirly and Rory, I think Rory might have struggled with the wind, too.  We sort of talked about it, and it was tough out there.   
Obviously 17 and 18 are great opportunities, and I chipped in on 17 and then hit a great wedge shot on 18.  It was nice to come back and looking forward to tomorrow.   
 Q.  Three birdies in four holes is an ideal way to finish on this golf course, where you can be aggressive.  
SAM HORSFIELD: Yeah, the birdie on 15, I told my caddie after that, it was probably one of the top 5 birdies I ever made.  I ripped driver and then ripped 5-iron in to 20 feet and made a good, bending putt.   
Chipping in on 17 was nice.  It was a little right-to-left downhill so just landed in my spot and went in.   
And obviously 18, I had a good number, 89 to the pin and landed five, six shot and hit a good shot.  Looked like it had a chance to go in.  I'm happy with the finish.   
 Q.  First year on The European Tour.  How pleasing is it that you're going into contention on the final day of a big tournament like the BMW PGA?  
SAM HORSFIELD: It's great.  I'm looking forward to tomorrow.  I don't know what the weather is like but it's playing tough out there and anything can happen.  You've just got to get on a good roll.  Like I said before, I feel really confident in my putter.  I just have to hit a few more greens and give myself some more opportunities tomorrow.   
 Q.  What was it like playing with Rory, massive galleries, of course.  Was it a slightly daunting proposition?  
SAM HORSFIELD: No, I told my caddie, it's probably the most comfortable I've felt on the golf course.  Rory is a great dude.  We had a great time.  We talked about pretty much everything.  It was a lot of fun, to come out and birdie the first hole was pretty nice and then was a little wobbly there in the middle, but I look back on 18 tee and there was just a sea of people and it was like probably the most people I've ever seen in a place in my life.   
It's pretty cool to play with someone like that and looking forward to hopefully playing with him again in the future.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT