BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2018
Sam Horsfield
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Once again, it was the back nine where you were most fruitful with another three birdies in a row and a nice little run going?
SAM HORSFIELD: Yeah, like I said on the back nine, you can get it going out here.  I hit a good -- made a good birdie on the par 4, 13, I think it is, and then hit a good 7-iron in there on the par 3, 14, like 20 feet right under the hole and I got a lie from the guy I was playing with and it was straight uphill and played that one.
I had a little wobble coming in on 17.  I misjudged the lie, but all in all it was a good day.
Q. There won't be too many people going bogey-free around here.  It's that kind of golf course and all about the very fine margins sometimes, isn't it?
SAM HORSFIELD: Yeah, it's not the widest of golf courses off the tee so you can definitely get yourself in trouble, the big trees.  But you can make birdies out here, as the guys have shown.  The conditions are soft with the rain yesterday and you can go flag hunting, and I think it's going to become a putting contest coming down to Sunday.  I feel really comfortable with my putter right now, so, yeah, looking forward to it.
Q. Coming through Q-School, seeing your name at the top of the leaderboard with the likes of Rory McIlroy, must feel like a dream come true for yourself, in this big event and the Rolex Series, as well?
SAM HORSFIELD: Yeah, I think any time you're playing on the weekend and you're up there near Rory, I think you're going to be doing pretty well.  I'm just looking forward to tomorrow, whether I be playing with Rory or whoever I end up playing with, I'm going to go out there and give it my all.
Q. In terms of ranking points, it would be good to get a good finish with the points that are available in your first season?
SAM HORSFIELD: Yeah, I'm trying not to think about that too much.  The golf course is really good for me and I like the way it is.  You know, just sort of keep playing my game and let everything else take care of itself.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT