U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2016
Sam Horsfield
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SAM HORSFIELD: Yeah, I guess so.  I'm just going to go out there and play my game and see what happens.
Q. What did you learn about yourself and particularly how you play against Dylan in match play last week?
SAM HORSFIELD: Well, first of all, it's a completely different golf course, you know, so I'm just going to take it as it is.  I can't control what he does, and I'm just going to play my own game and see what happens.
Q. Does this golf course fit you better than last week?
SAM HORSFIELD: Well, it's hard to say that because I played so good last week, but this golf course is a bit longer and a bit softer.  You need to be a little bit more aggressive.  But at the end of the day, you still have to shoot the lowest you possibly can, and that's what I'm going to try to do this afternoon.
Q. Talk about your match today.  How big was it to close him out early?
SAM HORSFIELD: Yeah, you know, obviously my main goal was to win, and then I think I was 3-up at the turn and I just kept pressing.  Just going to get some momentum for the afternoon.  I think I shoot 6-under on the front nine, so I've been playing really well lately, and hopefully it continues later on.
Q. What was working for you that you go out in 29 or the equivalent of 29?
SAM HORSFIELD: I mean, I didn't even know that until you just told me.  I think he shot 2-under on the front nine, and this golf course is not easy.  So 2-under is pretty solid.  I just kind of felt like I had to keep pressing, trying to make a few birdies.  I made a good putt on 9 from like 30 feet up the hill.  I felt like the first couple holes I was a little bit off, so I hit a couple shots right, but then after that I kind of got into the rhythm of it.  It is what it is, and I just played my game.
Q. You've gone low before in Orlando Amateur and the APL qualifier.  Did you have that same kind of feel on the front?
SAM HORSFIELD: To be honest with you, I didn't even know what I shot.  I was just talking to my caddie about it coming down 12 fairway or something like that.  You know, so it's match play, it doesn't matter what I shoot as long as I beat the other guy.  That's the name of the game.  That's what I'm going to try to do this afternoon.
Q. How many putts did he give you on the front?
SAM HORSFIELD: Well, he made birdie on 1.  I had like 20 feet.  I hit it to like a foot.  2, I made birdie.  3, I made like a 60-footer for birdie.  4, he gave me like a two-footer.  5, I made birdie.  6, I made eagle.
Q. How did you make the eagle?
SAM HORSFIELD: They moved the tees up, and it was like a perfect driver, and I hit it like 20 feet just right of the pole, and I hit probably like a two-foot breaking putt, after he just hit a really good flop shot from off of the green.  7 I had to finish.  8 I had to finish.  And 9 I made like a 30-footer.
Q. Pretty accurate 29?
SAM HORSFIELD: Yeah, I'd say so.
Q. How long have you known Bill?  I know you guys have known each other a few years.
SAM HORSFIELD: Yeah, we never used to be like -- I knew him to say hi to him and stuff like that, but at the Western Am we kind of got closer.  You know, he's a good guy, and I'm looking forward to this afternoon.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT