U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2014
Sam Horsfield
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Good for the Match Play; what was the difference today?SAM HORSFIELD: I had a stretch through the middle of the round, 15 and 16.  I just hit a couple bad shots.  I made double on the par 3, and then bogeyed the next hole.  So there's 3-over in two holes.  Just hit a couple bad shots. But I hung in there pretty good I thought.  I could have let it go pretty easy after that but just hung in there pretty good, and match play.Q. Did you come into today saying, I've got a little bit of cushion to deal with?  Or did you just try to keep the focus?SAM HORSFIELD: I kept trying to play like I played yesterday.  Obviously I didn't play as good.  Like I said earlier, I made mistakes. But you know, it was nice to have a cushion where when I hit it in the water on 15, I wasn't really -- I was mad, but I wasn't too -- I don't really know how to explain it, like I wasn't too frustrated.  It was kind of more like a bad shot instead of -- yeah, you kind of know what I'm saying.Q. Was there a point in the round where you said to yourself, it's obviously not going as well as it did yesterday; I've just got to find a way to get it through.SAM HORSFIELD: Yeah, it was a grind today.  I made a couple good up-and-downs.  I made a great one on 2.  Hit it long left in a bunker up against the back slope on this downslope to a back pin and made a great up-and-down and hit it to six feet and made the putt. That was kind of a huge putt right there to keep me -- I think I was 4-under at that point for the tournament, kind of kept me there.  3-under is kind of cutting it close.  I think the cut is probably going to be 1-over.  There's a couple tough holes coming down the stretch on the front nine, so that was a huge one right there.Q. Disappointing to kind of quote, unquote, lose the lead?SAM HORSFIELD: It would have been flies to be medalist, but obviously I didn't come here to go ahead medalist for stroke play.  But match play time, you know, anything can happen in match play and I'm looking forward to it.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT