U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2014
Sam Horsfield
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Let's go back to earlier in the round.  9, I think you hit it six feet?  SAM HORSFIELD: Yeah, six feet.  It was a good number with the 8-iron from 78, a little downwind, just a solid 8-iron.  I was like six feet under the hole.  Just right edge putt and knocked it in, and that kind of kickstarted my round and birdied 10 and 11, I think.   Q.  Anything special on those birdies?  SAM HORSFIELD: No, I just hit one close on 10 to like four feet, and then 11 I hit it to 20 feet.  Another one like that curler.  13, the par-5, I had 4-iron in and hit it a little long left, just left of the bunker.  Pretty easy chip, hit it like three feet past and then went in.  I was kind of hoping I could hit it on the fairway so I could go for it, but pulled my drive in the left rough to lay up.  Hit gap wedge, sand wedge, and that was a first for me, I had never done that before, hit gap wedge sand wedge, so it was a nice putt, so...   Q.  Did you know what was going on here as far as low round of the day?  SAM HORSFIELD: I saw the scores when I made the turn.  I saw that someone shot 67.  So I was trying to beat it, but at the same time, I wasn't trying to do anything stupid and go for stupid shots.  So I just hit it towards the center of the greens and just made a few putts.   Q.  Was there any hole where you had to make a par that kept the round going?  SAM HORSFIELD: I made a great up-and-down on 6, I think, it's the par-3.  Hit it long left of the back pin, terrible shot, double crossed the cut, and that was on the down slope.  I had to sweep a nice little flop shot up there to two feet, and that was kind of like a good save right there.   Q.  You've played in so many of these, when you shoot a number in the first round, what does that do to your mindset as far as qualifying goes?  SAM HORSFIELD: Well, I just kind of ease into it now.  Hopefully, I won't have to worry about the cut tomorrow.  I don't know what the cut is at right now.  I haven't looked at anything.  But hopefully I can just go out there tomorrow and play towards the center of the greens, don't do anything stupid.  And now I don't have to hit at pins like I would if I was close to the cut line.   Q.  Does being a medalist mean something to you?  SAM HORSFIELD: It's nice, but it's not what I came here to do.  Obviously, it would be nice to be a medalist, but if I'm not, it's whatever.   Q.  A lot of players are talking about how this companion course is pretty strong as the ones they've played in amateur events.  How does it rank in the way you see it?  SAM HORSFIELD: I didn't play last year.  I didn't play the U.S. Am last year.  But the one year before that, Cherry Hills, Common Ground was the course.  So it was pretty -- I don't know.  I thought it was pretty easy.  I don't remember it that much, but I thought it was pretty easy.  This course is pretty narrow off the tee.  A lot of fairway bunkers to the right and left, and if you miss it the other way of where the fairway bunker is you're in trees, so you have to have your fairway driver on around here.  I just switched drivers last week, so I'm hitting it good.   Q.  What do you think about the Highlands because obviously you've practiced there?  SAM HORSFIELD: Yeah, it's a different animal.  It's pretty tough.  Especially 15, 16, 17, and the front nine is no bargain either.  You've got two I think 515, par-4, so it's pretty hard.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT