NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 28, 2009
Dan Craig
Don Renzulli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   DON RENZULLI: ...the last couple of days with the storm we had last weekend, so we'll start to concentrate and watch weather now as we go into the game day.
 Spectator Plaza got underway this morning over in the parking lot in Brookline so when we got here at the 7:00 a.m., trucks were already lined up and tents were already up, and so that's underway and we'll be ready to go at New Year's Eve at 11:00. And I think pretty much everything is in line. It's on schedule from where we are.
 DAN CRAIG: It's a waiting game. As you noticed last night, if anybody was watching the NBC football game, you saw Mike Milbury skating, and immediately after, we cleaned up the ice and painted the white, and then worked through the night on the hockey ice markings. And we were going to do those, but Mother Nature decided that she wanted us to wait a little bit longer, so we are kind of waiting out this little squall that's coming through here.
 Weather is very unpredictable and we take our shot when we can and get our markings down, get our logos down, and hopefully by ten o'clock tonight, all of those will be in and sealed up and be ready for what comes next, which means game day is right around the corner.

 Q. Dan, what's the condition of the ice now with the weather being so warm recently and the rain today?
 DAN CRAIG: It's wet. Yeah, we are in good shape as of yet. We had solid rain yesterday. It took us probably an extra four hours to set it up last night. We were solid by 6:00, so we are anticipating about the same thing today.
 Hopefully the rain will back off somewhere between two and three and probably by 6 o'clock tonight, they will be froze up solid so we will be able to get logos hopefully start right around 6:00 and be done by 10:00.

 Q. You talked about the weather report, just how close do you have to start reacting to it, and what exactly are you guys hearing about the weather for Friday as well?
 DON RENZULLI: It changes daily. Yesterday we were expecting one to two inches today. That didn't happen. We were expecting 50 percent chance of snow on game day, and now it's looking like rain and about 37. I guess I'm used to just waiting a day or so because it will change. We will see what happens, and we will adjust to it in the next couple of days and through the nights.

 Q. Rain like this on a game day ??
 DAN CRAIG: Our No. 1 focus is player safety and fan safety, patron safety coming in, that's our No. 1, and that's what we look at, that's why we look at the weather and that's why we try to figure out exactly what we are going to be doing on the operation side, making sure the ice is safe and what's going to be happening to the people coming to the venue. So we have meetings every day. In fact, we probably have three or four meetings every day, and weather is No. 1 topic, and just read and react and see where we go. 
 THE MODERATOR: Just a couple quick announcements. If anybody didn't get it, there's a media schedule of events out on the press table. We will have another media briefing tomorrow. The access times are the same, 1:00 to 3:00. And there's a media welcome reception tomorrow night, if you haven't responded, e?mail Kerry McGovern, kmcgovern@nhl.com.And also following on Wednesday, we will have a media skate at two o'clock. Again, if you haven't RSVP'ed for that and you would like to, e?mail Kerry.
 And also there's a Bruins/Flyers alumni hot stove discussion. We have about a half a dozen alumni that will participate in a hot stove discussion talking about the rivalry between the Bruins and the Flyers in the EMC Club, and that will take place right after the media skate.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT