CBS ELITEXC MEDIA CONFERENCE
May 13, 2008
Gina Carano
Gary Shaw
Kaitlin Young
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT











 GARY SHAW: Thank you everyone for joining with us on this call on this inaugural event. We're all very excited. Mitch said it basically all. Primetime, May 31, 9:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time from the Prudential Center in New Jersey is an historic card. It doesn't only mean lot to EliteXC but it should mean a lot to all the fighters that are fighting for us on that night. And more importantly than that it's huge step for mixed martial arts. It brings the sport to the forefront so that people no longer think of it as a barbaric sport but as a real sport with fighters, with real disciplines that train hard, that are professional athletes. And we at EliteXC are honored to be putting on a women's fight. And those that have watched our SHOWTIME fights know about Gina Carano and what we have meant to Gina here at EliteXC and what Gina has meant to EliteXC, and more importantly that Gina became the face of women's mixed martial arts. So today we're honored to have Gina with us on this call and Kaitlin Young. I'd like to turn it over first to Gina to say opening remarks.
 GINA CARANO: What's up guys. I just wanted to say I am extremely honored to be fighting on the CBS card, and I think it speaks leagues for how far women have come in the sport. And I'm extremely honored to be fighting Kaitlin Young. I think it's one of the best match-ups I've ever had. So I'm looking forward to the fight. I am a little depressed because "American Gladiators" ratings kind of plummeted a little bit. (Laughing). I'm just excited to get back in the ring and focus on what my passion has been in my life and that's been fighting. So I'm super stoked on this fight, and I'm anticipating a tough one. My training has been pumped up for this last, you know, two weeks. But I had a little a side shot with "American Gladiators" so we're going to see how I perform with this crunch-time training. But I'm expecting a good fight, and I'm excited about it. And this is going to be awesome. I'm really honored to be on this inaugural event. So there we go. 
 GARY SHAW: Thank you very much, Gina. Before I introduce Kaitlin to say a few words, just want to say that we always had confidence in women fighting. It's just that Gina led the way for us. But we have other fine women that fight for our organization. And it's been my feeling all along that women should be treated as equals. If they can go to war, they sure can fight in mixed martial arts. And we're proud to have Gina on this card. We're proud to have Kaitlin. It's going to be a very, very good match. It's going be a very tough match. But more than anything else, the world will be able to see two professional athletes that can really fight. So without further adieu, Kaitlin, would you like to say some opening remarks.
 KAITLIN YOUNG: Definitely. I'm with Gina for sure. I'm very honored to be fighting on the CBS card and fighting her as well. I think it's going to be a great match-up, great stylistic match-up. That's kind of the beauty of our sport is that styles make fights. I really think this will be a great one. Training's been going very well. I had a lot of notice for this fight so I've been lucky to be able to put in more time for this one than ever before. So I'm really excited about that. I'm really excited to be representing women's MMA for the first time. It's going to be seen by such a large crowd. I think a lot of people don't realize that there's so many women fighters out there because they aren't featured in the UFC and, fortunately, Elite is there to showcase women's fighting and it's great honor to be part of it.
 GARY SHAW: Thank you very much. I also want to say thank you as always to Ken Hirschman from SHOWTIME who had the real foresight with Matt Blank to be able to put mixed martial arts on a premium cable network. And certainly that he allowed us to put Gina on. And I'm sure Gina remembers that day when Ken gave us the okay. And, obviously, to all the powers that be at CBS for allowing us to bring our product on to the airwaves of CBS. We're very, very respectful for that opportunity. It is a wonderful opportunity for all our fighters and for mixed martial arts. So thank you to CBS. And also a special thank you to Rock Star and to Burger King, two of our sponsors that will be sponsoring the event on CBS. So anybody that knows me knows I eat a lot of Burger Kings. So without that, John, let's throw it over for questions to the girls .

 Q. I have a question for each lady. Gina and Kaitlin, what weight are you guys fighting at? 
 KAITLIN YOUNG: This fight's at 140.

 Q. Gina, you said you think this will be your best fight yet. Can I get in your own words why you think this will be your best fight yet? 
 GINA CARANO: I just think it's an awesome match-up. So I think it's a great opponent. So I think that I'm definitely somebody who fights better with somebody better in front of me. So I think that's why it's going to be an awesome fight.

 Q. Are you referring that you are both stand-up fighters? 
 GINA CARANO: I am referring to that I think she is a good fighter in general. And I'm sure she has been practicing a lot underground. So I am not going to count her as a stand-up fighter; I am going to count her as a complete fighter, MMA fighter. I think she is an aggressive fighter. I just think it's going to be a really good match-up for me, and I think it's going to make for an awesome fight.

 Q. Kaitlin, you said you had a little bit of notice for this fight, more notice than Gina did I thought? Can you clarify that and how much notice did you have for the fight? 
 KAITLIN YOUNG: I don't think I necessarily had more notice than Gina did. But at first I had heard it was rumored that they might ask if I would like to take the fight with Gina for this card, and that was a while ago. I wanted to say I had probably a good nine weeks where I suspected that I would be taking this fight. So I've been training very hard since then.

 Q. I'll start with Gina. I've got a couple questions for you, then I'll get to Kaitlin. Gina, your preparation as you mentioned, maybe not exactly what you wanted. Is there anything that concerns you heading into this one that maybe you haven't covered in preparation? 
 GINA CARANO: You know, yeah, I wish I would have had nine weeks completely to focus on it like Kaitlin. But there's not going to be any excuses. I just chose to do "American Gladiators" and take my time away from it. So am I concerned? No. I feel more mentally clear than I've probably ever felt in my life. So I think that going in there is going to help me out leaps and bounds. But, yeah, I think I'm good. I think I'm confident. I'm good. I've gotten, you know, the next two weeks to kind of sharpen everything up and I'm ready to fight.

 Q. Are you surprised by the level of attention you're getting? I mean I know you have the gladiator show but this is broadcast television, MMA debut on that. Are you sort of, I don't want to say overwhelmed, but cognizant of the fact that this is the big time? 
 GINA CARANO: You know, I kind of live in my own world anyway. So I kind of -- I don't feel things the same way other people might feel in this kind of situation. I'm very good at keeping a good head about me and not buying into the hype and really looking at things for what they are. And so I know who I am and where I am at in my career. And I'm not surprised at all that females are starting to get attention in the sport because it seems like, you know, it's well deserved. We put on great fights all around the country, all around the world. Fights that people walk away from a show and if there's one fight, that's the fight they're talking about. So I think females getting attention is awesome and it's well deserved. The attention I get I kind of -- I don't buy into the hype. I know I am 5-0 in MMA. I don't listen to what everybody says about me I just kind of know who I am and keep my head about me. I think that's one reason why people might like me.

 Q. Gina, do you know where you are on the card in terms of the sequence? 
 GINA CARANO: No. No, I don't.

 Q. They haven't established that yet? If the bout goes the distance do you think that favors you or Kaitlin? 
 GINA CARANO: You know, I think this fight could go either way and I'm planning it on favoring me. But really it's -- we're pretty, I think, equal in our stand-up. And I think we're -- I don't know about her ground game or how far it's coming in the last nine weeks. But I'm expecting a pretty equal match-up. As soon as I get in that cage with her then I'll be able to kind of gauge where we're at.

 Q. First question I have for Gina. Gina, you've had relatively long layoff from fighting. Obviously you have been busy with the seasons of the "American Gladiators". How are you going to sort of catch up not so much on the conditioning but getting back in fighting shape and honing your technique with the short time you have? 
 GINA CARANO: Man, I've been fighting, you know, in a different way outside the ring for the last nine months. So I think it's going to be pretty refreshing just to get in there and get physical. I'm not worried about it at all. I'm really looking forward to it. I'm a better -- I'm better at being physical. I'm better at using my body. I'm better at fighting than I am really at doing any of the other entertaining or, you know, press conferences or I'm better at using my body and using my physical ability and natural instincts. So it's going to be refreshing. Because, you know, fighting outside the ring is not an easy thing. At least when you are in the cage you know who is throwing the punches you know. (Laughing).

 Q. Since your opponent is known more as a stand-up fighter, do you want to give us a hint, do you want to keep it standing or go to the ground or are you going to be ready for anything? 
 GINA CARANO: You know, I think game plan is something that I probably like to keep a little bit more private. Because, you know, I'm not going to give it away to her right now. I'm not going to tell her exactly what I'm going to do. So we're just going to keep that under wraps.

 Q. And, Kaitlin, similar thing, could you tell us about your ground game? The because again you are known more as a stand-up fighter. Your last fight you lost by a submission. And Gina won her last fight by submission. How is your ground game developing? 
 KAITLIN YOUNG: I feel that it's coming on very well. I've done a couple of grappling tournaments. I try to hit those up when I can in between fights to sort of work on the ground game against people of equal size and weight and skill level. And I try to do as many divisions as possible just for experience. Because it doesn't go on the record. So it's kind of nice. And I've had some submission victories at grappling tournaments. So I'm feeling pretty confident about the fact that my ground game has improved quite a bit since my last fight.

 Q. Last thing is for Gary. Gary, as you know both UFC and mixed martial arts and HBO and boxing thus far have refused to book and air women's fights in their sports. Tell us why you decided to have a women's fight on this first show on CBS which obviously is very important. 
 GARY SHAW: The same reason I thought we should have a women's fight on the first show ever that we did on Show Time. Because I think there are women out there that train hard that have the skills that in my mind are professional athletes. And if we are willing to put women into war where they can get killed for sure by real bullets and protect us and protect our country, why shouldn't they have the same right if they're training hard to be seen by the American public? Just because they're females? I don't believe in that. And my faith in Gina, my faith in putting women on the card, and we've had some great women on the card, and Gina's fights have all been competitive, and Gina said it before in the a lot of ways the fights she's been in have been some of the most exciting fights that we've presented. So I am proud to stand behind the women that fight for us at EliteXC. I'm proud that our match making team has put together the right type of fights. And not only do we have these two Young ladies that will be fighting on May 31st we have others that are waiting in the wings behind them that are equally skilled and ready to go. And I think at the end of the day you will all be writing the next day about the great fight between these two, you know, athletes and warriors.

 Q. Kaitlin, I didn't get a chance to ask you, the first primetime network broadcast mixed martial arts and as a woman standing atop, you know, the battleground like that, what's that mean to you? 
 KAITLIN YOUNG: You know, like I said in my entrance statement, it's such an honor. It really is a great honor. And I do feel a tremendous obligation to perform well and represent female fighters well.

 Q. You're getting the ground background. Are you getting more comfortable to where, you know, you feel okay standing up, okay being down, getting after it? 
 KAITLIN YOUNG: Yeah, I'm feeling much better on the ground. Obviously, it's not as natural as stand-up feels to me. I don't know if it ever will be. But, you know, I'm work on trying to become the same level on the ground as I am standing up.

 Q. You feel okay going toe to toe with Gina? 
 KAITLIN YOUNG: Yeah. I'm really excited for that. You know, I know she beat Tanya with a submission which is awesome for her to transition like that, but it's hard to say-- I haven't seen much of her other than that fight. So I think it will be really interesting if this goes to the ground.

 Q. I asked her the same question. If it goes the distance, does that favor you or her? 
 KAITLIN YOUNG: It's hard to say. I think it's going to be a really good fight. She's tough and she's very athletic. So I think it could go other way. Obviously I'm going to do everything in my power to make it go my way. But I can't give a sure fire prediction on that one.

 Q. I'd like to start with a question for Gina. I'm sure you've got a lot going on right now doing media for, you know, both shows and trying to get ready for the fight also. How do you keep focus on the task at hand? 
 GINA CARANO: I'm crazy. (Laughing). No actually for the last three weeks I was suppose to go to New York for a promotional tour for "American Gladiators" and I just finally laid it down to them. I was like I can't do it. I got to just stay at home and kind of train and get my mind right. So I'm not even doing that many, you know, fight interviews. I'm kind of just detoxing from the public eye for a second. Then I'm training and just getting my mind straight for the fight. Because that's most important for pee. I would have like to do it sooner. But I've got a beautiful life and I'm just surprised as far as I've gotten so far. So I'm just going to stay positive and go for it you know. I'm balancing it out. I've got a good head on my shoulders. I'm able to just cut everything off when I need to.

 Q. With this show being on CBS, do you look at this fight any differently from a prestige standpoint? Or are you approaching it the same as every other fight? 
 GINA CARANO: A fight's a fight. And once you get in the cage, everything goes away any ways and it's just you against that person. So, you know, we can only do the best we can do. Me and Kaitlin both we've had about the same amount of fights and we've both got brought up in the sport pretty fast. So we're going to put on a good fight. Just because I know that's what we're both made out of. So I'm not even worried about that. But as far as pressure or, you know, the level of the show, you know, we can only do what we can do. And I think if we just be ourselves which we both will be, you know, I think the public will really, really love it and be drawn to it and want to see more of it. So, you know, I'm cool. I just try to appreciate and be honored that I get this opportunity and I'm so happy that Elite has put me out there the way they have and taken a chance on me, and I'm appreciative of what they're doing for women in the sport. I'm just going to keep doing my thing because that's really all I can do.

 Q. Gina, if there's been one prevailing criticism of you it's that you have had trouble making weight. How do you respond to that criticism? And do anticipate it being a problem for May 31st? 
 GINA CARANO: Oh yes, the weight. No. You know, I respond to it like this. Never has a fight not happened because of me not making weight. Unless one does, then, you know, then I don't have anything to be ashamed of. I do cut weight. I get down -- I'm not very good dehydrated so I walk into these weighins not looking so hot sometimes. But, you know, it's 23409 going to be a problem for May 31st when I am in surprisingly good shape to where I am at right now. And I feel great. And I'm just -- I'm strong and I'm ready to go. So, no, it shouldn't be a problem and we'll just see how it goes. And I'll just keep on, you know, in my career trying to get more professional and trying to get down faster. Try to lay off the raviolis a little bit more. (Laughing).

 Q. Now a couple questions for Kaitlin. Kaitlin, what do you think a win over Gina Carano on May 31st would mean for your career? Because as it's been discussed she is a pretty big star right now. 
 KAITLIN YOUNG: Yeah, I think obviously it would give me career a boost. I think just having this fight regardless of the outcome really does either way. But obviously a win would do the that much more for it.

 Q. What are your thoughts on the state of women's MMA right now and in particular its potential to grow? 
 KAITLIN YOUNG: I think it has great potential to grow. I think some of the women who have been in MMA for awhile aren't particularly happy with the state of things right now. But I think it's a very, very good time for women just gettinging into the sport. Because it's growing so fast.

 Q. Are you willing to elaborate at all on what other women fighters might be unhappy about? 
 KAITLIN YOUNG: You know, I don't want to speak for, put words into anybody's mouth, but I think the general feeling is there aren't as many high-profile opportunities for female fighters that have been in an a long time. And require a higher payday because of that. That's just the feeling I get from them.

 Q. Lastly, just have a couple questions for Gary. Gary, do you have plans to add to the women's roster at any time? 
 GARY SHAW: We are continually adding to the women's roster. We do have a women's division. And we do like women fighting for us. And we're going to continue to put them on CBS. We're going to continue to put them on SHOWTIME and on our show XC shows as well. So yes Shayna Baszler is on the roster. We have other women on the roster. And I know that the fight team and Jeremy Lappin are working hard to make additions to the women's roster. And we have signed a couple in the last few weeks. So, yes, I think we're going to feature women's fighting. If nobody else wants to do it, then that's all the better for us. It's not better for the women, but it's certainly better for EliteXC.

 Q. Do you have any specific guideline for how many women you would like to have on the roster eventually? 
 GARY SHAW: As many as can fight, just like the men. If we find the women that we find are exciting fighters and we put them on shows that excite the fans, both on television and in arena, then we'll keep continuing to add to them. You know, there's no -- we don't have a limit. It's not, well, okay, we're going to have ten women, two weight classes and that's it. Not at all. If the women can fight, if they can fight like Gina can fight and hoping Kaitlin Young can fight, Shayna Baszler has fought and others that have fight for us, they can fight like that then we're signing them.

 Q. Now the last question. Is there any plan for an EliteXC women's title in the near future, say the next year? 
 GARY SHAW: Yes we're talking about two things. We're talking about a women's title and we're also talking about an all women's show where we feature one night of just all women's fight. 
 GINA CARANO: That would be cool.
 GARY SHAW: Thank you very much. I hope you'll back us. That's something that I'd like to present to the public, a night of women's fights. And I think that would be a major milestone. I think it would be good for the sport add good for women I. Think Kaitlin said, there are a lot of women out there that are unhappy. Not with us, because we're the pioneers. And we're putting our talk not just coming out of our mouth, we're acting on it. And with the help of CBS and the help of SHOWTIME we'll continue. So I would think in '09 that you should look for an all women's show.

 Q. Gina, I spoke to you a couple weeks ago and you mentioned that, you know, it wasn't in the most favorable situation, "American Gladiators"and the fight coming up. Now with just a couple weeks before the fight, do you regret at all putting so much on your plate when you didn't really have to? You had the "American Gladiators" thing already, or have you been able to juggle both gigs at the same time pretty well? 
 GINA CARANO: No, I don't regret it at all. You know, would it have been nice to just sit there and focus on just to fight, yeah. But that's not the reality of it. So I just, you know, I focus on the fact that I got a beautiful life and I'm going to go do something that I really love to do in a couple weeks here against Kaitlin Young. And I'm living out my dream right now. So it would have been nice to focus on it more especially since I think it's just going to be such a difficult fight. But, no, let's just do this man. Then let's look back and see how I do and then make improvements from there, you know. Definitely for the next fight I'm sure I will have another fight sometime this year and that one's definitely getting all my attention. I can't wait for that, you know, lifestyle and that feeling to coming back. You know, because really training for a fight and spending so much time and getting in the mental state is the best part about it almost. So we'll see how I do and then look at it from there.

 Q. Has the taping completed for this season of "American Gladiators"? 
 GINA CARANO: Yeah, we've been done for about a week I think.

 Q. Now you are 100% solely focused on the fight? 
 GINA CARANO: Yeah, cut off all the media stuff and everything and pretty much just training man.

 Q. Tonight you are going to be featured on ESPN E60 and last week there was an article on ESPN the magazine, Kimbo Slice kind of a negative slant toward him. Should we expect any surprises or anything about the way that, you know, they'll report on you? Are you hoping for a positive piece? 
 GINA CARANO: I think it's going to be a realistic piece, you know. And I was completely myself and I spoke my mind. So I think that, you know, no matter what I was myself. So I'm not going to, you know, say it's going to be a negative piece. I think they did, you know -- I think there are a lot of other female MMA martial artists out there that have been in it a longer time than I have and they have bigger records. And so they're wondering why I'm where I'm at and why they aren't here. And I sympathize with them and I don't know why either. I think that, you know, EliteXC looked at me and saw something that maybe they could, you know, really build, and they saw talent. And people sign new talent all the time. And whether those females where they're like 12-0, I'm not sure if they really would want to fight me, my record being 3-0, and how accomplishing that would have felt for them if they would have beat me, or even if I would have won, how bad that would have felt for them. So I think that they did a couple interviews with a couple other female fighters that might bring up that kind of aspect of it, which, you know, they have all of the right in the world to. And I hope that we can get to see some of these females fighting and I hope I get to fight them. Now that I'm building up kind of a bigger record here. And I think it will be more of an equal match-up now.
 GARY SHAW: Let me just answer your question. The piece on Kimbo on E60 was not negative.

 Q. I meant EPSN the magazine. 
 GARY SHAW: The magazine, that was a negative article. I want to bring to your attention, and everybody's listening, the article started off by saying exactly this, Although I have never met Kimbo or spoken to Kimbo. I take those articles and I have three dogs here, they're very happy with those articles. So, you know, I can't respect someone who doesn't speak to an athlete, doesn't ininterview an athlete, and then just gives a one-sided slant on the story. That's not journalism.

 Q. Has anyone from ESPN contacted you to try to get your take on Kimbo or anything like that or has it been pretty quiet?
 GARY SHAW: They didn't understand why the piece came out. Kimbo has been very accessible to ESPN for E60 not only once but twice. And the first time for maybe at least three weeks. And he's gonna be on ESPN the magazine where they'll do an entire article on him. I think if you meet Kimbo and you speak to Kimbo it may not be the Kimbo that the journalist, or that writer, or that individual, I don't know what to call him, you know, really wrote about. And just like talking to Gina right now, if there's a woman fighter that doesn't like her or has negative things to say on the E60 piece that hasn't seen it yet, that's really unfair because they haven't spoke to Gina. So they don't really know Gina. And Gina didn't push anybody out of the way. She is not a bad girl. This wasn't some contest that she fixed to get on the air. It's that Gina was at the right place at the right time, someone told me about Gina. When they told me about Gina, I went after Gina. I happen to know her father as well. And so Gina was at the right place at the right time. And in Gina, when I met her I said to her immediately, You're going to be the women's face of mixed martial arts. On behalf of EliteXC, we delivered. On behalf of Gina, she delivered. So that's what it's all about. But, you know, like she said, she's in a tough, tough competition on May 31st. It's real fight with Kaitlin. And if she is successful and she wins, then she moves on. If she doesn't, she'll still move on. And those girls that have negative things to say, if they're in the right weight class they're going to have an opportunity, if they can fight. But just because someone's done it longer, doesn't mean they're the right person.

 Q. Gary, one quick question before I go. You now have this new pact agreement with Dream. Have they expressed any interest in having Gina fight for them on one of their cards in Japan? 
 GARY SHAW: Yeah, candidly, I haven't had long talks with them. We loaned them Nick Diaz this past week. They want to do more with us. They're starting to realize that we have athletes and that we have the fighters that we say that can really fight and we're one of the few organizations that are willing to go out there and work with other organizations. I am hoping that they will allow me to bring to them some of our greatest women fighters.

 Q. Thanks a lot. 
 GARY SHAW: Thank you.

 Q. This is Chris from Showtime. Just to clarify, and this is not about Kimbo either, but you know the overall negative article that was being referred to was mentioned that it was in the magazine. It wasn't. ESPN.com, page 2. The magazine is separate and we expect to be very positive coming out on June 21st. 
 GARY SHAW: Thank you, Chris. You are 100% right. That was more of a blog.

 Q. I want to start with Gina. It was mentioned before but let me ask you again. Do you feel any pressure fighting in front of a large audience on such a big stage? 
 GINA CARANO: No, I don't. Okay so it's kind of a different question actually. I'm a little bit shier of a person. So to put me out there -- I don't get nervous about fighting at all. Like fighting, that's the fun part, and I love that. Being in front of people and like a big audience, I've learned to get use to. But regardless, once you get hit it all goes away any ways. So I'm just planning on my natural instinct to, you know, kick in, and it will. So, no, I'm good. I'm keeping a level head.

 Q. Do you have any kind of a procedure or a method in which you try to relax before a fight? And if so what is that? 
 GINA CARANO: I like to dance a little. Dancing kind of shakes out the nerves a little. And I pray. I pray just for a peace and for God's will to be done. And whatever the outcome of the fight, just to have a peaceful feeling about it, you know. So yeah that's what I do.

 Q. You do the dancing the day off or the night before or the week of; how does that work? 
 GINA CARANO: (Laughing). Just right before I go in the ring just kind of shake out the nerves, dance the nerves out of my body.

 Q. And your dad having been a professional athlete, what are his thoughts on where you've progressed to this point? 
 GINA CARANO: He is just -- he's coming up like as a father and just completely stood behind me 100% and it's been a really beautiful thing. If anything out of my career, that has happened, and I really just -- my whole life he has trying to tell me go to school, become a lawyer, become a doctor, become something of importance. Then I go and become a professional fighter. It just kind of threw him off his seat for a second. But he's climbed back on and he is 100% behind me and it's the best feeling in the world.

 Q. Very nice. By the way we'd love to get new the ultimate grappling studio for a photo shoot to keep that in mind. 
 GINA CARANO: Okay.

 Q. You said earlier you were more mentally clear than you were before. What's different now than before? 
 GINA CARANO: I think what's different now is I have my confidence about me and I know who I am a little bit more than I ever have. And it's a really good feeling. Because, you know, at the beginning you just kind of get shove up there and, you know, you just trying to do everything to make everybody else happy. And now I've kind of realized I need to learn how to make myself happy and by doing that other people around me will be inspired through that. So I'm just kind of -- you, you know, I don't have myself complete yet but I am just at the cusp of grasping ahold of where I am at 26. I'm sure I've got a lot more to learn, but at least I've got at least kind of like a handle on it.

 Q. And a question for Gary. On May 31st, I believe it is, where will you watching the fight and who will you be with? 
 GARY SHAW: On May 31st, I'll be in that arena. I'll be at a table pressed against a cage. I'll have a monitor and at the start of the show I'll have a lot of goosebumps. And, as Gina said, my nerves will be rattled. And when the first fight takes place and the action starts I will shake it out.

 Q. You will be nervous prior to the beginning of the show? 
 GARY SHAW: For sure.
 GINA CARANO: You should try dancing. 
 GARY SHAW: (Laughing). Thanks, Gina.

 Q. What causes the nerves for you? 
 GARY SHAW: Well there's a lot of pressure. First of all, I care about the health, safety and welfare of all the fighters. So the single biggest thing in my mind is that not only do they have great fights but everybody comes out of the cage safe and healthy. So that's the first thing that's on my mind until the final fight is over with. The rest is that everything goes right. We have an areena experience to put on, we have a television show to put on, we have a lot of responsibility to all the athletes, and we have a lot of responsibility to all the people that support us. So there's a lot of pressure that nobody sees and nobody knows what's going on. And, you know, you think of everything from, God forbid, a problem with the cage to a problem with the camera to anything else that can go wrong. So for me personally I'm not at ease all through the night until it's over. And that's normally-- I don't go to parties. I'll go to a coffee shop or Denny's or something like that because it wipes you out. And those that work can understand how much it wipes you out.

 Q. How gratifying is it after the fact though? 
 GARY SHAW: Spectacular. It's a feeling that I wish I could transport to everybody around me. But it's -- not only the pressure off your shoulders but it's like your graduation. You made it; you got through it all. And then when you see all these fighters and the smiles and you see two fighters -- and I'm sure it will happen with Gina and Kaitlin-- they'll go at each other as hard as any athletes will fight to knock the other one out or submit them or put them to sleep, and then the final bell rings or the fight's over, any way it ends, and they'll just hug one another. I mean, there's something very special about the fighting game that's much different. You watch a hard fought tennis match, they walk to the net and they just about shake hands. I mean they don't even do that. Then golf, there's nothing. But in the fighting game where there's real physical contact and the winner is the one that does the most damage, it is just unbelievable that they will then go, men and women, and hug one another, embrace one another, and show that respect for one another. So for me personally watching that, it's just joyous. I mean, Gina was talking about her father who I said I know. In her last match he jumped up -- he is a big guy to start with. But he jumped up I thought he hit the top of the arena. And you see things -- (Lost audio connection to Gary Shaw.)

 Q. I have a question for all three of you so I guess the two fighters can answer it first. I'm interested in basically what the web strategy you have. Seems to be sort of a social networking thing. I am wondering while the fighters are on the line how often do you check this and what's that experience like for you? The EliteXC thing and you both have pages that are --
 GINA CARANO: Proelite.com. Go ahead, Kaitlin.
 KAITLIN YOUNG: I don't know. I'm on there -- I usually check it like maybe once a day once every two days. Sometimes I'll talk to people on there like about interviews or whatever. I don't know. I like to answer people's questions if they have them or whatever. If I have time. Sometimes I don't get around to it but I try to. 
 GINA CARANO: I haven't been on there for a while. But I will. I will go on there every once in a while like once every couple weeks. How about that.

 Q. You currently have 1,201 smacks. I only see 2 that says you smacking them. I'm not entirely up to the terminology so I guess that means messages from you. One was to Kelly Purdue you said get a life. 
 GINA CARANO: Oh yeah. I was actually sitting next to Kelly and he was teaching me how to smack at that time so he did that himself?

 Q. Is exciting for both of you to have that sort of interaction with fans?
 GINA CARANO: Yeah, it is. I wish I could actually respond to more because I really get some amazingly heart-felt messages on that site, proelite.com and my myspace. The problem with responding is if I do respond then people, you know, think that we have a relationship and then they start wondering why I don't write them back all the time, and they start writing to me all the time and it kind of gets hectic. So I usually don't respond to messages. But I want people to know that the I do read them and I appreciate them. I just can't respond because I never know who is the right message to respond to and who will just let me respond and be polite back. Because I get -- I got to watch out for some people out there.

 Q. On the internet? No. (Laughing). Kaitlin, do you also have a myspace page? 
 KAITLIN YOUNG: I do. Obviously, I don't have as many friends as Gina yet. But, yeah, she's right. Like some people you just have to start ignoring. If you respond to them they'll get upset that you don't respond back every time. But I'm on there as well.

 Q. Is Gary back on the line yet? 
 GINA CARANO: Apparently not. 
 JOHN BEYROOTY: We have a lot of people on this call waiting to ask questions but everyone, a lot of people know Gina's background. Kaitlin, in the cage you're best known for winning the Hook 'n Shoot tournament by stopping three opponents in one night I think in a combined 1:52 or 53 seconds. Wanted to know what the feeling was after you won that tournament by defeating the three girls in one night? Also, why don't you just give everyone on the call who don't know just a brief background of what you're about. We know you go to school, and what your major is and how you got involved in MMA. Just a little personal background then we'll go to the next question. 
 KAITLIN YOUNG: Sure. Well I started Olympic style Taekondo a long time ago. I was like 14. For those who don't know what it is, it's full contact but it's bascially above the waist. It's like boxing with your feet, is the best way I can describe it. I did that for a long time. Then I got started in (inaudible), amateur kick boxing, and made the switch to MMA this last year. Right now I'm student at the University of Minnesota studying kinesiology, which is exercise science if you are not familiar with that. I am going to be dropping down to part-time after this semester because it's too much with fight training I don't concentrate enough on school. So kind of be lightening the load a little bit there. And --
 JOHN BEYROOTY: What's your GPA? 
 KAITLIN YOUNG: I want to say around 3.0. 

 Q. My questions are for Gary Shaw. First I want to obviously commend you on working toward a women's title. Do you have any idea when you may launch that, and would there be two of them in two different weight classes? 
 GARY SHAW: There might be more depending on how many more women. I would think we would love to fight the winner of this fight for a title in the fall. So we would give the first women's title out sometime in the fall. And then other titles will depend on how many different weight classes we wind up with. But we'll have eventually wherever we have legitimate weight classes, legitimate amount of fighters that we're proud of, then we'll introduce a belt at that time. Not before.

 Q. So 140 would probably be your first one? 
 GARY SHAW: Yes.

 Q. Okay. You mentioned this fight may impact that. Do you -- I'm assuming then that Gina and Kaitlin, probably the winner of that fight wouldn't be fighting on the second CDS card in July but some other time? 
 GARY SHAW: Correct. I think that we've looked to bring these girls back probably somewheres around September.

 Q. You mentioned Rock Star and Burger King as sponsors. Are there going to be additional ones or are those the two main ones? 
 GARY SHAW: There are additional ones but the main sponsors right now are Burger King and Rock Star. But there are other sponsors on board already. There are two games, two gaming -- when I say "gaming" I'm talking about video type gaming.

 Q. Thank you. 
 GARY SHAW: Thank you very much.

 Q. Gina, I just wanted to follow-up with a question Denny had a few questions earlier with regards to the weight cutting process. My theory, since I'm female, is that the weight cutting process for women is different than it is for men in this sport. Correct me if I'm wrong, with "American Gladiators" finishing a week you are back at Extreme Couture in Las Vegas. 
 GINA CARANO: Yes.

 Q. I did watch "American Gladiators" last night and they listed your weight at 155 pounds, so is it a fair assumption you are working within a 15 pound range to cut this weight in the next couple weeks? 
 GINA CARANO: I'm thinking by the time I get to New Jersey it will probably be maybe a five or six weight cut, five or six-pound weight cut.

 Q. You and I have spoken about this before and I hope I'm not giving anything away but you say you actually enjoy the weight cutting process correct? 
 GINA CARANO: Well, you know, it's not that I really -- know it hit a point of complete exhaustion of complete I don't know emptiness. And you just don't care and you kind of enter this like euphoric state I guess. It can kind of be a dangerously addicting thing. And, you know, it's -- (lost audio connection to Gina Carano).

 Q. I just have one more question for Gary, if I may. 
 GARY SHAW: Don't make it hard.

 Q. I'll try not to, Gary. I just wanted to give you an opportunity to speak pubically. There's been a lot about since you guys are a pubically traded company and your public filing's coming out a lot of people have criticized the numbers and how much you guys have invested and spent in the last year in terms of the money that's coming back in or not coming back in in this case. So I just wanted to get your, give you an opportunity to speak about that and also what your expectations are for this first show for the company in general, for its future. 
 GARY SHAW: I thank you for the question. Not embarrassed about our numbers. We're losing money. We'll probably lose more money. But that's what start-ups do. There are very few companies that start from day one and make money. It's about staying power. The UFC lost over $35 million before they ever went on spike and got that push. And I'm sure if you spoke to people that have started companies, whether it's a Yahoo or a Google or an Intel or any other major company that's made it, there are pharmaceutical companies that lost and bled a lot, a lot of money before they came across that drug. We know we have the product. We know we have the fighters. The fighters that have coming with us and Gina can speak for herself, but all the fighters that have coming with us were happy they came with us. They didn't jump ship. They don't read the reports. They know at the end of the fight they get paid what we promise them. We've never breached a contract. And we've taken people like Gina Carano who no one knew and we made her a huge star. And we're doing that with Kimbo and Robbie Lawler and Jake Shields and Diaz and other fighters that have fought for us. So are we losing money? Yes, we're losing money. Are we going to be here long term? Yes, we're going to be here long term. We're the only company out there that has a SHOWTIME type deal and a CBS deal. Nobody else has that to offer to any athlete. And the fighters that fight on this card on May 31st, the following day when they walk through an airport everybody will know them. Just like these reality shows, "Survivor"and shows like that, they're going to be instantaneous stars. So we're going be here for a long time. We're number two behind the UFC, there's no question. We're Pepsi to Coke. We're Avis to Hertz. But it's not always a bad place to be. As I said, we're far, far away from them 16 months ago when we started. I don't think anybody would have ever believed that we would have been on SHOWTIME, we would have been going on CBS, and we'd have the rosters that we have, the product that we have in 16 short months. So where we were a lap behind the UFC, I tell everybody that knows NASCAR, they better look out of their rearview mirror because we're right on their right bumper. And it's not a bad place to be. So, you know, I don't know if that answers your question. I'm speaking to it. I'm not being protective of it because I think the future is so bright for our company and so bright for the fighters that fight for us. And we treat all of our fighters like champions. And Gina can tell you how she is treated and the guys can tell you how they're treated. I think, you know, we treat them like they're all champions belt or no belt.

 Q. Thank you, Gary for your candor. I just have a quick follow-up question from what you just said. It brought to mind, I am assuming you guys are working on the free television model where you put out the product for free television then hope to move to pay-per-view. When do you think you will move to the pay-per-view realm? I've heard talks of pay-per-view. How close do you think your company is to that? 
 GARY SHAW: My company is the same as my boxing career has been. I do pay-per-views when they're worthy of pay-per-views and I'm not embarrassed to ask people for their money. And the fans for their money. I don't think that you should be asking fans for their money every single month. Pay me to see my fighters. I don't believe in that. I believe we have a great model with SHOWTIME. We put on great fights. It's people television. And this is free television for CBS. You just need a plug, a screen and rabbit ears and you are in business. So we'll do a pay-per-view when we have a fight that we believe is worthy of pay-per-view but not until then. Look, we gave you Shamrock and Kung Lee. That was a spectacular card, a great fight. We gave it free. But I think asking fans to pay every single month, you are just ripping them off. And that's wrong. That's wrong. I'm not going to be a party to that. And our company won't be a party to that.

 Q. Thank you, Gary
 GARY SHAW: Thank you.

 Q. I asked the two fighters while Gary was off the line about the social networking they have through pro elite.com. And I wanted to follow-up with you, Gary. Basically, it seems first of all innovative to just have that sort of interaction with fighters online. And also I've noticed it seems to be where UFC is kind of a closed shop basically, this seems to open the door for people to talk about all MMA. 
 GARY SHAW: Yes. We wanted to do a site that helped MMA. I am a believer that the stronger we make mixed martial arts, the better it will be for EliteXC, the grand, and the better it will be for the fighters. And I've always used this expression I hope this answers your question. If you have one restaurant on the street good or bad it's only a restaurant. If you have many restaurants on the street, then it becomes restaurant row. And the fans grow and people go to eat there because they go let's go to restaurant row there's this, this and that. So I'm not a believer like the UFC and Dana White of crushing everyone around you. I'm more of a believer of working with everybody around us, build the sport of mixed martial arts, educate the people that aren't fans out there. Hopefully it will become an Olympic sport. The fighters that know know the discipline that's required. Know they're highly disciplined fighters. So we work with others. We loan Nick Diaz to fight Gomley (sic). So there are things out there that we believe in that will make the sport stronger. So, you know, that's it. We're all about mixed martial arts. It's not just about EliteXC.

 Q. I talked a little bit with people from the IFL in the past week and they are very interested in the notion of having unified champions wherever it's possible or practical. Would that be something you would want to get involved with as well? 
 GARY SHAW: I'm all for it. I know Jay Larkin very well. I'd love to fight for for an IFL belt. If they want to do women's, we'll fight for a women's IFL belt. We'll put our belt at risk as well. I believe it in. Women like jewelry. The more belts the better for them. They like accessories. So why not fight for an IFL belt or a dream belt or anybody. I've always said all along, we'll put anybody on SHOWTIME or CBS. If they're legitimate fighters, I don't care if they fight for the UFC. What's good for the sport is good for my athletes is good for our brand.

 Q. Thanks very much. 
 GARY SHAW: Thank you very much.

 Q. Kaitlin, how has the finals been going? 
 KAITLIN YOUNG: You know, I have two tomorrow morning then two Friday morning. So studying's fine. But haven't actually taken them or gotten the results yet so we'll see.

 Q. What's it like working with the gym you are at right now. Especially a lot of grappling when you consider Sean Shirk and Lesnar both train at the same gym as you. Do you feel that you're getting a lot more wrestling training A lot more grappling training? 
 KAITLIN YOUNG: Yeah. Obviously me trying to work without with Lesnar would be hilarious just thinking of the physics of that. So I don't ever do anything with him. But Sean has helped me a lot with takedown offense and that kind of thing. He's been super helpful.

 Q. Gary, first of all, David Bray from blog talk radio says hi. I believe he got his start with you. 
 GARY SHAW: Yes.

 Q. And what do you think about, you know, going to live TV versus pay-per-view? You obviously are looking to do this live TV thing a lot more. And do you think that -- do you think that you are going to do maybe a pay-per-view every couple months or do you feel that it's going to be a once a month thing? 
 GARY SHAW: Neither. We'll do a pay-per-view when a fight warrants itself for pay-per-view. There's a misnomer out there about pay-per-view. That if you become a pay-per-view fighter you have really arrived. Well a good pay-per-view today does 200- or 300,000 buys. This fight on May 31st live on CBS has the ability to bring 100 million eyeballs. I mean the numbers are staggering. You could be on pay-per-view once a month and nobody will know who you are when you get to the train station. I am telling you that live TV is the real place to be. That's where the notoriety comes from. Not from pay-per-view. Because I can name you fighters that have fought on pay-per-view and most of you won't even know their names. Both in boxing and mixed martial arts. You can prove it because you can bring them to 42nd street and Broadway in New York City and everybody will be walking past them all the time. But if you have the eyeballs as Kimbo has proved with Youtube, as we've proved with SHOWTIME, as we're about to prove with CBS, there is absolutely nothing bigger in the world. So pay-per-view model is just a model when you have the two right fighters and can increase the revenue for both the company and the fighters but not the notoriety.

 Q. To follow-up on that, the whole idea I think we talked a couple weeks ago about the whole ranking system that a lot of these web sites do and do you think that this notoriety being more out there, open in the free TV market will help with those web sites recognizing you more when it comes to rankings? 
 GARY SHAW: Well I hope so. I think those that know me personally know how I feel about rankings and how I feel about web sites ranking. When I look at most web sites and I have to be candid I don't read the blogs, I don't go there, they don't rule my world, both in boxing or mixed martial arts. But when I read them they're mostly all UFC fighters. Because that's all that these writers know or feel because everything's the UFC. But I can tell you I would put our women fighters against any women in the world. I'd put Jake Shields against anybody the world. I think he is one of the finest fighters in the world. Robbie Lawler. I'm willing to fight Kimbo against anybody from the UFC. So you know we have fighters that are tremendous fighters. But they're not ranked because they're all UFC rankings. So I don't think my fighters take it serious. I've never had a fighter coming to me and ask me why aren't I ranked third? Why am I not in the ranks? It doesn't cut any mustard.

 Q. Is Gina back yet? 
 GINA CARANO: Yes, I'm back.

 Q. I am going to go on the flipside of the whole "American Gladiators" thing and say does it help with your endurance? 
 GINA CARANO: What it does help with is putting me out in front of people and getting me use to being in front of crowds and performing. And so that's something that I definitely need help with. Because I'm a little bit more to myself. So that's what it did help with. And being around a bunch of healthy body builders and positive people and a great NBC production team helped also.

 Q. Has anybody from "American Gladiators" said they want to be an MMA fighter eventually? 
 GINA CARANO: You know, a lot of them have actually trained here and there in boxing or whatever they trained in. I don't know how many of them have actually fought. I think they're all probably pretty much sticking to the entertainment business. I think they found their niche and they want to kind of ride it out.

 Q. If the show get is cancel next season you wouldn't take it out of the loop that they possibly could go back in to training? 
 GINA CARANO: I just don't think that -- like going into it I was the only, you know, real fighter. So I just don't think that -- I just don't think any of them are interested in it actually. I think maybe one or two of them have add couple fights but they're more interested in entertaining and being on TV and acting.

 Q. Gary, quick question for you, did you have any resistance on the CBS side to putting a women's fight in the first MMA show? And is there a design to make them the third fight in the card? 
 GARY SHAW: There was absolutely no resistance. Zero. As a matter of fact, they were thrilled to have Gina in the fight on CBS. I put the fight where I thought it should be in the entertainment value and what I'm looking to do on the card.

 Q. You just mentioned entertainment and I notice that Kelly Call and I think Jack Sussman are involved. Is there any involvement from CBS sports and what is the challenge with mixed martial arts with getting people like ESPN to cover it as a sport rather than cover it as entertainment? 
 GARY SHAW: I think we need to do a better job. There was only one player in the space for a long time now there's us and a lot more. I think we owe it to the fans to educate the fan base and others out there to become fans about the discipline and this truly is a real sport. Because it didn't have its start as a real sport in the eyes at least of the American public. So that's as far as, you know, us on the education field. I can't complain about ESPN, they've done a spectacular job. We have two athletes that have now appeared on E60 when Gina appears tonight we're getting coverage of their web sites. We're getting coverage on the magazine. That's huge. And we're being covered in a broad way like never before. We're backed up right now with over 85 requests for interviews from our athletes. And they're important stuff. And it's important to MMA the sport because it's not just a sport now we're crossing over to those like "People" magazine and that direction, let's call it lifestyle, rather than plain sport. So I think we're in a very, very good place. I'm very excited about what CBS has brought to the table for us. Obviously always thank SHOWTIME because they were the one who took a real gamble on us. But I think that you are going to see the coverage and it's going to be wide, a lot wider than any of you that are on this call has ever seen before. I think it's going to be good for the sport of mixed martial arts.

 Q. What do you think about doing more than four shows for CBS? 
 GARY SHAW: I think it would be spectacular. Obviously, May 31st, I don't want to say it's make or break, but it's sure make or -- maybe its rather than make and shatter, maybe make and break. If we do the rating that I think we can do, and the fighters fight like I think they're going fight, and the match-ups by the fight team are the correct match-ups, then I think CBS is going to be all over us to do more than four fight as year. And they have that right in our contract to ask us to do more than four a year.

 Q. Obviously EliteXC you guys are players in the MMA world, what do you think of affliction now having their own promotion? 
 GARY SHAW: What a question. I think they're going to find out that they're better off in the clothing business. Stick with what you know. Stick with what you do best and don't try to be somewheres that maybe you shouldn't be. I mean, look, we're not allowing any of our fighters to wear anything with the affliction name. UFC has done the same thing. So wouldn't they have been better off being in the clothing business where they have a spectacular line of clothing and lifestyle brands and being branded in our show on CBS in front of potential of 100 million eyeballs than try to do fights that, you know, it's one man's opinion that may not be competitive or may be boring. The names don't make the fights. The fighters make the fights. That's who makes the fights. Not the names of the fighters. And, you know, we're proving it every day with new people that we're bringing aboard. I can't wait for Eddie Alvarez to be a fighter on CBS or SHOWTIME. I mean we got some great fighters in the wings, exciting fighters. But as far as directly to your point, I think that maybe they'll do one or two fights. My prediction, they'll be back in the clothing business.

 Q. At that point do you think you would allow your fighters to wear affliction again? 
 GARY SHAW: When the day comes and they can e-mail me or call me and say we're back strictly in had the clothing business, yes, that ban will coming off that second. I always say this, and I'm stealing it from a boxing promoter so I can't claim the credit for this statement, but I sure know it's true, The desert of Nevada is littered with the bones and skeletons of would-be promoters.

 Q. Coming from the world of boxing, what are the most significant differences you see in the athletes and the promotion of the sport? 
 GARY SHAW: The fan base. And the lifestyle. Boxing is not a lifestyle. Boxing's a sport that people go to that could be an event or they're just a boxing fan. Mixed martial Arts is a lifestyle. They wear the gear. They wear the lifestyle clothing to the fights, to press conferences, to weighins, its it's much more rabid fan base. The fans are a lot more educated the true fans about the sport than the boxing fan. And when you are there -- when you go to a boxing match you can sit in the front row and wave to your friends until the main event comes on because nobody gets there until the main event. In mixed martial arts, everybody is there when the door opens. It just shows you the fan base. The other part is the demographic in mixed martial art skews much younger. The other part that still shocks me and maybe Kaitlin or Gina can speak to it because I am really not sure why but in boxing there are very few women in the audience unless on occasion someone brings a wife or a girlfriend. Very rarely will you see just girls there in mixed martial arts you see a group of eight girls coming to the fight. The place is it littered with women, fans, both with men and just girls night out. And I don't know why but I do know that's a huge difference between mixed martial arts and boxing.

 Q. Have you heard from Les Moonves himself and what are his expectations I don't know if that's a question more more Mitch but I'd rather hear it from you if you heard from him?
 GARY SHAW: I am a good basketball player I just pass the ball to Mitch if he's on. I'm trying to be funny but I've not heard from Les himself. But we and CBS are expecting a number we can be proud of. As I said this is honest. This is kind of make or break.

 Q. Gina and Kaitlin forgive me for not asking you questions but everything I wanted to ask has been covered. Thanks a lot for your time everybody. 
 GINA CARANO: Thank you. 
 JOHN BEYROOTY: I just want to remind everyone in the Southern California area that this coming Monday, May 19th, beginning at 10 a.m. and running to 1 p.m. we have got CBS media day at the CBS studio center at 4024 Radford Avenue in studio city, California. It will be on stage 4. Gina will be part of the proceedings along with Kimbo, Phil Baroni, and Nick Diaz and Jake Sshields. We hope to see everybody in Southern California at CBS media day. Also I want to alert everyone in the Southern California area that this coming Monday night, May 19 from 6-8 p.m. at the best guy on 1015 north la Brea avenue in west Hollywood, Gina, Frank shamrock, Baroni, Nick Diaz and Jake Shields will be at the Best Buy there for an autograph session put together by EliteXC. So Monday is a full day for some of the fighters and lots of opportunities media wise.
 GARY SHAW: John, this is Gary Shaw. Just to go along with what John said. CBS will send out an announcement on Monday morning of the announced team on the first CBS card. We will have the announcers at media day. We are bringing in a cage. We are going to allow the people that have never been in the cage to go in the cage with Nick Diaz and Jake Shields. Also put on a demonstration so it's going to be a terrific media day. Thanks, John. 
 JOHN BEYROOTY: Great. We have time for a few more questions.

 Q. Kaitlin this is just for you. I mean you're fighting your first high profile opponent can you just talk about fighting Gina for the first time? 
 KAITLIN YOUNG: I'm sorry what did you say talk about the fight?

 Q. Just talk about fighting your first high profile opponent. She seems to be the highest, the most publicized fighter that you will be facing in your career?
 KAITLIN YOUNG: It's really exciting actually. This is the first time I have fought somebody that I've been able to see footage of them beforehand. So I think my preparation has been more complete so that part of it is really great. I think there's that much more exposure available because she is such a big star right now. So that works out very well for me I'm really excited for this fight.

 Q. If this becomes a fight of striking are you confident you are going to win? Is that how you'd like this fight to play out, just see who the best striker is. 
 KAITLIN YOUNG: Not necessarily. You know, it is MMA. I mean I think this fight has potential to turn into a fight boxing match. But it is MMA. So it's mixed martial arts. And it will be a mixed martial arts fight. It wouldn't surprise me if this fight goes the ground. Great thanks.

 Q. My question is for Gina Carona. You mentioned earlier you are not buying into your own publicity or own hype. Have you noticed from being on NBC and now being promoted with CBS that your profile has gone up as you walk around your hometown or wherever you May be?
 GINA CARANO: Yeah. It's definitely way up. It's not only my hype, I'm not buying into hype in general. I know who I am and I know how far I've coming probably more than anyone. And I see where I am at in the sport. I just don't buy into the hype. A lot more people recognize me and that's a great feeling, but, you know, most people that coming up with me recognize me are very genuine. It's cool.

 Q. For people who May not know, you mention that the "American Gladiators" is some what impacted your training. Can you just give a brief idea of what your training normally consisteded of, how many weeks out you started seriously training for a fight and what you have been able to do for this fight?
 GINA CARANO: Normally I would like to train, you know, start training seriously eight weeks out from a fight. And this I've been probably anywhere between, you know, four to three weeks out from this fight. Like I would like to train eight weeks out. Again, no excuses. Whatever happens happens and that's just what's going to happen. I'm not not feeling confident in what I can do. Then, you know, it's pretty much two days, three days sometimes of just hard core preparation for the fight and that's what it usually is eight weeks out. So I'm just having to crunch it in to three weeks out. And the difference between what I am doing now is I'm kind of just keeping my mind clear and just relaxing. And we'll see how I do.

 Q. I have a question for Gary Shaw as well. What was the decision to bring the show here to New Jersey. I'm calling from the home newspaper here in east Brunswick, New Jersey. I'm just interested why bring the show to the Prudential Center in New Jersey
 GARY SHAW: First of all I live in New Jersey. I'm former regulator in New Jersey.

 Q. For the athletic commission? 
 GARY SHAW: Yes. For years. And it's just something that if I thought I would get the opportunity to do I wanted to jump at it and the Prudential Center is part of the AEG family who I do business with. And we went there they had open arms. I think the Prudential center's a spectacular place for the fight. When our fighters get there I know they're going to be impressed. It's close to New York city. Major media including all of you. When you think of the demographics from Philly to Connecticut I mean we're loaded with people we're loaded with MMA fans. So to me it's natural fit. But personally going to the campus of the University of Miami for our last show, you know, our last big show where I'm proud they am a graduate of then coming home to New Jersey, to me that's, you know, I hit the sweepstakes.

 Q. Have you gotten any word from the the Prudential Center or the ticket master as far as how ticks are selling here
 GARY SHAW: Very well. We're all out of all the $25 tickets, which I made plenty available, are all sold out. I think there are six $1,000 seats still left available. So we're doing very well. We have no complaints. We're going to have a full house when that TV camera rolls at 9:00.

 Q. Very good. One last question. Obviously you're aware of the comments of stone regarding the deal. Were you surprised by his comments and despite all the gains that MMA has made in the last couple years it's clear there is still a stigma attached to it. How do you combat that? 
 GARY SHAW: Good question. I thought it was a, sort of like just a remark off the cuff. Because, you know, Summerstone has the majority stake in the CBS world but also has Viacom which has spike which is probably 90% UFC. So you can't be a mixed martial arts hater because he's got 90 percent of it on one of his channels. I didn't take offense of that. A little bit of setback? Sure any time anybody says anything negative. I think it's education. I think I've tried to say that all through this call. You need to meet these athletes up close and in person. You need to meet Kaitlin who is telling you that she's a student. You got to meet Gina Carano and get to meet these people or Kimbo or fighters out of other organizations. Not just our organization but other organizations to find out that they're good citizens, they're not animals, and not hoodlums. I think part of it is the dress, part of it is the fighting within a cage and how the sport started. But this is truly a discipline. It's truly a sport. I mean, go to the gym with any of these fighters and go through a training session, you'll have new found respect for all these fighters. So I think we just have to really educate the people out there that it's truly a real sport and the two girls that are on this call are proud of what they do and proud of the discipline. And I think a lot of their friends and family admire them for it. So, you know, education, education, education. 
 Yeah. I thank you. This has been a tremendous conference call. I have a lot of respect for a lot of the questions asked and the fact that I've been on I don't know how many hundreds of conference calls and it's always the same questions to the athlete tell us about your training. So the fact you're all interested both in our company, myself, and our two fighters that I represent, I thank you all very much. I hope you will be, if you or the west coast, May 19th, if you don't know where it is or need information you can get to John Beyrooty of BZA and he'll fill you in or Mitch Graham from CBS. And for all of those that are going to be in the area and need to be credentialed, same thing to John. And love to see you at the Prudential Center on May 31st. If you can't, CBS you only need what I told you, a plug, a screen and rabbit ears. Plug in and it's great show at 9 p.m., primetime, Saturday, May 31st. It is delayed on the west coast. So I thank you all very much for indulging me the and I look forward to seeing you or speaking to some of you at the May 19th event. Thank you.

 Q. Question specifically for Gina. I know you might probably have been asked this before by U.S. press, but in comparing "American Gladiators" and this, you said during the call that you were the only fighter who was part of gladiators. Do you -- did the you have to or do you have to kind of with gladiators tone down the kind of aggression that you would bring in to the ring for your MMA fights? 
 GINA CARANO: That's a good question. The first season they were kind of freaked out having me -- well it seemed like they were kind of freaked out having me be part of it. Because they coming back to go over the rules of each event and they would just be directly talk to me. They're like no punching, kicking, whatever, don't check anybody out on the pyramid. I was looking at them like, I'm just here to have fun and that's exactly the way I look at it. They should have been telling that to everybody else because I'm use to being physical on the regular basis. And I was completely look at it as fun and games and there's a couple times where I pulled guard or I wanted to go for a submission or something and I had to rethink it because of where I was in spandex in front of people. So, yeah, no it's good question but I didn't have any problems holding back. Because it's a completely different mentality.

 Q. And saying that, which I kind of thought you might, you mentioned also earlier on that you have to kind of adopt a mindset for this fight against Kaitlin having coming off nine months off doing something else as you pointed out. Is that very much a case of having to switch on a different part of your brain for a contest like this? 
 GINA CARANO: Definitely. I have to -- I guess I have to just get back to Gina being the fighter and I have been in a completely different world for the last nine months. And it's really fascinating to me because I coming back to the fight world and I remember how I left it and even everybody on here, everybody is so serious and I've just been in a completely different world for the last nine months. So, yeah. But I like my little refreshing outlook that I have on it and it's really kind of lightened my load in kind of refreshed me. I am reminded. I love doing this. I love fighting. If I didn't I wouldn't do it any more. If it's something I love to do I'm not going to dread it. I'm not going to run from it I'm just going to embrace it and I love the feels that coming along with it. I use to get so nervous and now I feel those nerves coming back and it's like a whole different game now because I feel refreshed and I'm loving it.

 Q. That's great. One final kind of follow-up to that. From what you said earlier on, is it fair to say that if this hadn't been such a high profile potential show case for you you might have thought twice about taking a fight at this stage. May it have coming too soon if it had not been something like this that there was a such a special thing for your career? 
 GINA CARANO: You know, that's a good question, too. Probably, you know, I probably would have held off and like to really have put everything into my training for the fight. But that's not the case. So we're just going to do it. We're just going to go for it. Think I owe it to EliteXC, I owe it to my fans and I owe it to myself to get back in there and not spend so much time in in between fights and I'd like to fight a lot more so I'm hoping to get another fight in this year regardless of what happens. So, yeah.

 Q. Best of luck to you and of course Kaitlin as well
 GINA CARANO: Thank you very much.

 Q. Question for Gina. Gina, are the "American Gladiators" of course LELA Alli is one of the people hosting the show. She's been of course in the situation where she's become the most prominent women's boxer when she was actively competing. Have you had a chance to compare notes or discuss any of this about the challenges you're facing in MMA compared to some of the challenges she's facing in boxing? Because I know a lot of people gave her a lot of grief in boxing. 
 GINA CARANO: Yeah actually I have. And it really refresheded me when I walked into "American Gladiators" and she walked into the room. If was kind of having second thoughts I. Was taking myself really, really seriously. Too seriously even. And I told her I was like I didn't know if I was going to do. I want to be taken seriously as a fighter and all this stuff. She looked at me and she's like you know what people are always going to say what they're going to say. So what you can do for yourself is just you do you and have fun and you get just one life to live. So just live it the way you want to. And don't be worried about what people are going to say about you because they're always going to have something to say. And I read through some of the interviews I guess the old interviews that were done on her and everything and people just gave her a lot of grief about, you know, being, you know, Mohammed's daughter and all that. It's just too bad that people -- and the same goes like people are giving Kimbo Slice and people giving me grief. We're standout characters right now. We're doing what we love. People should be inspired by it instead of trying to bring it down. Look at it for what it is. Okay fine I've got a 5-0 record. There's more females out there that have bigger records but right now people like watching me in a month that could change or in this fight that could change or whatever it is. But it's not so say we're not skilled. It hurts. It hurt as little bit that American public is so focussed on, you know, building people up watching them fall. We should just be more, you know, into the inspirational story of everybody's lives and Lela, she's a tremendous boxer. She is an awesome boxer. I've spoke ton her trainer and she's awesome. I mean put anybody in there like to spar with her and just watch her go. So yeah we do relate on a bunch of different issues. But I don't know I'm just learning to believe in myself and take it for what it's worth you know.

 Q. Hopefully this hating can be defeated and hopefully your performance will contribute to that on May 31st. So good luck and I'll see everybody in Newark and the press conference before. 
 GINA CARANO: Thank you. 
 JOHN BEYROOTY: Mitch, are you on the call still? 
 MITCH GRAHAM: I am indeed. Just thank everybody so much pour calling in and listened to some great questions and we appreciate all the support obviously and coming back on Thursday. And that's it.
 JOHN BEYROOTY: Great. Thanks, Mitch. And CBS. Gina, can key have some closing comments if you've got anything to add.
 GINA CARANO: I just wanted to thank everybody for your support and for all the writers who look at it from a positive perspective thank you because it's not been easy. I can't imagine why people are still even asking the question why is this -- is this really considered a sport because there's obviously two professional athletes training and going against each other in competition. So I thank the writers, I thank the fans so much for being positive. If it wasn't for them I definitely wouldn't be where I am at in life. So I really owe that to them. And for all my trainers and for all the other female fighters that are in it, you know, with me I appreciate that we're all doing this together and it's big event. And I'm just happy to be part of it.
 KAITLIN YOUNG: Also very thankful for everybody that's covering this fight. We're going to give you a guys a great fight to watch. Really excited about it. Really glad to see that the EliteXC women's division is growing the way it is. I recently heard they booked a fight for 130 so it sounds as though there might be another weight division coming up so this isser there's more opportunity. Very exciting time for women in general and women's MMA so keep watching.
 JOHN BEYROOTY: Gina, Kaitlin, Mitch, everyone on this call, everyone involved with this promotion, CBS, EliteXC, pro elite, want to thank you for participating on this call. We appreciate your continued support and we look forward to having you back on this call this Thursday at the same time, 2 p.m. Eastern, 11 a.m. Pacific for a second conference call with Lawler and Smith and Baroni. Again thank you so much. We appreciate it. If you have any questions you know who to get ahold of and we'll talk to you all very soon. Thanks again and have a good day. Goodbye. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT