US OPEN
August 31, 2003
Younes El Aynaoui
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions.  
 
 
Q.  Did you live in New York, the Ronald McDonald House?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  Yes.  Were you there (smiling)?  
 
Q.  No. 
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  I love to meet some people.  I never saw anybody.  I stayed there only seven months, yeah.  I was staying in the hospital of special surgery for almost one month.  It was around $300 a day.  After a month, I had to look for a place.  Nicely, make me stay there, the Ronald McDonald House, 71st Street. 
 
Q.  Why were you there?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  I had a surgery, so... 
 
Q.  What kind?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  Ankle surgery.  And I wanted to stay there to make all the rehab work.  I was supposed to stay six months.  So that's why I was there.  
 
Q.  What kind of people were there with you?  Were there some sick people there, very sick?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  Yes.  Only children that has treatments that takes three, four years, like leukemia, cancers, yes.  I was there with my wife and my son, was a two-year-old, three-year-old maybe. 
 
Q.  Ewen?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  Yes. 
 
Q.  It seems to me like you are a cheer for your fans and yourself as well.  First set, you lose your serve.  Set two, 5-5, you serve, you lose your serve.  Set five, 4-2, you serve, you lose your serve.  What happened? 
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  I want to make it long, you know, more suspense (smiling).  
 
Q.  But still find a way to win?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  Yes.  It's true.  But I think it happens.  You know, we saw Kafelnikov also 5-4, was serving for the set.  When you serving for a set, you know, the opponent is trying harder.  Maybe you get a little bit tense because you know you just a few points away from the set.  But I wish I could end it up every time I was up.  But Novak was coming up.  I went down.  I think, there still more sets coming on.  The more the match goes, it's better for me, because I was feeling good. 
 
Q.  Can you talk about the atmosphere on the grandstand?  It's intimate.  How did that help you prevail today, or did it?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  I love it.  It's the third match I'm playing on the grandstand, you know.  When yesterday I told Hicham Arazi, "I'm scheduled again on the grandstand."  He was like, "You almost won already because you're playing on the grandstand, it's your court."  Is just great.  I had play on it before when it was a restaurant behind some windows.  It's much better now.  
 
Q.  How did you do in the other two matches you played there?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  It was this year.  My first round, my second round, my third round, I played on the grandstand. 
 
Q.  Another great match in a Grand Slam - Australia, Wimbledon, here.  How do you compare these three matches?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  I think in Australia when we both walk out of the court, we were both happy.  When you lose in a tiebreak in a fifth set, I mean, even me, I won, I'm happy, but I know it could go the other way.  Just the matter of one point then.  We were 5-All.  It's tough to play a tiebreaker in the fifth set.  I don't like it too much. 
 
Q.  You play so well in big situations. 
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  It's a matter of luck.  The tiebreaker, 5-All, you know, I went for the passing cross-court.  Could have been this far out and it was match point for him.  Then came match point for me.  When you play at that stage, it's a matter of luck, I can say. 
 
Q.  You're 5-5 in tiebreakers now in The Open.  What is it about you and tiebreakers? 
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  Yeah, I like it.  You know, it's a very high-pressure time.  You don't have many choice because if you lose the point, you are behind.  It's two serves each.  I didn't know I was 5-5.  I always think I lose more tiebreaker than I win.  
 
Q.  If you're not careful, you'll get a reputation for being the man who plays all the endurance matches.  Do you think that's going to help in the upcoming Davis Cup tie?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  Yeah.  I think it's good to be referenced as an endurance player.  It means, you know, I've been working out, because you get only this by practicing and getting hours on the court.  So I think it's all credit for me.  Of course, Davis Cup, again, can be five sets.  It's over three days. 
 
Q.  Do you plan to play all three days?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  Yeah, I hope.  If the captain choose me, I will be there. 
 
Q.  At the moment, what do you think it's looking like for the result there?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  For the Davis Cup?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  You know, right now I'm looking forward to playing against Carlos Moya. 
 
Q.  Trying not to think about it?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  Yes.  Right now I'm not thinking about it.  It going to be on clay, you know.  Still have a few more weeks.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible) fans seem to surge behind you?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  Yes. 
 
Q.  You talked last year about your background, coming to America.  The way they are behind you. 
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  Yes, sometimes it does surprise you.  People are really thankful about it.  I just can say "thanks."  I'm maybe happier than all of them are.  But they seems to be so happy to shake my hands, to come and watch me.  I like it.  
 
Q.  Whose arms did you jump into after the match?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  My trainer. 
 
Q.  His name?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  I'm living in Spain right now, in Barcelona.  He's a trainer there.  He takes care of the massage and all the fitness training. 
 
Q.  What is his name?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  Ricardo Gaitero.  He never has been in tennis before.  The first time he saw a tennis match was in Doha, in the beginning of the year, when we start working together. 
 
Q.  You got to the finals?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  At Doha this year I lost in semifinals. 
 
Q.  Speaking of after the match, I'd like to ask you a very important question that relates to destiny and fate and omens.  At Wimbledon when you tossed your racquet into the stands, it was caught by a guy who was down on his luck, unpublished travel writer from Oxford.  This time it was caught from a guy who was from Casablanca, now in New York as a financial planner. 
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  I saw he was wearing the football shirt. 
 
Q.  Do you think that somehow is a good omen for Younes El Aynaoui?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  Yes.  When I was watching tennis, I would love to get a piece of a tennis player, a wristband or anything.  So I'm always trying to give things away and make the people at least happy.  Yeah, was a good throw.  I had to throw two racquets because the first racquet was too short.  Then I throw the second one.  I'm trying to get some more racquets right now (smiling). 
 
Q.  The first one was caught by a fan. 
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  That was good. 
 
Q.  You're not worried about cracking someone on the head?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  Not any more.  
 
Q.  How many racquets did you crack today?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  Two. 
 
Q.  Both in the fifth?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  (Nodding head.) 
 
Q.  What went through your mind the second point of the tiebreak in the fifth set when you missed that easy forehand?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  Every point was so important then.  I don't know if it's my first tiebreaker in the fifth that I play.  I don't know if you know that.  
 
Q.  You live and train in Barcelona.  How well do you know Moya?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  He lives in Mallorca.  I moved two years ago in Barcelona.  He already left.  We never practice together.  The last time I played him, was in the final in Bastad on clay.  It was a good match, 7-5 in the third.  He's a tough opponent.  We all know he has played finals in Grand Slams, won the French Open.  I know is going to be a tough match.  But it's to go in the quarterfinals.  I'm going to try to give 100% again. 
 
Q.  You do or don't like tiebreakers?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  In the fifth, I don't like them.  
 
Q.  You prefer 21-19?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  Yes. 
 
Q.  This match went a little more to you?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  Yes, every match is very important, of course.  When you won like this, after a strong battle, he was there, he helped me during the whole match.  I'm spending more time with him than I do spend with my wife recently.  We are really good friends.  I was happy that he hang me high.  I was a bit surprised. 
 
Q.  Why do you think you fell through the cracks?  The French academy overlooked you.  When you were at Bollettieri, nobody saw your talent.  Why do you think that was?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  I wasn't really good, you know, until 23, 24.  It was so many players better than me.  I guess in the future, if I meet a young player who wants to go on the tour, not just looking at him how he plays on the court.  You know, I have a talk with him, see if, you know, he's really into it, he really wants to do.  What happened to me, I never had a chance to talk to a famous coach or somebody like this and tell him, "I really want to do it."  
 
Q.  You drove a bus?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  Yeah, I was doing a lot of small jobs, you know, just to pay for my stay there.  For a while I cleaned the gym, organized all the gym, drive the bus, watch the kids in the room, if everything is clean at night, things like that. 
 
Q.  Did you ever talk to Andre or anybody that was there at your time?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  No.  I had a chance to practice once with Andre while I was there.  No.  Now we are very good friends.  We respect each other.  I played him a couple of times.  But while I was there, no, they were like a bit apart. 
 
Q.  Don't you think a big server has the edge always in a tiebreak?  Your countryman Hicham lost in the second round against a guy who has a big serve. 
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  Karlovic, also Lleyton Hewitt lost against him.  He's a big server, of course.  He's so tall.  But it helps of course the big servers.  They play a tiebreaker.  Ivanisevic used to play tiebreakers, Rusedski, Philippoussis.  One more point in the tiebreaker, it's yours.  
 
Q.  What would you give to have a backhand like Guga or Andre?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  I'd love it, for sure.  Maybe I'm just now blocking mentally on that shot because there's no reason I don't hit it.  The slice has been working all right, but sometimes I play some scary balls with that backhand. 
 
Q.  Is it a real liability problem?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  Yeah.  But I guess if I was comfortable on the backhand, I wouldn't try to hit that many forehands, and my forehands wouldn't have been that good, you know.  Some players are playing, you know, average backhand, average forehands.  On my points, when I hit the forehand, I'm trying to go for a winner.  
 
Q.  Is your family here with you?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  No, unfortunately.  We had a baby last week, you know.  My wife, we knew exactly the day. 
 
Q.  How hard is that?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  It was hard last week.  I was very happy.  I knew it the day I played against Guga.  I had a boost of energy.  The next day, I was really down.  I played against Blake a poor match.  I was thinking on flying for a few days.  But then I decided to stay.  Now I'm looking forward, of course, to go back and to see the baby born, you know, seven days ago now.  
 
Q.  Have you been able to see a picture of your baby?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  Yes, the e-mail, of course.  They e-mail me some pictures. 
 
Q.  What is his name?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  Noam.  Noam, N-o-a-m, Ismail, I-s-m-a-i-l. 
 
Q.  What is it like to travel with  --
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  My wife had a caesarean. 
 
Q.  Before that, as far as traveling with your kids. 
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  I loved it. 
 
Q.  Is it difficult?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  No.  My wife likes it.  She was taking care of the kids when I was playing, then we would spend time together.  We really liked it.  We did it for five years almost.  But now our oldest is six, and he has to go to school, so that's why she's not traveling.  Otherwise she would be traveling still.  
 
Q.  There's a comment going around to have to win a Grand Slam, you should play the big points more authoritatively.  Do you think so yourself?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  Yes, of course I think I have the chance.  A few times I'm in the quarterfinals.  You know, it's three match away.  I did let's say 70% of the job.  I'm back every year the same. 
 
Q.  You can win a Grand Slam?
 
YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  Yes.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT