US OPEN
August 29, 2003
Younes El Aynaoui
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Younes, please.


Q.  Just talk about the service game.  It seemed that you were big on the changes of pace, and not just blasting it at 135 every time and trying to keep him off balance?

YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  Unfortunately, twice, I service at 5-4 in the first set, I got broken.  And then the third set, again, 5-4, and then I got another break.  So, yeah, I felt when I was hitting straight and hard, he was returning well.  So I tried to mix it up a little bit, put some kick, make him play the ball a little bit higher.  And it worked pretty well during the whole match, only at 5-4 twice.

Q.  As far as the crowd, it seemed a lot of them were behind you.  Is it kind of a boost for you, knowing people are kind of in your corner?

YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  Yeah, I was surprised.  That's what I said to my coach, people were behind me.  I guess it's since that match against Andy, the beginning of the year, the people really appreciate watching me and supporting me.  And I could feel it already in the tournaments before - Indian Wells, Miami, all these tournaments.  People are following me a little bit more, and, of course, I like it a lot.  I didn't get used to it in the past years.  I was most unknown player most of the time, and now people, they come to see me playing and it feels very good.

Q.  How much of it do you think is due to the fact that you do a lot of charity work, you speak six languages, you smile when the opponent hits a good shot, you know, as far as you winning over the fans?

YOUNES EL AYNAOUI:  Yeah, I think it's part of it.  And that match against Andy, it was a big change also for me.  I felt that after that match, a lot of people, you know, starting to know more about me and are behind me and enjoyed that match.  And so now they come and support me more.  It's a mix of everything.  I'm on the road, too, and the people, so they really appreciate it too.  I'm 32, and I'm still hanging in there.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT