US OPEN
August 26, 2003
Alex Corretja
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  I was in Comack last week, and things didn't go well for you there.  Obviously things didn't go well today.  Was last week a precursor to how your game is?
 
ALEX CORRETJA:  It's not just Comack.  It's been a while already that my game hasn't been at the place I would like to.  But I'm in a process which I'm working hard to be back at my highest level.  Of course, it will take a while.  This is not going from one day to the other.  It's been a difficult season for me in the tennis way.  I'm just trying to do my best.  It's not just because I lost last week.  I come up here lack of confidence.  It's already been a few more weeks. 
 
Q.  How did it happen that you've had this kind of season?
 
ALEX CORRETJA:  Well, I believe after many good seasons and many years on the tour and traveling and playing and practicing, spending time out of house, sometimes you feel a little human being and you feel tired.  That's all.  I mean, there's not much to say.  It's just regular life.  I believe everyone goes in a process which is not easy to solve.  You just got to find the solutions.  I'm working on that.  It's nothing have to be too much worry.  It's just that I need to continue in the same way I am right now. 
 
Q.  With Pete Sampras' retirement last night, people were asking about the famous 1996 match.  Is that your most memorable match?
 
ALEX CORRETJA:  No.  For me it was a huge match.  It was the beginning of a nice career for me, I would say.  Since that match, I started to play much better.  But for me the best moment it was winning, probably when I won the Masters or when we won Davis Cup, when I was winning like a few Masters Series and many other titles.  But I learn a lot from that loss, but of course it's not my best memory. 
 
Q.  Todd Martin came in yesterday and said Pete Sampras ruined a lot of careers.  Do you think if you had won that match that day, your career would be any different?
 
ALEX CORRETJA:  That will be impossible to know.  I don't know if on that time I was ready to be on that kind of level.  I was pretty young.  For me playing on hard courts, it was at the beginning pretty much difficult.  It change already.  I mean, it brought me to a different step.  I don't care about if I would have won.  But, of course, sometimes there are winnings or losings that affect yourself.  But on that situation, it only gave me confidence.  I don't think that was the match that it took me down.  It was the opposite:  it took me pretty high up. 
 
Q.  Do you think on the ranking that a guy that doesn't win a Grand Slam in a year should be a No.  1 or should the rankings work that way, that even if you don't win a Grand Slam, you can probably get to No.  1?
 
ALEX CORRETJA:  Well, probably if you can stand at the No.  1, it's because you been playing pretty solid and pretty consistent during the year.  The rankings are there.  I mean, maybe you didn't win the major, but you be playing semis or quarters or finals.  Plus then you win Masters Series.  So why not?  I don't see any reason why you only can be No.  1 if you win a Grand Slam.  There are other tournaments are pretty important, too.  I believe that if you been playing through the whole year in a good, consistent level, you deserve to be there.  I mean, this is something pretty obvious.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT