TMS - MADRID
October 14, 2002
Alex Corretja
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  How do you find the court?  The same as in the US Open?

ALEX CORRETJA:  The court is great.  Of course, winning is still better.  For being the first match, the first round, the atmosphere and the crowds have been great.  I'm very pleased to have won, seeing that the public is always behind you. 

Q.  It was a two-set win, but very hard fought. 

ALEX CORRETJA:  He passed through the quallies.  It's always dangerous.  It wasn't that easy.  I haven't been training for a few weeks because I had a stomach virus.  I came here a little unprepared, so the match helped me get into the tournament. 

Q.  You are No.  14 now.  Do you think you have the chance to go to Shanghai? 

ALEX CORRETJA:  No, I'm not worried about that.  I'm not worried.  I would love to go.  I would even pay money to go there.  I know that I'm far away from that.  I know my chances are low.  That doesn't mean that I won't fight hard in my next three tournaments.  It won't be easy. 

Q.  Your next match? 

ALEX CORRETJA:  Kafelnikov is a good player on hard court.  He wins a lot of tournaments on that surface.  It won't be easy for me.  I have a bad match record with him.  Despite that, last time I beat him on clay. 

Q.  Do you know something about Albert Costa?  We heard he's been injured. 

ALEX CORRETJA:  He's got a problem in his back.  They are examining him.  It doesn't look very good.  Acute lower back. 

Q.  Your match against Kafelnikov, you have nothing to lose.  I suppose it will be an opportunity for you to play without pressure. 

ALEX CORRETJA:  Of course, yes.  Kafelnikov is always a very hard player. 

Q.  In Paris in 2000 you made it to the finals.  You've been playing quite a lot of matches in hard courts. 

ALEX CORRETJA:  Yeah, I trust my possibilities.  I'll play my best.  I don't want to be a victim.  I'll try to win, but he has a better match record indoors than me. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT