TMS - LISBON
November 30, 2000
Alex Corretja
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Questions for Alex. 

Q. How important was that match for you, considering next week? 

ALEX CORRETJA: It is great feeling to see that after I had two losses here, pretty
tough ones, because I was in a good situation in both of them. It is nice to see that I
came back, even if I lost the first set. Especially thinking about next week, it is really
good for myself and for the whole Spanish team. 

Q. Have you thought more to the last match with Lleyton in Australia or to the next one
next week during this match?

ALEX CORRETJA: It is clear that if I would think about the match in Australia, I would
never beat him. So I've been thinking about myself, especially; my pride, and about next
week. Once I lost the first set, I was a little disappointed because I knew that I had no
chance to qualify for the semifinals. But then I was behaving, I believe, like a real man.
Maybe the easiest thing was to just let it go, you know, and say, "Okay, we'll face
next week. I'm not going to give a hundred percent. I don't care about this match."
But I didn't want to lose to him again. I want to beat him. I wanted to show my friends
and my colleagues for next week that we can beat him. This is good for us. 

Q. How much more of an advantage do you think you'll have on clay? 

ALEX CORRETJA: I don't know. But, of course, we prefer to play on clay. We are going to
play in our hometown. We love to play in Barcelona on that stadium. This is going to be
like a dream come true. We hope we going to be in advantage of them. I don't know how
much, but of course I think we are better players on clay than them. But we have to show
it on the court. 

Q. Besides Davis Cup final next week, what will you do with your time in the
off-season, the next four or so weeks?

ALEX CORRETJA: It is a good question because I didn't have time to think about having
rest or having time off, you know, because I still in the season. I still have the biggest
thing in my life, which is Davis Cup final next week. Afterwards, I think I will sleep a
lot. That's what I need to do. I need to rest. I need to stay with my girlfriend, with my
family, with my friends, and recover for next year. I'm definitely not going to Australia
because I wanted to rest, I wanted to recover, and I don't want to be again the same guy
as '99, which I was exhausted, I was tired of tennis, I didn't want to play. That was
because a consequence of many things. So I think we have to learn from our mistakes.
That's why I'm not going to press myself to go to Australia, to push myself, saying,
"Oh, I need to go there. I'm No. 7 or 8 in the world. Maybe I can clinch some spots
to be No. 5." It doesn't exist anymore for me. I want to enjoy my life. If I enjoy my
life, I enjoy tennis.

Q. Was there something about Hewitt's game that you saw that will help you for next
week?

ALEX CORRETJA: It was good for me to play him one more time, because last time I played
him, you know how bad it was for me. It was difficult to play him. Especially after ten
months, I think I'm at his level. It's good to see the way he plays, the way he behaves on
the court, as well. You have to be ready because after one game he's saying, "Come
on," like this. Sometimes I think it is too much. It is good for you because you have
extra motivation to beat him. You don't really like to lose to him because he behaves
sometimes, from my point of view, a little strange. 

Q. Today? 

ALEX CORRETJA: I don't know. After four points, he's already, "Come on." I
don't know if that's too normal. I think it's good that a guy has motivation, but
sometimes I think he's doing more like psychological thing than other stuff. I don't know
if he's so pumped to say "Come on" the first game of the match. That create me
some good feelings because I wanted to beat him badly. Even if I was out of the
tournament, I wanted to beat him, even if I had to stay here for the whole night.

Q. Do you sometimes lose respect for him for the way he behaves on the court? Do you
lose respect for a player that behaves that way on the court?

ALEX CORRETJA: No. I don't like the way he behaves on the court. That's all. I never
say that before for a player, but I don't like the way he behaves. He can do whatever he
likes. But his behaving, it's a little strange.

Q. Would that make it particularly sweet for you to beat him next week, as well?

ALEX CORRETJA: Of course. 

Q. In that particular case, the way that Hewitt behaved, was important the support of
the public for you?

ALEX CORRETJA: Yeah, so important. It was great for me to see that the public was
behind me, especially after that ball that was like this far out (approximately five
centimeters). I lost my concentration, I lost my focus; I think I lost the set. I could
beat him the first set, and maybe I will still have the chance to qualify. But the public
behaves pretty well with me. And also I believe because they saw that the guy was a little
strange on the court. I just don't like the way he behaves. That's all. As I say, he can
do whatever he wants. He can behaves as he wants. Everybody has his own personality. But I
don't feel it's so normal what he does. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT