DAVIS CUP BY BNP PARIBAS WORLD GROUP FINAL: SPAIN v CZECH REPUBLIC
November 16, 2012
Nicolas Almagro
Alex Corretja
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. BERDYCH/N. Almagro
  6‑3, 3‑6, 6‑3, 6‑7, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Nicolas, what was the decisive factor in the defeat today? 
NICOLAS ALMAGRO:   Well, was a really tough match.   I think we play a really, really good tennis.   I have chance at the beginning of the fifth set with a lot of breakpoints at the beginning of the fifth. 
He played really, really aggressive at the end with 4‑3 in the fifth set.   Well, that's the key, I think.   He did a really, really good match at the end and he is the winner. 

Q.   Nicolas, did you have on your mind that you can have a chance to keep him on the court as long as possible because he's playing tomorrow again? 
NICOLAS ALMAGRO:   I had in my mind to do my best.   I told you yesterday if the captain say to me that I need to play, I will try to do everything that I can on court, and that's it. 
I am very happy with my effort.   That's the only thing I can say.   I don't know how he is feeling.   I'm feeling great and ready to rest a little bit right now and we'll see what happen tomorrow and Sunday. 

Q.   Do you think the idea that Tomas and Radek are going to play the doubles tomorrow as well, and you have two fresh players, will be the decisive thing in the end?
CAPTAIN CORRETJA:   We will talk on Sunday about that, how each team reacts after each match.   For the moment it's 1‑1.   Tomorrow I believe they will play, so we will try to keep on doing our job. 
But the general situation, you wait till Sunday and then we will see if it did affect themselves physically or not. 

Q.   Alex, in 2008 in Argentina you played without Rafael Nadal, who was injured at that time, but you managed to beat Argentina.   I know you haven't been the captain those days, but do you see any similarities?   It was also 1‑All after the first day. 
CAPTAIN CORRETJA:   I think about today.   That was four years ago.   I said the other day that we did it once, why we couldn't do it twice.   That's why we feel comfortable and confident thinking that we can go and win. 
Different players, different country, different opponents.   So let's just focus in this tie and then see what happens. 
But the good thing is that we won it already outside.   It will not be the question, Is Spain ready to win outside?   We don't need to answer that fortunately because we won already outside.   We don't need to answer that. 
I think it's a little bit of a relief.   It's like when we won in 2000.   They were like, Do you think you will be able to win Davis Cup?   Now that's not the question anymore. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT