US OPEN
August 29, 2000
Alex Corretja
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  You seemed to have landed in a quarter of the draw that has all these huge servers, Rusedski, Philippoussis, Rafter, Arthurs. 
 
ALEX CORRETJA:  I have Rosset now. 
 
Q.  Does it concern you to be in the company of all those big servers?
 
ALEX CORRETJA:  I don't know, I'm there.  I mean, the draw, I didn't make the draw.  I have to be happy about the way I'm playing.  I have to focus on my game, which is the main thing at this moment, at this stage of my career.  Right now I have Marc Rosset, a big server, as well.  It's not going to be easy.  Of course I beat him a couple of times, more than three or four times, which it always help on hard courts, on clay, giving me a lot of confidence that I see I can go to that match thinking that I can do it again.  But it's not going to be easy, of course. 
 
Q.  How much does this surface resemble the one on which you triumphed at Indian Wells?
 
ALEX CORRETJA:  This is faster.  This is the fastest conditions we have through the whole summer, I guess.  We've been playing in a little bit slower surfaces.  I just played in Cincinnati and Washington.  I believe this is a little bit too fast, I guess. 
 
Q.  Too fast?
 
ALEX CORRETJA:  I think so, yes.  From my point of view.  Of course, if you ask people from other kind of game or other style, maybe they like it, you know.  But I think sometimes this is too fast.  
 
Q.  Do you think that gives somebody like Sampras a better chance?
 
ALEX CORRETJA:  I don't know who has better chance.  I also have good chance.  If you serve well, you know, it's difficult to broke your serve anyway.  It always give advantage to the small guys, as well, not big servers like us.  It helps a little bit our game.  But of course you see a lot of people who make aces.  I see today Arthurs playing Kuerten, it is unreturnable.  I think it would be a little bit more fair if it would be a little bit slower.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT