TMS MONTE CARLO
April 19, 2000
Alex Corretja
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Were you playing so well because your soccer team won yesterday night? 
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: I was strong because I am playing good tennis. Main point is that you
are playing well. If you are not, you don't win, that is clear. But it was a great night. 
 
Q. How does it feel to come back to Monte Carlo and how does it feel to be here as a
top seeded player?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Well, it feels great. You can see today again we have really good
weather. It is a great place to play and it is one of the nicest tournaments in the world,
so it is good to see that you are playing well and you are able to continue. I just won
two straight matches against two really good clay court players and playing really good
tennis and I feel comfortable on the court and I hope I can continue. It is not going to
be easy and tomorrow is going to be a tough match for sure, but I am glad that I am
playing well. 
 
Q. Do think you came back from nowhere?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: No. 
 
Q. Because, well, last time we saw you on clay was -- well, last year was the French
Open and a very weird match?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: I was somewhere always in my life, so even if I was not playing my best
tennis I never lose my mind or I never lost my personality, so maybe on the tennis courts
I was not playing finals of a Grand Slams or Super Series or Master Series, but it is
still you feel happy with yourself and your life nothing happens. I was always somewhere,
as I said. 
 
Q. You did believe you would be here?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Of course because otherwise I wouldn't be here. It is like a situation
when you are out there and you feel like you did it many times, you believe that you can
do it again, but you got to work hard and you got to just believe in yourself. I play
already five times Finals in this tournaments so of course I have to believe that I can
come back and do it again. That is what I did in Indian Wells. I was surprising maybe the
whole world because nobody would believe in me on that time, so that is why I am glad to
show that I am able to be on the tennis court playing good tennis. 
 
Q. Today you played better than yesterday, it seems.
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Yesterday I played good, but today I played very well. But yesterday
Berasategui made me run a lot. He has an excellent forehand and he came back to his best
level. That is why it cost me so much to win that match. Today was completely different.
My opponent was attacking a lot less and I was able to be myself aggressive, to go up to
the net and to do better. For me it was a comfortable match, especially I felt I had the
advantage because he was not playing so well. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT