TMS - INDIAN WELLS
March 17, 2000
Alex Corretja
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 GREG SHARKO: This is Alex's seventh career Tennis Masters Series semifinal and the
second in North America. He takes a 2-1 lifetime head-to-head advantage into tomorrow's
match against Lapentti.  
 
Q. Are you as capable now as when you won Hannover? Are you starting to feel like that
again?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: That's difficult to say. Of course, there's always a beginning. When I
won Hannover, I start winning Dubai that year, then I play the finals in Hannover, Gstaad,
Lyon, Indianapolis. It's always nice to see that you can come through, come back and play
good tennis. You never know, if I win here, it would be again big news for me, big
breakthrough. As we said, it's a long ways to go. I still have to play really tough
matches. Tomorrow is not going to be easy for me. 
 
Q. You've been down, you've come back and ended up very strongly in two matches. That
must give you a lot of confidence now. 
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Yes. It seems that again I'm fit, I'm strong on the court. I believe I'm
smart on the court again, which last year I didn't think about it. I was like not able to
continue my game because I was the whole time tired. I didn't give up, but I didn't have
any more energy. That's why now I can go on the court and just fight again, fight
everybody. It makes difficult for the opponent to see that the guy you have in front is
running the whole match. No matter if he makes 20 aces or 20 double-faults, I'm there
focused the whole time. So that's why now I feel better. At the end, it seems like I
didn't make any mistakes, I was playing even better. He was just making more mistakes.  
 
Q. Despite two or one or however many matches you've played, how do you feel you match
up against Nicolas?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Lapentti, you mean?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: I believe it's going to be interesting because both players like to play
from the baseline. He has a good serve. He has a good forehand, a lot of topspin. I have a
lot of topspin, as well. We like to play long matches. I don't know if it's going to be
long, but for sure none of us want to finish early unless you win. It's good when you
finish early like Nicolas did today, because he won. If you lose, you like to keep on
going and try to do it longer, no?  
 
Q. In '98 you won the World Championships, also were named Sportsman of the Year in
tennis. Is that a very difficult feat in this game where tennis is known for some
cut-throat type players?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: I don't know. For me is not difficult because I am like this. I'm acting
like I am. If they give me this trophy or this award, it's an honor for me, especially
because it has the name from Stefan Edberg, one of the biggest guys we ever have in
tennis. Then because my parents always try to teach me to be polite or to be a person
before a player. You just came up with your brothers and with all your family, you got
some education, it's normal that you just can continue. What I mean is you don't need to
change because you won the World Championships or something. I believe if you have a
regular life, you can just go in the same way. You don't need to change. The people maybe
change behind you, no, but not you, why? I'm no different than before. I may be more happy
because I already have a World Championships in my pocket, but not because I'm the world
champion, or I was the world champion. At that time, I didn't feel like this anyway. I
felt really like amazing, like flying or whatever because it was a special moment for me.
Nothing changed. I like when they give me this trophy, honestly. They give it to me in the
ATP like twice. It's good to see that, even if you are in the top or you're not, they give
you the trophy anyway. There are many good guys on the tour. 
 
Q. It seems that there are two things that don't connect here. It says against Filip
Dewulf in the book you gave up a point, a lines call that you thought was against him.
Then it says that Ivan Lendl was your idol. Ivan Lendl would never do that in a match,
right?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: I don't know that. When he was at his best, I liked the way he played. I
liked the way he focused on the court. He was serious. He was professional. I liked his
groundstrokes, especially his running forehands and backhands and his passing shots. I
don't know. I wish I could be like him. I know it's going to be impossible, no? It's
strange, but I like the way he was, at least on the court.  
 
Q. You were talking about soccer. Says here you're a big Barcelona FC fan. Can you talk
about your soccer interest?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: In Spain it's big. It's the biggest thing we have in sports. We all like
to play soccer and we all like to watch soccer. I'm a member of Barca because I live in
Barcelona, which is normal. If I live in Madrid, I would support Madrid. Since I live
there all my life, I believe it's kind of normal. 
 
Q. What does it mean to be a member?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: A member from the club.  
 
Q. The club that actually fields the team?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Yeah. We have like 100,000 members. This tournament is like 105,000. You
don't know the stadium?  
 
Q. No. 
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: It's amazing. It's like a good atmosphere when they have really good
matches, European Cup, or Barca-Madrid, good rivalry. 
 
Q. That's the big rivalry?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Yes. 
 
Q. What's the team in Madrid?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Real Madrid. Barcelona is called Barca. 
 
Q. Your family is in the night club business?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: No, no, no. My brothers and my really good friends, they enjoy the night
in Barcelona. Actually, my girlfriend is here. She called them to Barcelona on the mobile
phone. They were in the night club. They said, "Hello, how are you?" I was
talking to them. They were excited, knew I won. They wanted to talk with me. That's why I
spent some time with them. It's difficult to catch them because of the time. On a regular
day, they would be sleeping. Since it's a Friday night, it's Friday night in Barcelona,
it's a party. 
 
Q. What night club would you go to in Barcelona?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: I don't know. Regular ones that we go. Nothing special. Something we
feel comfortable. 
 
Q. Do you dance at these night clubs?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: I'm a bad dancer, but sometimes I dance. 
 
Q. What did it finally take to start getting your health back? You took antibiotics.
Was it rest?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Yes. You need to rest. As a human being, you cannot just keep on going
the whole time. Sometimes you need to enjoy your life. Especially for us, we are from a
different country, we live in Spain, we live in Barcelona. We have a living there. We like
to go to the cinema, then go to Barca stadium. We have dinner like 11 o'clock on Saturday,
then go out. We spend the whole night with our friends, with your family, with your
girlfriend. The next day, you wake up like three or four in the afternoon, you don't care.
You just enjoy. That's why sometimes you like to do that, not because you want to go out,
but sometimes you like to be home because we have family and friends. Sometimes tennis is
really important, but it's not the main thing. For me, tennis is huge, it's really
important in my life, it's the best thing I ever had, but I also like to enjoy my life
with my family, my girlfriend, my friends. 
 
Q. Did you need special treatment for fatigue?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Just rest. It's a difficult thing to came back. You see that you're
having a lot of fun, it's difficult to come back. Because you love tennis, you just made
the effort again. 
 
Q. Did they ever identify what the virus was that you had?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: No. It was kind of fatigue, physically and mentally. Everything, it's
difficult. I mean, we have to do a lot of things in Spain. Tennis, it becomes really
popular. Fortunately for us, we have to do a lot of things. That's why we spend a lot of
time with interviews, with TV shows, photograph sessions, everything, commercials I did.
Everything is great, you enjoy that. At the same time, you like to have some time for you.
You never find the time. That's why it was difficult for me to keep on going last year.
Even as I said yesterday, I didn't drop to 200. I stay like Top 30, which -- I don't know
if it's a good ranking, but it's still Top 30.  
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Semis at Super Masters Series in Rome, quarters at the French Open. Even
if it was a bad year. If you compare from '98, which I finished No. 3, maybe it was a bad
year. But you cannot compare just by the ranking. Maybe last year I was even happier
because I have much time off.  
 
Q. Has there been any problems at all since you came back? Have you felt it at all?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: No, no. No problems. The only problem is to try to win. That's the only
problem you find on the court, that everybody likes to win. Of course, you need to fight
every game and every point. You see at the draw, when you come to play at this tournament,
you cannot say, "These guys." You just want to go match-by-match. It's always
the same, but it's the only way to win. You can ask any player from this tournament. I
believe none of them will say, "Yeah, I see that my draw, this guy lost." That
doesn't exist.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT