TMS - INDIAN WELLS
March 15, 2000
Alex Corretja
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 GREG SHARKO: Alex moves into the third round where he will face Fabrice Santoro. He has
a 4-1 lifetime head-to-head over Santoro.  
 
Q. It must seem a fairly long way from Love, Love and 1 against Hewitt, which is the
last time I saw you, probably a lot of other people, too?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Well, yeah, that match especially was difficult for me at the beginning.
But then we were lucky that we played Davis Cup afterwards. I start to feel much better on
the court. We play on clay, we play in Spain, and I won quite easy against Gaudenzi. So I
start to come back again and try to move a little bit better than before. My game didn't
show maybe my best in Australia, that was for sure, but it's always difficult to pass
through these moments. It is nice to see that I'm still alive in the sport, no?  
 
Q. Is it well and truly behind you, what happened?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Of course. It can happen to me again, for sure. It can happen to other
players. But right now I'm just looking forward. Otherwise, as I said in Melbourne, I
would quit. I'm not like this kind of person. I already said in Melbourne that I won't
feel like humiliated or something even if I know it was a terrific day for me. But it
happens, no? We have to see that we are sportsmen, and it can happen to everybody.  
 
Q. I would imagine coming through a tough fight would help restore quite a bit of
confidence?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Yeah, I think it was a helluva match. It was beautiful. I'm glad also to
see that Pat is coming much better. I think he was playing some really good tennis. It was
kind of difficult match for both because none of us were playing maybe too good before
this match. Today it was good for me, but I hope it's going to be good for Pat, as well. I
think he realized that he's playing his best again, at least from the last six months.
That's good. That's good for him and for me especially, no, because when you win a match
against Rafter on hard courts, it always gives you confidence because we don't have to
forget that he's one of the best players on this surface.  
 
Q. Did you feel like you were in control today? It seemed like you were pretty much
dictating the points. When Pat came to the net, had you a good passing shot. Seemed like
you were one step ahead of him the whole time. 
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: I think from the baseline, I was much better. That's for sure. From the
net was difficult because he was playing some unbelievable volleys, he was serving pretty
deep. It was difficult for me to passing him. I guess at the end he was a little tired,
and I take advantage of that. Maybe I could finish earlier. 5-4, deuce, I had some
chances. But still, he also had some chances in the third set. He had breakpoint, long
rally. It was a good match. I believe it was like entertaining for everybody, kind of
these matches that you wanted to play, you wanted to win. You never know, maybe tomorrow I
lose to Santoro. Right now I feel like I'm coming back to my best game. 
 
Q. How does it feel playing against someone like Rafter who is serve-and-volleying on
his first and second serve? Do you get into a groove?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Well, you got to get used to. In these days, everybody play their own
game. Maybe you can ask him how does he feel playing against a guy who is always on the
baseline. Everybody tries to play his best. I think he does this pretty well. It's
uncomfortable for the players because you got to be concentrate the whole time, you got to
try to return to his feet every time. That's not easy. But I believe the main key was that
I was moving pretty well, I was playing with a lot of topspin, pretty deep. I was moving
him all around. Maybe that's why at the end he was a little tired. I didn't want to close
the points like really early in the first or second set because I wanted to make him run
to see if he could keep on the court so long. I know he didn't play a lot for the last
couple months, so he might be tired, no? 
 
Q. Is that your tactic, try to make them run at the beginning of the match?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: It depends. Sometimes you try to do these tactics and the guy's coming
into the net. You got to find a way to play deep with enough, like, power not to let him
go to the net the whole time. You got to push him and try to see if you can damage his
game, if he gets tired, so maybe it's better for you. I think he had some breakpoints at
the end, and I served like my fastest serve ever, 131 miles an hour. I never did it
before. It is good news because when you are after two and a half hours, you can serve
like this, it feels great. 
 
Q. When you look at the draw, I think 10 of the 16 seeds are out of the tournament. 
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: I didn't know that. We don't look at the draw.  
 
Q. Only six seeds left. 
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: We don't look at the draw, never.  
 
Q. No?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: No, not the players. I believe everybody goes step-by-step,
match-by-match. That's always the same thing. It seems like it's a tape inside of our
hearts, you know, like saying the same thing every time. But it is like this. You cannot
just look at the draw. Who looks at the draw? Maybe you go tomorrow, loss to your mom. You
never know that. That's serious. 
 
Q. Let's say Agassi, Kiefer, Kafelnikov are eliminated, you don't say, "This is
maybe my big chance"? 
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: No, you never say. You just want to win like in these tournaments I
believe six matches. I just won two. I need four more to be as happy as I can be. It's
impossible to look at the draw just thinking about Agassi lost and Kafelnikov, too. What
about Santoro? I play him tomorrow, you know. I got all respect for him and all the
players on this draw.  
 
Q. Pat was saying after his previous match that he's still been holding back a little
bit on the serve. Didn't see much sign of that tonight. 
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: You know, I think he served quite well, especially first two sets. Maybe
he slow down a little bit at the end. I don't know if he was hurting himself a little bit
or sore or something. But I don't know, you should ask him. I ask him just right away when
we finish, when we shake hands, I ask him about it. He said, "Well, at the end it was
kind of sore a little bit." But I don't know exactly.  
 
Q. You didn't sort of feel early on that he was holding back?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: No, of course I didn't feel that way. 
 
Q. Didn't look like it. 
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: No, no.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT