THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 21, 1999
Alex Corretja
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Tough match today?

ALEX CORRETJA:  Yes, really tough.  But I'm still in the tournament.  That's always good.  It was tough to come back.  I was not feeling so well after losing the second set so easy, still a break down in the third.  I kept confident in myself, trusted in myself, and that's why I won, even if I didn't play so well.


Q.  Why have you struggled so far this year?  I read someplace where you don't really like the early part of the year as much as the latter parts.  If that's true, why is that?

ALEX CORRETJA:  No, I mean, the beginning of the year I was playing okay, but I came to Australia with not too much practice after I won in Hannover.  I had many things to do in Spain.  After I played finals in Sydney, I just felt exhausted.  I couldn't play good tennis anymore.  I didn't have power.  That's why I lost early in Australia.  Afterwards, I have some appointments with Dubai and Rotterdam.  I came there, was fighting as much as I could, but I didn't play any good tennis.  Mentally and physically I was really tired.  Afterwards, I prepared pretty well Indian Wells.  I was playing really well.  Still I lost against the champion of the tournament.  I was 6-4, 4-1 up.  I had many chances.  It's obvious that after one month, I didn't play so many matches, I came here struggling a little bit.


Q.  How does the Davis Cup type atmosphere that was going on out there affect you?

ALEX CORRETJA:  I think it was a really nice atmosphere out there.  The bad thing is sometimes they confuse what it is to support his player, to have respect for the opponent, no?  Is it good if they show some emotions, but they should know how to react against the other player.  Sometimes they're talking to you many times.  It hasn't to be like this.  But it's still a good atmosphere.  I have fun.  At least I have fun with them.  I told them just to be quiet, to have fun, but don't start to yell to the other crowd.  They were shouting to the other people.  That was not too good. 


Q.  You came into this tournament with a chance to reach No.  1.  Actually, there are five players in the tournament to do that.  What does it say for men's tennis when there are that many players bunched together?

ALEX CORRETJA:  I think it's good to tennis to have some changes and see every week a couple of players has the chance to become No.  1.  But still now the power is for Moya who is the No.  1.  He has the control under his hands.  I don't think about it because I think this time it's going to be really difficult for me to get to No.  1 this week, so I don't think about it.


Q.  Why do you think that?

ALEX CORRETJA:  Why?  Because I'm not playing that well.  At the same time I'm defending semifinals from last year.  I will have to do it very, very well, just maybe winning the tournament, then wait for the others.  So I don't see myself being No.  1 after Lipton. 


Q.  Doesn't sound like a lot of confidence there. 

ALEX CORRETJA:  That's the way it is right now.  That's realistic.  It's not "not confidence," it's realistic.


Q.  Does any of that realism come out in your double's match yesterday?  I noticed you got a code violation for the first time. 

ALEX CORRETJA:  Yeah.  I think they're losing a little control of the situation with coaching things, warnings.  I think they pay more attention in the small things instead of making more enjoyable for everybody, you know.  Yesterday I was kind of mad because I didn't do anything.  It was during a point where I cannot reach a ball from Tarango.  I was back from the net, so I went to hit it like this (indicating).  I saw I didn't have any chance to put it on the court, so I hit it off the court.  They give me a warning for that.  They make you react, it makes me feel bad.  I came to the umpire, "The match was being really easy, really nice and clean, so don't give me a warning for this because it makes me feel bad."  He say, "You know that, it's not fair, you have to try to put the ball on the court."  I say, "If I can't do it, I can hit it anywhere I want during the point."  Next point I hit it out the court on purpose.  He give me a penalty point.  It was clear he was going to give it to me.  I was really disappointed because I don't like to react bad.  It was not my fault the first time.  I think if they won't have the pressure from the supervisors, they will not react like this.  But on this time, as I said, they have like something in their heads going on like they more concentrate on watching your coach, if he is doing something, than watching the lines.  That's because they put a lot of pressure to them.  I think that shouldn't be like this because it makes no sense. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT