ATP Tour World Championship
November 29, 1998
Alex Corretja
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Where do you get the energy from?

ALEX CORRETJA: Well, I think it's from the years that I've been working so hard. So I
was just trusting in myself. Even if I was losing two sets to love down, I was still
thinking that I could win this match. It sounds strange, but I was thinking about
Lendl-McEnroe Roland Garros final like '84 or something. At that time Lendl was my idol.
He just came back after two sets to Love down, and he was beating McEnroe. Today I was
thinking like, "Come on, try to do like your idol. You're losing against a really
talented player, Moya." At that time it was McEnroe. "Try to find some energy
from somewhere and try to think about your tennis and try to push him to see if he's going
to be able to finish in straight sets." I think I had a couple of good chances. I
took it. Even if I was losing 3-1 in the fifth, I still think that I could win. And even
if I was serving for the match, I had match point, I couldn't make it, I still thinking,
"Okay, come on, you can win it." That's why I think I win, because otherwise I
would have lose easily.

Q. At Roland Garros this year you said it was hard to play such a close friend in such
a big, important match. What's changed in six months?

ALEX CORRETJA: Well, I think I learned a lot from that loss, especially because I was
playing against Carlos. It was the first really big final for me in my whole career. I
didn't know how to focus it. I was playing against him. He is my friend. As I said
afterwards, I said, "If I would play another big final, I will try to play in a
different way." I think today, even if I was losing two sets to Love down, I think I
was playing different. I was not playing really good tennis, but mentally I was still on
the court. On that time, when I was two sets to Love down, I was just waiting to finish
and to lose, and to embrace to him. Today was not the story. I was just thinking,
"Come on, I want to win, I want to win." That power, I took it from my heart,
and from my work, and also from the family who die like a couple of weeks and a couple of
months ago. I was just like maybe talking to them and telling them like, "Come on,
give me power to finish this match and win it," because I wanted to celebrate it, and
I wanted to be the big champion; I don't want to be considered as a loser. I wanted to
realize that I can also be a big champion. I don't know if I am, but I feel like a big
winner today.

Q. Did you say you lost a relative a few weeks ago?

ALEX CORRETJA: Yes, like three weeks ago.

Q. Who?

ALEX CORRETJA: Like an uncle. Two months ago, during the US Open, an aunt. It was kind
of like tough time for us. Also, last Monday, my trainer's father also passed away, so it
was again a tough situation. He left from here, he went to the funeral, and he came back
again. It was a great effort also for him to be here with me.

Q. Do you amaze yourself? Having beaten Sampras yesterday, you came in here, looked
utterly spent, the ability to come back again the next day and play a match of this
emotion, do you surprise yourself that you've managed to win it?

ALEX CORRETJA: I think mentally I was really strong, or I am really strong. And through
all my life, I consider myself as a winner. Since I was really young, I was winning many
titles. I wanted to be in the nice part of the final. Even if I lost a couple, it's
obvious you cannot always win. There are many, many good players in this ATP Tour, so you
have to realize and you have to know that everybody works, so everybody deserves to win.
But today, I think it was my ambition who make me win, because otherwise I wouldn't win
it. I mean, it was the first time ever in my life where I came back after losing first two
sets. And I think it's a great emotion to do it in the finals of this event.

Q. Leconte at Wimbledon?

ALEX CORRETJA: Maybe, but he retired. Still, it was a good win. But this is special, I
guess. That was first round in Wimbledon, after I lost. I think it's like a little bit of
a difference winning the championships here in Hannover, against Moya who beat me this
year like three times. It seems amazing but I couldn't beat him a set. Today when I beat
him the third set, I said, "Come on, this is the first set you win this year to
Carlos, so try to push him and see if he can play better than you." I think it was
really close, he was trying hard, but I think I deserved to win because I was trying to
find the win. That's why I was so happy at the end. Yesterday if I didn't do anything,
it's because I said that I wanted to save some energies for today. That's what I did. If
yesterday maybe I would have make a big celebration, today after losing first two sets, I
would say, "Okay, that's big enough, it's finals, beat Pete yesterday, don't put too
much pressure to you." I didn't meant to finish with a small trophy. I wanted to
finish with this one.

Q. Who were the guys that you did the dive with?

ALEX CORRETJA: My brothers and my friends from Barcelona. That was fun, you know
(laughter). I have to see the doctor tomorrow to see how is my knee. But, still, I think
it's worth it. If you allow me, I have a special call from Spain, from the King to Spain.
If you allow me, it's a great moment for me. I want to share with you. It's the president.
(laughter). (Telephone call taken.) Sorry, guys, I think it's special. It doesn't happen
many days.

Q. Juan Carlos called already to you?

ALEX CORRETJA: Well, his daughter called me this morning to give me good luck. He said
that he would call, but maybe he didn't find the time. He will do it for sure. He did it
many times for sure already.

Q. You beat in this tournament Sampras. Now you are No. 3 in the ranking. What will be
your goal in the next year?

ALEX CORRETJA: Well, I didn't know if I would win I would go to No. 3 in the ranking.
It's a great feeling just thinking that it's my highest ranking ever. Finishing like this,
it's great. Of course, I think I will try to still working hard, and try to see if I can
make the No. 1. I know it's going to be really tough and really difficult. But still if
I'm No. 3, it's because I can be No. 1. Maybe I will have to improve much more things on
my tennis, like be more consistent with my serve, or have maybe a big weapon, like as big
a weapon as my forehand could work maybe better. But still I'm happy what I've been doing.
I'm not going to ask to myself to be No. 1. I'm just going to try to do what I've been
doing, working hard, and try to see if I can make No. 1. It will not be an obsession for
me. Already I think I did a lot. I will try to stay as I am. I don't want to change
anything just to be No. 1.

Q. The ATP World Championship will move in the year 2000. What do you think about the
idea of maybe holding it in Barcelona?

ALEX CORRETJA: Well, for sure it would be perfect for us, no? If you play in Barcelona,
it's always great. I think this tournament is just unbelievable. I mean, there are just
like eight players playing here, the best eight from the year. Maybe even if there were a
couple of injuries, doesn't matter, it's a big event anyway. At the same time, I want to
thank the people, because they were treating me so well here, especially during the final.
I was losing, and they still were like thinking that maybe I could make a comeback. They
were like supporting me so much. So maybe I forgot to say that on the court because I was
a little nervous and I wanted to mention all my family, all these people. But still I
think they were really important for me today. Of course, everybody from my part of the
world supporting me, but the people were just trying to make me see as a winner. I think I
wanted to thank them.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT