ATP Tour World Championship
November 28, 1998
Alex Corretja
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Difference between this court and clay court, are you sure you can play unbelievable
also on fast court now? 
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Yes. It's a great feeling for us and for our tennis to have again a big
final between two friends, after two players. It's great because this is not clay. We are
just clay court players, as everybody told us all around the world. Unfortunately for the
people, we just don't play well on clay, and we can play well everywhere. I think they
have to show some respect, because I never call American guy hard court player. Right now
we are realizing that we can play well everywhere. 
 
Q. Just a little while ago, Carlos said he won't have any friends on the court
tomorrow, be it you, Sampras, God or his father; he'll be fighting to the death. What are
your comments?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: I think it's a great mentality, and I hope I'm not going to know anybody
on the court tomorrow as well. I hope I'm going to go on the court, try to play my tennis,
try to forget that Carlos is my friend. I hope the experience from the French Open is
going to help me tomorrow. At that time I couldn't play my game. I was just thinking about
our friendly; I didn't play good tennis. So in this time, I'm going to try to move and to
play well, to play aggressive, and to try to see if I can do my game, even if I have to
play against Carlos, which I know him very well. 
 
Q. During the match, you have a thought of the previous tough match with Sampras at the
US Open?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: No, honestly not. I think it's unbelievable that we just play again
another epic match because it's just fantastic, I think for the spectators as well, this
emotion till the end. On that time, I was the guy who lost 7-6 in the fifth. I had match
point. Today he had a couple of match points, and he couldn't make it, and I won. I can
realize that God was fair, and he gave me the win this time after two years just hearing
about everybody about that match, everybody remembering, even on the street, about that
match. So I hope right now I'm going to turn it around and everybody's going to remember
me, maybe about winning this title, but at least winning Sampras 7-6 in the third in the
semifinal of the Masters. 
 
Q. Did you see Sampras tired at the end of the match?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Well, I think he was a little bit tired, but he was really emotion. He
had a couple of match points. He got -- especially on one he had some good position to win
the point. It's obvious when you are really close to win, you always get a little bit
tighter. He could finish the match because he had an easy forehand in the middle of the
court, but he couldn't play a winner. I just play a good passing shot, and he just miss
the volley. It was great because I kept my concentration to the end, and I wanted to win
this time. 
 
Q. Here we see a lot of injured or retired players. You and Carlos seem to be the best
physical players. How you explain this?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Because we work really hard. We are traveling the whole year with our
physical trainer, with our coach. We try to do also a lot of fitness because our game is
not just to serve, and serve and volley, to make 25 aces per match. So we need to work
really hard. That's why we are really fit. 
 
Q. Have you suffered to be treated only like a clay court player?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: No, I didn't suffer. But at the end you get a little bit tired always to
hear the same questions in the press conference, like, "You are just a clay court
player," when you show you can win on all the courts, like I did this year. I won
Dubai on hard courts, I won Indianapolis, I won Lyon. People are still asking me in the
press conference, "Well, because you are a clay court player, you cannot win
indoors," two weeks after I won in Lyon, that was in Moscow, for example. You get
kind of disappointed. At the same time, you feel like the people doesn't know anything
about tennis. Yeah, it's true, it's like this. It's kind of a pity sometimes. But I was
just trying to improve my game all around the world, all around the surface, especially on
hard courts and indoors because the big events are there. If you are a good clay court
player, it's not enough to be at the top of the game. So you have to be playing really
well on all surfaces. It's right now what I've been doing. I think I have much more points
on hard court than on clay this year, even if I'm a clay court player. 
 
Q. Do you think on this surface your match with Carlos will be different compared with
the French Open final?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: I hope it's going to be different, because that time I lost. I hope
tomorrow I can beat him. It's going to be different because here you can win more extra
points with your serve, hitting some winners from the baseline. For sure it's going to be
a tough match for both, because we're not going to play 40 aces each. We will have to run
a lot. It's going to be tough, especially because it's the best of five. It's going to be
maybe the last day of the year playing a Tour event. Especially I will have to make the
last effort. 
 
Q. The three match points in the third set, what were you telling yourself at those
moments? Were you just hoping for the best, hoping he was going to miss? Did you feel you
had to come up with something?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: No. I was just trying to play the regular point. I was trying to play
with my first serve. If you see, I didn't play a hard serve; I was just playing kick
because I wanted to keep him outside from the net. I wanted to keep him on the baseline,
to make him run, to make him think to win me that point. I didn't want to miss the first
serve and he would have a chance to come to the net and put all the pressure to me. I
wanted to keep him on the baseline and see if he could beat me from the baseline, and he
couldn't. He had good chances, but he couldn't make it. I think it was good tactic from my
part. 
 
Q. Although you won in Lyon and you knew you could play very well on hard, if somebody
told you last week that you were going to beat Sampras in the semifinal of the Masters and
play Moya in the final?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: I wouldn't think it for sure. It would be like a miracle, I would say.
The miracle becomes true. I said to one of the Spanish guys, "Maybe the future will
take us together to the final, to Moya and me," after we start the week here in
Hannover. But it was kind of like kidding. I didn't realize that it could be truth. Right
now, I'm glad to be in the final. I'm glad to play against Carlos because he's my friend
and I'm happy about him, that he's in the final. But this time I will try to just beat
him. 
 
Q. How important was your victory in Lyon for the results you had here?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Well, it was -- I think it was the main reason I can play good tennis
here because I never won two straight matches in a row in indoors. Mentally, it was a
little bit tough for me. At the same time in Spain, we don't have that many courts, we
just have one, unfortunately. I think we are superstars because we just have one court and
we can still play the finals of the Masters. We have really good luck or it's because we
can play really good tennis. It was really important to go there and to win, so I hope
somebody's going to hear me finally and they're going to make some courts, not just
because of us, but for the future of our Spanish tennis, it's really important. We work
really hard. I think we are not just baseliners. We can play really good tennis at the
same time. We hope in the future we're going to have some courts. 
 
Q. I read something about creating a Catalan team instead of the Spanish team. Is it
true?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: At the moment it is not truth. There's people that want to see if it's
possible. At this moment, I cannot decide it. We will have to see if I will have to play
for Catalonia or Spain, I will have to decide. At this moment, I cannot go to one side or
the other. 
 
Q. When you won in Dubai and Indianapolis, both times you said your next goal was
indoor. Did it come faster than you thought?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Well, it comes really fast because I said that in Indianapolis maybe,
and two months later I'm here in the finals of the championship event. It comes fast, but
at the same time it comes slow because the last three years I've been struggling on
indoors. All that years that I've been practicing and losing first rounds, right now are
paying off my mentality and my game. That's why I'm playing better. I have to still play
better on this surface, but I think I'm doing much more than before. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT