ATP MASTERS SERIES- MADRID
October 18, 2004
Alex Corretja
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Do you think the match ended when Ferrer threw his racquet?

ALEX CORRETJA:  The match ends when it ends.  But you're right, I do think there was a point where he was affected.  During the first set, I don't think he was comfortable.  In fact, we talked about it in the locker room.  The ball was fast.  Conditions on the court were hard.  He was disheartened.  I think he was upset when he threw the racquet.  He was not concentrated.  But I was lucky I won in two sets and I'm happy.  Last week was good for me, and this is beginning well. 

Q.  What are your expectations for this week? 

ALEX CORRETJA:  Not more than today's.  Actually, I've already told you, the ones that are high in the ranking have difficulties every match.  What about me, that I'm low in the ranking?  I have more reasons to be calm and be concentrated, as I've been today.  That's all I can do.  Now I have a great player before me.  I'm lucky I won today.  I hope to win more.  That would be a great victory for me. 

Q.  After all your hard work and after being in the shadows actually, you're almost out of the tunnel right now, how do you feel?

ALEX CORRETJA:  Well, actually the tunnel, I've been through it.  Well, when one is working hard without success, you expect more.  Sometimes you don't get it, as has happened this year.  Maybe it's a matter of saturation of the years more than me being fit or unfit, because I'm comfortable playing.  Maybe mentally - before I had three hours' concentration that I don't have now.  Sometimes you have to keep up in the first set, then you have to change, have to use your serve, be intelligent.  If the rival is not intelligent enough in that moment, well, he pays the price.  That's something I have in my game.  I'm concentrated for a while, but sometimes I lose it.  If I'm concentrated, I'm dangerous as an opponent.  If not, I become a player as the rest. 

Q.  This year you've even had to play qualifying rounds.  However, you're also champion of Hannover.  What's happened?  Because sometimes people don't know what you're doing. 

ALEX CORRETJA:  Only someone that is with me, that sees me playing everywhere, knows what I'm doing.  But I'm happy with what I'm doing.  For the rest, everyone can think what they want.  I'm not doing this for anyone but for myself because I find myself comfortable when I'm playing.  I'm happy when I win, although I suffer when I am defeated.  But the day I clearly see I do not want to keep on playing, I'll retire - when I want, not when anyone else wants.  It is me the one that has to talk it over with my family, with my trainers.  I've played qualifying rounds, challengers.  I would play anything that makes me happy if I feel unhappy with it.  I'm happy being in Madrid, playing a Masters Series.  I cannot ask for anything else.  I'm a great player.  This is a day to be happy, because I've had few moments this year of happiness in tennis. 

Q.  The personal aspects, are you happy?  With your family, are you okay? 

ALEX CORRETJA:  Happier than ever.  I think it's the best moment in my life.  Presently, I have a girl now, a child.  You know I'm expecting another one - or my wife is.  I think that's impressive.  I think that's the most important thing, the thing that gives me happiness, to be at home.  Besides, if things go well in tennis, that's good, too.  Everyone wants to give their best at work.  That's maybe the saddest aspect of my life, when results do not come, because I want things to go well.  Last year and the year before have been difficult.  It's not because I don't want to give my best, but it's maybe a matter of luck.  I've been on the circuit many years traveling, and it's tough.  That's actually what explains that some players are missing now because they're burned out.  Physically and mentally, it's very, very tiring - even for great players. 

Q.  You're saying you're burned out, and that's why you don't play.  Can you tell us your opinion about the people that aren't here?

ALEX CORRETJA:  Of course, it's not good for the tournament.  It's a pity that there are so many people that pulled out, four or five of the best players that pulled out.  I don't know what the solution could be.  I'm not a wizard.  But my experience tells me that the pace of tennis in this world is not easily taken.  You have peaks.  Sometimes you're up, sometimes you're down.  We are humans.  One often has to take rests.  You have to be prepared to win.  If not, maybe it's better not to come.  The tennis year ends in November, and that's one year after another.  How many years can you stand this schedule?   We put up with many things.  It's very complicated to train and travel, be physically and mentally fit.  But we are privileged people because we dream of this, and we've achieved it.  We're very lucky, indeed.  We're young people that have reached their dreams.  But it's also intense and tough. 

Q.  A change of subject.  There's been controversies, the thing of using models.  Do you think you'll be distracted as a tennis player because of the models that are being introduced in the evening matches? 

ALEX CORRETJA:  I personally don't care about this subject.  I think the tournament organizers can decide whatever they feel is better for the tournament.  If it's spectacular or not, I do not care.  Controversy, I haven't seen that either, not even in the locker rooms.  So we don't care.  Distracted?  I don't think you can be distracted when you watch the ball and that's all.  The ball is the same, so you don't really care as a player.  On the court, the only thing you look at is your coach, your trainer, and then the ball, of course.  If they throw it as they should, that's all. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT