ATP Tour World Championship
November 26, 1998
Alex Corretja
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Pretty tough match. I suppose in the third set, it just began to go Tim's way.
Before that, it was really anybody's match, wasn't it? 
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Yeah. It's obvious it was a really close match, especially first two
sets. We had a couple of chances, both of us, especially him when he was serving up 3-1 in
the second set, then after that, I recover. Since that point, I start to play really well
again. After I won the second set, unfortunately for me, I just got really relaxed. I
thought he might go a little bit down. He didn't. He just kept his level. He was a better
player. He kept putting pressure to me. He really play really well. 
 
Q. The key, it seemed to be, a number of times he was coming in, attacking you, forcing
you to take risks.
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Yeah, for sure. If he stays back, it's obvious normally I'm going to
beat him most of the time. So every time I was playing a short ball, he was trying to come
into the net. He was really successful. He was playing really good volleys. He was moving
really well on the net. As well, he didn't make that many mistakes from the baseline. So
it was tough. Myself, I didn't serve that well. I make a lot of mistakes with my first
serve. It didn't help my game because I was the whole time under pressure, especially when
I missed the first serve, then he was coming into the net the whole time. 
 
Q. With so much at stake, when you were playing a match like that, how much does the
extra tension actually get to you? Can you feel it point by point or not?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: No. I was just trying to play my regular tennis, try to move him a lot,
try to play deep so it doesn't let him go to the net easy. I think the worst thing I did
was that I didn't return very well with his second serve, especially in the first set. So
I didn't take advantage of his errors. I couldn't put a lot of pressure to him. So if I
could win some of the points when he was serving with the second serve, maybe it could be
better for me. At the end, it was difficult because he was serving harder and he was
putting a lot of pressure. But during the first set, I think I had a couple of chances,
and I didn't take it. 
 
Q. With Albert coming, as well, the thing is that the situation for you is far from
over. You can still get to the semifinals. You play Albert tomorrow. Is that going to be a
strange experience?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: That's the good side of this part. When you lost a match, normally you
just go home. In this tournament, you still have the chance to go and to advance into the
tournament. As they told me, if I can beat Albert tomorrow, maybe I can still go to the
semifinals. I think we have to wait to see how the scores go. But still it's good news. If
I can beat him and go to the semifinals, even if I lost today, it's always good. 
 
Q. Albert has never won a match indoors. We don't know how he's doing at the moment.
You know how difficult that can be, because once you overcame that by beating Tim in Paris
last year indoors, your all-around game has improved.
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: It's obvious that I improve my game on indoors. I'm playing with the
best players in the world. I think I'm playing a good tennis. But even that is going to be
tough. You have to play Albert. He never won a match indoors. Well, we have to wait to see
if he won today or not. It's obvious that it's not easy. It's a strange situation. It's
not going to be easy either for me because I will have the whole pressure to beat him. I
will try just to play a regular match and to see what's going on in there. 
 
Q. As chairman of the ATP Player Council, you are supposed to represent the players'
interests. How do you go about it?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Right now? 
 
Q. In general, just in general, just a few words. Do the players come up with
suggestions, improvements they'd like to see on the Tour?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: What did you say? 
 
Q. Your activity as the chairman of the ATP Players Council -
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: But I'm not anymore. 
 
Q. When you used to be.
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Maybe you can ask Todd Martin who is the president right now. 
 Well, I was trying to just be fair with everybody, try to do the good things for the
Tour, try to help the kids and the supporters, spectators. That was the main reason to be
there, and also to have a balance with the clay court players and with the hard court
players, to try to find the good things for everybody. I don't know. I cannot tell you
much. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT