ATP Tour World Championship
November 25, 1998
Alex Corretja
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Were you surprised when Andre came up and shook hands? 
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Yes, a lot. I didn't realize that he had a problem during the match. I
think he was playing good tennis. The match was really tough, so I was really surprised
when he just came and shake hands with me. 
 
Q. Did you know it was bad, what happened to him?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Actually, I was the guy that forced him. Yeah, because I was practicing
with him. He just fall down with one ball. After two games he told me better to stop
because he had some problems. I knew it already that he had some problems on his back or
stomach, I don't know. I didn't suspect it was that bad. He didn't look like this on the
court. Unfortunately for him and for the tournament, he's a big player and it would be
good for everybody that Andre could play. But tennis is like this, and we have to accept
it.  
 
Q. At this time of the year, many players seem to be injured. Are you fully fit, 100%?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: (Knocking on head). Well, he wasn't injured, he just fall down and get
injured. It's obvious that we've been playing through the whole year; really a long
season. The guys who are here is because we won more matches than the other ones. So it's
normal that maybe you feel pain somewhere on your body. But you have to make the last
effort because this is the greatest event of the year. It deserve to be good here. At the
same time, it's obvious that maybe they will have to see if we can rest a little bit more
because I think this is too much, starting on January 1st, finishing in December. 
 
Q. Prospects of playing Tim Henman. What are your thoughts about that match?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Well, of course, it's going to be a tough match, as well, as every match
here in Hannover. Well, the funny thing, it's the first match I ever won indoors was last
year against him in Bercy. So I would like to repeat, of course. It will be great for me.
I think he's in really good shape, and it's going to be an attractive match. I think he's
going to try to come into the net as much as possible. I'm going to try to pass him as
much as possible. It's going to be two different styles of tennis. 
 
Q. You think he's a tougher opponent now than he was when you beat him in Bercy last
year?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Well, he was a really good player at that time. But, of course, right
now he's a better player. He won a couple of tournaments this year. He's going to be
tougher. But I think I'm also a better player on this surface. 
 
Q. What about your own game today? You seemed to be serving very well, except for the
double-fault on the breakpoint. How do you rate your game?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: I don't know if you see it like me, I think it was a really good match.
I was serving really well. In the second set, I was trying to put a lot of pressure to his
second serve. I start to play a couple of winners. I was trying to move him a little bit
more. I came into the net a couple of times. I think I was playing just really good
tennis, so even if he retired, I think I was in control of the match because I was 2-1 up
in the third, up a break. I don't know if it affects himself before, but during that time
I didn't see it. It's obvious that it's a pity sometimes when you won like this. But I
think at the same time that the match was already really close. 
 
Q. You were a bit of an ace machine out there, weren't you? Have you ever hit so many
aces?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Well, I've been serving better. Maybe I have to serve more consistent,
because sometimes I serve well and the next day I don't. Hopefully tomorrow I'm going to
keep the same level. I think it's great for my game to serve like this. It helps a lot.
Then you return that much easier. You don't have that much pressure. 
 
Q. Last days was a great discussion about the future of tennis. What do you think about
it? What should be changed?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Well, it's difficult to say just in one word. The people from the Tour
are just working a lot to make a big difference, big changes. The only thing I would like
to change is just to have some rest sometimes because I think it's too much. That's why
tennis players, they just get tired of tennis and sick of tennis maybe younger than other
sports, because you don't have time to rest, you don't have time to enjoy your private
life sometimes. I think we should try to reduce a little bit the calendar. I know it's
tough and it is like this right now, but sometimes it's kind of difficult. 
 
Q. What do you think about changes in balls or racquets or something like that?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: I don't know. I mean, it's normal if you see indoor matches, the ball is
going to go faster, and the points are going to be shorter than on clay. We should try to
reduce the speed on the indoor courts and maybe put it faster on clay to equalize,
everybody will have the same chances to play everywhere. We will have to forget about the
hard court players, clay court players, just think about the players, because we are on
the same Tour, and have respect for all of them. 
 
Q. What do you think about this particular court here? Is it a very fair court? Is it
slow enough?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Well, it's not too slow, but it's not too fast. I think it's a medium
surface. I think it's good for everybody, for the guys who wants to serve and volley, or
even if you want to stay back, you have the chance to play. It's much better than other
indoor events that I've been playing, that I've been playing for the last couple of years,
where they were really fast, and they were maybe impractical to play tennis. I think here
it's much better. It's better for the show, for the spectators. I think the players enjoy
much more.  
 
Q. If you have to choose a surface, you still prefer clay?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Well, if you grow up on clay, it's normal that you prefer clay. But as
you see my results this year, I think I won much more on hard courts than on clay. It's
kind of controversial a little bit, but it seems that I improve a lot on every surface.
But I would prefer to play on clay because I think I'm better prepared to play on clay
than the other players, not the Spanish guys who are maybe the best on clay, but just for
the other guys, I think they're not prepared because they don't have a lot of passions,
and physically maybe they're not that fit. 
 
Q. You hit a ball boy accidentally. You came up to him. Did you ask him if it was bad?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: I was asking him if he was feeling okay. I didn't want to kill anyone on
the court, well, not out of the court or on the court. I don't know. I'm really sorry that
I hit him. But I thought that the other ball was going good. If you see the post from the
net, it's really close from the line. That ball was going from outside line to inside. It
was a pity that I hit him, but at the same time I lost one point. I was just trying to ask
him if he was feeling okay. I said also to Rudi to maybe replace him because maybe he
could have had some, I don't know, some dizzy or something. But fortunately everything was
okay. Sorry to his mother. 
 
Q. You didn't want an overrule?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: No. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT