ATP Tour World Championship
November 23, 1998
Alex Corretja
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What do you think of the draw? 
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: I hope that I am ready to play any of the players that are here. It's
difficult for every player. Doesn't make a difference to play in one group or another
group. 
 
Q. A lot of people say that you might not be the favorite of the tournament. You won a
tournament on hard court. What do you say?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: It's obvious people are thinking about the other players. If we were
playing on clay, maybe they would think about me. At this moment we are playing on hard
court or GreenSet. It's normal that they think about other players. At the same time, I've
been playing better this year. I won a title already. I think I'm quite prepared to do it
well. I know it's not going to be easy. At the same time, I think I have some chances. 
 
Q. What do you think about the changes on the ATP Tour? Do you think the suggested
changes are necessary?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: They're doing maybe these changes because they are necessary. I would
just hope it's fair for everybody. They'll have to try to think about players, hard court
players, clay court players. We are all in the same group, on the same Tour. 
 
Q. What do you think about Boris Becker's ideas to change the game?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: I don't know exactly what is the story. I don't really know. I just
heard some rumors. 
 
Q. Have you played more on hard courts this year?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Yes, much more than before. I was practicing for the last couple of
years on hard courts. I was making a lot of efforts. I was practicing my aggressive game.
I was improving a lot. It seems that all these efforts pay off right now, and I'm really
glad about it. At the same time I was kind of tired that everybody called me a clay court
player. Still the people call me clay court player, but I just laugh when they tell me
like this. 
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: I don't care anymore. I'm kind of tired to hear people say, "You're
just a clay court player." Or even when they call Americans hard court players. We
are all in the same group, we are on the same Tour, and we are just players. I think we
should consider the guys as professionals. It's obvious that you were born in Barcelona
and you grew up on clay, you will be playing better there. If you were born in the States,
it's normal that you play better on hard courts. But not because of this you have to be
called clay court or hard court players. We are just players. The other things are just
stupid things. It's obvious that you have maybe a preference to play on hard court or on
clay, but not because of that they don't have to respect you when you go to play a hard
court tournament. 
 
Q. What about the surface?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: It's a medium surface. I think it's quite good. Let's see when we play a
match because it's always a little faster, because we change balls every seven and nine
games. It's normal that it's a little faster. But it seems quite good. I hope it's going
to be fair for everybody. 
 
Q. Are you involved in charity work?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: When I have time, I try to help people, in Spain and around the world
when we are on the Tour. Sometimes you have the chance, I like to go there and visit the
kids because we help a lot and give to them some good spirit, and they see something
positive when they see people who are in good shape, play sports like tennis. They try to
grow well. That's what we're trying to do normally.  
 
Q. What do you think about the draw?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: In my personal group, I think I will have to play really good tennis.
It's obvious that will have to play Rios, Agassi and Henman. Two of them are baseline
players, they play real aggressive. The other is playing good serve and volley, puts a lot
of pressure to you the whole time. For sure it's going to be tough to win any of these
matches. 
 
Q. There's a possibility that Agassi may withdraw, which would mean Rusedski goes in.
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: That's a funny question because I was practicing with Agassi when he
hurt his back. I was playing a forehand to his forehand. He just fell down. I'm really
sorry about it. I felt a little bad. 
 
Q. We're not, it means Rusedski would get in.
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: For you maybe. I think it's better for everybody can play because he
deserve it. He's been playing well through the whole year. 
 
Q. People are talking about the fight for the No. 1 spot. Do you think that's all right
because it takes a bit of the pressure off?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: I don't even think about it. It's interesting for the spectators to see
the guy who can finish No. 1 in the world. Not especially for me. I don't think it's going
to make any difference honestly.  
 
Q. What about the surface?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: I think it's a good court, a medium court. Not too fast, not too slow. I
think it's fair for everybody, maybe for the guys who can play from the baseline, and also
maybe for the serve and volley. I think it's going to be good tennis. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT