US OPEN
September 8, 1998
Alex Corretja
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. I think we owe you a lot of respect that you kept fighting even in the third set.
Was there ever a point when you thought of actually quitting the match? I saw something
like after the first set that you were both very upset with the way the crowd left the
stadium and with the wind and the conditions. Was there a point when you said, "Let's
quit this, try to play sometime tomorrow"? 
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Was too long. I didn't understand anything. 
 
Q. Was there any point in the match there when you thought, "Let's just stop
there, I can't take this anymore? "
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: No, no, no. We have to play in any conditions. If it was windy, we have
to play with that. We cannot do anything. Unfortunately, it was difficult to play, but it
was for both players. We are not going to say, "Okay, let's go home, and tomorrow
we'll see." What about if tomorrow is gets worse or it's raining? This is not indoor
courts. 
 
Q. It was not even the weather. The audience, as well, the few people that were still
there. Have you ever played in front of no crowd like that?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: I don't know. It's kind of funny your questions. I'm going to tell you
that I was on the court. I'm not looking if the people is leaving or not. I agree. It was
cold, it was windy. The match was not too good. If I would be a spectator, I would leave
the same way. I don't know. 
 
Q. The first point of the third set, was that a miss-hit or taking out a little
frustration?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: No, it was on purpose. I'm not that bad. I could be really bad, but I
just wanted to hit it as hard as I could. I wanted to see if I could make another home
run, as well. 
 
Q. Trying to pump yourself up or a sign of giving up a little bit?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Just trying to hit one ball really hard, to take out my bad feelings
about losing that second set. At the same time, I was trying to hit as hard as I could to
see if I could just pass the stadium, and I couldn't. It was good effort. 
 
Q. Straight sets loss tonight I suppose is disappointing. Can you take anything
positive out of this tournament?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Yeah, the tournament was quite good. I mean, I came here one month ago.
My expectations were to do well. I play really good tennis in Indianapolis. I won the
tournament. Here I reach the fourth round, which is never easy. It's always nice to be in
the last rounds. At the same time, I feel I could be maybe playing better or something. I
didn't play my best tennis. Tonight it was really difficult to play. It was not the night
to show the people if you are a good player or not, just to try to win this round and to
see for the next one if it will be better. I was trying to push the ball on the court,
just try to fight and try to be concentrate. But if you had that many chances and you
cannot get any one of them, then it's impossible to win. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT