US OPEN
August 28, 1997
Alex Corretja
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Alex, you're the highest seeded player left in Pete Sampras' half of the bracket.
Have you allowed yourself to think of meeting him in the semifinals and having a rematch? 
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Are you kidding (laughter)? I didn't even know that we are just the
highest seeded remaining in the draw. I mean, we cannot see the draw, just far from the
next draw. It's so difficult to win one match here, just to think about the semifinals
would be stupid for both persons. As you see today, I mean, I won a match so difficult, so
I cannot think about the next round. I mean, just have to play one match by match and
let's see what's going on. 
 
Q. Possibly Krajicek next. What do you think?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Well, another tough round for me. I mean, I think I have a really tough
draw here this year, especially -- every year, because I always play against the good guys
here. But I've been playing well. I beat two good guys in the first two rounds, which it
means I'm also playing quite well. I just have to go on the court and try to play my
tennis and don't think about the opponent. I mean, I think I have to realize that my game,
it's improving a lot on hardcourts, and it's good for my tennis and good for myself. Maybe
he has to play also against Filippini, which is also a tough player. We'll see who is the
winner. 
 
Q. Alex, you've become somewhat of a fan favorite here because of what you did last
year.
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Well, I wish. Would be great to be one of the fans' favorite here in New
York. For sure, the people, they know me a little bit more than last year, especially
because two years ago I also play a great match against Agassi, and last year again
against Sampras. So I hope this year I play a great match against one of these top guys,
but I hope to win. 
 
Q. You said had you a hard time after Stuttgart this year, and therefore the hardcourt
season was not that good for you. Is this the best hardcourt tennis you're playing in a
while or since last year?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Yeah, probably since last year I didn't play that well on hardcourts,
especially at the beginning of the year I play quite bad on hardcourts. Then after I won
in Stuttgart, I got relaxed, I didn't want to play, I was like this a little bit, silly,
"I don't want to play. I don't want to fight anymore." You see I didn't win a
match. Seems doesn't matter your rankings, you just have to fight every match. Now I'm
fighting again, I'm trying to play better. That's why I won two matches already. 
 
Q. Alex, when you came here, you had a choice of playing doubles and getting more
hitting time, or not playing doubles and getting more rest. Why did you make the decision?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Because I arrange with my partner, Pablo Albano, to play all the
hardcourt season with him, and that's what I've been doing. We didn't play so well, so
didn't take so much of my time. And now I have one day to rest. I think the guys, we
didn't play today, so it's not a big deal. I mean, it's just one double per day. Maybe if
I get to the Finals in singles and doubles, I will be really tired. But it means also it
will be great. 
 
Q. Can you talk about your match today? You said earlier it was a tough match. The
first two sets looked like they could have gone either way. At the crucial points, you
came through. Can you talk about that?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Yes. The first two sets I've been playing maybe a little bit deeper and
I played stronger than in the third set. But also, from my point of view, he was playing
unbelievable tennis. I mean, he was hitting winners from every part of the court. He was
serving well. Sometimes he was playing double-faults, but his backhand was great, his
forehand was unbelievable, I couldn't just stay on the court and just try to play deep and
try to move him. But it was really tough. When he was returning as well, he was also put
pressure to me. It was not easy to play. I mean, for me it was one of the best matches I
play on hardcourts since maybe last year. And this year, one of the toughest ones. Even on
clay I think I never have an opponent like him who was hitting winners around the court.
Also I play against him at Monte-Carlo, I was down a set, 5-1, a couple of breakpoints.
Then I won 7-6. I beat him 6-0 in the third. It was unbelievable. He beat me 7-5, 6-0 in
Milano, at the beginning of the year. When he's playing against me, it's great, or my game
is good for him. I don't know. 
 
Q. When you are at home, is it easy for you to find hardcourt practice facilities?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Yes, hardcourt, at this moment. I'm going to say like for a thousand
times already that we don't have indoor courts. Let's see if the Federation hear me and
they build some. It's tough, because when we practice in Barcelona, it's always good
weather. Maybe it's not worth to it build indoor courts. We have hardcourts to practice.
It's not the same. When we play, we practice against the Spanish guys. We play different
tennis than others. On clay, I think it works, but on hardcourts, maybe we have to bring
some foreigners just to see how they play. They play differently. Attack second serve,
serve and volley most of the time. We need to practice with these guys. 
 
Q. How many miles an hour do you think you've added to your serve with a longer
racquet?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: I don't know. I'm playing with a long racquet actually, like a half
inch, maybe I'm serving a little bit harder, faster, but I don't know. Honestly, I don't
know. 
 
Q. Can you tell there's more pace on it?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: More what? 
 
Q. Can you tell there's more pace on your serve?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Yeah, for sure, it is. You have like this, half inch longer, then you
have more power because the distance from the net, you have much distance here higher, and
it's much better. So you have more power for sure. 
 
Q. But any trouble controlling it also?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Control? I'm not serving 150 miles per hour, that would be different.
I'm serving 115, 120 at the most. For me, it's not a big problem. I would like to have
even more power. 
 
Q. You had a lot -- he had a lot of success with your serve. In the second set he broke
you all four games.
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Yeah. 
 
Q. Then in the fourth set --
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: I need half inch longer also (laughter). 
 
Q. In the fourth set when you did hold, you needed 11 deuces. Can you talk a little bit
about that?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Yes. It was tough. That's where I was just fighting a lot because I knew
I need the confidence to see that I could win one service game. He broke me like three or
four times. At that time I couldn't win a game. I was just trying to do everything, serve
and volley, stay back, hitting serve, serve topspin. At the end I won that service game.
Then I think he just broke me once in the next set, and that's all. So at the end of the
match I was serving quite good. I had two breakpoints, I had maybe an ace, also a good
serve to his forehand. Seems like my serve was maybe working better at the end of the
match. 
 
Q. When did you start using this longer racquet?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: When? 
 
Q. When?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Well, it's funny. After I won Estoril, I was playing with the older
racquet, with the Wilson, but maybe shorter. Then I change it because I was practicing and
I felt that it was helping me a lot. I just change it after I lost in Barcelona against
Medvedev. I had to play doubles. It was a nice practice for me. I just tried it there.
Then I came to Monte-Carlo, I start to play. I play Finals there, so I saw that the
racquet was good. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT