GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP  CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 1997
Alex Corretja
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You seemed to have trouble getting into the flow of the match. What was the problem
in the first set? 
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Well, I guess I didn't play that bad to lose 6-1. I think I had many
chances. It was like 2-1 for him I had 40-15 on my serve and I lost it. Then I had, like,
breakpoint next game, then I lose it. Then 4-1 for him and I had three game points and I
lose it again. So, it was like 5-1 and it could be like -- so it was kind of a strange set
and then maybe I become a little bit disappointed. That is when I was losing like 6-1,
3-1, just really quickly because mentally I was like maybe a little bit mad and then,
well, I was trying to recover myself and was playing a little bit better the second set. I
was real -- it was really tough. He was playing better. He had the confidence that he was
in front of the score. 
 
Q. We were asking Alberto if it's easier or harder to play against a friend, someone
that you spend a lot of time with. How is it for you?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: I think it is a little bit hard to play each other because it is not
easy for us. You know, we know each other pretty well. We are pretty good friends. For me
especially, it is not easy. Many times we know where the guy is going to hit because of
the practice court, so sometimes it is not that funny, you are in an advantage, but
sometimes it is difficult because you never expect that shot. But, anyway, I think we have
to play each other many times because we have good rankings and we are playing in good
tournaments so we have to play against each other. 
 
Q. When you look at the bracket and you see you and Bruguera and Alberto are all
grouped together, does that disappoint you?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: We just try to see the draw and try to win our match. And, then we try
to see who is the next opponent. If it is Alberto or Sergi, we have to play against, we
will not say, no, this match, I am not playing (laughter). It is just like -- it is a bad
luck because here it is, I think 56 draw, I guess, and we are just three Spanish players
and all of us, we are in the same side of the draw, so it was a little bit bad luck. Maybe
like this week put one in the semifinals which is not bad.  
 
Q. If they play each other tomorrow, will you watch?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Well, I don't think so. I can see the match in my mind before they play. 
 
Q. Really?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Yeah. 
 
Q. Who would win?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Well, I didn't say I know who is going to win. I just said I can see the
match. Obviously I think it is going to be tough match for both and I don't know who is
going to win, but Sergi has to win also, so he has to play against Novak, which is not
easy. 
 
Q. Will you take us through the tiebreaker? You were playing well at that point, but
you didn't hold your serve at that point -- very quickly you are down 3-Love, so --
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Yeah, the point from 3-1 for him 'til the tiebreak I think I play my
game. I was playing much better than before and I took my chances because in the first set
I didn't get any chance. In the tiebreak was like this, as you said, it was tough because
he was in front of the score really quickly. It was 3-Love. Then it was tough because it
was 4-2 and then 5-2, so it was not easy. And, then I have -- he was -- I think it was 5-2
and I was serving pretty well to his forehand and drop shot, he was just standing on the
net, I don't know how, it was like a comic movie because, you know, like -- he was at the
net so it was strange, 6-2 it was almost over; when he served it was done. 
 
Q. Disappointed to be out so early?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: It is tough. It is -- I have to play many more matches on hard courts
again and that is what I am going to try to do in the next week, Indianapolis and that is
what I am going to Boston also; then I am going to the U.S. Open, so maybe somebody can
think that I am going to play many tournaments, but I need to play on hard courts because
I am used to more used to playing on clay and I need to play singles and doubles, like
this, my game will improve. Maybe next year I will decide where to go, I will choose
better. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT