U.S. OPEN
August 31, 1995
Alex Corretja
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Did you start cramping in the third set already or was it at 5-All, were you having
troubles with your leg already?

ALEX CORRETJA: I felt cramps at the beginning of the fourth set and then -- well, just
when I come back from the rest room I felt something in my legs and then I couldn't serve
so hard because when I serve, when I jump, you know, I felt like the muscles were going
up, so it was really at the beginning of the fourth set, I was like 2-Love or something.

Q. But you were trying to loosen up your legs before that with this tool?

ALEX CORRETJA: Yeah, this is just to make some exercise to relax the legs, you know. At
this moment, I didn't feel anything. 

Q. What do you think about the linesmen at the ends of third set, beginning of fourth
set?

ALEX CORRETJA: The linesman? 

Q. The referees, because of decisions, because there were some discussions, very
against you, you don't feel like that?

ALEX CORRETJA: No, I didn't feel anything. I mean, it is so difficult to make a -- the
balls are coming so fast, they are human, so they can miss also. 

Q. Was there a time when you thought you could beat him?

ALEX CORRETJA: Well, when I won the third set I thought I could beat him, but then when
I start to play the fourth set, I really felt that I was really tight and then fourth set,
I almost tight because I couldn't move and then at the beginning of the fifth set I was
break up, so I thought maybe if I make good struggle maybe could go up. But then when he
broke me again, I felt really, really tight and I couldn't move anymore. 

Q. Was this your toughest match; one of your toughest ever?

ALEX CORRETJA: Probably yes, because I was running all the time, the big rallies, and I
think it was one of the most toughest. Also at the French Open I have one tough one with
Ivanisevic, but it was different because he was serving really well. It was five sets, but
not that tough. 

Q. Anyone ever made a shot like that, the one behind the back that he made against you?

ALEX CORRETJA: No, I don't think so. I don't think anybody is going to make it again.
This shot he can do it, but it is also you have to be lucky also. If you never try, you
never can do it. 

Q. What did he say to you after the match?

ALEX CORRETJA: He said -- I think he told me we fight and well done -- I don't remember
really well because I was cramping and I couldn't hear him. 

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT