RCA CHAMPIONSHIPS
August 15, 1995
Alex Corretja
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Can you talk about at 4-4, playing pretty tight and he gets the edge there and?

ALEX CORRETJA:  Well, I think since 4-All, like you say, I think I got a breakpoint in that game, I missed a second serve return, he get confidence 5-4; then I play really bad that game.  I played two doublefaults, I think one backhand into the net so I lost the game, you know, so quickly.  I was playing well and my confidence get down and, you know, it was hot and everything and he was playing well.  He was attacking the ball really well.  And in the second, I think I had go down.


Q.  After the nice run you had here last year, is it a little bit of disappointment to go out here so early?

ALEX CORRETJA:  Yeah, sure, a little bit. Because last year I played very well here.  I won good matches and this year, I came here with, I mean, I think in good shape and motivated, but you never know. I came here, I tried to play well.  I cannot play as well as I want.  He play well and I have to accept.


Q.  Bits of discussion and I guess Todd said you  guys got a little bit of cloud covering the heat.  Is this maybe excessive to play in this type of weather, would you prefer to play in matches starting later?

ALEX CORRETJA:  It is tough to play because very hot and really difficult to play, but I think it is -- for everybody, it is the same, so if it is hot for me, it is hot for Woodbridge.  He can resist the hot.  I can resist, but I think it would be better if we could start play at 4 or 5 o'clock, but I think for the tournament, it is really difficult and you have to understand for everybody who wants to see tennis, it is difficult to start the matches at five o'clock in the afternoon.  If they can do that, I think it would be much better for the players because they will play much in good conditions, but also, I have to understand that for the tournament, it is really difficult to do that. But it is for all the players.  It is not just for me, so it is the same conditions for everybody, so you cannot say, oh, it was too hot, that is why I lost, I mean, it was hot for Woodbridge and today I think it is not as hot as yesterday or, I think -- so the hot is not the excuse for me.  I think he played better.  I didn't play really well.  I think I can play much better, but it is no excuses.  We have to accept the loss.  Just keep working.  It is the only way in this  sport.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT