BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2006
Andrew McLardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








STEVEN FRANKLIN:  Welcome, ladies and gentlemen.  Andrew McLardy is here.  Andrew, 67, a great start and the current lead, you must be feeling quite good right now.

ANDREW McLARDY:  It's great not to make a bogey, it's been a while, but I've been playing well for the last couple weeks and missing cuts by one or two.  It comes down to a couple putts.  Last week I had the bad side of the draw when we got taken off the course and I lost all my shots when those gales came up.

Today I had one lucky putt on 16 that hit the back of the hole and jumped up and went in.  Other than that, it was fairway, green and hitting putts with good speed.
STEVEN FRANKLIN:  Obviously struggling with a cold as well, so how are you feeling?

ANDREW McLARDY:  I was hot and cold out there - sweating and blowing my nose the whole day.  However, it's maybe okay because you learn to breathe a bit better. You've got to breathe a bit deeper when you're struggling.
STEVEN FRANKLIN:  If we can just do your card, first birdie at 4.

ANDREW McLARDY:  I hit driver, 4 iron on the front edge and I was 12 feet, landed a few inches short of the hole.

Hit a 5 iron to about ten feet left of the hole and hit a great putt.

7, hit 3 wood and then an 8 iron to the top level, then had about 15 feet straight back, it was downhill.

11, I hit a good drive again in the fairway.  It was a strange shot because the green is really soft and slopes from back to front.  You know it's going to spin, and had a really hard line that pitched 140, 145 meters past the hole and rolled in from 15 feet at the top of the hill.

16, hit a bad tee shot in the right rough and hacked an 8 iron out to about 40 feet.  Hit a putt that had way too much speed on it and did one of those, hit the back of the hole and jump up in the air.  So that could have been a two shot swing if you roll it eight feet by, so good luck, really.
Q.  You had a chance at 17?

ANDREW McLARDY:  Yeah, about ten feet and broke a bit more to the right.
Q.  Did you catch the cold in Ireland?

ANDREW McLARDY:  I caught it from my wife.  I think it started off with her with hayfever, and then infection and then I got it.  It's not too bad.
Q.  Do you take something for it?  Are you taking any medication?

ANDREW McLARDY:  Just drinking lots of water and Vitamin C, no beers.
Q.  You said while you have been playing quite well you haven't been scoring as well as you should, with the course being lengthened and the rain, what were your thoughts when you caught sight of it for the first time?

ANDREW McLARDY:  The practice round on Tuesday it was pretty cold and windy.  I was playing out there and they said they are going to move some tees forward, like the third hole because it was driver, 3 wood, par 4, which is crazy.  So we knew they were going to move tees forward.  So it didn't play as long as you think.  A lot of tees got moved up.
Q.  Why the driver, 3 wood, par 4, a crazy hole?

ANDREW McLARDY:  Maybe if the green was a bit bigger, but the green is about I'd say 30 feet, 40 feet wide with three tiers in it and severely sloped.  Maybe when it was originally designed, you'd hit 5  or 6 irons.
Q.  When was your last round without a bogey; do you remember?

ANDREW McLARDY:  Probably a social round at home.  In a tournament, I think in Italy I only made one bogey the last round but I don't recall.
Q.  Can you talk about your Scottish heritage?

ANDREW McLARDY:  My father was born in Hellensburgh and my parents grew up their whole lives in Scotland and then moved to South Africa    no, they actually moved to Zimbabwe first in '68 maybe.  And then went to South Africa in 1980. Maybe they were avoiding the weather or something, I don't know!
Q.  What passport do you travel with, a South African?

ANDREW McLARDY:  Yeah, depends where it's convenient.  Traveling around Europe, you're going to use your British.
Q.  You have a British passport?

ANDREW McLARDY:  Yes.
Q.  And a South Africa passport?

ANDREW McLARDY:  Yes.
Q.  Could you in theory qualify for the Ryder Cup then?

ANDREW McLARDY:  I suppose.  I'd rather    I think I'd rather play well and maybe represent South Africa in a World Cup or something because that's where, since I was five years old, where I picked up the sport and played golf every day in South Africa.  It would be nice to give something back.
Q.  You would see yourself playing in the Presidents Cup if you ever played well enough to do, rather than the Ryder Cup?

ANDREW McLARDY:  Yes, definitely.
Q.  You were five or six when your family moved to South Africa?

ANDREW McLARDY:  Five.
Q.  Do you still have relations in Scotland?

ANDREW McLARDY:  On aunt and uncle in Helensburgh on my mom's side and an aunt and uncle in Dollar on my mom's side. Also cousins in Glasgow, Edinburgh.  And my dad, his parents came to South Africa.  I'm not sure if there's any of my dad's left.
STEVEN FRANKLIN:  Thanks Andrew for coming in.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT