FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 27, 2013
Mark Russell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MARK RUSSELL:   They're our television partner, and if that's what they want to do, that's what we're going to.   Normally it would be Golf Channel, but the network decided they wanted to do that and that's what we set the times for.  
   
 Q.   Is that fair to the guys who couldn't otherwise get to Phoenix for the qualifier on the short season they have?   
    MARK RUSSELL:   I'm not really concerned about‑‑ I mean, was it fair that we lost yesterday to fog?   I mean, you know, we're at the mercy of the weather.   
    But I think it's great for the tournament.   I think it's great for the San Diego area.   I think it's great for Farmers.   It's going to be on network television.  
   
 Q.   Have you ever started this late on a restart Monday?   
    MARK RUSSELL:   I can't remember doing that.   I mean, I can't remember‑‑ I can't recall this happening recently.  
   
 Q.   Would CBS show this if it's not Tiger?   
    MARK RUSSELL:   I have no idea.   You have to talk to them.  
   
 Q.   Who's talking to you?   
    MARK RUSSELL:   I'm not a network executive in New York, you know?   I just know that they're our television partners.   And they wanted to show it, and so we accommodated them.  
   
 Q.   When did they tell you or give you that word?   
    MARK RUSSELL:   About 10:30, 11:00 this morning.  
   
 Q.   So it was too late to think about doing‑‑  
    MARK RUSSELL:   Doing other things.  
   
 Q.   Had you known this ahead of time, could you have just played 18 today, made a 54‑hole cut and sent them off?   
    MARK RUSSELL:   No, we're required to play 72 holes.   
   
 Q.   That's what I mean.   
    MARK RUSSELL:   But if we had known this yesterday‑‑ but you can't look at hindsight.   We were looking at coming into fog again this morning, which we were extremely fortunate that it didn't.   
    So I can't really say in hindsight what we'd do.   We just lost today, and we're trying to play all the golf we possibly could.   
    But I thought that we'd probably come in and finish tomorrow morning on the Golf Channel.   But if CBS wants to do that, we're more than happy to accommodate them.   
   
 Q.   You ever watch afternoon TV on CBS?   
    MARK RUSSELL:   No, I can't really say I do.   I usually play golf in the afternoon (laughing).  
   
 Q.   Do you have any weather concerns for tomorrow?   
    MARK RUSSELL:   The weather is supposed to be good tomorrow.   It's supposed to be a little cooler and breezier, but the weather is supposed to be good.   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT