BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 26, 2019
Mark Russell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. President of Rules and Competition for the PGA TOUR, Mark Russell.  If you didn't believe us that it's raining.
MARK RUSSELL: I came a very short distance to come in here.
Q. So give us the update.  What's the weather?
MARK RUSSELL: Well, we got an inch of rain.  It has not rained a drop here since April.  The golf course is -- we've got to let it stop raining and stop being a lightning threat before we can go out there and take a look at it, but hopefully we can play golf until probably 8:30 tonight.  It would be fantastic if we could get an hour and a half, two hours of golf in.
We're just looking at it.  Our meteorologist is showing us where, once a storm goes by, another develops behind.  It's really strange.  We've got a great forecast for the weekend, so if we could just get a little golf in today, I think we can get back on schedule tomorrow.
Q. Pretty optimistic.  We're sitting on the side of a mountain, though, right?  Is the drainage pretty good on this golf course?
MARK RUSSELL: It's difficult to say because, when Doug Heinrichs, fantastic superintendent, I asked him about the rain, he said, I can't remember getting an inch of rain here.  But, yeah, it should drain pretty good.
We might have to work on some bunkers or whatever, but if it will just stop raining and we can get out there and take a look at it, hopefully, we can get back out and play some golf this afternoon.
Q. I know it was surprising how it popped up, especially yesterday into today.  Best case, let's say they were able to get out there for a couple of hours.  How would that slide the end of round 2 into Saturday?
MARK RUSSELL: Oh, Mr. Speculation.  We've got two groups of golf to tee off.  If we could play some golf this afternoon for an hour, hour and a half or so, then we could come back in the morning and probably have four or five hours of golf to play.  We could do that.
Then we could turn it around right quick with our shot link staff and put them back out two tees and possibly get finished tomorrow then play all of them on Sunday.  Forecast is good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT