THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 14, 2011
Mark Russell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE: Mark, we know you're busy. You've got a lot going on, but obviously we've had some weather issues today. Just a few comments about the condition of the course and what we're looking at for tomorrow. 
 MARK RUSSELL: Well, the golf course, unbelievable how it drained. It's the first time it's rained here since we sand capped the fairways, redid the greens and did the renovation, and it was amazing how the golf course held up. 
 Once it stopped raining, the water was basically gone. 

 Q. How far do you need to get tonight with the last couple groups off to get this thing done tomorrow? 
 MARK RUSSELL: I don't think we'll have a problem getting it done tomorrow. Last tee time is going to be 7:00 and sunset is at 8:12. I figure we can probably play golf for an hour and 15 minutes, probably get to 6 tee probably. And we're going to bring them back and start at 7:45 in the morning. 
 I figure that maybe three hours max, probably less than that. We're going to start back at 11:30, 1:42 off two tees, threesomes.

 Q. You're going to re-pair?
 MARK RUSSELL: Yes.

 Q. You had the hole location marked on 16 today?
 MARK RUSSELL: It had some damage. I don't know what happened to it, but it was damaged, and we moved it about two feet.

 Q. How bad was the damage or what was the damage?
 MARK RUSSELL: You know, I'm really not sure. Robby just told me this hole is damaged at 16, I'm going to have to move it. 
 You know, that's pretty unusual but not unheard of. I mean, if the hole gets damaged -- let's say somebody hit a shot in there and took the side of the lip out and you couldn't repair it, you'd have to move the hole. That's happened before. I mean, we didn't change where it was but like this (indicating two feet), so the players are still playing the same thing.

 Q. Did you have to do that to any other holes?
 MARK RUSSELL: Not that I know of, just the one.

 Q. Did you tell the players and caddies?
 MARK RUSSELL: No, we didn't change -- we didn't change the depth of it or the distance, just cut them a new hole. I would think it would be more exciting playing a new hole than one that's damaged.

 Q. Yeah, but did they get told it moved a couple of feet?
 MARK RUSSELL: No, no, we didn't tell them. No need to. 

 Q. If the hole was bigger --
 MARK RUSSELL: Could have been caved in a little bit, could have been smaller. No, we didn't tell them, just moved it.

 Q. Have you talked to the weather guys about what the forecast looks like for some?
 MARK RUSSELL: Forecast is could be some lingering showers around, scattered showers early in the morning, but tomorrow is going to be a beautiful day.

 Q. Thunderstorms?
 MARK RUSSELL: Possibly. It's going to be the back of this front moving through but he says we're going to have some beautiful weather tomorrow, low to mid 80s and less humidity, so it should be a great final day.

 Q. Do you have the cattle prod for making sure people move along?
 MARK RUSSELL: Oh, absolutely, we always have that. 

 Q. How much do you think the work done to the course with the sand capping and everything helped you get guys back out there faster?
 MARK RUSSELL: Oh, I can't -- the years kind of run together for me, but the year it rained, so we had to finish on Monday, that fourth fairway was a tremendous problem, the 7th problem was a tremendous problem. I'm trying to think of one on the back side. 12 was a problem. 
 But, I mean, I rode down 4 fairway after it stopped raining, it was like it did not even rain. I mean, the sand capping they did was fantastic. Tom Black and his staff have done a great job and our agronomy team, Cal Roth. Cal told me, hey, I don't care how much it rains. If it stops, all that water will be gone quick, and it was. 

 Q. Did they fire up the SubAir on the greens or did they need to?
 MARK RUSSELL: Oh, absolutely, fired up the SubAir as soon as it started raining.

 Q. Do you let that run while play --
 MARK RUSSELL: No, we cut it off. It pulled as much moisture out as it was going to pull. Once it's stopped raining and you run it for 15, 20 minutes, it's done all it can do.

 Q. Was there any part of any green that had any standing water whatsoever?
 MARK RUSSELL: No, none at all.

 Q. That's pretty amazing. 
 MARK RUSSELL: No, I didn't see any standing water in any fairway. I'll tell you what you can do to look at what it was. Go down there and look at the range tee. Back part of the range where the players are hitting is sand capped. The next tee down is not. There's puddles all over it. But the sand capped tee is like it didn't even rain.

 Q. Was the tree down on 16 the only tree?
 MARK RUSSELL: We had quite a bit of debris, but Tom Black and Clay Breazeale, their staff, they cleaned it up. They assigned several people to each hole, and they took blowers out there and got it cleaned up quick. 

 Q. Did you get about an inch?
 MARK RUSSELL: Three quarters of an inch. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT