SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 13, 2011
Mark Russell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHN BUSH: Thanks for coming by. Just get some comments on the day's proceedings. 
 MARK RUSSELL: Well, the golf course is under water. We've got some more rain coming, and we just didn't think that we could get it in tournament condition today, so we're going to give Dave, the golf course superintendent, an opportunity to work on it today all afternoon. Hopefully it'll dry up a little bit overnight and we'll be able to play tomorrow, and we're going to schedule 36 holes for Sunday, and we'll cut to the nearest number to 60 and hopefully we can get that in at 5:30, 6:00 Sunday night. 
 It's unfortunate that the weather has not cooperated with us. It's the first time I can ever remember having this problem in Hawai'i, here at Waialae in my 28, 29 years coming here. But it's what we're faced with, and we're going to do the best we can to try to finish playing golf for television 5:30 or 6:00 on Sunday.
 JOHN BUSH: Cut on Saturday? 
 MARK RUSSELL: Cut on Saturday to the nearest number to 60 so that we'll be able to play and get 36 holes in with the time we have to play golf on Sunday. 

 Q. What are you hearing from Stewart about the forecast?
 MARK RUSSELL: They're expecting some rain today, which had a lot to do with our decision, and there's a chance of showers tomorrow but not nearly as bad as the last day or so, so hopefully we can get some drying weather and we'll get some work done on the golf course. All the bunkers were washed out and several of the fairways were flooded, and we just couldn't play golf under the rules today. 

 Q. Could you clarify the number of 60, the cut?
 MARK RUSSELL: Could I clarify? It is what it is, the nearest number to 60. After they play 36 holes, the players nearest number to 60, that's who will play the final 36 holes. We usually cut to 70 and ties, but we just don't have that room for that many players, so in other words, to play 36 holes on Sunday, we'll cut to the nearest number to 60.

 Q. So could be 58 or --
 MARK RUSSELL: Yeah, that's right.

 Q. How much rain has the golf course gotten so far? 
 MARK RUSSELL: Three and a half, four inches.

 Q. What are you expecting? 
 MARK RUSSELL: What are we expecting? 

 Q. Yeah, today. 
 MARK RUSSELL: Well, it's not -- we could get some heavy showers today, but I think the worst of it has passed. We could still get some heavy showers today. We're expecting some rain but hopefully nothing like we've had in the past.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT