DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 2, 2010
Mark Russell
Stewart Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What do we know 24 hours later, Stewart? 
 STEWART WILLIAMS: Well, unfortunately for us, Hurricane Earl is still heading towards New England, and it was a Category 4 hurricane earlier today with winds of 140 miles per hour, but as far as a few hours ago it did weaken down to a Category 3 with 125-mile-per-hour wind. It'll probably keep that intensity tonight. But then as it passes the Outer Banks of North Carolina, continues to move to the north and eventually northeast tomorrow, it'll slowly weaken as it heads towards us. By the time it gets off of the Cape, Nantucket area tomorrow evening, it'll probably be a Category 2 storm, which that's 90- to 110-mile-an-hour winds. So somewhere around 100 miles per hour will be the strength at that time.
 In a nutshell for us, it still looks okay here tomorrow morning. I think once we get to the early afternoon time frame, we'll definitely start getting some of the outer bands of Earl, and so we'll get some showers and some brief, gusty winds at that point. And then once I think we get to the late afternoon, especially the evening hours, heavier rain will be likely and the winds will definitely increase, late afternoon 20 to 30 with some higher gusts, and I think in the evening it will be 30 to 40 with gusts probably 45 to 50. 
 Any different track with Earl slightly to the left obviously will give us a little bit more increase in winds. If it tends to go a little more east, which we hope that happens, the winds will obviously be a little weaker here and obviously better news for us. Combining those type winds with the maybe two to four inches of rain that we can expect across the area, obviously trees falling during the evening hours and power lines, obviously a big problem here on the golf course. Obviously there's a lot of tents and stuff, as well. 
 I had conversations with the tent people, and they're not so much worried about the big tent structures but obviously the small ones. I think they're going to strip those down to metal frames. Hopefully the tournament will pick up all the loose items, especially in the morning, trash cans, chairs, that kind of thing, and minimize our projectiles for tomorrow night. 
 After that, Earl is quickly going to get out of here, probably by 3:00 or 4:00 in the morning. Early Saturday morning it'll be northeast of here. Skies will quickly clear, so I think when we get here Saturday morning, it will be mostly sunny. Winds will still be breezy, gusting probably out of the west, northwest, 15 to 25, and I think as we get into the later morning and into the afternoon it will calm down quite a bit.
 The rest of the weekend, highs in the upper 70s on Saturday. Sunday and Monday lows in the 50s, highs in the mid 70s, should make for some nice weather for us to play golf. 
 Once we get through tomorrow it's definitely going to be a great weekend for us. 

 Q. What about the guys with later tee times that are out on the course? When is there a threshold to say we've got to call it?
 MARK RUSSELL: We're going to come in in the morning, we're going to start playing golf, we're going to play all we can, and hopefully Earl will slow down and we'll get finished. But if we can't, we've just got to play it by ear, see what happens, certainly get the players off, get the spectators to take shelter, and we'll see what happens. But hopefully come in in the morning, start playing, maybe it'll hold off until later in the afternoon. We can play in a little wind, but we can't handle lightning. We can play in a little rain, but the lightning is what's going to put us out of business if that's the case.

 Q. Is that part of the forecast, lightning? 
 MARK RUSSELL: Well, in those outer bands there could easily be some thunderstorms. 

 Q. What's the bigger concern, the rain or the wind? 
 MARK RUSSELL: Well, as long as we can play golf by the rules, we're going to play, but if the wind blows so hard it blows the ball around on the greens, we can't play, or if it rains so hard that the hole goes under water we can't play. But we might get lucky, who knows. 

 Q. You mentioned stripping some of the structures here. Would that take place tonight? 
 MARK RUSSELL: I have no idea what their time frame is going to be. I just know there's more concern with some of their smaller tents, that kind of thing. So I think the tournament will take every precaution necessary. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT