ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 17, 2007
Mark Russell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MARK RUSSELL:  Tom Johnson was chipping, his ball was on the right-hand side of the second green and he was chipping, and he chipped the ball. 
 Tom Johnson did not ask him to attend the flagstick so it was unauthorized and in stroke play he got a two-stroke penalty for that. 

 Q.  Inaudible? 
 MARK RUSSELL:  Not really.  If a flagstick is not attended, or moved or held up, the player makes a stroke, it must not be attended or moved or held up during the stroke or while the ball is in motion if doing so it might influence movement of the ball.  It could have hit the flagstick and been two strokes on Tom Johnson. 
 But when Boo ran up there and pulled the flagstick out, he wasn't authorized to do that. 
 Now, if he would have -- if Tom would ask asked him to and he went up there and did it, no problem. 

 Q.  Could he have asked him to do that while the ball is rolling? 
 MARK RUSSELL:  No, that's why they say -- during a stroke, or while the ball is rolling, you can't do that. 

 Q.  And the penalty is because he did it, nobody was -- not because who he is, he's a playing partner -- 
 MARK RUSSELL:  Fellow competitor. 

 Q.  If he had been tending the pin when he chipped, then he could have pulled it? 
 MARK RUSSELL:  Oh, yeah, absolutely. 

 Q.  Because nobody was tending the pin, he ran over -- 
 MARK RUSSELL:  That's right. 
 It was reported to us by a marshal asking a question to one of our officials and brought it to our attention. 
 I'll tell you this, I've never heard of that in my 27 years in golf.  I've never heard of that happening.  I mean, with caddies -- and I'll say this, too.  Boo said he was just trying to help out and knew if the ball hit the flagstick it was a penalty. 
 He said, "I didn't know that was a penalty, but you learn something new everything day."  He handled it very well.  I can't tell you how impressed I was the way he handled it. 

 Q.  The ball was on the putting green -- 
 MARK RUSSELL:  There's irrelevant.  You can tend a flagstick anywhere on the golf course.  He was trying to help him out. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT