BOOZ ALLEN CLASSIC
June 26, 2006
Mark Russell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MARK RUSSELL:  Well, as you can see, it rained all day.  Our meteorologist tells us it's going to rain for a couple of hours.  So we can't get back out there.  We've got a group on 17, one player in the bunker and other players on the 17 green.  And we've got another group playing into 18.  We have about 20 minutes of his golf left and we just couldn't get it done today.

Dennis Ingram and his staff have done a fantastic job of getting this golf course ready to go.  We've been lucky to play the golf we have.  We are going to come back at 7:30 in the morning and try to complete the golf tournament.

TODD BUDNICK:  Questions?
Q.  And if you can't, what is the option?
MARK RUSSELL:   Well, if we can't, we feel like    we're going to play 20 minutes of golf sometime.  I mean, the round must stand.  I mean, half the field is finished.  We have got to complete this round.  We'll do everything we can.  I cannot remember playing on Tuesday
Q.  1980.
MARK RUSSELL:  Where in 1980?  Tucson, okay.

This round must stand.  We completed    we have got half the field finishing the final round.  It must stand.  We're going to come out in the morning.  We have a pretty good forecast in the morning.  There's a chance of showers.  He said it will probably be like today.  The later in the day it gets, with this whether system we have over us, we have more of a chance with the daytime heat of having thunder storms.  We'll see what happens.
Q.  First of all, do you have an official total for rainfall of the year?  And secondly, have you in all your years seen anything like this?
MARK RUSSELL:  I heard earlier six inches.

TODD BUDNICK:  1.45 yesterday, 4.8 overnight, and they were up to 3 this afternoon.  We have to double check and see where they are now, but nine and a half overall.
MARK RUSSELL:  From what everyone says, we're talking record rainfall in the D.C. area.  Record rainfall, how long have they been keeping records?  The 1800's?  No, I have never seen anything like this.
Q.  How long have you been doing this?
MARK RUSSELL:  26 years.

TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Mark.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT