WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2005
Mark Russell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Tell us about the ruling on Tiger.
MARK RUSSELL:  On the 10th hole, Tiger moved a temporary immovable structure.  There was a fence down there that was temporary, but it was immovable.  We had been giving relief out of it all week, and he went to push on it to see if he could move it and the crowd evidently damaged it.  It's a two-stroke penalty.  You can't do that.

Let me read you that definition.  "An obstruction is a movable obstruction if it may be moved without unreasonable effort, without undue delay or without causing damage, otherwise it's an immovable obstruction."  They ripped the screws out of it, and it was attached there.

It's an unfortunate situation, but that's the rule.
Q.  What was his reaction when you told him?
MARK RUSSELL:  He wasn't very happy.  He's under the heat.  Tiger is a competitor, and I totally understood he wouldn't be happy.  We have to play by the rules.  When that happened at 10, Jon Brendle was near the situation, and we got together as a committee and looked at it all individually, and we all agreed that we'd give relief on that fence down there all week that was around the restrooms, and there was just nothing we could do under the rules.  It's not a pleasant situation, but we have to play golf under the rules.
Q.  Is it something you think a player -- obviously a player has to know the rules.  Tiger is usually pretty up on the rules, too, isn't he?
MARK RUSSELL:  Absolutely.  Tiger thought it was movable was his thought process; it's just a fence.  But the fence was spiked in the ground and the fence was screwed together and they broke off a section in order for him to play.  Now, we'd have given him relief off it if he would have asked, but he can't -- he can't move it, and in the process of moving it, it damaged it, and it resulted in a two-stroke penalty.
Q.  How did Tiger try to make his point?
MARK RUSSELL:  "I can't believe it, it was a fence."  I read him what I just read you, so on.  It's a sad situation, but we've got to play golf by the rules, and he understands that.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT