TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2018
Mark Russell
John Mutch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MARK RUSSELL: The ball's deemed to be at rest.  If it falls in after the 10 seconds, you've deemed to have holed out with your previous shot and add one.  So he was putting for birdie, he made a 4 there.  I made some copies of this.  It's very self-explanatory if you want to read it and you'll understand it.   
 Q.  Mark, Zach felt the ball was still moving, and maybe the 10-second clock would start over again.  
MARK RUSSELL: No, no.  Once you reach the hole, you've got 10 seconds.  After that, the ball is deemed to be at rest.   
 Q.  When it's overhanging the hole?  
MARK RUSSELL: Yes.   
 Q.  Did somebody time it?  How long was it?  
MARK RUSSELL: It was about 16 to 18 seconds, something like that.  Well over 10 seconds.   
 Q.  So he didn't need to necessarily hit the ball.  It was just the ball went in and they add a stroke?  
MARK RUSSELL: Yeah, if that would have happened with 8 seconds once he had reached the hole, he would have made a 3.  But that's a specific rule dealing with ball overhanging hole.   
 Q.  What was Zach's reaction?  
MARK RUSSELL: He was okay.  Zach understands we play by the rules and he's totally fine with it.   
 Q.  Was he replaying it or demonstrating what happened?  
JOHN MUTCH: Well, there was a lot of confusion.  He was in close proximity to the ball, so he seemed to want to use Rule 3-3, and that's not a problem.  It's actually an insurance policy.  If he had caused it to move for any reason, he would have had to move it back, but he didn't.   
 Q.  Obviously he didn't grab the ball?  
MARK RUSSELL: All of that was moot after the 10 seconds.   
JOHN MUTCH: It didn't hurt anything, but it was -- we just took care of that part of it.   
 Q.  What is the determination on a player arriving to the ball?  
MARK RUSSELL: Arriving to the hole?   
 Q.  Right; correct.  
MARK RUSSELL: Well, I mean a reasonable amount of time.  I mean, you couldn't go back over to the edge of the green to fix three or four-ball marks and walk up there.  We wouldn't consider that.   
 Q.  Arriving at the ball, is that when the ten seconds starts?  
MARK RUSSELL: Arriving at the hole.  Once he putts the ball, he's got a reasonable amount of time to reach the hole.  Then once he reaches the hole, he's got 10 seconds.  After 10 seconds, the ball is deemed to be at rest.   
 Q.  Right, so what -- that's what I'm getting at.  Sorry.  What is the term in reaching the hole?  Is it three feet?  
MARK RUSSELL: Once you reach the hole and you're in a position where you can tap it in.   
 Q.  That's all?  
MARK RUSSELL: Yeah.   
 Q.  Can you also talk about 16, how he moved back to the tee at 16, how he was able to go ahead and do that?  
MARK RUSSELL: Usually opposite margin option on that.  One of our other referees was down there.  That's one of the five options under a lateral water hazard rule.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT