THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 14, 2016
Mark Russell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (No Microphone.)
MARK RUSSELL: Well, we have done the same thing all week.  We have been double cutting these greens and double rolling them and trying to get them firmed up.
And what happened today was just kind of a perfect storm with the weather.  We weren't expecting a 20 mile an hour wind all day, and the humidity 30 percent, not a cloud in the sky.  And they just, you know, sped up on us.
Q. Is there anything you can do to try and do anything tomorrow to change it or just keep --
MARK RUSSELL: We're not going to do anything to them tonight.  We'll look at them in the morning, see what we can do.  But, you know, we weren't trying to do anything.  We have done the same thing we have done all week.
We just got caught with a situation where we had very low humidity, 20 mile an hour wind -- I think the wind was forecasted 8 to 12 -- we had 20.  And there wasn't a cloud in the sky and the greens just sped up.
Q. Would you say you lost them?
MARK RUSSELL: No, I don't think we lost anything.  Some good scores out there today.
Q. When you said, do the same thing, double roll them and one roll between two and three rounds?
MARK RUSSELL: Yeah, that's right.
Q. And cut them overnight?  Did you turn on the SubAir?
MARK RUSSELL: Well, yeah, I mean we -- no, SubAir hasn't been turned on all week.  SubAir is when it rains hard and you want to get the moisture out of it.
But, you know, we didn't deviate from our program.  We just got in a situation where, no humidity, and wind, and not a cloud in the sky.
You know, we have been rolling them, double cutting and double rolling them, trying to get them there, you know?  And they were good.
And a lot of times in the morning they were, right behind the roll, they will kick up to over 14, but then we'll lose a foot and a half in the day.  Just the nature of these greens.  That's the reason they're going to be history next week.  But we didn't do anything different, we just got a different wind, a different weather situation and they sped up.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT