WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
May 1, 2015
Mark Russell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Mark, obviously you know why you're here.   Do you want to just kind of run us through what you talked about coming over here?
MARK RUSSELL:   Well, given all the facts, first of all these guys are competitors.   And, you know, Miguel, talking to him, it's kinds of a weird situation out there left of 18 where you have a TIO, and a cart path right behind them.   And I had a ruling over there earlier where a guy played off a cart path.   But Miguel, when he seen him drop the ball, the ball rolled back in the condition, and Miguel thought it had to roll two club lengths for him to drop it.   That's why he came up there and questioned that.   And then it just kind of escalated from there.
But, you know, I mean these guys are all type‑A personalities, and they're competitors, and there's a lot on the line.   They've got a lot of pride.   They had a little confrontation out there.   It's not the first time it happened.   It won't be the last. 

Q.   Should the caddie get involved?
MARK RUSSELL:   Well, I mean‑‑ the caddie is part of the side.   He had something to say.   And once again, we don't have an answer for that.   If the caddie thinks he needs to get involved, get involved. 

Q.   You weren't the official out there, right?
MARK RUSSELL:   No, it was Russell Swanson.   And Russell Swanson did a great job out there.   And Russell Swanson isn't going to step in the middle of these players, that's between them.   And I don't think he should have done anything in that situation.   That's between those players.   It was a little heated, a little unusual, but that's the not the first time that's happened and won't be the last.

Q.   It was also escalated coming off 18 where Pepsi got right in Miguel's face with the F‑word.   He there were a lot of fans watching that. 
MARK RUSSELL:   We don't need that.   We don't need that.   But, you know, it was a situation down there where Miguel has every right‑‑ it's his opponent, his opponent is dropping the ball, and he thought that the ball needed to roll two club lengths in order for him to pick it up, in this case it wasn't.   It rolled back in the condition he was taking the drop from.
So it just got a little heated.   They left the locker room.   And in the locker room ‑‑ they had words in the locker room.   I talk to Keegan afterwards, and you talked to Miguel afterwards, and they all seemed pretty calm to me.

Q.   But according to other sources it's not over. 
MARK RUSSELL:   Well, what are they going to do?   Have a dual or something? 

Q.   Just saying, you're making it sound like it's okay.   But it doesn't sound like it. 
MARK RUSSELL:   As far as I'm concerned it is.   I can't speak for those gentlemen.   It's a gentleman's game.

Q.   Did you talk to Pepsi?
MARK RUSSELL:   Yeah, Pepsi came by and I talked to him.   He apologized for what happened in there.

Q.   Sounds like there was also ‑‑ on 13 there was a ruling on 13 that took a bit of time and sounded like there was maybe‑‑ sounded like Pepsi and Keegan weren't thrilled with Miguel‑‑
MARK RUSSELL:   They're playing golf at a very high level.   And it's match play.   I mean things happen.

Q.   In this particular case they were both 0 & 2.   I understand what you're saying. 
MARK RUSSELL:   They had a lot on the line.   You think one of those guys wants to lose to the other one, absolutely not. 

Q.   I don't think that.   But are you suggesting that‑‑
MARK RUSSELL:   We're not suggesting anything.

Q.   Okay.   Well, I'm sorry, I think you did suggest the fact that they have a lot of pride on the line‑‑
MARK RUSSELL:   I didn't suggest that.   I said that's a fact.

Q.   Okay.   Since they have a lot of pride on the line does that make it okay for what they did out there today?
MARK RUSSELL:   No, it doesn't make it okay.   It's a gentleman's game.   But from time to time things get heated in this game.   You have ultra competitors, type‑A personalities.   Everything can't be la‑la all the time.   But, you know, I mean it's unfortunate that happened, but that's the way it is.   And it's over with, as far as I'm concerned. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT