NBA DRAFT
June 24, 2010
John Wall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  No. 1 Selection, Washington Wizards  
  
 JOHN WALL: Thank you all for coming here and I thank God for having this opportunity for getting picked No. 1.  
  
  Q. The Washington Wizards organization had a tough year, definitely so. How are you looking forward to really creating a new chapter in that organization and making an impact?   
 JOHN WALL: Thank you for saying congratulations but first of all, like Kentucky, we went in with a new group of guys and I know this is a different level, but I just have to go in and show those guys I'm willing to work and listen as much as I can and be a leader. That's the key is being a leader and trying to help them win games.  
  
  Q. What lessons can you learn from your Kentucky experience that will help you with the wizards?   
 JOHN WALL: First of all, the fans, it's crazy, but as a maturity level, Coach taught me a lot and I became a better leader vocally. I was always a leader by example being the first in the gym and last in the gym and working hard, but I'm a leader that won't mind speaking up to the older guys.   
  
  Q. When you Tweeted your dream was about to come true, that you had since you were a kid, what was it like for you when you went on the stage?   
 JOHN WALL: I was emotional, almost brought tears to my eyes. A couple years I had to sit back in the room watching LeBron and Derrick Rose and Tyreke and those guys and going up and shaking hands with David Stern means a lot.  
  
  Q. Do you feel any added pressure being the consensus No. 1 pick?  
 JOHN WALL: I feel like I had pressure since I became No. 1 in high school and was one of the top players. I always got there hungry wanting to fight hard and compete in every game so when I step on the court I'm going to take on any challenge there.  
  
  Q. I notice you never smiled all the way up and shook the Commissioner's hand and he said something and you broke into a big grin. Why didn't you smile to start with and what did he say?  
 JOHN WALL: It was an emotional experience. I was happy to be in the situation and I said -- he said, "You were waiting for this, weren't you." It was a great time to sit there and shake his hands in front of all those people out there and the rest of the prospects means a lot.  
  
  Q. They are not sure what they are going to do with Gilbert Arenas, but how do you feel you can play with each other?   
 JOHN WALL: I feel like he needs the ball in his hands a lot but he did a great job with the point guard and we both did a great job this year and both have a chance to reach our dreams.   
  
  Q. Congratulations, I just want to ask your opinion about playing for an owner who thrives on building his team via draft picks and what that's going to be like for you.   
 JOHN WALL: That means a lot. It means he's going out there and trying to start up brand new and build the team from all over again and let's hope it's with me and some other guys picked this year, just hope we change the organization around on and off the court.   
  
  Q. Just talk about this what will be the greatest challenge, will it be on the court or rejuvenating the fan base?  
 JOHN WALL: I thought it was going to be the fan base but I feel like if you support them in their city, they are going to be there. The main thing is being on the court and learning so much, it's a different game and different speed and I've been grinding hard this whole summer waiting and preparing for it, we have to wait and see.  
  
  Q. Do you think you'll get invited to the White House for a couple pick-up games?  
 JOHN WALL: I asked him to play one-on-one H.O.R.S.E. and I will try to ask him again.  
  
  Q. So you have spoken?   
 JOHN WALL: We haven't spoken but he talked to our whole Kentucky team.  
  
  Q. You can't wear 11, it's been retired. What number are you going to have?   
 JOHN WALL: I don't know yet. I'm sitting down with my team and my family and going to try to decide.   
  
  Q. Your defense is very underrated. Talk about how you're looking to even increase that and be a possible perennial all-defensive team.   
 JOHN WALL: Basically, you know, just working hard, working on my footwork and giving 100% of the defense and not just giving 100% on offense. That's the key with my jumpshot, too, being more consistent and confident, too, and that's one thing I feel like I need to work on was my jumpshot and defense and that's why I'm going to try to show people I can play and knock down the shot.  
  
  Q. You hugged your mother, a very motional moment. Talk about the impact she's had and especially on in a day like this.   
 JOHN WALL: I can't even -- words can't even explain right now. Growing up I lived in a tough neighborhood, getting in trouble in school, especially when my dad passed. So my mom taking me to school and picked up in the afternoon, that was it. As a kid, 10, 11 years old, you want to see your family spend time and didn't really have it. She was the first lady, she says, if you don't change your attitude, you'll never be doing so for her, to be in some situation, means a lot to me and I love her to death.  
  
  Q. You were cut from your high school team; was this moment in doubt for you?   
 JOHN WALL: Never in doubt. Luckily I watched the tape where Michael Jordan got cut. If he can get cut, it's not too bad for me to get cut.  
  
  Q. How do you think you will fit into the offensive system, pick-and-roll oriented?   
 JOHN WALL: I think I can play the pick-and-roll well, we did a great job in Kentucky and most of the NBA is off pick-and-roll or you get a fast break or unless you have an all-star type player, you get on one-on-one situations, so I think I'll do good.   
  
  Q. How productive do you think you can be right away in that first season?   
 JOHN WALL: I think I can be very productive. Just got to have that confidence in working on your game. If you think you can do the right things at the next level, just going and having the confidence to play. If you have a coach like Coach Saunders will give you the opportunity to play and make a couple of mistakes and they can teach you at the same time and help you out.  
  
  Q. How did the difficult times prepare you for facing adversity on the court?   
 JOHN WALL: It helps me a lot. What people said about me don't really get to me as much. I'm used to hearing it because I was bad, so doesn't get to me; I use it as motivation. As soon as somebody say something negative, I want to build off it. I don't let it get to my head.  
  
  Q. Do you have a cause you want to help off the court? Every player usually picks some type of cause that they do like off the court. Do you have a certain cause that you would like to expand on now that you'll be a pro and people will take example from you?   
 JOHN WALL: The main thing is I love kids so I wouldn't mind having a camp or being able to go to the YMCA and talk to kids. We did an NBA Kids the other day and that meant a lot to me, and as a prospect, I wish I had gotten a chance to see guys at that age.   
  
  Q. Last year was not a good year for Washington, a lot of things went bad. How important is it for you to come in and set a new culture and a new tone?   
 JOHN WALL: It's key, but it's tough, everybody is good on that level. I can't get frustrated if we are not winning that many games or go on a 0-10 losing streak, you just have to stay confident and trust in your teammates. In that level, it's different than high school or college, you might lose a couple of games in a row. So just stick together and keep your team together.   
  
  Q. You might go back out there and watch four of your teammates get drafted in the first round; what does that mean?   
 JOHN WALL: That's going to mean a lot. I want everybody to get picked. Once I made Eric and Daniel -- I already told them, y'all played okay, you play okay, you have a chance to reach your dream and hopefully tonight is a night all of us can reach our dream in the first round.   
  
  Q. Did anybody talk to you about what to expect in NBA life?   
 JOHN WALL: I'm a person that wants to look ahead and stuff and be mature on the next level, so I notice a lot of things that basically you have to spotlight on 24/7 everywhere you go and you have to watch who you surround yourself with.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT