NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 12, 2016
John Wall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOHN WALL: I think without my coaches and my teammates and coaches that voted for me and the fans, I wouldn't be in the position I am today.   
 Q.  How are you?  
JOHN WALL: I'm all right.  I'm a little sore, but I'm all right.  I've got my trainer here giving me treatment.   
 Q.  What is the difference between last season with this current season?  
JOHN WALL: The big difference is we're not playing defense this season and we've had a lot of injuries.   
 Q.  And the key for the recovery for the Washington Wizards for this season?  
JOHN WALL: Just got to come out and play better basketball.  We've got 31 games left.  It's not a lot of games when you think of how fast the NBA season goes.  You have three games in a row coming off the break.  We've just got to go out and compete.  We know what it takes to win.  We've got to go sacrifice our bodies and sacrifice what we need to do and make it happen.   
 Q.  Your favorite for the Slam Dunk Contest and the three-point shooter?  
JOHN WALL: Zach LaVine, Steph Curry   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) how much power (indiscernible)?  
JOHN WALL: It's tough.  I think we have a franchise guy.  Front office is definitely going to talk to him and see what he wants and try to build a team around him.  But Brandon, that's their job.  Our job as professional athletes is to play basketball and make sure our guys are ready to play every night.  I think we can say what we like to play with and what we like to do.  But they're hired to make the final decision.   
 Q.  What do you think of this being Kobe Bryant's last All-Star Game?  
JOHN WALL: Can't really put it in words right now.  Basically the Michael Jordan of our era is what I see with all of his dedication to the game, his competitive drive.  He's one of those guys that always wants the ball in a tough situation.  No matter the circumstances, he believes in himself, no matter what.   
 Q.  Is it good for you guys and good for the league to see Dwyane Wade healthy again?  
JOHN WALL: It's great.  D-Wade always shows you glimpses.  A lot of people wrote  him off, but when he's healthy you know what kind of D-Wade you're going to get.  It's probably not going to be the same, but he's showing you glimpses.  It lets you know how much respect he has for the game of basketball.  Winning three championships, and he's finally able to be healthy.  He deserves that.  It's something you can't deny.   
 Q.  The celebration you see for Kobe this weekend, do you envision that down the road for Dwyane?  
JOHN WALL: I really can't tell you.  I think he'll get the same type of love.  But 20 years is a lot of years for Kobe doing what he did.  He has a lot of stuff coming with him, and I think he's going down the right road, going to all these games on the road.  Lot of people gave him his last video.  I think D-Wade can get the same type of treatment, but those are two massive players in this league.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT