NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2015
John Wall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  What are you most excited about this weekend?  JOHN WALL: Just having an opportunity to be able to be with all the other great stars and have some fun and enjoy myself in the All-Star Game.   Q.  Who are you most excited to be with playing for or against?  JOHN WALL: All the guys.  I feel last year was fun.  It was a great experience for the first time.  There was a lot of excitement, a lot of first-timers.  I know how they feel because I was in their situation last year.   Q.  Is it special to be here in Madison Square Garden?  JOHN WALL: It's great.  It's the Mecca of basketball.  There's no funner place to play in the league than in that arena.  Brings back a lot of memories.  When the bright lights are on, it's time to perform.   Q.  John, you said this All-Star week you wanted to spend more time with your mom and do stuff.  How has that been?  JOHN WALL: She's on her way here.  Yesterday I had media and stuff and I let her stay home.  She'll be here today.  We'll have time to hang out.   Q.  What is your goal on Sunday?  JOHN WALL: My goal?  I would love to break Magic's all-time assist record, but if not, just have fun out there and try to win the game.  We won last year and try to repeat.   Q.  Playing here would you miss Marcin Gortat?  Almost got here.  JOHN WALL: Would I miss him?   Q.  Would you miss him in the game?  JOHN WALL: I wish he was here.  I would be excited to have another teammate with me.  It's kind of tough for a big man to play in this type of game.  They don't get the ball as much.  It's more of a guard and try to put-on-a-show-type of game.   Q.  (Inaudible) .  JOHN WALL: I think those guys are more comfortable.  Just have fun.  There's a lot of nerves out there because there's a lot of people watching.  Main thing is try to make a dunk -- not try to go three or four times.  The crowd will be taken out of it.  I sat down for five hours before I did my last dunk.  I was really nervous.  You're going to be nervous.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT