NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 14, 2014
John Wall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Is it a special club to be from Kentucky basketball?
JOHN WALL:   Yeah, Big Blue Nation.   There's nothing better than that.   I think they got the best fans in college basketball, the best arena.   And if you go there, you'll see what I'm talking about.   Everything is like a family.   Everything you do is all for one.

Q.   John, you got to see DeMarcus earlier this week when he came to play the Wizards.   What did you say to him to get him to keep his head up about not being here with you?
JOHN WALL:   I just told him to keep playing.   I thought he was playing the best basketball he can play. 
And he's maturing.   Especially not getting technicals and things like that.   I think he's taking the right step in the right direction. 
And this year didn't work out for him, but I said you can't do no better, but just keep playing the right way and just keep helping the team as much as possible. 

Q.   Do you think he's the type of guy who would take that‑‑ take the snub personal and try to prove people wrong?
JOHN WALL:   Yeah, he's like me.   He uses a lot of stuff as motivation.   It's probably something that he's dealt with most of his career, but I think he's done a great job of playing this season. 
It didn't work out for him to be an All‑Star, but he's still got a lot of games left that he can finish and try to make his team better.

Q.   What do you think is the next step for him to possibly be here next year?
JOHN WALL:   I think play the same way he played this season.   I think he's playing at a high level, averaging 20‑some points and double‑figure rebounds.   That's very tough to do. 

Q.   Is it a matter of getting the wins?
JOHN WALL:   I think that's the biggest thing, is winning.   I think that's the biggest thing.   You got to be able to win.

Q.   Do you think it's been difficult for other teams of all freshmen or freshman based to win?   And what was so special about your team and the 2012 team at Kentucky that won the title?
JOHN WALL:   Well, our team basically‑‑ I mean, it all starts with your point guard and how he gets everybody to play together.   It's very tough to get a lot of players that was the No. 1 go‑to guy on their team in high school and average 20‑some points. 
So give each other and trust each other.   And you basically got to like each other.   Sometimes it doesn't work out.   And Coach does the best he can to try to get everybody to like each other, but sometimes certain players just can't play with a lot of super stars on their team at once. 
I think the 2012 team, they did a great job with that.   They figured it out and added a couple veteran guys that did everything they could to help the team.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT