AL DIVISION SERIES: BLUE JAYS VS RANGERS
October 7, 2016
Jeff Banister
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TORONTO - 5, TEXAS - 3
THE MODERATOR: We'll get started with Jeff Banister.
Q. How would you describe what your offense went through today?
JEFF BANISTER: Well, I think we had baserunners on I think seven innings total, six, seven innings.  We gave ourselves opportunities, didn't get the hit when we needed it.
Obviously I think it comes down to they made some pitches in some situations that we didn't.  And so our guys continue to go up there -- I felt like their approaches were good.  We just didn't come away with any type of hit that would break anything open for us.
Q. What were your thoughts on Darvish today?
JEFF BANISTER: Four unexecuted pitches, is what it boils down to.  Situation with, I think, Tulo, we were trying to go down away.  We left the ball in Encarnacion we left the ball out again.  Encarnacion, Pillar and Carrera, we missed across the plate.  They hit the ball out of the ballpark.  Other than that, I felt like Yu threw the ball well, came out really well.
Felt like the ball was coming out clean.  I do think that there were some situations in fastball counts that he tried to go with the offspeed stuff, didn't hit the offspeed stuff.  But what it boils down to is a thin margin in these type of games.  Four home runs and four unexecuted pitches.
Q. The defense is most important during the Postseason.  Is there any, like, any extra drills for stabilizing infield errors, like, for future?
JEFF BANISTER: Well, I think we work on our defense every day.  I'm not real sure where -- the situation today, you know, felt like that we were clean.
There was, I think, one situation.  That's not what got us today.  What got us today was four unexecuted pitches and we didn't capitalize any run-scoring opportunities.
Q. How would you describe the arduous task that faces you all now?
JEFF BANISTER: Yeah, I mean, we're up against it.  We've got to win three in a row.  We were on the other side of that last year.  I mean, we've been in situations where we won three games in a row before.  We've got to start with one.
We've got to come out, get a clean game from the starter.  Manage the game from the starting spot.  Play good defense and capitalize on run-scoring opportunities, and we've got to start with one.
It's an uphill battle, one that is going to be a challenge.  But I think our guys will continue to play.  You saw it today.  They continue to play all the way through.
Q. Is it tough to see what you got from your top two starters here in these first two games?  I'm assuming you were expecting much better than that.
JEFF BANISTER: Obviously that goes without saying.  However, these guys are going out.  They've been getting after it all year long.  And it is a challenge, one that we felt comfortable with those two guys going at the front end for us.
So when you see situations like that, it is a challenge, but you've got to fight through it.  These guys, look, they've been able to cover each other all year long.  And we put up an effort today.  We just came up short.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT