KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2018
Chris Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talking to your caddie, he said you chipped in on the last.  So that's the cherry on top of the icing after this week.
CHRIS WILLIAMS: He said that the only way we're going to make birdie is if you miss the green, because I made a lot of my birdies from off the green this week, long putting and so forth.  But I putted a lot better today, a little nervous coming in, I got to say, counting the pennies before the tournament's finished.  But I played well the whole week, I hit the irons great the whole week and just so excited I did so well in a major.  This is the best finish I've had in a major.  The last one was in a U.S. Open in Omaha, so this is fifth, I think to come all this way and finish fifth, jet lag, I can't complain, I really can't.
Q. As we saw after your win last year, you said you could really relax and play your own game and it looks like that's going to happen again this year.
CHRIS WILLIAMS: Well, from what it looks like, I mean almost probably got enough money now to keep my card for this year for next year.  So to do that at my age, 59, and it's very difficult if you're outside the career category so for me to be here again for another year, I just, it's a privilege.
Q. And it's great that you can, not relax, but there's no stress, I guess.
CHRIS WILLIAMS: No, I can just try again, play my game like I did last year and just see how it turns out.  If Paul wins it will be tough to catch him, of course, but it will be nice if he does win because it's one for the European guys again.  So that's great.
Q. Great for confidence as well the fact that you got the Senior Open coming up and the U.S. Senior Open as well?
CHRIS WILLIAMS: Yeah, it's great, it's good.  I think that just to say that the European guys did well this week I think Phillip had a good round, Paul's had a good round, he's in contention, and myself, so I think it's been a good showing for the European guys.
Q. Thoughts going into Denmark?
CHRIS WILLIAMS: Yeah, I can't wait to get home and see the family.  I haven't been on tour for almost six months and now here we are I can't wait to get home just to share this moment with them.  So that's great.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT