KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2018
Chris Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk me through your day.  It looks like you took it relatively in your stride.
CHRIS WILLIAMS: I hit the ball unbelievably well today.  I knocked the stick out I think almost half my round I was putting for birdie from under 10 foot.  The putter just went ice cold today, so I really just struggled with the putting.  But it just makes par easier if I can do that for the weekend, that will be great.  So just going to work on my putting a little bit and see if I can get some confidence back with the putting.  The first round I was a lot more confident with the putter.  So, but I'm happy I'm here, to be playing this well.  I made some good putts.  The four birdies that I made were, two of them were off the green, so I'm very happy about things like that.
Q. As you say, happy to be here, but it's just reward for the hard work that you put in last year.
CHRIS WILLIAMS: Yeah, it's nice.  These guys are good players, as you know, and to be up there and be playing with them and to compete with them, it's fantastic.  My wife will be happy about it, at least.
Q. One shot off the lead going into the weekend, there's no better position in golf to be rather than at the top.
CHRIS WILLIAMS: Yes, it's great to be in that position and it's challenging to yourself and to your mind and to set yourself up for another good year and hopefully I can do that.  But it's two days and it's miles away from the finishing line.  So as you know, we are always used to playing three rounds and that fourth round is just it's like that one step too far sometimes.  So, but I'm looking forward to it.  It's a great golf course, the greens are fantastic, and just looking forward to having a nice weekend.
Q. And the golf course, it's incredibly presented, but there are pitfalls on every hole, not just the greens, you got water hazards to look out for, bunkers everywhere.
CHRIS WILLIAMS: Yeah, I think that the biggest challenge is trying to get your ball to be on the same level as where the pin is.  Because you can hit a really good shot and be five feet from the wrong line and then you got a 30-foot putt instead of a 5-foot putt.  So trying to get the ball on the level where the pin is, that's the important thing.  Not just hitting it well, you can hit it lousy and be on the same level, that's perfect.  But the course is a typical Nicklaus design course, wide open, it gives you options to open up your shoulders and give it a rip, but the emphasis is on good iron play.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT