CHICAGO FIRE MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 3, 2020
Francisco Calvo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Chicago - 2, Montreal - 2
 Q. Hey, Francisco, first of all, your hair looks fine.  Don't worry about it.  It looks good (laughing.)  Actually, looking at, talking about the news yesterday with you, with the contract going for another year, what was your reaction to that?  And since you have come to the Fire, how would you evaluate your impact on the team both on and off the field?
 FRANCISCO CALVO:   Well, to start with the option, I mean, with the option that they give me for one more year, I'm just really happy, really happy, really excited to be back next year with the team.  Chicago Fire, since I came here, they opened the doors, like, I'm part of the family.  So this club shows just family, just like everything is together, everything is getting better and better, so I'm really happy to be part of this amazing club.
 I think I just try to do my best every time I step on the field.  Outside of the field, I just try to push my teammates, try to keep the team always together and just fight for our goals.  But first of all, it's get to playoffs and then we'll see what happens.
 Q. How important was it for you guys to get a point today knowing that you have a tough trip coming to Kansas City?
 FRANCISCO CALVO:   It's important.  It's important always when you get on the road.  It's not easy, the travel.  You don't have too much time to rest.  It's not easy to get points on the road.  But when you get one, it's good.  It's good.  I mean, we're taking some good points at home, but when we travel we need to stay compact, try to play our football.  We have a couple of chances that we can, we could win the game.  But football is how it is and now we need to rest and go to Kansas.
 Q. Can you walk us through your goal, what you were seeing, how it played out, and how you were able to put it in the back of the net?
 FRANCISCO CALVO:   No, I just, it was a corner kick and then he, like, the play just keep going and then I just stayed in the area and then it wasn't even close that the keeper touched the ball and I get a header.  Actually, I thought it was going out in the beginning, but then thank God it just got in and then we could tie the game.
 Q. Rafa talked about how, he just kind of said you guys had a brief conversation after the game, about how he thought you had a really solid defensive performance.  As this year has gone on, as a coach, how do you think he's helped you with your game?  He's had a lot of really good things to say and has been really complimentary of the efforts you've put in on the field this year.
 FRANCISCO CALVO:   I mean, Rafa just have an amazing word for him because, first of all, he's a fantastic person.  He's an incredible coach, and he just helped me to, he just want me to improve, I mean, get better every day, day by day.  He push me because he knows that I have a lot of things to give personally and to the team.  So I just appreciate every word, every push he give me, every, even if he scream to me, I really appreciate that.  So I just have a lot of respect for him and I think together we can do a lot of things, a lot of good things for this club.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT