CHICAGO FIRE MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 20, 2020
Francisco Calvo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Columbus 3, Chicago 0 Francisco Calvo.
Q. Thank you for making some time tonight.  I know that maybe the result, the score line didn't exactly reflect the game, but I guess just what's the takeaway from tonight's game, what's the lessons from tonight's game after what happened?
FRANCISCO CALVO:   I feel the same way like you and like Raphael, I'm pretty sure, I'm positive it's not a 3-0 game, hundred percent.  But then when you have Zardes, which is the No. 9 of the national team of the USA, you can't give them too much space.  You can't give them time.
Columbus is a great team, but I think we put them in a lot of problems a lot of times, you know.  So to be honest, in the field, I didn't see a lot of difference when we talk about playing, like playing football.
But then when -- I mean, if we don't score, then you make one little mistake they are going to score.  These kind of teams, they just do that.  But then I'm still thinking that we are going to set our tone and we are going to score a lot of goals and hopefully in the best one.
Q. Going back to the Vancouver, and today it seems like you guys hold up well and then you just take a play or two off, and then you concede.  So what is it going to take for you guys to sort of make sure you're playing for that full 90 minutes?
FRANCISCO CALVO:   Yeah, I think we need to be concentrate 90 minutes since -- I'm the kind of player that played the games even five hours before the game, you know.  I'm pretty sure a lot of players in my team do that.  But we need to concentrate.  Don't give anything away in 90 minutes because when you give something away, you can see, they take three goals instead of -- I mean, just that 90' goal, which is a great goal, but then we give away two, and that's unacceptable, and we're going to correct that and keep working.
Q. You just mentioned what I wanted to ask a little bit, but two of the goals, there seemed to be mistakes.  But that second goal they scored from Nagbe, is there any way you guys stop that?  Is there anything you could have done differently there, or is that just a great goal?
FRANCISCO CALVO:   I mean, it's a really good -- it's a great goal.  It's a great goal.  I have to see the play again.  I mean, I was a little bit in the other -- I mean, almost in front of him but I couldn't do anything, and then -- I don't know.  I don't know.  I want to talk about that goal to be honest.  I think it's a great goal and then you have to clap him because he put it in the right spot.  That's it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT