TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 18, 2005
Mariano Puerta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions in English or Chinese.  
 
 
Q.  What are your feelings leaving the Masters Cup? 
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  I leave with a great feeling.  I came here to play the Masters as an alternate.  I had the chance to play all three matches and play against the boys.  I leave with a very good sensation, as I said.  Every player dreams of playing a Masters.  I managed to play a Masters, and I'm leaving happy.  
 
Q.  Looking back to your year this year, what is your feeling? 
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  Without doubt it's the best year in my career.  I worked very, very hard for that.  I'm very happy the way things turned out.  I had the goal of finishing in the top 10, and I finished close to that - a couple of positions behind that.  I'll work very hard next year for that, to finish in the top 10.  
 
Q.  You didn't play your best in Shanghai.  What is the reason?  Is that because of the surface? 
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  Sure, I mean, everybody knows that it's not my favorite surface.  I've never played many matches on this surface, and I never won many matches on this surface.  Obviously, by the fact of getting to the final of Roland Garros, people expect more from you.  But, as I said, I've never played many times on this surface.  I didn't make the final of Australia or the US Open.  
 
 
Q.  Generally what do you think about the China Masters Cup?  Who do you think will have the biggest chance to win the Masters Cup? 
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  I think that obviously Federer is always the favorite.  But he's going to have to play at his best.  Today I played against Davydenko, and he's playing at a great level.  At the same time I also think that Nalbandian is a player that can beat anybody.  
 
Q.  According to your experience with Davydenko, can you evaluate the chances of Nalbandian beating Davydenko in the semifinals? 
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  I think he's got great chances.  David is an unbelievable player.  He's playing great.  In fact, I do think that this is Nalbandian's favorite surface.  This is where he plays his best tennis.  
 
Q.  Nalbandian has a bigger chance? 
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  Yes, Nalbandian almost beat Federer on the first day.  
 
Q.  What do you like to do besides playing tennis? 
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  I like very much cars, I like very much soccer.  Since a couple weeks, I like also golf.  
 
Q.  Have you been out with other players, like Coria, to go out for fun, just to play with your countrymen?  Do you always have fun with them? 
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  Yeah, yeah, I have contact with the other players.  At night, obviously not.  But always go out to lunch, for example, to eat, or even for dinner.  
 
 
Q.  I want to know, are you always with your countrymen, like Coria, like Nalbandian, play football or golf? 
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  Yeah, I always go out with the other Argentinians, especially with Gaudio.  Good friends.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT