TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 14, 2005
Mariano Puerta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions in English or Chinese, please. 


Q.  Are you aware or have been told that there could be a procedure pending on you? 

MARIANO PUERTA:  I don't know. 

Q.  When were you exactly informed that you would play against Gaudio instead of passing a free day? 

MARIANO PUERTA:  Around 5 p.m., something like that. 

Q.  After match, how do you think of the court, of the floor? 

MARIANO PUERTA:  The court is very fast, but we've been practicing for the last five days and, you know, nothing bad.  It's just very fast.  No surprise. 

Q.  May you say something about the psychological situation in your head about all the situation with doping, to play this Masters in this situation the last coming year, then if it's true or not, but if you didn't make the official photo of yourself Sunday and why, if you know why. 

MARIANO PUERTA:  I think you're giving too much importance to that.  The reality is Gonzalez was not on the picture either.  The reality is nothing.  You guys are giving too much importance to that.

Q.  How difficult is it to play this tournament in this situation in general? 

MARIANO PUERTA:  He said it was kind of strange for him because he was not really ready to play today.  Not really ready because all the players are here and he never expected he was going to play.  Then he had to walk on court and play, and he felt a bit nervous when he was playing.  He said he will probably feel much better on Wednesday when he has to play again because he didn't know he had to play. 

Q.  Do you consider to be lucky this year or sometimes a little bit unlucky for all what has happened during the year 2005?

MARIANO PUERTA:  I worked very, very hard this year for what I've achieved, and because of this work, I have done what I have done. 

Q.  There were never so many South Americans at the Masters, but many of them are alternates.  How do you feel, do you think this is incredible, do you think this is normal that at the end of the year there are so many injured people? 

MARIANO PUERTA:  The fact that there are not all the players here because of injury probably is a coincidence.  The players, those top players that are up there, they do want to be fit 100% in order to play.  Probably that's the reason why, they don't feel if they're not 100%, they do not want to play.  That is why they are here, because they've been called to play, and that's what he's going to do. 

Q.  So South Americans are stronger and fitter than the others?  Everybody else got injured and you don't. 

MARIANO PUERTA:  No, it's all a coincidence.  It happened only this year.  It happened this year with this Masters.  It's only a coincidence. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT