TMS - MADRID
October 20, 2005
Mariano Puerta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 
 
 
Q.  What do you think was the key point for which you lost the match?
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  He took me to my limits from the beginning.  He served really well, too.  I'm happy because I played a good match at a high level.  But somewhat disappointed because it was an opportunity to add points towards the Masters.  Anyway, I still have chances, so let's see.  If I keep working, reach my goal. 
 
Q.  Don't you think the problem was your return?  You weren't really sure about those. 
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  Yes, I wasn't feeling comfortable with my returns.  But, as I just said, he was serving really well today.  The first time I returned a second serve was late in the match.  It was difficult to return his service, yes.  High speed.  
 
Q.  What do you think David is capable of doing, as you've seen him today? 
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  I think he can reach this weekend.  I saw him play real good tennis on the court.  He served and returned very, very well.  He's been moving fast.  He's been playing great tennis since the beginning of this year.  He has many chances of getting far into the tournament.  
 
Q.  It is difficult to compare matches against different opponents, but when did you play better, yesterday or today? 
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  Yesterday I returned better.  But I must say that their serves are different.  David's serve was getting to me lower.  That was difficult to return.  Then I think I played good tennis.  I don't think I played worse today than yesterday.  But I had an opponent that played great tennis from behind the baseline and made things difficult for me.  
 
Q.  You still have a mathematical possibility of playing in the Masters.  Would you go? 
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  Yes.  Even as an alternate. 
 
Q.  Are you going to play Basel? 
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  Yes, and Lyon, which is a tournament that can give me points for the Masters.  And, yes, I'll go to Lyon and to Paris.  That's the end.  
 
Q.  Have you calculated what you need to get in those tournaments? 
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  I must add more points than Davydenko, that's what I know.  I'm not really sure about the points I'm missing.  It depends on him, too, of him not adding points in Paris, and me winning matches.  
 
Q.  You don't want to talk about Roland Garros? 
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  No, and you know it.  
 
Q.  The qualifying round, Argentina at Belarus. 
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  When was it?  
 
Q.  Last year. 
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  No, I wasn't there.  
 
Q.  This year, any way you're going to play in Slovakia?  You played in Slovakia? 
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  Yeah.  I think it was a fast court.  I think Spaniards also felt it this way.  It was within the rules.  When you play in Slovakia, you always have difficulties.  We were looking forward to winning the Davis Cup.  We were working together.  We put a lot of effort on our side.  We are looking forward towards next year.  We need to think about the Davis Cup as our first priority.  
 
Q.  Yesterday you said the anti-doping system worked okay.  Do you know the difference between the ATP, ITF, control system?  If everything works okay, what is the sense of changing things?  What's the point? 
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  I don't really know.  That's a thing directors and the organizational body knows, not me.  I'm not informed.  I cannot express my opinion.  
 
Q.  I wanted to ask about the crowd, how the crowd supported you. 
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  Great.  That was great.  Exceptional support, yeah.  When I left the court, I noticed.  Yesterday, I did too.  People were very polite.  It's normal that they supported the Spaniard.  But I feel grateful, too, and optimistic, hoping to come here next year.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT