TMS - MADRID
October 19, 2005
Mariano Puerta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions in Spanish.  
 
 
Q.  Good victory, tough match.  What were the key points? 
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  I'm very happy because I knew it was going to be a short match, to be decided in very few points.  I needed to be ready to take advantage of the few possibilities I was granted.  I was focused, trying to make my passing shots, hold my serve.  
 
Q.  The second set was almost finished, 3-1, what happened afterwards?  A lapse in concentration? 
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  I had a brilliant opportunity, a breakpoint, but he played well that point.  He plays well from behind the baseline.  He raced a lot also and tried to make winners.  That was very positive of his play.  
 
Q.  The court is cold, strange, isn't it? 
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  No, it's hot.  It's very warm inside.  
 
Q.  But because of the atmosphere. 
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  Yes, I'm used to this.  But the surface I do like.  I don't find it especially quick.  Sometimes I do because there are a few meters of altitude more.  But I feel comfortable.  I'm happy on this court.  I wish to get ahead in this tournament.  I'm looking forward to this.  
 
Q.  What are your goals, your key goals in this tournament?
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  I have a key match against Ferrer tomorrow.  We're very close in the ranking.  I think from now every match is key, both here and in Paris because it adds points.  Next match is a key opportunity for me towards Shanghai.  
 
Q.  Avoiding the issue, how is it possible for you to concentrate, keeping in mind all this gossip, controversial doping subject? 
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  I cannot answer.  Sorry.  
 
Q.  There are many Argentine players in Madrid and all over the circuit.  They're playing great.  How do you explain the success of Argentine tennis? 
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  I think there are many good players.  The coincidence is that there are so many of them together.  I think years ago this thing happened, then there was a vacuum, a void, nothing happened, and now it is coincidence again to have all Argentines in the same period of time together.  I also think we worked hard individually.  Except David and Guillermo have been supported by the Federation.  The rest of us, well, we've made our efforts by ourselves and with our technical team.  
 
Q.  What is the problem you have with the Federation?  You all complain about the same thing. 
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  Well, you need to take into account that Argentina is not a strong country compared to the United States, for instance, or Europe.  Argentina is a humble country which doesn't have the support of the Federation like other countries might have.  Our economy is weaker.  Our country is suffering a lot right now.  I find it normal, understandable that we are not supported as other countries might support their players, like France, Australia, that has a Grand Slam.  
 
Q.  Have you taken any legal action against L'Equipe, the newspaper? 
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  I cannot answer.  I cannot answer.  I'm sorry.  
 
Q.  You cannot answer the question about whether you have taken any legal action against L'Equipe? 
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  No.  
 
Q.  Coria said he doesn't feel protected, safe on the circuit.  He said it today, because of this doping issue.  Things are not working okay. 
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  I think he's not right.  I think things are well done, that's it.  It is a fact that none of the players feel safe because the tests are very strict.  But law is equal for everyone.  
 
Q.  (In English.)  After Madrid are you going to Lyon and Paris? 
 
MARIANO PUERTA:  (In English.)  Yeah, I'm going to Lyon and finish in Paris, for sure.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT