TMS MONTE CARLO
April 14, 2005
Mariano Puerta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Why do you think you lost? 

MARIANO PUERTA:  I believe he played better.  He solved the problem of the match.  I think that's the reason why.  It was very tight during the three hours, but at the end of the match he played better. 


Q.  Do you think he had cramps at the beginning of the set?  Do you think he had a problem with the tempo?  Do you believe he was injured, or what? 

MARIANO PUERTA:  I felt that he was a bit bothered in certain places, but I never thought that it was very serious.  Anyway, it was not very important because from the time they started, he still played a set and a half and kept on running, so...


Q.  You missed a lot of balls with your forehand.  How do you explain that? 

MARIANO PUERTA:  In fact, Volandri played very well, at a very high level.  I had to reach the limit.  When we were playing my forehand to his backhand, he was playing his backhand very well.  I mean, he has a famous backhand.  Therefore, I felt more pressure on my forehand, and this is why I made more mistakes.


Q.  You just beat Volandri last week.  Your matches are always equal.  He had two set points, lost the points.  Today it was the same, things like this.  Do you think he is a little better on clay and you are a little better on cement? 

MARIANO PUERTA:  In fact we are both clay court players.  He plays very well.  We spend a good time on the court when we play each other, but we are about at the same level which means that one day he can win and the other day I can win.  I was three points away from the victory today.  I was not able to win because he didn't let me win.  I made mistakes because he played two winners on shots that I could have won.  He forced me to make mistakes.  So those four points, he won them because he forced me.  Also, it was bothering me because he was not making mistakes at a stage where I could have won the match.  He made no mistakes.


Q.  You know him very well.  Do you think there are more things that improved in the last matches, more things that improved on the court?

MARIANO PUERTA:  I believe he won the match because of his forehand.  Otherwise, it would have been easy for me.  I think not only does he play a good forehand, but he also made winners with the forehand.  He made at least 20 of them during the match.  Before, his forehand was very bad, and now not only did he improve his forehand but also he wins points with his forehand. 


Q.  What happened about yourself?  You were at a high level, then you had some problems, then you almost disappear completely, and now you are coming back.  We are happy you are back, but what happened at that moment there? 

MARIANO PUERTA:  Well, the reasons are well-known.  First, I had surgery on my wrist, then I was one year out.  Because of my wrist, I stayed one year out and I was suspended one year.  Also, I had asthma. 


Q.  You have a new physical trainer coming from weightlifting.  What does he bring to you?

MARIANO PUERTA:  It's been already two years I've been with my physical trainer, and also I'm very happy with my work with him.  Back home he has many tennis players working with him, and he does exactly the same with me that he does with Gaudio and everybody else.  I think there's no secret, they all do the same. 


Q.  Can you tell us his name and what tennis players he's working with. 

MARIANO PUERTA:  His name is Lecman, and the tennis players he's working with are Artoni, a doubles player, Della Torre, and Marcacio. 


Q.  Are you coming to Rome? 

MARIANO PUERTA:  Yes, I am.  I'm going to Rome even if I have to play the quallies. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT