NORTH TEXAS UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 4, 2017
Seth Littrell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








North Texas - 24, Louisiana Tech - 23
North Texas Interview
COACH LITTRELL: We've got to eliminate a couple of penalties and make sure we stay or get off the field on third down.  Again it's something we need to continue to work on.  But overall as a team I feel like we're much better.
But gotta give a lot of credit to LA Tech.  I thought they fought extremely hard.  They're a very talented football team.
Their defense probably played against our -- their DBs were probably the most physical we've played.  Did a heck of a job.  We've got to get much better with some of the press coverage stuff.  We'll bounce back and get back to work at it this week.
Q. You're bowl eligible.  Talk about what that means for this program.
COACH LITTRELL: It's huge.  It's big to get that monkey off your back, get the six wins in the season.  Just having that opportunity to now go accomplish your mission which is winning our bowl.  So it's a big game, big day.  And now take some of the pressure off, looking forward, go out, compete and continue to get better every week.
Q. One guy that had a terrific day was Jeffery Wilson who really bounced back from last week.  Are you proud of the way he performed today?
COACH LITTRELL: He's like all of them.  They're just a resilient group.  I'm proud of the way he fights because he's not 100 percent.  So he still is sore in some areas.  And a lot of guys probably wouldn't go out there and do the things he's doing.
But he's a great football player but he's a better person who loves his teammates and he's going to sacrifice himself for them.  And I was proud of the way he bounced back.
Q. Gutsy call there going for it on fourth-and-one in your own end.  Why did you think that was the right thing to do?
COACH LITTRELL: On the road, I almost did it the one before on fourth-and-two.  And felt like we could have made it, maybe pinned them deep, have a shot at (indiscernible) position.  At that point in the game I just didn't want them to get the ball back.
I felt like that was our time to go.  It was kind of a gut call, gut feeling.  And it worked out good.
Q. Defense really played well for you.  They made a stand there at the end.  How important is it just when they got your end of the field for them to kind of bow up there and --
COACH LITTRELL: It was huge.  And again, they played (indiscernible) physical tonight.  They're getting better.  Every single week they're getting better.  Still have a long way to go all three phases, but I just like their fight.  They knew they had to bow their neck.  And that situation put them in an extremely long field goal, and gave us a chance.
Q. Couldn't get much going early offensively --
COACH LITTRELL: Well, yeah, they gave us a hard time.  I think a lot of it, they're a good football team.  I think defensively -- I thought their D backs, No. 21, I think, he may not be as tall, but he can fly and he's physical.  I thought their DBs as a group -- we've gotta do a much better job at receiver.
And I didn't feel like we got off much their press coverage well.  And I felt like we've done a lot better throughout the season.  But for whatever reason we didn't get that done today.
So you've got to give them a lot of credit.  I thought overall as a team they're a good football team.  It's always a challenge to come here and win.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT