ST. JUDE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY SMITH & NEPHEW
June 12, 2010
Heath Slocum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Heath, another beautiful round of golf today, very steady 4-under 66, nice birdie at 18. You stuck in it tight. Tell me about your day.
     HEATH SLOCUM: Obviously it was a very good day. I played great. I kind of hit a poor tee ball off the first and kind of hit a great slot in there to make a birdie. From there I played really solid and very pleased with my first round.

 Q. Talk about the shot at 18, because that nearly went in the hole. Standing up by the green, left you about 3 feet. I know at 18 on Friday you kind of missed one, let one get away, but you nailed that one.
     HEATH SLOCUM: I had perfect yardage. Just hit a full 9-iron and trying to let the wind hope to bring it back to the hole and it was. Perfect distance and the 3-footer I got in today, yesterday I let one sneak away. That's alright. I got one today.

 Q. Do you do a lot of scoreboard watching because the leaders didn't pull away. Garrigus has shot some pretty good golf for the last few holes, but you're certainly in contention for tomorrow.
     HEATH SLOCUM: Yeah. I wasn't staring it down. It's hard to miss some of them out there. I saw early no one seemed to be breaking away. I saw Garrigus get to 12. I'm going to have to play solid tomorrow, play a great round. I feel I'm in position if I do, I might have a chance to win.

 Q. Bogey-free, 66 on a course that was playing much tougher than all week. Got to be thrilled with that.
     HEATH SLOCUM: Yeah. Hit the ball great, hit a lot of good iron shots and putting good. I made a few putts here and there, got a couple balls up and down that were crucial on days like today. Very pleased with the way I played today and hope that continues into tomorrow.

 Q. It's brutally hot. You look nice and refreshed. You played golf at college in Alabama. Your shirt is buttoned all the way to the top. This heat didn't phase you at all, did it?
     HEATH SLOCUM: It's hot out there. Yeah, no doubt about it. But yeah, you're right. I grew up in the South, so I'm definitely used to the heat. I don't mind it. I'd like a little shade and some water every once in a while, but it was hot out there, and it's what we kind of expect. Eat barbeque and Elvis. We got the heat today.

 Q. You posted the 66. Got to be real happy?
     HEATH SLOCUM: I played great today. Obviously this course, especially with the wind and just started to firm up a little bit. I definitely played my best round of golf today by far, and not just by the score but by the way I played. I was quite pleased, and, you know, I was hoping my goal was to try the make up a little ground on the leaders. But right now I don't know even what's leading. But feel like I put myself in position with a great round tomorrow, I might have a chance.

 Q. Finish on a high note, 18, great shot, you almost hole it. Talk about that shot.
     HEATH SLOCUM: I hit a perfect 9-iron. One of those good yardages where you can hit it full. I knew if I hit it solid, it will be perfect. Let the wind kind of ride it towards the pin. Just have to be perfect, and I made the 3- footer. It was nice to have something that -- wasn't an easy one, but shortest one for birdie on the last.

 Q. This weather has dried up the greens and made them roll faster. You're familiar with that. How did you approach your green shots? Because everybody else has really been struggling.
     HEATH SLOCUM: You have to be really precise. I don't know if there's anything you can do different. I think sometimes the best shot is just short of the green, you know what I mean, not necessarily trying to fly it on, because you can just get balls up and down. 
     That's what I did today. I did miss a few greens. Hitting a good shot where I kind of wanted it to see if we can get it up and down and go to the next. Par is a good score around this golf course.

 Q. Putting, you're happy with that.
     HEATH SLOCUM: Putting can always be better. Yeah, I made enough good strokes -- I made enough putts to shoot a good round. That's going to have to continue tomorrow to have a chance. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT