THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2010
Heath Slocum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Just start out with some opening comments about your round. 
 HEATH SLOCUM: I got off to really the start I wanted to get off to today, made some birdies, made the turn at a couple under, a good par save on 10, birdies on 11 and 12, rolling pretty good, and mis-hit an 8-iron on 13, made a bogey. Good par on 14, bad tee ball on 15, ended up in a bogey. Not making birdie on 16 kind of hurt, and then obviously the poor iron shot on 17 and making a 5 there. I had a good look at 18 and wish that would have gone in. 
 But overall it was a good day. I'm still in contention to win this golf tournament. I didn't end the round like I wanted to, but again, like I said, I feel like I'm at least still in it. Just now I have to go out and play a perfect round of golf tomorrow to have a chance to win. 

 Q. How do you put 17 and kind of the finish behind you and move forward to tomorrow?
 HEATH SLOCUM: I mean, really the simple fact that it is over. I can't draw on it. I got to 18, and I hit one of my better drives all day and one of my better iron shots. So I feel like I got it out of the head, got it out of my head, and it's just time to move forward. I'll go out tomorrow with the same kind of attitude I've had today. I'm actually playing pretty good golf right now. I feel like the putter is rolling well, so what I'm going to have to do tomorrow is play perfect and I'm going to have to finish strong. I would have liked to have had a few more shots with me, but that's what I have, so I'll just go out tomorrow and make some birdies. 

 Q. Has the weather affected your game, and are you looking forward to the cooler temperatures tomorrow?
 HEATH SLOCUM: I'm from the South; bring on the heat. Bring it on. I don't mind the heat and humidity, not at all. I'll take some cool weather, but I definitely don't mind the heat.

 Q. One last question: Any particular great memory about how your mom contributed to your golf game? Tomorrow is Mother's Day; any memory stick out from your childhood?
 HEATH SLOCUM: Probably playing golf on Mother's Day with her. We came from a very golf-oriented family, my dad a club pro, my mom an avid golfer, very good golfer, so I think probably a lot of Mother's Days were spent at the golf course playing. I don't know about one particular memory, but it was probably Mother's Day at the golf course. I don't know if she enjoyed it as much as I did, but that's where I was happy, so I think that's where she took me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT