THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 7, 2010
Heath Slocum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Some comments about your round. Obviously a great round today. You have to be feeling good about it heading into the weekend?
 HEATH SLOCUM: I do. Quick start off to the day. Birdies on 10, 11, and 12 kind of just jump-started the whole day. Played solid through the middle, nothing happened a lot. But good pars on 17 and 18. 
 I made a good up-and-down on 1. Birdied on 2. Made a good birdie on 6. A great up-and-down on 8 to save par, and then making that birdie on 9 really capped off the day. 
 You know, I was very, obviously, very pleased with the way I played today. Under a little tougher conditions, and I look forward to the challenge of the next two days.

 Q. You're in a good position going into the weekend, aren't you? 
 HEATH SLOCUM: Yeah, obviously, I'm up near the top. Any time you're in that kind of position two days to go, you've got to feel good about it. I feel good with my game right now. It's just a matter of, I want to say, continuing to do what I've been doing. And that is the mantra for the whole week is just to continue what I started a few weeks ago.

 Q. Did you get a little wind kicking up this afternoon? 
 HEATH SLOCUM: Yeah, it was windy at times. It wasn't -- I mean, it's definitely blowing a lot harder here. But it never got too, too bad, but, yeah, definitely any kind of wind out here makes this course tougher.

 Q. Yeah, the guys in the morning didn't really have wind. Some of the guys were saying playing late-early was definitely an advantage. 
 HEATH SLOCUM: Yeah, it probably helped a little bit. But when you're making putts, it all kind of equals out.

 Q. We talked yesterday and we were calculating that 67 was probably your low here. You come out better even today. Confidence-wise you've got to be sky high? 
 HEATH SLOCUM: Yeah, I feel good. I've felt good in my game for a while now. It's just kind of putting four rounds together and finishing a golf tournament. That's my job over the next two days, like I said, just to stay focused, stay calm and just play my golf game the way I'm supposed to play it and whole some putts.

 Q. Is it pressure being up at the top going into the weekend? 
 HEATH SLOCUM: Not yet. I've got a lot of work to do. So if I don't continue to play well, there is no pressure. Like I said, what I've got to go do tomorrow is just play golf and, you know, hopefully keep myself in contention going into Sunday.

 Q. You have a 65 in you? 
 HEATH SLOCUM: I hope so. I might need it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT