FRYS.COM OPEN
October 22, 2009
Heath Slocum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Back to work.   
 HEATH SLOCUM: Yeah, it was a good day. You know, kind of last week was almost like shaking some of the rust off after taking a two-week break.   
 Today was not. I absolutely hit it great. I drove it well. Some quality iron shots and made some putts. Kind of the formula that I need to follow to play well, and I did it today.  
  
  Q. Have you had a chance to reflect on your run through the FedExCup playoffs and how great it was for you?  
 HEATH SLOCUM: Not a lot. I'll be honest, very exciting, but at the same time, still just trying to get better. I'm a work in progress.   
 You know, I wanted to use the fall finish to try to win another one. Try to get some more competitive rounds doing the right thing mechanically and mentally. You know, looking for a good week this week.  
  
  Q. What's the biggest thing you think you're working on and trying to improve on?  
 HEATH SLOCUM: Just consistency, and I mean on all aspects: Ball-striking to driving to putting to chipping. It's been that kind of year where one week, two of the four will be great; some weeks none of it's too great.   
 Kind of all came to go at Barclays. I'm just working on trying to tighten things up and be a lot more consistent day-to-day, week to week.  
  
  Q. In a golf course like this, talk about playing perfect conditions.   
 HEATH SLOCUM: Yeah, perfect conditions, like you said. Not a lot of wind, sunshine, so, you know, you can hit some quality golf shots and not be affected by the wind.   
 I think that's what it's gonna take obviously, four days of that.   
  
  Q. You got a quick turnaround. Come right back out tomorrow morning. Talk about building on the momentum you have right now.   
 HEATH SLOCUM: Yeah, I mean, after I 3-putted the 17th and then birdieing the last, definitely got the -- you know, feel like I still got the momentum going. What I'll do is come out tomorrow morning and try to continue it. Try to make some birdies.   
 I have a feeling with as many guys out here that can play, you'll have to make them to stay up.  
  
  Q. Final thing. You talk about consistency. Talk about the value of bouncing back. You get that bogey on the 17th hole and you're coming right back and embracing it.   
 HEATH SLOCUM: Yeah, 100%. You always talk about (indiscernible) the better. At the same time, I kind of pulled my drive on the 17th, hit a good one off the 18th, which is important. Hit a great 5-iron in there and capped it off with a putt.  
 So, yeah, that always makes you feel better. Like I said, just going forward to tomorrow, just got a birdie streak of one going. Look to make some more.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT