BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 13, 2009
Heath Slocum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   HEATH SLOCUM: It wasn't as good as last week, but I'm going to use next week, put my feet up, get a little work in and see if I can't make some of those in the TOUR Championship.

 Q. Will you call Stewart and stay invite me down so I can come play a couple times during that week?
 HEATH SLOCUM: I don't know, we'll see how much playing I do. I'm just going to relax and play golf and kind of enjoy myself. Like I said, just maybe at the very end of the week try to gear up for the TOUR Championship.

 Q. You'll put the clubs away for the next few days?
 HEATH SLOCUM: Next few days, yeah, yeah. I'm just going to go relax and be with my family. 

 Q. Would you be ready if the TOUR Championship were next week, and if not, what would you do to get ready?
 HEATH SLOCUM: I've got a little bit of work to do with my game, mentally and physically just need some rest. And what I'll do is I'll get some rest. That's what I'll do to prepare. Starting late next week, I'll start getting some more work in, just try to gear up for a run at the TOUR Championship. 

 Q. This is your first TOUR Championship, correct?
 HEATH SLOCUM: This is my second.

 Q. Well, given that, you know, what advantage will you have due to the fact that you're in Alpharetta. It's the other side of town, but what do you know about the course, and have you played it recently? 
 HEATH SLOCUM: Well, the last time I played was last year, so I haven't played the course yet. I don't know exactly what to expect. I know the layout. I know driving straight is a premium, and hitting the greens is going to be a premium. Obviously for me it's going to be a matter of driving straight and hitting quality irons, but I'm going to need to make some putts, just like always.

 Q. Will you be able to sneak out there? 
 HEATH SLOCUM: I might sneak out there and try to play. I know it's just going to be really busy Monday through Wednesday. We've got plenty of people coming in town, plenty of family. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT