WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2014
Heath Slocum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   A jam packed leaderboard, really anything can happen tomorrow.  
HEATH SLOCUM:   Absolutely.   Obviously I didn't play as well as I did the first two days.   Played solid today.   Obviously you want to win the tournament on Saturday as well.   Trying to keep myself in good position.   
Again, just kind of create some momentum going into Sunday.   I like my position and I think it's going to take a really good one tomorrow.   They're so jam packed up top.   I feel like I'm more than capable.  
   
 Q.   Do you scoreboard watch at this point because there's so many guys right there?  
HEATH SLOCUM:   I mean not so much.   There's enough scoreboards out here that you can't help it.   You see them, whatever.   I mean I don't look away from them or anything but I don't hawk them out.   I kind of know and I'll always, you know, for sure ask my caddy when certain situations if I need to know.   So, I'm aware.   I'm just not, you know, holding on to them too tightly.  
   
 Q.   15, 16, 17, late on the back-9, those are getable holes.  
HEATH SLOCUM:   Absolutely.   I had a really good yardage on 15 and the par 5.   I kind of skinned my 5-wood.   Had a little tough up and down and didn't do it.   
You can actually -- I mean you can make some birdies and par is a good score on a couple of those holes as well if you miss the fairway.   Look, it's going to be -- with this venue, it's going to be an exciting finish tomorrow.   The course is in perfect shape.   Good weather.   The crowds have been wonderful.   Yeah, I look for really good golf tomorrow and I look for an exciting finish.  
   
 Q.   What was it like playing with Scott today, talked about after his round he was looking forward to play with you, you two are friends.  
HEATH SLOCUM:   We were encouraging each other.   He hit a couple close kind of early and didn't make them.   I finally made one.   Let me open this gate, come on.   We kind went on a little run for a bit it and, yeah, it's always fun playing with guys that you really get along with and enjoy and Scott and I have kind of hit it off this past year.   It was a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   Does that friendship get cutoff when you get closer and closer to the 18th hole?  
HEATH SLOCUM:   I think the unique thing about golf -- I vividly remember in '09 of a putt to possibly win Barclays and playing with Stricker.   He walks behind me and kind of hits me and says, "Knock it in."  
That's how it is out here.   We're all pulling for each other.   Obviously you want to beat them and -- but, again, you want to beat them with your best and that's what's unique with our sport and love it.  
   
 Q.   Is it easier to sleep when you're chasing someone or being chased?  
HEATH SLOCUM:   You know what?   I've always been the fact if I had to lead I mean I'm pretty comfortable because I feel if you got the lead and shoot the best score you cannot lose.   Saying that, I think that having a chance to win a golf tournament, whether you have the lead or one shot or 2 shots back, it's all the same, in my opinion.   It's going to be -- you're going to be thinking about it tonight, there's no way.   I'm about to go pick my family up from the airport and enjoy my night and morning with these late tee times.   I'm looking forward to a fresh start tomorrow and a good tournament.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT