TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2008
Heath Slocum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Heath Slocum, thanks for joining us for a few minutes here at the Travelers Championship. Great playing today, 6-under, Par 64. Just a few comments on the round as you prepare to head into tomorrow's final round.
 HEATH SLOCUM: You know, today was a good day. I made a couple putts early on 1 and 2 to get off to a really good start. And it was -- a couple wayward shots on the front nine, made some bogeys. But I just kept telling myself just keep hitting it. I was putting it really well. And birdied 8 and 9 and 10, so that kind of jump started me again. And just rolled along. Birdied 13 and that was it isn't it? I'm not even sure.
 THE MODERATOR: Birdies? 14.
 HEATH SLOCUM: Oh, yeah, birdied 14 too. Made a good putt there. Hit a good shot. 
 It was just a good day. I mean, I hit the ball better today than I have in the last two days, and I putted it better today. So it was all around good day. And on a day when scores were really low, it's nice to shoot a low one and keep myself in the tournament.
 THE MODERATOR: I guess you have heard that the tee time has been moved up to 7:30 from 9:30, threesomes. Does that change your approach at all when they move it up? 
 HEATH SLOCUM: Not really. I mean, it's the same thing. Makes my wake-up call a little bit earlier, but I have a six-month-old so I'll be up.
 THE MODERATOR: We'll take a few questions from you guys.

 Q. Did you have a sense that, you know, the course was again being very benign today like it has been the last couple days?
 HEATH SLOCUM: Only when I saw the scores early, and I saw that, you know, there were some -- I think D. J. Trahan and Chad both shot 8 is that right?

 Q. Yeah. 
 HEATH SLOCUM: And I didn't even know that 'til I was walking to the putting green. Other than that, I was like, woe, obviously I think the course going to, you know, play about the same, it's going to yield some good scores. 
 I think with just the rain they've had, just keeping the greens relatively soft. Other than that, the course is in magnificent shape, and we've had really good weather. So I knew the scores were going to be low. I assume they'll be the same tomorrow.

 Q. Stewart just hit into it the water at 16 when means you got a pretty good chance of going into tomorrow as the leader. When was the last time that happened for you, and how do you feel like you've been playing the last three rounds?
 HEATH SLOCUM: I don't even know the last time I went into the lead. I mean, had the lead going into the last round. It's been awhile. Been around the lead a few times, but it's been awhile. 
 I mean, same old thing. I'm going have to shoot a good round tomorrow. I mean, obviously, with all the people back there and behind me and the scores are going to be so low it doesn't change anything. 
 I'm going to go out, again, you know it's the same old thing, play your own game. But I feel like if I do that tomorrow, if I just stick with what we've been doing, don't focus on anybody other than the golf course, I mean, and just play golf and just see what happens at the end, that's really all I can do . It would be nice to have the lead. But if I don't, I'll deal with it exactly the same way.

 Q. Is this tournament, the way it's played out over the first three rounds has this been the exception rather the norm on The Tour where you don't really have the separation between the leaders. It looked like the entire pack is right on top of each other. 
 HEATH SLOCUM: That's actually nice. We've had some events I know here of late, it's been so hard. The scores have been higher than they have in the past. It seems anyway. 
 The wind's been blowing, it doesn't let everybody kind of group together. But, I mean, I think this will be fun for the fans out there tomorrow, for the guys playing, for the TV audience. I think it will be a shootout. And seems like we haven't had a ton of those this year but it ought to be fun.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 HEATH SLOCUM: There's no doubt about it. I was 9-over par through 26 holes I think at The Open, and I was playing well going in. I knew I was. I just kind of was getting in my own way. I was either trying too hard or just letting little shots slip here and there. 
 Finally, I had a little talk to myself going into the back nine and just said, look, I mean, you just need to just play golf. Just go enjoy yourself, and, you know, just either quit, not trying too hard, but I think -- I don't know if I was putting too much pressure or just -- cause I knew I was playing well, just letting it happen. And I played the back nine on Friday well. I had a decent round on Saturday, and I was just paying for a couple shots here and there. But it's a difficult course. 
 On Sunday I just had everything go my way and made some putts that I hadn't made. And definitely the putter has carried over to this week. I'm going to probably have to lean to it tomorrow hard. You know, if I'm going to think about winning this golf tournament.

 Q. We notice you hit 10 out of 18 greens yesterday, 16 out of 18 today. Did you make any adjustments, or was that a factor of the wind?
 HEATH SLOCUM: To be honest, Friday I wasn't really comfortable for whatever reason. I had been hitting so it beautifully, just something felt off. Not bad off but just a little bit. And after Number 7 today, I kind of felt a little something was just like all right, maybe I could just feel the bad swing. And so, yeah, I made a little adjustment going into there. And I don't know if I missed one coming in but I hit it much, much better. And --

 Q. Actually it was 16 maybe. 
 HEATH SLOCUM: Did I miss 16? 

 Q. No, you didn't. You were nine for nine on the back. 
 HEATH SLOCUM: Yeah, I hit it better coming in. A lot better. 
 I hit it four or five feet to 8 and I was hanging on the lip on 9. All nine on the back. So I hit I much better. I'm going to need that tomorrow as well.

 Q. If you don't mind just running through your birdies and just giving us the clubs and a little description?
 HEATH SLOCUM: I hit driver 9-iron into 1, made about a 16-footer maybe. And, 2, hit 3-wood sand wedge, made about a 15-footer. On 6, driver 3-wood, hit about 40 yards and had a bad shot there to like 20 feet and made that. Then 8, like I said, I hit to about six feet with a 6-iron. And 9, a 3-wood wedge hanging on the lip. 10, I hit driver 8-iron to about five feet and made it. 13, I hit driver 3-wood and right next to the green, hit a chip shot; not a very good one but I made about a seven-foot curler there. And on 14 I hit driver 8-iron to about 3 feet. So those were the birdies. 
 THE MODERATOR: Okay. Heath, thanks so much for coming in and best of luck tomorrow.
 HEATH SLOCUM: Appreciate it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT