AT&T CLASSIC
May 17, 2008
Heath Slocum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Three under here in your new adopted hometown?
 HEATH SLOCUM: I played well today. I got off to an excellent start. I had a couple 3-putts early in the round. Speed though greens wasn't great. I continue to hit it well and made a few putts coming in and saved a few pars.

 Q. There are some really bright figures out here on the PGA Tour; you played with one of them today, Camilo Villegas. How does that suit your game? A lot of people yelling at Camilo every hole. 
 HEATH SLOCUM: It's interesting. They love him. The first time I was out with Camilo. Obviously, very talented. It's a lot of fun. The fans really love him and he is great to play with. 

 Q. Nobody down shifted and took off from the rest of the field today. You are 10-under par. How do you like your chances going into tomorrow?
 HEATH SLOCUM: I've got to play really, really well to even have a chance to win the golf tournament. I've got to continue to hit my irons well. I'll try to get that all figured on the a come out tomorrow swinging.

 Q. You kind of settled in and started throwing strikes. Talk about your ball striking?
 HEATH SLOCUM: I hit it well again today. I had a couple miscues early in the day and I kind of hit a fat wedge on 13 out of that dead into the green shot. For the most part I hit it solid. I am happy with my ball striking and driving it well, just a matter of getting the speed of the greens. 
 Seems like I am a little firm or a little too soft. So other than that if I can get everything lined up maybe I can make a charge for tomorrow.

 Q. You're playing early tomorrow to beat the weather, so what do you expect the greens to be like in the morning? Is it going to change your approach? Are you going to show up early to get up to speed?
 HEATH SLOCUM: No. Same routine, same everything. Hopefully a night sleep on it will fix the problem.

 Q. Tell me about the round. Tell me about some highlights?
 HEATH SLOCUM: Again, it was just got off the a slow start. Had a couple 3-putts, settled down to some good approach shots, got a couple to fall. Made some good saves. Then I got a little about the bit of my confidence back on the putter. It was just one of the days where I tried to just minimize mistakes, take advantage of a few opportunities and today I did. 
 I'm going have to probably play perfect golf tomorrow to have a chance to win this golf tournament.

 Q. Do you feel with you this year has been a steady progress as far as how well you played and seems like the last weeks you've really come on; had a good showing at Wachovia; played well the first few rounds of The Players last week and obviously this week playing very well. 
 HEATH SLOCUM: It is. It's starting to come around. I mean I had such a consistent year last year. A lot of it was due to the putter. This year, slow start, I just wasn't making any putts, wasn't hitting it real close either. Everything seems to be getting a little tighter. Making a few more putts and definitely hitting the ball closer to the hole. As you all know that helps. 
 Hopefully, I've got some big events coming up and got a big round tomorrow right ahead of me. So, you know, I'm looking forward and hopefully the game stays right where it's at and the putts drop.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT