THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2008
Heath Slocum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What was the key? What happened? 
 HEATH SLOCUM: I hit it about as solid as I've hit it in the last -- been a while this year. And you have to hit it solid out at this golf course. I just didn't make any mistakes, either. Kept it in the fairway, hit it on the right part of the green for the most part. 18 I kind of left myself a little bit and hit a bad first putt, not a good second putt. But I played solid really, kept the ball in front of me.

 Q. It's not about luck, it's about how penal the bad shots really are out here. 
 HEATH SLOCUM: There's no doubt about it. You can miss your target, get a little too aggressive and miss your target by just a few feet, and then you're trying to make bogey. For the most part today I didn't. I missed the first green and actually made a good up-and-down, but other than that, I just hit a lot of greens. 
 I played, I don't want to say smart, but I did. I just played pretty conservative when I had to, just center of the greens on longer holes, took advantage of a few wedges early, and after that tried to make some -- just some two-putts.

 Q. The way the golf course is set up and I guess how everybody plays this golf course, you really have to pick your spots, don't you?
 HEATH SLOCUM: I do, especially. I didn't go at a par-5 today, so yeah, I've got to lay it up at the right spot and try to just -- when I can be aggressive with a wedge, be aggressive. 
 And then today on 11 and 12, I had wedges. If you mis-hit it any or get a little too aggressive you're going to make bogey, so I was playing a little conservative, didn't hit the best of shots but at least had an opportunity to make a putt. Didn't make either one but wasn't disappointed walking off to the next. Par is a good score here. This course is tough.

 Q. If I remember the last time there was a good round was at Augusta. Have you played well since then? 
 HEATH SLOCUM: I played well the last round. I didn't necessarily hit it my best, but I played well. I played well last week, but I hit it more solid today, if that makes sense. I actually hit more solid shots. Last week they might have been on line, but I was still -- just wasn't clicking all the way. Today I hit a lot more solid golf shots. If the putter was really hot, I could have shot a really good round. But other than that, it was just a good, solid round.

 Q. The conditions tough, it's obviously warm and the wind is coming up. Are the guys in the afternoon going to have a little more problems? 
 HEATH SLOCUM: Well, the wind is going to always make it a little tougher, there's no doubt about it. A good shot could turn into a marginal shot. 
 I would expect tomorrow, I think the wind is supposed to blow tomorrow afternoon, so I'll have to deal with that. It's just part of it. Again, you're going to have to take your chances or take your opportunities when you get them and hopefully make a bunch of putts. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT