WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 4, 2008
Heath Slocum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. That's your best finish, isn't it, this year on the PGA TOUR?
 HEATH SLOCUM: It is, Top 10, first event of the year, and this is the best I've done this year. I was looking for a little better, but I'll take what I can get right now. 
 Like you said, it's just a good confidence boost going in. I've got a big stretch coming up, so it always helps to play well the first week out before a big stretch.

 Q. Those are positives that you can take away with you there. Is there anything that particularly pleased you about your game this week? 
 HEATH SLOCUM: Well, I'd like to say my putting, but that's -- I just couldn't make a putt today. I still rolled it very well. It just seems like I was just off either with the line or with the speed just a fraction today. 
 But I've got a little work to do with the driver. I kind of missed more fairways than I need to out here. That's kind of my bread and butter. 
 Other than that, it was a solid week. I was just glad that I hung in there. For a while I was just getting killed early. Anthony was making all the birdies, all the guys were making birdies in front, and I'm just slowing along with pars and throwing in a bogey here or there. 
 But I'm looking forward to next week.

 Q. You had a front row seat of a master class there from Anthony Kim. You said it was the first time that you've played with him. Did you find that -- were you trying not to see what he was up to, or was that impossible?
 HEATH SLOCUM: After a while I was just hoping to get caught up in the tailwind and he'd just drag me along, and maybe I could get some birdies coming in. You know, after the first three or four holes, obviously it was going to be very, very difficult for me to win the golf tournament. So at that point I'm just looking to try to maybe finish second, and I just never could get anything going. 
 Anthony played great. It was very impressive. From the getgo, he put his foot on the gas and he never let off. That was very, very impressive.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT