MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2008
Heath Slocum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about your round.  
 HEATH SLOCUM: I played well. I wasn't sure what to expect. We played three practice rounds and it was really soft and long. And it firmed up a little bit. Couple tees were moved up which helped me considerably.   
 But I hit the ball well. I made a couple really key putts today. Over 10 feet for birdie. Two, 3-putts on the card, but one of them I -- well both of them I just misjudged the speed and didn't hit very good second putts either. Actually I hit a decent second putt on the last, but just misread it a bit.   
  
  Q. Being a first year Masters player what was it to look up and see yourself at 3-under par leading the Tournament at that time?  
 HEATH SLOCUM: Yeah, I saw that, but I did know it was Thursday. So it's a long way to go. But I was very pleased with getting off to a good start, that's what I wanted to do. And I certainly didn't take advantage of the back nine a little bit. I think just the one birdie, two bogeys.   
 So again I feel like it was a good opening rounds for me, I played solid and look to build on it the rest of the week.  
  
  Q. How is the course playing out there?  
 HEATH SLOCUM: It's good. Greens were even a bit faster than they were the practice rounds. So it's an adjustment for just seeing it for the first time. But it's firming up a little bit. Greens are definitely. So I think it played like a fair, hard golf course today.   
  
  Q. There's been a decent amount of attention between you and Bubba and Boo. Is that a distraction or has that made things a little more fun to relive that?  
 HEATH SLOCUM: It's been fun. Whenever you get me and Bubba and Boo, we're from the same high school, making a debut here, as a rookies, so.   
 But we have taken care of it early. All the attention was done and it was well done here. Everything was done early. So we could concentrate on golf. It hasn't really been a distraction at all.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT