WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 3, 2007
Heath Slocum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   Q.  Off to a good start, 4-under.  Talk about your day. 
 HEATH SLOCUM:  I played really solid.  I hit a lot of quality drives, which you have to do out here.  The ones I missed, mostly the first cut, correct side, and the greens I missed, I kept missing on the right side. 
 Other than that, I hit a lot of good iron shots.  I putted well, I made a lot of two-putt par saves and made some birdies coming in, so it's nice. 

 Q.  Talk about this golf course.  Talking to other players, not only is it a quality golf course, but you have to think your way around the golf course.  Is that the case? 
 HEATH SLOCUM:  Yeah, it's one of my favorites.  It's playing firm, it's playing fast.  You have to curve it in some of these fairways.  You have to, kind of like at Hilton Head, decide which side of the fairway you want to attack a pin, and you can't always fly right at it, aim at it.  You have to use some of the contours sometimes and play to the safe side so you get yourself a putt that you're just not completely defenseless or playing defense on. 
 I love the golf course.  I think it's playing great, so hopefully the weather kind of holds off or doesn't dump too much. 

 Q.  You had a pretty good chance to win in Tampa.  Obviously your game is at a good level coming off the Florida Swing.  Just talk about the state of your game overall. 
 HEATH SLOCUM:  It's actually getting a lot better.  After Tampa, I kind of hit a couple -- had three weeks where I just made a couple cuts and then I missed a cut and just some hard work, got some hard work in this week and my coach was in town, Mark Blackburn, and it's starting to come together.  I'm actually putting it like I did early in the year, so that's a huge bonus. 

 Q.  And as a guy that doesn't necessarily overpower a golf course, you kind of have to be firing on all cylinders to really be in contention or in the Top 5 or have a chance to win do you think? 
 HEATH SLOCUM:  Yeah, I think that's kind of the deal out here.  There's a lot of us that really have to fire on all cylinders.  But yeah, I think this golf course is going to allow me to use some of my precision versus some of the heavy hitters. 
 If I'm putting well, I feel like I can win on any course at any time, and driving it straight.  I'm actually hitting my driver good, irons are solid, and putter feels good. 

 Q.  So it's a pretty fair golf course?  It is fairly long, but we've had winners like David Toms and winners like Vijay, so anybody can win out here? 
 HEATH SLOCUM:  Exactly.  That's what it takes.  I love the golf courses that you have to think.  I mean, long hitters, I mean, no disadvantage because if they want to hit 3-wood they can.  It's just about precision and thinking their way around the golf course. 
 These are the courses I love.  These are the tournaments -- they do such a good job here at Wachovia, and I'm just looking forward to the next three days. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT