PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2005
Heath Slocum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








HEATH SLOCUM:  Played pretty solid today.  Drove it well.  Got off to kind of a slow start, but other than that, I played really solid.  Made some birdies on the front nine just to get it back to even, which made me feel a little bitter.  Drove it well.  Birdied 17, 16, good save for par on 17, and birdied 18.

18 I didn't hit the best drive but it stayed in the fairway.  Hit a really good pitch to three feet, made that.

First hole, I parred 1.  2, I hit a shot left into the trees and punched out, made bogey.  3, I drove it right off the tee, laid up and 3 putted from there.  Hit a 5 iron into 4 and made birdie.  5, I made a good, solid par.  I think 6 I parred.  Birdieing 7 and 8 kind of got me back rolling again.  I parred 9.

Just played on the back, just played really solid, just hit a lot of greens, a lot of fairways.  Made a good putt on 16 from just probably 12, 15 feet behind the hole.  I made a good save, like I said on 17, and then 18, a birdie.

I've been playing well coming in so I was kind of looking forward to this week.  Yeah, I have not played in that many majors.  I've actually had a few good rounds in the PGA, but it feels real good just to get off to a good start and hopefully play well all the way through the whole week.

The last couple of days in the practice rounds played extremely long for me.  I don't hit it that far.  With the warm weather, it dried out a little bit.  It definitely was more accessible for me distance wise, and as long as I hit my driver well, I think I can score out here.  You know, I mean, it's just a long hole but it's one of those holes where, you know, if no one can get to it, I'm in favor, because I can't get to it in two, so I just assume I've got a three shot hole.  In that situation, I think it maybe kind of favors me.  I'm used to laying up on a lot of par 5s and play three shot holes.

It still is a demanding driving hole.  You know you have to hit the fairway.  Today I actually hit the fairway, caught a decent lie and knocked it on the green and knocked it up and down.  I'm sure there's somebody that can under the right conditions, but overall, the field as a whole is not going to get there in two.  If you do miss the green going for it in two, it's pretty penalizing.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT