WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 6, 2004
Heath Slocum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHRIS REIMER:  Heath, 5-under 67.  We just had Mike Weir in here, one of the clubhouse leaders, as well.  He had nine birdies and a much different round than yours, five birdies, no bogeys.  Talk about your consistent play and what holes you chose to take chances on.
HEATH SLOCUM:  The day pretty much started with a round, for the reason is, I drove it great today.  I think I missed two fairways, both of them first cut, and got pretty decent lies there, hit my irons solid.  Short-side myself a couple of times and made some good up-and-downs.  Other than that, it was not boring golf, but I played really solid and hit it where I wanted to hit it.
CHRIS REIMER:  Low scores today.  During your practice round, did you see 5-under 67, did you see it out there?
HEATH SLOCUM:  My practice round on Tuesday, I don't think I could have shot under par on Tuesday.  It played tough, wet and windy, but the course firmed up a little bit, made it not quite play as long, had really no wind this morning, and the greens were perfect.
Q.  You're up there with big names on the board, as well.  If you did win this tournament, what would it do for your career?
HEATH SLOCUM:  It would be great.  I mean, I won Tucson earlier this year, and I look at it really honestly as a tournament.  I really try to play the course instead of the field, so I mean -- but yes, I definitely I think a win is a win.  I would love to win here, because they do such a good job at this tournament, on a great golf course, and it is a good field.  It would be a little more for my confidence maybe, but other than that, you know, I just look at a tournament as any win would be good.
Q.  What do you think a couple of the hardest holes are out there and maybe holes that may make a difference in the next three days?
HEATH SLOCUM:  Well, I think obviously 9 and 18 are really just good holes.  They are hard.  You have to hit quality golf shots on them.  I definitely think No. 7, the par 3, it's just such a long hole and you're hitting in there with a wood, I did today.

There are holes like holes like 8 and 9 -- or 7 and 8, or maybe 6, the par 3, that's a tough one, but holes like 7 and 8 and like -- maybe not 15, some of the Par 5s that you can reach, you have to take advantage of when you have the opportunity.  Other than that, there's just a lot of really good holes and ones that are very hard.
CHRIS REIMER:  Real quickly, go through your birdies and club selection.
HEATH SLOCUM:  Birdied 2, 7-iron to eight feet, made that.

7, hit driver, 3-wood, 2-putted about 45 feet.

10, driver, 4-iron, sand wedge, maybe to about 5 feet, made it.

15, hit driver in the rough, 6-iron, 9-iron over the green and I chipped in for birdie there.

17, I hit 4-iron to about 15 feet behind the hole and made it.
CHRIS REIMER:  Good luck tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT