BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 16, 2002
Heath Slocum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you for joining us.  Great round today.  8-under par.  Congratulations. 
Q.  Can you talk about your emotions coming into this week, finally being out here, all that kind of good stuff?
HEATH SLOCUM: Well, I was really looking forward to it.  I didn't play really well last week.  I just -- I was looking forward to coming out here and getting a chance to hopefully shoot some really good scores. 
I'm just starting to putt a little better the final round, I missed the cut last week.  And I knew that I needed to work on my putting.  I came out on the greens and really got my ball rolling the way I like.  And I was just really trying to come out and hopefully shoot some good scores.

Q.  Are you comfortable with the demands of this tournament?  I'm sure you know the history, you've got to come out here and basically do what you did today five straight days to contend.  Do you like that kind of demands, is that okay?
HEATH SLOCUM: Yeah, I really don't mind it at all.  Either way, if you're playing a U.S. Open or anywhere else, I think the course will dictate some conditions, but will dictate what kind of scores to shoot. 
With the conditions out here, it being relatively calm, you can really shoot some low scores.  So I think that especially with the attitude knowing you've got to do it, a lot of times it makes it easier.



Q.  Coming into the year, did you -- how did you feel about starting on the Tour?  Was there any intimidation at all or feeling that, well, I've got to really prove myself right away?
HEATH SLOCUM: No, not at all, because with the battle field last year, I got to play eight events last year, so I got a pretty good taste of it last year.  And I really, truly believe that my game is very well suited for the PGA TOUR. So I mostly put the pressure on myself, if there's any pressure, just for my standards, because I think all these guys out here have a pretty high standard. 
And other than that you just go play golf, and if you play well that week, there's no better place to play well than on a PGA TOUR.

Q.  Was there a big difference coming out this year, than when you got the battlefield promotion last year and started?  Did you notice a big difference in your comfort zone and how you felt about being out here?
HEATH SLOCUM: Yeah, I was very comfortable, from the very first week.  Just last week I just didn't have my game all together, and I knew it was really close .So I was just patient and came here this week and worked really hard and just played a really good first round.  I'm looking forward to playing tomorrow and keeping it going.

Q.  Anything spectacular happen out there for you today?
HEATH SLOCUM: The one on 14, which was my fifth hole today ,I shot eagle, which got me going.  I hit some decent shots, but didn't make any putts, but when I holed that, I started getting better.  And I made some good putts, and hit a good bunker shots on the 9th hole, which was 18.  It really should have stayed in for eagle, but I tapped in for birdie.  And I made some really good putts coming in.

Q.  On the eagle, what was the yardage?
HEATH SLOCUM: My bunker shot? 

Q.  The first one, you said you holed out?
HEATH SLOCUM: I holed the bunker shot from the green-side.  It wasn't a bunker shot, it was really a chip.  It was a 15-foot chip, but that really got me going.

Q.  What do you think with your game and the strength out here?
HEATH SLOCUM: I think I'm going to drive it really straight and hit a lot of fairways.  As long as I hit it, hit my irons well, and just keep it around the greens or around the hole, I feel like I can make quite a few putts.  Usually when I get going good with my putter, it stays pretty good for a while.  I feel like I'm a good putter and a good driver of the ball.  So hopefully out here those add up to good scores.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Heath, for joining us, and play well the rest of the year. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT