VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 9, 2014
Dawie Van Der Walt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on 1‑under par around here in blustery conditions?   
DAWIE VAN DER WALT:   I mean, this course, playing in this wind, can be easy if the wind isn't blowing and if the wind blows like this, it can be tough.   After the‑‑ if you play in the first five holes under par, you're looking at about 3‑under par, and I made a double‑bogey on 5.   So after that, I would have taken anything under par.  
   
 Q.   Which means it was a terrific recovery in the end to shoot a score like this.   
DAWIE VAN DER WALT:     I played nicely, nothing spectacular, kept the ball in play, birdied the par 5s.   Would have liked to birdie the last hole.   If you hit a good shot, you can hit it on the green.   In this wind‑‑ I hit a shot in 16, wasn't a good shot and it just went straight right.   You don't feel the wind between all these palm trees or bushes or whatever you call it, banana trees, but once the ball gets above it, anything can happen.   You have to keep it on the ground and keep the ball in front of you.  
   
 Q.   Is it exciting to play an event like the Volvo Champions to start the year, elite field, only 36 players?   
DAWIE VAN DER WALT:     Of course it is.   There's no cut, so it's just kind of, if you're taking some time off to get yourself back into things with not a lot of pressure to make the cut, first of all, obviously it's a big tournament and you want to be on top of your game but starting in this‑‑ there's only 36 guys.   If you want to win this, you only have to beat 35 of them.   It's a lot easier than beating 156.   
I had a little hiccup in the middle of the year, I had a little injury that I thought really held me back, so I've only started to play well the last four weeks or so, and then Christmas‑‑ well, played better.   
So I'm looking forward to this year.   I learned a lot last year, winning, how to handle it.   It has not come naturally.   It's something I feel like you have to learn and get used to.   So hopefully I've learned from my mistakes and I'll do better this year.   
   
 Q.   It's quite something to be called a multiple champion, anyway, on The European Tour and now presumably there are different goals, different aims?   
DAWIE VAN DER WALT:     That's right.   I'm getting into bigger events now, and one of my goals this week is just to play well and see where I finish.   I don't have too many expectations.   I just want to take it one week at time a time and play well and see how I do.   Last year after being injured and playing so bad, it just sucks playing bad.   Even if I play well, I can sleep with that.   But when you play bad, it makes it a lot harder.   
   
 Q.   Back to today.   This score is going to stand the test of time, isn't it?   
DAWIE VAN DER WALT:     What's leading, a couple under probably?   The last few holes coming in, I suppose there's a par 5 that's downwind, is it 13 or 14, you can make a birdie or maybe eagle there if you hit a good tee shot.   17 is playing short, downwind and 18, too.   I think you can see some guys finishing strong here.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT