PAC-12 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 2, 2017
JR Payne
Haley Smith
Ariana Freeman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
WSU - 79, Colorado - 78   
JR PAYNE: I'm here supporting our team in the Pac-12 Women's Basketball Tournament.  I say this every time, and I mean it with all my heart every time, I'm unbelievably proud of our team.  I'm proud to be their coach, I'm proud to be a Buffalo.   
Our kids played their hearts out.  And that's who we are.  We've been down in games.  We're younger than our opponents, we're smaller than our opponents, but we never stop fighting.  I don't know what else I could ask for as a coach.  To have a group of young women that play their hearts out every night and never give up and continue to fight and continue to scarp.  I'm unbelievably proud to be a Buffalo today.   
 Q.  Coach, walk me through that final play.  What were you trying to draw up there?  
JR PAYNE: We got exactly what we wanted.  We got our best finisher near the basket with a ball and an opportunity to score the ball.  We've said all year long, Ariana makes the toughest shots of any player we've ever coached.  She doesn't always make the easy ones, but she makes the tough ones, and that was a tough one.  But it was a simple up-screen and created an overload two-on-one on the weak side, and we got what we wanted.   
 Q.  Take me through the start of that one, went off on a 17-4 run to start the game.  Where did that intensity come from?  
JR PAYNE: We've been talking about that since we left Pullman last weekend, so I knew we'd come out aggressive.  I knew we'd be really tenacious.  That was the game plan going in, and we executed it perfectly.  We just got in a tough spot with our starting lineup all in foul trouble.  That was hard to overcome.   
 Q.  Haley, you finished with 21 points tonight.  What was allowing you to get the looks that you did?  
HALEY SMITH: I think that since we had just played in Pullman last week, we kind of knew what our looks were going to be.  We were really looking to attack from the corner and have shooter spot up.  I think we executed that really well, and we were able to attack the way we wanted to.  Yeah, kind of our spread motion was look working really well.  And yeah, we were just able to kick it out to shooters and pretty much get whatever we wanted either at the rim or on the three-point line.   
 Q.  Do you think your season will continue after this?  
HALEY SMITH: Absolutely.  I'm certainly hoping so, yeah.   
 Q.  Ari, you had a very good game today.  You were very aggressive.  Talk about what was working for you so well tonight?  
ARIANA FREEMAN: Like Haley said, we just got done playing them, so we knew attacking the baseline was going to be wide open, so I just stuck to the game plan.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Colorado.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT