NHL ALL-STAR GAME
January 24, 2015
Nick Foligno
Ryan Johansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How confident do you feel after that performance by your team?
NICK FOLIGNO:   Confident, not cocky.   We've got a big job to do tomorrow, and I'm really proud of the guys, though, today.   It was a really heck of a win.   You know what, we had a blast.   That sounded pretty good, though, didn't it.   We had a blast.   The guys did awesome.   I wasn't really sure how it was going to go, but we got off to a big lead and they climbed back in those breakaways.   I hate those breakaways, man.   But it was fun, a lot of fun, for sure.

Q.   You seemed to put a lot of thought into your breakaway this evening.   What really went into those three attempts, and then how did you feel when Jake kind of stole your idea? 
RYAN JOHANSEN:   Yeah, it was kind of a no‑brainer for me obviously living here and going through that experience and watching them win the championship.   It was pretty cool.   I had a jersey at home so I figured I'd throw it on and just have some fun with that.   The kid, I thought that would be cool to get Vogter's son out there and give him a memory that he'll look back at and think is pretty cool. 
NICK FOLIGNO:   It'll be the talk of the town at school for sure. 
RYAN JOHANSEN:   Yeah, the third one was just an on‑the‑spot kind of we were talking and just figured we'd try a Flying V there, "Mighty Ducks" old school move, and then with Jake's, what you were saying, yeah, that was awesome.   I think he either brought it up, I should have actually went and grabbed Byfuglien after that and tried to carry him down there.   Unbelievable.   I wish I would have thought‑‑
NICK FOLIGNO:   I would have died to see that.

Q.   Nick, as the All‑Star Game has passed we're seeing more personality from players, we're seeing the players taking ownership of this thing, like if it's going to work you're going to have to let us into your world and do some stuff you wouldn't normally do.   Is that the spirit inside those dressing rooms?
NICK FOLIGNO:   You can see it.   I think you saw it starting with the draft and guys chirping each other and having a good time and little comments that come out.   I think we're trying to make ourselves as much open to the fans as possible because we know how important it is for them to see a different side of us.   The season is so busy and so hard to kind of get yourself out there, but at a time like this when you can really open yourself up, I think it's great for the sport.   The game of hockey is so fun and we have a great time playing it.   I think that's really the message we want to get across in this All‑Star Game.

Q.   Why did you choose to put OV in breakaway and how did you think he did?
NICK FOLIGNO:   You know what, I put him in the breakaway because he's got one of the best personalities in hockey, and you watch him, he's such a great ambassador for the game.   I had a great time watching.   I know he probably wasn't too happy he couldn't flip up the puck a couple times, but he was great anyway.   And then hardest shot, I've stood in front of Alexander Ovechkin's shot before and it's not fun, so I figured he'd be just fine for us, and he did great for us, so really happy to have him on my team. 

Q.   You guys were wearing the chips in the jersey today that kind of tracked every movement, all the speed.   I know the league wants to go down this path hopefully during the regular season and have all of this data, and I'm just wondering what do you think we'll learn about you guys as players if we know exactly where you go, your speed, how it changes?   What are we going to learn there? 
RYAN JOHANSEN:   Well, I think it just kind of shows advantages that players have over others.   You see some of the quickness, whether it's skating or their shot just over other players, plays they make throughout games.   I think that's all you'd see is some of the elite players maybe doing things just at a little quicker speed.   I'm sure there's not a big margin, but the little difference makes a difference on the ice. 

Q.   What did you guys make of the atmosphere tonight?   This is a first for both of you guys.   I'm not sure you knew entirely what to expect.   It was a first for a lot of people here, as well. 
NICK FOLIGNO:   Yeah, you know what, now I wish I was a little more personable.   I was pretty nervous actually today, just being on the ice, and you want to do well in the competitions.   But I thought the fans were great.   Really I thought they really came out and supported us and had a lot of laughs when guys were doing things that were funny.   There's some great plays obviously by some guys tonight.   A standing ovation for Shea Weber was pretty cool when he hammered that puck.   So glad no one had to block that. 
But you know what, it was just great to see the support for hockey and how excited the fans were that hockey was being celebrated in the city.   It's been a great weekend all around. 

Q.   Nick, this event is about fun for the players and you guys have a good time, but when we come into this event, people still talk about Ray Bourque, four‑for‑four, Al Iafrate, and tonight when Shea hits 108 on the gun, does it occur to the players that fans do still come in here expecting to see something that they maybe haven't seen before? 
NICK FOLIGNO:   For sure, and I think that's what we want to deliver.   I was really trying to hit those four for four, but the damned puck.   It's so exciting because you never know what's going to happen.   That's what's so great about the skills competition.   Every player is so talented, you never know what really could go on.   I think that's what makes it so special.   You see Shea Weber and I bet you if he has another crack at it, he might even break what Zdeno Chara has.   It's so cool, that's what's great about this competition is that you see so many different things, and think the fans really enjoy it. 

Q.   I assume that you guys are going to ask Todd Richards to put the Flying V into the Blue Jackets' schematic plans? 
NICK FOLIGNO:   That was Joey's idea.   I loved it. 

Q.   Was it your idea? 
RYAN JOHANSEN:   Yeah, I was just trying to come up with something, and yeah, and then I got a few guys to jump on board and do that.   I wish we could have rehearsed it a couple times and it might have been a little bit smoother. 
NICK FOLIGNO:   We were trying to figure out our roles.   I didn't know if I was Connor Banks or Fulton Reed or Goldberg or‑‑ I didn't really know what I was doing. 
RYAN JOHANSEN:   Yeah, we were just trying to have fun, switch it up, and too bad I didn't hit the net. 
NICK FOLIGNO:   Yeah, by the way. 

Q.   On a serious note, how much do you learn about players and their abilities at an event like this that's not exactly hockey but hockey translatable? 
NICK FOLIGNO:   I think it's more off the ice.   You know, on the ice we're just out there having fun, kind of goofing around and making each other laugh and entertaining the fans and just showing them some cool moves and skills and things we don't normally do on the ice, and the thing for me that I've enjoyed so much so far is off the ice.   It's amazing how similar we all are and how our lifestyles are.   We're not much different from one another.   I've really enjoyed getting to know some of the guys, and Foligs has been around for eight years now, a lot longer than me, and for me I'm just starting to get to know a few of these guys, and it makes these events so much more fun and enjoyable.

Q.   Ryan, how far in advance did the Cole Vogt plan come together?   Was it all day?   Was it just pretty quickly before that?   Was it rehearsed? 
RYAN JOHANSEN:   You know what, I've been thinking about the idea for a couple days, but I was thinking about just grabbing a random kid out of the stands or something like that, but I figured it would be tough or maybe he was nervous or didn't want to do it or something.   I saw Vogter's kid ripping around in the dressing room, and I thought, perfect, he would love to have that opportunity.   So I talked to Mike and we agreed upon it, and he was pumped up to be able to get a chance to do that, and something I think we all really enjoyed. 

Q.   Did anybody help you with these three ideas? 
RYAN JOHANSEN:   Yeah, my buddies actually.   I went to a Buckeyes store today and I was trying to find some helmet I could put on, like a football helmet, but they didn't fit, so they didn't have a big enough size.   My brain must be too big, just a smart kid, you know?   I wanted to get a helmet, too, but none of them would fit me, so I decided to go with the jersey that I had.

Q.   You guys jumped out to a pretty good lead early.   Did you get a glimpse of a happy‑go‑lucky, chatty version of Darryl Sutter? 
NICK FOLIGNO:   Yeah, actually it was great.   Just the first time I ever met him.   He was awesome tonight.   His son actually gave us a pep talk before the game so that was great, and really motivated the guys.   I think that was the real difference maker in why we won tonight for sure.

Q.   Nick, any fallout from the draft last night? 
NICK FOLIGNO:   No, no, everything was good.   Everything was great from the draft actually.   I think getting that win really solidified why we picked the guys we did and the trade we made.   Phil made a real good play at the end to win that fastest skater.   So proud of him, and it was really just proud of all the guys.   That's why we picked them.   We studied hard for about 21 minutes before that draft to make sure we got the right guys.
Q.   And obviously you don't want your team to be too confident going into tomorrow's game.   What's the challenge to you as the captain? 
NICK FOLIGNO:   No, I told the guys, make sure you get your rest tonight and come hydrated and just make sure we're working hard.   That's pretty much what this All‑Star Game is about.   We want to dump pucks, make sure we're working the walls well, and then make sure we get lots of shots on net, so that'll be the message we send tomorrow with Darryl and make sure the guys are ready to go.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT