NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: BROOKLYN
March 17, 2016
Moritz Wagner
Duncan Robinson
Zak Irvin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I was just wondering, how was the trip getting from Dayton to here?  And what time did you get in?  What did you have a chance to do today?  Was it just sleeping and catching up?  
ZAK IRVIN: Yeah, after the game, I think we got to the airport around 12:30.  Then we got in Brooklyn in our hotel room around 4:00.  So it was definitely a long trip for us.  Got a lot of sleep this morning, which was nice.  Got to catch up on some rest, just trying to fight fatigue.   
DUNCAN ROBINSON: Yeah, Zak kind of said it.  We got some sleep this morning, which was good, and now we're ready to go today.  So we're looking forward to it.   
MORITZ WAGNER: Yeah, obviously, a very exciting trip.  Really nothing special to add.   
 Q.  Hi, guys.  Obviously, this is a big rivalry playing Notre Dame.  You guys have a long history.  The programs don't play in football anymore, which I know was a big deal.  Obviously, I know you guys are happy to be here after winning last night, but is there any added juice getting a chance to play a team like Notre Dame on this stage?  
ZAK IRVIN: I think it will be a good game for us.  Definitely happy that we were able to get the win last night.  I just think we play every game with a chip on our shoulder.  I know we're getting ready for the game.  We're just excited for it.   
DUNCAN ROBINSON: Obviously, winning last night was good, but we have a next game mentality.  We're really excited for this opportunity.  Like Zak said, we always play with a chip on our shoulder.   
MORITZ WAGNER: As both said already, very grateful to be in that position, to have that huge challenge in front of us, and very excited to play a great game tomorrow.   
 Q.  For Zak and Duncan, in terms of turning things around in a very short period of time, I mean, you've only -- you have the same amount of time that your opponent does to get ready, but it's a short amount of time and less time than most of the teams that are in the tournament.  How do you feel about dealing with that shortened time line?  
ZAK IRVIN: We do have a quick turnaround.  I think it kind of helped us, though, with the Big Ten Tournament, how we played three games in a row.  That kind of got us ready for the NCAA Tournament.  Tulsa was a great team.  It was a hard fought game.  We were able to win.  And obviously, Notre Dame is really good as well.  So it's going to be really tough for us to learn everything they do.  But at this time, it's more about the players and their place.   
DUNCAN ROBINSON: Playing in that first four game and now this first round of 64 is a unique challenge for sure.  But like Zak said, we had short turnaround before.  We played in Bahamas on a short turnaround and then recently in Indianapolis.  Just got to stay locked in today and tomorrow leading up to the game.   
 Q.  Coach Beilein and Coach Brey spent a lot of time going against one another as Big East coaches.  Have you -- in the one day of preparation that you've had, does it show that he is very familiar with what Notre Dame likes to do?  
ZAK IRVIN: Yeah, with both of them being the Big East, you think Coach B kind of remembers some of the things that Notre Dame does, but that was quite some time ago.  We're just doing as much as we can to just learn about them in this short turnaround.   
DUNCAN ROBINSON: Yeah, like he said, there's definitely some history there, but at the same time, we're also just very focused on ourselves, just trying to improve our own game.  Not just how you stop them, but also how we can be effective on both ends of the floor.   
MORITZ WAGNER: I think there's really a different mindset going into that game, just going out there and competing and giving all you have to win the game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT