NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v MAGIC
May 20, 2010
Paul Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. (INDISCERNIBLE)?   
 PAUL PIERCE: We are just reminded what we did the last time, knowing on days in between, today our focus is going to be on practice so we don't have those mental lapses going into Game 3.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 PAUL PIERCE: Just taking my time, picking my spots, getting to the mid-range. Difficult to finish in the half court when you have Dwight there underneath the paint blocking the shots.  
 I'm trying to find my spot in the middle. My mid-range game, three-point game. I'm trying to work those areas. The guys are doing a good job getting me open.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 PAUL PIERCE: The difference between LeBron and anybody in the league? You are talking about a two-time MVP. He's been on the all-defensive team. Pretty much covers your whole scouting report. (Indiscernible) more so than this series. They have a couple of guys -- they don't have a two-time MVP. Not yet.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 PAUL PIERCE: We feel great. We feel like we've been playing good basketball and we can be better. Trying to win a championship. This is all part of the process. Be humble. Not taking anything for granted. Not take Orlando for granted knowing they beat us here a couple of times during the season. We still have a lot of work to do to finish the series.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 PAUL PIERCE: I mean, (Indiscernible) obviously they're still a good team.   
  
  Q. Did you hear any -- Doc give you any feedback from the post game comments about the fans are not going to let you guys --  
 PAUL PIERCE: Did Doc give me any feedback?   
  
  Q. Yeah.   
 PAUL PIERCE: I haven't gotten any feedback. (Indiscernible).  
  
  Q. What are your thoughts now about the TV remark, was it something off-the-cuff? Have you had time to think about it.   
 PAUL PIERCE: Say that again?   
  
  Q. The remarks you made after the game, was that an off-the-cuff thing? If you had to do it again, would you? Was it not a big deal?   
 PAUL PIERCE: It wasn't a big deal to me. I'm just saying I want us to go home, I want our crowd to be ready, I want us to play our best, and I want to win two games.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 PAUL PIERCE: I don't know. You guys know more than that. Break out the brooms. I'm not going to say that on the tape. That's pretty unprofessional. I was probably talking trash on the court that I wouldn't say here. I definitely wouldn't say that.   
  
  Q. Breaking down the defense, how important is it not letting them get inside and --  
 PAUL PIERCE: I think our defense has been spectacular. That's a big part of the game. Dwight rolling to the basket. Doing a good job pressuring the ball. That's the biggest play in everybody's playbook. When we defend that well, I think we've been doing a good job.   
  
  Q. Is Kevin at this point back from the injury and getting on a roll --  
 PAUL PIERCE: He's moving a lot better. (Indiscernible) getting the lateral movement back. You put him in the situation where he's clogging up the lane (Indiscernible).  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 PAUL PIERCE: Every game is critical. It's critical. If we can go out there and win Game 3, go 3-0 -- the series isn't over until you win four games. Game 3 is an important game for us.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT