NBA FINALS: LAKERS v CELTICS
June 11, 2008
Paul Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Can you talk about coming home to LA? Are there pressures you feel from that, a lot of people you have to see, and how much have you been able to shut that out and just focus on what you're doing?   
 PAUL PIERCE: Well, I'm just approaching these games like any other game, not really spending a lot of time with family, just going to be around my teammates, stay at the hotel, do the things I would normally do if I was somewhere else on the road. I'll have plenty of time to visit with family and friends in the summer, so I'm just approaching these games the same I would as if I were playing anywhere else.  
  
  Q. Apparently a website had you coming out of the hotel. There was a lot of paparazzi around. Does that get to be a little bit of a pain, or is that a new experience for you?  
 PAUL PIERCE: You know, it is what it is. It's the NBA Finals, a lot of publicity around it, nothing you can really do about it. That's about it.   
  
  Q. When you have a shooting night like you did last night, what's your approach to the next game?  
 PAUL PIERCE: Just keep shooting the ball. I thought I had some pretty good looks in Game 3. Really not discouraged at my opportunities. Really didn't see a lot of double teaming. A lot of those looks I got were looks I can make. So just stay positive, and if I get those same looks in Game 4, I'm confident that they'll be in.  
  
  Q. Neither you nor Kevin had a good shooting night, and yet the game comes down to the final minutes anyway. What do you take out of that, and what do you think the Lakers take out of it?  
 PAUL PIERCE: Well, it's hard. Me and Kevin really didn't play well. But then you've got to look at the Lakers' side, Odom and Gasol really don't play well. So you've got to expect me and Kevin to play a lot better in Game 4 as well as Gasol as well as Odom to play a lot better. But I was happy with our defense. I can take that away from Game 3 with the way we defended the ball. We gave up some key offensive rebounds there late in the game. If we can clean those up, we'll be fine. But defensively we had them to 87 points, they shot 43 percent and we'll take that all night.  
  
  Q. Phil Jackson said he thought putting Kobe on you defensively was a big key to the game. Do you agree, and how much different is it for you when he's guarding you?  
 PAUL PIERCE: I don't know. I mean, he guarded me pretty much the fourth quarter when I went off for five points (laughter). It was my best quarter out of the last three, so I don't know. Definitely you've got to respect Kobe what he's done defensively. He's an All-Defensive Team. But I don't think it changes anything that I try to do out there.   
  
  Q. After the game Doc told you guys to get your rest, Phil Jackson said Kevin looked tired. Doc also said that you called a time-out to get a breather. Was it the travel? What was it you guys seemed more fatigued, if I'm wrong, tell me I'm wrong, but than in the other games?  
 PAUL PIERCE: Could be from the travel. But both teams experienced it. We got into -- not too much longer after the Lakers landed, so I really don't want to use that as an excuse. Just didn't play well. That's just the way it is. Just didn't shoot the ball well. I did feel some fatigue there late in the fourth. That's the reason I called a time-out. But both teams probably experienced the same thing, so we can't use that as a reason why we lost.   
  
  Q. Was there a point in time in the last ten years when you've thought about what your legacy will be as a Celtic?  
 PAUL PIERCE: You know, I really don't think too much about that. A lot of things are going on throughout the years, and I guess you don't really get to realize what you've done over your career or what you've done in special moments until it's all said and done and you can look back and say, "wow," that was pretty amazing, or some of the great things you've done over the years. As far as thinking about that, the only thing on my mind right now is just getting another championship to Boston.  
  
  Q. You're probably going to finish in the Top 5 in most statistical categories in Boston. Do you think about what you want it to be?  
 PAUL PIERCE: Well, that's all great with the numbers, but like I said not too long ago, there's only one jersey that's in the rafters out of all the guys up there that didn't win a championship. I don't know if I want my number to go up there if I don't win a championship.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about how your leg is feeling? Did you have to do anything on the plane to kind of keep it from stiffening up? How did you feel last night playing on that leg after not much time to prepare?  
 PAUL PIERCE: I didn't feel too bad. On the plane I iced it. That's about it, kept it in a wrap. But I don't think it had any effect on the way I played in Game 3. It was just a bad shooting night, just get ready to bounce back for Game 4.  
  
  Q. Doc said it's possible Rondo may or may not go tomorrow. How important is he to this team, and if he doesn't play, how do you guys adapt?   
 PAUL PIERCE: Well, guys have to step up. Eddie and Sam are brought to the forefront. Definitely Rondo is a big key to what we try to do out there. He sets the tempo for us offensively and defensively, understands what we try to do at the start of ballgames. So it would definitely be a blow to us if we don't have Rondo out there. But I think we have guys who bring something different to the game that can definitely help us.   
  
  Q. Tony Allen?  
 PAUL PIERCE: I mean, that can be an option. That's up to the coaches. Tony hasn't played a lot in the playoffs to go to him early, but that could be an option we could see. But definitely I know Sam will be ready, Eddie will be ready, and if we need Tony, he'll be ready to step up, also.   
  
  Q. I know you're real comfortable playing out here in LA, coming home in front of a lot of people you know and all. Is it possible you're a little bit too excited, a little bit too -- did you have any more-than-usual nerves coming in, excited that way?   
 PAUL PIERCE: I was a little anxious. I mean, you are in the NBA Finals. But I've been anxious every game, just the anticipation of being out there playing on the biggest stage in all of basketball.   
 Probably a little more anxious than normal being that I'm at home in front of more family and more friends. But got to block that out and go out there and leave it on the court. I've done it in the past; I've been out here and played and played well despite having family and friends, and it's time for me to do it again.  
  
  Q. Considering that this is Doc's first championship as a coach, what have you noticed about him? What has struck you as interesting about how he's been handling this and his relationship with you guys as a team?   
 PAUL PIERCE: I don't know. I haven't put much thought into that. Doc has been the same throughout the whole year, regular season, playoffs. What they do behind the scenes, preparation, or his mood or anything, if there's anything different about him, I haven't noticed. But he's been great for us.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT