NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v CELTICS
May 25, 2008
Paul Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How does an experience like last night, a complete game for you last night, the bench, what they were able to do, how does that give you a little bit more confidence?   
 PAUL PIERCE: I felt like it was coming. You could tell the way the offense was going in Game 1. Game 2 I thought we played well offensively. I think we've just got a good group going right now as far as what the offense is doing. I know we struggled in the first couple rounds, but these first three games of this series, I feel like the offense, shooting 48 percent, moving the ball well, this is the way we like to play.  
  
  Q. When you and Rondo and Perkins (Inaudible).   
 PAUL PIERCE: That means they're playing well. Yesterday those guys stepped up and we made the necessary adjustments for those guys to step up.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible).   
 PAUL PIERCE: Definitely. I mean, when the ball gets to them, the ball is definitely moving, but also, they're making plays, also. They're going to get their opportunities definitely in this series with the way Detroit plays us. These guys have got to step up, and they did more to step up yesterday.  
  
  Q. Do you sense that you're creating some of the same problems for Detroit offensively that you guys have had offensively earlier in the playoffs as far as stagnation, not moving the ball?  
 PAUL PIERCE: What now?   
  
  Q. That you're maybe creating some of the same problems for Detroit with your defense that you guys faced earlier in the playoffs?   
 PAUL PIERCE: Well, that's what we try to do, establish our defense from the jump in every game we try to play. I mean, some games are better than others, but definitely defense is something that we try to do each and every night and make them uncomfortable on their offense. If we continue to do that and shut down some of their main guys, we'll be in good shape.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like you're a little bit lighter today, that the gorilla is off your back?  
 PAUL PIERCE: No, I mean, definitely we got a road win, which is good, but we want to try to get another one. Detroit, they play well in our building, so we can't take this opportunity for granted. We've got to go out there and try to win Game 4.  
  
  Q. How do you fight complacency knowing that you got one in and you don't want to get too fat and happy?  
 PAUL PIERCE: I don't think there is any complacency with this team. We feel like it's good to be up 2-1, but it would be even better going up 3-1. We don't want to come back to Detroit if we can. We have a tremendous opportunity tomorrow, so hopefully guys don't take this opportunity for granted.   
  
  Q. The other guys scored 47 points, Rondo, Perk, Posey, they all played well. How good were they in Game 3?  
 PAUL PIERCE: They were great. These guys were in the spots they needed to be in from the adjustments we made and they made the plays. That's all you can ask from them.  
  
  Q. Talk about what Posey brings to this team.   
 PAUL PIERCE: Definitely. You've got a guy who's very poised under pressure, who's been in the big lights. So you know what to expect out of him. He's tougher on defense, three-point shooter, he's able to make some plays.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT