NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v CELTICS
May 21, 2008
Paul Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PAUL PIERCE: Well, that's what we talked about, playing inside-out. Coach talked about percentage and what we score when we get the ball in the paint compared to when we just set up our outside shots. Yesterday we were able to be aggressive, start our shots inside, and it worked for us all night.

 Q. You know they're going to make some adjustments, obviously. 
 PAUL PIERCE: Oh, you're definitely going to expect Detroit to make some changes. They didn't win 59 games for no reason. We expect them to kind of try to counter some of the things we do, especially in the pick-and-roll. We expect this to be a much tougher game in Game 2. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 PAUL PIERCE: I think we're physically and mentally prepared for it. I think the first two series really helped prepare us for a series like this, knowing how physical Detroit is, how well-prepared they are, how they execute. So the physicality of it I think we'll be fine with it. We've just got to stay hungry and stay aggressive ourselves.

 Q. Do you think the fact that Chauncey hadn't played in a couple weeks and was a little slower and had trouble penetrating, do you expect him to be a little better in that respect the next game?
 PAUL PIERCE: You've got to expect Chauncey to be a better player. I mean, Chauncey is a gamer; he's going to pick up his game and rise to the occasion. He's been there before, so you've got to expect him to get better and better as the series goes along. It's our job to try to control him as much as we can, like we did yesterday.

 Q. What's your secret to the fadeaway shot?
 PAUL PIERCE: I don't know, man, that's something I've been doing for the last maybe six or seven years. It's something you just work on, just to get some space with you on the defender and knock them down.

 Q. Will you talk about the bench for you last night. Garnett goes down and you're up eight and it's 12 at the end of the quarter. Obviously that's what you're looking for. 
 PAUL PIERCE: Oh, definitely. I thought they were huge. It started with Eddie House giving us energy, along with P.J. Brown and Leon. I thought those guys really came in. The defense by James Posey is something we've become accustomed to, so the bench is key for us because with the starters and the guys we have out there, you kind of expect a lot of things that we do out there, but when the bench comes in and gives you positive production, it's really a plus.

 Q. How important was Rajon for you yesterday?
 PAUL PIERCE: Well, Rajon was important to everything we were trying to do yesterday because the key for us is to put pressure on their ball handlers, make it tough on them. We thought we had a lot of success versus Detroit when we did that. So it starts with him, with his quickness, with him turning the ball at the top of the defense. You see them setting up their offense with like 14, 13 on the clock, it makes our job on the back line of the defense a lot easier. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT