NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 18, 2011
Paul Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. A guy like that, proud of you everything that you've accomplished?
 PAUL PIERCE: It great that he's recognized with his accomplishments and what he's done in the NBA. He's left his mark on the game. When stuff like that comes from a great players, it means more than anybody saying anything. 

 Q. You're in Hollywood. If we didn't know you were an All-Star, I swear you would be a movie star. Who is your favorite movie star of all time? 
 PAUL PIERCE: Man, you put me on the spot. There's a few people I really, really like. I really like Denzel. I really love Johnny Depp and Leonardo, too. 

 Q. Favorite basketball documentary movie going up? 
 PAUL PIERCE: A lot of people are sold on Hoosiers. Truthfully my favorite basketball movie was -- inaudible -- basketball. 

 Q. If you put Blake Griffin and Kobe Bryant together, who would win, one-on-one? 
 PAUL PIERCE: Kobe, he's the veteran. He's proven right now. 

 Q. How do you share with fans on social media? Do you do it yourself? 
 PAUL PIERCE: Yeah, I actually do. 

 Q. When you look at the standings and see that you guys are where you want to be --
 PAUL PIERCE: We are not where we want to be. I mean, I know it sounds crazy, still at the top of the east and we have the best record, but I don't think we are near where we want to be. We battled a lot of injury. We battled inconsistent play over the last couple of weeks. We are just fortunate to be in the position that we have. We haven't been healthy all year long. I'm just waiting to see what's going to happen in the next couple of weeks when we get about 95 percent healthy, to see what's really going to happen.

 Q. Are you surprised you've been able to win as often as you have with all of the injuries you guys have had?
 PAUL PIERCE: I'm not surprised the games we have been able to win. I'm surprised we are at the top of the east actually with all of the injuries. 
 Last year this record would not be good enough to be at the top of the least last year. But now unfortunately it is because Miami still isn't getting their thing together, and Chicago, and we have down with injuries. 
 We are happy that we are there but we know we have a long way to go and a lot of room for improvement. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT