NBA FINALS: CELTIC v LAKERS
June 16, 2010
Paul Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Doc just said that Perk is definitely out for tomorrow night's game. How does that impact you guys?   
 PAUL PIERCE: We knew that last night, but hey, it's unfortunate that we lose one of our guys who have been so big for us in the playoffs and in this series, especially with his strength and his lift. But that means other guys got to be ready to step up. We've got Big Baby, we've got Rasheed, and if possible we've got Shelden Williams. We've got guys capable of coming in there. All we ask is one game as hard as you can go for tomorrow. We have guys that can fill in and get the job done.  
  
  Q. Guys have different strengths and weaknesses, Baby can't grow, for instance. He can do other things. But when you have Glen or Sheed in there instead of Perk, how does that change what you and some of the other guys have to do on the floor?  
 PAUL PIERCE: They all bring different things to the game. Obviously Perk brings his toughness on defense and rebounding. Rasheed also does the same but he can do a little bit more scoring in the post. Baby, he's really good at scoring, outside, inside, big banger, rebounding. Just got to take advantage of these guys' strengths and what they bring to the game. They bring a different type of toughness. But hey, you know, these guys are ready. I mean, one game, and they'll be ready.   
  
  Q. When you look at all the adversity you guys have overcome this year, the latest losing Perk, playing .500 basketball for four months, yourself, Kevin, would this be a greater accomplishment, winning this title this year than in 2008?  
 PAUL PIERCE: It would be a great accomplishment. Any time you get a chance to win a championship it's a great accomplishment. I guess you could say especially with the things we've been through with the injuries, par season in the regular season. It would mean a whole lot to us. But you know, we never felt like we were an underdog coming into this. We felt like we were a championship team before the season started, it was just that the season didn't go particularly the way we wanted it to go, but at the end of the day we always felt like we were a championship caliber team. But it would be great if we can get it done tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Is it fair to say, though, that this was a less conventional road, this was a tougher road than '08?   
 PAUL PIERCE: I guess so. You can't say that since we had to go on the road for all of them. We played all the top seeds. We played the top three records in all of basketball. Yeah, it's tough, but winning a championship is tough, so you've got to expect it.   
  
  Q. Since Kevin and Ray came on board, this is the third year, and you won a championship, it's pretty much been the same core intact with Doc and everybody. Is there any sense going into this game playing for a championship but it also might be the last time you're all together as this group?  
 PAUL PIERCE: I haven't thought about that right now. My whole focus is to try to win the championship. No, I really haven't given too much thought to that. Obviously we have some unrestricted free agents in Ray, some decisions by Doc, but I'll probably worry about that on Friday.   
  
  Q. What do you see as the key or keys to tomorrow's game?  
 PAUL PIERCE: We've got to definitely get off to better starts. I think when we get off to good starts, it carries over for the rest of the game. We've got to rebound a lot better. They dominated us on the glass. Also keep our turnovers down. If we can do those things, I think we play our best basketball and we give ourselves a chance at winning.   
  
  Q. You have been very vocal about the fact that you don't see yourself as a complete Celtic unless you win more than one championship. To what extent do you see tomorrow night being, fairly or unfairly, a referendum on you because you're the longest tenured Celtic and you're the one most vocal about winning multiple championships?  
 PAUL PIERCE: Well, I mean, I just love the pressure truthfully, man. I love the fact that I get to play against the Los Angeles Lakers in a Game 7 on the road. I love the fact that if I don't win multiple championships that I probably won't be mentioned amongst the other guys in Celtic history that's done it before. That type of stuff motivates me. That type of stuff, I think, helps me play at my best when I'm put to that type of test. To win another championship would be the best thing that can ever happen.  
 But that's what we play for. That's what motivates me each and every year, and that's what the challenge is for me every time I put on this Celtic uniform. To win one would be great, and I haven't really even thought about the feeling of not being there with the other guys and winning multiple championships, because I feel like we're going to get it done.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT