ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: CLEMSON v VIRGINIA TECH
November 28, 2011
Logan Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Logan. 

Q.   Logan, you talked about the first Clemson game being sort of a watershed moment for you.   You learned a lot about yourself and about how you needed to play.   Could you give me some specifics on what you learned that day and what you've improved on since?
LOGAN THOMAS:   I would say what I learned that day would be don't try and play outside yourself.   You can't be the person that played before you.   You can't be the person you look up to in the pros or whatever.   You just gotta go out there and be yourself.
I kind of recognized that after the game.   And I think it's helped me in the long run just to get by some of the mental stuff I've had to get by.
But as a player, outside of that, outside of that, I'd say that just being more confident and calm and knowing where to go with the football and knowing when to tuck and run when I need to.

Q.   Logan, in that first Clemson game, memory serves, your shoulder was kind of banged up.   Were you kind of hampered from playing your whole game against Clemson because you were maybe favoring that shoulder a little bit?
LOGAN THOMAS:   I would say that I was.   And not because of what I did, but I think Coach O'Cain was afraid to run me as much just because he was afraid to put that shoulder in jeopardy.
But, yeah, it hindered me from throwing the ball deep down field a little bit more, but I can't say that's the excuse of why we lost.   I would say that as a team we didn't play well enough.   I definitely didn't play well enough.   And the next time around I'm thankful we get another shot.

Q.   You came to Tech because they wanted you to play tight end weren't really looking to play quarterback.   How much of an adjustment has it been for you, and how do you think you've handled kind of being the center of attention?
LOGAN THOMAS:   It's been quite an adjustment.   Because I mean, growing up you always pictured yourself as something different.   I pictured myself as a receiver catching a football. 
And so when I got here, just it was shell shock when I found out I was playing quarterback.   I think it was for the best.   And I thoroughly enjoy it now. 
And being the center of attention, it doesn't‑‑ it actually doesn't bother me as much as it could, just because I don't go out in the limelight as much.   If you're in Blacksburg the only time you see me is going to grab something to eat or on campus for my classes.

Q.   Logan, if I could go back to the tight end thing for just a moment.   I think back in the preseason when we were talking about this, you said that you actually had wanted to play tight end and weren't that interested in quarterback.   Could you talk about that for a second?   And am I remembering that correctly, first of all? 
LOGAN THOMAS:   I didn't want to play quarterback just because, like I said, it was something I dreamed grew up catching the football instead of throwing it. 
And it was just kind of‑‑ just because of that I think is the reason that I didn't really want to play quarterback.   I played it in my junior and senior year in high school so I was familiar with the position.   I knew what I was doing. 
And I knew there was a possibility that I could be playing quarterback when I got to college, the way Coach Stinespring just kept hinting at it.   But I didn't want to believe it at that time.   But I guess I was force today believe it the day before the season started my freshman year.

Q.   Clemson beat you guys in Blacksburg.   You're now favored to beat them in this upcoming game.   Does that surprise you at all?
LOGAN THOMAS:   Actually, it surprises me tremendously.   I think Danny said before that they took it to us the first time.   So no matter what, I think they should be the favorites, and granted they should be.   They're a great football team.   They beat us 23‑3.   Beat us by 20 points pretty handily.   And they're a good team as well.   And their record is 9‑3, and obviously they're going to be a tough team to beat.
But I think that they should have the upper hand on us right now from the previous game they had us figured out, and they beat us.

Q.   Logan, have you communicated with Tajh Boyd recently and what do you make of today the All‑ACC Team is going to be announced and I think there's a debate over whether you or Tajh should get it.   How much have you guys kept‑‑ I know you guys are friends.   How much have you talked to him since that first Clemson game and what he's sort of gone through?
LOGAN THOMAS:   I talk to him on and off every now and then.   Hasn't been as much as before we played them, just kind of because we've gotten into the swing of the football season and our focus has been elsewhere.
But I talked to him‑‑ I sent him a text after a couple of the games.   And he's doing well.   He's been playing well.   He's had his ups and downs just as any quarterback has.   But he's still got his head on straight, and he's going to be working hard. 
And as the All‑ACC thing goes, I think we're both deserving.   Obviously Tajh has had a phenomenal year for them, so many passing yards and so many touchdowns.
And, of course, he wants the award for himself.   But if I were to lose out to Tajh, it would be perfectly okay in my book just because he is a great friend and also a great player.

Q.   Immediately after that Clemson game you played a great game against Miami and then you've kind of‑‑ you played really well ever since.   I was wondering what was said to you after the Virginia Tech game; was there any encouragement you got from teammates or coaches that allows you to maintain your confidence?   How were you able to turn things around as quickly as you did?
LOGAN THOMAS:   Coach O'Cain just called me into his office afterwards or on Monday after the game was just like:   Hey, keep your head up.   You're still our quarterback.   We have no doubts in you.   You're going to be a great one. 
And it was definitely good to hear that from my coach.   But I think it was better that all the guys on the team had my back as well.   And nobody was down on me.   Everybody was picking me up saying:   Hey, we got it.   We just gotta take it one game at a time.   And the next week I came out and probably had one of the best games I've had or will have.
So I think it was just a confidence boost just knowing that everybody had my back.
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Logan. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT