SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 24, 2013
Duffy Waldorf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  KELLY ELBIN:   Duffy Waldorf in with a 1‑under par 72 in the second round of the Senior PGA Championship presented by KitchenAid.   He's at 4‑under through 36 holes and at this point one shot out of the lead.   Only 7 of 14 fairways hit today, a little bit different than yesterday.   Looked like you had to sort of scrape it around today.
DUFFY WALDORF:   Yeah, today was definitely a scrapy day.   I thought it was a nice day starting out and then the wind, I mean, I kind of thought I had an idea of the wind was going at the start and then I felt like it just kept shifting around.   It made it very tricky.   It felt very Major Championship like, not knowing which way the wind is blowing makes a huge difference. 
I missed more fairways today, missed more greens.   So I definitely found my share of trouble.   I thought the course played harder today.   I thought the pins were a little tougher too.   I think that made a difference on the scoring. 
But overall, I played a lot of good golf, I just was a little bit off this morning and made six bogeys.   Six bogeys could be a bad thing normally, but at least I backed it up with five birdies.
KELLY ELBIN:   Right.   Could you go through those briefly please.
DUFFY WALDORF:   Oh great, my whole card we're going to go through. 
KELLY ELBIN:   Right.   Exactly.   Starting with the bogey on 3. 
DUFFY WALDORF:   Yeah, bogey on 3.   I didn't hit a very good tee shot there.   The pin was tucked on the right and it was left, I was pin high left, but I had about a 45‑footer and hit it about eight feet by the hole and missed that putt and made a 3‑putt bogey. 
Then number 5 I didn't hit a very good drive, I pulled it ‑‑ or number 4.   Number 4, I didn't hit a very good drive, pulled it in the rough.   Laid it up in the rough.   But I hit a very good approach about 10 feet from the hole and made it for birdie. 
Then number 5, I had a good drive, but pulled my second shot into the left bunker.   Bad place to be.   Hit the bunker shot long and 2‑putted from 30 feet. 
Next hole, I hit a very good 4‑iron, it came up ‑‑ right at the pin‑‑ it came up just a little short about 20 feet short.   Made a nice curling putt for birdie there. 
7, hit a good drive down the left and then approached, I had a sand wedge from about 110 yards and came in just short and right, just off the fringe, but very short putt.   Only about a 15 foot putt, which I made for birdie. 
9, I drove it in the right rough.   This is where I started learning about the rough.   Didn't have a great lie and came up short of the green.   Didn't have too bad a chip, but the wind was really blowing and I chipped it past the hole, it was a very difficult pin and I had a very fast putt, which I missed and made a bogey. 
11, tried to drive the green, with a 3‑wood, didn't hit a very good shot, hit it in the lake.   Hit my third shot about 15 feet and 2‑putted for bogey. 
13, I hit a pretty good shot, but it's a very difficult pin and my ball rolled kind of down the slope and then I had about a, gosh, I had a long putt, it must have been about a 35, 40 foot putt.   But I knocked it right in for birdie. 
Next hole, I drove it in the left rough, not in bad shape, only 118 yards from the pin, but kind of hit a little flier, kind of a juicy one.   I thought it was into the wind and I just hit it too hard.   And the pin was way in the back and I had a very tough chip.   Hit a good chip, but didn't make my par putt.   Made a bogey.   Had about a 15‑footer for par that I missed. 
Par then 17, I hit a good drive down the middle and I had about 240 to the pin, didn't hit a very good shot, but I kind of missed it into the middle of the green and way to the right, but I was on the green.   Then I had a long putt, probably 50 foot putt, which I 2‑putted for birdie. 
And then 18 I missed it to the right in the rough.   You don't get very good lies in the rough out here.   You can write that.   You can quote me on that.   But I still had 212 yards, I had a long ways out of the rough, kind of blind.   And I pulled it into the bunker on the left and had a very difficult bunker shot and actually made a pretty good five.   I was just off the fringe about 30 feet and 2‑putted for a five. 
KELLY ELBIN:   Thank you, sir.   Open it up for questions. 

Q.   Tom Watson saw you on the monitor and said, "Look at skinny Duffy."   Have you gotten in shape?   Have you lost a little weight?   Was that just the TV cameras?   He felt like you looked pretty fit. 
DUFFY WALDORF:   Well, I consider Tom Watson an expert on many things and a fine gentleman and I have to believe what he says.   I am Skinny Duffy, looking fit.   I have been working out.   I have got a lot of body work the last few years.   I felt like it was the way to go with my knee injury.   And it's helped my knee, my back, everything.   And that and my kettle ball workouts and that's what I do and getting healthier all the time.   I'm only 50, I got a long ways to go. 
I am skinnier, too.   I mean, I'm probably 25 pounds lighter too.   If you go by weight.   Some people don't go by weight though.   They just say you're supposed to look fit. 

Q.   Who doesn't go by weight?
DUFFY WALDORF:   How do you measure yourself with other golfers? 
(Laughter.)

Q.   You mentioned that starting, it's starting to feel like a Major.   I think you said on TV it's starting to look, the setup is starting to be like a Major.   Can you just elaborate a little bit on that?
DUFFY WALDORF:   I felt like the pins were close to the edge today.   I mean, they were on some spots that, when I came out in practice it wasn't like I put my little practice spot there where that pin was.   It was like, whoa, I mean, where do they find some of these spots?   And they were closer to edges, they were more on slopes, I thought. 
The wind felt like it was drying the greens out a little bit.   They're still not super firm, but they have that look like, if it continues to stay dry, that they could get firmer and faster. 
I know it's only the second morning.   And definitely that feel when the wind is kind of rustling through the trees and tricky to read, I felt uncomfortable out there.   That's usually what Majors are.   They make you feel uncomfortable. 
KELLY ELBIN:   One question, the rough considerably more challenging today than yesterday or just because you drove it into it a little bit more.
DUFFY WALDORF:   Well, I definitely drove into it more.   I honestly, I think I was only in the rough once yesterday.   I kept driving it in the fairway traps.   The fairway traps in general are better than the rough.   So I much prefer those. 
The lies I had in the rough were pretty difficult.   They're okay for hitting short irons, but once you start getting into past a 7‑iron, it's pretty rough.   The ball comes out prickly and not very straight and kind of wobbling. 

Q.   Can you refresh our memory, what was your best chance to win a Major, say going into the last nine Sunday on the Regular Tour ever?   Do you have any close calls or do you feel like you had a shot in any one?
DUFFY WALDORF:   I would say my best chance was probably the British Open in 2003 at Muirfield.   I was leading, tied for the lead after the first day, the second day, and not after the third day.   Not after my 77 after the wind came, the infamous day, most infamous day in golf. 
But I think I was four shots out of the playoff.   And I was a couple under the last day, but I obviously played really well all week and the four shots were not impossible. 
I would say that one.   Even though that was, I think I still finished 15th.   I was ninth at the U.S. Open in '94.   But I don't feel ‑‑ that one I think I was four or five back.   But I don't feel like, didn't feel like I had a chance the last day.   I would say the British Open would have been my best chance. 

Q.   When you find yourself on one of these roller coaster type rounds, how much more difficult is it mentally, especially in a PGA Championship than when you go in pretty much knowing what you have working that day?
DUFFY WALDORF:   It's a lot easier to hit the ball in the fairway and hit the ball on the green like I did yesterday.   It's easier on you mentally.   Even when I felt like I had it, I kind of struggled a little bit early and then I turned it around on 7, 6 and 7.   And then 8 I kind of missed a short putt on 8.   And then bogeyed 9 and 11.   And you just are kind of like, you were in much better shape a couple holes ago and I didn't do much. 
It's hard to go through 72 holes and not have some roller coasters, so you kind of expect it.   If that's my only roller coaster, I'm pretty happy.   Hopefully the next two days will be a little steadier. 
It's easier on the nerves, I think it's easier to get into a groove too when you're in the fairway and then you know how far you're hitting the ball and you can really start to shoot some good scores.   So hopefully this was my little roller coaster for the week. 
KELLY ELBIN:   Duffy Waldorf, 4‑under midway through the Senior PGA Championship presented by KitchenAid.   Thank you.
DUFFY WALDORF:   Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT