BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 26, 2005
Duffy Waldorf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOE CHEMYCZ:  8-under par 64.  Talk about your day if you would, please.
DUFFY WALDORF:  Well, obviously it was a good day.  I went bogey-free, which is the first time this year, which made a big difference, and I kept the ball in play for the most part, didn't get in a lot of trouble, only missed a few greens, and got the ball up-and-down.

I had some nice runs.  I played pretty steady on the front but actually had some missed opportunities on the front, went around 3-under, and then I had some nice opportunities, birdieing 12, 13 and 14, and then finished the round birdieing 17 and 18.
Q.  Keys to your game today?
DUFFY WALDORF:  Good distance control and accuracy with my irons, so having a lot of opportunities for birdies, and I putted well.  I putted the best I've putted this year, really had good pace on the ball and was really reading the greens well.  Accuracy and good putting for me today.
Q.  Do you have to shoot 64 every day or something close to it?
DUFFY WALDORF:  Hard to say.  I would have thought today might have been a harder day, but it turned out the wind didn't blow and it obviously wasn't too wet.  I was kind of expecting a harder day.  I think you go with that mindset that if you can get it going, you want to go as low as you can.  It seems like every day somebody goes with low rounds.  If you can keep the ball in play you're going to get a lot of good chances.

PGA West can play hard, LaQuinta can play hard, so this was a good course to get it going.
Q.  How hard is it to keep your tournament going with five good rounds?  Four is tough enough.  Is five even tougher?
DUFFY WALDORF:  I've always thought so.  Las Vegas is a tough tournament, qualifying tournament tournaments, five or six rounds.  Yeah, it's tough, but you almost have to -- it seems like the first three to four days are almost kind of like the first round.  You just feel like you're starting over because you've got a new course, a new group, and you feel like you're starting over fresh every day.

I mean, that's kind of the attitude I take, have it fresh every day and then enjoy -- figure out a way to get around each course as best you can and repeat the exercise the next day.
Q.  One of the words we keep hearing from guys today is patience, both in terms of individual rounds and the length of rounds and also the 90 holes.  Is it hard to stay patient and not try and push for a birdie here and there and not say, well, I made par there, I had to make birdie, something along those lines?
DUFFY WALDORF:  I think it's harder in an event like this to be patient because you have a tendency to look at the board.  You know that if you let a par 5 go by or you have four or five pars or you make a bogey or two, then all of a sudden it's very hard to be patient.

If you're playing a harder course and you make a few bogeys, you still feel like you can get it back, when you know that par is not going to be that good a score out here.  It is hard to be patient out here.  You need to kind of feed your inner birdie man.  The birdie man is saying, "okay, there's some birdie holes here.  You need to make some birdies."  You have to beat them, and if you don't, you're not going to be patient.
Q.  You were in Bermuda today.  Do you pay much attention today to the rotation or are the four courses fairly similar in that regard?
DUFFY WALDORF:  I think after three rounds you might have a look at it.  You might have a tendency to see either where the good scoring -- what rotation maybe has good scoring or what course maybe is playing harder than the others, but certainly the first few days, first three days for sure, even four days, you just kind of try to get prepared for the next course.  I think I've always felt LaQuinta is the hardest course out here, but a lot depends on the day you play, too.  You just kind of be prepared for kind of a new challenge every day.
Q.  You mentioned being patient, but isn't there a philosophy at the same time, too, that you have to be a little greedy and just pile up as many birdies as you can and wait until the end of a few rounds and count them up?
DUFFY WALDORF:  I think if you have an opportunity you have to give yourself a good roll at it, whether you've got a wedge in your hand approaching the green or you've got a good birdie putt, 15, 20-footer.  You've got to be at least giving yourself a good roll at it, a good putt with a chance to go in.  They're not all going to go in, but you do have to do both.  You have to be kind of aggressive when the opportunity is there.  There are some hard holes out here and you've got to be able to be patient enough to go on -- get some pars when the holes dictate that, either the hole or the pin placement on your position on the hole.

I think as important as the birdies are out here, you still have to make a lot more pars than you do birdies.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Before we go, if you don't mind going over your birdies and what you did on those holes for us, please.
DUFFY WALDORF:  First hole, I drove down into the right rough and I laid up and had 100 yards and hit a wedge about six feet and made that for birdie.

Then the next birdie was on No. 5, the par 4, I had 150 yards in and I hit an 8-iron about ten feet and made that for birdie.

Then I made a birdie on the par 3, had a 6-iron, hit it in there about 15 feet and made that for birdie.

12, I hit a real nice 8-iron about 149 yards, and I hit an 8-iron about five feet past the hole.

Next hole, par 5, I laid up again and I had 85 yards and I hit a wedge in there about eight feet and made that for birdie.

Next hole, I hit a good drive and I had about 108 yards and hit a wedge, hit a good wedge in there about eight, nine feet, made that for birdie.

Then all the way to 17, hit a real good 3-iron and hit it about 15 feet.

Then 18, I hit a good drive and I had about 225 and I went with 4-wood, came up just short in the bunker, hit a good bunker shot about four feet, made it.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Duffy, we appreciate it.  Play well the rest of the week.
DUFFY WALDORF:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT