VALERO TEXAS OPEN
September 25, 2003
Duffy Waldorf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DUFFY WALDORF:   Well, I just played really solid today.  I think I only missed one green which was the first hole I played today, No. 10, and chipped it close.  The key today was keeping the ball in play and having birdie opportunities.  I felt I could have had a low round.  6 under is a very, very good round, but I played well enough to shoot a low round.  That's good because you feel like maybe tomorrow if you keep playing like that, you'll get all those putts that you missed today.  To me, the key to my round was staying in play and I didn't make any bogeys.  That was nice.


Q.  How many putts did you have today?

DUFFY WALDORF:   I didn't really add them up.    Let's go to shot link.  If I really thought about it, I could probably do it pretty quickly.


Q.  How many did you feel you left out there?

DUFFY WALDORF:   I had some good birdie opportunities that I didn't make.  I made a lot of good putts.  I felt I probably could have made three more in that 8 to 15 foot range where I had    these greens are good.  I feel I read them pretty well.  I hit some long    I had putts on every hole.  Like I said, I only missed one green, I think, so I had opportunities.  Even longer putts you think you might     sometimes we roll in those 30 footers, these pro golfers, they have a tendency to roll them right in sometimes.

JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  What was your longest putt for birdie?

DUFFY WALDORF:   No. 11, I made about a 10 footer.  I made a long one somewhere.  No.  2, I made about a 10 footer.  And No. 11, I made about a 10 footer.  I guess  those were my long ones.  The rest were shorter.


Q.  Are you kind of surprised with the low scores in the first round, knowing it is kind of a hike up those hills?

DUFFY WALDORF:   Well, gosh, everyone is in such good shape, aren't they, except me.  Myself, I work out at Rudy's.  My mouth gets a big workout.  I'm not surprised.  I'm amazed how different the course has played over the years, from the first year, '95.  The greens are really soft.  That's a huge factor out here.  These greens, they roll really well.  When they're soft, it makes a big difference.  The fact there is no wind, I would expect there would be low scores.


Q.  Similarities to today's round as you played in '99?  Did you think about that at all?

DUFFY WALDORF:   It played similar as in '99.  It was soft.  I could fire at the pin, for the most part.  In '99, tee to green, I had a lot of birdie putts.  I didn't make them all.  I played totally different than '95.  That seems like a long time ago.  It was very firm and fast.  The first couple of years here, the ground was very hard and it wasn't lush.  Balls were running and the greens were hard.  They were fast, and it was windy, too.  There were a lot of differences.  We haven't had the wind here that we've had in the past here, it seems like.

JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  You didn't notice any change in the wind as you played today?

DUFFY WALDORF:   There wasn't very much wind.  I think it blew a little different direction, but it was blowing two or three miles an hour.  It really didn't change your club section.


Q.  Two golfers today shot 29, on both sides.  Have you been with a golfer or shot 29 on nine?  Do you find yourself become being a little bit of a fan when someone is that hot, watching them?

DUFFY WALDORF:   I love playing with guys who are shooting low.  It's a lot easier to play with someone who is hitting good shots, you can kind of follow their lead and learn how they're hitting it.  It definitely makes it easier.  I enjoy watching guys shoot low.  I enjoy shooting low, too.  It's more fun when I do it.  It's a par 70 and there's a good chance    every hole right now, with the way the greens are, is a birdie hole if the wind isn't blowing too hard.


Q.  You mentioned Rudy's.  People from the PGA Tour, whether it's officials or players, they talk about Rudy's.  Is that sort of the spot where everyone likes to go, Rudy's Barbecue?

DUFFY WALDORF:   I didn't discover Rudy's until after I won here my first time.  I was on a different program when my kids were out.  We didn't have the Westin, for one thing, so you stayed closer to town.  We were on the river boat program, where we went into town almost every night and ate out at a Mexican restaurant or the Hard Rock, Fudrucker's or something, with the kids.  But now I'm out here alone and we're connoisseurs, and I discovered Rudy's four or five years ago.  It's a common stop.  It's not far.  Now to go to town is a big drive for us old guys.  We just like to hang out in the hotel.  And Rudy's, that's going out now.

JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Let's go through your six birdies, starting with No. 11.

DUFFY WALDORF:   I started on the back side No. 11, I hit it about 10 feet, made that putt.  I had like a 130 yard shot in with a wedge. 

The par 3, I hit 9 iron, I hit it close again, about eight, nine feet. 

Then 3 putted the next hole.  That was one of those opportunities. 

The next one I hit it close, too.  16, I hit it close, about eight feet, and made it for birdie with a wedge from the fairway. 

Back side, No.  2, I had about 150 yards, 8 iron to about 10 feet and made that for birdie.

All the way to No. 7, I had about a 100 yard sand wedge and hit it in there about six feet. 

And then the next hole, I made a long putt.  It was about a good 15 footer.  I take it back, No. 8 I hit a wedge about 15 feet, and made it.  There was my long putt.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT