FBR CAPITAL OPEN
June 8, 2003
Duffy Waldorf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOE CHEMYCZ:  We welcome Duffy Waldorf.  5-under 66 today, puts you at 8 under.    Ironically, you were 8 under after three rounds here last year. 
DUFFY WALDORF: It is ironic. 
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Looking up, 66 your best scoring round in this event in 39 trips around this golf course.  The best DAY you've ever had here.
DUFFY WALDORF:   39 trips?
JOE CHEMYCZ:  39 trips.
DUFFY WALDORF:  I play here in the off season a lot, I guess.  39 trips?  Doesn't that seem like a lot of trips.  It does to me.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Talk about your good day today and your play.
DUFFY WALDORF:   The play was nice.  I got off to a good start.  I wanted to get comfortable early, and I did.  I hit a got iron shot on No. 1.  Hit it in there about 10 feet, made that for birdie.  I was hitting good iron shots the next couple of holes.  I got into a good routine, a good rhythm, and so I was just kind of playing along and waiting to make the birdies. 
I made a good birdie on No. 5.  I hit a sand wedge in there about three feet and made that for birdie.  Then I made a real good birdie on No. 7.  I hit a 4-iron from about 210 and made about a ten-footer for birdie there.  Then I had some good shots the next few holes, didn't make the putts. 
And then No. 11 I hit a good shot to about 5 feet and made that for birdie, with a 9-iron. 
Bogeyed No. 12, hit my drive in the rough, had to lay-up, hit it on the green and two-putted.
13, I hit driver and 3-wood just short of the green on the left, hit a real good chip about three feet and made that for birdie. 
The next hole I hit a sand wedge  -- laid up and hit a sand wedge on the par four and hit it in there to about 10 feet and made for that birdie. 
And then I had a beautiful shot on 15 from about 170, and hit it in there about a foot with an 8-iron. 
And then 17, I pulled my shot just left of the green, hit a good chip and missed about a 4-footer for par. 
Those are the highs and lows of the round.  Everything else right in the middle.

Q.  Was is the family mark on the golf ball this week?
DUFFY WALDORF:   The family is at home right now, and I'm staying in a house here on the course with some friends and they're doing the golf balls.  In between poker games, they mark the golf balls, so I'm getting guest artists this week.  Some of them have cars, and usually they'll have "Go Duffy" balls, and some people get creative with that.  Little designs.  I made three birdies with a ball that just had a dot design thing, a lot of happy faces.  A wide variety.  None of them are the same.  They're all a little different.

Q.  You said you played here a lot.  Is there something about the course that you really love or hit you at the right time of the year?
DUFFY WALDORF: Yes, I like it.  I like the month of June.  I think I have had some good rounds in June.  I won the Buick Classic a few years ago.  I like playing in the Northeast, poa annua greens.  I like the greens here.  It's one of those events that I seem to contend a lot at.  I've probably had three or four years where I've had real good shots winning or finishing real high.  The first being back in '92.  I think I was in the lead after three rounds.  I have had some good experiences here.  The course is like that.  I seem to do pretty well when I'm playing well.  I think it was '92.

Q.  Do you play much with either Rory or Nic Fasth?  And what can you tell us about them from your experience?
DUFFY WALDORF:   I've played with Rory a few times.  He's a lot of fun to play with.  It seems like he plays by the seat of his pants.  He goes for everything and is an aggressive player.  A long hitter and a good putter.  When he's on he's a tough player to beat. 
Niclas Fasth, I've never played with before.  He's a Ryder Cup player, so I don't need to say any more.

Q.  Can you just talk about the back nine improvement today over previous rounds?
DUFFY WALDORF:   Well, the big improvement today is I made four birdies.  The other day, the first day, I made four bogeys on the back side, no birdies.  Yesterday I made two birdies, two bogeys, and today I made two bogeys and four birdies.  So it really came down to today.  I took advantage of my opportunities on the back.  I had some birdie opportunities and took advantage of them. 
I made a nice birdie on No. 11, had a close shot there.  I think today I hit it the best on the back side.  I actually had a good chance on No. 10 to make birdie from about 8 feet.  I didn't make it.  And then even coming in 16, 17, 18, I didn't hit anything close, but those were all good chances. 
Today, I obviously made played my best, making all those birdies, making the most of the birdie opportunities.  I think that was the difference.  I'd like to get through there without making two to four bogeys every time.  That would be nice.  That's golf.  There are tough holes out there.

Q.  Will you be going to the Open?
DUFFY WALDORF: No, I'm going home tomorrow night.

Q.  Can you talk about the condition of the course.  From what you guys saw on television last night, I think we all saw rivers running through it.  Were you surprised how good the place looked today or was that an illusion?
DUFFY WALDORF:   I'm surprised how much it was about the same as it was two days ago.  I mean it was a good rain yesterday and it had been drying out Thursday and Friday.  And Friday I was thinking they might be able to go play the ball down on Saturday if there was no rain.  It was that close to being there.  To have that kind of rain and come back and today wasn't really any worse than the other days, it was pretty impressive.  It drained really well.  If you can get a little break here, the course has really good drainage.  The holes on the bottom, the low fairways are a little soft, but that's to be expected. 
On 18, the fairway was really good.  16, same thing.  The elevated fairways, those are in good shape.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Thank you.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT