WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 12, 2000
Duffy Waldorf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. ...I only saw what I saw, and it wasn't too good.

DUFFY WALDORF:  Well, 17's a hard hole.  It's a hard hole.  I think the pin placement really makes that hole.  When they put it on the right, you just have to make a very precise shot on it.   I think it's a good test.  It's a tough shot when you're hitting a wedge in there or going for it in two.  I don't know.  I tell you what, I wouldn't want to have to play that hole with the lead.   It would be a hard hole to try to play safe on.

Q.  The field was wide open there for a while.  You had to feel that you could have had a shot to make it two in a row.

DUFFY WALDORF:  Yeah.  You know, I would have liked to have hit it in the fairway on 17 and had a shot to go for the green.   I had my chances a little earlier in the round.  I needed to make a few more birdies, I think, in the middle of the back side and give myself a good chance.  It was kind of do-or-die by the time I got to 17.

Q.  You have to be pleased with the way your year ended and where you are now in the world of golf.   It seems like you've jumped up a notch or two.

DUFFY WALDORF:  Well, it's all because my wife went on the Golf Channel last week in Orlando a few weeks ago.  It pretty much has been all good stuff from there.  You never know when these little hot streaks are going to come, and I just hope I can continue on for next year.

Q.  Is 17 a fair hole?

DUFFY WALDORF:  I don't know.  It seems a lot fairer this year than it did last year.  I was able to get through it with three birdies and a par.  What's on the right is just a very exacting hole.  You never hear anybody talk about some of the holes at Augusta, but it's very similar to the holes at Augusta.  You just have to be very precise, be right on your game, and have the read of the wind right.  That makes it tough.  I thought it played pretty well this year.

Q.  But even good shots roll back into the water.

DUFFY WALDORF:  Shots that are short definitely roll back in the water.  You've really got to have control over not only the distance, but the spin.  That's hard, when you're coming in with a wedge in your hand.  That's why you see some of the shots that you see.

Q.  You were able to hold on today. (Inaudible).  What would it mean for him to win, and the feeling you guys have for him?

DUFFY WALDORF:  Well, I mean, it's great to see a guy come as far as he has.  He's really come a long ways in a short period of time.  It seems I just remember him struggling to keep his card a few years ago.  (Inaudible) I know he's had a real steady, strong year.  It's going to be exciting for him to finish it off this strong.

Q.  What impresses you most about Mike's game?

DUFFY WALDORF:  Gosh, I like everything about his game.  I like the action, his repeating action of his swing.  It seems like when he's in a groove, I mean the ball just starts right on the line that he intends it to.  Tie that in with a really good putter, and you've got a tough man to beat when he's on.

Q.  He, above all, seems to have held his nerves these last few holes and not made any errors.

DUFFY WALDORF:  I'll tell you what, you've got to be not only on your game, but relaxed.  And especially with these fairways, you start getting really tight when you get nervous or when you're struggling with your swing.  That's what it comes down to.  That's why it's probably one of the better tests we play, because you've really got to be on your game.

Q.  Do you think Mike is a cool customer?

DUFFY WALDORF:  Yeah, he's a pretty cool customer.  No doubt about it.  Very intense, but calm and quiet, too, in the same regard.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT