WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 10, 2000
Duffy Waldorf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What do you think of the way you played 17? That was quite special. 
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: Yeah, I mean, you kind of look in the bag. It's about 230 to the hole.
There weren't a lot of clubs to pick. It was either a layup, or fire at it with a long
iron. I had a really good lie with a long iron, but an uphill lie. So I figured, "Why
not give it a shot?" I hadn't been making full swings all day. That was the only
concern. I hadn't hit that full, high shot. But I hit it right on the button. Whether or
not it came out good, I hit it the way I wanted to. And it did turn out nice.  
 
Q. Half-way, you're in exactly the position you want to be in: Right up there. 
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: Yeah, it's great to be there. This course, it's a battle against it.
This is a tough course to battle. You really have to go out there and survive it for a few
days if you're not right on your game. Yesterday was survival, and today was a little
better. Hopefully, you can stay in position and have a chance on Saturday and Sunday.  
 
Q. Could you talk a little bit about your round today, the conditions out there. 
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: It was cold out there today. It was windy. Quite a big difference.
Yesterday was just a beautiful day, perfect weather: Warm, light breeze. Today, it seemed
a little more like Europe. You had to really watch your shots. The wind was a huge factor.
The ball would get hit by the wind, and it was a matter of just trusting that the wind was
there and then choosing the right line that would get you back in play.  
 
Q. It seemed like a little bit of a story of just trying to survive out there in the
afternoon. 
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: Well, there's no doubt it was kind of survival. Fortunately, for me, I
got off to a pretty good start. After bogeying No. 3, I birdied four of the next five
holes. So I kind of got ahead of the course then. The back side, I was just holding on. It
wasn't getting any easier. I had a lot of tough iron shots to small greens. And they look
small enough without the wind, but when you throw the wind in there, some of them look
really small.  
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT