BUICK CLASSIC
June 10, 2000
Duffy Waldorf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: Yeah, I had a nice day. I played very solid today. I didn't -- I didn't
get in too much trouble, and when I did I got up-and-down I made par. No bogeys today; so
that was a big plus. Hit most of the fairways. I missed -- I don't know, I missed three or
four greens, but I was able to get the ball up-and-down and just stay in there. I thought
it was a pretty hard day to play golf, and to go around with no bogeys was a real plus;
and I'm real happy with the way I just stayed patient and kept hitting the ball on the
green and taking par where I could. 
 
Q. If you had to look at the leaderboard and obviously seeing guys like Els and Duval
just came up to 6( -under), I think, what does that do for your mindset going into
tomorrow? 
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: Well, I think it's good. I mean, I can't really play like I'm in the
lead. I should play like I'm just starting the tournament and go for as low round as I
can, because there are so many guys that are close to me, great players, I'm going to have
to -- obviously, just shoot the lowest round out of those great players, anyway. So I feel
like I'm just part of the pack, since I'm not really in the lead I'm just going to go out
there and play my best game and hope it's enough. But with that many guys close, you can't
really feel like you've got a lead to protect or you're in the lead at all real. 
 
Q. Again you're obviously managing your own game well and you're the defending
champion, and a guy like Els has won twice here; do you know that mindset of having to
win? How much confidence does that give you knowing you've won here before and maybe what
might be going through his mind?
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: Well, it gives me a lot of confidence in the sense that I know how the
course plays. I know how to score on some of the holes. And really, I feel like I have the
right attitude to play the course. I think that's what you need. Whatever happens tomorrow
happens. I feel like I'm playing really well and I feel like I have a good chance, and I
know those guys around me are playing well, too. So it will be quite a shootout tomorrow I
would imagine.  
 
Q. Do you pay any more attention to any of the players in that pack over others? 
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: No, not really. I mean, if I had -- if it was maybe me and just a couple
other guys, a little more spread you would maybe look at the guys you're playing near, but
I think -- I saw at least four guys right behind me. In that case it just feels like
you're all even and you're going to go out there and see who does the best.  
 
Q. Coming into the tournament, you said that everything was pretty good except for the
putting. Has the putting been better?
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: Putting has been a little better this week, and I think overall, this
year I think I've probably played maybe a touch better tee-to-green. I think I putted --
putted really well this week. Last year I putted great. I think I may have putted a little
better last year, but still 18 holes to go, so I may still have had my best putting to go.
My speed has been good. I've had a lot of good putts that were close, and maybe tomorrow I
might make a few more.  
 
Q. You always seem to play well here; do you have confidence when you get here?
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: I think so. It seems like it's one of the courses I really don't think
about distance at all, as far as distance off the tee. I'm always thinking position off
the tee, what kind of club I need to hit, or what side of the fairway I want to hit it on
or what type of shot. I never think about hitting it far, and some of the courses that we
play in, maybe I think I'm thinking about hitting it too far or as far as I can, and here
I'm always thinking about position and not worrying about the distance. I think that
helps. It helps me off the tee quite a bit, I think.  
 
Q. If the conditions stay relatively the same, would you take 10-under tomorrow? 
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: You'll have to ask me that at end when I see who is out there. I would
think -- I mean, I shot 3-under today; I think that was a great round. I don't know what
the low round was today was, but I think in the same conditions tomorrow, 3-under would be
an excellent rounds, no doubt about it. Whether it's good enough to win, it's only in the
stars, but I think that would be a very, very good score.  
 
Q. You've been in the last group here --
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: I think this is my fourth time. Janzen, I played with Frost one year and
Carter last year. 
 
Q. Do you feel like you gain experience each time you do that? 
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: Yeah, I think it's good. It's a good place to play from. Good to have
everyone in front of you. I think it's probably a little easier to play in front and not
play in the last group. But it's a good experience because you can -- it's a good place to
win a golf tournament or be in position to win. I mean, that's the best place to be
usually. So it's good -- good to get some practice from there. 
 
Q. How did you become a horse for this course?
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: I was telling Rick the other day, I didn't break 80 my first two times
here, and it's a course you kind of grew into. I think if I had just gone with my first
two rounds here, I would never have come back. But I think as my game developed, the
strengths of my game developed to find what's needed for this course, and I think that's
why I play well here. I think it's a course that plays really hard and requires you to
play position off the tee. And I found that the course in Texas, La Cantera, is another
course that's quite a bit of position off the tee. Maybe I should play them all like that.
If I pretend they are all position of the tee, I'll play well. 
 
Q. Is it tree-lined golf courses --
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: I think rough-defined as much as anything. Rough-defined helps. And
rough-defined, when you've got firm fairways, you've got to really picture a much more
precise shot. In other words, you've got to hit -- if you're just playing a course with a
40-yard wide fairway and it's not -- relatively flat, you can hit a draw down the right or
fade down the left or aim down the middle. Here it's usually you've got to hit a shape
shot to fit the fairway, because it has a slope in it and it will kick off into the rough
if you don't. So you've got to play a more precise shot on courses like this.  
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: What did I etch on my ball? "Putting machine" on one of them.
"Happy days" on my first one -- "in a New York minute, everything can
change." I had 15 pars today. I birdied No. 5s, the par 5. I hit it in the rough off
the tee and laid up and had about 130 yards and hit a 9-iron past the hole about 20 feet
and made the 20-footer down the hill. And I birdied No. 9. I hit a 2-iron over the green
and had a short chip and chipped it up about four feet and made that for birdie. And then
No. 10, I drove it on the front of the green. Had about a 20-footer for eagle and
2-putted. I parred everything else.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT