BAY HILL INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY COOPER TIRES
March 16, 2000
Duffy Waldorf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DUFFY WALDORF: Started on No. 10 today and got off to a good start. I mad a birdie on
the 1st hole, which was NO. 10 for me, about a 30-footer right up the hill. And then I
went to No. 12 and hit a good wedge shot in there about -- made it, about an 8-footer for
a birdie there. And then I went all the way to 15. I made a bogey on 15. I missed the
green to the left and didn't get up-and-down. And 16, I laid up. It was playing long, into
the wind and I had about 110 yards, 9-iron, hit in there about 20 feet and made it. Then
on No. 2, I made a bogey missed the green in the bunker and didn't get up-and-down. No. 3,
I hit a good shot, 140 yards, pitching wedge downwind. Hit it about 15 feet and made it
for birdie. And then the next hole, No. 4, I hit a bad drive, but I laid up good and I
didn't -- I hit a nice wedge in about 25 feet and made it for birdie. The par 5, I went
for the green in 2 and hit it over the green, just short of the bunker and had a long
chip. Chipped a good chip about four feet and made it for birdie. And then I had a nice
save on No. 9 for par. It was a nice 30-footer for par on that hole. 

Q. How tough were the conditions? 

DUFFY WALDORF: Well, I thought it was -- the conditions in the air were tough. The
ground was nice. The ground -- the greens were holding, for the most part. Really had to
be careful on the downwind holes. The downwind holes were very hard to hold the ball. Even
though the into-the-wind holes were playing longer, you knew you could at least hold the
green on them. So I mean it was playing hard because you had to put the ball in the air to
get it there but -- if you hit a good shot, it seemed to hold really well and the greens
were pretty nice. 

Q. Last year or so, do you think you're playing as well as you ever have, and if so,
why? 

DUFFY WALDORF: Last year, I've been playing really well, probably pretty close to as
well as I've ever played. Obviously, I've won a couple tournaments, and the reason why is
I'm shooting lower. But why am I shooting lower, right? The reason why is probably I've
been hitting the ball pretty well the last three or four years, but now I'm just getting a
little bit more out of my short game, chipping the ball well and making extra putt a round
on average. I've been putting really well the last six months. That's made a difference.
Since that Buick Classic win I think I've been putting a little bit better and I think
that's really made a big difference.

Q. Have you done anything differently with your putting, beyond working on it,
obviously?

DUFFY WALDORF: Yeah. Probably the main change mechanically is I went cross-handed a
year ago. In fact, it was a year ago at The PLAYERS Championship. And I putted pretty well
with the cross-handed. Mentally, a few adjustments in the thinking, but cross-handed was a
major mechanical change. And just getting adjusted to hitting the ball the right speed has
been the main thing with that. The cross-handed seemed to have gotten me lined up pretty
well and aiming well. It's just a matter of getting the speed right.

Q. Why that switch? 

DUFFY WALDORF: Well, just wasn't happy with the way I was putting. In fact, I remember
working real hard on it before I came out to The PLAYERS Championship last year. I worked
on it -- I was home for I think two weeks before and I worked with my coach on my putting,
and I putted -- and I got out there at TPC and played a practice round on Monday and
Tuesday. I'm like -- I think played another practice round it just wasn't happening. Man,
I'm just not making putts not making putts, and started experiments with the cross-handed
on the practice green. Which is something I practice with quite a bit just for fun. And I
just decided that the way I was putting Monday and Tuesday, I thought it couldn't be any
worse if I went cross-handed, and it was quite an experience the first three holes,
though, I tell you, I was scared. I was scared when I made those first few putts. But I
rolled in a putt on I think the 3rd hole at The PLAYERS; rolled in a long putt. So I guess
this might work; so I'm going to stick with it. 

Q. How would you assess your play in match play?

DUFFY WALDORF: In the tournament or just in general? At the Andersen Consulting? Played
really well. Played really well. Totally different conditions. Really wet and cool. But I
think today, the big difference was I putted. I putted quite a bit better than I did at
the Match Play. The Match Play, I was putting well, but just a couple more putts fell in
today and that was the difference. I think I did a little better today. You know, match
play obviously it depends on how the guy you play against plays. I was playing well
tee-to-green, and my third match to Hal Sutton, I didn't quite make enough putts to win
the match and that was the difference. If I had putted like I had today, I probably would
have been pretty competitive. 

Q. Some people were surprised that you made it to the final 16?

DUFFY WALDORF: I guess that's up to them. I wasn't surprised. I knew I'd go out and
play well, but you can't really -- you can't really decide what your opponent's going to
do. You hopefully will put some pressure on them and make it harder for them to beat you.
That's kind of what I did the first two days. That wasn't surprising to me. I think in
match play . I felt a little more confident because I feel like I can beat any player in a
one-day situation. If I play well, I can be tough to beat. Four days, things happen over
four days. And one day, I think a lot of guys have a pretty good chance to beat another
player. 

Q. With the luxury of two wins last year, do you find you are able to be more
aggressive, do things you might not have done before or have you tried to change at all?

DUFFY WALDORF: I have found over the years that you are constantly doing little
adjustments and I found that making small adjustments are good. And I have the luxury of
changing things. But I think all I needed was maybe just little adjustments and that's
kind of what I've been doing, just working on the little things. And, you know, as far as
maybe the confidence you get from two wins, I think it's important and I've pretty much
decided you've got to be confident first before you win. So I kind of take the confidence
-- the wins kind of boost your confidence, but I think there's times where you have to
just go out and be confident, even if you're not making the putts or even if you're not
playing as well as you think you should. You've still got to go out there and be
confident, and that's the only way you're going to get to the place where you want to be,
which is contending and winning in tournaments. 

Q. Based on what you did last year, did you enter this year with maybe higher
expectations than you've had the past two, three or four years? 

DUFFY WALDORF: No. I was very happy with the way I played last year, and I think I
entered this year with expectations that, you know, if I play well -- I don't really put a
lot of importance on how I finish overall. I mean, I look how I'm playing, how I'm
driving, how I'm hitting my irons, how I'm chipping and putting, and I feel like if I keep
my focus on that the finishes will come. And I don't know if I'm going to have five wins
or -- I might be happy with my year and not win at all and just have some good finishes. I
feel if I tend to the things, the parts of my game that need work, I'll be competitive. 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT