MERCEDES CHAMPIONSHIPS
January 6, 2000
Duffy Waldorf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: Well, it was windier than it was yesterday. I played early. It was a
nice course yesterday morning, but today was the way Kapalua can play. I've played here
enough times to have seen conditions like this. It helps to have a little course knowledge
on a day like today. You've got to aim in places you can't believe you got to aim. But the
course is playable, if you can kind of bide your time and get the opportunities when you
can. I played really, I felt, conservative, but I was hitting the ball really well, too,
so that helped a lot. I was hitting the shots where I wanted to. For the most part, they
were working out. I felt I hit the ball really well tee to green. Didn't have a great day
putting. 1-putted or 2-putted every hole. That's pretty good. I think these greens are
very tough to read, not only the break, but the speed, too. All in all, a very good day
for me.  
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: Sure. I birdie -- my first birdie was on No. 3. Real good shot. I had
about 128 yard shot. I think I hit a 7-iron. Hit it in there about six feet past the hole
and made that for birdie. Then two holes later, No. 5, the par 5, I hit a good drive, a
4-iron from about 210, hit it in there about 20 feet, 2-putted for birdie. No. 9, I hit
driver, 3-wood just up short of the green, chipped it about a foot for birdie there. I
parred all the way to 13. 13 I made a bogey. I missed the green with my second shot and my
third shot, but hit a real good fourth shot, about three feet away, made bogey. The next
hole I hit a good drive, had about a 60-yard shot, hit it in there about four feet above
the hole, made it for birdie. Parred in from there.  
 
Q. What is the toughest part about playing in the wind? We hear it's actually putting. 
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: Well, putting is tough because when you're taking a full swing, your
club head speed is a hundred miles an hour or even more. When you hit a putt, the club
head speed is so small that the wind, 13 miles an hour wind, that can really affect the
putter blade when it's going back because you're hitting it with a nice, soft motion. That
to me has always been the hardest part, standing up with the putter and keeping a steady
putter. Especially you get downhill, downwind, very hard to get the putter head back,
fighting the wind on the way back, it gets pushed through. Into the wind, you can give it
a rap usually. Usually a little bit easier. I always find downhill, downwind, then
anything from the left-to-right, when it's pushing you from behind, it really makes it
hard to keep the putter blade where you want it. You forget how nice it is to putt when
there's no wind and the stroke just goes right where you want it to. But when the wind is
blowing it, I think that is the toughest part of playing in the wind. This course
especially, it's very playable in the wind. Can you hit shots along the ground, you can
keep it low. Some of the modern courses we play with a lot of water put a big premium on
hitting shots. But here, I mean, you miss a shot a little bit, you're still off the edge
of the green a little bit, you can recover. But it is hard to putt. 
 
Q. You hit a 7-iron 128 yards, which sounds like us. Were you just dead into the wind
or a punch shot or what?
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: It wasn't a full shot, but if I'd hit a full shot with it, it wouldn't
have gone much farther. It was like a half shot. I kept it low; it went the distance. If I
went ahead and hit a nice, it would have started out a lot farther, but then come like
that and back to me (indicating). I hit a shot on the 13th hole. I had like -- only 175
yards, seemed like it was forever. First I hit a 5-iron. It was going pretty strong, then
the wind got it; it was coming back. It hit about 15, 20 yards short of the green, rolled
to like 50 yards away. It came back another 30 down the hill. I got the 50 yard shot, hit
the sand wedge. I mean, I hit it hard. It didn't matter because it was one of those shots.
Like I said, I hit it too high, it went up. It would have gone 70 if there was no wind,
but the wind got it and it was coming straight back. It hit the bunker. It was going so
hard backwards that it hit the bunker, came out, went another ten yards back. That's how
hard the wind was blowing at that point.  
 
Q. What hole was that?
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: That was No. 13. When I was playing 13, the wind -- really at 11, 12,
13, I thought the wind was -- that was when it was blowing the hardest. I think really the
last 16, 17, 18 weren't too bad. Those middle holes for me on the backside, it was
whipping strong (laughter). 13th hole, I thought I was never going to get to the hole. I
kept hitting shots, they'd blow back, they'd blow back. 
 
Q. For guys who haven't been over here as often as you, how much of a mental drain is
that to finish a round like this today, and then think that you may have three more days
like it? 
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: I don't know. I think it would be pretty draining. It was draining for
me and I was playing really well. There was a lot of -- burning a lot of energy out there.
Every shot, you're kind of figuring a shot you want to hit, figuring kind of the miss
area. You got to play for some miss out there. You know, there's a lot of calculating
going on instead of just standing up there, 150 yards, give me the 8-iron, make your
swing. It's kind of draining. I mean, at least the good news is, the pool is available
right after the round. The rest of Hawaii is available (laughter). If you're over in some
other places we play, it's maybe a lot colder windy, there's nothing to do, I mean, that
would be even more draining, I think. At least you have some relaxation time available.  
 
Q. How many times have you been here? 
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: Just to Hawaii?  
 
Q. To Kapalua. 
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: Well, quite a few. I mean, we'd have to go back in the record books. I'd
guess at least eight times.  
 
Q. Why so many times? That's more than most. 
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: It is? I don't know. I always came whenever they invited me because I
love Hawaii. I'd pretty much come to Hawaii just about whenever I can. We vacationed here
when I was younger. I've always loved it. I like playing golf here, too, because it's
warm. The wind doesn't bother me. I mean, the wind is a challenge, but I like playing in
the wind. I pretty much making Wailea every year and making Kapalua every year that I can.
I didn't play this last November because I got in the Shark Shootout, but I knew I had
this tournament coming up. 
 
Q. You'll be going to Wailea next week?
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: Uh-huh. 
 
Q. What is your take on what Tiger did toward the end of last year? Is it at all
surprising or did you expect to see his name up on the board?
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: You're never surprised to see his name on the board now. I guess it's
more surprising when it's off the board. I think at the end of the year, he's playing
better -- obviously much better than anybody on Tour, probably as well as anybody has
played in a long time on the Tour. He's playing at a level that not many have reached out
here. I think all of us have played at that level, but not for very long. Maybe for a
week, we win a tournament, get a little run in there. I think he's raised the level. He's
raised the level, when he's playing well, not that many play quite as well as he does when
everything is kind of working in his game. He does everything so well. He's really
improving in all areas of his game.  
 
Q. You talked about you had to aim in some places that where somewhat obscene. Can you
give some examples?
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: Well, I would say -- the funny thing about the aim, a hole like No. 8,
par 3, 180 yard shot, pin in the front, strong right-to-left wind. I aimed a good 15, 20
yards right of the hole. Standing there, "I don't think this is enough unless I hit a
shot that doesn't turn too much." I actually aimed to the right of the hole, and hit
a little bit of a cut, then watched the ball go straight, straight, straight, then fall.
When it hit the green, it was a little right of the hole. But with the fall of the ball,
it ended up left the hole with a nice uphill putt. It's shots like those when -- normally
you'll aim away to one side or the other, play some type of spin in. Today a lot of times
you'd aim way to the side like that hole, play an opposite spin. Still just to keep it
from getting too far going the wrong way.  
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: Thank you.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT