MISSISSIPPI GULF RESORT CLASSIC PRESENTED BY C SPIRE
March 21, 2014
Duffy Waldorf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Duffy, 3‑under par 69, couple thoughts about the round and how the course played?
DUFFY WALDORF:   I thought the course played pretty difficult.   Wind picked up there at the end and a lot of good, tough pins.   I played well in the middle of my round, I got it going. 
I struggled early. Really just didn't knock the ball close and had some 3‑putts.   I 3‑putted the last hole and 3‑putted a couple early in the round, but when I got the ball close, I was able to make birdie, so six birdies was a nice‑‑ that was a big bonus for today. 

Q.   Was there any long putts in there, any real highlights to the round? 
DUFFY WALDORF:   Well, gosh, I'd like to say I was making a bunch of putts but really came from hitting the ball close.   I think my highlight was a par 5 on the back 13, I chipped it a foot away from a tough chip position.   So I had a long chip and chipped it a foot away.   That kind of helped me out. 
Probably the hole before, 13, or No. 12, I hit a beautiful wedge shot in there about a foot behind the hole and almost made it. 

Q.   Has to feel good coming out here first day and to be right there in contention; I know that putt just slid by on that last hole. 
DUFFY WALDORF:   Well, I mean, the greens‑‑ I think the greens are very difficult out here.     It's totally different than what we've played so far this year.   They have quite a bit of grain.   They have a lot of slope and so you just hopefully get yourself some good putts out of that.   Obviously a very tricky putt on the first putt, I needed to get closer.   That's the key out here is getting the ball in position where you can make the putt.

Q.   What do you think might be the score you might need to be? 
DUFFY WALDORF:   Well, it's hard to say.   The weather is definitely forecast to be changing so it's really hard to know.   Just have to go out there and play each day and take what you can that day.   I obviously got off to a bad start today, so I'm happy to get in at 3‑under.   If the conditions got nice, you might need lower scores.   Champions Tour, you always shoot for 15‑under.   I don't think we're going to make it there this week, but you never know.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT