NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: PENGUINS VS SENATORS
May 24, 2017
Matt Cullen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (No microphone)?
MATT CULLEN: Well, we've been there before.  We've gone through this.  We know what to expect out of our group.  We have a comfort level with our plan and the way that we need to play.  These are the fun games to play.  So as a group, we go into it with a lot of confidence, knowing that we're going to need our best game and expecting that we'll bring it.
Q. What is the psychology of a Game 7?  How is it different from every other game that you've played when you're going into it?
MATT CULLEN: Well, I think just, obviously, the finality of it.  These are the games, when you're a kid growing up, that you're playing in the backyard, the Game 7s and that.  So for us as players, this is what it's all about.  It's a different level of intensity.  It's a different level of excitement.  Obviously, when you get it, you move on.
Q. When there's a chance to advance to the Stanley Cup Final at stake, does that add to it?
MATT CULLEN: Yeah, no question.  You know, it's relatively fresh in our mind from last year.  We understand what's at stake here, and like I said, we go into it with confidence knowing that we expect everybody to bring their best game.
Q. Matt, can you recall all your Game 7s?
MATT CULLEN: Yeah.  Oh, yeah.  Yeah, you don't forget them.  They do, they stand out.  It's just a different feel than any other game you play.  They're as fun as it gets.
Q. Is there one that stands out the most maybe?
MATT CULLEN: Well, they all do honestly.  They all do.  But in 2006, winning the Cup in Game 7 was the one that stands out probably the most for me.
Q. You set up the first two goals in that game.  Were you flying that night?
MATT CULLEN: Yeah, I was -- I'll never forget that one.  That was fun.  That was a special one.  That's the ultimate.
Q. Every time you were winning in a Game 7, is there a feeling that you felt before the game as a group?  You said yourself, oh, okay, we're ready for this one.  And when you were on the losing side maybe, you felt something different before the game.
MATT CULLEN: Yeah, going into them, I think -- in my experiences, we've had that good feeling, and there's a different energy in the room, there's a confidence in what you're going to do as a team.  This group especially has stood out to me with the feel that we go into a Game 7 with that confidence, with that hunger to go get it.
Q. When you play in repeat scenarios, like a Game 7 of the Eastern Conference Final for the second year in a row, does it give you an appreciation for how hard it is to repeat as Stanley Cup champions?
MATT CULLEN: Yeah, it does.  I would say this entire playoff has given us all an appreciation of what a challenge it is to get back to the top.  A lot of good players, a lot of good teams.  But it's awfully tight.  It's always tight.  It seems like every series is such a challenge.
Q. Matt, describe what it feels like to have, I guess, a security blanket like Sid in these situations here, where he's won everything, as recently as last year.
MATT CULLEN: Yeah, he's an exceptional leader.  Obviously, his play speaks for itself.  He's unbelievable.  But he seems to rise up in these occasions, and we've seen it.  His play elevates when the stakes are highest.
Q. Is he the ultimate player you want on your team if you need to play a Game 7?
MATT CULLEN: For me, yeah.
Q. Matt, last year's Game 7, I imagine there was a question on your part whether that might be the last game of your career.  Is that a thought that crosses your mind again?
MATT CULLEN: Yeah, every time.
Q. You guys have played back-to-back seven-game series.  I wonder how grueling is that?  Do you have a feel for the room?  How much energy do you guys have right now?
MATT CULLEN: I think our energy is good.  I do.  We've been playing four lines throughout the entire playoffs, and obviously we have some different bumps and bruises, but that's par for the course at this point.  But I would say that our energy level as a group is pretty good.  I was impressed with it last night.  I thought we brought a lot of energy to the game, and I would expect the same tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT