NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HURRICANES v PENGUINS
May 20, 2009
Matt Cullen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. (Indiscernible) did he have too many chances?   
 MATT CULLEN: Yeah, maybe, but at the time it was one of those things where it's bang, bang, and when you have guys that can make those plays and nice passes, those guys make them.   
 If it works out it's unbelievable and it's a huge momentum swing and your team's going the right way. Otherwise, if not, it doesn't look great, but you've just got to play.  
  
  Q. You guys went back and looked to the video coming out of here Monday night. The general mood was of our Game 1s this was the best of them. Did you still feel that way after looking at the video?   
 MATT CULLEN: Well, yeah, but our other two Game 1s were terrible. So I don't know if that's really saying a lot. You know, we played a little better. We played okay.   
 It's Conference Finals and we need to have our A-effort every night. So we're not happy with the way things went. But hopefully we can take care of business tomorrow.  
  
  Q. You played a big role in shutting Sidney Crosby down. You kept him two shots on net. Are these positives that you can build off of in Game 2?   
 MATT CULLEN: Oh, I don't know. He's going to get his opportunities. You know, so we expect nothing but great hockey out of him as he's done all playoffs. So I don't think you can really rest on that fact. Obviously, he's going to play well.   
 For us, we know they have some unbelievable players on their side, especially up front. We just have to play our style of hockey. It's one of those things you can't get caught up worrying about one guy because it changes the whole game. We just have to play the way we play and not worry about it.  
  
  Q. I know you'd rather not have to get back into Game 2 and win it because you're down a game already. But what is that equation that you guys buy into that seems to happen all the time?   
 MATT CULLEN: We just have to win. That's the approach that we're taking. We just have to play our best. And maybe play a little more desperate. Obviously, we'd like to see that desperation every game. But for some reason we haven't gotten it done in Game 1. But we'll have to find a way to get Game 2.   
  
  Q. Cam Ward is definitely a big part of that equation too in games?  
 MATT CULLEN: Oh, yeah. He's been great for us. He's the reason we're here. I don't think there's any secret there. He's been so big in every playoff series he's played in. Hopefully he keeps going. But we have a lot of confidence in him and the play he plays.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT