LONDON 2012 OLYMPIC GAMES
July 28, 2012
Anne Keothavong
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/A. Keothavong
  4‑6, 6‑3, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Was that the case of her picking her game up the last two sets or do you feel you let it slip a bit?
ANNE KEOTHAVONG:   Uhm, I thought I got off to a great start.   I thought I was playing some great tennis in the first set and outplayed her there. 
Yeah, she did get better.   I mean, she started making a lot more first serves.   And, you know, she was hitting it pretty deep.   She missed less. 
You know, it was pretty tough for me.   You know, I don't feel like that was a match I lost.   I felt like she beat me.   She got better.   Yeah, she was the better player. 

Q.   Putting the results to one side, if you can, how would you sum up your Olympics experience as a whole?
ANNE KEOTHAVONG:   Being out on Centre Court, I mean, that was amazing.   It wasn't full, but the people who were there made plenty of noise.   You know, this is my first Olympics, and that kind of support, you know, that inspires me to want to get out there and, you know, work for the opportunities to be out there again come Wimbledon next year. 
Uhm, yeah, I mean, it's been a great, great feeling to be part of Team GB, and I couldn't be any more proud to wear red, white and blue. 

Q.   Not meant to be a girly question, but the question of the red, white and blue, from the kit point of view, what do you think about the kit?
ANNE KEOTHAVONG:   Yeah, I guess it was comfortable (laughter).   It was red, white and blue.   I like to wear red, white and blue. 

Q.   You've talked about sort of the Olympic experience.   Now you've been through it.   Are you able to sum up the feeling of what it is to be an Olympian?
ANNE KEOTHAVONG:   Yeah.   I think, you know, it's something I've worked so hard towards my whole career.   You know, ever since it was announced London would be hosting the 2012 Olympics, it's always been a goal of mine. 
The Olympics is something every young kid grows up watching, following.   For me to be part of Team GB, I mean, one out of 542 athletes, that's a real minority here in Great Britain if you think about the general population.   It's something I'll have for the rest of my life. 
Like I said, you know, I couldn't be any more proud to represent Great Britain.   The support I had out there was amazing.   I definitely want to kind of experience that again come Wimbledon on Centre Court. 

Q.   Although you weren't able to go to the opening ceremony, did you watch it?
ANNE KEOTHAVONG:   Yeah, I watched every minute of it.   It was so good.   I mean, it was amazing just to think how creative it was, how it covered pretty much everything, how funny it was.   You know, personally my favorite parts were seeing Her Majesty the Queen come out.   Initially I thought, That can't be her, but it was. 
And Mr. Bean, I mean, it was really British.   It was funny just chatting with some of the other girls.   I asked, Did you actually get it?   It might be lost on a few foreign people.   I think everyone enjoyed it and it was a great show.

Q.   Do you think it sort of summed up the spirit of the Olympics for you as an athlete?
ANNE KEOTHAVONG:   I think so.   You know, it showcased what Great Britain is all about, celebrating everyone, uniting everyone.   You know, I think that's what the Olympics is about. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT