WIMBLEDON
June 23, 2009
Anne Keothavong
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. MAYR/A. Keothavong
  7-5, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Seemed to be going so well.   
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: Uhm, yeah. I guess, you know -- I guess -- you know, I felt like I was on the way to kind of winning that first set and doing what I had to do, and then it all just kind of seemed to just kind of fall apart.   
 You know, she hung in there well and, uhm, you know, the errors crept in in my game. Yeah, it just wasn't very good.   
  
  Q. Did you feel it on court? Could you feel it falling apart?  
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: Yeah, you know, it's been a disappointing grass court season for me. I just feel today I was -- you know, when it got tight I got tentative.   
 You know, in that second set, you know, I didn't really push her or anything. I was, you know, just pushing the ball.   
 And, you know, it's just kind of what happens.   
  
  Q. You were on Court 4 today. A lot of people very close. Do you think perhaps you might have been on Court 1 or one of the show courts?  
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: I didn't really know what court I was going to go on. I found out last night I was on Court 4. That was fine. You know, I guess every court is the same size. You've still got to put the ball in the court wherever you're playing.   
 You know, I felt like I had good support out there. It's just a shame I couldn't do anything better.   
  
  Q. Are you fully fit?  
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: I've been struggling with some niggles, but that's no excuse.  
  
  Q. You say a disappointing grass court season. Obviously is it more disappointing because everyone has seen your results over the past 12 months, and thought great. You haven't really been able to show them.   
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: Of course. Yeah, it has. There's no, you know, way around it. It's been disappointing. You know, I have higher expectations for myself as well.   
 I feel like I'm a better tennis player, well, now compared to where I was this time last year. Uhm, but, you know, maybe that match in Paris actually dented my confidence more than I realized at the time.   
 You know, every week, Birmingham, Eastbourne, here, I've always been on the back foot. I haven't really been imposing myself or putting my opponents under enough pressure.   
  
  Q. This is not an accusation, but do you feel as though you've let a few people down today?  
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: I feel like I've let myself down more than anything. You know, Wimbledon is such a special tournament to me. And, you know, this year especially, I just felt, you know, I've overcome so much just to get where I am (tearing up.)  
  
  Q. Did you put more pressure on yourself, do you think?   
 THE MODERATOR: Can we stop for a few minutes.   
 (Pause in interview.)   
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: Sorry.   
  
  Q. What is your next step from here? What are your plans for the next few weeks? Are you playing the doubles?  
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: Yeah, I've got doubles with Sarah Borwell, and hopefully mixed doubles with Ross Hutchins. You know, I enjoy playing doubles, so hopefully that will help.   
  
  Q. The great thing about where you are in the world rankings now is you've got big tournaments that you go into. It's not like two years ago where maybe you had to wait around for Wimbledon to have another chance.   
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: Yeah, definitely. You know, I do feel like I've come, you know, such a long way. You know, I've worked hard to get to where I'm at. I think I've shown, you know, lots of people that I am capable of playing better tennis.   
 And, you know, although right now it's really hard to look at all the positives, I've still got to look -- got a lot to look forward to in the summer, you know, and have another bash at it.   
  
  Q. The way the Brits are going out today, it's shaping up to be a pretty dark day for British tennis at Wimbledon. Do you feel sort of a collective responsibility, or are you solely focused on your own results?  
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: You know, I can't speak for the other girls. I can only focus on my own tennis. You know, that's hard enough as it is.   
 You know, the other girls, I'm sure, have tried their hardest. You can't guarantee the results at the end of the day, but I think you can definitely guarantee that all the British girls have tried, you know, 110%.   
  
  Q. A lot of fans will look at the world of tennis and say, Hey, pretty glamorous; chance to travel the world; play Wimbledon; pretty good money. Is it a lot harder than people realize?  
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: I think so, yeah. As women, to be doing what we're doing, you have to be pretty tough women, ambitious and determined. You know, that's me as a person. You know, you do it because you want to do it and you feel you can improve, you know, get further up the rankings.   
 But there is a lot of hard work behind the scenes. You know, to put yourself through it, being away from home over 30 weeks of the year, you know, sacrificing, whether it's your social life or family time, you know, there's a lot you give up to do what you do.   
 But, uhm, you do it for the love of the game, I guess.   
  
  Q. In the end it's worth it?  
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: I hope so. I'm figuring it out (laughter).   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT