WIMBLEDON
June 21, 2004
Anne Keothavong
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  May I present Anne Keothavong. 


Q.  Is that the best you've ever played on grass? 

ANNE KEOTHAVONG:  I don't know.  It was one of my better matches on grass, yeah, that's for sure.  No, I'm happy with the way it went today, I think.  It was a good match. 

Q.  The score looked one-sided, but it could have been different if you didn't get that break early in the second set. 

ANNE KEOTHAVONG:  Yeah, that's right.  I think the rain delay helped me enormously.  It gave me a chance to just calm down and regroup.  I was pretty nervous when I went out there, which is understandable, I guess.  But, yeah, it did help me.  I managed to calm down and just go back out there and play. 

Q.  Did you have the feeling that she was likely to make more mistakes than you, if you could just keep the ball tight?

ANNE KEOTHAVONG:  It's the first time we've played against one another.  And she's a pretty solid player.  You know, she's solid from the back, and she's quick around the court.  But, you know, I thought if I could just concentrate and focus on my own game, then it would go my way. 

Q.  You said recently it was part of your plan to try and attack a little more.  Did you actually do that today? 

ANNE KEOTHAVONG:  I think, yeah, you know, I was more aggressive than she was.  I was at the court, going for my shots more than her.  But at the same time I managed to stay solid and hang in there on the tougher points. 

Q.  Was that your first win at Wimbledon in singles?

ANNE KEOTHAVONG:  In a senior event, yeah. 

Q.  Third year?

ANNE KEOTHAVONG:  This was my fourth year in the main event.

Q.  Did you think this would be the year you could do it?

ANNE KEOTHAVONG:  This is the best I felt coming into the tournament.  When I compare it to the last few years, I feel like I'm a better player, and also older and, you know, more mature with the way I play.  But it's nice to finally get a win under my belt here.

Q.  Is Tony Pickard still advising you?

ANNE KEOTHAVONG:  Yeah, Tony still advises me.  Colin Beech is my coach.  He'll travel with me, but Tony is still very much involved.

Q.  Did he have a lot of input into this match?

ANNE KEOTHAVONG:  Yeah.

Q.  Did you have a chat beforehand?

ANNE KEOTHAVONG:  Yeah.  I spoke to him, I spoke to Colin.  Yeah, they've both helped me enormously. 

Q.  Do you feel that's the best win of your career?

ANNE KEOTHAVONG:  I guess it is.  I think she's the highest-ranked player I've beaten, so yeah.

Q.  You've been training,  I gather, in the States for a while. 

ANNE KEOTHAVONG:  I was. 

Q.  Has that made a difference?

ANNE KEOTHAVONG:  You know, it was different, and it opened my eyes up to a different way of training.  I had a good time and it was a good experience there.  But I'm now based back home in London. 

Q.  How important was Hingis in all of that?

ANNE KEOTHAVONG:  She was great.  She helped all of us girls.  She gave a talk, any questions, anything we wanted to ask her, she was happy to answer, just about the tour, how to deal with everything.  And, yeah, she was really good fun.

Q.  What amount of time did you spend with her?

ANNE KEOTHAVONG:  We spent on court with her, off court with her.  On court, she's very good.  I mean, she's still a great player.  I mean she pretty much duffed all of us up pretty much still.  Off court, she was really relaxed.  Everyone got on well with her.   It was just nice to have someone who has been so high, you know, at the top end of the game around to help and talk to us. 

Q.  She hasn't had any input?  You haven't had any contact with her in the buildup to Wimbledon, have you?

ANNE KEOTHAVONG:  No, no, no.  You know, I'm sure -- I haven't seen her around yet this week.  It would be nice to catch up, you know, when we see her.  But for the camp in America, she was very good.

Q.  How do you feel about the potential spotlight that is now going to come on you as the next British hope, female?

ANNE KEOTHAVONG:  I mean, I don't know, you know.  It's been an ongoing thing with myself, Elena Baltacha, Jane O'Donoghue.  We've all managed to push each other and we're all doing well.  I think the women's side of the game in this country is definitely going in the right direction.  You might look at our rankings and say, "Well, you know, this isn't good enough," whatever.  But we know that and we're trying our hardest out there.  You know, we're all positive and we all know if we work hard enough, we can do it. 

Q.  How far do you think you can go in the tournament?

ANNE KEOTHAVONG:  It's silly for me to, you know, think about that.  It's just one match at a time.  The next match, I don't know who I play yet.  They haven't played.  But, you know, just one match at a time is good enough for me.

Q.  Have you seen this 100,000 pounds put up by the insurance company. 

ANNE KEOTHAVONG:  Nice offer, isn't it?  Yeah, it's a good incentive for all of us girls to do well here.  We all want to do well here anyway, whether there was that amount of money sitting there for one of us to take or whatever.  We all want to perform well here at Wimbledon. 

Q.  So fourth round could be a target?

ANNE KEOTHAVONG:  Yeah.  I mean, it would be great.  But, again, it's just one match at a time.  Nobody wants to look too far ahead. 

Q.  Where did you start playing, at school in Hackney?

ANNE KEOTHAVONG:  I was born in Hackney.  I started playing tennis when I was seven.  I played short tennis before, it's just something my parents introduced us to to keep us occupied.  When I was younger, I spent a lot of time playing at Highbury Fields.  Yeah, they had a good setup there during the summer. 

Q.  You were involved with the LTA at a fairly young age?

ANNE KEOTHAVONG:  Yeah.  They helped me from the age of 10.  They helped fund my coaching.  So, yeah. 

Q.  Do you still go back to Highbury Fields?

ANNE KEOTHAVONG:  Yeah, I still play there.  There's quite a few parks round where I live.  There's Highbury Fields, there's Clissold Park, Hackney Downs.  You know, a tennis court is a tennis court.  It's convenient.

Q.  Have you used them to prepare for her?

ANNE KEOTHAVONG:  No.  I mean, I've been trying to play on grass as much as I can while the weather's been good.  No, I did play with my little brother there a week ago. 

Q.  Clissold Park?

ANNE KEOTHAVONG:  Clissold Park.

Q.  What's your brother's name?

ANNE KEOTHAVONG:  Mark.

Q.  When were you training with Martina Hingis?

ANNE KEOTHAVONG:  That was in December when we had an adidas camp in Phoenix.  She was there for 10 days with us. 

Q.  Did you use anything that she told you about how to cope with the tour in coping with today's match?

ANNE KEOTHAVONG:  Yeah, I recall her, you know, just tells us to try and enjoy it.  I think that was probably the best advice you can give to anyone.  You can get caught up with whatever else is going on, but just, you know, take a step back and enjoy it.

Q.  And you did today?

ANNE KEOTHAVONG:  Yeah.  Once I got going, yeah. 

Q.  Is your father Vietnamese originally?

ANNE KEOTHAVONG:  No, Laotian.  My mother is from Laos as well.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT