WIMBLEDON
June 22, 2011
Anne Keothavong
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. KVITOVA/A. Keothavong
  6-2, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Question, please. 

 Q. Tell us how difficult that sort of ranks in terms of the matches you've played here. 
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: I thought Petra played a really good match today. She's definitely one of the in-form players and a favorite for this tournament.
 But I felt like the first couple of games were good. You know, first set was good. I just didn't, you know, take the opportunities that I had, and she kind of ran away with it. 
 But she played a really good match.

 Q. You had a breakpoint, didn't you, in the second game. Did you think that was maybe a turning point?
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: Um, yeah, there were various chances here and there, but it's very tough when you're playing an opponent who just swings away and goes for everything.
 You know, it's hard to know what to expect. She was serving well, hitting her spots better than I was, and my serve let me down a little bit today. But she was putting me under a lot pressure, so it makes you think out there.

 Q. She hits it hard, doesn't she, from the back of the court and moves around pretty quick as well. 
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: Yeah, she is definitely in the top 10 for a reason. Even before the tournament started, definitely she had a good run here last year; definitely one of the favorites for the tournament.
 If she keeps going like that, I don't see why not.

 Q. Do you think she could go on and have potential to get to the final?
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: I think she proved how well she could play last year. She's had a pretty good year so far, so, yeah, it's all up for grabs, I guess. 

 Q. In terms of you said yesterday that you're playing as if it could have been your last Wimbledon. Do you think you'll be back here next year?
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: I hope so. You know, I've just got to look after my body. At the moment I'm still enjoying it.
 You know, if, yeah, next year I'm feeling the same, I'll still be here.

 Q. Does looking at people like Kimiko when she comes back and takes Venus almost nearly all the way, does that give you fresh inspiration?
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: I don't think I'll be playing tennis at 40, but, yeah, she's definitely an incredible role model for lots of women out there. She's in fantastic shape for a woman of her age.
 Yeah, not just Kimiko. Venus is still out there. Francesca Schiavone, Na Li, Serena. There are a lot of girls who are late 20s, 30s who are still out there at the top of the game. I don't think age a such a big issue.
 Players are definitely developing later and maturing, and with experience are becoming better tennis players.

 Q. You said you would carry on even though your knees were knackered. You said that wouldn't prove a barrier. Do you feel all right, that you can carry on physically?
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: Yeah, I have to adapt my training routine. I've been through two serious knee injuries. It's not easy. Not many people have been through that.
 So, you know, the fact that I've come back twice already shows that I'm a pretty tough competitor and resilient. If someone can come back from those kinds of injuries twice, I think that says a lot about that person.

 Q. And the fire inside you, there's still the desire to play? 
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: Yeah, still here and still going. I'll be back inside the top 100 after this tournament, so I can look ahead to the US Open. That's another opportunity at a Grand Slam main draw. 
 And this summer, it's all to play for.

 Q. You mentioned ranking. Obviously a positive thing for Wimbledon this year is a first-round win means that you go up in the rankings. Can you talk about the work that you do all year around to maintain that ranking which perhaps the British public don't know about?
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: Yeah, tennis is a sport you can compete at a tournament every week of the year if you want to. It's not just about Wimbledon. 
 But unfortunately, you know, or fortunately, that's what the British public wants to see, is British players doing well here at Wimbledon. All of us players are aware that. 
 But you've got to put everything into perspective. It's not just about this fortnight. We're playing tournaments week in and week out where we're grinding it out, slogging it and, competing against the very best players, and it's not easy.
 If you're putting yourself on the line like that week in, week out, it takes a lot of dedication.

 Q. And assuming that you have a good year fitness- and injury-wise, what would be a good year between now and coming here next year for you?
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: Um, you know, I've competed here at Wimbledon on merit over the last couple of years. I haven't needed a wildcard. I'm up there with the best players.
 You know, the other players are aware of that. I don't see why I can't get back to where I was pre-knee surgery. That's what keeps me motivated, because I know I can still improve. There's still more I can achieve in the game.

 Q. It's a little bit further ahead, but has it been explained how the British sports will work out for the Olympics?
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: Yes, all down to ranking.

 Q. Is that big motivation?
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: Absolutely. I've said it before, I've never been part of an Olympic team, and that's one thing that would mean the absolute world to me. I take great pride in representing Great Britain in Fed Cup, and if I made the Olympic team, that would just be the best achievement.

 Q. Can you explain the setup? 
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: Straight down the WTA rankings. 

 Q. Let me ask you finally about Laura and Heather. Laura made it through; heather lost. Is that good indication for the state of the game?
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: Yeah, Heather and Laura we all know have heaps of potential. They're still very young, very raw, and they've got a lot to learn, but they've got bright careers ahead of them. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT