AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 13, 2011
Anne Keothavong
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Two matches in one day is a bit tough, isn't it? There was a symmetry to the results of them, wasn't there? A win this morning, and you presumably felt the pace a bit?
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: Yeah. I felt like I played a good match this morning, and the wind picked up this afternoon. But I thought Mirjana played a very good match. You know, she was able to hit through the wind better than me. 
 And, yeah, I just struggled with a few little things, which I couldn't do in my second match like I did in my first match.

 Q. Is that a question of mobility or stamina or technical things?
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: Well, I didn't serve as well this afternoon. I found it really difficult with the wind. Then I just wasn't sharp enough after -- yeah, after my serve for that next ball. 
 But, you know, it's -- I have had two good matches here, two good wins, where that's given me a little bit of confidence at least going into Wimbledon.
 So, yeah, still some good stuff to be taken away from today.

 Q. How much time was there between the two matches today? Not very long, was it?
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: No, it wasn't very long. I don't know, because I don't even think my mum realized I was on court when I was playing. She wasn't there. 

 Q. Still watching the other match?
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: Yeah, I don't know. Two hours perhaps, if that? 

 Q. Couldn't be much more. Just the weather? Can't do anything about it. 
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: Yeah, can't really do anything about it. Everyone is in the same boat and matches have to get played.

 Q. Good opponent, as well, first round. 
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: Yeah, like I said, Mirjana played well this afternoon. She was able to hit through the wind better than I was.

 Q. You got your entry to Wimbledon?
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: Yeah. It's another year in Wimbledon on merit, so I'm pleased about that. I've got my spot there. Every year I say I want to do well, so hopefully this year it will be better than last year. 
 You know, I'm going into it with the best of intentions, you know, feeling pleased that I have had two good matches here under my belt. So yeah.

 Q. Does it take the pressure off you a bit that you're not at the top of the British ranking? Heather Watson and... 
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: Heather and Bali are doing well. I just need to focus on what I'm doing and just take care of what's in my control.
 You know, I know I can still play better tennis. That's why I'm still playing. You know, if you don't feel you can improve, if you don't feel you can climb up the rankings further, then there's not really a lot of point being out there. 
 But I still believe I can play better. I have had some tough matches in the last couple of months where it hasn't quite gone my way, but it's not because I feel like I've been playing bad tennis. It's just the way it goes.

 Q. What's the worst part about last year? I'm sorry I wasn't there. Worst part about last year, was it that you were actually that close? You were close to winning a match at Wimbledon and getting a bit of wind in your sails, weren't you?
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: Yeah, last year, you know, I was coming back after a long layoff after my knee surgery, so it was tough in many ways, because when you're coming back after a long period out like that, your confidence is lower, you still -- you know, your body is still adjusting week in and week out. 
 You know, it was frustrating because when I left the game, you know, I was at a very good ranking. I was playing in all good events. You have to start from scratch. 
 I'm still working on everything. You know, I'm definitely not where I was before I got injured, and I'm not -- you know, ranking-wise it's obvious I'm not where I want to be, but I'm still working hard chipping away. Yeah, looking to improve on it.

 Q. Would it be fair to say that when you climbed the ranks two or three years ago you seemed to come on in leaps and bounds, and this year you had to claw yourself back to a certain extent?
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: Physically my body, after two knee surgeries, isn't the same and it has a not good effect on other parts of your body. So week in and week out you're constantly rehabbing something. 
 I can't remember the last time I was completely 100% pain-free playing a tennis match or not on anti-inflammatories or something like that or not in the physio's room.
 It's just become part of my routine now, and that's something you just accept and find ways to deal with it.

 Q. If I could grant you one wish like the Genie from the lamp for Wimbledon this year, other than the obvious, what would it be?
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: Um, win. You know, I don't care how I do it. I just want to -- you know, every week, go into every tournament, you can't expect to play your best tennis every week, but you've got to find a way to win. 
 If it's winning ugly, winning pretty, it doesn't matter as long as it's your name on the scoreboard with the W.

 Q. Because last year you were sort of, for two-and-a-half sets, to a large extent you were playing above yourself almost, weren't you? Whereas the year before and the year before that I think you perhaps didn't play in a way that reflected your ranking, and that sort of showed everybody what you can do?
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: At Wimbledon? I don't think I was necessarily playing above myself last year. I think tennis -- you know, I'm capable of producing, you know, more than in other weeks. But as a British player you just get judged on Wimbledon.
 Obviously, you know, you go in and you want to show people how well you can play and what you do the rest of the year, but sometimes it doesn't happen.

 Q. Is that the most frustrating thing for you, though, that -- you're right; British players, whether we like it or not, are judged on their performances at Wimbledon because there are 40,000 people in the ground every day and millions more watching on TV. Is it a bit unfair to sort of judge you on that fortnight alone when you've actually sort of traveled tens of thousands of miles every year to work out challenger tournaments and make progress in decent-ranking tournaments and people hardly bat an eye at it?
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: Yeah, but, you know, I've been around long enough now to kind of know that's the way it rolls, and unfortunately you can't change the opinion of some people. You know, people expect British players to do well at Wimbledon. Everyone knows that.
 Every player goes in with the best intentions. Everyone's trying their butt off to do the best they can. You know, if it's not the result, if it's not the right performance on that given day, then you just have to deal with it and move on.

 Q. Can you be British No. 1 again?
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: I believe so, yeah. 

 Q. Have you given yourself any targets? Not necessarily in terms of where you want to get to, but how long you want to give it, particularly that you are in pain most weeks?
 ANNE KEOTHAVONG: I just take each week as it comes. Between me and my coaches, we know what we're working on, what I want to achieve out there each week, and, yeah, I don't know. Who knows.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT