NASCAR PRESEASON THUNDER TESTING
January 13, 2014
Matt Crafton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MATT HUMPHREY:   We are joined by 2013 NASCAR Camping World Truck Series champion, Matt Crafton, driver of the No.88 Menard's Toyota Tundra for ThorSport Racing.   Talk about your general thoughts heading into the NextEra Energy Resources 250 and just the thoughts you get when you drive into the Speedway.   
MATT CRAFTON:   Oh, I mean, it's always awesome coming to Daytona.   It definitely has the most history as we recall it.   It's definitely, like I said, coming through the tunnel here is very cool.   
The race, I mean, it's a lot of fun, but you never know.   It's a crap shoot, to be totally honest.   To win some of these races, you've got to be very, very lucky and be in the right position at the right time.   We were very close in Talladega and we're fairly close here, but our teammates won both of them, so we should have pretty good trucks to race with.   We don't have any speed.   It's very consistent with what we've had in the past.   We're a little off in single runs on speed, but that don't mean anything.   
   
 Q.   You talked about coming through the tunnel.   Growing up in California, did you ever think as a kid racing in California that one day that would happen?   
MATT CRAFTON:   No, I dreamed about it, but do you think it's going to be a reality?   It's just always a hope or a prayer that you could possibly get here and be able to race here, and now that I'm doing it, it's just a blessing to be able to do what I do and get paid to do what you love to do.   I've got the best job in the world.  
   
 Q.   Are you relieved about the rules to ban tandem drafting?   
MATT CRAFTON:   No, I'm actually disappointed in it to be totally honest.   I think the tandem deal, you can get away from people.   But now you're going to have those packs of 20 trucks.   It's going to be crazy to watch, but I think that now you're going to be able to bump draft, and that's one of the harder things to do is trying to judge it, is that guy getting into the corner because when you're sitting behind somebody you're going to hit him and you can't really judge when you hit them because if you're getting close to them you can't judge when you're getting ready to go in the corner, and if you do hit somebody it might just start turning the wheel left to go into the corner and you're going to cause a big wreck.  
I mean, there's going to be goods and there's going to be bads, like I said, but it will be good racing.   
   
 Q.   Have you done any drafting?  
MATT CRAFTON:   No, we've just done all single stuff right now.   
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on the new truck; is there any feel so far this morning or what are your thoughts?   You're coming off a championship and then they change everything on you.   What's the new truck like?  
MATT CRAFTON:   Right now you really can't tell by yourself.   They just drive so, so good when you're by yourself.   You're just out there wide open and driving realistically just one hand.   I think the biggest thing is when we get them in packs to see how different they're going to handle.   It'll be nice to see how many people will actually get in a fair pack.   There isn't a whole lot of trucks here right now to get in a fairly big pack.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
MATT CRAFTON:   I think it's going to be who can get ahead of the game.   It's just that way every year, but now that we have the new trucks, it's going to be‑‑ I mean, getting in the wind tunnel, going to test at places we're going to race, and whoever can get that little step ahead is going to be the team to beat without a doubt.   We've worked really hard and been paying attention to the wind tunnel stuff and trying to figure out what this thing wants compared to what the other Toyota Tundra wanted.   
   
 Q.   What's your reaction to no single‑car qualifying anymore in trucks and Nationwide?   
MATT CRAFTON:   It's going to be interesting.   I mean, I think it's actually going to‑‑ it's going to be like bump qualifying if you want to put it.   I think it's going to be very, very cool.  
I said to some of the guys on the team, they're like, I want to see whose truck by itself is the fastest truck for two laps.   I think it's going to be very, very interesting for the fans.   
   
 Q.   I know you haven't drafted just yet, but do you have any concern or worry about how the bumpers might match up with the new body style?   
MATT CRAFTON:   No.   I mean, I haven't really looked at it and got that far into it.   But I think they're going to line up better than they have in the past, but I'll tell you when I get hit for the first time how they line up.   Like I said, we have no idea.   Right now it's sitting at static ride height.   It looks like they might line up, but when we're going around the racetrack, (inaudible), so we'll see.  
   
 Q.   Can you size up your competition this year as defending champion?   Obviously you'll probably compete against your teammate, but all those young guys, rookies now, have one year of experience and they're probably coming after you?  
MATT CRAFTON:   Oh, yeah, without a doubt.   There's still a really good group.   I know we lost Ty and James, but like I said, Johnny and that group, they're going to be tough.   Jeb is going to be very good.   He was second in points for most of the season, so he'll be tough.   He's gotten that much better and smarter, and Blaney will be tough, Bubba, he'll be tough.   There's definitely going to be a good group of trucks out there for sure.   
MATT HUMPHREY:   If you win the 2014 NASCAR Camping World Truck Series championship, will you take the trophy again in one piece and hoist it above your head like you did in 2013?   
MATT CRAFTON:   Thanks, guys.   Nobody told me that you're supposed to pick it up in two pieces.   That thing was over a hundred pounds.   Like I said, it was heavy.   I could lift it.   But once I got it to my forehead, it starts rocking.   I'm like, uh‑oh, I don't want to be first the champion that's going to drop this thing.   I did look like a fool.   But nobody told me, and everybody in the media center made fun of me afterwards at Homestead.   I'm like, I think I should have just got the memo you just pick up the top piece.   I looked at pictures of past champions and they only had the top piece, but I was the only one that had the whole thing.   
MATT HUMPHREY:   Good luck to you, and thanks for joining us today.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT