NASCAR CAMPING WORLD TRUCK SERIES: FORD ECOBOOST 200
November 17, 2017
Matt Crafton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: We're now joined by our sixth‑place finisher, driver of the No.88, Matt Crafton. Matt, obviously a valiant effort this evening. Talk us through the race from your perspective. 
MATT CRAFTON: Well, I thought we were really, really good. We dropped the green, and as bad as we were today during practice, when we took off, it was like, whoa, we've got something for these guys, and about halfway, three quarters of the way through the run we started getting freer and freer and freer and then just lost all forward drive off the corner. Made an adjustment and really kind of numbed to it, and the last adjustment made it a little bit better, and then about halfway, three quarter way through the run it just lost all drive again. 
All in all, can't thank these guys enough, everybody back at the shop. They work so hard on these trucks to give us this opportunity that Duke and Rhonda Thorson, Menard's, and it wouldn't be possible without everybody that‑‑ I mean, starting at the top with Duke and Rhonda and Menard's. 

Q. Between the second stage and the final stage, your crew seemed a little frazzled. They couldn't figure out what you needed to do to get the speed because they just expect you to be up front. What was going on with the truck? What were you feeling that they couldn't get a grasp on? 
MATT CRAFTON: Some of the things we thought earlier today actually. We rolled off the trailer it was the same way. We could get into the corner decent and just before the center of the corner it would just step sideways and have zero drive off the corner. Made a lot of changes to qualify and actually made it tight to qualify, and then we went to race, and it went. Just was sideways, and we could not get the handle on that thing for whatever reason. 

Q. It sucks to lose‑‑ I mean, No.2 is the No.1 loser and all that. What positives can you take out not just of this championship but your whole season as you move forward into next year? 
MATT CRAFTON: I mean, we definitely had some ups and downs, and we had some ups this year. We definitely should have won more than one race without a doubt. There was a couple races where we were leading, St.Louis where we were leading and the guy is sitting on pit road and the yellow came out and still had a late‑race caution and got beat on that. But we'll be just fine in 2018. I mean, a lot of momentum. 

Q. You talked about being so loose that it just negatively affected your night, but naturally you've raced here 16 times; is there like a sweet spot of looseness that you need to have in order to generate the proper speed out there? And how far do you think your truck was over that? 
MATT CRAFTON: I would say on a scale of 1 to 10 I was about an 8 loose, and you need maybe about a 1 loose, so I was way too loose tonight. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT