NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: RED WINGS v FLYERS
May 31, 1997
John LeClair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  John, how much was it their fore-checking or how much was it the turnovers?

JOHN LeCLAIR:  I think they were quick.  We made a lot of bad decisions.  We didn't skate the way we wanted to tonight.  I mean, those were the two big keys.  We didn't have our feet moving.  We weren't jumping on loose pucks and that was the problem for us.  We let them skate and they are a deadly team when they can do that.


Q.  How disappointing is it to come out and not have the -- especially at home and first game of the Finals, how difficult is it?

JOHN LeCLAIR:  It is frustrating to come out and be flat and be flat like we were and not have a jump.  Obviously, you know, you want to get off to a good start, especially in a series like this.


Q.  How devastating was the goal early in the third when you guys were coming back there?

JOHN LeCLAIR:  You know, it was a big goal for them. But, there is still a lot of time left in the third period.  It wasn't a difference there.


Q.  Talk about your power game down low.

JOHN LeCLAIR:  I thought we did all right when we did get the puck in low.  We circled the puck all right.  We just didn't get many chances to do that.  That is what we have to find a way to do, is to get in there and start working the puck.


Q.  Is there one thing that you try to do differently for Game 2 that you can exploit on their side?

JOHN LeCLAIR:  I don't think we are going to have to change a whole lot.  You know, like I said, we made our own mistakes and we didn't have our feet in them.  So, those were two things that you don't need to see a whole lot of chalkboard on.  It is pretty simple.


Q.  Talk about Game 2.

JOHN LeCLAIR:  Game 2 is going to be a little bit more important now.  We don't want to go down 2-nothing heading into their building.  But, you know, we are not going to panic.  It is one game and a long series also.  We have got to keep our heads up.  We know what we did wrong.  We will be there the next game.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT