NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: RED WINGS v FLYERS
June 6, 1997
John LeClair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  The coach in the press conference right now, he said until now this has been a choking situation.  Is that the way you see it?

JOHN LeCLAIR:  That is kind of tough to use those words, you know, we played hard at times.  But, we haven't played our best hockey.  It is disappointing right now when you don't play your best hockey.


Q.  John, where is your confidence level right now?

JOHN LeCLAIR:  Confidence level is still up there. This team believes in itself.  We believe in every guy in here and we are going to continue to believe that way.  There is no time now to hang your head and start feeling sorry for yourself.  You have got to make the best of the situation we have got right now.


Q.  Is all the attention tougher when the situation is down 3-nothing?

JOHN LeCLAIR:  I don't think so.  I think, you know, you deal with it for 15 minutes and then you forget about it. That is the way we are going about it.  We are going to stick together as a team and we are going to play together.


Q.  John, is it a pride check now?  You are down 3-0 and nobody wants to get swept out.  Is that all part of a motivation that you feel for tomorrow night?

JOHN LeCLAIR: Pride is part of it.  But, we are going to go out and hopefully we can get back in the series.  We are not, you know, we are not throwing in the towel yet, but pride is a big factor obviously to go out and play well tomorrow night.


Q.  There has been a lot of talk about confidence in the last day or so since last night.  You guys came in this series with a great deal of confidence.  Why has that confidence been taken away?

JOHN LeCLAIR:  I think the way we started out in the first game, you know, we didn't play well.  We didn't really recapture that confidence.  That is one thing we have got to get back to that level that we played, feeling confident in yourself and your teammates.


Q.  Defense was a strong point of your club and when that broke down did that affected everybody?

JOHN LeCLAIR:  That's the way we have been successful is playing great team defense and right now we are not doing that.  That is probably our biggest weakness right now, not playing strong defense.  We have got to start playing better team defense.  That is what we have to do. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT