NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: RED WINGS v FLYERS
June 3, 1997
John LeClair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOHN LeCLAIR:  I think the important thing is to stay positive, not feel sorry for ourselves.  Now, we can't make up two games in one night.  So, going to take it one night at a time here.  Be ready for Thursday.


Q.  All the changes that have been made in terms of personnel, what else can you change?

JOHN LeCLAIR:  I think we can change the way we are playing a little bit better.  We had a better effort tonight, but it still wasn't the effort that we need to win, obviously. We have got to come up with, I think in ourselves and find a better way to get better play out of each person.


Q.  Really doing a pretty good job(INAUDIBLE) trying to flood the net?

JOHN LeCLAIR:  They are doing a good job bringing all 5 guys to the middle and it makes it tough getting the puck through and that is something we have got to work on.  I mean, when they do that, then somebody has got to be open.  So, you just got to be a little sharper in that area.


Q.  They seem to be starting real quick.  Is that a function of what they are doing or a function of what you are doing?

JOHN LeCLAIR:  It is a little bit of both.  They came out flying the first ten minutes in the first and they did it again in the second.  It is something we have got to be aware of.  It has been a trend the last two games.  We have got to be ready from the beginning and at the beginning of each period. They have been jumping on us.


Q.  Talk about Shanahan and his performance.

JOHN LeCLAIR:  I mean, he finds the net.  He found the net and prove to be real big for him.  He came up big.  He is a good player and he really helped the team out tonight.


Q.  (INAUDIBLE)?

JOHN LeCLAIR:  I think that is one reason -- there is no reason that guys still can't stay positive.  I know I am very positive.  I still think we are going to win.  I think that is what everybody is thinking too.  It is not the best situation for us.  It is not the situation where we would want to be, but we have got to make the best of it now.  We can win in their building and we have to go there and prove it.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT