NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: RED WINGS v FLYERS
June 1, 1997
John LeClair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  John, after viewing the film, do you see anything that you will do differently, offensewise, in Game 2. 
 
JOHN LeCLAIR:  I think there is a lot of things that we can do to create offense.  As I kind of mentioned last night, I think a lot of it starts with just us moving our feet.  I start skating -- when you are skating you are going to be able to create a lot more.  I don't think we get to the puck -- we got the puck to the net as much as we would like to.  We didn't have a lot of great scoring chances as we had in the past. 
 

Q.  John, No. 1, were you guys tentative last night and, also, do you feel like you really have to step it up physically in Game 2?
 
JOHN LeCLAIR:  I think we were real tentative in the first period.  I think that is a lot of --  where the non-skating came from.  We weren't jumping on a lot of loose pucks.  We played like a team that was just kind of, you know, in awe of the whole situation in the first period.  It kind of put us in a hole. 
 

Q.  John, you saw on the one goal, your goal, the two really long diagonal passes, the first one right out the zone. What was Detroit doing the rest of the night that you guys could not get those kind of passes on the break.  Could you tell?
 
JOHN LeCLAIR:  They were filling the lines.  I mean, you know, consistently making rink-wide passes back and forth. It is going to be hard to do against any team.  It just happened on that play that there were lines there to get the puck through.  You know, I don't think that is something that we want to practice either.  It is kind of dangerous to keep throwing the puck rink-wide.  We want to make sure pass -- we want to have the guys who have the puck get support from people and have them close to them. 
 

Q.  When you were on the Montreal team that won the Cup, you had a similar opening game at home to what you guys had last night.  Do you have any -- because you have been through it -- any better understanding about why that kind of thing might happen?
 
JOHN LeCLAIR:  It doesn't make it any easier to understand why those things happen.  As a team and as a player it is frustrating to come out.  You want to start the series off, obviously, on a good note and for us to come out flat I think it was very frustrating and disappointing for us. 
 

Q.  Ron talked about how Terry is known to switch goalies  just to try and change things.  With the performance that you guys played in front of Hextall last night, would you give support for Ron to Terry to have him stay or do you just stay out of that?
 
JOHN LeCLAIR:  It is not my decision, but, you know, my opinion is, you know, they scored 2 -- 2 on 0, which you only see in practice.  So, they had another 2 on 1.  You know, we didn't give it actually a whole lot of help.  I think, you know, we were down by 2 goals, but even in the third period Hexy made a bunch of big serves that could have made it a 3 goal game.  So a lot of people kind of overlook that. 
 

Q.  John, these guys are going to try to get you into a skating game.  Do you feel like you can skate these guys?  Can you skate in that type of game with them?
 
JOHN LeCLAIR:  I think they have a little more legs than we do.  They are a little quicker.  But, I don't think that is the game that we want to get into.  If you want to be successful as a team, you want to play your game, you want to win at your own game.  You don't want to try to win at their game.  It is important for us to use our size to slow them down so they can't get the speed generated like they did last night. 
 

Q.  You spoke about maybe being a little bit in awe in Game 1.  Do you think those jitters are behind you?
 
RON HEXTALL:  I think they are behind us.  I think we picked it up at times.  It wasn't something that lingered all game.  So, I think there won't be a question that we won't be ready to go on Tuesday. 
 

Q.  I don't have your exact minutes played.  It seemed like your line didn't play as much last night as it did in a lot of games in there the Playoffs.  Do you feel like you can play a bit more --
 
JOHN LeCLAIR:  Those aren't my decisions.  I mean, I felt fresh last night.  I don't think it was a fact of rustiness.  I think it was -- maybe it was just a case of feeling the team out, trying to get different combinations against different players, see who plays against who, and who can work against who on the other team. 
 

Q.  John, can you talk about the importance of winning the second game?
 
JOHN LeCLAIR:  For us it is very important.  We don't want to go to Detroit being down 2-0.  It is not a good situation.  I mean, they are a good club at home and we know that, so it is a big game for us.  You can't put yourself too far in the hole anyway, especially with the start with 2 games. 
 

Q.  Were you surprised at the ability of the Detroit defense early on to take a hit and still get the puck out, and how much did that sort of screw up your fore-checking game?
 
JOHN LeCLAIR:  I wasn't surprised with the way they can take a hit.  I don't think we really hit them that much at all last night.  I think what surprised me was they did a great  job of holding up for each other and that wasn't allowing us to get our hits in. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT