UL INTERNATIONAL CROWN
October 5, 2018
In-Kyung Kim
Sung Hyun Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I.K., you carved out a win yesterday; today, different result.  How difficult was it out there in those conditions?
IN KYUNG KIM: Definitely the course condition itself was different, and it was same for everyone.  We really gave our best.  Just Katherine and Su really had a game.  I don't think they have made any mistake except 11, so they were really good team all the way through.
Q. They got an early lead and never relinquished control in the match.
IN KYUNG KIM: Right.  Yeah, definitely.  I mean, they had some early lead, and on the back we did our best to catch up with them.  But the condition and everything, it wasn't -- you know it was just tough to catch up the leaders.
Q. Question for Sung Hyun.  Compared to yesterday, what was different with your game?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  The weather condition affected my game a little bit.  I feel a little bit -- I'm not pleased with how I played on the front because of the conditions.
Q. A loss today, but Korea has had three wins out of four.  As a team you have to be pretty happy with your start here.
IN KYUNG KIM: Yeah, I'm so proud how they managed their game today with this condition.  I heard In Gee really played well.  I think they're bonding really well.  That he complimenting each other's games.
Yeah, we're doing our best.  Looking forward to next game.
Q. Final question:  Tight turnaround.  You'll get some lunch.  How do you prepare yourselves for round three starting this afternoon knowing it's not going to finish this afternoon?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  So I'll have to focus on getting ahead as much as we can on the front nine, and perhaps maybe concentrating focus a little bit more compared to the second round.
Q. Sung Hyun, what's it been like for you this week?  Huge crowds yesterday, obviously wet conditions today, but getting great support from the Korean fans out there.
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  Of course I feel great that I have their support.  It actually gives me a lot of strength.  I am a little sorry that I didn't live up to their expectations today, but I hope that I can that I can make it right in the next round.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT