KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2018
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. The setup today, was it easier than the first two days or was it harder or was it about the same?  How would you rate it?
IN-KYUNG KIM: I felt like the first two rounds it was acceptable with the greens being wet, everything wet, so I think they gave us a little bit forward tee.  But I remember they moved backwards on 8, but still, I was hitting irons on 8.  And even No. 9 they moved the tee, so we were able to go with -- for me I was hitting irons, which is pretty good.  But still, No. 17, they moved the tee up a little bit, but it was still 175 to the hole, right-to-left wind.  So I was a bit streaky on a couple holes, but if I put myself in the fairway in a good position I felt like I had a chance to make some -- a good chance.
Q. Do you feel like you've moved up?  Is this something where your ball-striking has put you in a good position?
IN-KYUNG KIM: Yeah, I feel like my hybrids, especially my hybrids, I just changed this week to Callaway, and Barry has been helping me.  We're changing a lot of numbers, and finally I like them a lot, and it's really -- I feel like I'm getting a lot of support from my hybrids.  There are a lot of good pars out there that it just looks like a par on the scorecard, but there were a lot of great pars.
Like No. 13, which is a great par.  Any day I make 3, I will take 3.  Good pars out there, then I have a chance to go for some under par out here, I think.
Q. You've gotten progressively better each day; do you think you're starting to figure out where you need to put shots on every hole?
IN-KYUNG KIM: I feel I did and then I don't.  Coming into 16, 17, 18, which is really great holes, first things first, you've got to hit the fairway.  Birdie is great, but I think pars are not bad out here.  You just have to play smart and good communication with caddie, like checking the wind and everything, because it's a same direction, but the wind is always affecting the shots.  So yeah, that's a key, I think.
Q. With it being a major and all of the Crown stuff, how important is tomorrow's round for you?
IN-KYUNG KIM: You know, I'm just so stoked that I'm playing well at KPMG.  I never really play well here.  I just was so happy I made a cut yesterday.  I'm like not kidding at all.  This is one of the hardest, I think, courses that we play out here, especially the weather, always rainy or hot and all that.  It's been challenging, but I think it's just -- I'm just so happy just to be playing on the weekend.
Q. How does the heat affect you on a day like this?
IN-KYUNG KIM: I'm okay with the cool weather, I think, but hot gets me.  But I'm trying to use the towels and things to cool down because -- and I try to take some salt, as well, because it's coming off.  It's just like -- sometimes reading the putt is not easy because it's so bright, I can't really see very well.  But I think it's the same for everyone, you've just got to be hydrated.  At least try to be one person, my caddie or me; one of us needs to be sane.
Q. Who was sane out there today, you or the caddie?
IN-KYUNG KIM: Actually he was really happy winning the World Cup this morning, you know, 4-3, I think, with Argentina.
Q. France?
IN-KYUNG KIM: Yeah, he's French, so he just had an extra -- I think maybe that was it.
Q. What's his name?
IN-KYUNG KIM: Axel.
Q. How long have you guys been together?
IN-KYUNG KIM: A year and a half maybe.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT