KIA CLASSIC
March 24, 2018
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nice recovery there after a bit of a slow start.  Can you just talk about turning that around?  
IN KYUNG KIM: Yeah.  I feel like I hit good shots, but it was bit windy.  So like I hit good shots but just was like long for 1 and 2.   
I was a little frustrated because you don't want to make bogey, bogey.  My caddie just said, You hit a great shot.  Sometimes just got to keep -- hit a good shot.  Really help me.   
 Q.  Made a nice recovery here on 18.  Can you take us through that?  
IN KYUNG KIM: Yeah.  Well, we had left-to-right lie, both of us, and wind was blowing left to right into.  We really had to aim like in between the grandstand and the pin.   
We just -- sometime you didn't just let it go.  Just, Oh, and then...   
Yeah, it was right miss, I guess, but, yeah, it's playing tough today I think into the wind.   
 Q.  You had a five-shot lead going into the day, and now there is I think five-way tie for the lead?  Did you see that kind of turnaround happening?  
IN KYUNG KIM: Well, I didn't see it.  I was so busy catching up with the group front.  But in the same time, I felt like, yeah, I was on the 4th, 2nd, something like that, but I couldn't pay attention twosome.   
I think it's a great practice going into ANA, because they're twosome all the time and plays faster.   
 Q.  Right.  Do you like that?  
IN KYUNG KIM: I don't mind it, but like I wish I have a longer (indiscernible), you know, catch up with my caddie.   
 Q.  Right.  
IN KYUNG KIM: I think end of the day it worked out.  The front nine was a little tricky to just keep play.   
 Q.  The pressure to keep moving?  
IN KYUNG KIM: Yeah.  Even though it's uphill you just...   
 Q.  Yeah, you're out of breath.  
IN KYUNG KIM: Yeah.  Just keep playing.   
 Q.  You don't have any of the clubs that were recovered in your bag, do you?  
IN KYUNG KIM: No.   
 Q.  You're not using any of them?  
IN KYUNG KIM: I want to test them, but I just don't know the yardage because I have whole new clubs.  I didn't have time to practice or anything.  I think I'm going to try next first few days.  If the hybrids are actually working okay, then...   
 Q.  Of next week?  
IN KYUNG KIM: Yeah.   
 Q.  Yeah.  
IN KYUNG KIM: I had a three hybrid.  I only found two.  We'll see what happens.   
 Q.  Which degrees were found?  
IN KYUNG KIM: I don't really know.  I wasn't paying attention.   
 Q.  Wild.  
IN KYUNG KIM: Wild.   
 Q.  One more question for you.  I asked Michelle and Anna Nordqvist this as well.  Next week Lexi Thompson is going into a situation where she had some drama last year.  How do you put things like that out of your mind when you go back to a place you've had drama in the past to leave the past in the past?  How did you do that?  
IN KYUNG KIM: Well, it's going to be hard because everybody is going to ask.  Even though nobody asks, there is big elephant in the room.  You just know.  You have to be proud of what she's done.   
I think she manage it very well in the tough situation.  I think it was very unfortunate for anyone in that position.  I think she done well.  Just past is past.  I think she has to be very proud of what she done.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT