KIA CLASSIC
March 22, 2018
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about the round today.  It was pretty good.  
IN-KYUNG KIM: Yeah, this morning was rather tough starting on the back nine.  I started well with a good birdie on 10 and good par on 3 -- I mean, 2.  So my putting was pretty good with the speed today.   
On the turning back the rain kind of stopped and everything just fall into place, yeah.   
 Q.  How much was it raining early on?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: When it was raining, it was kind of solid rain for a couple holes.  Yeah, so greens were really rolling fast during practice.  I was really surprised.  They just did really good job with poana.   
Now I'm kind of used to it now, yeah.  A little bit softer.   
 Q.  Good to get out on the poana greens early?  Maybe not as bumpy?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: Oh, definitely.  Just night and day.  Yeah.  Especially this kind of soft condition.  I think they really did a great job with preferred lie today, even though it wasn't (indiscernible) but this course can get a lot of (indiscernible) so...   
 Q.  How did you feel about your game coming into the week?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: You know, I took last week off.  I needed to test some golf clubs still.  Had a little bit of problem after Singapore, so I had a great practice session last week.  I think it's just feeling more comfortable with new clubs.   
 Q.  How about coming off last season, the British Open and coming off that, what was your feeling like?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: I think career-wise I had a great year, but I lost my friends and family and it was kind of tough personally, I think.  But it happens to everyone.  I really feel grateful how I performed last year.   
I think it just helped me to move forward a lot.   
 Q.  When you say lost your friends and family...  
IN-KYUNG KIM: Yeah, I lost -- my friend passed away and my cousin passed away.  I had a good career, but personally it was a tough season.   
 Q.  Because of that?  How did you overcome that?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: Family.  Just happens and you just wish they are in a better place.   
 Q.  Did those things happen earlier or later in the season?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: Middle of the season and kind of after British, so...   
 Q.  So you have this big high after the British and then...  
IN-KYUNG KIM: Whole career I been playing --  this is my 12th year, so really doesn't have many up and downs.  Last year I was just really pleased how I managed in certain tournaments.   
But, yeah.   
 Q.  So you talked about kind of having last week off to kind of work on club selection.  I kind of wanted to ask you about the whole lost club story.  How crazy has that been?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: Well, you know, at first when they were missing I thought it would be a little bit easier to, Oh, I will find something, you know, but it really was difficult at first.   
Then I was feeling pretty happy coming into this week because I really worked hard, like worked a lot.  Went to the factory like dozen times.  They were like, I.K., are you ever happy?  I was like, Can you bend this this way, that way.  It was just like this for last six weeks.   
Yeah, because my clubs are a little bit older.  It's kind of good to have a conclusion; I don't have to wait anymore.  It was kind of nice.  Some people really just brought those club to give it to me, yeah, so...   
 Q.  What were the clubs that you ended up getting back?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: I got three wedges and two hybrids without the head covers.  I got a tour bag without a Bushnell.   
Yeah, you know, it just happens.  They weren't really targeting me.  It could happen to anyone.  I heard Morgan had same thing couple years ago, so I guess it happens.  Just hope it doesn't happen to us.   
 Q.  You gave American Airlines your clubs.  Were you flying from San Diego?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: No, I was coming from Bahamas to Miami, Miami to San Diego.  But they didn't have my both luggage when I arrived.  They said it's on the next flight.  Then they said it's too late so they're going to deliver in the morning.   
But I only got one bag, right?  So during that night or -- and then they didn't have the tag either.  Like they didn't scan it in San Diego.  They scanned it in Miami.   
I called so many times, but they were missing.   
 Q.  So something happened to your equipment from the time it got on the plane in Miami essentially?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: Probably when it got off, because they were selling it in Pacific, right next to San Diego Airport on that day.  They were selling on February 28th, which they had to hold for 30 days.  So it's exact date when they were arrived.  On that night they just did it.   
I would never know it if somebody didn't bring it, but I feel like I don't have to waited, and I was very frustrated that they keep saying, Oh, we can't find it, you know?  Now I know.  So it's just good for me.   
 Q.  I saw something about a comment that it would've been one thing if it was a car, but it's your golf clubs, right?  It's like losing a piece of you.  
IN-KYUNG KIM: Yes, and policeman said -- yeah, everything is important.  Everything matters.  He was like, Come on, car is important too.  I was like, Yeah, I know, but...   
 Q.  You said Pacific Beach?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: Yeah, it's like south right next to -- is that Pacific Beach?  Yeah, Play It Again store.   
 Q.  How did Carlsbad have it?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: The guy was living in Carlsbad and one of his friends brought this tour bag, like, I got this at this store.  The other friend knew about my story, and was like, No, dude, that's not selling.  It's stolen.  Then he went back and got all the (indiscernible).   
I think I'm going to get my putter back.  I think the store really help me try to get those clubs back, but they can't really find every one.   
 Q.  Do you feel like now that you have this good round with some of them back in your bag, do you feel like it helped having your clubs back in the bag?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: You know, other than golf club, I have same coach, same process, same caddie.  Everything is the same.  I just have to get used to the club.  That's what I'm doing now.   
 Q.  Obviously it worked today.  
IN-KYUNG KIM: Yeah, can you tell that story to Golf Channel.  (Laughter.)   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT