RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 5, 2017
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You now have a six-shot advantage in the final round ahead of the RICOH Women's British Open.  What are you doing so well at Kingsbarns this week?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: I wish I have an answer for you but I think I have quite lower expectation I guess.  But I really enjoyed playing -- first time I played here, even in the practice round, I really enjoyed the golf course and everything and it's just a bonus when it doesn't rain as much.   
 Q.  We saw you gazing at the beautiful rainbows walking up 18 and you've had to deal with all kind of weather on this golf course.  How would you describe Kingsbarns as opposed to other events you've played in the past?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: I feel quite good because maybe that I'm playing so well.  I think it's kind of -- I don't know what it is but every golf course is quite unique I think itself, and even last week, Dundonald, I thought was really amazing.  It's just very windy.  I think it really helped me to prepare for this week.   
 Q.  You've come close to winning a major championship before.  Should you win here tomorrow, would it feel like redemption for what happened at the ANA in 2012?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: I really don't know but I think any win, I think is very special.  I just feel like I've done a lot of good things on and off the golf course and I think it's really helping me out, yeah.  It's showing on the golf course I think.   
 Q.  Another very good round of golf, bogey-free.  How much are you enjoying it out there?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: Just one shot at a time.  I really don't think about the score.  I just try to give my best and it's really rewarding to have a good result in the end.   
 Q.  The greens are a little bit slower over here and then with the rain, they sometimes get slower but they seem to be suiting you.  The putter is very good this week.  
IN-KYUNG KIM: Yeah, yesterday we played in the soaking wet weather and today the greens are rolling just fine compared to yesterday.  I think it really helped me.  You just have to play in worse conditions and then you kind of go from there I think.   
 Q.  You have the lead going into the final round, mentally, how do you prepare for tomorrow and how much are you looking forward to going out there and defending your lead?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: It's really a privilege to play this golf course.  I really enjoy when it's sunny, when it doesn't, but still, it's not the worst place.  I really enjoy playing the golf course and every day is so different, how they set the pin positions and how they use the tee box.  I was really enjoying today.  Hopefully I'll -- I don't really know what's going to happen but I look forward to the challenge.   
 Q.  How do you approach it, when you have the lead, when you go into a final round?  What's your game plan?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: I mean, I think just be flexible in a way.  Sometimes things don't go the way I want it but that's not something I can control, but I will try to focus on what I can control and enjoy and have some fun, too.   
 Q.  You're going into the final round of a major as a runaway leader.  How does that feel?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: It feels quite good.  Really just nothing too exciting or too unexciting.  I feel kind of calm I think, and I think that's why I'm playing quite well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT