RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 5, 2017
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COLIN CALLANDER: Good evening, we have In-Kyung Kimm, a 66, 199 total, a championship record.  Congratulations, your thoughts on the round?
IN-KYUNG KIM: It was a lot of fun I think.  And it was quite nice when the rain stopped on the back nine.  Yesterday the last four or five holes were just so wet.  But today I felt -- I'm just feeling good about just like weather.  It's kind of simple I think out there.
COLIN CALLANDER: You've gone 35 holes without dropping a shot, as well, which is pretty impressive.
IN-KYUNG KIM: I think my dad will love it because he always point out what I did wrong.  He's not going to say anything today.
Q. Is he here this week?
IN-KYUNG KIM: No, he's back in Korea.
Q. Is anybody with you this week, family or coaches?
IN-KYUNG KIM: My sister is here.
Q. Sister?
IN-KYUNG KIM: From another parent.  But she's like my sister.
Q. What's her name?
IN-KYUNG KIM: Mitsuki.  She works for Golf Channel.
Q. Your putting seems to be the strength of your game today?
IN-KYUNG KIM: Yeah, again I think the speed, getting used to the speed was so difficult.  But I told other media that I just feel like yesterday was so slow with the rain that I just adjusted to the green today I think naturally.
Q. Have you ever had a six-shot lead going into a final round before?
IN-KYUNG KIM: I don't remember having a six-shot lead before.  But in the same time, I can't really control other people.  I just have to control my game.  So it really doesn't matter how many shots ahead or behind to me.
Q. You had a winless drought for about six years before winning in China.  What's the difference from 2010 through to 2016, and three-time LPGA winner in the last few months and potential Major Champion?  What did you learn in those six years?
IN-KYUNG KIM: I don't know, I think I'm finally able to let go of that, like title, having won the major.  I think that's why that I'm playing so well.  I think I was quite disappointed at myself after 2012 when I made the mistake.  I mean, everybody makes mistake but I think it was nobody else's problem.  It was my problem.  I really kind of criticised myself a lot, and it's not very healthy.  So if you have any problems, just let it go.
So all I have to say, it's been quite tough but I started to work on myself, not only on the golf course, but off the golf course.  Just be nice to myself and able to have some kind of compassion and gentleness with myself.  I think it's really helping me to play better I think on the golf course.  I give my best but in the same time, I know that sometimes I can't really control the results.
Q. Did it get to a point where you weren't liking the game because of that and you like it more now?
IN-KYUNG KIM: I think we all go through that a little bit.  But I think I quite like the golf.  I didn't want to take away because of the expectations of myself.  It was kind of taking away the joy of golf but I think even though I made a lot of mistakes or success, I don't know, whatever, of the past, I would say, that I still like playing golf.
Q. Saying that you've been able to put 2012 in the back of your head, leading to this improved form, was there a point --
IN-KYUNG KIM: Yeah, I get questions all the first time from other people.  So I thought it was coming from other people that I thought I was quite angry or unhappy, but actually it was me that's disappointed at myself, do you know what I mean -- or no.
But I kind of -- it means that I was disappointed, but if I love myself, I will let it go and I will live today as fully as I could.  Because I mean, some things happen and it's not in my control but I can control my state of mind right now.  I can be positive now and that's what I'm doing.  Just one day at a time.  And I don't really get surprised by a lot of things in sports anymore.  I think that's kind of a game -- oh, that's okay, or if somebody makes a crazy saying, but I'm like, they will get over it.
I kind of look at my -- I love music, and you don't want to always listen to happy music in your life.  When you're listening to classical music, you want to have some kind of highlights, you know.  And I kind of look at my golf that way and life that way because like it's already happened, so I have to make the best out of it.
Q. In the past you've worked with Vision 54.  Wondering who is your team now?  Who do you work with, and was there anyone that helped you have that enlightening or did you read something or did it come to you?
IN-KYUNG KIM: Yeah, I work with Ken and Len, they are just amazing people.  I love them a lot.  I do work with other mental coach and emotional coach.  I get help for everything I get.
And also I meditate and all those things off the course, which I think helps on the golf course.  But I think golf, I really try to just look at it as something that I really enjoy and something I can challenge myself.
But goal is well being and have good friends and family and then golf.  It's not that I don't care as much but I think that's what I choose to, and so yeah, I do work with mental, emotional coaches.
Q. Could we get names?
IN-KYUNG KIM: Lenny Bushan (ph) he used to be an Olympic Gold medalist, shooting.  So I work with him.  And also Matt Park.  He also works with NASA I think.
Q. NASA?
IN-KYUNG KIM: They travel a lot, too, you know.  They go to space.  Can you imagine living in the space?  You need to have some kind of help.  (Laughter) And I thought I was traveling a lot, but I was like, I'm happy on earth after that.
So yes, I do have a lot of questions in life, and I try to figure it out.  I'm not always right but it's just kind of fun to have different people around me.
Q. You say you like playing music but not always happy music.  What music would best describe the good golf that you're playing right now?
IN-KYUNG KIM: Wow, my playlist, you want to listen to my playlist?  I think you'd quite enjoy it because it's all mixed, happy, kind of rebel and also classical.  I love classical music.
So I wouldn't say -- did I say my music was sad?  I was kind of comparing.
Q. You said you don't always play happy music.
IN-KYUNG KIM: Classical music, like you listen to Chopin, it's not happy, but it's just so engaging, and even the artists, they put so much hours to play the piano, that one song, and I think it's just inspiring me.
Q. Following up that line, are you more peaceful on the golf course now that you've made this decision, this change of attitude?
IN-KYUNG KIM: I think I try -- I think in between shots I'm able to relax.  When I'm hitting the ball, I have to focus.  That's kind of a habit.  Like I would like to be more automatic, but I have to be more mindful, because running my process -- I feel that I gave my best when I do that and then I can take the results, if I give my hundred percent.  But I really do enjoy in between shots.
Q. Did you play an instrument when you were a child like a lot of Korean girls seem to have done?
IN-KYUNG KIM: Yes, I played piano, from four to nine, just before playing golf.  But I asked my mom for a Christmas gift, I just don't want lessons anymore.  Because even though I liked it, I think I was more like jazz.  But I was practicing classical a lot, and I started not liking it.  And I didn't get over that.  I wish I kind of had more patience for it.  I didn't have the same patience like golf.
Q. The Koreans are known for the prodigious amount of time they spend practicing.  Do you practice less because the philosophical nature of how you are on the golf course means that you don't have to hit hundreds of golf balls every day to play your best; do you practice less, hit less putts, hit less balls?
IN-KYUNG KIM: I try to come out more like I'll have a little bit of objective that I want to work on.  Like never play the golf course; I'd rather be on the golf course, or things like that.  But in the same time, I like to be more playful.  It's a game.  And sometimes I try to make it so perfect that I don't enjoy anymore.  So I think it's just balance.  I do need time to practice and more than the technique and everything.  But in the same time that I can have fun and laugh with friends, too.
COLIN CALLANDER: You have a Beatles ball marker on your hat.  Are you a fan?
IN-KYUNG KIM: Yes, big.  Time I wish everybody's alive.  I love their music and it's very inspiring.  My friend gave to me in Ohio.  So since, I think quite a lucky charm.  Putts are going in.
Q. Will you meditate tomorrow before you tee off?
IN-KYUNG KIM: Like kind of guilty, I haven't done it very much.  Maybe I will do it.  But I try to be -- if I'm staying in the present moment all the first time, then I think that's quite meditative, just being happy at the moment.
Q. Are you nervous about having a sizable lead?  Does it make you feel good or make you feel nervous?
IN-KYUNG KIM: I'd like to think it's much better than not having a lead.  But you know, at the same time, I really have to focus on my game and have a good time.  I know the expectation, and I will make bogeys, yeah, and things like that.  But I feel like I think I should give myself a little bit of credit for it and enjoy tonight and then whatever happens tomorrow, I'll take it tomorrow.
COLIN CALLANDER: Thank you very much.  Good luck tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT