SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
June 4, 2017
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Happy to be joined in the media center by 2017 ShopRite LPGA Classic champion, I.K. Kim.  I.K., how does it feel to win?   
IN-KYUNG KIM: Still can't believe it.  A lot of photos after the round that I didn't know.   
But, yeah, I feel really pleased with how I played today.  Was really tricky and challenge out there, but I gave my best.   
It's really nice to win the tournament with everything that I gave, you know.   
THE MODERATOR: What was really clicking for you in your game this week that allowed you to go so low out there?   
IN-KYUNG KIM: I play really well on the par-5s last few days; today I'm not sure.  I didn't make the birdie on par-5, but I played well on the par-3s today.  And I think I scramble very well.  I think the short game has been really a big help.   
THE MODERATOR: You dealt with some injury issues at the beginning of this season.  What all did you have to do to work your way back into your form that allowed you to win?   
IN-KYUNG KIM: I had a lot of help from my physiotherapist.  I didn't break anything, but I fall on the stairs and I bruised my tailbone.  That took a long time; now I feel much better.   
But which actually helped me to work on my upper body more stronger while I couldn't work on my low body.  But I'm really happy to come back stronger than was I before.   
But I couldn't have done it without all my trainer's support.   
 Q.  How did it feel to be in contention again?  Nerves before you tee'd off?  How did you manage to stay focused?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: Thank you.  You know, I talk to my coach this morning because I felt that way, it's like not normal, right?  All of a sudden everybody is, Oh, you're playing well.  I'm like, Yes, I'm playing well, but why are you surprised?   
No, I'm just kidding.  But we do that, and it's definitely not normal.  People come up to you and say things.  Could be a little bit distraction, I think, but I kind of welcome everything because people really want me do well.   
Sometimes that puts me too much pressure on myself sometimes, but today somehow that I felt like was normal and this is something that I practiced for.   
Yeah, still, I mean, I was very nervous, but nobody is dying or anything.  I didn't have to worry about tiger chasing me.   
I think the wind kind of helped me focus more I think on the task.   
 Q.  Also, I understand you guys were put on the clock after tee shots on 11.  How did you deal with that?  Did you think you guys were playing slow?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: Well, I mean, on the last group, wind like this, but we were I think little slow and we were on the clock on those tricky holes.  I had to rush one time.  The bogey I made was 150 front and I hit 170 club.  My caddie was like, What are you doing?  I'm like -- I had no idea.  I was rushing.   
But my caddie helped me a lot.  I just ask him like how far should I carry.  After that, I was just listening to him.  I wasn't even calculating myself.   
 Q.  You mentioned earlier in the week kind of doing the Special Olympics stuff here with the kids.  What does it mean to win a tournament that you have a relationship with and people look forward to seeing you every year?  You mentioned seeing a lot of the same kids at the clinics.  What does it mean to win here basically?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: Very special.  Like winning is not that in my control I don't think.  Over the years that's what I learned.  I just came here to play golf because I have such a good relationship with ShopRite and what they do.  They support Special Olympic athletes.   
It's very unique.  I go to different states.  I go to their game.  But coming here actually I feel like I'm getting the support from them because they come here.  I had a pre-warmup actually with them, putting game.  You should have been there, because I was trying to line them up, but they were aiming here and still made the putt.   
I'm like, What am I doing?  You know, putts, whatever, you just make it, you know?  So it's very special.  I think they will be very happy.  They text me to wish me good luck.  It's very hard to take the credit because I didn't do as much as other volunteers who involve with Special Olympics game.  I'm just really happy to be the part of them, the movement.   
 Q.  Were you paying attention to what the group in front of you was doing score-wise?  Did you look at the leaderboard very much?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: I wish I was able to see them.  We were on time; just couldn't see them.  I was so happy to see them on 16.  Sorry, I thought it was kind of funny.   
Yeah, so I didn't know what they were doing, but just playing my game.  Was so windy and running and rushing and slowing down.  That was kind of my game plan on the back nine.  Had no game plan.   
 Q.  How hard is it to keep your concentration in a situation like that?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: Very difficult, but it wasn't only ourself.  Our teammates were the same.  We were on the time all the time and trying to help each other a little bit here and there to tee off first, play ready-golf.   
So it is much harder, but I wasn't really worried about my outcome so much today.  It was just another day.  Just had to play a little faster.   
Thank you.   
 Q.  Was there one moment when it sunk in that you were going to win the tournament?  Maybe on the walk up to 18 or when you made the final putt or something?  What did that feel like, sort of the realization that, Hey, I'm going to win this thing?  What was that like for you?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: I just had a lot of fun working on my wedge this week and able to make putts.  It was like putting was fun today for me.   
So like I said, I just don't feel like winning is in my control at all.  But I had a lot of good putts and I felt like there is some kind of like, you know, tricky putts and I didn't release my follow through.  That was a little disappointing.   
Other than that, I was really pleased with my performance.   
THE MODERATOR: We'll get you out on this one last question:  What's the plan to celebrate this victory?   
IN-KYUNG KIM: I change my flight today.  Was flying out tonight, but I change to tomorrow morning.  My mom is flying into Toronto.  I think she will be very happy having this news, because she's flying I think right now on the plane.   
And same with my best friend.  So she let me stay at her room, and I think we're just going to dance and just eat room service.   
THE MODERATOR: Well, sounds like a great time congratulations again.   
IN-KYUNG KIM: Thank you, Matt.  Thank you, everyone.  Thank you for your support.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT