SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
June 3, 2017
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great day for you.  What was working well for you out there?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: Wind was blowing less and the greens are really pure this morning.  Yeah, I think I managed the holes really well.  Like par-5s I managed well yesterday and today.   
Par-3s are tough, but I gave my best.  So, yeah.   
 Q.  You've had a couple top 10 finishes here.  What is it you like about this golf course?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: I'm not sure.  I just love coming here.  I have good relationship with Special Olympic New Jersey, and it's my treat to come here and spend time with them.   
Three-day event, so get to play and it's already weekend, you know.   
 Q.  You're holding the lead right now heading into the final round on Sunday.  How do you fell about that?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: You know, there's a lot opportunities out here, but also there's few very tough holes.   
Whoever manages well, the best, I think will win tomorrow.   
 Q.  A little bit of a sprinkle during your round, did that affect you at all, the rain?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: Not at all actually.  Now look at it.  Blue sky.  I didn't expect it.  They were like really dark.  Clouds were out there.  I think it's getting off.   
So, yeah, weather, can't ask more; otherwise bugs going to come out.   
 Q.  You've played in only five events this year.  Are you hurt?  How are you arranging your schedule this year?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: Well, I don't know.  How many tournament has been?   
 Q.  This is the 13th.  
IN-KYUNG KIM: Okay.   
 Q.  So your 6th.  
IN-KYUNG KIM: Yeah, end of the year last year I got very sick and then I needed to rehab and recover.   
So this winter I didn't have any break, so I needed some time, yeah, for getting ready for summer.   
I'm really happy to get back.  I have new caddie on my bag and this week has been very fun.   
 Q.  You mentioned a connection to special Olympics New Jersey.  How did that come about?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: The ShopRite, they have really good relationship with special Olympics and other charities, and also, I am ambassador of Special Olympics.   
We got to do the clinic on Wednesday in the afternoon.  It's been our third year doing the clinic and same athletes come.  It's kind of nice to see them coming back and spend the time.   
We were doing putting game, and it's kind of funny.  The hole was right here and they're aiming here and they just still make the putt.  I'm like, I learned something, you know?   
So it's nice.   
 Q.  When you have ties to a tournament like that, can that help you play better or feel more relaxed at the actual event basically?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: What do you mean?   
 Q.  When you do something like that before the tournament and you feel good about the tournament and the relationship with Special Olympics, does that help you when you come to the event here feel at home and play a little bit more comfortable, relaxed?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: Right, I don't play every tournament, but I really cherish this tournament because I know what our sponsor's doing for the good.   
Yeah, I feel really good.  I always don't miss it here.  I always come here.   
 Q.  Do you remember the last time you were in contention?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: You know, I won last year.  I feel like I've been in contention quite a bit.  But for me, just playing my best is my goal.  Winning is the bonus I think and not in my control anyway.   
 Q.  Are any of the Special Olympic kids out here following you?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: I haven't seen them today, but I go every tournament and they come, they support.  Whoever supports Special Olympics, they come and watch.  So it's really good relationship.  It has been.   
 Q.  You mentioned the off-season thing.  Was that an injury or were you just flu sick?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: I don't really want to bring -- because I'm really healthy now, but I fell on the stair and just wasn't good.   
But I have good support team with me, so everything is really good.  I think I got stronger actually after that injury.  Yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT