LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 13, 2016
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








(Through translation.)
Q. Congratulations on your win at Reignwood.  How do you think that win helped you coming into today's tournament?  Did it give you more confidence that maybe helped you in today's round?
IN-KYUNG KIM: I was quite happy to win Reignwood because I have a lot of people who were really happy for me and I have a lot of people supporting me.  It was kind of a relief to be able to win that championship and say thank you to them in a sense.
That championship really put my mine at ease.  I can't really describe what I'm feeling, but this is a completely different golf course.  It's a different championship, so I'm trying to put that win behind me and really focus on the game at hand.
THE MODERATOR: Questions?
Q. Since joining the LPGA you've had your up and downs.  What has helped you to stick with the game, especially those periods when the game wasn't going in your favor?
IN-KYUNG KIM: I think after joining the tour I kind of had the attitude that I just wanted to get better every year gradually.  It's true that as a player it was difficult for me in those times when I didn't feel like I was getting better every year.
I think accepting that that is part of the game and that's part of being with the LPGA kind of helped me get over that.  I've had a lot of support.  I've had a lot of support in training and also on the field.  I'm not the only one on the LPGA.  I have a lot of fellow players.  Sometimes I consoled myself thinking that perhaps I'm going through a bit of a lull because the other players are so good.
So I think I learned throughout the years that finding the right course and right conditions for you is important as a player.
Q. You're known as one of the players who has a lot of other hobbies that you're very much interested in other than golf.  This season, what kind of grabbed your interest?
IN-KYUNG KIM: I don't know if this is the appropriate answer for that question, but I really tried to focus on golf this season.  As you said, I'm interested in a lot of different things, and I kind of realized I was losing focus.  I really wanted to find the balance between my other interests and golf.
This season I was focused on concentrating on golf.  Even during my down time I usually have my guitar with me and I didn't bring it.  During the down time I tried to relax and really prepare for the next game.
Q. This will be Se Ri Pak's final round.  Can you share what her influence has been on you as a player?
IN-KYUNG KIM: I think Se Ri Pak definitely gave other Korean players confidence to go on to the LPGA.  She was a pioneer in the LPGA for Korean players.  I think right now we have so many Korean players on tour, but she was alone then.  I have a lot of respect for her for achieving the success she has.
So in that sense, I am immensely grateful for her, and I think as a player if I were in her shoes right now I would be very saddened that I would not be on tour anymore.  It's inevitable for all players to retire, but I think at this point she would really need our support as she says farewell.
(In English.)  I can't imagine that she's retiring this week.  It must be very tough for her, and I'm glad that she's at home in Korea where she will have more support of her retiring.
Because I can't imagine that one day I will have to retire, but I think she always been such a great inspiration for not only women's golf but any sports in Korea.
She represents, yeah, Korea, and just she started the many, many wins.  You will see on the tour many Koreans, but back then she was alone and there was only couple players from Korea.  We really appreciate her hard work and we will continue to support her.
Yeah.
Q. It seems that LPGA players retire earlier than your PGA counterparts.  In your opinion as a golfer, what efforts or measures would need to be taken to prolong your career?
IN-KYUNG KIM: I really have no idea.  I think it's a natural course for players to bloom and then eventually retire.  I think all you can do is your best.  How long you decide to take your career is I think up to that individual.
I do believe that a player would need to feel that their game is improving and that they're learning something on the golf course for them to continue.  However, if the player feels that they're getting tired of the game or want to spend more time with their family, I think that's also a choice that needs to be respected.
As to the point of your question as to how long we can prolong our careers, I don't think I have an answer for that.
Q. Are there any books that helped you prepare mentally for the win at Reignwood or even after the win and any advice that you have been given recently or any particular lesson or realization that you had after the recent win at Reignwood?
IN-KYUNG KIM: I always get a lot of advice and support from my coach and my family and friends.
You asked about books, and recently I read a book on the at Joseon Dynasty by a very famous Korean history lecturer.  Looking back, I realized, if you look at history, there were a lot of the former kings in Korea who at the time had policies that were considered success at their time, but looking back they were considered bad policies and vice versa.
So this kind of consoled me, because if you look at the big picture, all these little ups and downs at the end of the day didn't really seem significant.  For me, I was consoled in the fact that sometimes my setbacks and failures, that maybe those failures and setbacks are happening for a reason that I may not realize right now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT