REIGNWOOD LPGA CLASSIC
October 2, 2016
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Congratulations.  Huge win, huge victory for you on this golf course today.   
Are you happy winning like this?  This win remind me the victory in Germany.  One shot behind, bogey-free round, and you were three shot back of the lead and one shot victory.   
Are you happy with a win like this coming from behind?   
IN KYUNG KIM: So the question was?   
THE MODERATOR: Are you happy with winning coming from behind?   
IN KYUNG KIM: I'm happy with how I played today.  I've made many -- I mean, I had to make decisions.  There was couple really difficult decisions, but I think kind of I wasn't really thinking about three shot behind or how many shots I was behind.   
I knew I had to play my best golf out here, and I just wanted to do that.   
 Q.  Stay patient and move forward and momentum birdie after birdie and eagle after birdie out there.  Would you like to talk us through your highlight today in your round, please.  
IN KYUNG KIM: Every shot was important today.  Not one shot was more important.  But I give my best to every shot.  Sometime putts go in and sometime it doesn't.   
I feel great that I -- I mean, I wasn't thinking about making eagle on 16.  I had a good drive and good 3-wood.  It was left-to-right putt that I been practicing so it was kind of worked out.   
THE MODERATOR: Talking about 16, right?   
IN KYUNG KIM: Yes.   
THE MODERATOR: Yeah.  You hit the driver good and second shot and third.   
IN KYUNG KIM: And 3-wood.   
THE MODERATOR: 3-wood for tee shot?   
IN KYUNG KIM: No, driver, 3-wood, and made the --   
THE MODERATOR: Birdie?   
IN KYUNG KIM: Yeah.  Left-to-right uphill putt.   
THE MODERATOR: Oh, the eagle?   
IN KYUNG KIM: Yeah, Shanshan very happy me making, because hers was a little short.  She was like, I'm glad you made it.  She's so nice.   
THE MODERATOR: The floor is go to open.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
IN KYUNG KIM: Yeah, I hit an okay drive and I had 195 to the front right, and then to the flag was 206 --   
THE MODERATOR: 195 left to the green?   
IN KYUNG KIM: To the green, but the pin was on the left side, the corner was 206, and the wind of the crossing.  So basically I had to aim left and then the wind was blowing to the right side.   
But I hit a 5-wood.  Hit it pretty good, but I think I should have hit 3-wood.  That's it.   
THE MODERATOR: So you should have selected -- any regret?   
IN KYUNG KIM: I mean, there are a lot of things you can say.  After the shot you can say, Oh, that was 3-wood, but at the time I thought was right decision.  So I don't regret it.   
 Q.  You didn't perform that well the first half of the season.  Only two Top 10s in the LPGA Tour.  What do you attribute that to?  You won two totals within one month in September.  
IN KYUNG KIM: That's tough question, because --   
THE MODERATOR: What do you attribute that to?  Physically?  Mentally?  Technically?   
IN KYUNG KIM: Golf has to be physically, technically, mentally, and you have to sacrifice a lot of things, I think.   
I've worked really hard.  I cannot really control the results, but I feel like last past three, four weeks that I been scoring really well I feel like I'm improving and growing.   
Physically I'm stronger than year before, but it took a while to get fit and things.  But I just feel like even this week my good friend Gloria Park, she used to play on the tour and now she's coaching Chinese National Team.   
I asked her couple weeks ago, Can you look at my putting?  It helped me a lot actually.  She was just here because of her players and she just watched me putt here and there.   
THE MODERATOR: Give you lots of help?   
IN KYUNG KIM: Yeah.   
 Q.  Do you think this will be your starting point to get things going?  Can you talk us through 2012 Nabisco Championship?  You missed a very short putt.  Maybe the first half of the question.  
IN KYUNG KIM: Honestly, I just feel very fortunate to be here because I know the setting of the course, and making this tournament possible is very difficult.  I feel very fortunate to be able to play on the LPGA Tour.   
I have so many good friends here, and even all the fellow players, that we support each other.  Doesn't matter what nationality we are, we are come out and give our best golf every tournament.   
And without the staff and all the people who work behind, without their hard work, I wouldn't be really sitting down here talking to you.   
So, I mean, it might look like I'm the champion of the this week, but it's really the whole group of LPGA Tour is really incredible.   
I'm just really happy to be a part of them.   
 Q.  And the second half, about the 2012 Nabisco Championship.  You missed the tap-in putt.  
IN KYUNG KIM: Yeah, that was unfortunate, but it happens.  Son Young played very well on Sunday, so she deserve her winning.  That's it.  I think she deserved it.  It's kind of feel bad that it's kind of overcasting of my missing her winning.  People don't talk about it very much.   
But I feel like she deserved it.  Whenever I have an opportunity I love to perform the way I wanted to perform.  That's it really.   
 Q.  So maybe your answer remind me have you ever dreamed of that putt you missed?  
IN KYUNG KIM: No.  I made so many putts today that I rather think about the putts that I made.  Would you remember the bad history all the time?  I learned from it and I want people to stop talk about it.   
I mean, doesn't matter, but I feel like -- I mean, you can talk about it, but I think it's kind of silly.  Sorry.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT