THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 17, 2016
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Very nice round; how about some momentum coming into this week from last week?  What's going on with your game?  I haven't seen you in a little bit.  
IK KIM: Yeah, I've been hitting the ball really well.  It's one of my strengths of my game, and I wanted to make some putts when the score is lower.  I hit probably better yesterday to be honest, but today on the par-5s I was able to reach on the back nine, so I was able to birdie on those.  But there's a lot of chances out there.  But there's a few really quite difficult holes with the slope and everything.  But In Gee and everything is playing so well, so I'll have to bring my best game somehow.   
 Q.  Yeah, seeing those scores, does that kind of give you, all right, this weekend let's be super aggressive?  You know you're going to have to go really low?  
IK KIM: I mean, they're good players, and I was really surprised they could really go -- you know, this golf course is still long and slopey with the weather, but I think that's one of the keys is you can't really force a score, you just have to do your best.  I think that's what I've done well the last three days.   
 Q.  What was particularly working last week in the wind?  Take us through that week.  
IK KIM: Last week, you know, I've been really working hard with my game over the summer, and I really wanted to see the results, but sometimes it comes out, sometimes it doesn't, and I feel really good, grateful that it's coming, showing.  So just go out and do my best.   
 Q.  A lot of confidence crossing over from last week do you think?  
IK KIM: Yeah, it's really good to see the results, even though I wanted to think about my process as more of a priority, but still, the result gives me a little bit more confidence so I can trust my game a little better.   
 Q.  Going into tomorrow, what's the game plan?  
IK KIM: I don't know where I'm standing at the moment, but I think it's better than yesterday.   
 Q.  Yeah, much better I would say.  Okay, so just keep everything the same?  Anything change tomorrow?  
IK KIM: No.  It hasn't been the same.  I'll do certain things the same, but you never know with the weather and everything.  But the course conditions are really good before the rain; I think John did a really good job.  But I think that's why the course is still holding up with the rain, so hopefully tomorrow, fingers crossed.   
 Q.  What have you been working on with your game since the summer?  Did you make some changes or anything?  
IK KIM: No, I try to just -- still growing.  You know, there's a lot of young players coming out, but I still have something to improve, and I wanted to focus on that rather than so much about consequences.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT