AIG WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 1, 2019
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How did you find the golf course and the conditions?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: It's been different every day since I've been here.  It's nice and fresh this morning, pretty calm.  The pin flags today were different than they were the last two days.   
 Q.  Was it playing on the softer side?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: I mean, greens were rolling pure and we had a lot of rain on Tuesday.  It's drying out, I think.   
 Q.  Do you like a parkland course?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: What does that mean?   
 Q.  Trees, not links.  
IN-KYUNG KIM: Yeah, I'm okay with those, I think.   
 Q.  How's your wrist?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: It's okay.   
 Q.  Is it just the wrist or is it up here, too?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: It's just wrist.   
 Q.  And was it from U.S. Open qualifying?  Is that what tweaked it?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: It was San Francisco.  The ground was really firm in LA, and then --   
 Q.  You had a back issue last year, too, right?  How is that going?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: Well, managed really well.  I feel much better.  I know what to treat now.  I'm managing it well.   
 Q.  You've kind of digested for a couple years how winning The Open affected you and what it's meant to you?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: What do you mean, winning The Open?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
IN-KYUNG KIM: I don't know.  Yeah, it was a good year.  '17 I won other events, and it's just different every year out here for me.  I just try to play better golf.  It's really just random.  Some weeks the swing clicks, and some -- but it's been interesting, yeah.   
 Q.  Does your wrist hurt during play at all, when you hit certain shots?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: The range is quite firm, the ground, so I feel it a little bit.  But it's no problem when it's a little softer.  I'm not playing next week.  I'd love to play, but three weeks is too much.   
 Q.  What was your goal when you headed into this week just knowing how your season has been?  You said it's been different every week.  How did you approach this week?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: This week I played pretty well.  I played pretty solid last week coming into this event, and we play here, but it's a totally different kind of setup, and I just try to learn every day.  Seems like I'm learning every day because it's different conditions.   
 Q.  It's playing a lot longer than 2016; are you okay with that?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: I mean, I just play -- not just for myself.  I think it's long for everyone.  Just the game this week, long.   
 Q.  What did you learn on the course today?  You said you learn something every day.  
IN-KYUNG KIM: Just different shot making that I'm trying and trying to hit the right shot for the right angle with the different lies.  Just a little bit more thought before because it's hitting longer clubs.  I cannot just hit it at the flag.  I have to kind of play for misses.   
 Q.  Is this your ode to the Beatles?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: I don't know, I needed something warm today, and this is all I've got.   
 Q.  Can I ask for your general impressions of Sung Hyun Park?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: I love her game.  I think it's very unique.  I think she's just playing her game really well, and she's kind of self-taught, too.  I like her personally.  We played the International Crown together and I just love how ups herself to playing better golf, and yeah, it's good to have her on the Tour.   
 Q.  Do you admire the fact that she's self-taught?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: I don't know, I think we all are in this career at the end of it.  But I think she just has a different game, like Bubba Watson has a different game.  She has just uniqueness, and I think it's good to see on our Tour.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT