LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 16, 2015
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   Happy to be joined in the media center by I K Kim.   Tied for the lead; 10‑under.   How are you feeling heading into the weekend? 
I.K. KIM:   Hello.   I feel good.   Like I said, I feel like I played 36 holes, even though I had some rest.   But it was a lot of wind yesterday and again this morning, so I feel really happy with the result because you never‑‑ even though you hit a good shot, in this wind it can be anywhere really.
So I feel really good about how I played today and yesterday.
MODERATOR:   You brought it up a little bit, but you finished so late last night and you had the early time this morning.   How difficult is that for you? 
I.K. KIM:   Well, I think I'm used to getting up early so it's not really difficult to play early morning.   Now I have whole day to rest, so that's the good part.
MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   Coming out of the last tournament, was there anything in the break that you did to prepare for this tournament and the wind in particular?
I.K. KIM:   Yes, after Kraft ‑‑ No, ANA.   Sorry.   After ANA I spend a lot of times on the putting green.   I felt like I was hitting the ball really well, having a lot of opportunities, but putting was letting me down a little bit.
That's why I spend a lot of time working on putting.   Yeah, I went to Las Vegas, so putting and a little bit of fun and here, so that was I think kind of good balance. 

Q.   To follow up a little bit on what Matt was saying, yesterday you told us it was really late; time for all of us to go to dinner.   Did you have to change your routine?   Did you eat later and go to sleep later?   Did you get less sleep than usual?
I.K. KIM:   Well, what's nice about here is so many Asian restaurants around, and we just pick up Korean barbecue at one of those places.   So good dinner and good rest.   I sleep well and rested well.
Yeah, out here, like I said, very windy, so just hard to focus all the time.   I think my caddie helped me a lot with the numbers and I was able to manage.   I play really safe today.   I pick the conservative targets.
So I had some good lag putting and good up and downs to finish under par today. 

Q.   Last few days when you're in contention like this, can you play conservative or do you need to do something different to succeed this weekend?
I.K. KIM:   Even I'm in condition‑‑ I mean, in contention, I can't really play‑‑ I just only can do what I can do.   I just try to play my game, and that worked out well yesterday.
Even today I just felt like the greens got to be much smoother that I'm playing in the morning, but the good thing is the wind is blowing from the same direction.   That helped a lot. 
Couple pin positions today were very tricky, so I had to kind of play conservative on few holes.   But if you hit a good shot you will have opportunities and make some birdies out there. 
So just got to kind of balance out I guess. 

Q.   You mentioned Las Vegas.   I know good shopping, shows and everything, but are there some games you like to play there, too?   Do you have a favorite game?
I.K. KIM:   I don't really gamble, but last time I was there I was only 20.   My friends were like, We got to get out and have some fun.
So we went out to watch the water show.   We watched it twice, and then my friend said, Try the Russian Roulette, so I bet 100 bucks and I lost hundred bucks.
But I don't think that's worse thing that can happen.   Maybe next time I'll gamble smaller.

Q.   Not really Russian Roulette, the roulette wheel, right?
I.K. KIM:   Yeah.

Q.   Because Russian Roulette is something different. 
I.K. KIM:   Is it? 

Q.   Yeah, it's something dangerous. 
I.K. KIM:   Really?   The number was 24.   I got the color but...

Q.   So is 24 your lucky number? 
I.K. KIM:   It wasn't, that's why I didn't pick, but after that I been working on 24‑yard shots, and, you know, something 24. 

Q.   How old are you now? 
I.K. KIM:   I'm 26. 
MODERATOR:   Anything else for I.K.?   Appreciate the time.
I.K. KIM:   Bye.   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT