PORTLAND CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CAMBIA HEALTH SOLUTIONS
August 29, 2014
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Great round today, 5‑under.   Gotta be pretty pleased with that?  
I.K. KIM:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   What went out there?   Looked like you got started pretty well.   
I.K. KIM:   Yeah.   The greens are rolling much better in the morning, so that was kind of nice, and yeah, I hit the ball well, similar yesterday.   Yeah, I'm really pleased with how I played on the par‑5.   
   
 Q.   Barring a round this afternoon, crazy round this afternoon, you should have the lead.   What's kind of your takeaway going into tomorrow, what's your confidence level going into tomorrow?  
I.K. KIM:   You know, it's only Friday.   I'm really pleased how I played the last two days, and weekend I'm looking forward to it, and there is a lot of scores out there, so I think it will be a good week for all of us.  
   
 Q.   Coming into this week did you feel this coming?  
I.K. KIM:   You know, every week, I mean I just generally come out and really enjoy myself.   And just never‑ending process.   So I think I've been taking it well, yeah.  
   
 Q.   You've seen your friend So Yeon win, seen Inbee win.   Three straight Korean winners after kind of the Americans had won a lot earlier in the year.   Is that kind of cool to see that rivalry kind of go back and forth?  
I.K. KIM:   Really, I mean yeah, it's really nice to see friends winning, and you know you are so close‑‑ I mean after International Crown I feel I'm closer.   And yeah, it's fun to play better, and we really help each other, too.  
   
 Q.   So Yeon and Na Yeon said they had talked at International Crown about kind of the frustrations of not winning.   Were you in that conversation with them at all?  
I.K. KIM:   I don't know what they're talking about.   They win all the time.   And they're just so‑‑ they're really good players, and they also work really hard.   They don't really take it for granted, and I think that's why they play so consistently out here for a long time, and like you said, the Americans were doing great, so I think the competition is getting harder.   But I think it's in a good way.  
   
 Q.   Do you have a number in mind on the weekend that you need to reach?  
I.K. KIM:   I don't, but at this golf course you just gotta play your game every hole.   You know, there's no gimmes, but yeah, if you hit a right shot, you'll get rewarded.  
   
 Q.   Does this golf course fit your game pretty well?   It doesn't look like it's a long, bomber's golf course necessarily?  
I.K. KIM:   I think it's a good golf course.   It's not short.   It's not too long.   I think a lot of scores around the green.  
   
 Q.   First time with the lead for a while heading into a Saturday.   What's kind of your takeaway there?  
I.K. KIM:   Well, not really.   I don't really think about what's going on, but yeah, I won in Europe not long ago.   
And you know, golf you never know.   You just gotta play enjoy out there, and also just focus in the right time.   So it's good timing, good combination.  
   
 Q.   What did getting in the winner's circle in Europe do for you?  
I.K. KIM:   Right now I don't really think about it.   It's all past.   But I think it definitely‑‑ you know, it's kind of moments that you remember.   You kind of like I'm glad that I've been kind of going through all these things, and you know, it's nice to win one.  
   
 Q.   With how well So Yeon and playing at 8‑under, some of the bigger names, Suzann as 6‑under, pretty confident it's going to take another good strong round tomorrow to keep that lead?  
I.K. KIM:   You know, like I said, I don't really think about leading.   You never know until the last day on Sunday, last Back 9.   So I think we all have a good chance, and I'm glad I have tune to play my best.  
   
 Q.   You and So Yeon's dinner still planned?  
I.K. KIM:   I think we're going to go to Nike store first and see what's happening.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT