PORTLAND CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CAMBIA HEALTH SOLUTIONS
August 28, 2014
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Great round.   How did you feel?   You played pretty well in Canada, but coming in did you feel something was going to click this week?
I.K. KIM:   Yeah.   Like you said, I played well in Canada.   But the putting was a little bit‑‑ a little disappointed, but yeah, today I hit the ball well and made some putts coming down. 
This is really good golf course.   You have to hit the good shots and also make putts.   There's a couple of tricky pins, but I was able to manage. 

Q.   Overall very pleased?
I.K. KIM:   Yes.   Solid round, yeah.

Q.   Happy?   You've been taking time off.   What have you been doing?   What's been on the schedule for you?
I.K. KIM:   I don't know.   I don't feel I've taken that much off.   But yeah, I took a few weeks off International Crown.   I played an event in Korea, and then yeah, just take some family time and catching up with friends and stuff.

Q.   So you went back to Korea?
I.K. KIM:   Yeah.

Q.   What did that mean to get a win in England?   Was it England?
I.K. KIM:   Yes.   I really enjoyed it, you know.   It's always nice to win a tournament, and I also played very well on that week.   So very pleased, and yeah, my game's feeling good.   Just need to keep playing. 

Q.   Just keep going with it. 
I.K. KIM:   Yes.

Q.   Talk about the birdie streak on the Back 9.   Were you just in the zone?

Q.   What was going on there?
I.K. KIM:   Yeah, I had a good birdie on par‑5, on 10.   It was a makeable putt, but it was‑‑ a lot of putts were in the tree's shadow.   The shade was always on, so it was hard to read the putts on the Back 9.   But yeah, next few putts, like 10‑‑ 11 was kind of bonus.   Downhill putt so it was kind of bonus.   Good birdies coming in. 
And there is couple of tricky holes coming down the stretch, so I'm very pleased how I finished.

Q.   How much did you have expectations coming into the round seeing there was two 66s put up?   Did you think there was going to be lower scores in the afternoon?
I.K. KIM:   Seems like every week it's like 66, 65.   So I didn't really thought about scoring that much.   With this golf course you just gotta play your game, and then you get rewarded.

Q.   How about conditions?   Greens were okay?
I.K. KIM:   They were faster than last week, and yeah, it's really in good condition.

Q.   Hee‑Won and Jeong Jang are retiring.   The first generation kind of Korean golfers.   What do they mean to the tour and what did they mean to you, kind of growing up?
I.K. KIM:   You know, this is my 8th year on the tour, and I played with JJ and Hee‑Won the rest of my career until this point.   And it's so nice to be with like how you say, especially we are foreigner, which I feel very comfortable living in America, but we are from Korea.   So it's nice to have somebody always together, you know, even though we are traveling. 
So they opened the door for us, and now there's more Asian players coming in to the tour.   I don't know.   I really wish the best for them, and you know, they have amazing career and they have beautiful kids and families. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT