INTERNATIONAL CROWN
July 26, 2014
Na Yeon Choi
In-Kyung Kim
Inbee Park
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  KRAIG KANN:   Ladies, thank you for being here in the press room at the International Crown.   We have Team Korea here.   To my far left is Na Yeon Choi, I.K. Kim, Inbee Park and So Yeon Ryu.   The first thing that comes to my mind is, as you all sit here, you look exhausted and drained.   I mean, you're going into the finals tomorrow to play singles.   Na Yeon, are you okay? 
NA YEON CHOI:   A little tired. 
(Laughter.)
We had a pretty long day today.   Especially Inbee and So Yeon, they played really great in the playoff, Sudden death.   I think me and I.K., we still played well.   But Japan, they played so well, we can't control that. 
So, yeah, I mean, we have to play one more day tomorrow, and hopefully we can take a good rest tonight, and then come back with a great confidence. 
KRAIG KANN:   I'm going to start with the most recent thing that happened, then I'll work my way back to the matches.   Let's start with the playoff, you all and the UnitedStates.   So questions to you, So Yeon and also Inbee.   I think it's fairly amazing that the two top seeds end up in a playoff fighting for their Sunday livelihood.   Your thoughts on that, first of all, and then we'll get into the specifics. 
SO YEON RYU:   Honestly, it's always hard to beat the Americans, especially in the UnitedStates.   A lot of American fans are in here.   Lexi is a long hitter and I thought that she easily can make it in two on the par‑5.   So obviously I was pretty scared before I was going into the playoff. 
But today, our match was finished at the hole 15, then Inbee told me, This is what we have left over.   We haven't played 16, 17 and 18, so we're just playing good golf. 
So I got a lot of confidence from Inbee supporting me.   I was going to try to just think about the playoff, just think about my play. 
The other thing is, this tournament is playing for country, but at the playoff I was playing for Na Yeon and I.K. I just want to keep the really great energy for them.
KRAIG KANN:   Inbee, your thoughts on competing against the UnitedStates for the right to play in the singles.
INBEE PARK:   Well, it is very unfortunate that we had to play against the UnitedStates, because that was something that nobody really expected for us to be playing or to be seeing.   I think that it was really tough because they're great competitors and they had a lot of fans that are coming out and watching them.   They're great players.   And losing is always tough to accept. 
But it probably didn't really matter who we played against, we probably would try to play our best and just see what happens.   But this time we were the lucky ones.
KRAIG KANN:   One question for you, I.K., and then raise your hand we'll take some questions. 
I.K., sitting on the side watching a playoff that you were not a part of, we saw that Na Yeon was pretty exhausted after her match.   What were your thoughts?   How difficult was it to watch these two compete and you have no say so in whether you're going to play tomorrow? 
I.K. KIM:   I was totally trusting them.   They did such a great team, first of all.   I think from now on, I mean, I'm probably going to go to all their playoffs, just to watch.   It's just incredible to just be a part of it. 
KRAIG KANN:   Take some questions. 

Q.   Do you like the format and what does it say about the format that the top two seeds end up in a playoffs? 
INBEE PARK:   Well, obviously, with the foursome, I mean, just looking at the results, there has been a lot of upsets.   So everybody probably expected us and the UnitedStates against each other in the finals.   But obviously foursomes, I mean, four‑balls bring a lot of upsets and a lot of birdies from every other country. 
So I don't know.   Next time maybe we can try to do it a little bit different.   Maybe foursomes and maybe something that can really test everything.   This was really good test and it was hard, difficult.   But I don't know.   Maybe something different so we can have it a little easier.
KRAIG KANN:   So Yeon, let me get your take on the format, and also the fact that in the playoff, because this was brought up that both balls counted, I think there were a lot of folks that didn't necessarily know that.   You knew that, obviously. 
SO YEON RYU:   Well, the normal four‑ball, the format it doesn't matter who makes a bogey or double because if somebody makes a birdie or par, it's still okay.   But this format was still counted, the two players, so it makes it really tough.   Hole 16 could be the easiest hole, but either way also it's a really tough hole. 
So when I was chipping, I mean, especially the third shot, it was really tough one.   So I was just trying to make a par, I don't want to make a large number there.   So I think that the playoff format is a really great format. 

Q.   For anybody who wants to answer, it seems like you guys have the second biggest number of fans out there.   At least that's the way it seems.   They have the flags out there.   With the USA not playing tomorrow, do you feel like you're almost the fan favorite or going to have the biggest crowd out there? 
KRAIG KANN:   There was a lot of noise on the first tee for Korea.
I.K. KIM:   I know.   Especially they have two flags.   Each one person has two flags, so it looks more.   And Korean people can be really loud, too.   So I don't know, but definitely we are so grateful that they came out and cheered for us.   It's the first team and country event, and I think that it's very amazing how many people came and watched and cheered for us. 
Also, a funny thing is, Na Yeon's friend came from Taiwan to watch her play.   She's Taiwanese, but she's cheering for Na Yeon.   And I think that's what we have here, because we all play on LPGA Tour for more than seven or eight years, and we have so many good friends and fans out here that cheer for us.   I mean even though we're from Korea, they are very welcoming and warm.
We feel the same for LPGA Tour and the fans out there.   Because it a great opportunity for us to come out and play, even though I grew up here.   So I just feel very grateful. 
KRAIG KANN:   N.Y.C., your thoughts on the loud group of Korean fans at the first tee and throughout the golf course.   Even in the playoff, there were a lot of folks out there yelling.
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, I was surprised a lot of crowds were waiting until the late time.   I think a lot of people came from New York, they just drove to here and they're cheering for us with a lot of Korean flags.   I think when we see that, we got a lot of confidence and also motivation from them.   That's why we tried more hard, working hard, keep going.   I think that everything is like kind of make us like some good stuff. 

Q.   For So Yeon and Inbee, both of you know what it's like to play in a Major Championship, down the wire in a playoff even.   What did it feel like in a playoff today compared to in a Major in terms of nerves? 
INBEE PARK:   I think it's just really different.   It's really hard to compare because we never experienced Solheim Cup or something like this big before.   So it was something new to me because I always play individually, never really play for teammates or never really played for the country.
But I think it was really good experience because it's just something that I never felt before.   When I was playing in the Major Championships, when I was just playing for my titles, it was just, I feel the pressure, I feel the nerves, but I think this time I just didn't feel anything.   I was just so nervous. 
I don't know how I played the hole.   Yeah, I was just able to see the pin and that was it.   I mean, I couldn't really hear anything or see anything.   I don't know how I played that hole.   It was just something new and it's good to have it under my belt. 
So that will be a really good experience going into the Olympics and something, playing for country. 
SO YEON RYU:   When we drove to hole 16, Inbee and I also were talking about, you know, when I was going to U.S. Women's Open, I had a playoff, and I never felt this much nervous.   Then, in fact, this is my most nervous moment in my life. 
So, it's really memorable moment for me.   So, I mean, I can't forget this moment.   So it's really great.   Kind of like just confidence.   This is all about my country.   Normally if I lose a playoff, everything is just for me and I can handle everything.   But this time I have to think about Inbee, I.K. and Na Yeon and all Korean fans and all Korean people. 
So I have to think about so many things.   So that's the toughest part, and I think this experience definitely brings really great energy for all of my game. 

Q.   Inbee, can you tell us what you had in on your third shot on the playoff hole. 
INBEE PARK:   I had 70 yards playing up two yards, so 72 yards. 
KRAIG KANN:   One thing before you all walk out and head to tomorrow.   You all sat here three days ago and talked about the importance of the crown and potentially winning this for your country.   You've experienced three days of this competition.   Obviously it would mean a lot to win tomorrow.   But I would like to get your thoughts through three days of what this experience has been like for you and what the International Crown has been like.   What would you take away?   Let's start with you Na Yeon and we'll work our way down. 
NA YEON CHOI:   Well, the first day, actually before the first day, first hole, everyone was just so nervous and except me‑‑ or, I mean, also me.   Then after the first round, I talked a lot with I.K. about this format and this game, because we were so much caring about the results and losing for country, I think that we got so much pressure on ourselves, I think that's why we lost that first match. 
Then the second day, we came back with a lot of confidence, and especially Inbee and So Yeon won a match on first day, that's why we can have more confidence from them, and also kind of like motivation from them. 
So we had a really good game on the second day and we kept talking, that this is a great experience for future events.   I really never played with a team for the golf game, but this is like really different, and I think I'm going to be really lonely tomorrow without I.K. on the course tomorrow. 
SO YEON RYU:   Absolutely. 
KRAIG KANN:   I.K.? 
I.K. KIM:   Me, too. 
(Laughter.)
I'm just going to imagine Na Yeon is right next to me, probably.   But, well, this experience has been fantastic, especially just bonding with friends.   And we had the Lexis Cup before that was similar kind of format, but not like this pressure.   It was more casual and we were just enjoying playing. 
But definitely it's a new experience for me and I think for everybody. 
Great job, Kraig, you know.   I don't know how you made this kind of game up.   The golf is just totally different than I ever played.   I played golf for 15 years, but this is something very new.   I think it's a new pressure and I think it's going to make us stronger as a person.   I mean, the last three days were just totally different pressure and different kind of game.   I think that I brought everybody's good luck, I think.   It's just been fantastic and hopefully tomorrow will be the same. 
KRAIG KANN:   We're all glad to be a part of it.
I.K., Inbee, your thoughts? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I really agree with I.K. on that part, because this experience has been just really unreal.   It's been fantastic.   Yeah, I really think it's mostly building a friendship.   Because all four of us were very close friends, but not this close, that's for sure.   We saw each other's feelings.   We saw each other's pressure.   We saw every part of their mind. 
So it's been something that we really learned from each other.   And we always compete against each other, but this was something like team and for the country.   I think, yeah, just something really different.   So, yeah, I really am loving it this week.   No matter what the result is, just really enjoying every moment. 
Today's obviously a very tough day, but I played some good golf and hopefully we can bring the best out of it for tomorrow. 
KRAIG KANN:   So Yeon, your thoughts. 
SO YEON RYU:   Before we start this tournament, I didn't think I was going to be this much nervous.   Then yesterday, we lost a game, then I couldn't even sleep yesterday night.   I just kept thinking about it because I knew that I really don't want to go into a playoff.   So, I mean we really need to win two matches if we don't want to go into the playoff. 
So kind of like keep thinking about the golf in my bed.   Oh, if I didn't miss that putt, I might go into not that much pressure, that kind of thing. 
So it's totally new pressure, as I.K. and Inbee said.   So I think this tournament makes me stronger and stronger.   So I love this game and I really look forward to playing tomorrow. 
KRAIG KANN:   Each one of you is a big part of getting us here.   You'll be a big part of tomorrow in the final day. 
N.Y.C., I.K., Inbee, So Yeon, thank you very much.   Congratulations and good luck tomorrow.   We'll see you on the first tee.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT