SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 11, 2013
Shanshan Feng
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   I would like to welcome in Shanshan Feng and I.K. Kim into the interview room.   Great days out of both of you guys.   Shanshan, you're 10‑under now.   I.K., you're 9‑under.   Right in the mix within striking distance.   Shanshan, talk about playing with I.K. today, and how you played off each other?   Kind of positive vibes or anything like that going on?   
SHANSHAN FENG:   Well, it was kind of interesting because we got the same pairings, exactly same pairings as yesterday.   So this morning I saw I.K.'s caddie, Johnny, and we were talking.   We says maybe we want to play again tomorrow.   So I said let's meet at 10‑under, but I think because Johnny didn't tell I.K., so she didn't know.   But we still have a chance to play together tomorrow.   
I feel really good playing with Cristie and I.K.   They're very good players.   I mean, we were trying to make birdies and that was fulfilling.  
   
 Q.   I.K., you've been playing very solid all year.   Two runner‑up finishes so far this year.   Right on the brink.   You've had a lot of good top finishes.   Talk about how you felt this whole season and coming into this end of the year stretch?   
I.K. KIM:   Thank you.   This season has been interesting.   From the start I had a really good start of the year, and I had a good chance to win a few times.   I can't believe it's already over.   Time really flies this year.   
I'm glad to be here in Malaysia.   Everything's nice.   I mean, mostly the weather.   I think we've been kind of lucky.   Hopefully it stays dry.   Yeah, this week I'm very comfortable and confident playing this golf course.   I've played a few years and playing with Cristie and Shanshan last year.   So I mean, one‑‑ last week, yeah, in China it was an impressive finish.   So I think everything's going great.  
   
 Q.   You've had a busy week.   I saw you on Tuesday or Wednesday, I guess, and you had already done the Paris event, then you did a junior event.   You've been kind of doing everything.   Is it kind of a blur coming off of the win or has it helped a little bit keep your mind off things?  
SHANSHAN FENG:   Well, it was arranged before I won last week.   Of course, I'm really happy that I got a chance to actually help the LPGA in Paris event.   But it's good because I won last week, and there were many, many Chinese here this week.   I actually had like a welcome party.   It was a welcome party for me and another Chinese girl here this week by the ambassador of China.   So I've played with him for a few times in the Pro‑Ams, so we've known for a long time now.   It feels like still at home.   I feel like I'm still in China.  
   
 Q.   What night was that?   
SHANSHAN FENG:   That was, was it last night?   Hold on.   Oh, two nights ago.   I'm sorry.  
   
 Q.   I'm sure the golf course is playing differently from yesterday to today.   Can you tell us how different and how has it affected the course?   Have the rain changed things?   
SHANSHAN FENG:   I thought the rain was going to make all the fairways and greens softer.   So like the first hole I really went for it to try to land close to the pin, but it didn't stop.   It's still pretty similar as yesterday.  
   
 Q.   That's surprising.   I think they said they got over four inches of rain, did you expect it to be more?   
SHANSHAN FENG:   Yeah, I didn't expect it.  
   
 Q.   Let me go back to last week.   When you hit that second shot on the 18, what was going through your mind?   Because you sort of turned your head because it was going in the water?   
SHANSHAN FENG:   Yeah, thank you for your question.   I've been asked that question for ten times maybe or 20 times.   Well, let me explain one more time.   So that green is really long and flat.   I remember sorry, like long this way, not deep.   Then I aimed at the center of the green, and then the pin was on the right.   But I thought I wasn't long enough to carry the front right, so I aimed at the center of the green and just tried to have a chance for an eagle putt.   Then I hit it, of course, it curved.   It cut a little bit, so I was like maybe I wasn't making it to the green.   
Then I just heard all the crowd like Wahhh!   And I was like it should be on the green.   So I was really surprised, and I didn't know it hit the pin before I putt, actually.  
   
 Q.   Were you nervous when had you to putt?   
SHANSHAN FENG:   I was so nervous.   Well, I had the same distance for winning in the major last year.   But I would say I was more nervous this time.   I mean, I was there, I was doing my routine, and usually I stand over the ball and look at the hole once and then I putt.   I was like after I putt I felt like my legs were almost starting to shake.   I'm like, I have to just get it out there.   Then I make a stroke, and it lipped in.   So it was good.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
SHANSHAN FENG:   Well, I left China right away, four hours later.   I'm not really sure what they're doing back home.   But I was on that news of the day on the main channel in China, CCTV.   That is huge for golf.   I don't think any golf news has been on there, so I'm really happy.  
   
 Q.   Shanshan, you mentioned that you mentioned to your caddie about 10‑under.   Was that sort of the target that started the run?   
SHANSHAN FENG:   Maybe.   I mean, I didn't want to say anything like 5 or 6‑under, so of course we want to say a little higher, right?   Well, I never really think about it when I was playing.  
   
 Q.   You've playing well the first two rounds.   What is the key to that, do you think?   
SHANSHAN FENG:   Well, I think this course, I've had some good finishes on this course and I really like the course because you need to be really accurate.   If not, you'll get in bunkers.   If you get in rough or you get in bunkers, then you have chances to actually make bogies.   But I think what I've done well these two days were my driving and my iron shots were pretty accurate.   So it was fine.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
I.K. KIM:   I don't know.   It looks better than what it actually is, but the tape really helps playing.  
   
 Q.   Got the tan lines going, mostly preventive?   
I.K. KIM:   Mostly, hopefully.  
   
 Q.   You had a couple of weeks break.   You didn't play in China.   You played well in Evian.   What was your schedule like and what did you work on in your game?   Did you put the clubs away at all?   What was your schedule like coming into this week?   
I.K. KIM:   Yeah, after Evian, it was kind of the first time ever that I was with family for Thanksgiving in Korea.   So everything was closed down, so just spent time with family.   Little bit of practice, seeing old friends and things like that.   But, yeah, I think this week‑‑ I don't know.   I played last week in Japan, which I played last year in the Japan Open.   I think it kind of helped me coming over here to play.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT