U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2013
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tell us about your day, first of all?  
I.K. KIM:   It was great.   Well, just everything was fine.   I mean, I started off well.   I had a really good up‑and‑down on 1 and made par on 2, and I had a good opportunity.   It just was hard to make mistakes.   
Yeah, she said she was really comfortable, and I think I made her really comfortable.   I shouldn't have done anything like that, but I'm really pleased with how I played on the back nine.  
   
 Q.   Is there a lot of pressure on your game to play perfect, because she's playing so well, to have any chance to catch her?   
I.K. KIM:   You know, it's difficult because you know what you have to do, because I want to play my game, but you can't really avoid how many shots I'm behind and things like that.   So it's difficult.   But I just played with everything I've got, and that's all I can really do.  
   
 Q.   (No Microphone)?  
I.K. KIM:   Yeah, I think I had a really good chance out there.   I had some really good up‑and‑downs on, I don't know, the one that I chipped out and things like that.   But if I putted a little better this week, I think I could have pushed her a little bit more.   But I'm, as I said, I'm just happy with how I‑‑ actually, I putted better on the back nine, which I think is positive for me.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about how tough it is to win a major?   (No Microphone) can you talk about what Inbee's done, winning three straight on three totally different types of courses?   
I.K. KIM:   I think it's very impressive.   Even at the ceremony she said she doesn't want to think about the British Open and things like that.   But I'm not sure how much she has the pressure, but I think she's managing it really well.   Not many people can do that, you know?   
But, yeah, I think she's on the right track.   She's happy with her life, you know, not just golf, but she has her family together and friends and all that.   So I think that's what works for her.  
   
 Q.   When you say you made her comfortable, do you play with her all the time in practice rounds or something?   Is that why she got comfortable?   
I.K. KIM:   No, I think from that I think I could push her a little bit more.   I just felt like I had some momentum.   All the fans were great.   They were just rooting for me because, you know, they do that.   But I just wanted‑‑ as even other people said, I wanted to go out and make some drama, and I thought I had a good opportunity.   Four shots, you don't really know in a major any other tournament, but how she's playing and putting, it's just difficult.   
I think that's what I couldn't really get over on the front nine that I had to do something.   If I just played my game, it would have been fine.  
   
 Q.   (No Microphone)?  
I.K. KIM:   I'm not sure.   I kind of like playing in the final group.   I think it's going to be a good experience.   It's my first time actually finishing in the second, and I didn't know I would get this thing.   I think it's a nice souvenir.   So I'm very happy, you know?   Just little disappointed because, I mean, it's the U.S. Open.   But I'm really happy with everything.   So I just want to thank everybody.   
Like she was thanking her parents and everything, and I was like, me too, you know?   So, yeah, because I'm not here by myself.   There are a lot of my friends and fans and even my coach and everybody, they were just rooting for me and wished me all the best, and I'm just grateful for everything.  
   
 Q.   (No Microphone)?  
I.K. KIM:   Yeah, to be honest, yeah, it's time to win it, but I think things have to come naturally, and it's great to play with Inbee, and she's doing so well.   Seeing her doing it, it just makes me want it more.  
   
 Q.   (No Microphone)?  
I.K. KIM:   I think it's‑‑ we don't really think about it.   We don't really talk about it.   It just happens, and, it's just all the hard work.   And you know, we don't go back to Korea very often, and we move here.   It's different kind of thing.   You know, you travel, and you don't get to see your family all the time.   I think it just gives us a little bit of an edge, you know, from my perspective.  
   
 Q.   (No Microphone)?  
I.K. KIM:   I'm very pleased with everything that I'm doing.   I played really well last week, and this week I feel like I had a chance to win this tournament.   And I just need to keep doing what I'm doing.   You know, just gradually better a little at a time.   It's going‑‑ I'm going to have a good career if I do that, but it's difficult, you know?   
   
 Q.   Did you talk to anybody back in Korea?   Like how big is it doing what she's doing?   I mean she's all over the newspaper.   But something like this, do you hear anything back there?   Is it really big?   If she goes back, will she get a good reception?   
I.K. KIM:   I think this is really huge this week, because I mean, Se Ri Pak did such big things.   I mean, there are a lot of Korean players, but winning doesn't really give us a lot of credit, but I just think that what Inbee has done, I think that will really show a lot of Korean fans in Korea.   Because they can't really come and cheer for us all the time, but they wake up, and even my dad wakes up at 2 a.m. and watches it.   So there are a lot of fans out there that are rooting for all of us.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT