U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 2013
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Well played today.   You look a little tired.   Was it tough out there?   
I.K. KIM:   Yeah, I was tired.   But it was tough out there all day.   I'm not sure it was the wind that got me, but yeah, playing conditions was very tough.  
   
 Q.   There was a point on the back nine where she was 7‑under and you were 4‑under, three shots back, were you thinking maybe this is my chance to try to do something?  
I.K. KIM:   You know, I wasn't really thinking about how Inbee was scoring or other girls were scoring.   If you see my front nine, you know what I mean, you can't really think how other players are playing.   They were playing great, you know, especially on the front nine they didn't make any mistakes and I did.   I had some tough lies, tough breaks, but I was able to just stay focused.   
I mean, it's U.S. Open.   It's going to test you in every way.   That is how I kind of threw the thoughts.  
   
 Q.   So you don't look at the four‑stroke difference at all tomorrow?   You just play as well as you can and see what happens?   
I.K. KIM:   Exactly, you know she is putting great.   Even though the putts that she didn't make was really close and she is‑‑ I mean, she is putting well, especially out here.   You have got to putt well.   She is doing great.   I have just got to worry about my game, you know.   
I was a little all over the place this morning, but, yeah, I'm pleased with how I stayed focused and the back nine.  
   
 Q.   How did you get it back and keep it together?   What did you do?   
I.K. KIM:   Just take care of the small stuff, you know.   I missed a few putts, but you can't really think about how you are going to react upon the mistakes.   You can't really look back.   So that's what I did.  
   
 Q.   Mentally is it tough to know that you are going up against someone who is playing some of the best golf in women's history?  
I.K. KIM:   Yeah, but I think we all have a chance.   And I mean, yeah, I mean she is playing great.   But you neverknow, I might have a great day tomorrow.   So golf is different thing than other sports.   That's why you play four rounds.   She is playing great, so I have just got to play my game.  
   
 Q.   How is your wrist holding up?  
I.K. KIM:   Oh, my gosh.   The front nine I felt it was hurting because I feel like my body was aching, you know, in that first five holes.   But, you know, it's fine.   Everything is good.   So thank you for asking.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT