U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2013
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHRISTINA LANCE:   We're back at the 68th U.S. Open, here with I.K. Kim who had a great round today, a 69 following yesterday's 68.   Tell us how you felt out there today.   
I.K. KIM:   I felt good out there.   Typically I like afternoon tee times, but I was able to get up early and it didn't really look very nice this morning, but it turned out to be much better day.   
So that kind of helped a lot, you know.   Do you want me to go through‑‑  
CHRISTINA LANCE:   If you wouldn't mind going through your five birdies and two bogeys for us.  
I.K. KIM:   Well, I'll start on 18.   18, I started on 18, and 18 I made birdie.   I had 70‑yard front and 90 to the pin and kind of pulled the third short.   It turned out to be a good miss, so I made a three‑feet‑putt for birdie.   
Par‑3, I was a little too aggressive and I didn't make the coming putt.  
15, par‑5, I can't remember.   
And No. 8, par‑5, I lay‑up with 5‑wood and hit wedge 68 yards and I was right on the number and made the downhill putt for birdie.   
And 7, also birdie on par‑3.   It was tough wind, but I was able to get the right number and made a tough putt.   
On 5, oh, on that pin you cannot miss to the left bunker, but I did.   I had a chance to get up‑and‑down, but luckily I made the second putt.   I think that was kind of luckiest putt I ever made.   
And 2, the birdie at 2 was huge.   Hit 7‑iron downwind and it was about 15feet, I think, maybe 20.   I don't know.   But it was good putt to make.  
   
 Q.   What time did you wake up and how much tougher was today than yesterday?   
I.K. KIM:   Well, what time?   I got up before the alarm was off, so it always helps for me because I was kind of‑‑ the storm was like so bad, so loud, and I always like to sleep with the open window.   So last night it was a bit of a struggle.   But I will say I got up just before 5:00.  
   
 Q.   How much tougher was today than yesterday?  
I.K. KIM:   The weather?   
   
 Q.   The conditions?  
I.K. KIM:   Oh, condition.   It was just different.   Always different from coming from afternoon to morning because‑‑ but out here, I didn't know what to expect, but the greens are definitely softer from the rain.   But still it was really smooth, especially when you play the morning, the surface was perfect.   So I was able to make some putts.  
   
 Q.   After that bogey yesterday on 18, just how important was it in your mind that you had to finish strong?  
I.K. KIM:   What was the question?   
   
 Q.   After your bogey on 18 yesterday, just how important in your mind was it to finish as strong as you did today?   
I.K. KIM:   Yesterday I feel like I played pretty well yesterday on 18.   Whichever hole out here is not a given and I think I did pretty well.   
You know, bogeying 18 is not always kind of, you know, nice way to finish the day, but I was really pleased with my round and that happens‑‑ that can happen to anyone, you know.   That's how I kind of thought of it.   
And today started on the back nine and I just feel like‑‑ I didn't really think about No. 18 or 17 how much holes I need to play, you know.   Out here you have just got to play with everything you have and that's all you can do.  
   
 Q.   You have had a handful of top 5s in this Open before.   What's been missing and how hungry has that made you to get that close?   
I.K. KIM:   Well, I think it's just a part of the‑‑ everybody has ups and downs.   Definitely finishing top 5 in the U.S. Open is not a bad idea.   How to say, not a bad place, you know.   But definitely, there's times that I was disappointed.   But I think, you know, I just have a faith, you know, if you do your best and everything is going to be okay.   
And I think especially playing USGA tournaments I've just learned so much.   I want to thank the USGA and LPGA Tour for making me a better golfer.   And competing with so many great players out here, I feel like I'm fortunate to compete against them and keep growing as a golfer but as a human being.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT