U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2013
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   With the conditions did you think 3‑under was even out there today?   
I.K. KIM:   You know, it's really hard to project the score out here.   You just play hole by hole, maybe one shot at a time.   But, yeah, anything under par I thought was going to be a great score.   
This morning didn't really look, you know, good.   It was very‑‑ almost it was kind of sprinkling.   It turned out to be a better day and definitely more wind out there.   But greens were a little softer with the rain.   So I was able to give myself some chances.  
   
 Q.   Yesterday it sounded like you were surprised how generous the USGA was with the setup.   What did you think leaving the course that you might come back to today?  
I.K. KIM:   You know, that kind of‑‑ I was thinking about it but the rain last night where you hear that, the lightening and the pouring rain, and I was like whatever.   I have no idea what's going to happen, you know what I mean?   I didn't even know it was going to rain or, you know, the weather, you can't really project that.   
But I just try to do my best out there and just play with what they give us basically.  
   
 Q.   As a golfer is that how your mind works?   You hear rains at night and you start thinking how the greens will be tomorrow?   
I.K. KIM:   Yeah, definitely.   But there's nothing I can do what they are going to do because I'm not them.   I'm just trying to play the course that I think how I can play.   And when you can do that, I think you can score well.   
But it's still a U.S. Open.   There is a lot of golf to play you never know what is going to happen.   That is the beauty of major championship, I think.  
   
 Q.   With the different conditions today were there some clubs that didn't come out of your bag today that you wish yesterday‑‑  
I.K. KIM:   I didn't understand the question.  
   
 Q.   Were there some clubs that you used yesterday that you just didn't bother with today because of the change of conditions?  
I.K. KIM:   It played pretty much‑‑ I mean, similar.   The wind was a little different direction and it was changing a little bit.   But overall, it just‑‑ it didn't really surprise me.   But definitely tricky to adjust to the wind on some holes.  
   
 Q.   You have a combined score of 7‑under.   How do you feel going forward into the remaining days of the tournament?  
I.K. KIM:   Well, going forward, I came a long way the last two days, I guess.   When you start U.S. Open, you never‑‑ you can't really tell what score that you are going to have.   I think that kind of helps me too.   I don't really think of the score too much.   That is going to drive you nuts, I think, if you are going to think about numbers even any golf course.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT