U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2013
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHRISTINA LANCE:   We're very happy to have I.K. Kim with us:   six birdies, two bogeys, en route to a 4‑under 68.   I.K., tell us how you felt today out there?   
I.K. KIM:   Hi, guys.   Well, today, I played well today.   I just said it, but I had a rough start.   But I was able to get up‑and‑down on 1 and 2, so that gave me some confidence.   
CHRISTINA LANCE:   It would be great if you could go through your card real quick and let us know how all this happened?   
I.K. KIM:   I played well today.   Par on number 1, got up‑and‑down from the front of the green.   It was just a three‑footer.   
Number 2 was the same thing.   It was short and I chipped out and got up‑and‑own.   Par‑4, bogey, just misread it.   I hit the green, three‑putted.   
And 7, I don't remember.   I only played once this golf course, so it's just hard to remember all the holes.   But number 9, I remember hitting 52 to about 90 yards, so that was a good birdie.   
Number 8 also a par‑5, so just laid out my hybrid and made the putt, a short putt.   Just hit 6‑iron.   It was 160‑yards.   Yeah, got out there and it was only a foot away from the hole, so that was birdie.   
12 was a good birdie with 8‑iron.   It was about 133 yards.   That was actually a good putt that I made today.   
And 13, birdied par‑5.   18, first time I hit it out from the rough on the third shot and it was thicker than I thought, so I had to three‑putt, unfortunately.  
   
 Q.   The course was set up pretty short today.   Did that prove easier for you or was it a more difficult adjustment hitting to different places and having to maybe lay‑up more often off the tee?   How big an adjustment was that that the course was set up so short?   
I.K. KIM:   My caddie, I think, he had some headaches today.   He had to walk off from all the way back.   But for me, he gave me numbers where to hit it, and that's all I did.   But it was kind of surprising, because it wasn't like one or two, every hole was kind of moved forward.   So you can't really think about where the tees are different.   But I think definitely shorter makes it easier on a few holes, hitting irons to the green.  
   
 Q.   Just curious what's going on on your left arm with all the tape?   Did that have anything to do with why you only saw this course one time?   
I.K. KIM:   No, actually, that's not it.   But I had this problem last year, and I'm taking care of it better this year.   It just prevents small things.   Yeah, that's all.  
   
 Q.   So why the shortened schedule?   How come you only saw the course one time this week?   
I.K. KIM:   Well, I played 18 on Tuesday and 9 yesterday.   I got here on Monday night, so I didn't have a chance on Monday.  
   
 Q.   Do you like the set‑up?   The first time you saw this course, did you feel like it suited you?   It was good for your game?   
I.K. KIM:   It was a good golf course.   Everybody thinks it's one of the best golf courses that we play.   I mean, every year we're spoiled pretty bad, but this golf course is very interesting.   I'm very looking forward to playing the next three days.  
   
 Q.   How hungry are you to win a major championship?   
I.K. KIM:   I don't know.   I'm just happy with where I'm at, and it's one other tournament for me.   It's one of my favorites, so it will be great to win the tournament.   I feel very calm this week, so I'm looking forward to it.  
   
 Q.   Can you just talk about Inbee's play and how well she's doing?   Just what's so great about Inbee Park?   
I.K. KIM:   I'm very proud of her.   I've known her since we were little children, and she's a good player.   She's a great player and such a great putter.   I admire her with her putting and everything.   She's so calm.   I think she has a lot of qualities to be number 1 player.   Everybody's different.   We've seen many good champions over the years, and I think she's one of the better ones.   I think that's why she's been winning so many tournaments.   I mean, if she doesn't win, she finishes very close.   So I think if you put yourself in contention, I think that's what she's doing right now.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT