U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2013
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  I. K. KIM:   Today I had a great day.   I had a rough start, first and second‑‑ I mean, it's a tough hole, but I'm fortunate to up‑and‑down on those two.   Gave me some confidence going forward. 
I hit a lot of good shots today.   I had a lot of good chance.   My speed was good.   I was calm, so I think that's why I was able to score well today.

Q.   (Inaudible) that last putt? 
I. K. KIM:   The first one I misread it.   I thought it was straightforward.   It broke right to let. 
The second one, it broke more than I thought.   I hit it where I wanted it, but ‑‑

Q.   When was the last time you had a runof birdies like that that you had in the middle of the round?
I. K. KIM:   Well, I mean I played well last week.   And this golf course today was something different than what we played yesterday and the day before.   They moved the tee a lot forward, so it was tricky hitting off the tee. 
But once we got on the fairway, we had a good chance to hit a second shot.   So, I mean, I really didn't think about score or anything.   I just did what I can do.   I think I hit a lot of sweet spots today.

Q.   Has your confidence grown just from the start of the season? 
I. K. KIM:   This is my seventh year on the Tour.   This year has been very consistent and have some good chance going into the last day. 
I'm happy where I'm at.   I'm confident with my game.   And I'm generally just very calm, so I think that's kind of‑‑ you have got to have some like harmony.   You can't really play golf too much or too less, so I think‑‑ also, I have a lot of support system and that really helps. 

Q.   I know it's early, but how eager have you been toget in the hunt to win a major?
I. K. KIM:   You know what, I'm just really happy with my life.   I mean, it's great when to win a major championship.   I feel great this week.   So I'm not really pushing anything.   I just got to go out and play my game.

Q.   Is it nice to see your name on top of the leaderboard?
I. K. KIM:   I get excited.   When you are playing well, you don't think about it too much.   But you can't‑‑ there is times you feel a little nervous.   I think that's just kind of part of the game.   If you are not nervous or you are calm, that's not human.   But that's my little‑‑ does that answer the question? 

Q.   (Inaudible)? 
I. K. KIM:   It's good.   Without it, it hurts.   But with it, it helps.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT