KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 2, 2013
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KRAIG KANN:   We'd like to welcome three‑time LPGA Tour winner, I.K. Kim, into the media center here at the Kraft Nabisco Championship.   What have you been doing today?   Busy out practicing?   
I.K. KIM:   Little bit of practice; little bit of eating, walking, like everybody does.   How you guys doing?   Good.   
KRAIG KANN:   You've got a smile on your face.   You entered this week fifth on the Money List.   That shows signs of a good season.   I think people remember you had a close call very recently.   Tell us where your game is and reflections on this particular opportunity.  
I.K. KIM:   I feel really exciting.   This year has been‑‑ I can't believe it's already April.   It went really fast.   I had a great time in Asia.   I love those tournaments.   And Phoenix.  
Last week at home, I mean, I got to say at home and sleeping in my own bed.   You know, no complaint.  
KRAIG KANN:   You finished 13th at RR Donnelley, second at the Kia Classic.   Thoughts on the Kia specifically and the opportunity to win there.   
I.K. KIM:   You know, I was so bummed that I wouldn't get to drive that Kia Cadenza.   Other than that, I had so much fun, you know.   I played well and I had fun, and all my friends and family was there.   
Yeah, it was interesting that night, wasn't it?   
KRAIG KANN:   Specifically, yes.   How did you feel about the finish?   
I.K. KIM:   I feel good.   I feel like my game is getting better.   There is always room to grow, but I feel like it's improving every week.   It's all I've been asking, so, yeah.   
KRAIG KANN:   We'll take some questions.   Specific to the majors, I.K., 11 top‑ten championships and you haven't quite gotten to the winner's circle just yet.   I think everybody in this room knows about what happened last year.   I applaud you for saying, yes, absolutely I'll do a news conference and talk about it.   You did the same thing last year after it ended.  
A year removed from that year last year where you had the chance it win, what are your thoughts?   
I.K. KIM:   First of all, yes, I've been in contention, I can't believe, 11 times.   It's exciting.   I love major championships because of the history.   We get spoiled like coming out here and playing in perfect conditions.  
That's what I love about playing majors and being as a professional golfer.   Sometimes it's not easy because whole world is looking at you and see your results and things like that.   
But, yeah, I learned a lot.   I think last year was big turning point of my life of learning and what's really important.   It just gave me different view of it.   
Well, so, look back, it was tough to handle at first, but I think it's important not only to the viewers and the people, but to let other people, younger generation, to know that it's not always going to be glorious and like victory.  
Life is not about winning or losing.   When you're 80 and look back, you're not going to remember, Oh, I should have make that putt.   I mean, when you're 80, it's more about how much you have fun and enjoy your life.   
Yeah, that's how I look at it.  
KRAIG KANN:   You stood there for an hour or more at the end of the event last year answering every question and said, No problem.   Was that something you felt look you needed to?   How did you look at the way that finished?   
I.K. KIM:   Just answering your question about answering questions and interviewing after, if I won the tournament I would have done it.   If I finished second place, I need to do it as well.   Not always when you're winning the tournament.   People want to hear the winning stories and all the things.   I mean, that's what it is.   
But finishing second, third, whatever you finish, I don't think your attitude needs to change about talking to people.   
So...  
KRAIG KANN:   Questions.  
   
 Q.   Has a week or day gone by when somebody hasn't talked about that putt?  
I.K. KIM:   No.   My coach said there is big elephant sitting right here that you could not see it‑‑   or I guess you could see it.   
Yeah, I get the question all the time.   I can't really control what other people think or what they want to ask.   I can't really change their mind.   I can't really explain what had happened and what I learned.   
But I can control my thoughts.   I just know there are so many people supporting me no matter what I do.   I really appreciate that.   I get criticized for that putt.   That's what they think and believe, so I don't really...  
   
 Q.   Seemed like in the weeks after there were a lot of people who did give you a lot of support.   It was more like if anybody was going to miss the putt it should be you because you could handle it.   Did you feel a lot of support from fellow players at that point?  
I.K. KIM:   Yes, I still get all the time.   Yeah, now I know who is a true friend, I guess.   But, well, everybody on the tour, maybe not in front of so many people, are missing short putts.   All the golfers have missed that putt.   It doesn't feel good or great, but it happens.  
Nothing you can control.   Even Stephen Hawking said in the time travel you cannot go back and do things backwards again, so you just got to live today.   We're human.   We remember things good or bad.   You sometimes live in that memory, and I don't want to be that person.   
I choose it and everybody can choose their own story or life.  
   
 Q.   I was talking to your mental coach because I know you sought out the advice of them.   They said that you were kind of frustrated that you weren't being asked the right questions about this.   What did you learn from this whole experience about yourself, and what do you want us to know about it, about the missed putt?   
I.K. KIM:   Well, I don't know.   What's the question about?   Like what you feel about the whole thing last year?   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   You've learned a lot from this.   You're a deep thinker, they're but you're getting shallow questions.   What are the questions we should be asking you in terms of what you've learned?   
I.K. KIM:   I just think that this game really teaches a lot, you know.   I'm sure there are people struggling right now.   You know, I don't know, some people are dying from hunger, and you don't see that in everyday life.  
There are people dying and everything is happening.   So some people think it's really tough and feel sorry for what happened.   I just think that it doesn't matter what happens.   What matters is what you do after, how you're going to come back, and what you're going to do the next time.   
You know what I mean?   
So I think what I'm saying is sometimes you got to just pick yourself up and be tough and just move on.   Don't really feel sorry for yourself, because it's life.   You have to be happy and enjoy what you have is I think what I've learned.   
A lot of times that I look and think about results and I want to win this and that and be better, that's great, but I think you either live life happy or unhappy.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
I.K. KIM:   I don't know what that means either.   It can be anything.   I just want to be who I am.   I can't be Annika Sorenstam.   I'm just who I am, and I just got to accept it.   
KRAIG KANN:   Does it make the next victory that comes your way ‑ you've got three right now ‑   even more important to you?   Are you more motivated than ever to get that next win now?   
I.K. KIM:   Yeah.   It'll be fun to win the tournament.   I wouldn't be here if I don't want to win the tournament.   I'm happy where I'm at.   If I win the tournament, great; if not, I'm still going to keep playing, so...  
KRAIG KANN:   Two questions:   Your parents and Tiger Woods are the people that most influenced your career according to the bio information that you put out in the LPGA player guide.   Talk about the impact of Tiger in your professional career.   What did he do?   How did he inspire you?   
I.K. KIM:   Has he inspired you too or he hasn't?  
KRAIG KANN:   I think he's inspired a lot of golfers.  
I.K. KIM:   Yes.  
KRAIG KANN:   So was it when you watched him win the Masters in '97?   What did he do specifically to get you motivated?   Just watching him?  
I.K. KIM:   Yes.   Just fascinating to watch him.   Because you do it all the time and other people watch and other people really make it happen.   It's fascinating watch.   He inspired a lot different people, I think.   
Me, as a kid, I watch him play on TV and I read a lot of different books‑‑ even when I was in Korea.   I thank all the TV industry that I could watch TV and be inspired and I'm here.  
But not only Tiger Woods.   I get inspired every day talking to you or doing these things or meeting different people.   I think that's really fortunate playing golf.   I get to meet a lot of people.   It just shapes my life.  
KRAIG KANN:   You're also a spokesperson for the Special Olympics.   Share some stories about what that means to you.   
I.K. KIM:   Wow, I don't know where to start.   Just makes me speechless when I work with Special Olympic athletes, their dedication and their‑‑ it's just‑‑ all I'm really asking people is to just be aware.   Because I get the opportunity all the time, but when you have disabilities, sometimes people judge you as a disables person.  
But I never seen them crying or angry.   They're always happy and they always give a hug.   They're so supportive.   They don't judge you as a golfer.   They don't care I.K. Kim or whoever comes.   They treat you as a person.   I want them to live in the community as who they are.   
KRAIG KANN:   Questions?   Anybody else?   Last thing:   You thought about the leap into the pond?   
I.K. KIM:   I can see it.   
KRAIG KANN:   You got a robe ready?   I think this could be a good week for you.  
I.K. KIM:   I don't know.   I have an idea if I win.   I think it'll be fun.   I don't know how I'm going to jump it, but I have some funny ideas.   So I hope that I get to win just for doing that.   
KRAIG KANN:   Thank you for coming in and sharing everything you shared about last year.   It's really impressive, and we wish you all the best this week.   
I.K. KIM:   Thanks.   Have a good week, guys.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT