JAMIE FARR TOLEDO CLASSIC PRESENTED BY KROGER, OWENS CORNING AND O-I
August 11, 2012
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   I'd like to welcome I.K. Kim to the interview room.   Thanks for coming in.   Good round today.   Could you start out by telling me what you did well.   
I.K. KIM:   I had a good day.   I think overnight it rained a lot so the course was definitely playing more soft.   The greens were rolling a little slower than yesterday because of the rain.   
Sometimes it's really hard to adapt to that right away, but I think I did that pretty well today.   That was the key with the putting.   
Yeah, just feel good.   I think my game is getting better.   Yeah, try to learn something every day.   
THE MODERATOR:   I know you lost in a playoff here in 2011.   Does it feel good to be back in Toledo?   
I.K. KIM:   Definitely, it feels great.   This is one of my favorite tournaments.   I came here on my rookie year.   Yeah, I really missed it last year.   It's always nice to see all my friends out here.   They knew me since I was 18.   
Yeah, I love the atmosphere and the fans are great, so...   
THE MODERATOR:   I know you have one more day, but you haven't won since 2010.   How would it feel to get another victory?   
I.K. KIM:   You know, I'm having this opportunity, so it's great.   Everybody works really hard.   I've been working really hard with my game.   I'm already happy seeing the progress.   Tomorrow I'm just going to keep having fun.   You know, I have to play my own game.   
Definitely there's a lot of good players on the top of the leaderboard.   I think it will be a great Sunday.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions.   
   
 Q.   You've taken it down a little lower each day.   What have you picked up along the way that's helped?   Do you think that will carry into tomorrow?  
I.K. KIM:   Well, I think I'm in a great place, not only on the golf course.   I'm happy on and off the golf course.   I think that's really important.   
There's times you get tired of practicing, all that.   But I feel much more refreshing on the golf course.   I think that's why I'm learning every day, picking up a little bit.   Little mistakes, you will make mistakes, but you have to learn from it.   I think I did that pretty well.   
Try to keep having fun and also playing well.   I think that will be the key tomorrow, be open‑minded, appreciate everything.   
   
 Q.   You have five South Koreans filling the top five spots here.   Who worries you the most?   Who is the best player of those five?   
I.K. KIM:   Wow.   Every week is different, I'll have to say (laughter).   Everybody works so hard, not only the Korean players, but there's a lot of good players out there.   
I think it will be really exciting Sunday.   There are players that I grew up with.   I know them personally and I know their family issues and all that (laughter).   So even though we're playing in the U.S., having them around, I feel much more like home.   That's the success that comes, that really helps playing out here.   Yeah, so they're doing really well.   
I think they all like this golf course, by the way.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
I.K. KIM:   You got to hit pretty straight.   You have to be consistent.   I think all the Korean players are pretty consistent with the ball‑striking.   This golf course, you have some opportunities.   
There's a few holes you have to be a little more conservative.   But there's par 5s.   Some are reachable, which I'm not.   I have my wedge in my hand, so I'm pretty happy with that.   
You know, all those things, you have to do the right thing and don't be too frustrated by the little things, then you'll have a good day out here.   So that's what I've learned.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
I.K. KIM:   I just talked to my caddie, Oh, today we're definitely in Toledo, we're back in Toledo.   It was windy, kind of hazy.   It feels right.   
The first couple days when we had the practice round, it just played totally different.   It was dry and hot and humid.   
Yeah, we were playing the (indiscernible) the last few days.   Felt a little soft.   We got the mud and stuff.   You just got to be flexible with the weather out here.   
I don't really plan out what I'm going to do tomorrow.   I'm just going to get up in the morning, see the window, what it's like, and you have to adapt to it, play good as you can, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Coming in you had two missed cuts and a 24th at the Evian.   You said your attitude is good right now.   Any one thing that's changed or just an overall good feeling going on right now?  
I.K. KIM:   Good question.   
I don't know.   I had a little injury after Kraft.   I think that's coming from overworking, all the different things.   I feel much better now.   I think I pushed myself a little too hard in the summer, all the scheduling and things that I made a little bit of mistake, I would have to say.   I'll do that better next time when I'm in that position.   
But definitely I feel much fresh.   I think it's a learning process.   Whatever I'm doing, it's working.   I just need to keep doing.   But I'm 24.   There's things I want to do.   Life is so much full of fun stuff.   Sometimes I look back, Is this really what I wanted to do?   
But if I didn't play golf, and I'm really fortunate and I feel lucky to have this opportunity at my age, to be able to travel and meet people, yeah, so that's where I'm at.   
I just need to keep working hard with golf 'cause nothing comes easy.   That's what I'm learning.   Yeah, having good people around me, I think that's number one most important thing in everyone's life, so...   
   
 Q.   You became pretty well‑known for that missed putt at the Kraft but better known for how you handled it after.   Can you talk a little bit about that.   
I.K. KIM:   Well, I don't know.   I have had this interview before.   But definitely I think there's always reason for something.   You know, I had so much fun playing Kraft.   I will have another opportunity next year, if I'm able, if I want to.   
Yeah, I learned a lot from the Kraft.   I learn how many people really care about me.   It's very nice to have good people around me so I focus on the right things and pick out positive stuff.   So that's what I learn, yeah.   
But I definitely wish it went in, but what can I do.   You know, I'm here today.   Nothing happened.   You know, just experience, I guess.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
I.K. KIM:   Thanks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT