RR DONNELLEY LPGA FOUNDERS CUP
March 16, 2012
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Great playing today.   
I.K. KIM:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   What was it that was really working well for you out there to be able to shoot 6‑under today?  
I.K. KIM:   Yesterday I thought I played really well, but the speed of the green was a little off, and today I had better ‑‑ I was actually hitting closer a couple times, and it helped with the putting.   
But yeah, this golf course, if you are ‑‑ you can get to some short holes, make birdies on those holes and birdies on par‑5s, I think you can go like really low, but still, you gotta play with the bounce and the green and the wind in the afternoon and everything.   So I think it's a good golf course for a lot of players, including myself.  
   
 Q.   Coming off a strong finish in Singapore where you played really well, do you feel pretty good about your game right now overall?  
I.K. KIM:   I am.   I think I'm getting better.   That's actually obviously my goal, getting better each tournament and learn something, and yesterday I learned a couple of things that I worked on on the range, and today was a much better day.   But I still gotta keep working on the right things, so yeah, hopefully better tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Anything specific you're working on with your swing right now?  
I.K. KIM:   I'm just working on a few things, you know, good takeaway, and coming to the shot and a few things, but everything's well.   
Just my ankle is a little bothering me, but it's not major.  
   
 Q.   I was going to say, what happened?   I just saw it taped up.   
I.K. KIM:   I don't know.   It's always been kind of too loose, and some parts are tight, so I got some kind of combination, so I just have the tape on.   And I think, yeah, it feels fine.  
   
 Q.   It's amazing what that tape can do.   In terms of ‑‑ I know it's only Friday, but to be up near the top of the leaderboard two days into the event, how pleased are you with the position you've put yourself in through two rounds?  
I.K. KIM:   I'm very happy.   I think I'm progressing.   I think that's very important.   And I would still like ‑‑ I think I left a few putts out there, but everybody has the same story, I guess.   So I just gotta keep playing good golf, hit some good solid shots, and kind of enjoy on the weekend.   It's early in the season, so I'm happy to kind of come back and play out here, and it's my first time playing this course, and everything is fantastic.   Everybody's very nice.   So I'm happy to be here.  
   
 Q.   Perfect.   Thank you.   Great playing.   
I.K. KIM:   Thanks.   I'll see you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT