LORENA OCHOA INVITATIONAL BY BANAMEX & JALISCO IT HAPPENS WITH YOU
November 12, 2011
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We would like to welcome defending champion, I.K. Kim into the interview room. Putting yourself up there on the leaderboard again can you take me through your round today? 
 I.K. KIM: Thank you. I had a good round today, last two days I couldn't really start early so it was tough on me to play on the back nine but, you know, this golf course you've got to play not too aggressive -- you have to play in between -- you've really got to play smart. 
 I think I did that pretty well today, but the back nine as Suzann said the wind was tricky, not going in the same direction all the time. 
 So it was hard to adjust, but I feel confident and I enjoyed to see everybody out here again. 
 THE MODERATOR: Coming in you were 4 shots behind the leader. You came from behind last year by shooting a great round on the final day. How confident do you feel about your chances sitting where you are right now heading into Sunday? 
 I.K. KIM: Well, I'm really tired right now, I don't know why but I still feel -- I still have a little jet lag from last week and I'm trying to focus on every shot but I have to tell myself, "I.K., wake up," whatever. So it's a little different than last year, but definitely this golf course, you know, last year I was really close to Suzann, and then I started making birdies on the back nine and, you know, I had a couple of roles and then I was leading the tournament, but it was really close last year. 
 I think this year is going to be similar. Catriona is playing great and Suzann as well should play well so there is a lot of, I think, potential, everybody could chase Catriona tomorrow. So that's a fun thing to do and being in contention. 
 THE MODERATOR: In each of the last three years you've picked up -- you've had at least one victory on the LPGA TOUR; this year so far no victories. Do you still feel like good about how you have been able to play this season. Would it mean even more now, waiting all year?
 I.K. KIM: You know, there is a lot of great players out here and you've got to put your "A" game out all the time. But definitely not winning a tournament, it's not easy, but especially golf, you play four rounds in the week and it's not easier to boost up yourself. 
 But at the same time I really enjoy traveling around and seeing -- meeting new people and especially defending this title. I have a chance to win tomorrow, I think that's something that I always kind of look forward to and that's why I practice. 
 I think everybody has the same, you know, mentality, but that's why I play golf. I would like to win tomorrow but I have a lot of chances going on. Next week is the last tournament of the year, but I'm having fun out here so that's the most important thing for me. 

 Q. Do you feel somehow you're a favorite since you donated part of your winnings to Lorena's foundation? 
 I.K. KIM: I didn't really know it was going to be big -- there for all the world. It was something I wanted to do if I won a tournament, but it wasn't really -- I don't know, but I definitely feel welcome out here, and I'm very grateful to have been part of Lorena's foundation, and I would like to continue that in this tournament. I feel humble by Lorena. She does the thing, I'm just trying to learn from the idol that I had, so I'm just trying to follow her foot steps. 

 Q. I.K., with winning last year, what do you think will be the key for tomorrow's match?
 I.K. KIM: Well, good question. You've just got to be patient on this golf course. Some holes I can't really get to, like a few holes, there's three from the side and -- but I've just got to feel confident in the morning and do my routines and on the tee and do the round. It could have been lower today, or yesterday, but hopefully tomorrow is my day. 

 Q. I asked Suzann what they thought about the 18 now that it's shorter. Of course Suzann is a long hitter, but you are a short hitter, so how much -- I think that's a good chance for you guys who don't hit it as long, not to have to hit it so long, so what do you think about it? 
 I.K. KIM: Well, today it didn't really make much difference for me, because I couldn't -- I didn't get to the bunker yesterday, but I could get to the bunker today, so I had to hit it between the tree and the bunker, like 10-yard gap, so I think it's fun. If I hit perfect tee shot somehow then I will have a perfect 3-wood to the green. But you know, this week has been difficult for the par 5s, when I can get to the green. It's tough, but either way you have your favorite number or you try to be aggressive but, I don't know, I don't really care about tee being front or back. 
 I think it doesn't really change much. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you I.K. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT