LORENA OCHOA INVITATIONAL BY BANAMEX & JALISCO IT HAPPENS WITH YOU
November 9, 2011
In-Kyung Kim
Lorena Ochoa
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Everyone, we'd like to welcome back tournament hostess Lorena Ochoa and two of our former champions are here with us, Michelle Wie, who won the event in 2009, and our defending champion I.K. Kim. 
 First off, ladies, thank you for joining us today. Congratulations. Congratulations on your pregnancy. Can you just give us a little update on how nice it's been since we last saw you? 
 LORENA OCHOA: I'd like to thank you for being here. It is fun for me and in a different way being here in the tournament outside the golf course. I'm trying to enjoy. Now this is a different way for me. I'm also trying to get ready for being a mom and then I think I am ready for this. You never get ready enough. But I'm very excited. 
 It's great to see all of your, your faces, and especially wanted to welcome and thank you for being back. 
 THE MODERATOR: This is the first time you haven't played in this event. How different is it for you to be here in a different perspective not being on the golf course? 
 LORENA OCHOA: We were confused because I answered that. I was telling them that it's fun. It's something that I'm trying to enjoy. You know, it's different that's for sure. It's also great for me to say he to the players and be more involved outside the ropes and in interviews and spending time with my sponsors some of the time. I like it a lot. I'm going to enjoy every day of the tournament from the outside.
 THE MODERATOR: I was going to ask I.K. about her donation last year, her winnings. I know it meant a lot to you that she donated half of her winnings to your foundation, and you guys got together in April and went to the school and enjoyed that. What does it mean to you to have I.K. make that donation? 
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, for sure, you know it was -- we all talk about it and it was a great surprise to be here on Sunday and be given the news. From the bottom of my heart, I always want to say thank you and she knows. Her visit was very special. It's different when you see the real school activities and see how much fun they have and how happy they are. They are clean and their uniforms and the facility and all of that. We put her plaque and her name (indiscernible). So you know she's appreciated for the rest of her life. I appreciate that for everything. 
 THE MODERATOR: What's it like being here back here as defending champion? What did it mean to you when you did make that visit in April to see all the kids and how excited they were? 
 I.K. KIM: I'm happy to be here and see Lorena having fun with her family. It's really nice to be here defending my title. Also I went to the school earlier this year and, you know, it was very nice of her and her foundation to make efforts for me to come back to see the school was really, you know, it's nothing to compare to what Lorena does with her foundation. I was really humble going there and seeing all the kids so happy. I mean, they do have a lot of good different activities for the kids and I think, you know, what she does is really -- means a lot to the kids but also to their families. So it was really nice to go there. I'd love to go back some time. 
 THE MODERATOR: I.K., you talked a little bit about your season, coming back where you won last year. You haven't had a win since then but you have been playing well. Talk a little bit about what this season has meant for you. 
 I.K. KIM: This season has been a little different for me. I started really well earlier. Then I had a little injury so I had to take some time off. Other than that, I played really well in the summer. I had a lot of fun. The last couple of weeks we were in Asia. I'm still adjusting to the time difference, but it's been exciting. 
 Yani has been playing auto so this year. So I really like win this week. I haven't done it before, winning twice in a row. So that would be something that I look forward to. But I'm really happy to be here this week. 
 THE MODERATOR: Michelle, this is a place where you became a Rolex First Time Winner. I'm sure there are special memories every time you come back here.
 MICHELLE WIE: For sure. This tournament is very special to me. Obviously having my family here is pretty cool. I love this golf course. Unfortunately, you know, it was very sad last year that I couldn't finish four rounds. Hopefully this year, I'm feeling good. The weather is great. The golf course is awesome, as always. I'm very excited. 
 THE MODERATOR: We talked about everybody having busy schedules with the way the tournaments go. For you, you have been going back and forth between Asia and then back to school and then now here in Mexico. What is that like for you to try to balance all of those things at once? 
 MICHELLE WIE: It's nice. It's crazy. It's a crazy schedule. I don't know what I do with myself. But it's fun. It's been good being back for a couple of weeks. It's nice to also be back here playing for the next two weeks. 
 I finished a homework assignment, scanned it in yesterday. I have a few papers to write that are due on Friday that I haven't started yet, so it should be interesting. 
 Aside from that, it's not bad. Hopefully just grind for a couple of months and graduate in March. 
 THE MODERATOR: I'd like to open it up for questions. Anybody have questions for these wonderful three ladies? 

 Q. There's always room for improvement (indiscernible). 
 KYUNG KIM: I don't know. I feel like -- even with school right now I have all the time I want to practice. Obviously there is that other element where I have to go back and I can't rest and I have to do homework. 
 At the same time, I don't know, there is a lot of room for improvement that is there. There is a lot to be done. Every year, school or no school, I work my very best to try to improve. I do feel like I need to improve a lot. Just keep working hard at it. I think it will be a little easier with no school. At the same time, it's a good experience right now and getting my degree is very important to me. 

 Q. Last year we all know that you gave a share of your winnings to the Lorena Ochoa Foundation. Have you thought of having your own foundation some time soon or is it just not happening? 
 I.K. KIM: Well, definitely one day I would like to have my own foundation and I've been research a lot of different charities that I really -- well, I'm really -- I like to help others, especially the kids. I think that is what make it is difference in the future. That's what I really wanted to do in the future, but I'm still in the progress of having my own foundation. 
 I think, you know, that's why Lorena makes a difference. It's a lot of work, you know. It's not that you just have your foundation and have other people. It really has to be coming from your heart. I would like to have my own foundation in the future but not at the moment. Thank you. 
 THE MODERATOR: Any more questions? Thank you very much ladies. Best of luck to I.K. and Michelle. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT