CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 25, 2011
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome I.K. KIM to the interview room. A nice round today that was mostly nice on the back nine for you. You made the turn at even, and then you holed out for eagle on the 10th hole on. Was that the turning point of your round, do you think? 
 I.K. KIM: It was. Well, on the front nine I was a little struggling with iron shots. But the back nine, after that three on 10 -- 1 actually was the turning point. Then I had kind of better -- you know, everything was kind of clicking after that.

 Q. Can you just talk about being here in Montreal, the CN sponsorship. Have you seen anything you want to do in the city? Have you experienced anything here? 
 I.K. KIM: This is my first time being here in Quebec, and the whole experience has been awesome. The volunteers are super nice. Yeah, I love to go to the city. I've seen the pictures and it looks really classic and kind of European style. 
 I'm not sure. I can practice on my French and watch a Broadway show.

 Q. You speak any French? 
 I.K. KIM: I try a little bit, but I don't know. It's very, yeah, difficult to learn.

 Q. Can you just tell us, you're allowed to lift, clean and place today, your lies, was that an advantage? Did you see areas where there were problems with mud getting on the ball in the fairway today? 
 I.K. KIM: I think it was a good call because you never know what the weather is going to be and it was kind of wet even before we started, and yesterday was a little muddy. 
 But I think it's in good shape, but definitely there are a few holes that we really needed to clean the ball because we're not hitting wedge out there. We're hitting hybrid and longer clubs. So, yeah, it would have been very difficult without doing it.

 Q. What was the goal you set for yourself before the tournament started? Did you want to make the cut? What was your main goal coming in? 
 I.K. KIM: My main goal was to kind of work on my game this week. You know, there are times that you have A game in the tournament. But there are a few things I'm working on, so I just wanted to see and experiment what's going on the golf course. 
 I had my short game coach came the last few days, so we worked on a few little things. I was just focused on little things, kind of aiming and you know starting online. So I definitely was working on my -- you know, that was my game plan.

 Q. You said you struggled on the front nine starting on 10? 
 I.K. KIM: It wasn't a bad struggle, just, you know, I just said it, so I was working on a few things. It was hard to have confidence at first. But I think everything kind of built up, and I had a really good up-and-down on the front nine. So I think that kind of saved me, and I got some momentum going to the back nine.

 Q. If this course dries out a little bit over the weekend, do we see fewer red numbers on the board? Today is your first day, but being soft it was scoreable, right?
 I.K. KIM: Well, yes and no, because it plays definitely longer for me. I hit a lot of hybrids and long irons into the green. So I think you've got to take advantage on the par-5s. Then on the weekend I'm sure it's going to be the firmer, and you've got to be below the hole and there are the holes you can attack. So you've got to play smart. 
 If you play smart and you make some putts, I think you can have a good score, but it can be a difficult course. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT