TOTO JAPAN CLASSIC
November 2, 2018
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What a fabulous start here at Seta Golf Course.   Are you surprised how well you were playing?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: Yes, I'm surprised.   
 Q.  But to be 7-under through 13 holes, we know the course record here, held by various players including Annika Sorenstam, a 63, was that in the back of your mind?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: No, I had no clue what was the course record is 9-under.  I was, maybe, but I didn't want to be greedy.   
 Q.  You came back down to earth a bit on the back nine and it's still a very solid opening round of 66.  What did you do right out on the golf course?  What's the key?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: I try to be below the hole because the greens are very severe, and I think they had a good pin position today.  You know, they didn't make it where it was impossible, but like you saw it on No. 17, I had like 6-foot breaking putts left-to-right.   
So there were some birdies out there, but I think the greens are so severe that just giving myself a chance was all I can do.   
 Q.  It's great to see you out on the golf course, we know you're part of the victorious team that won the UL International Crown.  But only 15 events this year?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: This will be 16.  I had to take some time off after British because I had some back injury, and I'm very thankful that I was able to play International Crown, and I didn't want it to be a burden for my teammate.  That's why I took Evian off.  But I had so many support and understanding from my team, so I'm just happy to be back and play some good golf.   
 Q.  And the back, any problems now, or do you feel good?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: You know, I have a few more rounds left and I'll be fine after the season.   
 Q.  How were the conditions?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: Today, it was a bit chilly this morning, and the sun came out.  It was difficult to be below the hole on the green, but I was able to manage it very well on the front nine.   
 Q.  On the front nine, you were getting some birdies.  How did it feel?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: I think I played well on the par 5, and I had some birdies on the par 4s where I was hitting hybrid, and that I think helped the score.   
 Q.  What is the key to play well on this course?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: Just one shot at a time for me.  That doesn't change.  But I think even the par 5, hitting short irons, you really have to be below the hole, but not too below where it would be very uphill.  But I think leaving the putts uphill will help the score.   
 Q.  How are you getting ready to play two more rounds the next two days?  
IN-KYUNG KIM: I'm looking forward to it because I really like the golf course and I haven't played many rounds of golf, so I'm kind of fresh and look forward to a good weekend.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT