EVIAN MASTERS PRESENTED BY SOCIETE GENERALE
July 23, 2011
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome I.K. Kim into the interview room. Congratulations on your 8-under round today. Nine birdies, one bogey. Is this one of the best rounds that you've played in a while, and were you feeling really good about your game today.  
 I.K. KIM: Well, thanks for having me today here. Well, I had a great run, I have to say. I didn't even know that I birdied all par-3s out there, so most enjoying it.  
 Everything was clicking and I made few really good putts. And then, you know, once you get some good feeling out there you can kind of build up. It's kind of snowball. You building positive things, and I think that's what happened today. I'm very excited about it.  
 MODERATOR: You had three straight birdies before the bogey. Sometimes those bogeys can kind of derail a round, but you went right straight back out and birdied three more.   
 Did you have a good feeling when you had the even when you had that bogey to put it behind you and go forward?   
 I.K. KIM: Yes, that's actually what I could do at that point. It was kind of disappointing bogey, but I was putting it well. I knew what I did, and then that wasn't a big deal actually. I had many good holes left and I was really far behind, so I had to play well. I knew what I had to do.   
 You know, still, there are players out there playing well. I'm excited that I see myself on the leaderboard, you know, going into tomorrow.  
 MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. Have you had nine birdies before? Have you had a better round than that?  
 I.K. KIM: Yes. Actually, this year, first round that I had in Thailand I shot 63. I think I had nine birdies. I'm not sure I had 10. But, yeah, actually, 63 is my low score, and that was this year. I think this is the second-best I think I had.   
  
  Q. Is the 5th hole particularly difficult, the one you got the bogey on?  
 I.K. KIM: I think it's tricky on the tee shot. Today I was in the fairway and just pulled it left and then was kind of above the pin. It could have been much better if I hit five feet right, but, you know, one of those thing. I had a great putt; almost made the first one.   
 Second one I just over-read the break, because it's a kind of tricky green here, sometimes the break. So I was thinking a little too much on those short putts, but I been putting so well I can't really think about that.   
 I hope I can birdie tomorrow. That would be exciting, right?   
 MODERATOR: Just in terms of your attitude come into round today, you said you didn't play as well as you would have liked the first two days. Did you feel good about your game coming in to today? Did you feel like a round like this could happen today?  
 I.K. KIM: Well, I knew the winning score is going to be at least 18-under; that's what I was predicting, and I had long way to go. It was kind of challenge for myself.   
 I really want to have a good tournament. And I love this golf course. Always been a little short few times. So I just wanted to be in a good position.  
 But I have to say I wasn't pleased how I hit it last few days. Today I kind of found the rhythm how I play. I think that was it actually.   
 MODERATOR: Thank you.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT