U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 9, 2011
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PETE KOWALSKI: I.K. Kim at minus 2.   
  
  Q. Kind of a fits and starts couple of days for you, but right now you're sitting at the top of the leaderboard of the Women's Open. How did that happen? What did you do?  
 I.K. KIM: I don't know. Um, first time ever, actually. I'm very excited about, you know, leading the tournament. But, I mean, you know, I have been close couple times last couple years, and I think I've learned a lot from it.  
 It's been a great week, you know. You know, I don't feel like it's Saturday. I don't know really, but I'm excited.  
  
  Q. How about your play? What has it been that's gotten you to the under par?  
 I.K. KIM: What do you think? (Laughing.) Well, you got to hit the fairways and greens and put it in the right spot actually on the greens because there are some mountain. You know, you have to give yourself uphill rather than downhill with the tons of break.  
 So I think I did that pretty well. Lag putting has been working really good.  
  
  Q. A lot of people talk about the difficulty of the greens here. Is that the most challenging part of the golf course for you?  
 I.K. KIM: Definitely, because it doesn't look quite right sometimes. But you've got to really keep in mind with the mountain, you know, so it definitely breaks more sometimes. I think definitely every green. So uphills are really slow, and downhills is just maybe you don't have any chance.  
 So you really gotta play the course rather than, you know, play too aggressive.  
  
  Q. Is this course any more difficult because of the mountain and also because you played at an altitude and you have to gauge your shots differently because of the altitude?  
 I.K. KIM: Definitely. There is a lot of numbers, actually. When you talk to caddie, you know, we have to add and, you know, everything.   
 So it's definitely difficult, but it's flying farther than -- you know, I normally play in San Diego and it always, you know, always doesn't fly as far. But here it flies forever, so you really gotta be careful what your carry number is.  
  
  Q. You were talking about being in contention at previous Opens. You've also in previous Opens had to deal with the weather. Is that to be expected, it seems like?  
 I.K. KIM: Oh, USGA makes it really tough for all of us. It's already tough out there. But weather, I mean, you can't really control, but you really gotta play, you know, with what we get.  
 But I think we have done pretty well. We still got one more round to go today, but I think yesterday did a pretty good job of getting the players out of it safe and everything.   
  
  Q. Did you prefer to get up at 7:00 a.m. today or come back on Monday?  
 I.K. KIM: Get up at 7:00? I get up at 4:30, actually. No more.   
  
  Q. You're gonna have six or seven hours off now again. What will you do? How far in front of your tee time will you come back out and start working?  
 I.K. KIM: Um, well, I just got new iPad, so I'm pretty excited. I have plenty of time to play games and everything. So I'm not worried. I will definitely do some power nap this afternoon before I go out.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT