OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 11, 2010
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Congratulations to the defending champion and your final round, was one of a champion, probably just a little bit too far off to compete?  
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Yeah, I mean, I played pretty well today but the last couple of days I was kind of off and even today I tried my best and tried to kind of, you know, shoot low, but my swing wasn't working the way I wanted.   
 So it was hard for me to go really low, but I started off really well. The front nine, I think I did really well, because No. 5 and 12, I made bogey, six bogeys on those holes over three days. Today I made birdie on 5 and par on 12, so kind of an achievement for me. That was my goal.   
 Yeah, I wish I made more putts, but I'm happy with the round today.  
  
  Q. Your caddie came off and said it's been a week of almosts; is that a fair assessment?   
 IN-KYUNG KIM: What do you mean?   
  
  Q. It was nearly, not quite. You showed good form but not quite reaching a sort of premium?  
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Yeah, I guess the travelling and the time change was very hard for me, too, really out here, 100 per cent. But I had good rest the last couple days, just I couldn't practise after the round and you know, work on things. Just the fans out there are incredible, all of the Korean fans.   
  
  Q. You do leave Dubai with a very impressive title, The Ryder Cup Wales Rookie of the Year, congratulations. Tell us a bit about that.   
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Yeah, I'm really excited to win the Rookie of the Year, because I've tried on the LPGA Tour once a couple of years ago, and I'm not really rookie, but it's really -- there's only one chance you get, all your career, and then I won here, so it's kind of like, lucky me. What can I say.   
  
  Q. What is your overall assessment of the year? Tell us some of the best bets of 2010?  
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Well, always great to be end of the season in the OMEGA Dubai Ladies Masters. It's kind of lucky for me. Last year I won this and even though I had some off-weeks, I had momentum going into the next year into this year.   
 So hopefully next year, I guess rest and then I really look forward to 2011. You know, it's been a great year for me overall.   
  
  Q. What are the goals for 2011? Lee-Anne Pace said that she feels she can step up a level and win a Major. Do you feel the same?   
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Well, it's just -- win a Major, that would be -- it's always been my kind of top of the list, win a Major, but mostly I'm happy with my life and hopefully I learned something on the way towards the Majors and then if I went -- I mean, you know, that would be great.   
 But any win, any tournament I think it has its own meaning. This tournament is one of my favourites, and the Majors.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT