LORENA OCHOA INVITATIONAL BY BANAMEX AND CORONA LIGHT
November 13, 2010
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Just talk about the round, talk about the day.   
 IN-KYUNG KIM: I feel like I had a long day today. We've been waiting every hole but today was good. I feel kind of hot and worn out right now, but I hit a lot of good shots today into the greens. I had a lot of good opportunities to make birdies since yesterday, but I left a few out there.   
 But coming in, I birdied 15 and 16. That was pretty good. And so I'm very excited about the round.   
  
  Q. It seems like birdies on the back nine are just dropping for everybody. Can you talk about the pin positions?  
 IN-KYUNG KIM: You mean the back nine was playing easy, you mean? For me, I only made two, on 15 and 16.   
 Actually I made more birdies on the front nine since Thursday. I played very solid on the front and then the back nine, I played really good. But there's a few tough holes 12 and 13; that's not really a birdie hole. And you've got to make birdie on the par 5s like 10, and 18, which some players can get to the green, but I wasn't able to them, so I made par there.   
 I don't know how the other players played on the back nine but I feel like I played better on front nine. Hopefully I can make some birdies tomorrow on the back nine.   
  
  Q. Putting Paula Creamer's result aside today, do you think your scores today put you in a good position to maybe win tomorrow?   
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Well, I came in this week not without trying to win the tournament, but I came in with -- like if I win, that would be great but for me; if I shoot a good round, I've been shooting 69, 68, 68 the last three rounds, and I'm really happy with it. Tomorrow I'll be having the same goal and the same mind for every round; so, yeah, that's my answer.   
  
  Q. What did you like best about your game today and what did you like the least, and what will you try to change tomorrow?  
 IN-KYUNG KIM: I don't think I'll be changing anything tomorrow. I think I'll be the same as usual, but I wish I made a little more putts out there. Because you know, I had a lot of opportunities. I had a chance to birdie on 10, you know, a few par 5s.   
 But mostly I'm happy with how I played today and the last couple of days, I'm not complaining or anything. Golf, it's never going to be perfect, but I wish -- I think I had a chance to shoot really low the last couple of days. So tomorrow, I'll have the same goal and if I make a little bit more putts, similar putts drop, then I'll have a really good round.   
 Gracias.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT