RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 31, 2010
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   IN-KYUNG KIM: Left me with a fairly good lie, and hit a 5-iron down there and made the putt. 
 And 17 it was just my fault. I mean what on earth? I mean hit and miss to the bunker on the right side. But that wasn't too bad a shot. But I couldn't get up-and-down. So I hit good two-putts. 
 And 18, I've been missing little putts, actually, the last two days. And I just tell Terry that I'm just going to make that one and don't think about the three-footers. But actually, that's what I did.

 Q. How tough a task is it going to be tomorrow to take down Yani?
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Well, it's British Open. So I think I have to play my best. I'm not going to try to win tomorrow, just try to play my best tomorrow, and hopefully that's good enough. But that's my plan. 

 Q. Is a major win the next step for you?
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Yeah. That's always been my top of the list. And you know, that's what I've dreamed of since I was a little kid. And I think the British Open is best for me because with my trajectory, with my ball flight. So I'm very pleased where I am today, and you know, in contention. So look forward to it. 

 Q. Why don't we go over your round. Second hole?
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Birdie second hole. It was like tap-in. I hit a 5-wood.

 Q. Third hole?
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Third hole, I hit a 4-iron on the tee, and hit 6-iron and was 15-footer, I think. 

 Q. Eighth hole?
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Eighth hole. Hit a -- I don't know on the tee, but I hit 8-iron, and then was, yeah, about 4, 5-footer.

 Q. Okay. And you had a great first nine. 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Yes.

 Q. Best in three days. 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Well, you can't really tell because yesterday it was raining so hard. I was just trying to survive Friday; and today, I mean we didn't have the rain, but the wind was kind of stronger than first round. 
 But yeah, I'm pleased with the -- you know, I hit a lot of good shots and made some putts.

 Q. Tenth hole?
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Kind of was cloudy on the tee. So got into the bunker and chipped out and made bogey.

 Q. 16, birdie. 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Yeah. Hit a good drive. But it ended up on the left in the rough. Hit a 5-iron. And I made about a 15-footer, I think.

 Q. Trouble at 17. 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Oh, just a poor tee shot. Same thing. I mean those bunkers, that's just one stroke. So from there I hit a good third shot, actually, but I guess I had a little too much club or hit it down or something and went over and couldn't make two putt from there. But I had good putts.

 Q. Got a great drive at 18. 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Yes. Yeah, I've been hitting really good drives down there the last couple days, and couldn't really finish with the birdie. And today, actually eagle, so I'll take it.

 Q. How far was that putt?
 IN-KYUNG KIM: How far was it? About 15 feet, maybe 20.

 Q. Talk about having Terry as your caddy. He was Annika's caddy for umpteen years. I'm sure his knowledge has really helped your game, too. 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Yeah. He's very experienced. He has more wins than anybody else, and yeah, he's really helping me trying to -- like helping me calm down and play the game. You know, try not to force it. But yeah, he gave me really good clubs today, and that helped.

 Q. And do you have a tendency to get excited out there?
 IN-KYUNG KIM: I'm 22, you know. I'm trying to calm down, but my personality and my character is a little -- I can get hyper, but you know, it's just part of the game. You know, you gotta handle what you have.

 Q. Links courses, your experience in playing them?
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Well, I've always been -- my ball flight and trajectory has been lower than, you know, other players. And so whenever I go to the U.S. Open, I try to hit it higher all the time, you know, because those greens are far and fast. 
 But here I can run it up, or you know, I can play the wind. So I think it fits my game better. 

 Q. Are you looking forward to Sunday?
 IN-KYUNG KIM: I am, actually. I don't know what the weather is going to be. But we've had all kind of weather, so I think I'm pretty ready for it. Thank you. 








END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT