RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 29, 2010
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. I.K., great round today 2-under par. Can you talk a little bit about your round, birdies and bogeys and the conditions? 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Thanks. I had overall solid round. I started really well, parred No. 1. It was like birdie and I was so long. 2 had a bogey actually and 3 three-putted. But it could happen at any time. 
 And what was the turnaround for me? I made a birdie on 5 and birdied 6, par-5. And after that I hit the fairways mostly and greens and made birdie coming into 17.

 Q. Did you hit the 18th green in two?
 IN-KYUNG KIM: I did. Yeah. Putt was kind of up-and-down, but I thought it was into and was kind of with judging the speed.

 Q. What makes the first hole so difficult?
 IN-KYUNG KIM: I think it's the length, and it's always kind of into left-to-right wind. And there's bunker on the left, and you kind of really have to hold the shot. And still if you hit the fairway, I hit fairway today, and I had 211 to the pin. 

 Q. Yeah, that's a long hole. 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Yeah. 

 Q. Do you feel like your game is well suited to British Open with having to hit different types of shots this week?
 IN-KYUNG KIM: I think so. More than -- I think this is the major that I always look forward to because I have the low trajectory with my irons and drivers. So kind of an advantage if I can stay dry.

 Q. Yeah, do you find that the elements are the toughest part, the wind or the rain? What is the biggest challenge?
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Biggest challenge is like stay focused, especially every hole plays so different, you kind of have to test the wind. But you have to have good caddy, and you kind of have to bear down a little bit.

 Q. Will you do anything differently tomorrow?
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Tomorrow, I think weather. Depends on weather so much here. I heard it's some kind of storm coming in or something, and I play really late tomorrow. So I can get some really good rest in, play another good round. Hope so.

 Q. Okay. Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT