U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2010
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, we're happy to welcome In-Kyung Kim who shot a 68, and at +2 is tied for third. It was a wonderful round of golf today.  
 IN KYUNG KIM: Thank you.  
 MODERATOR: How do you feel about your experience playing in the Women's Open this year?  
 IN KYUNG KIM: Um, it's been great. The golf course is just praised as the gold standard for championship golf. I mean, just, you know, I've been playing so well last couple weeks, and I was expecting, you know, good results.   
 But the course was playing very tough. With the rain maybe it was, you know, possible to shoot some low scores.  
 MODERATOR: So far I believe we have five scores in the 60s. On this golf course, does that surprise you?   
 IN KYUNG KIM: Definitely. I think you have to bring your best out on every hole, not just, you know, par-5s. You know, this golf course I think there is couple birdie holes, maybe four, and but even 12 is par-5, but it plays so tough.   
 You don't have really breathing room. Maybe Paula. I don't know. She played such great golf out there, and very impressive.   
 MODERATOR: Questions?   
  
  Q. Is this the most difficult golf course you've ever played?  
 IN KYUNG KIM: I would say the greens -- yeah, I will say so, because I think it was -- we had rain. Maybe that's why we shot really low score.   
 But first round we play, I mean, the course was really firm. The greens, it's not just double break, it's like triple breaks and up and down. I think just the green is just, you know, reputation, you know. You can't -- I mean, I think so. It is, I think.  
  
  Q. Couple of the other players said that it seemed like a lot of the tees were up today. What about the pin placements? Maybe a little bit more favorable today? What were some of the other reasons you think that the scores were a little lower today?  
 IN KYUNG KIM: Are you asking me about the pin positions?   
  
  Q. Anything that you think might have made the course a little bit easier today.   
 IN KYUNG KIM: Especially 2. I had two bogeys last three rounds, and today I just hit a driver just front of the green and was able to make birdie. And 17, also they moved the tee up a little bit, and I was able to have birdie there.  
 But the pin position I don't think was easy. I been watching men's 2007 Open, and I think the pin positions are pretty similar as the last round. So I expected some pin position, but was good setup, I think.  
 MODERATOR: They used the same hole locations today, except for one hole, as they did for the last time the U.S. Open was here.  
  
  Q. Can you tell me what were you looking to do on 17? What was your approach there?  
 IN KYUNG KIM: Actually, once I hit it to the right in the bunker and it wasn't that great, so I really wanted to just keep it down on the left side.   
 But I didn't want to hit it too deep because there is a bunker and it was very tight pin. But I was -- actually, I kind of little a push to the right than where I aimed, and that was pretty good miss, you know. (Laughter.)  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT