OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 11, 2009
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You started the day two shots ahead, finished three shots ahead, I imagine you are pretty satisfied. How do you feel about your play?
 IN-KYUNG KIM: I'm very happy with how I played today. I played very solid again. I made some putts and left some putts, but I tried hard, and I think 5-under is not bad.

 Q. The par you made at 16, Colin Montgomerie always tells us, "It's not the birdies I make, it's the bogey I don't make." The par save at 16 was very important because you went on to birdie 17. 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: 16, if you have a good drive, you have a chance to get close or make birdie. But I pulled it left. I didn't know I have that shot, but I pulled that one really bad. 
 And yeah, even though chipping wasn't easy, because I had a big hill, the pin was in the back. Very fortunate to make par. Yeah, I had the momentum going onto 17. 

 Q. What's pleased you most about your game over these three rounds?
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Actually, well, yesterday, I hit a lot of perfect shots and today I had some in-between clubs. But I think I'm hitting the ball better than on the Pro-Am or the practise rounds. So I'm very pleased with that. 

 Q. What would it mean to you to come out on top tomorrow and win your first Ladies European Tour event? 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Well, it means a lot. I'm very thankful they invite me to the OMEGA Dubai Ladies Masters. I'm just very happy to be here and I'm just having a lot of fun and looking forward to it. 

 Q. Does the weather make any difference, because in Dubai, it doesn't rain. 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Well, that's what I heard. Now, it rains in the desert, now I know. But we expected rain a little. Yeah, it rained quite a bit. It didn't really stop the whole way. 
 But it wasn't really affecting. 

 Q. So can you tell me about the birdies, how long the putts were? 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Second hole, actually I chipped in. It wasn't far. Maybe 20 feet away. 
 Third, almost got on the green and I used the putter, so 2-putt. 
 8, well, I pulled it left in the bunker and had a good bunker shot. Just didn't make the putt. 
 9, had a good drive with 3-wood and 7-iron in and made the putt. 
 13, actually on the green in three shots with a wedge and make putts from another 15 or 12 feet. 
 14, hit a good drive. I usually hit it into the green with a long iron but I had 8-iron today and get it closer, I had a chance. 

 Q. Two metres?
 IN-KYUNG KIM: I don't know, six, seven feet. 
 And then wedge in, 115 and made a putt from 15 feet. 

 Q. In the situation going into the final day with the lead, is this a normal thing for you? 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Well, even though you're ahead, I've got to play my game. I have to play, you know, what the golf course gives me, and go out there and have some fun. You know, nothing is easy. Getting better with sleep, actually. 

 Q. What do you like doing in your spare time?
 IN-KYUNG KIM: You mean, besides golf? Actually I'm learning guitar. It's been over a year but yeah, I enjoy playing it with friends. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT