OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 10, 2009
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. A fabulous round of 7-under par but could it have been even lower? How do you feel?   
 IN-KYUNG KIM: I feel very happy with my round. Actually I'm very pleased, but I have some chances on 9 and a couple more birdies, I would have gotten lower a little bit. I think I hit it a little bit too close or something; that wasn't easy, the little putts, it was hard to read them. But I'm very happy that I finished strong in the end.  
  
  Q. Your first time here in Dubai; did you like the course when you first saw it and think that you could do it well here?  
 IN-KYUNG KIM: I only had one practise round, nine holes. I got the back nine done.   
 Yeah, the course conditions is just perfect, and actually, today was kind of more harder on the fairways and greens. But yeah, I like the golf course.   
  
  Q. How valuable is your caddie, Terry, because he's won here twice and he's won 75 times around the world. Presumably his experience is invaluable, isn't it?   
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Yes, he's -- I don't know, he's just a good caddie. Great caddie, actually. I'm glad that we are working out well on the golf course, and off the course, as well. So I'm very pleased and he did a good job today.   
  
  Q. What was the absolute key to your round today?   
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Actually yesterday was a bit windier in the afternoon but I was more comfortable on the golf course. I had the right numbers and had some good shots into the greens, and some of them that I was able to make, and missed some. But yeah, I'm very pleased.   
  
  Q. What was your best birdie and how long were your birdie putts?  
 IN-KYUNG KIM: The shot of the day, actually I think No. 8 is an easy hole, kind of -- the green is above, so you can't really see how it landed. I had 4-iron and I think it was a good birdie.   
  
  Q. How close?  
 IN-KYUNG KIM: I have to say 12 -- more than 12. 15 feet.  
  
  Q. This is your first time in Dubai; have you done any visiting?   
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Actually I haven't done any touring, because I'll be staying two more days after the tournament. So I look forward to that.   
  
  Q. How do you like the course?   
 IN-KYUNG KIM: The course, they have some good holes, dogleg left and right, and you have to kind of pick the right target to hit the fairway.   
 But yeah, it is a good golf course that, you know, I have been watching on TV the Dubai Desert Classic, the men's tournament. So it's cool to come here and play, actually.  
  
  Q. Your caddie won here twice already. Does he use the same yardage book?   
 IN-KYUNG KIM: I think he has a little different yardage because Annika hits it further than I do. But he won here twice and he won the par 3 event twice.   
 I think I have the right caddie here.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT