EVIAN MASTERS PRESENTED BY SOCIETE GENERALE
July 23, 2009
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE: IK, welcome into the scoring tent or media tent. Had a great round. You're co-leader right now with Becky Brewerton. You've already had one win this year and you've been playing really strong. Can you just talk about your round today.  
 IN KYUNG KIM: Today's round I think I played very solid. I had some bad tee shot off 9, but I was able to make some birdie on par-5s, so 1-under on the front nine.   
 Back nine, No. 11, I just, you know, holed out with a 9-iron, so it was great. But played very solid and I made some putts and I left some putts there, so very happy with the round.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Questions.   
  
  Q. Just wanted to ask you about the course, and also about Becky Brewerton's performance.   
 IN KYUNG KIM: Well, the golf course, yeah, the course is a little soft overall, but the roughs, I think they grow rough more tougher and longer this year maybe because of the rain. But thicker, definitely.   
 They have some tight landing area with the driver. It's very hilly, so it depends where you're like landing at. So I think hitting fairways gonna be really important this week.   
 Greens are a little soft, but there are a lot of big undulations on the green so it's still tough to putt.   
 And Becky, she's not on LPGA Tour?   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: No.  
 IN KYUNG KIM: Congratulations on last week.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Can you talk about the part of your game that's strong right now, kind of this season what's been going well for you. It is your game? Does this course fit your eye very well?   
 IN KYUNG KIM: This golf course, I think it should fit my game because of the narrow fairways and small greens. If I make some putts, I think I'm very fortunate on this golf course.  
 This year, I mean, I've been -- I think I improved a lot since last year. Winning the first win I gain more confidence. I just keep working on my swing and putting and all the game and mentality, and I think it helps.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 IN KYUNG KIM: Definitely. I mean, some golf course we go there several years, so I know the golf course and the way I play it, and how I play it I think I played better. I think I kind of learned how to play the shots and figure out which shot to play.   
 So I think experience, and, you know...  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: You said you left some putts out there. What were some of the holes that were pars that maybe could have been birdies? You had no bogeys.  
 IN KYUNG KIM: Yeah, well, I mean, No. 2, the par-3, that green, I don't know, it break very fast from the right side where I had a putt.   
 So there are some putts that -- I think it's more greens than hills sometimes. I just couldn't find some speed on the greens. So it wasn't easy to putt aggressive. Even though the greens are slow, you can't really play too aggressive, so...  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Any other holes?   
 IN KYUNG KIM: I think No. 11 played tough today because it was downwind. The pin is on the right and there is a bunker behind it. But I was fortunate to have just, you know, holed out. But I think that 11 played tougher.   
 Other than that, 12 and 13 are tough, but it was downwind today so we had more shorter clubs in. So, I mean, it was better than having into the wind.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT