U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2009
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Just general thoughts about what happened there at the end?  
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Oh, in the end. Well, last three holes, I really wanted to finish strong. I had a good birdie on 16. 17 was kind of tricky because we never hit it from the front, but good par there on No. 18. On tee box it was kind of down wind and right-to-left.   
 I thought I could hit it pretty far down there and have birdie chance or easy par, and my caddie told me to hit 5-wood to center of the fairway and go for seven, 6-iron in there but I had some poor decision in the end. Hopefully I learn from there.  
  
  Q. Did you hit driver?  
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Yes, I did.   
  
  Q. And land in the bunker?  
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Yeah. A little draw, but the wind kind of took it to the left, and it was really tough to get it on the green, because it was really tucked in.   
  
  Q. So many players near the top. Were you aware of how tightly bunched it was? Were you aware of how close things were getting with the leaderboard?  
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Yes. Everybody played very solid, even with the wind, and I thought winning score was going to be even par. I really had a lot of birdie chances, and I really tried hard out there. The greens are not really, you know, easy to get like my putting aggressive. It would have been better if I putted more aggressive, but you know, so good experience.   
  
  Q. Do you like this golf course?  
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Yes. Very much. I think this golf course really fits with my game, hit fairways and greens. But I would be more fortunate if I make more putts, you know. But all week, overall, I think I played great. Just gotta make some putts to win this kind of tournament, I guess.   
  
  Q. Would you like to play an Open here again?  
 IN-KYUNG KIM: I'd love to. I think the course conditions was great, and the green was unbelievable, very salty, but it was very challenging. I liked it.   
  
  Q. Thank you.   
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT