MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 10, 2009
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JASON TAYLOR: In-Kyung, thanks for coming in.   
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Thank you.  
 JASON TAYLOR: You were the winner of last week's event, the LPGA State Farm Classic in Springfield, your second victory of your career.   
 So with this being a major week, if you would just talk about winning and then continuing your solid play over to this week.   
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Hello. Yeah, I'm very excited to winning the State Farm Classic last week. Well, I play very, mean solid all -- overall last week, so I'm very happy with it.   
 I'm very lucky to win on Sunday. I think it helps me with the confidence coming into the major this week. This week, I'm very excited about this week. I mean, I been waiting for the major events since after Nabisco, so I'm pretty much looking forward to it.  
 JASON TAYLOR: You're ready to go.   
 IN-KYUNG KIM: I'm very ready. I don't know, I just play nine holes this morning, and I feel really good about my game. Yeah, I'm very excited.  
 JASON TAYLOR: All right, questions.  
  
  Q. So tell us about the nine holes. How did it go? How is the course playing? Just how your round, nine holes, went this morning.   
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Well, I didn't really, really practicing, I was just playing the course and feel the shots and going -- you know, try out some bunker shots.   
 So the course is pretty soft because of the rain last night. But other than that, the course is in good shape. I'll try my best tomorrow.   
  
  Q. What do you think the hardest part of the course is? What's the most difficult out there? What's the biggest challenge this week?   
 IN-KYUNG KIM: I think this week, I think roughs are tough, especially fairway rough. So I think I have to keep playing in the fairway and keep hitting the driver into the fairways and greens and make -- have more chances to make birdies.   
 There are some birdie holes out there also, but I think No. 18 they moved back a little bit. I think it's gonna be tough hole to make. Par is good on that hole.  
 But other than that, the course is in really good shape. The greens are pure. Hopefully it dries out a little bit. But, you know, yes.   
  
  Q. Lorena Ochoa hasn't played for two week, three weeks actually; you played last week. Is there an advantage to playing last week that you might have over her, or is she good enough to play without having gone the past couple weeks?  
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Can you explain one more time?   
  
  Q. Sure. You played last week, and you talked about how you were happy to be able to build on that.   
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Right.  
  
  Q. Ochoa has not played since May 17th. Is she at a disadvantage, or is she good enough to not have to play every week?   
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Well, Lorena, I mean, she knows what she's doing, and she wanted to what she planned it. My plan was to play week before. I got there actually on Monday night, because I went to San Diego for a little practice and week off.   
 So I think that helped me a lot, go back and refreshing my game and then come back and played. I'm very happy with winning, but I really think that I been being the right thing to preparing for this week and next couple major events.   
 So I think that's the way she does her decision, and she knows. I just played it and, yeah, I think I did the right to do, you know. I won, so, yeah.   
 It's kind of hot in here, isn't it?   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Well, I have been playing well. I think I'm very much ready for the tournament. But I think I need it calm down a little bit, more relax and go out there and play my game.   
 Not trying to, you know, try to like put too much pressure. I don't think it's gonna work for me. I'm just gonna go out there and have fun and learn something.   
 Every day is different, so I'm looking forward to have fun, and hopefully I can be in contention in the weekend.   
  
  Q. You won last week. Did you celebrate any? Or this week being a major gives you no time for celebrating because you had to get ready for a major week?  
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Yeah, no celebration yet. Hopefully I keep playing well. My birthday is on Saturday. I'm turning 21. I mean, we're gonna have some celebration on Sunday, I think. I'm looking forward celebrate my birthday and all the good things.  
  
  Q. Big party planned?   
 IN-KYUNG KIM: I think so, because my caddie, Jason, and I are both having birthday this week. Yeah, hopefully we play well, and, you know, yeah, we have a good time.   
  
  Q. How many times have you played on this course, and how have you done?  
 IN-KYUNG KIM: This is my third time playing McDonald's Championship, and I played well in my rookie year. I think I finish Top 15 or something. I like the golf course very much, but last year I got really sick. I had a cold and I couldn't play the Pro-Am. I had to go to see the doctor, so...   
 Well, I didn't play too bad, but I think I missed the cut. But I like the golf course, and I feel much better playing this year. I'm very excited about playing some good golf.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT