LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
June 7, 2009
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JASON TAYLOR: Thanks for coming in. 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Thank you. 
 JASON TAYLOR: Congratulations on winning the LPGA State Farm Classic. Your second win so far. You finished at 17-under. Got a nice one-stroke victory this week. 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Yes. That was tight. 
 JASON TAYLOR: How was it for you? 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Well, I just feel great. I'm very excited to win this week. Well, front nine I have 3-under and I was in good position to go the back nine. I saw all was happening in front of me, what Se Ri was doing. I needed to make a birdie at 16 to get tie with her. 17 I had a good chance to make birdie. That was the moment that I felt like, you know, I have, you know, one-shot lead. 
 So, yeah, it was great (laughter). 
 JASON TAYLOR: Questions. 

 Q. When you realized you were right there with Se Ri, is that especially meaningful for you? Is Se Ri somebody you've looked up to? Was it almost surreal you're competing with her down the stretch there in a golf tournament?
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Well, she was leading all this week. Well, it's wasn't like just her for me, I mean, today. Stanford was there. You know, a couple other girls was on the leaderboard, and I had to watch out. 
 But 16, yesterday was really into the wind. I didn't have chance to go right at it. But today I had a chance to go there. I was able to make that birdie putt. So was great. 
 Yeah, this tournament means a lot to me, playing with all the great players that all played this week. I feel really special, yeah. 

 Q. The fact that Se Ri is sort of credited with starting the Korean players coming over here, is she somebody you've always kind of looked up to? 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Sure. I think she definitely opened the door for all the Korean players. And we really look up to her and all other great players. It's just, yeah, great to play out here. I think I just improved myself every week just competing on this LPGA Tour. 
 So, yeah. 

 Q. As you looked at the leaderboard, saw other countrywomen up there, is there a sense of national pride on your part?
 IN-KYUNG KIM: You mean watching another? 

 Q. Other Korean golfers. You were dominant today once again. 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Yeah, there were a lot of low score this morning. I knew I had to make some birdies today out there. This is not the story today, but I play with Helen Alfredsson. There is scoreboard every other hole. She was looking at it, waiting to play. Looking at the leaderboard, there's 'Kim, Kim, Kung'. We were just laughing. 
 There's a lot of great players from Korea and other countries. It's great to play with other country players, other nation players. They represent, you know, their country. I think it's great, yeah, tour. 

 Q. As far as those last couple holes, you birdied 16, 17, you had to wait a little bit in the 18th fairway, how difficult is it when you have a one-shot lead, a tough hole, what are you thinking? 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Well, you know, I had really no clue until 16. I just wanted to -- I thought 16 was close to winning, so I got up to 16 and there I was tied with Se Ri so I had to make one more birdie to go into the last one. So I'm glad I made that putt, going one-shot lead to 18. It would have been like tougher if I was tie, you know, to make putt after her. Yeah, the one-shot lead. I wasn't that, you know, that I had to go for it. I just couldn't left short or long or anything, I just had to hit it perfect. 
 Yeah, I mean, I think that was really, you know, help me a lot, you know, hitting the greens and make the putt. 

 Q. The TV cameras afterwards caught you embracing someone. Who was that? 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Hugging? 

 Q. Yes. 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: That was my mom. 

 Q. Has she been here quite a bit to see you play?
 IN-KYUNG KIM: No, actually she was here when I won the first event in San Francisco. Since then I think she travel with me all along. She was the lucky charm, yeah. She just always be there for me. She never really pushing me. She wants me to be the best I can be and have the good attitude on the golf course, so... 

 Q. Your mom's name?
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Soo Kee Sung. My dad is in Korea. He wasn't here last time and this time. I think he's very excited, so... 

 Q. Would he have probably seen this on TV?
 IN-KYUNG KIM: I think so. I don't know exactly what time it's over there. I think pretty early in the morning. But he stays up. If I'm not on the TV, he just follows Internet. He's a big fan of LPGA. 

 Q. What is your father's name? 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Chul Jin Kim. 

 Q. As far as getting this win, with a major next week, how important is that confidence-wise?
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Well, I been really close last couple tournaments. I had two seconds this year. I really had a chance to win couple times. I just really worked on my game hard. I think more now I'm like more confident. I trust myself. Now I can trust myself on the golf course and I don't have to worry about other things, so... 
 I think it's going in the right way, so I'm very, yeah, pleased. 

 Q. Did you and Se Ri speak after it was over? Did she congratulate you?
 IN-KYUNG KIM: It was great that she came up to me and say congratulations, and joking, you know, about today's round. But, yeah, that was great. I'm very, yeah, appreciate that she came over to me and congratulate, so... 

 Q. You finish your round and there are a couple of groups to go, then a delay. What did you spend your time doing? You were signing a lot of autographs. 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Yes, I did. I felt really bad last time that I couldn't do all of those because I had to do other things. So I just did that. It was perfect. I think I did all of them, all the autograph stuff. 

 Q. How many, do you think? 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: That's really tough. 

 Q. A lot?
 IN-KYUNG KIM: A lot, yes.

 Q. You mentioned your caddie, Jason. How long has he been working for you?
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Actually this year. We start working since, well, Hawaii. We start from Hawaii. But I won the tournament with him last year, so I asked him to be caddying for me this year, and he accepted. So we are having great year so far.

 Q. What's his last name? 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Jilroyd. Hopefully that's right. 
 JASON TAYLOR: All right. Congratulations. 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Thank you so much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT