MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 8, 2009
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JASON TAYLOR: All right, In-Kyung. Welcome to the Media Center. Not a bad round today for you. You're 7-under today, 10-under overall. You currently have a one-stroke lead in the tournament. If you would, just talk about your day.   
 IN-KYUNG KIM: I played a solid round today. I hit the ball very well.   
 I had lots of chances to make birdie. Actually I didn't really have a chance to make birdie yesterday on par-5s, but I played par-5s very well today, and that's why I went lower score, so I'm very happy with the round.  
 JASON TAYLOR: Questions?   
  
  Q. Do you feel like you're playing par-5, eagle?  
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Oh, that one. Actually it was three hole for me. I couldn't get to the green on the second, but I lay out with my hybrid, and then I had perfect 80 yards, and then I just got my new 58-degree. The furthest shot I can hit is 80 yards, so I was comfortable hitting it. So actually it fell back, so it was pretty cool. I didn't see it, but everyone liked it.  
  
  Q. When did you get the 58-degree?  
 IN-KYUNG KIM: I got it a couple months ago, but this tournament was the first time using it.   
  
  Q. You hit it how long?  
 IN-KYUNG KIM: 80 yards.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible).  
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Don't ask me. I like my Ping driver.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible).   
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Yeah. Actually it was on line, and I thought, you know, I didn't know, but it went in. So pretty cool. You know, one of those things.  
  
  Q. Your career obviously is still beginning, and you've had some ups and downs. How do you feel you're playing right now, and what potential can you reach?  
 IN-KYUNG KIM: I try to consistently play well on the Tour, and I've been working on my short game and putting a lot.   
 And last winter, I worked with my new coach with my shots and my game, so I feel a lot stronger now that I have -- you know, I can get better. I need to work to do something, so it's not so boring. It's fun.   
  
  Q. Who is your new coach?  
 IN-KYUNG KIM: David Leadbetter.  
  
  Q. I think this is a career low round for you. Did you have any expectations coming into today?  
 IN-KYUNG KIM: I mean I played better round yesterday, too, actually. I mean I putted better today. I made some 20-footers, so it was good.   
 And actually, I had more chance on number -- I played from No. 10, so No. 17 and 16 I had more chances, but you know, I can't complain about today's round.  
  
  Q. What happened on the hole that you bogeyed? You bogeyed the short par-4 on the front side. Right?   
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Did I?   
  
  Q. No. 6?  
 JASON TAYLOR: No. 5.  
 IN-KYUNG KIM: No. 5?   
 JASON TAYLOR: Bogeyed No. 5 on the front side.  
  
  Q. Par-3?  
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Par-3, I hit 9-iron, and I just went to the back stroke, then I hit it. I didn't hit a solid shot, but it was over from the green. It wasn't that tough a putt, but I putted so aggressive on the first one and said, come on, and I'm going to make the next putt.  
  
  Q. How far was your bogey putt?  
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Bogey putt was like that. My putt was like this one.  
  
  Q. At this point on the Tour, seeing Korean players there's nothing new at all about that. Have you grown up seeing that?   
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Can you explain more what you mean?   
  
  Q. Well, like you're next in the long line of stars maybe from Korea?  
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Well, I mean it's great to be on the Tour and playing against best players, and I think I've reached my goal, and I just need to -- there is my goal and then I have to step up every year.   
 I want to get better and I want to win more tournaments, and you know, speak better English, you know, all those goals.   
 I'm only 20, and I just got out from high school, and I don't feel -- I just want to keep learning and studying, and like other 20-year-old girls.  
  
  Q. How important was it for your confidence to have won in Phoenix?  
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Yeah. I think it was great to win the tournament because I hadn't won since after turning pro.   
 When I have junior tournaments, you have the confidence. You know, you need to win the tournament to have some confidence, so I wanted to learn how to win a tournament and more comfortable playing with the best players.   
  
  Q. There have been a lot of breaks in your schedule this year.   
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Yes.  
  
  Q. What have you been doing in the off weeks? Have you gone back to Korea?  
 IN-KYUNG KIM: No. Actually I didn't have a chance to go back to Korea, because I always get sick after flying long flights, so I came here early.   
 I stayed with a family last two years, so it's comfortable to stay at their house and have fun, you know, seeing friends and work-out session, like other ladies do.   
  
  Q. You came straight here from Mexico?  
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Yes. The families were wondering, you know, did you get the flu. I'm like, I feel fine. Don't worry.   
  
  Q. Who is it that you're staying with?  
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Mr. Carrier's house. They're really nice. Their daughter just got pregnant. She's having twins, so they're very excited.  
 JASON TAYLOR: All right. Thanks.   
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT