ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 20, 2008
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JASON TAYLOR: Thank you for coming in. Nice opening round, 3 under. Tied for the lead early in round one. If you would, just talk about your day. 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Well, I really had a good day today. I hit many fairways and greens. And I had some good birdies out there. I made two birdies on par 5s, so that was good. The wind wasn't really a gust today, so I think I was fortunate to have 60s round. 

 Q. Do you like the format? 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: The format? 

 Q. Well, tomorrow you're looking at let's say going into tomorrow with the 16 players survive. Are you looking at who is in 17th place right now and how many strokes you are ahead of them? 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: No. No, I'm just trying to get in the 15 spot, you know. I'm not trying to winning the second round. But certainly I'm trying my best out there. Trying to, yeah, play well. Didn't think about 17th or 15th. Trying to be in that group, yes.

 Q. Is a million bucks to the winner, is that a number that gets your attention? I mean, is that a life-changing number? 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Winning is more important to me then it comes together. But I think this is really fun, you know. I've never done this before and in this position have a chance to play well next couple of days, and I'm done this year. So pretty much, just, yeah, look forward to it. 

 Q. I don't know how much you've paid attention to the bottom half of the leaderboard, but there are a lot of very recognizable names down there. I'm wondering what your thoughts are about the struggles of Annika and Lorena and Cristie Kerr and Inbee Park? 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: I didn't know. It doesn't show after tenth spot, so I wasn't paying attention to that. 
 But this golf course, I think last couple -- today, this is my first tournament to be here. But the course is very difficult. The greens are really sloping, and with the wind, it was really tough yesterday. 
 So I think the wind effects more, you know, the next couple of days. Depends on the wind. I think it's very tough. Like par is good on this golf course. 

 Q. Did you watch this tournament on television last year? And what have you heard about playing in it and what it's like to play for a million dollars? 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Actually, everyone, everyone of the players are trying to get in the ADT, you know, for the last. Maybe not top players, they're just going to play it. But I tried very hard to get in this tournament. 
 And I watched on TV. Even I wasn't on LPGA Tour, I still play well with ADT and Granada and Lorena, it's just in my memories. But I'm really happy to be here, and yeah. 

 Q. When you were preparing to play on the LPGA Tour and learning the game, did you bet on the golf course? Did you like to play for money? 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Oh, I don't like to lose, so if people ask it's money, yeah, I'll do it. Yeah, I do betting moneys, you know. Yeah, I think it's fun, you know. Not big money. It can be really big, you know, if you're losing. But yeah, certainly, we play with the money, yeah.
 JASON TAYLOR: Not a million dollars? 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Not like one box though, you know. 

 Q. So you bet for $5 or $20 or $100 or whatever? 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Yeah, we played that when we were younger. Now we do for like dinner, lunch, drinks, you know.

 Q. What is the biggest bet you ever won on the course? 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Won on the course? 

 Q. Yeah, that you won for sinking a putt. Not prize Monday. Practice rounds or whatever?
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Practice rounds? Before my coach in Korea, he tried to make me to like motivate myself. So this is $400 dollar. But I don't think he's going to give me, but it was $500, yeah. But I didn't give.

 Q. Did you win? 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: I won every time, but he bets on me more and more and more. So once you get there, you're going to lose once, and it's done, so. 

 Q. So he finally won one?
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT