GINN TRIBUTE HOSTED BY ANNIKA
May 29, 2008
In-Kyung Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: You're tied for the lead at 7-under with Karrie Webb. If you would, just talk about your day and all your birdies, how did it feel. 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: I played very solid all day. I hit it very well. I made a nice birdie on 3. After that I had a good shot short of the green but plugged in the bunker, except after that hole, it turned out very nice. I saw the lines very well today and I had a lot of opportunities and I made I think most of them, so I'm very glad to be at 7-under today. 

 Q. Sounds like your ball-striking was pretty good, a lot inside ten feet. 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Yes, I hit the ball very solid today. Actually starting last week, I hit the ball very well. Today was the first time working with my new caddie and it turned out very good.
 I had a lot of clubs that I like to hit on the fairways, and I think I drive the ball very well, so I had a lot of opportunities to go for it. So, that was nice. 

 Q. Do you think it was to your advantage teeing off this afternoon after the rain last night and this morning? 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Actually, my tee time was a little late today, 1:30, but I knew the course is going to be like wet because of last night, the rain. But some of the holes are wet, but all of the conditions are very good and the greens are very soft, so I think everyone has a good day today.

 Q. YOU shot a final round 67 last week at Corning; did that give you momentum coming in here?
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Yeah, actually I'm very confident with my game right now, and even though I had 5-under the last day, I missed some putts and I had some mistakes so I worked on them the last few days. Yeah, I'm glad to play well on the first day, first round. 

 Q. I was going to ask whether you feel -- will you feel any added pressure going into tomorrow with a lead or will you just kind of continue to play the way you've been playing the last couple of rounds? 
 IN-KYUNG KIM: Yeah, absolutely, I'm very excited for this week. I couldn't play in the first Ginn Open because I had an injury, but yeah, I was really looking forward to this week, and tomorrow the second day, teeing off very early at 7:30, but I don't think it's an easy golf course. 
 So just keep hitting the ball well and make some putts, it's going to be very interesting on the weekend. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thanks for coming in. Good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT