SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 2, 2012
Darren McFadden
Dominique Sandifer
Josh Wade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   How non‑effective was it thinking about what you guys had to do too much rather than just playing?   Because there comes to a point where you're thinking I've got to be here, I've got to be here, and then you're not able to play?   
JOSH WADE:   At corner our assignments are pretty simple most of the time.   But I felt like a lot of the guys had to disguise more things and walk into coverages, and they weren't very comfortable with it.   So it was an adjustment, definitely, probably for more of the safeties than backers.   
When they get more reps, I'm sure we'll get a lot better at it and be able to make adjustments better in the game.  
   
 Q.   You guys did okay the first half.   What are other teams doing at halftime to switch it up when they come out to the second half to do better against your defense?   
LEON McFADDEN:   Like he said, at halftime, they were switching up their game plan to match our defensive scheme.   We're not executing or adjusting fast enough.  
   
 Q.   Does that come with experience with what you guys are doing?   How do you identify what they're doing when they come out at halftime, and switch up to match what they're doing?   
JOSH WADE:   You've just got to play hard and fast and trust what you see in front of you.   Get to where you're supposed to be, and make sure you're focused and locked in.   Then any kind of mistakes after that, they'll correct themselves and fly around the ball and hopefully make some ball instructions and work themselves out.  
   
 Q.   Josh, how's the calf?   
JOSH WADE:   It's a lot better.   I'm doing some treatments today.   Got to just stay hydrated.   Get in the cold tub and it's feeling a lot better.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to practice today?   
JOSH WADE:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   It seems like the offense is humming along, getting better and better every week until this last week against Fresno State.   Do you feel like that's kind of a step back in the offense?   
DOMINIQUE SANDIFER:   In a sense, yeah, we took a step back.   But in the same time with practice and repetition, we'll be ready to go this week.   We had little hiccups.   We had assignment errors across the board.  
   
 Q.   How quick did you recommend that play?   Was the same play coming up right before they called that timeout?   
LEON McFADDEN:   Yeah.   When you're on the goal line like that and they're going to suck you into the run and do a play action.   So in my mind I'm thinking about the possibilities of what plays they can run out of the formation, and that happened to be one of the plays that I thought about.   Just read it perfectly and baited the quarterback into throwing that ball.   
   
 Q.   Are there any positives you can take from last week's game?   
JOSH WADE:   Definitely there are positives.   There is a lot of film we got from it.   Some things we saw that we did wrong.   You take a hard look at yourself after losing two tough games like this.   We definitely have a lot to prove.   We've got to have a great week of practice and fix those things and be able to adjust when the pressure's on.  
   
 Q.   What are some of the things that you guys saw that you did wrong last week against Fresno?   
LEON McFADDEN:   Assignments.  
   
 Q.   More than usual?   
LEON McFADDEN:   Yeah, across the board.  
   
 Q.   When you say assignment errors, you're just talking about not being in the right place at the right time?   
LEON McFADDEN:   Exactly.  
   
 Q.   As corners, with them putting up as many passing yards as they have, does it hit more of a pride thing than anything else?   
JOSH WADE:   Definitely.   Any time a team can throw over 500 yards, you've definitely got to think about making some adjustments, and wanting to break up more balls because that's way too many.   We've got to look at the film and figure out a way to get it done.   
   
 Q.   Do you almost take more risks being that you need to get the ball back and stop the passing attack as corners?   I mean, personally.   I'm not talking about the game.   Just you as individuals tend to take more risks because you know you guys can make a game change, a game difference?   
JOSH WADE:   Definitely.   Turn around and getting your eyes on the ball and finding the ball and forcing turnovers is something that we really want to do.   I feel like the corners have been doing decent jobs in coverage.   Leon's been getting a couple interceptions for touchdowns.   We've just got to get our hands on more balls and find a way to get a better job done out of the deal.   
LEON McFADDEN:   At corner, it's risky.   If you're in the wrong spot and you get beat, you really get exposed.   So that's a big thing too.   So we really do take it personally as a corner.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT