NCAA MEN'S FINAL FOUR
April 1, 1995
Tyus Edney
Jim Harrick
Ed O'Bannon
George Zwikker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COACH HARRICK:  I thought our defense in the second half was outstanding and really was the key.  When you hold that team to 32 percent from the field in the second half, and 24 points, I thought that was the difference.  Big Country had 18 the first half and 7 the second half.  And, you know, I thought big George Zwikker did a great job the second half on him.  And we really did a nice job on Rutherford.  Bailey and Cameron Dollar, Cameron came up big, Charles O'Bannon on the other end had a strong, strong game and carried us.  But down the stretch of the game it was the ability of Tyus Edney to penetrate and take his man to the hole, and it really kept them off balance.  And we made our foul shots down the stretch.


Q.  Actually this is for Coach Harrick.


Q.  This is for Tyus.  Can you describe what it's like going underneath and making that scoop shot with all of those tall arms and tall trees in your way?

TYUS EDNEY:  I just try to avoid them as much as possible, I guess you could say.  I try to get in the lane, and try to get in there before they can react.  Or if he can react, I dump it off.  And I was able to get in there a couple of  times and get the shot off.


Q.  To Tyus, again.  Tyus, this game went back and forth so much.  And when it got down to the stretch, did you just feel that you had to control tempo at that point, because that's really what you did.  Was that a conscious thing on your part?

TYUS EDNEY:  That was conscious, I think.  You know, Coach just said try to penetrate, create something.  Or try to get in the side to create something.  And I thought the flow of the game went where I could get in the lane and penetrate and get some baskets for us.


Q.  This is for George Zwikker.  Can you tell us what it was like to cover Big Country, and was it more physical than you expected?  How did you manage to keep him off balance so much in the second half?

GEORGE ZWIKKER:  It was pretty physical.  But he's really heavy, he's 295, it's quite a weight.  And in the second half I think I moved my feet more than I did in the first half.  And I was trying to fight for the position with him more in the second half.  So, that's how I think I got a little bit more off balance for him.  Plus he played the whole first half, and I played about a half of the first half.  So, I was more rested than he was for the second half.


Q.  Tyus, you had a layup in the first half that put you guys up 20 to 11, where you drove into the lane  and put it back up over your head.  Where exactly does a shot like that come from, and do you have a name for it?

TYUS EDNEY:  No, I don't think -- I don't know.  It's playground when you're growing up, and you kind of learn how to do shots like that.  And it just happened, I guess, basically. That's the only way I could get the shot up, I remember.


Q.  Question for Ed.  Ed, two questions.  One, I was wondering if you could talk about the play of your brother Charles, offensively. The second thing, you talked about your defense in the zone against Big Country.

ED O'BANNON:  Well, I think Charles played a great game.  He stepped it up in all phases of the game, rebounding and shooting and scoring, and defense.  And he played a very good game.  It was what we expected of him basically.  And in the zone, the big fellow, you can't really do much to stop him, so what we try to do is get as many people around him and get as many hands in his face once he got it, and try to make him kick it back out, basically.


Q.  Can you talk about Tyus, just him at the end of the game, what he's been at the end of the game so many games and today especially?

ED O'BANNON:  I think it actually goes further than the end of this game.  It actually goes our whole career.  I think one thing that Tyus does very well is control the tempo of the game.  And we expected him to do that today, and he did  that throughout the game.  I think he actually stepped it up even more at the end of the game.  And it's a tribute to him, he's played with injuries.  He's carried this team for four years, and he's brought us to where we are today.  So, I say it all the time time; I'm happy I'm playing with him.


Q.  Ed, do you feel people underestimated you personally on the team as a defensive players?  All we heard about was Oklahoma State and that you guys were just this uptempo team?

ED O'BANNON:  Yeah, I think so.  I think people underestimate our defense.  And I think they underestimate our half court offense.  But that's fine, I hope they do it again on Monday.  I think we're strong, when we play our type of game.  And I think when Tyus controls the game and controls the tempo, we're very successful.  And hopefully that can happen again on Monday.


Q.  Tyus, you don't need to be modest on this question.  Can anybody guard you?

ED O'BANNON:  No.


Q.  Has anybody guarded you this year, stopped you in the half court offense to penetrate and, if so, who, and how do they do it?

TYUS EDNEY:  Not really.  I've usually found that I've been able to get in the lane and cause problems for a lot of the teams.  And hopefully that will remain the case.  If I can  keep getting in the lane and causing problems, that's what I'm going to keep doing.


Q.  This for Ed.  When Tyus made that over-the-head shot, your bench broke up so that the referee calmed people down.  What did you think of that shot?

ED O'BANNON:  I don't know.  I was --  it threw me for a loop.  It was a great shot.  He was very much under control. And he just put it off the glass, and I was going off as much as the guys on the bench, so it was a great shot.


Q.  Tyus, how did you hurt your wrist and how does it feel now?

TYUS EDNEY:  I fell in the first half, I took a bad fall early.  And it's just a little sore.  It's more preventative.


Q.  Tyus, when they (inaudible) -- on the key drive at the end, as you're going in, the guy is coming up, and the hand that came out was I believe Big Country's, how aware were you that it was him and how did you react to it?

TYUS EDNEY:  Actually I did see him come over, and I felt that I could get the shot up, and it didn't really intimidate me or anything like that.  I don't think I remember him blocking any of them before or anything like that.  I just knew I had an angle on him and I could probably get the shot up.


Q.  This is for all three.  Is there a team  you better match up against, Arkansas or North Carolina?

GEORGE ZWIKKER:  I don't think we really care.  We're going to play the next game, our team is based on defense, and if we play intense defense, I think we can play both of the teams.  We don't really care.

TYUS EDNEY:  It's kind of hard to say.  I think both of those teams I feel match up with us pretty well.  North Carolina probably has a little more size, and in that sense they probably match up with our size a little better.  It's hard to say.  Both teams play excellent defense and shoot well on offense.  I think either team will be a tough battle.


Q.  George, can you describe your reaction to Tyus's first half shot, and also what did you and Big Country say to each other after the game?

GEORGE ZWIKKER:  What shot are you talking about? I've seen those shots so many times during the four years I've been on the team, so I just chalked it up to it wasn't anything that unusual.  After the game I told Country that he played a hell of a game and he was a great player.


Q.  Coach, when you guys came out of the timeout somewhere around 4, 4:30.  You played (inaudible) -- and they scored three times.  Can you explain what your  thinking was when you went into the zone, and was it the run that convinced you to come back into it?

COACH HARRICK:  Are you talking about the first or second half?


Q.  Second half, down the stretch.

COACH HARRICK:  I thought at the four minute mark on that timeout we came out in zone, didn't we?  We came out in the zone, exactly what happened.  And as soon as I looked out there, Reeves put his hand up looking at Coach Sutton, and I know they talked all the time out about a man-to-man play. They're a very strong man-to-man set offensive team.  That's their whole mentality.  Their whole goal is setting screens and running their plays.  Boy, are they good at it.  We wanted to change it up.  I wanted to make those couple other guys chase us, if they could.


Q.  Coach, was part of the problem that your big men were in foul trouble.  Did that go into switching to zone?

COACH HARRICK:  No, we planned on that when J.R. Henderson was in the game, because I know it would be a load for him to guard him.  We wanted to look at the zone early in that first half to see how they would react to it.  The Big Eight conference is primarily a man-to-man conference, and in our small lineup, we cover the court very well.  And I think that might be the most zone we've played all year long, but we  hoped we could be effective in it.  We wanted to look at the first half and see how they reacted.  And I wanted to change it up the second half, because, boy, when they get into the flow, they were 1 for 7 in the zone the first half and then they hit three straight.  So, we went back to the man, and in the second half we played man.  And then we got four on J.R. and four on George, and the last 7 minutes we went into the zone, I think --  we went into about the 4:40 mark, and timeout.  And I know they talked about their man-to-man play, and then we came out in the zone, and that really helped us.  But more importantly, Edney got into the middle.  I was just telling him, take him, because he's hard to guard, fellows.


Q.  Coach, I was wondering how important you thought the play of Charles O'Bannon was, especially offensively.  There were stretches where the team needed scoring, and he provided it.

COACH HARRICK:  Huge.  Charles O'Bannon was huge tonight.  7 for 9, 5 for 5, six rebounds, 2 assists, a turnover and a steal, and a blocked shot.  I don't see it, but I saw it on Collins's jumper at the end of the game, big time block of a two or three point jump shot.  Big time block.  Tell the statistics guys they missed one.


Q.  Jim, can you talk a little bit more about Edney and what he did down the stretch taking over, he obviously does that most of the time for you. 

COACH HARRICK:  He's played that way four years for us, he's really a very, very difficult guy to guard, he's got great moves, he's deceptive, you think he's small and wiry, but he can shoot to three.  He can get in the key.  I told him before the game, I said Tyus get into the paint and pull up, because there will be a lot of trees in there and they'll take the charge.  But you give the guy a little bit of direction, and you let him go, and that's the way I coach him.  And I tell you something, I'm so happy for Tyus Edney that the Country got to see what kind of basketball player he really is.  And he's been certainly a terrific player in this tournament.  He's come up real big.


Q.  Coach Harrick, I just want to know if you could tell us how you feel about playing in your first or bringing your first National Championship game on Monday, and also would you like to see Arkansas or Carolina.

COACH HARRICK:  I can't answer that, because it gives them too much fuel.  I really don't know, honestly, the answer to that question about who to play.  You know, as a basketball coach I'll go home now and we'll stay up most of the night watching tape.  And it really --  it really doesn't --  I don't have a reaction, I'm just getting ready for the next game.  And I hope maybe by July my voice is only good enough for one more game, and then I'll have to yell "fore" --  that was a joke. But sometime this summer it will hit me that we're playing for  the championship.  And that's a goal and dream and aspiration of every coach that's ever come on the floor to bring your team to this game, and hopefully win it.  It's a great, great feeling for me, from where I've come from to where I am now, it's a great feeling.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT