AL DIVISION SERIES: ATHLETICS v YANKEES
October 13, 2001
Barry Zito
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Barry, as well as you pitched today, how tough was it to see your whole day basically ruined on one pitch?

BARRY ZITO:  It's pretty tough.  You know going into a game like this that it's going to be very low scoring, especially with Mussina throwing.  And it was a fastball that should have went in and it didn't.  I remember last year Posada got the only run.  I have to bare down on him next time.  Mussina pitched great, and hopefully we'll come out tomorrow and get some runs.

Q.  Would you say this is as much as you could have expected from yourself today?

BARRY ZITO:  I think so.  If you make a mistake most times, it's not going to get hit out of the park.  Most times they'll foul it up or pop it back.  I have to tip my hat to Posada for capitalizing on my mistake.  Holding them and -- it's tough losing a game like that, but then again I felt good that I had my stuff tonight and I could hold them to a run.

Q.  You guys are a pretty close staff.  Have you guys said anything to Corey about pitching to the Yankees?

BARRY ZITO:  We haven't really talked with each other about hitters.  It's basically Peterson and his elaborate scouting reports.  Hats off to him, he gets us very prepared.  For us to come out and hold the Yanks to those amount of runs that we have in three games, it's a big attribute to our pitching coach. 

Q.  Have you ever pitched a game and lost with as few as two hits?

BARRY ZITO:  Yeah, the last game that I remember, I was actually talking to Mulder, I said have you ever won 1-0.  He said in college.  I've lost 1-0 twice now.  The other time was against Stanford at the super regionals.

Q.  Seems like that one inning where Posada hit the home run was the only time they really hit the ball hard.  Was there anything strange about that inning?

BARRY ZITO:  Like I said the ball was supposed to get in and it didn't.  The first pitch to Shane Spencer, but I didn't change anything, I didn't change my mental approach.  I pretty much stuck with my game plan.

Q.  In terms of pitches that didn't do what you wanted them to, like the one to Posada, were there many of those today or not?

BARRY ZITO:  Yeah, two of them.  Well, obviously two hit baters.  The one to Tino got away, and that's been a problem.  Sometimes I come into lefties and it tails up and away.  And the one to Jeter, I don't know how that ball got so up and in.  I don't know how far in it was.  But those are probably the only two that got away, a pretty good amount.

Q.  Barry, what was working really well for you today?

BARRY ZITO:  The fastball to both sides of the plate is something that I need to establish, to make my speed work.  And the fastball in was definitely a good pitch for me tonight, and I could go away when I needed to.  The curveball wasn't unbelievable.  Like once or twice I've had a really good one.  But it was good enough.  And the change-up was a good pitch tonight for me.

Q.  Barry, you said the two hit pitches and the two batsmen, were there only four pitches you really say you would have missed on?

BARRY ZITO:  I would say, if you really want to get particular I could say that I left the ball over the plate to Knoblauch and he fouled it back.  But for the most part those are the ones that got away a good amount.

Q.  Can you explain how your emotions -- this is your second postseason game, will you talk about your emotions being at home, as opposed to being at Yankee Stadium?

BARRY ZITO:  I think last year I was too naive to really get excited and stuff.  This year I had more butterflies and I felt more anxious, not nervous, but more anxious, and I was happy I was able to control those emotions into a positive way. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT