NCAA MEN'S FIRST FOUR: DAYTON
March 14, 2016
Luke Kornet
Wade Baldwin IV
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We're joined by student-athletes Wade Baldwin IV and Luke Kornet.  Questions?
Q. Luke, Wichita State talked a lot a minute ago about the size difference and every team you guys have played have talked about that.  Have you guys used the size difference, or how do you use it?  Do you think you've used it effectively?
LUKE KORNET: I think it helps us in certain ways more.  I think in terms of contesting shots around the goal it helps us a lot and defensively in general, being able to cover more area.  And I think offensively, I mean, Damian especially, just get the ball inside to them.  I think it comes into play more defensively than anything, though.
Q. Wade, a minute ago Wichita State's coach compared you to Russell Westbrook.  You're getting a lot of NBA hype over this year.  How do you balance that of your draft stock or the attention you've gotten with being the point guard and the leader of this team?  How do you balance those two, and have you done better over time with that?
WADE BALDWIN IV: Ever since a kid, it's been a dream to be a part of the NCAA Tournament.  And that's the first goal, to get there.  And I'm here right now.  And I'm just trying to seize the opportunity all season.  We've been working hard to get to this point, and we earned the spot.  And I'm just living the dream right now and we're on a mission.
Q. Wade, it looks like Matthew Fisher-Davis has really been scoring really well over the last eight or 10 games.  Can you just talk me through, maybe what's changed or why he's playing so well recently?
WADE BALDWIN IV: Matthew's been putting a lot more time in the gym.  He's a terrific shooter, just by nature.  And he's been in gym for the past two, three months, and it's definitely starting to click for him now.  I think he has over 150 3s on the season that he's attempted.  I mean, the kid's a hell of a shooter, has size and is starting to get a better feel for everything on the court.
Q. Wade, you're facing two, I think, All-American guards for Wichita State.  How familiar are you with them?  Do they remind you of anybody that you've seen?
WADE BALDWIN IV: I didn't know who they were until yesterday when they told us about their team.  So I'm not really familiar with them at all.  But I will be -- I was last night.  I will be a lot today.
Q. If both of you could address this.  I've talked to a couple of people who have seen Vanderbilt play a lot this season.  They said Vanderbilt kind of up and down, disappointing regular season.  But they were the kind of team getting into the tournament could really give them new life.  And he said he could see them going really far in this tournament because of the talent.  Do you feel the same way?
WADE BALDWIN IV: I definitely feel that way.  We're on full display now.  It's win or go home, season over.  We have seniors on our team.  We don't want them to go out unhappy.  We're trying to play and get to Providence right now.  That's our main goal.  We're going to take one game at a time.
LUKE KORNET: I would say it has been a long season.  And there's been, as is with any team some positives and negatives.  But I'd say that if just developing some sort of momentum we can be a very dangerous team.  And I think we have all the pieces to make a run in this tournament and we definitely plan on it.  And everything starts with this first game.  And I mean we're really just trying to take it a day at a time, and if we could come out tomorrow and play very well and potentially to develop some momentum.  But I think the first game is -- it's really the most important.  And it's just all about bringing our intensity and focus tomorrow.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT