U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
October 11, 2017
Thomas Todd, III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Obviously didn't go the way you wanted almost from the start.  
THOMAS TODD III: Yes, sir.  Made a good par on the 1st hole to halve the hole.  He made a nice birdie on me on 2.  Then he started hitting good shots and putting pressure on me and I started hitting bad ones and missing greens.   
You know, just he would have a birdie putt and I would have a par putt.  It got going bad.  He played really well.  I give him credit for that.  He won that 2nd hole, and then after that he hit good shot after good shot and kept putting heat on me.   
I didn't respond well today.   
 Q.  All the confidence you had going into today, was it still there?  
THOMAS TODD III: It was still there, yes, sir, but I just kind of -- I said yesterday I hopefully wake up on the right side of the bed, and you're not always going to have your best timing and all.  I didn't have it today.  I kept battling.   
Also, I think when you get -- I got 4-down after 5.  I think when you get 4-down -- it's so easy to play from 4-up and so tough to play from 4-down.   
Just got going south.  I wasn't able to right the ship today.   
 Q.  Anything in your game that...  
THOMAS TODD III: Yes, sir.  I didn't drive it as well, for one.  Then my speed on the greens seemed to be really off.  I've had great speed all week and putts have just been dying in and I was knocking them six feet by.   
I don't know what caused it.  I told my dad I thought we both seemed a little jumpy.  We both did.  Just a little jumpy, a little tight today.   
I don't know why, but hopefully we'll learn from it and hopefully get back in and get another shot.   
 Q.  I was going to ask, what did you learn from this week?  
THOMAS TODD III: Well, that I'm capable of getting in this thing and competing.  And honestly, I'll tell you, I played it with Scott Harvey a lot, and when he won in '14, that kind of made me believe, well maybe I can compete in this thing.   
So I've learned a lot.  I learned, like I told you, to really just enjoy it and take it a shot at time.  It's an honor just to be here.   
What else did I learn?   
I learned you got to -- it's a marathon.  You got to be able to do it day in and day out.  Like I said, I just didn't have it today.  It was still overall a great week.  Like I said, look forward to -- hopefully be in Charlotte next year, and look forward to many more mid-ams and hopefully making some runs at them.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT