SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 4, 2015
Bud Cauley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MARK STEVENS: All right, so your first PGA TOUR event since I think it's the 2014 Wyndham Championship.  Just kind of talk about your thoughts coming into the week and what you've been through a little bit?   
BUD CAULEY: Yeah, I'm excited.  Like you said, it's been 14 months since I've played on a TOUR event, so I've put in a lot of work to get healthy and get my game back and come out here and play.  So I feel ready to go.  Now's the fun part just to be able to go out and play.   
 Q.  Are you pain free?  
BUD CAULEY: Yeah, I feel great.   
 Q.  Any limitations or anything like that?  
BUD CAULEY: No, not at all.  I took my time with all the physical therapy and my surgeon did a great job.  And Matt Serlo who I did all my physical therapy with, he didn't take it easy on me, that's for sure.  So I feel great.  I feel just as good as I did before.  Yeah, just excited to play.   
 Q.  Your game you feel pretty confident it's pretty close to where it was?  
BUD CAULEY: Yeah, my game feels in good shape.  Over the last few months I've been up to see my coach quite a bit to make sure my swing's where I need it to be.  Obviously, I've had a lot of time to work on my short game, so I feel ready to go.   
 Q.  Just kind of give us specifics on was it just straight --  
BUD CAULEY: I tore my labrum.  I had a posterior subluxation which is when my shoulder came out of the socket and came back in.  It happened for the first time on the 9th home at John Deere.  It came out and came back in.  It had a little tear.  Did a couple months of physical therapy, trying to avoid surgery.  Came back, played a couple weeks and it happened again.  When it happened again, the muscles were so stretched out I had to have surgery to repair my labrum and put some anchors in there to make sure it doesn't slip out again.   
 Q.  What is your thought?  You see all these young guys coming out now winning.  We've had three guys win.  None of them over 24.  Do you feel left out of that mix?  
BUD CAULEY: Yeah, it's tough having been at home for the last in over a year.  And everybody out here loves playing golf and loves competing, so it's nice just to be out here and feel like I'm back in the mix.  Just want to go out -- like I said, I missed the competition a lot, so I'm looking forward to getting out there and competing with these guys.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT