THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 6, 2014
Bud Cauley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You made a lot of people happy out there.   Tell us about the shot.  
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah.   It was a great way to finish.   It was a pretty good club for me, I had good yardage, just nice little cut 7‑iron in there and made a good swing.  
   
 Q.   You could tell by the roar, and obviously you could see it, but did you feel like it had a chance?  
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah, I mean it looked good in the air and then it landed, and I thought it was going to be pretty close, but just kind of judging off everyone else's reaction.   
I didn't know it went in at first.   Obviously you never think they're going in, but that was a nice surprise.  
   
 Q.   It was a challenging hole location.  
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah, it's tough over there.   It's probably the most difficult one all week, so it was nice not to have to putt.  
   
 Q.   You just missed one yesterday out there?  
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah.   Yeah.   I left one about six inches short there yesterday, so I played that one pretty nice this week.  
   
 Q.   And what were you thinking as you walked up to the tee?   Here we go again?  
BUD CAULEY:   You know, to be honest, I never even thought about it.   I was really happy with my up‑and‑down on 17, tough lie.   And then I was just trying to finish with a birdie and move up that leaderboard.  
   
 Q.   Were you aware that the fans would get a little payday if somebody made a hole‑in‑one there?  
BUD CAULEY:   I wasn't.   I actually just found that out.   So happy to help everybody out there, including myself.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk a little bit about Quicken Loans just came out with something where for every hole‑in‑one a PGA TOUR pro makes in a tournament right now, they will pay somebody's mortgage for a year.   Can you talk about how cool that could be?  
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah.   For sure.   That's awesome.   You know, whoever ends up benefitting from that, I'm sure it'll help out a lot and make a huge difference in their lives.   So that's quite of Quicken Loans to be able to do something like that and help somebody out.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT