TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2014
Bud Cauley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Like to welcome Bud Cauley.   Bud, you got 7‑under, 63.   If you kind of want to take us through the highlights of your round and then we'll have a few questions.   
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah.   I got off to a solid start in the beginning, was hitting some good shots and a couple of putts slid by, but I was able to make a good birdie on 14 and hit a good drive on 15, up to about 20 feet and rolled that one in for eagle.   So kind of got my round going and just kind of continued to make solid birdies from there.  
I had a little mishap on 2, or just a poor wedge, made a bogey, but other than that, hit a lot of good shots and rolled in some putts.   
THE MODERATOR:   Okay.   Questions.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk a little bit about 15, how that got your round started?  
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah.   Like I said, coming off a birdie was nice.   Feel like I was getting my round going.   It's nice to come to a drivable hole after you make a birdie, feel like you can kind of get something going.   And you know, couldn't have asked for a better tee shot up there, landed just short and kind of bounced up to about 20 feet, and that's one of the toughest pins on that green, that back right.   So hit it up there, kind of had a little tricky putt, and was able to make it and just played solid from there.  
   
 Q.   Last year and a half has been a little bit of a struggle for you at times.   Just wondering if you can kind of maybe pinpoint‑‑ I know there have been some injuries and things as well, but what's been the toughest part of that stretch.   And then secondly, was today just a case of you feel like progress or was it just a case of just playing good golf?  
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah.   You know, I have been struggling the past, like you said, year and a half.   The last few months I've started to play better and see some signs of, you know, getting back to where I think I should be.   My ball striking is starting to come around.   And then really the last couple months have just been if I putted well, then I've played well.   If I haven't then, you know, I've sort of struggled.  
But yeah, I feel like I'm doing the right things and working on the right things and coming out here and executing and seeing the results.  
   
 Q.   When you started off the round, was it raining?   How hard was it raining?   How did it change during the round?  
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah.   It was raining a little bit.   It rained I think the first three holes and then all of us took our jackets off.   It might have sprinkled one other time after that.   But for the most part it was nice.   Actually it was a little bit cool this morning, which was nice, and I think the sun started coming out when we were making the turn, so it was nice from there on in.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone)?  
BUD CAULEY:   It got a little bit warmer.   The ball started to go a little bit farther.   But that's something you're already kind of expecting when you play in the morning, so it was a little bit more so just because it was cool and it got so much warmer, but not too big of an adjustment.  
   
 Q.   When you were at 9‑under pretty early on, did you start thinking about course record, anything like that turning around?   How low do you think people are going to have to go this week.   Looks like a lot of birdies out there.   
BUD CAULEY:   No, I never thought about‑‑ I don't know what the course record is, so I have no idea.   I was just trying to make as many birdies as I could.   
As far as how low, it's playing really soft right now.   The course is in great shape, so if the wind stays down, and I don't know if we're supposed to get more rain or not, but if it stays like this, you're going to have to make a lot of birdies, because the fairways being soft it's easier to get it in the fairway, and then kind of the defense here is how they can tuck the pins with the slopes and everything.   When it's soft, it just makes it that much easier.   So if you hit the ball well, you're going to have a lot of opportunities to make birdie.   
   
 Q.   What was the best shot you hit today?  
BUD CAULEY:   Probably the one on the last just because, you know, it's nice to finish off a round like that, about 100 yards and hit it up there to about a foot, so it's nice to just have a little tap‑in to finish your round off.   No worries or stress.   Makes lunch taste a little bit better.   
But really and truly it's probably the drive on 15.   You know, with that pin back right, if you hit it right, that's not where you want to be, and obviously there's water left, so I hit that right where I was trying to and rolled it up there and capitalized with the putt.  
   
 Q.   About 15, that's an unusual hole.   I know Riviera is another short par‑4.   Talk to me about 15.   What's appealing?   It's a very risk‑reward kind of hole.   
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah, I like it.   You know, with one good swing you can almost guarantee a birdie and have a good chance for eagle.   And same with a bad swing, if you hit it in the water, then you're struggling for par or making bogey.   
So I think it's great.   It just‑‑ you know, it instantly rewards you for stepping up there and hitting a good shot.   So hopefully I can hit three more the rest of the week like I did today.   
THE MODERATOR:   Okay.   Everybody good in thanks for your time, bud.   Good luck tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT