SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 30, 2013
Bud Cauley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Thanks so much.   Playing the weekend for the first time on the PGA TOUR in nearly -- was there a sense a round like this was coming with you?  
BUD CAULEY:   I've been working real hard on my game.   I haven't played my best these last couple months but been working hard and felt like good golf was going to be pretty soon in the future.  
   
 Q.   What does a round today do for you heading into Sunday and also a place where you finished tied for 8th here a year ago?  
BUD CAULEY:   It's going to give me a chance.   The leaders are just teeing off now.   I'm sure they're going to go out there and make some birdies.   I needed a low one today to get myself back in it.  
   
 Q.   Bud, 8th last year here.   Is it the water, is it the beer, what is it that you like here if Texas?  
BUD CAULEY:   I don't know.   I don't think it's the beer.   I don't know.   I like this golf course.   Last year I was kind of playing well coming into here and kind of continued on.   This week I hadn't had my best leading up, but got here and working hard and I hit some good shots and got some confidence.  
   
 Q.   Having Tony Navarro, a veteran on the bag, it's easy for a caddy to help you.   How beneficial has he been through the tough stretch, we're doing good things, don't worry about it?  
BUD CAULEY:   Tony is just a great guy, really, and I've been a little down in the dumps lately, but he's been right there to pick me up along with everybody, all my friends and family, too.   It's been nice, working hard, and glad to see some rewards from it.  
   
 Q.   What happened yesterday on the little 3-hole stretch, was it just a couple of bad swings and didn't get away with them?  
BUD CAULEY:   I really don't know.   Everything was going great.   I hit a bad drive and thought I hit a pretty good second into No. 3, the wind caught it and knocked it in the water.   I went into a little daze.   Luckily righted the ship to really make the cut after being up there and got it going today.  
   
 Q.   For a young guy to deal with a tough stretch of holes and to play a great round today, good job, keep it going and have some fun.   You're due to get near the top of the leaderboard.  
BUD CAULEY:   Making birdies is fun.   We'll try to do it tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   What's your deal?   Is it a combination of the fact that you're playing well and the fact that you like the golf course, or what's the reason?  
BUD CAULEY:   I definitely had good vibes coming back here, playing well before but kind of a grain of salt.   I finished 4th last year at Bay Hill and went out there.   I've been working real hard on my game.   I think more than anything, that's why I'm playing well.  
   
 Q.   You got the 3-hole stretch in yesterday's round, right up there at the top.   What kind of happened yesterday a little bit?  
BUD CAULEY:   You know, I mean, there's a lot of water out there and I made a couple of loose swings and it cost me.   After making loose swings, I didn't save any shots so except on 6, made a good bogey on 6 and kind of righted the ship for me and was able to par in from there and get out of here for the night.   I just had a couple bad swings.   No real explanation.   Need to stay away from that.  
   
 Q.   Did you kind of feel a really good round coming early in the round?  
BUD CAULEY:   I did.   Even after yesterday what happened, I knew I was playing really well.   Like I say, you take those three holes away, I had another good round going.   I just tried to focus on that and come out and kind of pick back up where I was before those three holes.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT