THE MCGLADREY CLASSIC
October 20, 2012
Bud Cauley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Bud, every round of golf is different, but this one sure seemed a whole lot like yesterday.   You only missed a couple of fairways, you only missed a couple of greens, but never really got yourself close enough enough times to make a lot of birdies?
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah.   I hit it a little bit better today than yesterday, but like you said, I didn't really give myself enough chances.   I birdied the par‑5s which was good and I hit a lot of good drives and had some short irons in.   Just wasn't able to get it close.

Q.   Golf course didn't give much today.   It started out breezy, and just like yesterday the breeze kind of laid down on the back side, but the golf course still didn't give much today. 
BUD CAULEY:   No.   You still have to hit good shots.   Where the pins are, you're always a little bit leery of being long or left or right because they're always up against the edge. 
So tomorrow just have to go out there and be a little more aggressive and get it a little closer.

Q.   Why do you like this course so much?
BUD CAULEY:   I don't know.   I've just always played well here.   I think a few shots fit my eye pretty well.   I like to be aggressive on some of the holes where other guys are laying up, and hitting some short putts in.   Unfortunately the last couple of days I haven't taken advantage of that, but I'm going to try to do that tomorrow.

Q.   You talked about being aggressive.   I thought you were more aggressive with the putter today than you were yesterday. 
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah.   I hit a lot of good putts.   A few of them at the end I just lacked a little bit of speed.   On 16 had hit something and bounced.
Yeah, hit a lot of good putts.   But you know what, you gotta give yourself chances.

Q.   You'll have some chances tomorrow.   Good luck to you. 

Q.   Bud, you said you drove the ball really well today.   When was the last time on a PGA TOUR you were outdriving your competitors by so much?
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah.   They were making me look good today.   I've seen them go a long ways, but they kept on knocking it inside of me which was really good.

Q.   With that said, I mean did you feel like you did enough today to give yourself a chance to win this golf tournament?
BUD CAULEY:   I mean I definitely think I'm still in it.   I was three back.   I definitely missed a lot of shots out there today.   Some of the places I drove it you would have a better look at birdie.   A little bit of a sour taste in my mouth, but it's encouraging that I'm driving it this well.   If I can figure out the irons, just be able to give it a shot tomorrow.

Q.   You talked about the irons.   What else gives you confidence that tomorrow could be that day when you break through?
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah.   I've been hitting the ball welcoming into here.   Obviously I hit it really well the first day and there's something just a little off with the irons. 
But I'm still hitting the ball really solid.   It's just starting off line.   So I'm going to go out there and work on that and not do anything too crazy.   So hopefully I can figure it out and hit it well tomorrow.

Q.   Work on that and watch maybe some Alabama football later on tonight as well.   Thanks for joining us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT