THE MCGLADREY CLASSIC
October 19, 2012
Bud Cauley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Bud Cauley makes a 70 after a story of 62 on the first day.   What was the difference between those two rounds for you?
BUD CAULEY:   I just didn't hit my irons as well today.   I drove the ball well again, but there were tough pins.   They moved them forward a little bit this morning, and it's a little bit softer, so it's probably a little bit longer for me.   And I just didn't hit my irons in there as well.

Q.   Overall everyone talks about the fact that a lot of times when a guy wins, you'll have one day when it's just not going quite right.   Do you feel like you minimized the damage on a day where you didn't have it?
BUD CAULEY:   I think so.   I got up and down or had a few nice up‑and‑downs out there and left two‑putts throughout the four or five‑footers for par.   So I'm happy.   I would have loved to have shot under par.   But even is not too bad, and I'm going to work on the irons a little bit and hopefully I'll be close tomorrow.

Q.   What's your excitement about being here on a weekend with a chance to win again?
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah.   It's going to be a lot of fun.   Still half the tournament left, but I'm hitting the ball well and I'm seeing the lines on the greens really well, too.   So if I can just get a little bit closer, I think I'll do a little bit better.

Q.   What was the difference between an opening 62 and a second round 70?   There was a little more wind, but not a lot more. 
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah, it was a little bit more.   The course played soft this morning and a little bit longer, so had some longer clubs in.   But really just didn't hit my irons as well.   I drove the ball well, put it in play, but just didn't get it close enough.

Q.   Jason Day was telling me about how the putts, the hole placements today were right on ridges, right on the changes of grains, really hard to figure out today. 
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah, it was.   Seemed like on every hole there were a couple right on the edge, and just like you said, it would go up into the grain and downhill back down grain. 
And really, if you hit good shots, you can get it close, but if you're a little bit off, it left you with a tough putt.

Q.   Disappointed in anything or just one of those days where you have to kind of hold it together and there are days like that?
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah.   Just kind of didn't have it today.   You know, I would have loved to have shot under par, but even is not too bad, so I'm going to go on the range and work on it and hopefully play better on the weekend.

Q.   You gotta be pretty pleased with where you are, though, all things considered; you shoot an even par round.   After yesterday you'd think an even par round would not be a good place to be, but you're right there. 
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah.   It's okay.   You know, it's playing a little more different today, like we were saying, with the pins.   We'll see. 
I'm sure some of the guys will go out there and shoot some good scores, but like I say, I'm in a good place going into the last two days.

Q.   You and Michael Thompson this weekend, the Alabama boys, I'm thinking there oughta be something in it, who gets to play with Coach Saban out of Pebble Beach next spring.   Can we get that started?   If I call Coach Saban, can we make you guys play into that?
BUD CAULEY:   I don't know.   I already have my partner.   He's going to have to find his own.

Q.   Oh, you've got a partner. 
BUD CAULEY:   Oh, no.   I'm talking about Coach Saban.

Q.   Oh, yeah, you got him last year. 
BUD CAULEY:   If he'll play with me again, I'll definitely do that.

Q.   Good luck to you this weekend. 
BUD CAULEY:   All right.   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT