THE MCGLADREY CLASSIC
October 18, 2012
Bud Cauley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DOUG MILNE:   We'll jump right in.   Bud Cauley, great playing today, 8‑under 62, new career low for you.   Just some comments on the round and then we'll take some questions.   
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah.   Really no complaints today.   I've been struggling with my driving a little bit, and I've been working hard on that and was able to drive it really well today.  
And then took advantage of that with some great iron shots and made most of the putts, so all in all it was a really good day.  
DOUG MILNE:   This is obviously a special place for you.   You played here last year and did well.   Just some thoughts on the overall vibes of just being here at The McGladrey Classic.  
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah.   I love it up here.   Like you said, I played last year and played well.   I think I was 13th or 15th, something like that and I've played up here a few times for SEC championships in college.   So played a lot of golf up here and feel comfortable on the course and love to come back.  
DOUG MILNE:   Okay.   With that we'll take questions.  
   
 Q.   Obviously, can you just talk about what you were able to do on the Back 9, six birdies, 29?   What was working for you and how were you able to turn in such a strong performance?  
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah.   I just ‑‑ you know, on the Back 9 there were a couple of shorter holes where if you get in the fairway, you have wedges in your hand.   And I really just hit good shots, drove the ball in the fairway and put wedges in my hand.   I think I had a wedge on 10, sand wedge on 11.   Was able to birdie both of those.   Just hit good wedge shots and put the ball in the right spot on the green to leave myself pretty easy putts.   
   
 Q.   And obviously a lot of guys are here trying to lock up cards, kind of worried.   Can you talk about what you're here for besides obviously the area and what you're trying to accomplish going into next year and what you're kind of working on?  
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah.   Obviously I've thought about winning every tournament I've teed up in this year.   It's been a long year and although I've played a lot this year, I haven't won.   It's still a goal of mine, but I'm not thinking about that while I'm out there or putting any more pressure on myself this week.   
Just the season is kind of winding down.   It would be great to win.   I'd love to win here, especially with all the tournaments and all the times I've played out here.   But still just trying to get better every day and shoot a 62.  
   
 Q.   What's after this for you?   
BUD CAULEY:   This is probably going to be it.   This is probably my last tournament.  
   
 Q.   It just seems like you really get it going at this time of year.   
BUD CAULEY:   I'm not sure.   I guess in college ‑‑ actually I'd probably say I played a little bit better in the spring in college than I did in the fall, but I don't really think it matters as long as I just ‑‑ maybe it's the places.   I'm not sure.   I didn't play real good last week.   But I feel really comfortable here.   I don't know if it has much to do with fall or spring.   
DOUG MILNE:   Anybody else?   All right.   Short and sweet.   Bud, we appreciate your time.   Great playing today.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT