WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 20, 2012
Bud Cauley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   With an extra day's play, but you did get a good finish, good tournament.   What do you take out of Wyndham Championship?
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah, I played really well.   I played, like I said, solid.   It was tough hacking out of the rough.   I played well.   I hit a lot of shots coming in and fortunately didn't give myself enough close birdies.

Q.   It seemed like early in the round today there was something to read on the green speed.
BUD CAULEY:   Took a couple putts and I think I adjusted pretty well.

Q.   I don't know if you're aware, Augusta National, a big day.   They admitted two female members to the club this fall when it reopens. 
What is your reaction to that?
BUD CAULEY:   I think it's great.   They do whatever they like to do so I'm sure those two ladies will be very happy members and they'll take full advantage of it.

Q.   That was a phenomenal finish out there.   Obviously playing with Sergio, final group.   You held it together fairly well I thought after a rough start on 5 and 6.   What were you thinking out there?
BUD CAULEY:   I got off to a little bit of a rough start, bogeying my first two holes was tough but I rallied and hit some good shots coming in and fortunately there on the back-9 I missed the fairways and wasn't able to give myself many looks at birdie as I wanted.

Q.   The thing, 14, great par save there.   You still had a good chance.
BUD CAULEY:   I thought it looked good the whole way.   I birdied 15 which was nice and then just like I said, didn't hit good iron shots coming in.   Sergio was good every hole.

Q.   What's your comfort level like being in the final group, obviously a chance to win a golf tournament, did you feel comfortable, did you learn anything?
BUD CAULEY:   I feel great.   I was trying to -- I thought a couple shots I got quick, trying to -- thinking about that and my tempo and try to hit.   I thought I hit it pretty well.

Q.   You hit it great.   I wonder if you felt relaxed.
BUD CAULEY:   I felt fine, good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT