THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2012
Bud Cauley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about what it was like?   
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah, I didn't have the best day.   Kind of played average.   Played the par 5s well and kind of had a train wreck there on 14.   But did a lot of things well.   I just need to cut out some mistakes.   
   
 Q.   Talking with Matt Every early in the week, he said you had some competitions here, but he also said this place is completely different.   
BUD CAULEY:   It is.   It's a completely different golf course.   It's nice to be familiar with the layout but half the clubs you're hitting off tees are different, and obviously shots into greens and things like that.   It's quite a bit different.   
   
 Q.   Is this a golf course that you ever can relax on, or is it always, you've got to pay attention on every shot?   
BUD CAULEY:   I mean, definitely, you have to pay attention on every shot.   There's a lot of trouble.   You have to hit good shots and if you don't, like I showed today, you can end up in some bushes and some serious trouble.   
   
 Q.   What was it like on 17?   
BUD CAULEY:   It was fun.   I had a lot of buddies behind the tee box, so they were yelling.   Unfortunately didn't hit too good of a shot; but it was on land, so I'll take that.   
But the first tee was really the coolest thing.   That was by far the loudest I've been on the golf course when they introduced my name.  
Obviously I hoped to play better, but I didn't, and we'll work on it now and try to play better tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Morning draw tomorrow, does that give you some solace that you'll get the course a little bit more receptive?   
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah, definitely.   Obviously it was playing tough today with the wind and it was pretty firm out there.   So you know, maybe we can get nine holes or so where the wind is down and I'm sure our second nine will start picking up.   But try to make some birdies early.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT