THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 9, 2012
Bud Cauley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Could you briefly, other than your dad, what was it that got your interests going in golf?   Did he basically introduce you to the game?
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah, just the game of golf, everything about it, I've always enjoyed playing it.   I like the challenge of trying to get better, so it's always been a lot of fun for me. 

Q.   What age were you when you started? 
BUD CAULEY:   Five or six, yeah. 

Q.   What was it that attracted you to it?   Was it something that you had seen on TV? 
BUD CAULEY:   You know, it's hard to go back that long ago and remember.   It's just a game.   You know, it's something I've always enjoyed and loved to play. 

Q.   Did you play any other sports? 
BUD CAULEY:   I played baseball a little bit growing up, but as soon as I started playing golf, that went away pretty quick.   I grew up in Mayport, my dad was stationed there.   We moved away and came back and then moved over to Windsor Parke and started playing there. 

Q.   Keegan Bradley had a lot of success here last year, and you've even gone a little bit better than that.   What's been the key for you so far?
BUD CAULEY:   Obviously he finished pretty strong. 
I just go out every day, and really the same thing since I was six, try to get better, and these guys are obviously the best players in the world.   You have to come out every day with the mindset of trying to get better.

Q.   What's the secret for you; people look at size and think you can't be a big‑time driver, but obviously you've found a way. 
BUD CAULEY:   That's the good thing about golf.   Nobody is going to go out there and tackle you.   The golf ball doesn't know how big you are, it's just how fast you hit the club, it's still going to get out there.

Q.   What about this course, have you had a chance to play it growing up? 
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah, played quite a bit.   I would say maybe 50 times or something like that, so I'm pretty familiar with it.   Obviously with these conditions, it plays quite a bit different.   But it's still nice to play a golf course that I'm familiar with. 

Q.   What's your plan of attack?   A lot of times, first‑timers don't do well here.   It's really a struggle.   But do you feel like you have a little bit of an advantage and that you've grown up and gotten used to the bermuda greens?   Bradley made the cut last year but he had never played on a bermuda green prior to this tournament. 
BUD CAULEY:   I'm very familiar with bermudagrass.   I grew up playing on it when I was younger and I played this course quite a few times.   The key here is just keep the ball in the fairway.   It's hard to play this golf course from the rough.   I think if I can drive it well, I can give myself a chance.

Q.   What would it mean to you to not only make the cut here, but to even be a contender or be in the hunt here? 
BUD CAULEY:   It would be a lot of fun.   Obviously I've always dreamed of winning this tournament, having friends and family out.   I can't think about that now.   Just going to try and give myself a chance.

Q.   Who is going to be here? 
BUD CAULEY:   Parents, grandparents, sister, 50 buddies.   So it's going to be pretty wild. 

Q.   You're the first guy to play in the Junior Players here at Sawgrass and go on to play the PGA TOUR PLAYERS.   Give me your thoughts on that. 
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah, I had a great time out here when we had the AJGA tournament.   I played the first one, which I think was three years ago maybe.   But that was a lot of fun for me playing in my hometown. 
This is obviously a step up from that, but feel very lucky to have played both of them.

Q.   How did you do?
BUD CAULEY:   I think I finished third. 

Q.   In the first one or a follow‑up one? 
BUD CAULEY:   I only played in one.   That was my senior year of high school. 

Q.   And they keep the tees the same as they do for the PGA TOUR event.   Was it an exciting time for you to play in that event?
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah, it was a lot of fun.   I didn't play great the first two days, and I made a little run the last day.   I think I shot 68 or 69 or something like that.   Ended up missing out by a couple.

Q.   Bill Hughes is a big supporter of the Junior event.   Did you know him before that? 
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah, I knew Mr.Hughes really well.   He's a super guy.   He's helped me a lot.   I met him my sophomore or junior year in high school.   We have kept in touch ever since then. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT