ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 25, 2012
Bud Cauley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   A lot of fun once you made the putts on 8 and 9. 
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah, I played the first seven holes really solid.   Just didn't convert the putts and had a couple go in on 8 and 9 which was good.   Then a stupid mistake on 12 to make bogey there, but then coming in, I really played well except for the last two.   Just a bad putt and a bad drop on 18.

Q.   The green on 17 is hard to hold with a 4‑ or 5‑iron, isn't it?
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah, it's tough.   If you hit a solid shot, you put enough spin on it to stop it‑‑ but if you miss it at all like I did, it's pretty tough to keep it on there. 

Q.   Pretty good lie in the fairway bunker at 16 to have a chance? 
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah, it was fine. 

Q.   Were you a little charged up on the first putt?
BUD CAULEY:   No, you know, just it's a fast putt and the greens are obviously really fast, downgrain, downwind, downhill, so tough to keep it short.

Q.   I remember last year, you played with Ernie once or twice; what was it like to play with him, and would it be difficult to imagine a Masters without Ernie?
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah, it was great to play with him when we did.   He was super nice to me and the times I've seen him since then, he's been real nice. 
Yeah, it would be a little strange to have the Masters without Ernie. 

Q.   How do you keep from getting frustrated, birdie putts on 4, 5 and 6, how do you keep from getting frustrated? 
BUD CAULEY:   It just hard to make putts with the greens and the wind, you really had to hit a about put to make them.   So I made some good putts.   Hit a couple that the wind took but just kept tell myself, hitting solid shots and giving myself chances and I was going to make a couple.

Q.   If you can keep this up, more points and getting into tournaments like THE PLAYERS Championship?
BUD CAULEY:   My game is getting better and I'm looking forward to next weekend at the Shell Houston to see if I can keep improving. 

Q.   A couple comments on Tony, a great veteran caddie on your bag; what was that experience like? 
BUD CAULEY:   It was great.   Last week was Tony and my first week together, and he's great to work with.   Like you said he has a ton of experience.   I'm just trying to learn from him.

Q.   What's he doing for you? 
BUD CAULEY:   You know, everything.   I love the way we talk over golf shots, I feel like we are making really good decisions out there.   That's important.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT