SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 11, 2012
Bud Cauley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JOHN BUSH:   Bud Cauley joins us at the Sony Open in Hawai'i, playing his rookie season on TOUR but bud will are got a bit of experience under your belt, some really solid play last year.   Talk about your experience in 2011 and your expectations for this year. 
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah, you know, last year, last summer was a lot of fun for me.   I turned pro after our NCAA Championship and I didn't really know what was going to happen.   Just try to get some starts and opportunities to play and you're also fortunate to play well and played my way on the TOUR and now just excited for this year and looking to get better and keep on playing well.
JOHN BUSH:   Talk about this golf course, you played it already yesterday and how it sets up for your game.
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah, I played yesterday.   It's playing firm and fast.   It's pretty tight and narrow, you have to hit it straight and the greens are I think starting to get more firm and throughout the week they will probably firm up and get faster.   I think it sets up well for me; if I drive it well, I can give myself some good opportunities for birdies. 

Q.   Based on what you were able to do last year, do you raise your expectation level higher? 
BUD CAULEY:   You know, I can't speak for anyone else but obviously with what the guys did last year, a lot of the rookies had a lot of success, so I think it shows everyone that it doesn't matter‑‑ experience doesn't matter that much.   You go out there and everyone has the same opportunity to win and just everyone does their own specific things in their games to try to be successful.

Q.   What would be a successful year for you this year, your goals? 
BUD CAULEY:   Well, obviously my ultimate goal is to win.   You come out every week trying to win and if you don't do that, obviously you have a lot of things you can improve on.   That's obviously my main goal is to win a tournament. 

Q.   How does it feel being in such exclusive company of guys that have done what you did‑‑
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah, it's pretty cool.   It's a nice tournament to be able to skip Q‑School, so it's nice not to have to play in that one.   But you know, it doesn't get you anything other than a PGA TOUR card.   So obviously I'm happy I that‑‑ or pleased with what I did this summer, just looking to keep on getting better from there. 

Q.   I'm sure you have some friends that went through Q‑School; did they give you a tough time, or just joking around? 
BUD CAULEY:   Yeah, some of them made some comments to me.   But you know, I tell them the same thing what I said.   We are all just in the same place so we are just trying to get after it this year. 

Q.   What's your hopes for the early season schedule?   What are you going to play? 
BUD CAULEY:   Obviously this one, Humana, Torrey Pines, Phoenix, and I think I'm going to skip AT&T and play Riviera. 

Q.   Do you have any experience at any of those places? 
BUD CAULEY:   I went and played the courses for the Humana last week.   I went to Palm Springs and went and played.   But other than that, I've never played any of the courses. 

Q.   What did you think of those?
BUD CAULEY:   They are great.   Trying to remember them all.   The Palmer Course is pretty cool.   The back nine are pretty fun, back there by the mountains and whatnot and La Quinta Country Club was tight and narrow in great shape, so I think they will set up well for me.

Q.   What did you do to prepare for the season in the off‑season, any changes, work on any refinements in your game?
BUD CAULEY:   Not really.   I work on short game a lot and you can always chip‑and‑putt better.   So you know, I really work on that a lot, and not too much even really my golf swing.   I work with my coach but it's just nice to have an eye and for him to look at me and make sure I'm not doing anything crazy and just working on chipping and putting.

Q.   Who is your coach? 
BUD CAULEY:   Craig Shankland. 

Q.   So traditionally Sony is a place where a lot of rookies come to lean on veterans; do you have anybody that's showing the ropes to you a little bit out here? 
BUD CAULEY:   A little bit.   I've become friends with Jason Bohn, another Alabama guy and he's been helpful for me in giving me some advice as far as ways to travel and different things to do.   So he's been really helpful for me. 

Q.   Do you play a practice round with him? 
BUD CAULEY:   No, actually I played with some Auburn guys yesterday.   I played with Jason Dufner and Will Claxton.

Q.   How did that work?
BUD CAULEY:   The conversation was pretty colorful. 
JOHN BUSH:   Speaking of, talk about your impressions of the game and probably enjoyed a couple of years ago when you were on campus when they won the championship.
BUD CAULEY:   Actually three years ago when we won, I was in Australia.   So I have a knack for being far away when they play these games.   Maybe that's a good thing.   If we get in the game another time, I might go to, I don't know, India or something, just get as far away as I can; I think I might be bad luck.

Q.   Where did you watch it?
BUD CAULEY:   I watched it in our hotel.   There's I Tropics restaurant in our Hilton hotel and Jason Bohn and I went down and watched the game. 

Q.   Were you loud?
BUD CAULEY:   I think everyone knew we were Alabama fans.

Q.   Were there any other alba many fans there?
BUD CAULEY:   No, we converted a couple people by the end of the game.

Q.   Were there any LSU fans? 
BUD CAULEY:   There were a couple.   They got pretty quiet. 

Q.   Obviously your team is good enough to win, and they have dominated so much defensively against a team that has a good offense?
BUD CAULEY:   They do have a good offense but at the same time, I don't think they have played‑‑ or other than the time they played us, I think our defense is one of a kind in the SEC and in all college football. 
I'm not surprised by anything Nick Saban or Kirby Smart do.
JOHN BUSH:   We appreciate your time and play well this week.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT