AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 19, 2017
Bud Cauley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Bud, two great rounds.  Want to talk about your round today but, before we do, I'm still trying the figure out how the putt stayed out on 18.  
 Everybody in the studio feels the same way.  Gravity should have put that down for birdie.   
BUD CAULEY: I thought it was a good roll in there for me.  I hit a good putt.  That's all you can ask for.   
 Q.  What happened around 12, something clicked?  You've been playing well in general but around 12 today it got hot and heated up coming in.  
BUD CAULEY: I felt like I was playing well all day.  I gave myself some good looks.  I missed a couple but I had some good par saves also.   
I was playing solid and then, yeah, I hit a few fairways, kind of got myself in good position and was able to make a couple birdies.   
 Q.  Before we let you go, 36 to go, right in this golf tournament exactly where you like to be.  More of the same or something we work on, something needs to get better?  
BUD CAULEY: Go out there and try to do the same thing.  I've been playing well to start with the tee shots, get in it play and go from there.   
 Q.  I am here with Bud Cauley.  3-under yesterday, 3-under again today but was it different out there for you?  
BUD CAULEY: Played a little tougher today.  Later in the day the course was a little firmer, wind was a little bit up.  Not too different.   
 Q.  And you know your finish today was a little bit better but what about that chip-in on 14, is that what you meant to do?  
BUD CAULEY: I was aiming for it.  It was nice.  I've been working on my chipping a lot.  It let me down a little bit the past few weeks.  I've been working on that and nice to see one go in.   
 Q.  The last few weeks you've had three Top-10s.  What did you find, what's been working for you in the past few starts?  
BUD CAULEY: I'm playing really solid.  Kind of starting at Harbour Town, I started to drive the ball a little bit better which has been a big help.  I've been able to keep doing that.  I drove it pretty well the last couple days.  I'll try to keep moving.   
 Q.  What's going to separate you from the back?  
BUD CAULEY: I hope hit every fairway and every green and roll some putts in.  I've been playing really solid.  Clean it up around the greens have been a big help these past couples days.  I can just keep playing solid and be tidy around the greens, should have a good chance.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT