UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 13, 2006
David Harris
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q.  Can you talk about the offense? 
 DAVID HARRIS:  They are explosive.  They can put points on the board in hurry.  They have outstanding speed on the outside and Troy Smith, he's their leader and does what their coach asks them to do. 

 Q.  One of the more threatening offenses? 
 DAVID HARRIS:  I'd say that, yeah. 

 Q.  There's been a lot of talk about -- inaudible? 
 DAVID HARRIS:  We haven't made as many big plays.  Quarterback has to keep the ball in the front of the defense.  We do that, good things happen. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 DAVID HARRIS:  Of course, 1 and 2, Ohio State/Michigan, never happened before in the history of the rivalry, and best rivalry in college sports. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 DAVID HARRIS:  Not really so far because I'm part of it.  I'll probably get a sense of it after the game is over with. 

 Q.  Are you disappointed -- inaudible? 
 DAVID HARRIS:  Not at all.  Just do what I'm asked to do by my coaches and help the team. 

 Q.  How different is this week for you guys as players, because it is different? 
 DAVID HARRIS:  Probably going it be a little bit harder, a little bit more time studying film and going over their personnel.  Biggest game of the season, so everything is on the line. 

 Q.  Are you coached at all to deal with the shenanigans that go on like a couple of years ago, the dog in the bag? 
 DAVID HARRIS:  Just go out and do your thing.  Can't really worry about outside influences.  Just go out and play your game. 

 Q.  What makes Troy Smith so tough to handle? 
 DAVID HARRIS:  First of all, he's a great leader for their offense.  He has a great arm.  He has good mobility in the pocket.  He's their guy. 

 Q.  How well will you know him by the time of the game? 
 DAVID HARRIS:  I should know him pretty good. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 DAVID HARRIS:  A lot, a lot, that's all I can say. 

 Q.  Do you remember last year's game and the games you played before, is that motivation for you? 
 DAVID HARRIS:  Last year has no significance or importance to this year's game.  Just got to go out and look at what you're doing this year. 

 Q.  What have you guys not been able to do -- inaudible? 
 DAVID HARRIS:  Last couple of years, he's had good games against us and we've got to go out and try to limit that this year. 

 Q.  How much pressure do you guys feel not only to beat Ohio State, but with the National Championship on the line? 
 DAVID HARRIS:  Anytime you're in a game like, this there's pressure.  Just got to go out, have a good week of practice and do our best to execute come Saturday. 

 Q.  Defensively -- 
 DAVID HARRIS:  We won't know until Saturday. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 DAVID HARRIS:  You could say that.  He's the heart and soul of their offense.  When he's on fire, they are tough to stop. 

 Q.  Is it harder to be in the pocket, be better in the pocket now than he was before when he ran -- 
 DAVID HARRIS:  You could say that.  He does a great job of staying in the pocket and keeping his eyes on the field.  He's not as apt to scramble out of the pocket and make plays.  He tries to give the ball to his playmakers. 

 Q.  Is it easier to defend that way? 
 DAVID HARRIS:  I wouldn't say it's easier.  Just got to be ready for it. 

 Q.  Does it get in your head a little bit defensively? 
 DAVID HARRIS:  No. 

 Q.  (What's it like playing at Ohio Stadium?) 
 DAVID HARRIS:  That was great, you walk in the stadium, all you see is red, it's loud.  You've got to go out and you can't let it bother you. 

 Q.  How hard is it to have -- inaudible? 
 DAVID HARRIS:  He's a great athlete.  He's a senior, he's from Ohio and he knows what this game means, so I'm pretty sure he's going to go out and play like it. 

 Q.  (What would it mean to go undefeated?) 
 DAVID HARRIS:  It would be a great thing.  I've never gone undefeated in my life.  This year we have a good chance of doing that.  It's a big game, big game of the season, last game. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 DAVID HARRIS:  No, I haven't really thought about it. 

 Q.  Can you talk about your defensive line, how much they have improved over last year and what that does for you as a linebacker? 
 DAVID HARRIS:  They have done a heck of a job this year putting pressure on the quarterback, putting penetration in the backfield.  Those guys up front, they make it easy for the linebacker to run around and make plays.  Can't thank them enough. 

 Q.  How about Ron English, what impact has he had as coordinator? 
 DAVID HARRIS:  Great motivator.  We just try to go out and execute. 

 Q.  Do you think these teams are similar? 
 DAVID HARRIS:  I don't know.  I haven't really studied film yet. 

 Q.  How much have you paid attention to Ohio State all year long? 
 DAVID HARRIS:  We take one game at a time.  We just look at our next opponent.  I'm not going to sit here and say that we've focused on Ohio State since week one or nothing.  We just took one game at a time, and we're in the position that we're in right now. 

 Q.  Is this how you wanted it to be with this game? 
 DAVID HARRIS:  Oh, yeah, everything is on the line, Big 10 championship, chance to go to Arizona for the National Championship.  Can't ask for more than that. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT