ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 17, 2019
Søren Kjeldsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. The golf course has not been particularly kind to you in the past.  What is it about the opening two days that's been the difference?
SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, I think I picked up a driver early in the week, and I've been hitting it pretty straight, and I get a little bit more run, as well, so I get a little bit further up from the tee.  This is a long golf course for me because I can't cut across corners like a lot of the big boys can.  So yeah, it's not been easy for me in the past.
Q. I know you've been practising a lot since the World Cup.  Is it pleasing to you now that you're starting to see the fruits of that labour?
SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, of course.  Obviously all of us, we always try to look for that little edge.  The season is a long season.  It's a marathon, and you want to get into it in a nice way.  You know, last year and a lot of years before that, my first couple rounds have always been horrendous, so obviously I was trying to find a solution so that didn't happen this year.
Q. When we talk about momentum for a season, how nice would it be to get off to a good start in a Rolex Series event and get plenty of points on the board?
SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, of course it would, but that said, for me it's very important mentally to get into a nice frame of mind, work on my game and work on my patience and just overall be in a good frame of mind, because you know, the golf sort of fluctuates a lot.  You have great weeks and you have not-so-good weeks, and that's all part of the deal.  Mentally you've got to be prepared for that, and that's really what I've been working on a lot.
Q. How have you found the golf course so far over the first two days?
SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, it's amazing.  It's a great golf course.  It really is.  If you play well, you can shoot good scores because the greens are perfect, and funnily enough, with the new rules and that, it doesn't make as big a difference to play in the afternoon now because the greens are better because you can obviously repair a lot of stuff.  I've found that quite interesting that you've got six-footers late on the second day and they're still very pure.
I know these greens are always great, but still, no matter how good a green, they always get a little chewed up late in the second day.
Q. How do you feel when you're coming to play on a very long golf course like this?
SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, I mean, my thing is always like I haven't played a golf hole that I can't birdie.  Still haven't played one of those.  So you know, I can't spend my life looking at other people saying, wow, I'd like to hit it like him.  I've got to maximise what I've got, and so far, so good.
Q. That was my next question.  Do you try and hit it a bit further or do you just basically stick to what you know best?
SØREN KJELDSEN: No, I think you've got to play to your strength.  Like the 9th hole today, I didn't really see the tee shot there, so I hit 3-wood, which meant that I had a 5-iron second shot.  Nick, my caddie, he sort of was like, why do you want to hit 3-wood.  But I just couldn't see the driver.  Things like that.  If you don't see it, you've got to be comfortable with it, and sometimes if people go like what's he doing here -- if you play golf, you know what it's like.  Sometimes you get shots that you're not comfortable over, and you've got to find a way.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT