BELGIAN KNOCKOUT
May 18, 2018
Søren Kjeldsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great 6-under par for the two rounds.  You must be chuffed to bits?  
SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, I am.  It has not been a great season for me so far.  It was a pleasant surprise.  Made some putts today, which was key.   
 Q.  Do you find this is a golf course that suits your eye?  
SØREN KJELDSEN: Absolutely.  I love it.  It's old-style.  Every hole asks you to hit one particular shot.  You can't just bomb it anywhere.  I really like that.  It's really old-fashioned stuff.   
 Q.  We know you like the wind.  It was swirling around?  
SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, it's tricky.  Some of the holes where you feel it's supposed to be downwind and it's playing into and stuff like that, and you know, I made the Pro-Am on Wednesday.  Got a little bit of feel for that.  Seems to be the same holes where it changes a little bit but it's fun.  It keeps you on your toes.   
 Q.  Are you looking forward to the Knockout Stage?  
SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, I think this is a really good format.  I'm really looking forward to the weekend.  I think it will be exciting.  Nine holes, it will be a bit quicker, and anybody who gets into tomorrow feel that they have got a decent chance.   
 Q.  And you were a birthday boy yesterday; is that right?  
SØREN KJELDSEN: Yes.   
 Q.  Tell us your age?  
SØREN KJELDSEN: No, I'm getting to the stage where you try to keep it quiet.  No, I was 43 yesterday.   
 Q.  Challenging today?  
SØREN KJELDSEN: It wasn't easy.  The course gets really firm in the afternoon.  The greens are seriously firm and not that easy to putt on, either.   
The wind is swirling around a little bit on some of the holes, so it's a really good test.  You really need to be golfing your ball.   
 Q.  What pleased you most about your play today?  
SØREN KJELDSEN: My putting, no question.  I've been putting poorly all year.  Yesterday I felt I hit the hole a lot without making anything, and then got off to quite a bad start with the putter today, as well, and then suddenly when I made one, just then they just started going in and it was lovely.  I was rolling it nicely.  It came nicely out, the putter, and I felt quite comfortable in the end.   
 Q.  Is it quite nice to play a different golf course compared with the long bomber's courses that you seem to play week-in, week-out these days?  
SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, I think one of the strength of The European Tour is that we play a nice variety of golf courses.  I think the bombers, it's nice that they have an advantage on some courses, because it is an advantage to hit it long, if you hit it fairly straight, as well.  I don't mind that.   
But the variety is the key I think.  I played in America last year and I felt there was less variety over there, which made it just slightly more boring, and I think that's one of the strengths of this tour.   
 Q.  You're going to be one of the seeds into the knock out stage.  Are you aware of the advantage of that?  
SØREN KJELDSEN: It's nine holes, so I wouldn't look into that too much.  Obviously the better you play, the better chance you've got.  So even though the format obviously is very different to 72-hole stroke play, you know, if you shoot good scores, the odds of you going through are getting bigger.   
 Q.  It's the first time it's been played on European soil.  Are you a fan?  
SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, this format I really like.  I have been a little bit skeptical of some of the other formats but this one, you know, you get the top 64 after two days, I think that's very fair, and then you speed it up a little bit by playing nine holes, but it's medal play, I like that, and it will be really interesting but I like this format.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT