THE PRESIDENTS CUP
September 23, 2005
Tom Lafountain
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Talk about the day following Jim Furyk and ended up being more of a help to Tiger Woods it looked like.
TOM LaFOUNTAIN:  Yeah, Jimmy started out and was feeling halfway decent.  He wasn't comfortable all day, but he fought through it.  But Tiger started to have a little trouble after a couple shots that came out of the rough, upper back, middle back area started to tighten up on him quite a bit.  A couple holes went on, he started having more restriction and what we thought we would do was ice it to take a preventative measure to control the muscle contraction so we would not get anymore aggressive and it would not bother him anymore.  The ice applications, frequent ice applications and some soft tissue work seemed to help him quite a bit.
Q.  How much pain were the two of them in, could you sense?
TOM LaFOUNTAIN:  Today I know Jimmy wasn't comfortable.  I know he said he felt a heck of a lot better than yesterday, I know it still bothered him, but we had stretched him up and done some work earlier and so I think he was uncomfortable but he his swing was okay and was the key.  If he was walking and moving around, he had a little trouble but his swing basically was better than yesterday, comfort wise.

Tiger, it started to bite him enough where it was bothering him and he wanted    he called us and he needed some help.  But once we got some ice applications and did some soft tissue work, it seemed to real release some of the tension.  And actually the break helped us a lot, because it gave us a chance to get about 15 minutes on him where we could restore some of his rib mobility and he seemed to do better afterwards.
Q.  And you worked on both guys during the break?
TOM LaFOUNTAIN:  Yeah, Jimmy needed a little less work but Tiger needed a little more assertive with the procedures with him, but it seemed to work out good for both of them.

Jimmy, we had him on hot packs and doing some things we were helping him with this morning.  And Tiger we had to do pretty much a full treatment.  But it gave us a chance to do everything that we needed to do.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT