INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
January 15, 2017
James Blackmon Jr.
OG Anunoby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Indiana - 76, Rutgers - 57
Q. What did you guys do to force turnovers?
JAMES BLACKMON JR.: Really that's what we focus on because that's when we're at best when we are able to get stops and run out because we have so many athletes on this team.  That's our main focus and I feel like we did that tonight.
Q. It seems like you were having a lot of success driving the basket.
JAMES BLACKMON JR.: It was just one of those nights, I just had to help the team in a different way and not focus on my shots.
Q. Curtis and Devonte, off the bench today, they kind of gave you a lift in energy.  How important were they in the first half?
JAMES BLACKMON JR.: They bring energy, both of them, and when they're locked into the game plan and they come out like that, like they did today, it really gives us a lift.
Q. OG, your ability to come back when you start off slow, how important was that?
OG ANUNOBY: Just playing harder on defense and making sure we get stops.
Q. James, what got you guys going after that slow start?
JAMES BLACKMON JR.: Really in the first half, at the end of the half, I feel like, is when we let down and let them get their rhythm, let them get comfortable.  So we wanted to come out in the first four minutes and then stop that.  And I feel like we carried that out through the whole game.
Q. OG, seven steals.  You and Coach talked pregame on his radio show about wanting to force more turnovers.  I guess is that something you felt like taking on personally?
OG ANUNOBY: Yeah, we all did.  We all tried to jump the gaps and be aggressive with our hands.
Q. 14 steals as a team, by far your season high this year.  Was it something that you saw that you could do?
OG ANUNOBY: It was just really following the coach's game plan and getting in the gaps.  When guys are driving on us we like to help our teammates out, and I feel like we did a great job of that tonight.
Q. One turnover until late in the first half.  Do you feel like the team is maturing in taking care of the ball?
JAMES BLACKMON JR.: Yes, definitely, that's what we work at every day, making simple plays.  And that's when simple plays turn into big plays for us.
Q. James, I noticed it's one game, but maybe do you feel it's a catalyst, a turnaround?
JAMES BLACKMON JR.: Yeah, I feel like any game can do that.  So tonight's win definitely can be that game to get us going.
Q. OG, how important now that you guys put wins together again?  You haven't been able to do since Christmas?
OG ANUNOBY: How important.  It's important.  It's what we want to do.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT