CHINA OPEN
October 3, 2019
Bianca Andreescu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
B. ANDREESCU/J. Brady   
6-1, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Talk through the match today. What do you think was the key to getting it done in two?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I think it was a solid match overall from my part. My goal was to take control right from the start and make sure I'm consistent with my serve. Last couple matches I wasn't.   
But I'm really happy with how my serve held up today, and also my return, especially in the first set. It's nice having a match like this, especially after what happened yesterday. I think I was more positive, as well. I think that helped a lot.   
 Q.  Now that you have a winning streak of 17, the longest since Azarenka or something three or four years ago, you're up 6-1, 5-3, step up to the line to serve out the match, having that bank of wins under your belt, is that what you feel? Nerves can set in when you see the finish line. What is yourself talk like that?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: It's hard not to focus on the end of the match or winning because you're one game away. Obviously those thoughts are going to go through your mind, which they always do for me.   
But I just try my best to stay in the present moment and keep doing what I'm doing, especially when it's going so well. Sometimes I'll start changing it up because I'm feeling confident, but I've learnt that doesn't always work.   
When I am playing well, I just try to keep it as simple as possible because I have so many shots that I can hit. Sometimes that can go against me. I try to just keep doing what I'm doing and try to serve it out.   
If it's on her serve, she could maybe have a really good service game, and it could be 5-All. At that point the match could go either way.   
 Q.  You're on a great streak right now. You're playing Osaka next. Do you think you can keep this momentum going? Are you feeling more nervous than normal?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I'm feeling more excited than usual. I wanted to play her ever since she did so well at the US Open and Australian Open. I'm really happy that I get to play her tomorrow because I think it's going to be a lot of fun.   
 Q.  When you're talking about clarity earlier, keeping it simple, having the arsenal of shots, would you say that's one of the bigger changes for you this season in terms of having that clarity compared to before on the challenger circuit? How much has that improved this year and is it why you're having the season you're having?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I think it's improved tremendously, especially from only a year ago. That was a thing I was struggling with the most because sometimes I can get bored out there so I want to try different things to change it up.   
Like I said, I've learnt that it doesn't always go my way when I do try different things, especially when I'm up. But sometimes when I'm down, I think it's a good tactic for me to start trying to do new things to see if it throws off my opponent even more.   
I think that's what I've been doing a lot, especially when I've been down. I've been realizing what her weaknesses were and what I was doing well that day. I was trying to just focus on my strengths and implement that. That usually consists of me changing the rhythm even more.   
Yeah, I think it definitely improved. I think it shows. I don't look lost out there (smiling).   
 Q.  Naomi, at what point did you first become aware of her? What do you make of her as a person in terms of how well do you know her?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I don't know her that well. I mean, we're friendly. I know she's a pretty funny person. She can be a little awkward sometimes, a little quirky. I think she's a really nice girl.   
I noticed her a lot after she won Indian Wells, of course, then US Open. Especially the final against Serena.   
I really admired her, I still do. She's doing incredible, especially at such a young age, as well. It's nice to play another player that's close to my age. We're kind of like the NextGen. I'm really excited. I know it's not going to be easy at all. I think it's going to be fun. Yeah, I'm really looking forward to it.   
 Q.  Where do you think your game matches up well against Naomi?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I know she's an aggressive player. She has similar traits to Serena, as well. Big serve, big groundstrokes. She moves pretty well, too. If I just go out there and play my game, like always, I think that's worked a lot this year against many of the players.   
I think one of my great - what's the word - I guess advantage or strengths, I don't know, when I do step on the court, I'm good at figuring out how to play certain players, especially after studying them the night before. But it's different when you step on the court. I think that's a really good strength to have, is to figure out different things when you're actually out there.   
We'll see. I mean, the goal is just to play my game and stay positive.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT