CHINA OPEN
October 2, 2019
Bianca Andreescu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
B. ANDREESCU/E. Mertens   
6-3, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Compared to the match you played against her in New York, did you adjust anything? Did you solve the issues this time?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Well, I didn't go in three sets this time (smiling). I think I was extra focused in the tiebreaker because of that reason.   
But, yeah, I went over the match with my coach the other night. We actually watched the match together, some parts of it. That's the first time I did that with my coach actually. I think I'm going to continue doing that. It's nice to get both of our perspectives on the match, not just right after playing, but a couple weeks after. I think it's very refreshing.   
I think I implemented some things well today. At the same time she also changed some things, which was expected. But, yeah, I think was just a mental battle in the end, a mental battle with myself because I felt like I was very negative, especially in the second set.   
Like I said in my post match, I'm just really happy with my never-giving-up attitude.   
 Q.  Was that the first time you sat down with your coach in your professional career and watched a match, broken it down? A lot of players say when they're preparing for a match, I'll let my coach do it. Why don't more of you watch it yourself?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I always watch it on my own. He usually does his own thing as well. The next morning we'll talk about it.   
Last night we sat together and watched it. I think that's a really effective tool because we can both talk about the match, like I said, not only after playing, but a couple weeks after. I think you see different things.   
I usually don't like watching myself play, but I think it's very useful.   
 Q.  Why don't you like watching yourself play?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I think it's like that with anyone. A lot of people don't like hearing themselves in a video. Oh, man, when I was screaming c'mons, I was cringing so hard, yeah.   
I think it's a very useful tool so I think I have to get used to it.   
 Q.  Why do you think you were getting so negative with yourself? You finished the first set very well. What was hanging over your head?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I expect a lot from myself. When there are a lot of positive things happening, even if there are a lot of positive things happening, I think for me, I overlook all the positive. When one negative thing happens, it triggers something in me. I know I can do better.   
Sometimes I'll win a point, I'll still be pissed because I knew I could have won that point better. Even after this match, I was pretty down on myself. I have to realize that tennis isn't a perfect sport. You're going to have scrappy matches.   
I also have to give credit to Elise. She played really, really well as well. So, yeah, it is what it is.   
 Q.  It's always very difficult to deal with the pressure and expectation after winning your first Grand Slam. Looks like you are doing really well. How did you manage to do that?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I just try to go into every tournament like anything else. I feel like US Open didn't even happen, which I think is a good thing. I'm starting off fresh. I think taking a couple weeks off after US Open really helped, as well. Take a break mentally and physically to regroup for this tournament.   
Yeah, I'm glad I'm here. It's a new challenge, new circumstances, different environment. But I'm always up for the challenge, so I'm happy to be here.   
 Q.  Some players struggle with the transition into the Asian swing. How do you comment on your first Asian swing?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I think it's going pretty well. I came here a week before, so I got used to the environment and the courts. I really enjoy playing on these courts. I think it really suits my game style. I have time to set up the points.   
Yeah, it's good. It's been good.   
 Q.  You're saying you cringed when you watched yourself shouting c'mon. Are you going to shout something different from now on or say less?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: It's a habit now, just saying c'mon, let's go, allez. Sometimes I don't even want to say it, but it just comes out of me.   
I think it pumps me up, though.   
 Q.  Are you saying it in English and French or both?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Everything.   
 Q.  Chinese?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Ooh, I don't know about that. Don't test me now. Someone told me what it was, but I forgot. I like to keep it fun (smiling).   
 Q.  You got Jen Brady next. You know each other, probably played in the ITFs. What do you anticipate about that match? How well do you know her?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Yeah, I played her two or three times already. Nothing this year, though. I'm not sure. That was a while ago.   
I think we both improved a lot. I think it's going to be a good match. She has a big serve, a big forehand, and she moves quite well.   
I just want to go out there, put on my best performance, be more positive, and hopefully I can get the win.   
 Q.  I love your mom so much.  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: My mom?   
 Q.  Yes.  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I love her, too (laughter).   
 Q.  Her expression is so cool. Is she here in Beijing?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: No, she's not. You guys won't get that experience this week, sorry. She'll be there in Australia. She had some things to do at home.   
 Q.  She won't be in Shenzhen WTA Finals?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Oh, yes, wait. I forgot about that. How could I forget about that? Yeah, she's coming there.   
 Q.  All the stuff that you were doing after the US Open, I presume some of it might have felt surreal, all the media stuff, TV. Is there any moment that stood out to you that you stepped outside yourself, Am I really sitting on this couch doing these interviews?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Definitely the rally that was put on by the city of Mississauga. I remember actually tearing up from hearing all these people say such nice things about me in front of so many people. Being recognized in Canada, having all of their support just means so much. I think that's when everything started sinking in a little bit.   
Yeah, I was so nervous giving that speech, too. But I didn't trip in those heels, and my speech was pretty decent (smiling). I was pleased with that.   
But definitely that moment stood out.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT