ROGERS CUP
August 9, 2019
Bianca Andreescu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








B. ANDREESCU/K. Pliskova
6-0, 2-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Just can you describe where do you think this knack of refusing to give in during matches comes from?  And given that you're now 6-0 against top 10 opponents, what is it about your game that can still beat these best players in the world despite all the difficulties?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: It comes from deep within.  I've been practicing a lot on trying to figure out what to do in these kind of circumstances.
And like I said, I've had many opportunities to try different things, and I finally found something that clicked for me.
And when I step out on the court, I'm fearless.  I show no mercy no matter who I play, and I think that's showing a lot.
Q. Would you consider yourself a perfectionist on and off the court?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Yes, definitely.  Yeah, when something doesn't go my way, I get really upset at myself.  But I'm trying very hard to deal with that in the best way possible because I know not everything is going to go my way, especially in sports.
So I just try my best to focus on the things that I can control and go from there.
Q. What was happening during the medical time-out?  How certain were you that you were going to continue, and what was everything feeling like at that point?  What were you suffering?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: So I got really low on this one ball she hit, and I felt my groin a little bit.  I felt it this morning too.  It was a bit sore, but I think it got a little bit worse during the match.
And we just went inside to tape it.  She didn't want to do it on the court, so we just went inside.
But, yeah, I took the longest ice bath ever just know.  I'll still shivering.  So hopefully that helps.
Q. With the injury and everything, the medical time-out, how did you keep your composure?  You stayed in there and came out a winner.
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Yeah, it was disappointing, but things like this happen.  And it's hard not to focus on that when it's hurting every point.
But at that moment when things happen like that, I just try to focus on the tactics I'm supposed to perform and forget about the pain, but it's not easy.
Q. You had a long layoff because of the shoulder injury and now you have played just a ton of tennis this week, nearly nine hours.  How hard is that on you to have the layoff and then play four consecutive three-set matches?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: It's not easy, that's for sure.
But right now I'm just really happy with how my mind and my body is holding up, and my team too.  I'm so sorry, guys, for putting you through all of that, and even myself.
I know that I'm not playing my best tennis right now.  That's why I think I'm getting upset during the matches.  But I think now that I'm playing -- that I already played nine hours, I'm starting to get my rhythm back, yeah.
Q. Two matches in a row now you have played two of the top servers on tour.  Seemed like you had a pretty good bead on Karolina's serve today.  When you're stepping in to return, are there any tells that you're looking for or is it kind of like you're letting your instinct take over?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: It's really hard to tell where she's going to serve, but I try my best to anticipate as much as I can.
On the first serve, I just tell myself, catch and stroke, and just put the ball back in the court as effective as I can.  And on the second serve, I try to put pressure.
Q. Did you come to this tournament as a little girl?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I did.
Q. So what would that little girl think of what you have been able to produce this week here in Toronto?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: If I was that little girl, I wouldn't have believed her that -- if I said that I would be in a semifinals here today.
So this really means a lot to me.  I've been putting in a lot of work, and I've dedicated myself to this sport 100%, and it's definitely paying off.
Q. What do you think of the young girls, the Canadian girls, the local girls that are watching what you're doing this week?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Being able to accomplish what I've accomplished and knowing that a lot of these young athletes are watching is something really special.
I try my best to show a good example because I know it has a lot of effect on them.  I know it had a lot of effect on me watching all of these tennis players doing so well.
So I'm just trying my best to be the best that I can.
Q. What are your thoughts on your next opponent, Sofia Kenin, who you have played already twice this year.  She one the first.  You made adjustments and won the second.  Also another young player coming along really well for her country.  What do you expect specifically from her game in the semis?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Yeah, it's great to see the young generation doing well on the WTA tour.
Yeah, I played her twice this year already, so I know what to expect from her.  She is a fighter.  She gets to a lot of balls.
So I'm going to go out there and just give my best performance.
And I'm going to "Just Do It."  (Laughing.)
Q. Can you just give an explanation for that dramatic swing from the first to the second set?  I mean, you were so dominant in the first and then the second were you already being bothered by the groin?  And do you remember who you came and saw the first time you came to the Rogers Cup?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Yeah, the momentum definitely switched from the first set to the second set, but that's what the best players do.  They try to look at that they're doing wrong and what they're doing well.  And she definitely picked up her game in the second set.
But then in the third set, I told myself, Go big or go home.  Literally, go home.  My home is, like, two minutes from here.  (Laughing.)
So I just went out there, and I never gave up because it's never over till it's over.
Q. And do you remember the first person you saw here?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: The one that I remember clearly was when Belinda won against Serena.  I remember telling myself, I want to be like that.  Because that was an amazing accomplishment.  I think she was only like 18 or 19.
So hopefully this year is my year.  (Smiling.)
Q. I was wondering why didn't you call the coach?  You never call the coach to come and advise you.
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Yeah, I want to prove to myself that I don't need a coach on the court.  Because in the Grand Slams, you don't have that opportunity.  So I guess I'm just getting ready for that.
I mean, we speak before matches and after matches, and I think that's all I need right now.  I mean, it's going decently well, so I'm just going to keep it like that.
Q. You have beaten a bunch of top players in a row now.  Do you feel like you're getting a little bit of a mental advantage that they're unsettled when they go on court against you?  And what's the initiation process been like for you in the locker room?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Well, I know when I play younger players it's never easier to play them, obviously.  But now that I'm making a name for myself, they're starting to know how I play and all of that.
But right now, I have nothing to lose, really.  I just go out there and play my best tennis.
And we're all friendly in the locker room.  We say hi, how are you, stuff like that.  I mean, nothing too intense.  But, yeah, good vibes all around.
Q. Is there an aura in the locker room?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: For me?  I don't know.  We're all kind of in our own world, especially when the tournament starts, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT