ROGERS CUP
August 7, 2019
Bianca Andreescu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








B. ANDREESCU/D. Kasatkina
5-7, 6-2, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Did some of the aftermath of last night's three sets that you played, did that catch up to you at some point in today's match and at what point did it hit you?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Yeah, I think so.  Yesterday wasn't an easy match, and I had a very short recovery time, but that's just how it is sometimes.
And I tried my best to get as much treatment as I can and as much sleep.  I prepared myself well before the match, but, yeah, it did catch up to me, especially in the third set a little bit.
Q. You talked yesterday about how you like to disrupt your opponent's rhythm, and I feel like Daria plays much the same way with her variety and change of pace and the height of her ball.  Did you feel like maybe you got to know what it feels like for opponents to play against your?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Yeah, that's funny.  I was talking to my coach after the match.  I told him, Now I know how people feel when they play me.  (Laughing.)
Yeah, she likes to change the rhythm, and that's what I've been working on the most because I know players don't like that.  And, yeah, we basically played each other at our own game today, and it wasn't easy.
Q. In terms of physically how things are going, we saw you with the thigh wrapped up for the first two sets and rotating the shoulder at different points in the match.  How concerned were you during the match about those things, and an hour or so afterwards how are things feeling?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: The shoulder is fine.  I just do that to loosen it up.  It's kind of a habit, I guess.
The groin is more of a prevention thing.  I did feel it a little bit during my match against Genie.  She hits so hard and so flat, I was basically squatting the whole match.  So that didn't come as a surprise that today was a little bit sore.
But during my match was okay.  Really, I was just pretty tired.  I'm not going to lie.  I did work a lot on the physical aspect of things, but playing a match is a totally different thing.  There's a lot more on the line and there's more emotions, which definitely contributes to soreness and fatigue.
Q. What do you expect from your next opponent?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: She's a very good player.  I don't expect anything easy.  So I'm just going to go out there, try to enjoy myself, and give it all.
Q. You have never met previously; correct?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Never.  Never.  But I have watched her many times.
Q. A lot of three-setters this year and a lot of them you've been behind in them.  What do you think you do well when you're playing from behind?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: In those moments, I -- I just let loose, really.  Because I know when I do that, I play my best tennis.  It's when I just stay relaxed and I go for my shots.  And that's what I did towards the end, and I think that's what helped me win today.
Because I felt that she was holding back a lot, and I was just on top of everything.
Q. Is that what you felt kind of when you were down 5-3 and then the match was on the line there and you were serving to stay in?  I know the crowd kind of got behind you as that game started.  What was that moment like?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Yeah, definitely the crowd helped.  They helped me push myself even more just knowing that the crowd is behind you.
And, yeah, at 5-3, I think I lost four games in a row.  I was really, really pissed.  And I think I just took all that anger and just put it in my shots.  That's why I think my shots were more effective.
Q. Now a couple matches into the tournament, where do you feel like your level is at and what are you proud of most on court?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I'm really glad with how everything is turning out.  It's nice to get back into the rhythm of things.
I really can't complain.  I've been off for seven weeks and being able to win these tough matches after that period off means so much.  So that's, I think, one of the most things I'm proud of right now.
Q. Are you aware that 50 years ago the last Canadian to win this championship was Faye Urban?  I don't know if you met her or heard of her.
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I've heard of her, of course.
Q. Any comments on if it's a little bit of pressure to know that it's the 50th anniversary year?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: It's the what?
Q. 50 years since she last won.
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Oh, 50 years this year?
Q. 1969.
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Wow, I didn't know that.  I didn't know that it was 50 years, but I knew that she won this tournament.  It's just nice to see Canadians being able to win in Canada.
But right now, I'm just going to take it match after match, and I think it's going to be big if a Canadian can win it, so that's definitely my goal.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT