ROGERS CUP
August 6, 2019
Bianca Andreescu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








B. ANDREESCU/E. Bouchard
4-6, 6-1, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How did it feel to win so close to Mississauga, your home?  How did that feel?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: One of the best feelings.  Really, to be able to play in front of my home crowd is always a special feeling.  I've had many memories here.
I played two years ago on that court, so I had a bit of experience of what to expect, but today was crazier than usual because I was playing a Canadian too.
I'm just really happy with how I played today.
Q. How was the occasion and how much -- both of you were talking a lot before about how you wanted to ignore said occasion and just focus on it being a tennis match, but how did you soak it in as human Bianca and also play a tennis match as you're meant to do as a professional?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Yeah, every time I step on the court, I try not to focus on who is on the other side.  Sometimes it's not too easy.  There's always that pressure, but I think I managed that really well.
It was a really good match.  She put on a really good fight, and I'm glad that everyone enjoyed the match.
Q. Did you enjoy it?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I did.  I really did.  Playing in front of my home crowd, I mean, what else could I ask for?
Q. How was your confidence during the match?  Obviously coming off the injuries and like in the pretournament you mentioned you had to do some tweaks to your serve, biomechanical stuff.  So how were you feeling?  You picked up in the second set obviously.
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Yeah, in the first set I was a bit nervous.  I'm not going to lie.  But I shaked those nerves, and I tried to refocus for the second set.
And I stuck to the right tactics.  I made sure to put pressure right from the start of the point, and I think that's what I really did today.
I tried to use my serve as an advantage, as well, and tried to put as many returns as possible inside the court.
But other than that, I'm feeling really good, even with my shoulder.  So hopefully I can keep up the rest of the tournament and the rest of the reason too.
Q. Just in that first set, how much of that was nerves and how much of it was rust?  Because there was quite a few unforced errors coming off of you.  And then at what point in the match did you start to feel things become clear, because it seemed like you finished on a really high note.
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Yeah, that wasn't really a surprise to me.  It's my first tournament back after a couple weeks, but I'm really glad with how I managed it.  I tried to just focus on what I was doing well.  Because I know in the first set I was missing a lot.
But, yeah, I don't really know.  I think things just switched on for me in the second set.  I started going for my shots more and that really helped.
Q. It seemed like you were hitting a lot of moonballs in this match.
BIANCA ANDREESCU: (Laughing.)
Q. Surprisingly effective.
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I'm not 12.
Q. I'm just wondering if there's any particular reason that you decided to employ that tactic?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: It's not the first time I do that.  I really like to change the rhythm.  And I think it threw her off today, and it throws off a lot of opponents, a lot of my opponents.
So, yeah, but I don't necessarily call it a moonball.  I would say more of a deep, effective high ball.  Sounds better.  (Laughing.)
Q. Would you consider yourself a role model at 19 years old?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Oh, well, I don't know how to answer this.  I feel like I am, yes, because I've been getting a lot of messages from younger athletes just saying how much of an inspiration I am to them, which has been one of my goals for the longest time, and I'm slowly starting to do that.  And me stepping on the court really -- I try to just give my best and try to show a really good example to the younger generation.
Because they really look up to certain players, and I guess one of those players is me, so yeah.
Q. Can you speak to what this week is like at home?  Are you staying at home, enjoying family, home-cooked meals?  What is it like for you this week?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Yeah, that's exactly it.  My parents can't always travel with me, so I'm just taking this opportunity to be with them as much as possible.
There's no place like home, really, so I'm glad I could stay at my own place.  And it's really close, like, 15 minutes, so I'm able to sleep in.
Q. Genie just talked about how you guys were messaging each other when you found out that you were going to play each other, and then of course your reaction the other day of shock when you saw the reaction.  Can you talk about just the bond that you two have?  Genie could be in her own bubble and be, oh, this young upstart is coming up and not be as warm to the younger players.  But she's really a personality that is really gregarious and friendly towards a lot of players, and particularly young players.  So can you talk about the bond that you had and how you embraced each other at match point and what she has shown for Canadian tennis as an example for you?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Yeah, I definitely looked up to her growing up because she was the only woman tennis player that was on the tour at the time.
But, yeah, I replied to her story, I think it was when Nick was playing the semifinals of Citi Open.  I'm like, Hey, LOL I'm watching this too.  What are the chances we play each other?  Blah, blah, blah.  And then Felix and Vasek, how crazy is that?
And then we just had a little conversation going, and she's like, Yeah, it's pretty crazy, but let's put on a show.  Let's just give it all we got.
Because tennis is a pretty serious sport, so it's just nice to let loose a little bit like that.
Q. First match since the French Open.  Just how did the body hold up and how are you feeling physically, the shoulder and the rest?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I would say 12 out of 10 really.  I haven't felt this strong in a while.  I had a really good, I guess, a mini preseason where I was able to focus a lot on my physique and just focus on other aspects of my game.  And not only that, but as a person too.  I think I really improved a lot of things.
So I'm really grateful for that break, and I think all that preparation is paying off.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT