ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2019
Bianca Andreescu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








B. ANDREESCU/M. Bouzkova
5-7, 6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What did you tell yourself at 4-All in the third set?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Put the ball in the court.  Because I was missing a lot and she was getting every ball back.  So my main objective was to just construct the point and get the right opportunities to go for my shots.
Q. How did you feel physically yesterday and today?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I was actually feeling really well.  I had a good preseason technically.  It was, like, my second preseason.  I've been working a lot on my physique, and I felt good out there.
Q. It's not very often that you have a match called, at least not at this level.  I'm not sure about your past.  And you have to go home and think about it, especially in this situation where maybe there's some nerves and searching for your first win at Roland Garros.  Can you take us through a little bit about your process in the overnight?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Well, I tried not to really focus on the match.  Really, like, once I step off the court, I just want to do my thing, recover well, seek treatment.
My friend is here so she helped me take my mind off of the match so I can refocus the next day, which is this morning.  And I kept my same routines today.
And I got a sense of how she played, so I had time to process that.  And I spoke to my coach about better tactics to play today against her, and I think it really helped.
Q. You obviously didn't have your A-game really either day.  And when you miss a forehand like her set point in the first set, what do you say to yourself?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I'm not going to lie.  This wasn't one of my best matches at all.  I was getting pretty mad at myself.
But, I mean, it's my first tournament back after an injury, so I tried to stay as calm as possible.  And I'm just really proud of how I fought through the match with the tennis I had.
Q. You made a really quick transition from upcoming player to a kind of favorite.  How did it change your mindset that you are often now the better-ranked player and are supposed to win?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Well, I guess there's outside expectations and pressure from the audience, from the fans and all of that.
But, I mean, every time I step on the court, I really try not to focus on that.  I know I say that a lot.  And it's not easy, but I think I've been doing really well with that.
And even coming into Roland Garros, I try not to focus on how I'm No. 23 in the world.  I just go out there and play my tennis.
Q. Tough opponent in the next round.  How do you feel about that coming match?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Kenin; right?  I played her twice this year already, once in Acapulco, and Miami.  So I have a really good sense of how she plays, not on clay, though.  I don't think I've ever played her on clay, but I know it's going to be a tough match.
She gets to a lot of balls as well.  She's a fighter.  So I'm going to do the same thing.  I'm going to put a lot of balls back in the court, play my game, and fight till the end.
Q. You play with a lot of variety and not a lot of other players do.  Where does that come from for you when a lot of players are taught to just, you know, attack and hit flat?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Well, I was like that ever since I was young.  I would always change the rhythm.  I would never hit more than two shots the same.  And I guess that transitioned through my junior career, and I saw that it was helping me win matches because not many players played like that.
So I just kept doing that and kept improving it, and it's obviously paying off even at this level.  So I just want to keep doing my thing, and I think I can do big things with my game style.
Q. I did a quick stat check and it seems like you're having a lot of success in the third sets.  I think it's 11 out of 14 and maybe five or six in a row.  Not completely sure.  But do you consider yourself really strong in that situation and, if so, what makes you a good player in those third sets?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Well, when it comes to the third set, you have to put everything behind you, even if you win or lose a second set.  You just have to -- well, this is what I do.  I just try to focus like it's the start of the match again.  I try to put everything behind me.  And I just try to see what I did well in the first and second set and try to -- basically, whatever I did well, to just continue doing that in the third set, and really to never give up and just to stay very strong mentally.
Q. How did the shoulder hold up last night and then again this morning compared to what you thought, and how about the rest of your body after two months off in terms of aches and pains and all that?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I was a little bit sore today.  I'm not surprised because it's my first match in six weeks.  All the nerves are kicking in again.
But I got treatment and I'm feeling really well, actually, considering.  Yeah, shoulder, it's really good and I'm really pleased.  Just got to keep getting treatment and I'll be good.
Q. Following up on Stephanie's question, it looks like a good decision to have come back today, but what were the pros and cons to you of coming back on clay when you're about to go to another surface and you've been injured?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I don't really understand.  So coming on clay after my success on hard?
Q. Well, coming back for one event on clay after being off.
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Oh, okay.
Q. And then knowing you're going to have to switch surfaces again.
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Okay.  Yeah, I didn't get any warmup tournament before this, but I got a lot of training on clay.  And clay is one of my favorite surfaces, so I'm really glad I was able to play at least one tournament, especially the Grand Slam.  It is one of my favorite tournaments, so I'm really pleased.
And then are you talking about the grass afterwards?
Q. (Off microphone.)
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I mean, I don't know what else to say.
Q. How do you feel about playing with skeletons on your top?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Good question.  Nike really has done something different this year.  I mean, maybe they're running out of ideas, but I think it's something different.  And I can't complain.  I actually really like it.
Q. You spent a fair bit of time at the Nadal academy, I think, in the buildup to this.  Is there anybody in particular you were hitting with there?  Any of the players that were popping in?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: No.  I hit a lot with the hitting partner that was with me there and some of the juniors that were there.
No pros were there because they were playing Rome and Madrid.  I was stuck training.  (Smiling.)
Q. Lots has been made about a lot of the women players playing and practicing with the men.  Have you had a chance to do that at all?  Would you like to do that?  Do you think that would benefit you in any way?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: The men players?  Like, the ATP players?
Q. Yeah.  Just during practices at Grand Slams, I know a few players have been playing.  Like Sloane Stephens has been playing and Kyrgios have been playing.  Would you benefit from that?  Would you like to do that, or have you done that?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: No, I haven't done that, but I try to play with a variety.  Because the guy ball isn't the same as a girl ball, so I try to have a good mix in there.
But I think practicing with the guys gets you to be more physically engaged because their ball is way, I guess, heavier than the girl's ball.
But, no, I didn't really have a chance, but I would like to.
Q. Since you've been through so much this season, getting your first win here, does that mean anything to you?  Is that something you celebrate?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Yeah, it's my first main draw Grand Slam here at RG, so it's definitely something to celebrate.  I've dreamt of this moment for a long time, and hopefully I can just continue winning here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT