US OPEN
August 29, 2019
Bianca Andreescu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
B. ANDREESCU/K. Flipkens   
6-3, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  A tight second set. How happy are you with the win? What did you do to get over the finish line today?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Yeah, Flipkens is a tricky opponent to play. She doesn't give you any rhythm. I'm just really happy with how I managed to deal with what she gave me and with my composure out there.   
 Q.  What did you make of the atmosphere out there?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I loved it. I loved it. Yeah, all I can say is that it's really nice to see Canadians here in New York supporting other Canadians.   
 Q.  (Question about the wrap.)  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I don't know what you guys think we're going to say. It's either something hurts or we're just preventing something from happening. It's one or the other.   
 Q.  Never both?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Well, it can be both (smiling).   
 Q.  A lot of the younger players like you and Coco can be very comfortable and representing a change from some of the previous generations. What do you think the reason is you guys are so much more comfortable at net?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I can't really comment on other players, but I think it's because the game is evolving more and more, and I guess we like to finish points as quickly as possible. Well, that's one reason.   
 Q.  I was wondering, your service game today looked pretty solid. What are your thoughts on it and how comfortable did you feel out there?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I was feeling really good serving today. My goal was to have a high percentage of first serves because I think I win a lot of the points with my first serves so I try my best to focus on that, and it really worked today.   
 Q.  You're still at the beginning of your career, as quite a few of the other young ladies in your age group. Who do you see as potential rivals?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Everyone's playing really well right now. Are you talking about the NextGen?   
 Q.  Your age group, yeah.  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I have watched all of them play, and they're very good. They have been performing really well at this high level. But I think everyone that's coming up right now I think has a good potential to do really well.   
 Q.  Either Caroline or Danielle Collins next, hopefully on a bigger court for next round. Your thoughts on those opponents and what makes them difficult to beat?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Yeah, it would be nice to play on a bigger court here in New York.   
I have played Caroline before, so I kind of know what to expect. Danielle, I have watched her play many times. I'm for sure going to watch the match tonight and then re-evaluate with my coach tomorrow.   
 Q.  With Flipkens being a comfortable net player, did that change your strategy in the match today?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I would say not really. I don't usually play opponents -- well, I don't know what I'm saying. There aren't many girls out there that like to come to the net as much as she does, so I tried my best to handle that as best as I could. I think I did a really good job with that today. I tried to make her play as much as I can.   
 Q.  Your serve, Flipkens talked about how you mixed it up and kept her on her heels. Was that your strategy, mixing it up, spread it out into the body or down the T?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Every match I try to change it up. There is not a specific serve that I use against players. I just try to pick my targets and hope that it goes in.   
 Q.  When you see Simona struggling like this, there's a chance you could play her somewhere down the line. Does it give you something to think about?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: To play her?   
 Q.  The fact she's struggling a little bit. If you had to play her sometime down the line, would it make you think maybe she's a bit vulnerable?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: No, because every day is different with any player. You don't know what's going to go well that day and what won't. But she's an incredible fighter. That's why she's been No. 1 in the world, Grand Slam champion. She knows how to handle things like that.   
 Q.  Did you see her save match points?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I saw a couple, yeah. It's a crazy match. Sadly I couldn't watch it, but it's okay.   
 Q.  (Question about being in the top 10.)  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: With this win? I became top 10?   
 Q.  You're supposed to be, right.  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: What?   
 Q.  With your last win, actually.  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: You're kidding me. Really? Close? Wow, no, I don't really -- okay. Give me a sec. Wow.   
No, I don't usually check these things. I like to just focus on my game, but that's -- wow. That's all I can say right now. Am I getting red? A little bit?   
 Q.  Feeling flushed?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: A little bit, yeah.   
 Q.  You played Wozniacki in Auckland. How do you remember that match?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I would say that was kind of like my breakthrough tournament, match, too because she was the first-ever player I beat that was in the top 10 before.   
I kind of know what to expect if I play her. I know that she's an incredible fighter. She runs every ball down, and I know that it's not going to be easy. I'm just going to go out there and play my game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT