US OPEN
August 27, 2019
Bianca Andreescu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
B. ANDREESCU/K. Volynets   
6-2, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  (Question about the match.)  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: You think so?   
 Q.  You sort of turned it on.  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Well, it's my first round, first match of the tournament. Maybe I was a little bit rusty at the beginning. I'm also playing someone younger than me, so that's not the best scenario. I'm usually the "young one." But it's nice to see these up-and-coming players play on big stages like this.   
 Q.  What did you make of the atmosphere out there? Quite packed for that court.  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Yeah, I loved it. These Canadians are wilding. They're coming everywhere. It's really nice to see all of the Canadians cheering me on in different cities. It's really nice.   
 Q.  Can you just talk through the experience of getting your first main-draw win here, coming in with all the pressure and thoughts and things like that? How do you feel you handled it? Was it weird stepping out on that court today?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I don't think it was weird. It was actually nice, because last year I was playing qualifying here, so I felt fresh physically and mentally.   
No, I was feeling good. Katie, my opponent, was playing really well. She was getting to a lot of balls and she's an incredible fighter. That's what I told her after the match. I'm sure it's going to get her places.   
 Q.  You looked uncomfortable at times today. Things were going fairly well. I was wondering what you attributed that to? Physically, I mean, even at times.  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Well, there were long rallies. I was a little bit nervous coming into the match, too. So I think maybe that kind of showed. But I'm usually pretty emotional when I'm on the court. That's just who I am.   
 Q.  So many players talk about the role of belief in their success. How has your belief in yourself maybe changed from that year from when you were a qualifier last year?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I think it skyrocketed. I have been doing really well this year, and I think if you believe in yourself then I think you can do big things. I think that's where I'm at right now.   
 Q.  You mentioned Katie's game and her sense of fight. Could you just take a moment and talk a little bit more about her and what are your thoughts on her possible future?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I think she has a very bright future. If she works hard and she keeps improving her game, I think she can be very dangerous to a lot of the players. She moves really well. She doesn't show any negative emotion, which is very impressive.   
And, yeah, I think she can do very big things.   
 Q.  Ever heard of a better name than Volynets?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Volynets? Oh, yeah, I never even, like, put 2 and 2 together. Yeah, that's crazy. She has a very nice name. Very ironic.   
 Q.  The wrap on your knee and patches on your thigh, what's that all about?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: It's nothing serious. The knee, I was feeling it a little bit during my practices, but it's nothing serious. And the patches are, like, these little bites I got from I don't know where. So I'm just covering them up, because they don't look too nice.   
 Q.  Bug bites?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Yeah, kind of.   
 Q.  Flipkens, you haven't played her before.  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I think that's going to be a fun match. She likes to change the rhythm like I do. I don't think it's going to be easy. She's very strong mentally, too. I'm looking forward to that. Going to study her before the match, obviously.   
 Q.  There are a lot of expectations, of course. A lot of people think you can win this tournament. Is it any different when you arrive in a big tournament like this and people have high expectations? Do you approach it differently?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: No. I just step on the court and I give my best with what I have that day. For me, that's all that matters.   
Obviously I want to win, and it's nice to see that people think I can win this tournament. So I think that also gives me confidence, too.   
 Q.  What do you think about having the slam format of having a day on, day off? Some people really, really like that?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Oh, it's wonderful.   
 Q.  Perfect for you?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I love it. I had that experience at Indian Wells. I had a lot of tough matches, so I think that the day in between really helps with recovery.   
 Q.  Have you gotten to explore the city in the last couple of days? And if you have had an opportunity to take any trips on the subway?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I actually just followed SubwayCreatures on Instagram yesterday. One of my drivers told me to follow it, because we were talking about the subway, right? I saw a lot of crazy things happening there (smiling).   
Hopefully I could actually get a chance to see it with my own eyes. I don't know how that's going to go, but I think it's going to be fun.   
Other than that, no, I didn't really get a chance to explore the city. I was too busy practicing, getting treatment, all of that. I really wanted to focus on the tournament. But maybe tonight I'll go down and walk around maybe, do some shopping. Who knows?   
 Q.  I was curious, with all the "Oh, Canadas," and "Come on, Biancas" and cheering for you, does that push you in your matches knowing you have the crowd support? Looked like somebody said something to you in the second set. You reacted. It was hard to hear from the other side. Curious to hear what that was.  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Well, people were saying a lot of things. I wasn't really focusing on that. I think she said "Stay calm" or something. Yeah, I try my best to stay calm, but that's just who I am. I just try to bounce back as soon as I can after I get mad at myself.   
But, yeah, I think it's really nice to have the crowd support, especially playing an American player. So, yeah, and I think it gives me more motivation to do better in my matches.   
 Q.  Felix/Denis?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: These draws are rigged (smiling). That's what I said in my press conference earlier this week. But that's just how it goes. I think it's going to be a popcorn match. I'll definitely go and watch that. It can go either way.   
 Q.  You like to play lots of different types of shots. In a match like today, do you ever think of aiming for longer rallies, easing into it a little bit more?  
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I think that's what I was doing today. I don't think I was changing the rhythm as much as I usually do, because she gets to so many balls and I wanted to make sure I hit the right ball at the right time so I didn't want to complicate myself. Yeah, but every time I step on the court I play my game, which is to change the rhythm. But I just try to choose the right moments, too.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT