MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 21, 2019
Bianca Andreescu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








B. ANDREESCU/I. Begu
4-6, 7-6, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. First I have to ask if you finished the Amy Schumer special last night and how you prepared for today's match.
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I did.  Yeah, it was really good.  I always enjoy watching her.  She's really funny.
Q. How tough was it waiting out the rain delays?  How did you prepare for today?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Yeah, you never know what the day brings.  I just tried to stay relaxed, and, yeah, today I was ready.  I didn't have any problems with the rain delay, because like I said, you never know what the day brings, so I try to just focus on the things I can control.
Today I prepared the same way like I did yesterday and like I do every match, but it wasn't easy.  She's a great fighter.  I started a bit slow in the first and second set, and then I called my coach.  He obviously helped me, like he always does, and I fought as hard as I could.  I'm really proud of myself with how I dealt with everything.
Q. What do you think caused the slow start?  Was there any fatigue on your end the last couple of days or even today?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Well, it's a new tournament, new atmosphere, new environment, different court.  I guess that took a bit of getting used to.
Maybe I needed to almost lose to wake up (smiling).  That's obviously what happened today.  I'm really grateful how I managed.
Q. That was quite a comeback.  Saved a match point, too.  How much would you say that's about the confidence that you obviously are playing with now that let you turn that around?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Yeah, I think it's that.  I think confidence is a lot.  If you have trust in your game and in your training, then a lot of good things can happen.  I think at that moment that's exactly what happened.
I try to stay in the present moment.  I try to play every point like it's the first point of the match.  I tried to stay as calm as I could, tried to pump myself up.
In those moments, I try to go for my shots as much as possible, because I think that's when I play my best tennis.
Q. Do you think it helps at all, being in those situations?  Does it help you grow a little bit being down match point?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: For sure.  The harder the battle, the sweeter the victory.  I have gained a lot of experience from today, but hopefully I don't have to actually be down match point to win matches.
But that's the game.  You never know what your opponent will bring that day.
Q. If you win this, you would be only the fourth woman to win Indian Wells and Miami back to back.  It's some pretty lofty company with you.  Graf, Clijsters, and Azarenka are the other three to have done that.  What would that mean to you?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: It would mean everything to me.  Winning Indian Wells was incredible, but, I mean, if I win back to back, that would be even more incredible.
If I keep making history, then I just keep accomplishing my goals, because that's one thing that I have always wanted to do.  So if I have my name alongside those amazing players, it would definitely mean a lot.
But I'm just trying to focus match after match, and then hopefully that will be the case.
Q. You were down 1-3 also I think in the last set, right, at...
BIANCA ANDREESCU: The last set?
Q. Sorry.  At Indian Wells.  At Indian Wells you were down to the same person in that match in your first round.
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I was actually down 5-1 in the first set, set point.  I lost a set.  So that comeback didn't really matter.
I really don't remember.  I really don't remember.  I don't think so.  I think I was up in that third set.
Q. I'll read the notes again.
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Okay.
Q. After you played at Indian Wells you said Stadium 2 was a big court.  Now you come here and play on this little court after being in Stadium 1.  How weird is this massive change?  What were your thoughts on that little court?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Well, it's not really weird, because I've played on many little courts before.  Played on courts in Japan in the middle of nowhere where no one is watching.  It's not different than other matches I have played.
Q. I'm just curious, what was your goal coming into this year in terms of ranking or tournaments?  What was it that you wanted to accomplish at the start of the year?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: My goal was to get into the main draw of the French Open, which I have accomplished already.  And to always improve as a player and as a person with every match I play.  And to crack into the top 50 by the end of the year.
Q. Have Sylvain and you purposely kind of oriented your game?  It's very different than most of the other women.  You have a lot more variety.  It's not just, you know, pummeling the opponent and stuff.  Is that something you guys talk about and have purposely worked on?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Yeah, I have always played like that, even when I was little, since I was 11.  I was always changing the rhythm.
I found that it was really working for me, so ever since then I was just improving it during practice, and it's definitely showing that a lot of players are having trouble with receiving all the junk, I guess I should call it, junk.  Junk in my trunk, but effective junk (smiling).
Q. How did you handle the transition between Indian Wells and Miami?  Because it was obviously a quick turnaround.  And on Tuesday it rained all day, so you had no chance of trying out the courts.  Yesterday you were supposed to play but you didn't.  Did you manage to get enough time on the courts here in Miami to try them out?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Not really.  I hit 30 minutes before my -- well, supposed to play on Wednesday, so I hit 30 minutes before my match.  Then 30 minutes today.  So I guess just an hour.
Well, now I know that it's pretty difficult to come into a new tournament after winning a really big tournament, because everyone has so many expectations.  But I try not to focus on that, even though it's really difficult.  I think that's what happened today a bit in the first set, and I just tried to focus on the things I can control.  Because like I said in Indian Wells, you never know what next week brings.  So I'm just really glad I pulled through today.
Q. This is the first year for everyone here, all the players.  I know it's your first Miami Open.  What's your impression of the whole setup here?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Yeah, I have never played at the one in Key Biscayne, but this one is definitely really nice.  The Stadium Court is huge.  I'm really enjoying the atmosphere.
The weather isn't too bad.  I thought it would be more humid, but it's been good.  The food is great.  I can't complain.  Everything is pretty nice.
Q. As an 18-year-old, other than tennis, is there anything other than tennis?  What do you enjoy doing?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I enjoy a lot of things.  I enjoy going to basketball games, concerts, hanging with my friends, watching movies, a lot of Netflix, trying different restaurants, eating different types of foods.  Not that interesting.
Q. (Question off microphone.)
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Yeah, NBA.
Q. Can you say what you're watching on Netflix, what your favorite shows are?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I really love standup comedy.  I watched Amy Schumer's special last night.  I think her name is Ashleigh Cummings.  I actually watched it during my ice bath.  And I'm also watching Grey's Anatomy and Shameless.
Q. A lot of talk now with the Rogers Cup going to be in your hometown in Toronto in August, that you have an opportunity of making another sense of history.  We haven't had a Canadian win in the Rogers Cup, formerly called the Canadian Open, since 1969.  If you could do it, you'll be the first Canadian woman in 50 years.  I just want to know if that's been in your mindset.
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Yeah, definitely.  That's basically my second home.  I have played on those courts since I was 10 years old, so meaning -- I mean, winning that would mean so much to me.
But I'm not trying to focus on that right now.  I just want to focus on this tournament.
Q. Being a few days removed now from Indian Wells, does it feel any less surreal?  Has it sunk in more for you?  How do you look back on the last couple of days?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: It still hasn't really soaked in, but now I'm getting more attention with the media, and a lot more people are asking for my autograph, watching my practices, watching my matches.  So that's definitely changed.  I guess it's slowly starting to sink in.
Q. Up next you play Sofia Kenin, who is obviously a tough opponent for you.  What makes her tough to beat? What makes her difficult on court?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: Well, she gets to a lot of balls.  She rarely misses.  She fights really hard.
I played her in Acapulco.  I lost 7-5 in the third, so I know it's not going to be an easy match, but I'm looking forward to it.
Q. Is the fact that she's the last player who beat you, does it have any sort of bearings, any sort of importance in preparing the match?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: No.  That day actually I didn't play my best tennis, so hopefully tomorrow, if I'm on a roll, then I think I can do really well, end up winning the match, hopefully.
Q. There were times on the court today you were kind of keeling over almost.  Seemed like you were tired or this match took a lot out of you.  How are you going to recuperate for tomorrow?
BIANCA ANDREESCU: I'm going to get as much fluid in my body as possible.  I already did an ice bath.  Did a good cooldown.  See the physio, watch some Netflix tonight, eat a good dinner, and I'll be ready for tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT