MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 28, 2021
Bianca Andreescu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  B. ANDREESCU/A. Anisimova
 7-6, 6-7, 6-4
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. There were so many different plot twists out there tonight in your match with Amanda.  What got you through a match like this tonight and kept you focused and determined?
 BIANCA ANDREESCU:   Wanting to win the tournament.  That's for one.  And just proving to myself that I can get through these tough matches like I did before in the past.  And I did.  So I'm super happy about that.
 Q. Was this the type of match that you wish you could have been playing to a packed house to have a big crowd to feed off of?  Although I'm sure you were appreciative of those that were there tonight?
 BIANCA ANDREESCU:   Yeah, for sure.  The atmosphere would have been different.  But it was nice to have what we could have now.  I heard some fans of mine, some fans of Amanda's, so you got a little bit of that rivalry even between the fans going on, which was nice.
 It gave an extra spark in the match, but for sure if it's like a Grand Slam not during a pandemic it would be another story.  It would be really cool.
 Q. You play Muguruza tomorrow night, less than 24 hours' recovery.  How do you feel you are going to be able to prepare for that match?
 BIANCA ANDREESCU:   I'm going to do my best with treatment, best with food, best with sleep, all that stuff.  I have been here before.  I have played tough matches like this.  Had to play the next day.
 So I kind of know what to expect.  I have to be on my A game tomorrow because I know Muguruza is very tough to play.
 Q. I saw tonight you had your family in the stands, your mom, your dad, your dog.  How did that feel?
 BIANCA ANDREESCU:   It was awesome.  This is their first tournament watching me play live since the US Open in 2019, so it's incredible.
 Q. Going out there with the mask on, with the headphones on, you looked super down to business.  Wondering what's in your headphones these days that's getting you in the zone and how you're feeling out there in general as you're getting more matches under your belt.  How's the game feeling compared to what it could be?
 BIANCA ANDREESCU:   Yeah, I'm always keeping some hype-up song before my matches.  I listened to "No Effort" by Tee Grizzley going on to this match.  But, you know, I like a lot of things.  I like a lot of artists, a lot of music, but I stick with hip hop before my matches.
 My game, I know that it can be better, but I'm trying to find ways to push through on my off days, and I think I'm doing that well.  I think that's what makes a really good player, and I'm trying to be that really good player like I was in 2019.  I did that today, and I just want to fight and give it my all and then the rest will come.
 Q. I don't want to bring up 2019 like people are always comparing, but I guess do you feel like you're getting back to that level where you can stop to think about how you're doing things and just start to free-flow and play and do what you want out there?
 BIANCA ANDREESCU:   Exactly.  And this match really proved that.  I felt very good mentally before the match, and then on the court I felt really good.
 It's hard playing a player that she's super erratic.  Like she just slaps every ball, but she slaps it very well.  I don't want to say that in a bad way.  But she's a really good player.
 It was tough.  Like I was getting to a lot of balls I thought I couldn't even get to.  But that just shows that all the preparation that I'm putting in is really paying off.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT