SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 2, 2007
Mickie DeMoss
Carly Ormerod
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:  Now joined by Kentucky head coach Mickie DeMoss, Carly Ormerod and Jennifer Humphrey.   
 Coach, if you could make a comment.   
 COACH DeMOSS:  I tell you, I thought Georgia played extremely well tonight, got the ball inside.  Inside game was very tough to start the game.  Defensively, you know, they shut down a lot of our scorers.  We didn't have our big scorers step up for us.  Couldn't get a good luck on the inside with Elliott.  Mahoney couldn't get going.  I thought their defense, you know, took a lot of things away from us.   
 We just, the first half, shot the ball miserably.  Our defense was solid until about the last five minutes of the first half, then broke down a little bit.   
 But they played extremely well.  You know, we just didn't have a good night.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Coach DeMoss or the players.   
  
  Q.  What do you think this means for your post-season chances?  Will you take an NIT bid if it's offered?   
 COACH DeMOSS:  Right now we still have our fingers crossed for the NCAA.  I think, you know, historically the NCAA's taken at least six teams from the SEC.  If they take six teams, I would think we would have to be the sixth team they would take.   
 Still have our fingers crossed for that.  We'll just cross that bridge when we come to it if we don't get in.   
  
  Q.  What were they doing to kind of keep the ball out of Jennifer's hands and Elliott's hands specifically in the first half?   
 COACH DeMOSS:  Just I thought they were bodying us pretty good on the inside.  We were able to get it in there; just couldn't finish.  They were helping in, pinching in some from the corners, helping with the guards.  Our guards couldn't knock shots down when they were open.   
 They just did a really good job of shutting down our inside game, being very physical with us, not letting us get good looks at the basket, not letting us get to the block.   
  
  Q.  Carly, can you talk about that first few minutes of the game?  You were 0-14 to start.  Did that get in your head at some point?   
 CARLY ORMEROD:  I wouldn't say so, you know.  We had a couple games where we started off a little sluggish.  But we've always bounced back and been right in the game.   
 I think it's hard, though, when you shoot 16% for an entire half.  It was frustrating out there because no one could get their shots, none of them were falling.  It was a frustrating game offensively.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT