SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 4, 2006
Mickie DeMoss
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 COACH DeMOSS:  It wasn't the way we wanted to finish out the SEC tournament, but, I tell you, LSU played a heck of a game tonight.  They're a heck of a team. 
 I thought that, you know, we competed, we struggled to get good looks at the basket.  You know, I thought with the fouls on the inside, Sylvia's fouls really just made it tough for our post people in there.  Just couldn't get a lot of good looks early.  I thought that just kind of set the tone.  We never could get anything going.  Seimone Augustus just proved why she was player of the year, I guess.  She hit some unbelievable shots. 
 But still proud of the year that we've had, proud to be in the semifinals of the SEC tournament. 

 Q.  Coach, could you talk about LSU's ability to deflect your passes?  Seems as though everything you tried, they were right there on the spot. 
 COACH MICKIE DeMOSS:  You're right.  They're just so athletic.  They're athletic, they're long, they're quick.  If our passes weren't precision, I mean, just right on time, they seemed to get their hands on it.  You know, even our shots, we would get an initial look at the basket, and they're just quick.  They can get from one spot to the next very quickly. 
 I tell you, and everybody talks about their offense, how potent their offense is, but I tell you, their defense is really, really good, really good. 
 Q.  Did you see that on film?  Were you thinking maybe you could exploit something?  Seemed like they probably played their better defensive game than you've seen. 
 COACH MICKIE DeMOSS:  Yeah, I thought they played really well tonight.  They got out-pressured in the passing lanes a little bit more than what we've seen on tape.  They played very inspired tonight. 
 For whatever reason, we just did not attack the way that we should have.  You know, I have to give a lot of credit to LSU.  They're one of the best teams in the country. 
 Q.  When they went on that run, could you see maybe your kids starting to back off a little bit, play differently? 
 COACH MICKIE DeMOSS:  There were a couple shots I thought that we let them alter.  But, you know, we cut it to 10.  I thought Stassia came in and really gave us a lift offensively.  We were able to cut it to 10.  But they're just a team of runs.  Same thing happened to us in Lexington.  We were able to cut the lead.  They call a timeout, they just go on a tear.  That's kind of what happened. 
 We got it to 10.  I thought we didn't let it deflate us totally.  But it just wears on you, particularly when you've played the night before.  Didn't have a lot of time to prepare, didn't have a lot of time to rest.  But I don't think it totally deflated us.  We just had to keep fighting. 
 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 UNIDENTIFIED PLAYER:  Sylvia is a very excellent ball player.  She's very athletic.  She gets the rim, she gets a lot of rebounds.  I got to give Sylvia a lot of respect for that.  Our game plan was to push her off the block and put a body on her all night, which I thought we did a pretty good job of that most of the night.  She's very physical.  It was pretty much a battle between me and her all night. 
 She's very physical.  You know, I got to give her her props for being such a great athlete. 
 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 COACH MICKIE DeMOSS:  You know, we talked in the locker room.  I mean, you know, it's obvious what it takes to be the No. 1, 2, whatever they've been ranked throughout the year, 1 through 4, I guess, most of the year.  You know, we learned from this. 
 We just focus on the positive.  We learn from it.  We move on.  You know, we're excited, unless something bizarre happens, get into the NCAA tournament, which is a first for several years for Kentucky. 
 But we learned from it.  We've got to practice at a great tempo every day, make strong cuts, speed cuts, move the ball quicker.  We'll go back and break the tape down and learn from it, get better from it. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT