U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2014
Ronnie Black
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Nice round today.RONNIE BLACK: Little disappointed in the finish, yeah.Q. You talk about your start?RONNIE BLACK: I played very well.  I hit one really bad shot on No. 3 and wound up making a 30-footer for par.  That kind of got me going.  Then made about another 25-footer on the next hole for birdie that had about an 8-foot break, and hit it really close on the next hole and hit it really close on the next hole. I made another 20-footer for par on 7.  I played the par-5s very poorly today.  Made a 20-footer for par and made two bogies.  So, that was kind of the downfall of my round, I think.Q. Did you bogey both par-5s on the back?RONNIE BLACK: I did.Q. At that point --RONNIE BLACK: I hit good drives on both them.  It was very -- couple bad, I think, swings and bad thinking and not good golf.Q. How did you prepare for this since you hadn't really played since --RONNIE BLACK: Well, I got a new course that I'm working at, Canoa Ranch in Green Valley, Arizona.  I just at the end of the day, go out and hit 5, 6 balls on every hole, played 9, 10 holes and I actually my game is actually very good except for not having competed enough in the last several months.  Other than that, I'm in pretty good shape.  I putted very well today.Q. Drive it well, too.  Were you happy with that?RONNIE BLACK: I've been a little shaky with the tee ball.  Hit some bad ones and got away with a couple of them.  For the most part I've been driving it very, very well at home and I didn't that well today, really.Q. How did you see the course change as it dried out?RONNIE BLACK: The wind was a completely different direction.  That was a very difficult change.  It didn't dry out that much.  You know, it's still from where the practice rounds were on Monday, Tuesday, it was really running out and today it was -- it's dried out from what it was yesterday but it's still softer than what it was.Q. If it stays like this, it gets hotter, do you think the heat will play a role?RONNIE BLACK: Yes, it will.  The heat will play a role and I think the fairways will firm up.  The greens will probably firm up and be a lot more difficult golf course after it firms up.Q. What else about your round today really stood out?RONNIE BLACK: Well, what stood out is my putting.  I putted very nicely and the ones that didn't go in, I hit right on the button.  I missed short putts on 17 and on 18.  I misread both of them.  I hit them both perfectly.  I was very, very excited about the way my putter, the way I hit my putter.Q. You say you shouldn't be surprised by what you did.  Are you in some ways, you hadn't competed --RONNIE BLACK: No, I've been playing very well.  I'm not surprised.  Usually in coming here I was driving the ball very well and usually when I drive it well, then I play well.  Even though I didn't hit it that well with my drive today, I was pretty confident that I could play well here. It's a good golf course for me.  I played well here in 1988 and finished my last 9 holes kind of like I did that 9 holes.  Kind of shot myself in the foot there, too.  But, you know, I like the golf course.  It's a good course for me and my game is in pretty good shape.Q. Two par-5s on the back-9, made bogey on both.  Are those legitimate 3 shot par-5s?RONNIE BLACK: No.  You know, the first one is a legitimate par 5.  Because of that, I hit 3-wood off the tee thinking would it leave me short of the fairway bunker on right. I hit a beautiful shot, left to right wind, hit a draw right up the center of the fairway but I forget how much that fairway -- I only got one practice round on the back-9.  I forgot how much that fairway canters to the left and I got down there and my ball was in the rough up under the tree. I hit a beautiful tee ball.  I had to try to hook a 6 iron around the corner which I did pretty good.  I left myself another 6 iron.  That was a, very, very poor swing I made on that shot.  Left myself where I had almost no chip shot at all.  That was really maybe a mental error off the tee hitting a 3-wood. If I would have hit driver it would have gone up there and got around the corner a little better.  If I would have played the slope in the fairway I would have room to get it all the way down there and then I hit -- made a really horrible swing -- somebody in the group ahead of me hit the pin on the par 3 as I was over my shot. I was thinking that must be a really good shot.  I just lost -- part of that, not having played that much.  I lost my focus and got out of my pre-shot routine a little bit and made a horrible swing.Q. Those are important, too, aren't they, I guess that little bit of repetition in competition.RONNIE BLACK: You're right.  You're right.Q. Still a great day.RONNIE BLACK: Thank you very much


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT