CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: MIAMI VS WISCONSIN
December 27, 2017
Alex Hornibrook
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  When you look at Miami's defense, is their front kind of in comparison to Ohio State's as far as speed, aggressiveness, things like that?  
ALEX HORNIBROOK: Yeah, I think so.  They have some really talented guys up there, big.  They've got a lot of size and also athleticism, so it'll be a challenging front, and we're excited for it.   
 Q.  In a game like this against a defense like theirs, do you think winning the line of scrimmage is one of the most key things for your offense?  
ALEX HORNIBROOK: Yeah, I think every game really.  Our O-line has done a great job of controlling that line of scrimmage, and we definitely feel great with them and what they're going to be able to do this game, but yeah, I think that'll definitely be a key.   
 Q.  Sort of that old adage, whoever wants to be there the most wins, with you guys being one game away from the playoff, what would you say to people who say Wisconsin does not want to be here?  
ALEX HORNIBROOK: I've never even heard of that before.  I think every game you're playing matters just as much, whether it's the first game against a non-conference team or the championship.  If you're competitive, every single game is going to be the same for you.   
 Q.  Would you say you like the approach of the guys around you coming off of sort of a heartbreaking loss where they had everything to play for?  How have things been the last couple weeks?  
ALEX HORNIBROOK: Yeah, I've noticed the same energy.  Everybody comes in every single day and competes.  There's a genuine competitive spirit with this team, and whether it's practice, a game, whatever it is, we love competing against each other and against other people, so nothing really changes.   
 Q.  Do you think that's unique?  I know you mentioned you never heard that saying before, but do you think that's unique with a program?  
ALEX HORNIBROOK: I'm not sure.  I can't really speak for the other team.  This is really all I know.  I don't know any different.   
 Q.  When you look back at Ohio State, specifically what kind of went down in the run game, what kind of went wrong for you guys and why you weren't able to move the football the way you were the whole season?  
ALEX HORNIBROOK: I couldn't tell you exactly why.  I haven't really been thinking about that game for a while.  But I think when it comes down to it, it's just everybody doing their job, and if everybody is doing their job on the field at the same time, you'll have a good play, and if not, then you won't have a successful play, and that's probably what happened.   
 Q.  Do losses like that stick with you guys at all or you personally?  How quickly do you move on from something like that?  
ALEX HORNIBROOK: It's a game, it's football.  You're either going to win or you lose, and obviously you want to win a lot more than you lose, but that stuff is going to happen sometimes, and you learn from it as much as you can.  Sometimes you learn more from those than the victories, but it doesn't stay with you too long.   
 Q.  What sticks out to you most about Miami's defense?  
ALEX HORNIBROOK: I think they play with a lot of energy and they're a competitive group that they have a lot of athleticism to them, too, so it'll be a challenge and it'll be fun.   
 Q.  Is it safe to say one of the goals of this team is not let them break out that chain this week?  
ALEX HORNIBROOK: I think so.  I think that's a key to every game, not to turn over the ball, and to be positive in that turnover margin.  That's definitely key to every game, I think.   
 Q.  I know you've had a lot of young receivers you've worked with already this season, but anybody stand out to you in terms of names we maybe haven't heard of that can help you?  
ALEX HORNIBROOK: I think the guys I've been working with have been the ones that are playing this year, so probably in spring ball we'll see a little bit more of those guys that haven't been on the field yet, but for now it's Kendrick, it's AJ, Danny, all those guys.   
 Q.  They're bringing in four more receivers for you next year; you guys will have something like nine underclassmen, 11 scholarship receivers, which is a pretty high number.  What are your thoughts on how the coaching staff is trying to help you out and expand on the passing game since you've been here?  
ALEX HORNIBROOK: Yeah, that'll be exciting to get those guys in in the summer or January or whenever they come in, but we always have guys that come in early, and they want to compete, so I expect nothing different.   
 Q.  Do you watch incoming recruits, their film?  Do you have an idea who's coming in here, or is it something you don't pay attention to until they get here?  
ALEX HORNIBROOK: Not really.  I think it was more in high school when there was people I was going up against, people I was competing with.  I wanted to see what they were doing.  But now that I'm here, we kind of just meet everybody when they get here and sometimes hear about a big-name recruit or something like that or see a tape on Instagram or Twitter, but not too much, no.   
 Q.  Are there guys that you've heard about already?  
ALEX HORNIBROOK: Not really.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT