GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 26, 2016
Anderson Varejao
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How rare was that to play in Cleveland earlier, to come out and play the Finals, what was that experience like for you?  
ANDERSON VAREJAO: It was something that I never thought would happen last season.  To be in Cleveland for so long and the to eventually play against them in the Finals, wasn't easy.  There were a lot of emotions going through my body, going through my head.  But I think it was actually great to get it over with, because now there's no expectation this season for me to be playing Cleveland this season.   
 Q.  What went into the decision to return, and how do you see this year being different for you, having a full year with the Warriors?  
ANDERSON VAREJAO: Well, I wanted to return and this worked out well.  I'm happy to be back here and excited for this season.  And I think it's going to be a lot better for me.  I mean last year I got here and the team couldn't lose a game.  It was like on the road, winning every game.  And to me, one of those seasons it was like I just have to fit in and not try anything crazy, which I would never do.  But it was just a delicate situation.  I had to come here, I was playing right away, 10, 15 minutes.  But I'm learning with the season from the beginning, with the new additions, with the new players, it's going to be much better to know my role and know what I have to do.  Which I kind of know what it is, just play hard and play decent.   
 Q.  What can you tell us about playing for Mike Brown and what he can potentially bring to the team?  
ANDERSON VAREJAO: Mike Brown, he's -- this was my 13th season about to start.  And Mike Brown coached me eight years of my NBA career.  So Mike Brown is a very good coach.  He's a coach that knows a lot about xes and o's.  And sometimes I tell him that it's a little annoying, because he's really good at details.  You can be on one spot, and you can be an inch away, and he tells you to go back there.  I think he's a good coach is really going to help this team, he's good at it.  And I'm looking forward to working with him here at the Warriors.   
 Q.  You've been on some teams to start the season to where there were high expectations before.  How can you compare those teams that you've been a part of in the past and what you're feeling right now as far as the expectations going in?  
ANDERSON VAREJAO: I know the expectations are going to be to win the Championship.  That's what everyone is thinking about.  That's what was happening to me in Brazil when I was down, telling me you've got it, you've got it.  Nothing is guaranteed.  We know how good this team is on the paper.  And how good this team can be.  But like I say, nothing guaranteed.  I know the expectations are high and we're going to work for that.  We're going to work hard every day and try to do our best, and doing that I'm sure we can do something special.   
 Q.  Were you ever officially offered a ring with the Cavs, and what went into that situation to maybe not take that?  
ANDERSON VAREJAO: Well, they did offer a ring, but I'm not sure what's going to happen.  I really didn't put much thought into it, just focusing on this season and playing this season, and trying to win here.   
 Q.  I was wondering if you've gotten more acclimated to the Bay Area, and especially San Francisco has a lot of good restaurants, if you've tried them?  
ANDERSON VAREJAO: Well, I haven't had much time to find more restaurants.  But I tell you what, my backyard, with my grill, I do some damage.  I like to grill a lot.  And I do -- I know there are some good restaurants in the area.  I'm just getting more used to the area and finding restaurants as much as I can to eat.   
 Q.  Talk a little bit about the personality of this team, because that's the one thing that people who cover sports really enjoy about your club is that it just seems to have a very upbeat, positive vibe.  How much of that is -- do you feel responsible to keep going, because you're not going to get a chance to play as much as you like, but the guys really appreciate what you're doing mentally on the floor in practice, and what you bring to the locker room?  
ANDERSON VAREJAO: Well, we have a great group of guys here.  Everybody loves each other.  Actually I got here in February, March, and the way everyone welcomed me, it was amazing.  The way these guys received me here.  They made me feel like, in a week or so, like I was here for a whole year.  So that was amazing.  And I'm just going to keep it going, trying to -- I know I'm not going to play as much -- maybe -- whatever coach wants me to do on the floor, that's what I'm going to do.  I'll be ready for one minute, ten minutes, 20 minutes, whatever it is.  I'm pretty sure the guys are on the same page, that's what we all want to do.  And from what I've heard, they are great guys here, and we're going to have a lot of fun this year.   
 Q.  How is your back feeling right now?  How close were you -- how was the decision in terms of playing in the Olympics?  
ANDERSON VAREJAO: I'm good to start tomorrow with the team.  I'm not going to go too crazy, because I haven't done any contact yet.  But I'm feeling pretty good and ready to go.  It was tough not playing in the Olympics.  My decision was to not play because I had some -- I three opinions -- I had seen three different doctors, and they all told me the same thing.  And I decided to not play, because it would complicate things during the Olympics, and maybe end up having surgery.  Which is not the case right now anymore.  So I'm feeling pretty good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT