NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: MAGIC v CAVALIERS
May 27, 2009
Anderson Varejao
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How are you guys approaching the situation right now? Your play has progressed in the last couple of games and you had great chances to win? 
 ANDERSON VAREJAO: Well, we had a chance to win the game last night, and we ended up losing. We gotta take one game at a time. We gotta watch film today and see what we gotta do better to win the game tomorrow, and we'll go back to Atlanta and try to win that, too.

 Q. The team that's dominated teams defensively this year, how frustrating has it been that almost everything they've tried has worked?
 ANDERSON VAREJAO: You know, we did a good job on defense. And they made some tough shots. We gotta give them some credit. We gotta keep working, and I believe we'll have a chance.

 Q. Andy, what more can you do against Dwight Howard and their three wings; he's been extremely impressive in dominating? Is there any more you can do or just hope he misses?
 ANDERSON VAREJAO: We've basically tried everything. All we gotta do is keep playing hot against him, trying to take his space away, trying to be physical against him and hopefully he miss, like you said.

 Q. What's been the most frustrating thing out there for you guys? Can you talk about one thing that's been most frustrating?
 ANDERSON VAREJAO: Game 1 we had a chance to win and we lost. The same way we are down 3-1, we could be up 3-1. It's frustrating. But there's nothing we can do right now. We just need to go to the next game and take one game at a time. And winning this next game is going to be good for us.

 Q. Andy, in that overtime session, it seemed like they wanted you guys to foul there. But you had five fouls. So if you fouled, you would have fouled out. Is that one of the reasons why you didn't?
 ANDERSON VAREJAO: Yes. Yes and no. I could foul him, but I just tried to be physical. This time I believe he -- I'm not sure. It's not easy to say you should or shouldn't foul him. Like after the game you can look at sometimes this would be the best option or whatever. 
 We just need to think about the next game and take it one game at a time and try to win this next game. 

 Q. When they took that call away, did you think that was a technical?
 ANDERSON VAREJAO: I really didn't see. I wasn't on the floor. I do know he looked at me and said something. I don't know what happened. 
 It is what it is. All we gotta do is think about the next game. We need this win. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT