TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 16, 2010
D.J. Johnson
Eric Stevens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. D.J., what were some of the issues you guys had on defense today trying to slow stuff down? Talk about just facing the offense, and how you think the defense did today? 
 D.J. JOHNSON: I mean, we made mistakes, and they cost us quite a few of them. I feel like overall we fought hard, we played tough, but it's just some mistakes that really cost us and gave us some big plays that hurt us.

 Q. What was it, was it linemen, just youth or all the injuries and everything just piling up on you guys? 
 D.J. JOHNSON: Yeah, pretty much. Assignments, some people missed some assignments, didn't have some blocks. Some backers didn't do their job. Some defensive backs didn't do their job, you know. 
 Just as a group, we didn't play -- we didn't have that one accord, everybody playing and having each other's back. That's what you've got to have when you play against a good team like Oklahoma State.

 Q. You guys got off to a slow start offensively once again. What do you attribute that to? How big of a factor was that as far as the outcome of the game? 
 ERIC STEVENS: Definitely execution. We had a couple of drop passes on the first couple of drives. We can't run the ball too much on the first couple drives. Once we start running the ball and getting it going, it started opening up for us. 
 Whatever it is, we've got to find a way to get started faster.

 Q. Can you talk about Blackmon, over 200 yards receiving. You knew he was a good player coming in, but seems kind of tough to stop there in the second half? 
 D.J. JOHNSON: I feel like really I don't know if it was just the fact that he's just that dominant, but he's a smart player. He may run a curl, and we may have it covered and he'd roll back out. 
 He just plays smart quarterback and they're on one accord. You know, he'd run a post. If it was supposed to be a post, he'd break it down and cut it across the field and it was open. He just made smart plays. He's a play maker.

 Q. Talk about being 3-3 at the midway point of the season and how disappointing it is? 
 ERIC STEVENS: We definitely didn't believe we'd be 3-3 at this point. A lot of times we shot ourselves in the foot and we'd get start slow on offense. Defense doing their part, and then we'll come back and we'll get started, and defense, they start lagging around. 
 But no one expected us to be 3-3 right now. But we have to take it, learn from it, and move on to Colorado. 
 D.J. JOHNSON: Yeah, I agree exactly with what he said. From the beginning of the season we felt like we were dominant, you know. I think that the thing is that during spring camp and fall camp, we were all on one accord, jumping around and decided to play. Everybody had each other's back, and there was no defense dominated, then offense didn't do their part. We dominated as a team. 
 I felt like once we come together as a team and special teams, offense, defense, sideline, everything comes together, then that's when we really start clicking.

 Q. Is there a point on defense where you guys start to get frustrated? Third straight game where you've given up quite a few points. Is there a point in the game where you're like oh, no, not again? 
 D.J. JOHNSON: I mean, frustration -- frustrated with the fact that it was little things that led to big plays. But, overall, I felt like we could have -- we had the game plan and the scheme. We had the players to do a great job throughout all the games, but it's just some minor mistakes that really cost us more than they may have cost other teams.

 Q. Coach Tuberville mentioned that you guys had to abandon the passing game in the first half. How did you feel you guys handled that adjustment? 
 ERIC STEVENS: Well, we adjusted to it in the beginning. I think we had a pretty good game on the ground. But then we started losing the ball in the back field. I had a fumble at the end, and Batch had a fumble, I believe it was like the second or third quarter. 
 We've just got to take care of the ball when we get the opportunity. Everyone knows we're a past-first offense. So when they turn to us on the ground, we've got to capitalize and don't let the team down with turnovers and mistakes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT