KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2019
Glen Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GLEN DAY: The rough might have been a little bit longer than it is now, but you can definitely -- I hit one that went literally four inches in the rough on No. 5, sorry, par 5, and -- or 4, and I literally hit it a hundred yards straight right in the right rough and made bogey there.  And I actually hit a good -- one of my few good tee shots, just caught unsolid.  I wasn't thinking it would run through the fairway.  You know, it's one of those you can get a -- you can hit it sometimes, and hard to stop on the green because they're pretty firm.  It's just -- you can get some that you just can't really play with too much.   
 Q.  How were you approaching this week?  Obviously you -- it was announced several years back, you knew you were going to be eligible, being over 50 -- I take it that's your boy on the bag.  
GLEN DAY: That's my son Ryan, yeah.   
 Q.  So, I mean, the whole experience, having him here with you, I mean, that's just got to be awesome, despite what you score.  Obviously you want to score well.  
GLEN DAY: Obviously.  I mean, it goes without saying, being able to share this kind of stuff with my son, who's an aspiring golfer, he's going to go play for a University of Florida where I played, so that's a neat thing.  And that's awesome.   
I mean, I'm still -- when I'm out here, I'm not always thinking about -- we're having fun, don't get me wrong, at times we'll laugh about how bad I am right now, but trying to give him the bag and let me (indiscernible) the clubs and I'll carry the bag.  But it's great.  I think we'll look back on it more as I get older.   
But, I mean, it's a good learning experience for him being around these guys and watching guys practice and watching me play -- maybe not watching me play as much, but it's great to be able to share that with him.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) in general this Tour and the ability to stay highly competitive (indiscernible) most, if not every other sport, it just doesn't happen.  At what point did you start thinking about this?  
GLEN DAY: I don't know.  I mean, you don't really think about it when you're in the moment playing when you're younger.  Then when I got hurt and had a couple back surgeries, didn't play for a few years, and I'm like, well, that was next on the horizon, if I could get healthy enough and get back to playing.   
So we don't really focus -- I didn't, at least, because we're all competitive out here, but this is bonus time for us old fogeys, you know, is kind of the way I look at it, and we all want to play well.  I'm working on practicing hard because -- almost as hard as I did when I was younger.  Maybe not as long.   
But, you know, you don't lose -- none of us lose -- we're competitors, you know, and that's kind of how we're wired.  And even though we're old and the ball doesn't go as far and maybe things hurt when you get up and move around a little bit more than it used to, but you still want to go out and compete and still try to do your best against the best 50 and older guys in the world.   
 Q.  Obviously everything you went through health-wise, how much do you cherish every shot, every event you get to play?  
GLEN DAY: Probably not as much as I should because I'm just so hard on myself and I expect a lot more out of myself than what I'm doing right now.  But I should probably at this age take it a little bit easier on myself.  But like I said earlier, we're kind of wired a certain way sometimes, and maybe that's kind of helped make me what I am to a certain degree.  Whatever that is.   
 Q.  An Upstate tournament, though, being here and be able to do sort of I guess I'd say brag about Upstate New York to everybody else?  
GLEN DAY: Yeah, absolutely.  I was born here.  I didn't live here long.  We moved to Buffalo, so I spent most of my childhood in Buffalo.  But obviously my dad owned -- I own a golf course here, so I have massive ties to western New York, and a big Bills, Sabers fan and all that jazz.  So it's great to come back.  Just disappointed I didn't play better today.   
 Q.  Can you do anything about the Bills or the Sabres?  
GLEN DAY: I wish I could.  They always ask me, Are you a Bills fan and a Sabres fan, and I say yes.  It's not always easy.  But I'm a loyal fan, and I'll be there until I die.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT