BOOZ ALLEN CLASSIC
June 25, 2004
Glen Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Glen, thanks for coming by and spending a few minutes with us.  The good news, you're right back in the thick of things, but, of course, it was obviously a bad break with the delay.

Can you comment on the overall day and the delay.
GLEN DAY: Obviously I played really good.  I hit a lot of good shots.  I had a lot of good yardage where I could stand up there and make a normal swing.  I got lucky on 6, and then we get the delay, and I would have enjoyed the last three holes without a delay.

Now, that's not saying that I may have had a chance to do something great or not, but, you know, it was there.  We got the delay and came back out, and then it was just kind of like, okay, let's finish this, get a putt at it and go on.
Q.  Can you go ahead and take us through your card.

(Scorecard read.)
Q.  How close on number 7 was the bunker shot?
GLEN DAY: I was in the bunker to the right.  I couldn't see anything, and I heard it hit the pin, so I really had no shot.  I was just trying to get it out of the bunker on the green, hopefully putting from 10 feet.  I had a lot of lucky breaks today.
Q.  Questions?  After a day and a half of impeccable conditions, it seemed like the wind also kicked up after that rain delay.

Did that play any factor in the last three holes.
GLEN DAY: It did, because on 8, if the wind wasn't blowing or if it had been blowing like before, I would have been comfortable with the club I had to hit.  I was not comfortable with the wind with that club.
Q.  Obviously, you made reference to maybe doing something great earlier.  Was your score in the back of your head?
GLEN DAY: Not until I got in the locker room.  I didn't know I was 10 under par.  I didn't have a clue.  For the first time in a while, I was really good mentally.  I was playing shot by shot, one at a time, thinking about my swing, and obviously that's what you're supposed to do, and by my scores this year, it's pretty obvious I hadn't been doing it.  I was doing that today.  I was just happy I was in a good frame of mind and working the way I was supposed to.
Q.  So, you were in the zone then literally?
GLEN DAY: No, I wasn't that far into it.  I was doing better.  Let's put it like that.  I was doing better.
Q.  But you come in the locker room during a delay and you are 10 under, and now you do know.  I'm not sure I understand why you sort of couldn't get it back up to
GLEN DAY: I hit my driver on 7 before.  I hit it in the left rough, and the ball was actually sitting pretty good where I could get it up there.  I wasn't in the middle of the fairway thinking, I could hit it in the green here pretty easy and get a putt at it, if I make this one hit it on two greens and have a chance.  I was struggling to make par, and I knew that going back out.  I would have had to finish birdie birdie, you know, which, sure it could happen, but as soon as I had the yardage on 8, it was kind of all over.
Q.  When you look at that board, you see you and Olin and then all the youngsters.
GLEN DAY: We see all those youngsters every week.  It's unbelievable.
Q.  Is that fun or is it a grind or what?
GLEN DAY: No, I have to do my job.  These kids have their job.  I say kids; these younger men have their jobs, and sure, it's tougher for Olin and I.  We don't hit the ball as far as these kids do.  Not even close, so, I don't think Jay is having search problems right now.  You're not going to sit around and cry about it.
Q.  Anything else?  Glen, great day today.  Good luck on the weekend.
GLEN DAY: Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT