BUICK OPEN
August 9, 2002
Glen Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







GLEN DAY: I made a lot of birdies, but I made some bogeys.   I 3-putted twice and I hit it under two trees off the tee.  And you know, it's not hard to make a bogey if you get it out of fairway.  If you keep it in the fairway, you ought to be able to score.  I think somebody is going to shoot 7 -, 8 -, 9-under this afternoon myself. 

Q.  You made a ton of birdies both days.  Do you feel you should be with a lower score?
GLEN DAY: Sure, I think I 3-putted four times.  I haven't been  -- my putting hasn't been nearly what it was when I was playing really good, and it's not far off.  I made some.  But I have also missed some.  Most of my 3-putts have been just misjudging the speed. 

Q.  The leader board is really congested now.  What do you think it is going to take to win this?
GLEN DAY: One shot lower than anybody else. 

Q.  Do you expect you will have to get in the 20s?
GLEN DAY: I don't even know what place I'm in.  I haven't seen the leaderboard.  I don't know.   If the wind doesn't blow, yeah, you got to get to 20, sure. 

Q.  How is it mentally when it is this congested, when you know you are going to have to go low?  Is it tougher then or is it okay since the conditions are so good?
GLEN DAY: I mean, it doesn't really matter.  You have got to play the golf course, so, you know, you just try to do the best you can do.  You try to keep it out from under these trees, right off the fairway, get it on the green.  The greens are rolling really good.  They are a good speed.  They are fast.  You get it rolling on line, you can make a bunch of putts.

Q.  You talked about being under trees and 3-putting, but you must be doing something right?
GLEN DAY: Well, this is my 8th week in a row and I am so tired that I am not really sure.  I am creating this off the top of my head, folks, I don't know.

Q.  Putting been a problem just this week or a couple of weeks?
GLEN DAY: No, I think it has been a problem for a while.  And it's not bad.  I mean, very rarely do I putt bad.  It's just not real good.  And I have a pretty high expectation of myself when it comes to putting.  Personally I think putting ought to be one of the easiest things in the world.

Q.  Pat Bates I think he said he's playing for the eighth straight week.  That's kind of rare, isn't it and why are you  --
GLEN DAY: This is the first time I have done it since my first year out of college.  But this has been probably my worst year on Tour.  I have made a lot of cuts, but I just haven't, you know, played good.  Been making the cuts on the number by one.  The cuts I missed, I think I missed four cuts by one shot and I have been finishing 40th, 50th, 30th, 40th.  And it takes a long time to rack up any money points when you are finishing 40th. 

Q.  Basically you are out just to get your money up where it belongs?
GLEN DAY: Sure.  Yeah.  Exactly right.  Get it over with.  I am supposed to go to Scotland and (inaudible) so I am going to make sure I don't have to worry about it.

Q.  How much did you win?
GLEN DAY: My caddy and I talked about that it would be kind of different if we won and then withdrew from next week   -- 

Q.  Then play for the ninth straight week?
GLEN DAY: I don't know.  May tell my wife to pack me two or three outfits I will be home at the latest Friday afternoon.  I don't know.  I haven't even thought about it.  I am not planning on playing.  I have got two more days, I am going to do the best I can do.  I am going to take my bat and ball and I am going home.

Q.  If you win this, however, you could play one more week and you could take the whole rest of the year off, if you wanted to?
GLEN DAY: If I win we'll probably play next week and then we'll have a long time off.
JOAN V.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Glen, for joining us.  Play well this weekend.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT