GENUITY CHAMPIONSHIP
March 1, 2001
Glen Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GLEN DAY:   I played solid, made eight birdies.  I played really good.  Actually missed a couple of putts I should have made. Made two putts outside of 10 feet; that's about it. 
  

Q.  How is the course?
 
GLEN DAY:   It is in good shape. 
  

Q.  How is it playing today?
 
GLEN DAY:   The wind is not blowing, which is unusual, the wind that is blowing, a light breeze is coming, I don't know what direction, from the north, I think; this way, which makes -- makes 8 easily reachable for me. I can still get to 1 and 10.  With a light breeze in that direction I think it plays the easiest it can play. 
  

Q.  Does it look like the wind is going to get better or worse as the day goes along?  Do you have any idea?
 
GLEN DAY:   I do not have any idea. I have not done anything. 
  

Q.  No factor?
 
GLEN DAY:   No, I don't think so. 
  

Q.  It is not a monster?
 
GLEN DAY:   Not today.  Not today. 
  

Q.  Not that many lights-out scores out there so far?
 
GLEN DAY:   Well, you know, you are coming from the west coast, where typically the greens are not very good, and then you are coming to Bermuda greens, which are different, because you have to look at the green and different aspects of the greens, and they are quick.  If you can figure it out, you ought to be able to make a lot of putts.  Obviously Mike did.  So, the greens are really good, rolling good.  The fairways are fabulous, I love playing on Bermuda fairways.  I think, it is, by far, the best surface. 
  

Q.  Do you like this shoot-out mentality, the feeling:  Here we go again?
 
GLEN DAY:   Typically, no, because I really do not shoot very low.  I do not feel like in my career I shot real low a lot of places.  I like something like Colonial, and MCI, you know the scores usually are not going to be real, real low.  If you hang in there, make a lot of pars, a few birdies, you should have a chance. 
  

Q.  Does this test like comfort level threshold of players, where you get to a number that used to be comfortable and you know it is not good enough?
 
GLEN DAY:   It is like guys in the afternoon, when they tee off, they look at the board and see how many under, the comfort level is out the window.  Guys in the morning that tee off and start playing, it is okay, let's see how the course is playing, what the scores will be like.  If everybody in the morning shot six or eight under leading by one or two or something, then I do not think the scores will be that low in the afternoon.  You look at it and say, it is playing pretty hard.  People tend to accept four and -- four and five under; which is a very good score.  When the scores go to zero, you get to four or five under, you look and say, I am five back.  So... 
  

Q.  How has your game been?
 
GLEN DAY:   I am playing good for the first time in two years.  I am playing good.  I am looking forward to playing this year. 
  

Q.  I sense a little frustration then from two years?
 
GLEN DAY:   No -- well, no, there was a lot of things, not making any excuses, some things that I did.  Got into other business interests, thought I could handle stuff.  I had shoulder surgery, thought I could be superman and come back.  You know, came back too early, it affected a long period of time.  There was a lot of things, a lot of things.  Outside of golf. 
  

Q.  Are you free of all of that now?
 
GLEN DAY:   Yes, sir.  Yes, sir.  I am extremely content, very happy playing golf again. 
  

Q.  What was the business interest; did you give it up?
 
GLEN DAY:   I have some -- I got into a couple of companies; just investment stuff, just kind of -- my attitude was, I want something for the kids, for the family and try to take care of them.  Something came along that I could get in, I got in, it ended up taking a lot of my time that I did not think it would.  Great company, doing wonderful.  Turned it over now, got people running things.  I do not own it a hundred percent; different partners.  Everything is going good. 
  

Q.  What is the company?
 
GLEN DAY:   It is called Flight Environments. 
  

Q.  What is it?
 
GLEN DAY:   We make sound proofing and fire retardant interiors for airplanes; it is an aerospace company.  It can take like a -- everybody is flying in private jets; the FAA mandated a burn-through rate of five minutes, I believe it is, don't quote me on the time, on the things, but I think five minutes.  The insulation that is in the commercial planes that you fly on now, the burn-through rate is less than a minute to maybe two minutes.  The things we put in, burn-through rate is 20 minutes, plus.  The sound signature -- an airplane has a sound signature, it is measured in decibels.  It is different throughout the airplane, we go in and make it -- reduce the sound and make it consistent; which will help stewardesses, pilots, also private stuff.  It is extremely interesting. 
  

Q.  Sounds like a good company.
 
GLEN DAY:   It is, it is.  It is doing wonderful. 
  

Q.  What will it take to win?
 
GLEN DAY:   I don't know.  It is going to take a lot of birdies, though.  Typically what I do, you all start looking at there and see where I am off, usually the leading score -- yes, the leader off the first day, double it and that will be a pretty good score.  Add a couple, usually wins. Obviously, not the desert, stuff like that, it is -- but, for a rough judge; so if you judge it like that, you are looking at 20 plus. 
  

Q.  Does it change the whole mind set out here?  Has it changed?
 
GLEN DAY:   No, no, no.  I played with Calc when he shot 60 at -- where were we, Phoenix?  He played great, played one of those rounds.  He was playing great, he just continued it.  You wake up in the morning and all of a sudden the wind is howling from the other direction, 4-under will be a really good score. You take it day by day.  If you wake up tomorrow and like this in the afternoon, you think, man, this will be fun, let's go make a bunch of birdies.  It is just a day-by-day thing. 
  

Q.  It does seem like everybody is way under par in the last few weeks?
 
GLEN DAY:   Yes.  Last week they had bad weather.  I did not play San Diego.  Palm Springs was real low.  Palm Springs was like -- it was perfect.  They say the scores are getting lower, and why, I mean, you cannot imagine how perfect the golf courses were out there, the greens were -- from 30 feet, if you got it rolling the first five feet, you had a chance to make it.  A lot of that has, has to do with -- agronomy has a lot to do with the way the scores are.  They can get -- if they want the scores to not be so low here, it is very simple, you do what the USGA does, make the greens hard as a rock, tighten the fairways, you can play the U.S. Open on anybody's municipal course like the USGA sets it up, because par will be a good score. 
  

Q.  You like that?
 
GLEN DAY:   Yes and no.  It is a lot of fun standing out in the fairway with a 6-iron, thinking I can get it close, as opposed to saying, how am I going to make par.  The U.S. Open is a different thing. They set their courses up differently.  That is all there is to it.  They set them up differently. 
 
GLEN DAY:   Let me see where I made them. 
 
GLEN DAY:   Started on 10, hit it short of the green in two, chipped it up to a foot.  Missed it from about five feet on 12.  15, par 3, I hit it about 6 feet. Next hole I hit it about 6 feet.  18, I hit it about five feet and missed it.  1, I hit the green, hit 3-wood on the green, two putt.  2, I missed one from about 8 feet.  4 I missed one from about 10 feet.  5, I hit it three feet.  6, I made it from about 12 to 15 feet.  7 I made it from about 15 feet.  Two putted 8. 
  

Q.  What did you hit on 18?
 
GLEN DAY:   9-iron. 
  

Q.  Is it a little down there?
 
GLEN DAY:   There wasn't much, there wasn't much.  I had to hit it really good to carry the water, but the fairways are so good, if you can get it in the fairway, the ball will bounce and go on in.  Plus, the pin was on the front. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT