BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
February 14, 2001
Glen Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GLEN DAY:   I started on the back nine.  Made some good up-and-downs.  I made a good up-and-down on 10 and 11 and  -- (Inaudible.) Four on the back nine and.  I just made eight birdies, no bogeys.  I just played solid.  
 
Q.  I know you've played here before, could you assess the four courses in the rotation, and do you see an appreciable difference in one from another?  Is there a place that you think that you have to make a move, per se?
 
GLEN DAY:   No, really, not out here, I don't think so.  I always have trouble here at Indian Wells, as a matter of fact, the back nine.  I usually play PGA West good.  They are all good. The greens are good.  There's not a whole lot of rough, and, you know, it turns into, a lot of times, a putting contest and it is just how many birdies you can make.  
 
Q.  This tournament notoriously is a low-scoring tournament.  What's the game plan in terms of do you feel a lot of pressure to come out and start and have a good first day like you did? 
 
GLEN DAY:   Yes and no.  You know it's going to be a really low-scoring tournament and you want to get off to a good start.  You feel like if you play five or six holes and you don't make a birdie, you're losing ground.  The whole key to me in this tournament is just to stay patient.  You know the birdies are out there.  They are going to come.  You're going to make a bunch of birdies.  Just try to give yourself as many opportunities, whether you are making them or not doesn't matter.  You've just got to give yourself opportunities and hopefully you make some putts.  
 
GLEN DAY:   I birdied 18  -- I birdied 2, I hit a sand wedge and made about a 10-footer.  4, I hit an 8-iron and made about a 15-footer.  7, I made a really good putt, about a 15 -, 20-foot putt and hit a sand wedge out of a fairway bunker. I 2-putted.  15 is a par 3.  I hit a 6-iron about five feet and made it.  16, I hit sand wedge about eight feet and made it.  17, I hit wedge about 10 feet and made it.  18, I hit an L-wedge for a gimmee.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT