BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 19, 2000
Glen Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 GLEN DAY: It is the start of the year. I wish we had more time off, but we don't. I
played good today. This is my third tournament, which is unbelievable for me, because this
is usually my first. But I played decent today. You know, it's a five-round tournament.
You've got to shoot about 88-under, and I'm only 6. So I've got a long way to go.  
 
Q. Could you talk about that -- you shoot 6-under today, and you go, "Well, 25, 26
may be what it takes here." How do you balance being patient enough to make your own
birdies with forcing? 
 
 GLEN DAY: You've got one more day than normal here, for one. And, you know, out here,
most courses, the greens -- the condition of the courses are so good that literally most
every hole is a birdie hole. And the hardest part is when you are playing really good, and
you feel like you are only about 3- or 4-under, and you feel like you should be 7- or 8-
already. That's the hardest part. Yeah, you've got to just be patient, make a lot of pars
and, hopefully, you make some putts.  
 
Q. You mentioned this is three tournaments for you already, instead of opening the
season here. Do you feel better about your swing coming in with a couple tournaments under
your best? 
 
 GLEN DAY: Well, the more you play, obviously -- I played pretty good in Kapalua, and I
didn't play that good in Honolulu, which is no big deal. So, I don't know. It's the third
week out, as opposed to the first. I've been doing it a little more.  
 
Q. What kind of adjustment is it going from that grain in Honolulu to this? 
 
 GLEN DAY: Well, I played Honolulu my rookie year, and the course is just not good for
me. I like to hit it left-to-right; you've got to hit it right-to-left. I can't run it
through fairways. I never got the speed of the greens. I played there -- I played that
golf course now six times. It's just, you know some courses just aren't for you. I putted
okay at Kapalua and I always have. And they have got grainy greens there. Go figure. I
don't know. That's why they call it golf.  
 
Q. Why did you play Sony, just because you were there?
 
 GLEN DAY: Yeah. Because my wife said she wanted to go to Honolulu. Just like any good
husband, I said, "Yes, ma'am."  
 
Q. And she also wanted to come to Palm Springs? 
 
 GLEN DAY: Well, she had the kids out there so she had to go home this week. 
 
Q. Talking about today's round, after shooting as good a score as you did today, how do
you feel about your chances the rest of the week, I know it's early? 
 
 GLEN DAY: It's too early to even -- I mean, if we were all going out to dinner, we
haven't even valeted the car yet.  
 
Q. Obviously, you are playing well, any particular facets of the game that you're doing
better at than others? 
 
 GLEN DAY: No, I didn't make any bad mistakes today. I didn't make a bogey. I just kind
of played along. I only shot 2-under on the front, which is not that good, and I ended up
birdieing 17 and 18. For 6-under, it's just -- if you don't make mistakes, you just
basically see how many putts you can make. And like this gentleman said earlier, you just
try to stay patient. 
 
Q. Last two years on TOUR, you have obviously been very good. Just curious, do you go
into this season now expecting more from yourself than maybe you did four or five years
ago? 
 
 GLEN DAY: No, not really, because I have always -- I always expected a lot of myself.
The years I can look back through my career, the years that I played good, were years that
I didn't set goals. Because the years that I set goals, I either reached them real early
and had nowhere to go or maybe wasn't playing that good. And I couldn't get to them or set
them too high and get mad. And every year that I just kind of started and said,
"Okay, I'm going to go the best I can do, see where that turns out," I done
good. So hopefully, I've learned a little bit, I'm a little more mature; maybe I can
figure that out and keep that through my career. 
 
Q. A little attention this week on Casey Martin playing for the first time as a TOUR
member. Do you know him very well? Have you played with him before? And do you think it
won't be long before, despite the cart, he pretty much blends in with everybody else? 
 
 GLEN DAY: I met him the other day at Indian Wells. He was playing a practice round. And
I think I have talked to him before, but extremely nice. You know he came up, he
introduced himself. Just wanted to say hello. I let him head-up or whatever. Great guy.
And that's what everybody says. You know, I think he -- he probably wishes that all the
media that's following him around would go somewhere else and let him play golf, to be
honest. And that's what he needs. He needs to play golf. Let him play golf. Let him have
fun.  
 
 GLEN DAY: I birdied 6. Birdied 6 from about five feet. 8 is a par 5. I hit it up front
of the green; kind of got up-and-down. Made it from about five feet. Where else?  
 
 GLEN DAY: 10, I hit it from about three inches. Pretty good on wind. Made that one. 
 
 GLEN DAY: 8- or 9-iron. Short iron. 8-iron. Take your pick. 14, I hit 9-iron in there
about six or seven feet. And then 17, I hit 3-iron in there about four feet. That was
probably my best shot. And 18, I left it short of the green, chipped up about, oh, seven,
eight feet behind the hole and made it.  
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT