DORAL-RYDER OPEN
March 6, 1999
Glen Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You look far too tired for somebody who just shot 67.
 
GLEN DAY:  You are right, that's the fine physical shape I am in, probably. 
 
GLEN DAY:  I will have to look. 
 
GLEN DAY:  5, I hit a wedge about, oh, six, seven feet.  7, I made -- hit an 8-iron about 15 feet, made it. 
 
GLEN DAY:  8, I made a real good putt from 20 feet left of the hole down the hill. 
 
GLEN DAY:  Just an L-wedge, I don't know, 80 yards, hit a bad shot. 
 
GLEN DAY:  10 was driver 3-iron right on the front, 2-putt. 
 
GLEN DAY:  I don't know, whereever the pin was, on 10. 
 
GLEN DAY:  40 feet.  15, the par 3, I hit -- it was a perfect club, I hit a real good shot in there about, oh, two, three feet. 
 
GLEN DAY:  8-iron. 
 

Q.  That's your best shot of the day, the putt on 8?
 
GLEN DAY:  Best shot of the day, that's pretty good, yes, that would be pretty good. 
 

Q.  That was better than the putt on 8?
 
GLEN DAY:  They all equal out, you know, they were -- no, the putt was probably better because you don't expect to make that putt, you know, the shots you can hit it in there and still make a putt. 
 

Q.  You say it was downhill?
 
GLEN DAY:  Yes, yes, sir, downhill towards the water.  I was left of the hole. 
 

Q.  Are you glad to be done with the west coast swing?
 
GLEN DAY:  Yes, yes.  You know, living east and going west is tough because when you get out there you can't get home that day and I got a family, I just as soon stay home.  Plus I never -- I have never played good on the west coast.  Some people play good, some don't. 
 

Q.  Can you put your finger on why?
 
GLEN DAY:  Yes, it takes me way too many shots to finish 18 holes over there.  It's amazing.  
 

Q.  Any other reasons?
 
GLEN DAY:  No, not off the top of my head.  Just early in the year, it is hard to get back into it for me and the travel is tough, you know, I actually feel sorry for the people that live on the west coast because most of our Tour is east, and they really, really have a hard time. 
 

Q.  Seems this year more players played more out there, is that just a reaction to the money?  What do you think it was?
 
GLEN DAY:  I have no idea.  Everybody's schedule is different.  Everybody makes their own schedules.  I don't know. 
 

Q.  You have played here pretty regularly in the past?
 
GLEN DAY:  I play here every year, yes. 
 

Q.  I guess when you look around, I guess this week a lot of the guys aren't here, does that surprise you in any way?
 
GLEN DAY:  No, no, I mean, they -- you know, the World Golf Championship was last week, so you got to take some time off.  You can't play every week, so you have to pick and choose where you are going to take off.  I think a lot of guys will take this week and next week off and then play up through the Masters or something like that. 
 

Q.  Do you sense this as a better opportunity for a guy like you, you know, did pretty well --
 
GLEN DAY:  You know, I am a sensitive individual, what do you mean by a guy like me?  Could you stand up and repeat that, please? 
 

Q.  Well, I mean, 1.2 million you earned last year, you haven't won on Tour yet.  Do you regard this as a ripe opportunity --
 
GLEN DAY:  Every tournament I tee up is a ripe opportunity.  I am trying to win, so I don't care if it's-- I don't care what it is or where it is.  If I am playing, I am trying to win.  Now, that doesn't always work, but you got to play that way.  I am still a sensitive individual, by the way. 
 

Q.  Are you on this computer thing that's new, that's supposed to help guys with the reservations?
 
GLEN DAY:  Can you say that one more time? 
 

Q.  This new thing the PGA thing has to help players with reservations and hotels.
 
GLEN DAY:  I have a computer and I know where the on button is and I try not to touch it because I am scared that thing will come on if I touch it. 
 

Q.  I take that to mean you're not on it?
 
GLEN DAY:  There you go.  No, I don't mess with those things.  I like a phone, telephone, I know who I have talked to and what is going on. 
 

Q.  You're sensitive to the computer, too?
 
GLEN DAY:  I don't like computers, I don't like computers. 
 

Q.  When is the last time you had a round like this, no bogeys?
 
GLEN DAY:  I don't know, I don't keep up with it like that.  I haven't played that good -- I think I have only played one good round this year.  That was in Phoenix.  I may not have  had any bogeys that day, I don't remember. 
 

Q.  Anything specific that's got you on track this week or -- you can attribute it to?
 
GLEN DAY:  No, I didn't play -- I scored real good the first day and I hit the ball terrible and I have been -- I practiced every day which I usually do not hit practice balls after I finish.  I think I found something in my swing.  I can't put a finger on it, it's just -- you know, we go through swing keys and swing thoughts to kind of get you through, you want to hit different shots certain ways and I am still not hitting it as good as I can by any means, but I just kind of played smart and made some putts today. 
 

Q.  Who is on the button on your hat?
 
GLEN DAY:  My two little girls. 
 

Q.  When did you have that made up?
 
GLEN DAY:  The oldest one is Whitney.  She's four and a half and the youngest is three and a half, she's three.  When Whitney was a baby, my wife made a button and sent it to me and I put it on my hat and I have kept it ever since. 
 

Q.  There was a lot said last week at Match Play that it was a bust because you didn't have marquee names in the semifinals. Then there was talk:  This isn't the greatest tournament it used to be because the big-time names aren't here.  Do you think the guys that are young on this Tour, like the Bob Burns and Chris Riley, do you think they take offense to that?
 
GLEN DAY:  Well, one you have to look and see who is writing the stuff.  Jeffrey probably wrote some of that stuff so you have to take some of that into account. 
 

Q.  That's where I got it.
 
GLEN DAY:  Yes, see, last week it shows you just how tight the game of golf is - 1 to 64 - anybody can win in Match Play, that's a one day, one time deal.  Janzen beat me three and two and I was 3-under.  Andrew Magee won his first match.  He was 4-over.  It is Match Play, okay.  For people to say you don't have the marquee names and this and that, that's been said a lot, said just about every week that we're out.  It doesn't matter.  It's kind of -- actually, it is kind of boring to hear.  I mean, you're looking at names.  If you want to look at quality of golf, there's plenty of quality of golf at this tournament. 
 

Q.  Did you ever have that written about you when you first came out and got around the lead on a weekend and no one really knew who you were?
 
GLEN DAY:  I don't know, probably. 
 

Q.  I mean, do you recall ever seeing that and getting irked by it?
 
GLEN DAY:  No, I didn't get irked by it, I can assure you. 
 

Q.  Sensitive?
 
GLEN DAY:  I don't -- I don't pay much attention.  I have got a job to do just like you all have a job to do.  My job is out there, whether somebody writes I am a nice guy or not a nice guy, it doesn't change the 14 clubs that are in my bag, so why worry about it.  
 

Q.  Last year when you were playing well you said that some of your expectations or goals had gone up because you were playing well.  Coming into this year, did you set higher standards for yourself than you did last year?
 
GLEN DAY:  Sure, it's kind of like a stepping ladder or building blocks, you know, I added some blocks and I stepped up a level last year.  Now I have to maintain that, so, yes, your goals change.  I have got a legitimate shot at the Ryder Cup.  I think I need to win a couple of times.  That's a goal there.  There's a lot of things.  It just -- what drives a certain person, top-30 maybe, top 70 for some guys, you know, rookies want to finish in the top 70 maybe, top-30, wins, Ryder Cups, President Cups, play good in the majors, it just is kind of how -- first you have to see how it gets going, I think, and then look from there. 
 

Q.  Do you feel any pressure to maintain what you established last year and improve upon it?
 
GLEN DAY:  Pressure from other people, no.  From myself, yes, I will put that pressure on myself and I will do it happily because, you know, when I was growing up a lot of times I heard many a times that -- oh, that kid doesn't have a chance; he is not going to make it, so now it's up to me to show that last year wasn't a fluke.  I fully expect to do that. 
 

Q.  Glen, how much of an ambition is the Ryder Cup for you?
 
GLEN DAY:  Well, it would be a tremendous honor for me because I played three years in Europe and so it would really, really be an honor for me.  It's something to work for.  And it's something that I, you know, when you get out there today or tomorrow that may -- you always have to use something to release the tension, let's say, while you're playing, if you've got a tough putt or if you need to make a putt, and that -- something like that, and I am not saying that's what I am going to do or anything, but something like that, you know, this putt, 5-footer, boy, if you make it, that's great, you can be tied for the lead, but that's one step closer, you know, to making the Ryder Cup.  So that kinds of puts things in perspective. 
 

Q.  Wouldn't that put more tension on you?
 
GLEN DAY:  No, no. 
 

Q.  You still maintain contact with your friends from the European Tour?
 
GLEN DAY:  When they come over here and when I go over and I play Loch Lomond and the British and I still call some people that we used to play with, around Tour anymore, yes, I do,, great group of guys and I had a ball. 
 

Q.  It is a different kind of Tour, isn't it?
 
GLEN DAY:  It is extremely different.  Different in a good way. 
 

Q.  Very sociable Tour?
 
GLEN DAY:  Yes.  This is family oriented, you know, a lot of families don't travel over there, families travel out here so you don't run around with the guys, you know, all as much.  I think this is much more family oriented. 
 

Q.  Is playing faster than you once did contributed to you playing better? 
 
GLEN DAY:  Yes, in a word. 
 

Q.  In what ways?
 
GLEN DAY:  I make up my mind of what shot I am going to hit and then hit it and that does not always guarantee that it's going to be better, but it gives you an opportunity to hit a better shot as opposed to standing over it, playing slow and this and that.  Yes, I do think it's helped. 
 

Q.  Concentration is more focused when you cut down the time?
 
GLEN DAY:  Commitment level is higher. 
 

Q.  What brought that on?
 
GLEN DAY:  Brought -- 
 

Q.  Just the effort to --
 
GLEN DAY:  Well, I played real, real slow and, you know, it's something that I needed to work on.  And so as I was working on that I found that it did help, you know, playing a little -- making up my mind and hitting shots, I played better.  It's something that I will constantly work on probably my whole career. 
 

Q.  How many fines did you get?
 
GLEN DAY:  One. 
 

Q.  Just one?
 
GLEN DAY:  Yes. 
 

Q.  How many times were you put on the clock?
 
GLEN DAY:  Just as many as anybody else out here. 
 

Q.  Byron Nelson, did that come from the Byron Nelson, the fines?
 
GLEN DAY:  No, Honda, actually. 
 

Q.  Glen, speaking to your own schedule and scheduling, do the three world events or the new world events, would that cause you to play more or less or have no impact on at all?
 
GLEN DAY:  It will have no impact. 
 

Q.  What do you do in preparation for a final round when you are in the hunt, anything?
 
GLEN DAY:  No, same thing I have been doing.  Not a thing.  It's just another day at the office. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT