THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 29, 1998
Glen Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GLEN DAY:  Played really good on the front 9.  Got it going, only hit one bad shot, 7-iron in the bunker, almost got it -- wasn't really in the bunker on No. 7 -- almost got it up-and-down, and then made a really great putt on 8 and just had things rolling, going nice.  And, hit wedge in on 10.  I didn't think I hit that bad of a shot and it bounced to the right, had a terrible lie, made bogey there.  And then I didn't hit a very good putt on 11 for birdie.  Made par there.  Pulled it on 12 again, hit a good shot, didn't hole the green, made bogey there.  And, you know, then I was kind of a little shook. Everybody else was making birdies and I tried to hit it just in the middle of the green on 13.  When that pin is on the left, just really hard shot for me and I came out of it, hit it in the bunker; made another bogey.  Then the rest of the day was just kind of, you know:  Ho-hum, let's get to the house.  I made a really good putt on 17 for birdie.  And hit a great shot on 18.  Boy, I really thought it was going right at the pin.  I thought it would carry that little ridge and bounce back there, and caught the ridge, spun back, made a great 2-putt for par, and got done and just thought I'd come see you all for a minute.  (laughter).


Q. Glen, I believe you were 2 ahead at the turn.  What are you thinking at that point?

GLEN DAY:  I didn't know I was 2 ahead at the turn. I didn't change my thinking at all any time.  I had a not-so-good yardage on No. 10.  I killed a drive and I had pitching wedge left, but it was a really hard pitching wedge.  I normally hit my pitching wedge about 122 and I had 124 to carry the bunker, so, you know, I hit it good and it barely carried the bunker.  I thought it was about ten feet right of the hole and it kicked right down in that grass, made bogey.  That was just kind of the way the back 9 started and that is the way it kind of went.


Q. When the day began it was almost like USGA matchplay between you and Lee Janzen.  At what point did you -- and you caught up with him and passed him, but then at some point the focus kind went off of you two guys, especially as Lee began  to have his problems.  What was going on with you two?  How aware of what was going on elsewhere were you two?  What did you think of what was going on with Lee?

GLEN DAY:  Well, you can look at the scoreboard and see what is going on with everybody else.  This is a really hard golf course and you just miss a couple of shots and you get down on yourself, and Lee is a great player.  He did not play good today.  That does not mean he won't be back - I can assure you.  He got the drive going, a little crooked to start with and kind of got behind the 8-ball early and, you know, it just never materialized.  We got around on the back 9 and I guess, Lennie was making a bunch of birdies and Justin was making a bunch of birdies and I just decided to make a bunch of bogeys.  And, don't know why I did that.  I have to think about that.  And, didn't -- it was kind of -- I fell way behind.  So, it ended up Justin won it in a cake-walk, but that is -- I should have done better than I did on the back 9.  I shot 2-over on the back 9.  You are not going to win a golf tournament shooting 2-over on the back 9.


Q. What about that stance on No. 7, out of the trap you almost fell down?

GLEN DAY:  Oh, gosh.  There is a pot bunker over there.  I must have hit the ridge -- hit the grass, it bounced all the way through the bunker and I don't know how  it stayed out of the bunker.  It was out by two inches.  I didn't even think I was going to be able to stand up and make the shot that.  Probably the best shot I hit all day because I did not think that I could get it out of that hole.  And I hit a great shot.  Hit a great putt.  Hung on the lip.


Q. Those are soft spikes you have there?

GLEN DAY:  Yes.


Q. You figure they contributed --

GLEN DAY:  If I would have had -- I could have had nails (laughter) in these things and I would have still fallen over.

GLEN DAY:  2, I hit a 2-iron on the green, 2-putted.  4, I hit a sand wedge about 15 feet, below the hole, made it.  5, I hit a great shot H. 4-iron about five feet behind the hole, made it.

GLEN DAY:  8, I hit a 2-iron and it rolled through the back of the green and I just -- I hit a good putt and the hole kind of got in the way.

GLEN DAY:  From the back edge had to be 20 feet.

GLEN DAY:  12, I pulled it left off the tee again. You can't do that.  13, I bailed out to the right in that bunker, can't do that.

GLEN DAY:  Oh, had to be about ten feet.

GLEN DAY:  17, that pin is always over there back right, and I actually barely stayed up kind of in the middle of the green, I made -- of all the putts that I missed today, I mean, that putt had no business going in the hole.  It was the hardest putt I had all day and it went in.

GLEN DAY:  30 feet.  30, 40 feet.  I hit a 9-iron in.
 

Q. Of all the rewards you could have gotten for winning today, how does The Masters fit into that disappointment or were you even thinking of that?

GLEN DAY:  No, I wasn't thinking that.  I wasn't thinking that.  The thing that really kept me going all week long and really kind of put things in perspective, I really, in my heart, wanted to play good today so I could stand on 18 with that trophy and dedicate it to the people in Jonesboro, Arkansas that had a terrible tragedy this past week and that  is kind of what kept me going.  It keeps things in perspective.  Hey, I had the chance to play golf, beautiful day, you know, there were some people that may have had a dream to play golf, but not now.  And that is kind of what he kept me going and I am disappointed that I didn't win for that.  And really no other reason.


Q. Will you play New Orleans?

GLEN DAY:  Yes, sir.


Q. Of the so-called 20-somethings, Ernie Els, Tiger Woods, where, in your opinion, where does, particularly off of today, where does Justin stand in that group?

GLEN DAY:  Justin is by far one of the best players in the world.  I played with him the first two rounds here last year, I thought he was going to win last year.  I don't think he played good on the weekend.  He has got more shots -- I would go out on a limb and say Justin probably has more shots in his golf bag than anybody else on Tour. Because he doesn't hit the ball that far compared to these long hitters and he is just rock solid, mentally, physically, he has got all the shots.


Q. Do you think about Augusta, is that something that really thrives you or --

GLEN DAY:  Everybody would love to play Augusta, sure.  Does it drive you?  No, you want to win the golf  tournament first.  If you win the tournament, then you get the other things.  You can't get to Augusta if you don't win.  So, you know, there is no sense in putting the cart ahead of the mule.  You just got to load the wagon.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT