THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 28, 1998
Glen Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GLEN DAY:  Played really, really good on the front 9.  I had 3 birdies.  Shot 3-under really solid.  I hit a great shot on 10.  Had to struggle for par.  From then on I felt like I was struggling for par, struggling for pars.  The greens got really, really hard.  And it was tough to -- it was really hard to get it close.  It was tough just to hit the greens so, it plays good on the back.  Hit a couple of bad shots, but, hey, didn't see anybody in the hospital.  (laughter). 
 
GLEN DAY:  True?  Was that not a true thought?  Tell me where I made them. 
 
GLEN DAY:  I hit a 9-iron about, oh, 10, 15 feet.  4, I hit a L-wedge really about two, three feet; hit a really good shot.  6, I pulled my tee shot left in the bunker, hit a  great 9-iron that just happened to hit in the right place. Went up there about a foot and a half, so it was tap-in. That was good.  Bogey at 12.  I pulled my driver left and down there in those holes and I had the worst lie possible.  I was just trying to chip it out.  I shot it down, hit the cart path twice and I was 60 yards left and long of the pin.  I made an extremely good up-and-down for bogey there.  I made a really good up-and-down on the next hole on the par 3.  And, then the next hole I hit a great drive down there.  I had 9-iron into the pin.  And, I just started it at the pin, instead of the middle of the green.  It was perfect distance.  It caught this little knoll along the right-hand side, spun back, just dead.  I just chipped it and 2-putted. 
 
GLEN DAY:  Oh, 30 feet.  I hit it 30 feet by. 2-putted.  Then 16, I hit a great drive, and we were waiting - not because of me, I was actually waiting on somebody else, thank you very much - and, we were waiting and I had a 3-iron in my hand and it was -- I kind of never made up my mind, hit it thin in the bunker, hit a really good bunker shot to get it on the level of the pin.  Then made a really good 10-, 15-footer for birdie.  And then hit a good putt on the next hole from 10, 15 feet that didn't go in.  And, I hit an absolutely horrible 9-iron into the last hole, and 2-putted for a par.  And, that was it. 
 

Q. No. 10, you mentioned a great shot.  What was that?
 
GLEN DAY:  I hit an 8-iron just exactly like I wanted to and it just got past the pin.  Right past the pin was a big dip, and it went down the dip.  I had 35 feet up a ridge coming back and I ended up making a good 5-, 6-footer for par. 
 

Q. You said on number 12, great up-and-down for bogey. Could have been double-bogey pretty easily.  Is this one of those hang-in-there days, hang on the end of the rope, see what happens at the end of the day and see where you stand?
 
GLEN DAY:  This golf course, all you do is hold on when you start and you hope you are still holding on when you finish.  I mean, this course will beat you up.  This was a day to go out and try to make a move. Saturday is always moving days.  Lee Janzen, you know, he was leading going in.  He shoots 3-under, 69, you know, if he shoots another 3-under, that is 13-under.  That is pretty stout.  I mean, that is really good.  I played really well, so, as far as holding on, seeing what happens, you just -- you go out, you do the very  best you can do and that is it. 
 

Q. For moving day, usually a moving day is you move up on the board.  Leonard, I think, was one of the ones that moved up the board.  Most everybody else seemed to fall back a little bit.
 
GLEN DAY:  You can just attribute that to the golf course. 
 

Q. Is it specifically just the greens?
 
GLEN DAY:  The course is a fabulous golf course.  It is set up really good.  Playing really hard.  It is not hard to make a bogey.  It is not hard to make a double-bogey.  I mean, if you blink or breath the wrong way, you are going to be in trouble. 
 

Q. Obviously Lee Janzen, he has won a US Open.  He won here a couple of years ago when the conditions are very difficult.  I am wondering how hard will it be to catch up with someone like him?
 
GLEN DAY:  He is definitely in the driver's seat. If he plays good tomorrow, he will be extremely hard to catch.  If he puts together a really good round, you know, he will be real hard to catch.  And he knows what is going on.  Like you said, he has been there.  And he has won around here.  And he has won in difficult situations, and difficult courses.  I am looking forward to playing with him tomorrow and just, you know,  watch and see and see what goes on.  At least I will be right there and, you know, if something -- if he does slip, maybe I can hit a good shot and maybe I can hit a hole-in-one, I don't know, who knows, on 18 or something.  (laughter). 
 

Q. Were you ever, say, three shots off, going into the final round in any one of your tournaments anywhere and what was that feeling chasing the leader from there?
 
GLEN DAY:  Probably.  And, I don't know.  (laughter)  No, you know, like I said, I may have been three shots off the lead and in 18th place.  That happens all the time around here. 
 

Q. When you finished second, did you play in the last group?
 
GLEN DAY:  I was in the next to the last group. McCumber was in the last group. 
 

Q. What is your biggest check on Tour?
 
GLEN DAY:  I don't know, my wife spends it anyway - doesn't really matter (laughter). 
 

Q. Can you talk about the fans a little bit today here, how they were?
 
GLEN DAY:  They were behind these ropes and we kind of played down this way and they kind of stayed on the side. They were all over the place, too, man.  Oh, yeah.  They were great.  (laughter).  No, they were good.  I enjoyed playing today.  I had  a good time.  Somebody needs to shave over here on the right. 
 

Q. Are you the funniest player on Tour?
 
GLEN DAY:  I don't know.  Is there a contest? 
 

Q. No, who do you think the funniest player on Tour is?  If your neighbor asked you, just kind of shooting the bull over mowing the lawn, who would you say?
 
GLEN DAY:  Shoot, I don't know.  Everybody -- I think Mike Reid is funny.  He has got a great dry sense of humor.  He is hilarious.  Everybody is different.  Everybody can be funny.  Peter Jacobsen, obviously.  I don't know. Never thought about it. 
 
GLEN DAY:  Anyone?  Anyone. 
 

Q. Will you tense up at all for Sunday?
 
GLEN DAY:  I don't know.  It is not Sunday. Probably.  In certain situations.  I think everybody will.  I mean, that is the struggle of golf is you have to -- the game is played within yourself.  And if I can control my emotions, my best score may be 72, and I may finish 28th and everybody may shoot zero.  But, even par may be my best score that I could shoot within myself tomorrow and I will be pleased.  I will just do whatever I can do.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT