THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
May 29, 1997
Glen Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GLEN DAY:  I chipped in on the first hole for par. Made it from about 15 feet on 2. 
 
GLEN DAY:  6-iron.  Hit a 7-iron on 3, about four feet and made it.  Hit a 7-iron on the next hole I birdied, 6; about 10 feet.  Chipped in on 8 from just over the green. 
 
GLEN DAY:  It's six, seven steps from the back, 25 feet. 
 
GLEN DAY:  12, Par-3, I hit an 8-iron in about 5 feet. 
 
GLEN DAY:  14 I hit a pitching wedge, pin-high on the left bunker, absolutely dead.  So I made a good bogey there.  
 
GLEN DAY:  I didn't get it on the green. 
 
GLEN DAY:  I made a good bogey.  That was a good bogey, that's one under par, if you need any help with this, just tell me. 
 
GLEN DAY:  17, I made it from about 15 feet, just past pin-high on the right, and I hit a great shot, I hit an 8-iron from the left side of the fairway, I was standing in the bunker and hit a really good shot.  And then 18 I made it from whatever, 20 feet or so, hit 6-iron in. 
 

Q.  What's your track record in weather like this?
 
GLEN DAY:  I played in Europe for three years, so I've played -- this was -- this would be a great day in Scotland sometimes.  There was no wind, very little rain, overcast. People would be sunbathing. 
 

Q.  Do you think it's any coincidence, then, that yourself and a guy from Sweden and a guy from Minnesota are tied for the lead in the tournament today?
 
GLEN DAY:  I don't know, it's just kind of how you approach it when you tee off.  If you go, oh, man, this is such a crappy day and everything, then you probably are not going to  play that good.  But I actually saw the radar, before we went out.  I told my caddy it's going to break, it's not going to rain all day long.  And I said if it just stays overcast, it will be perfect scoring.  I had a really good frame of mind going out.  And I ended up playing good. 
 

Q.  How has your year been going?
 
GLEN DAY:  Fair to middlin', not great.  I don't know what I've made.  I've had some chances, I played real good, I think I've only had two top-10s, but I think I've made like 11 cuts.  So I've been playing a lot of golf and not a lot of good golf.  Starting at Greensboro I really started hitting the ball good and playing good, and I've really played good since.  I made some mistakes, which -- where I haven't finished where I really wanted to or thought I should.  But I've been playing a lot better, playing a lot better. 
 

Q.  Is this your first Memorial?
 
GLEN DAY:  Third. 
 

Q.  Did you play here before --
 
GLEN DAY:  Twice before. 
 

Q.  As an amateur?
 
GLEN DAY:  No. 
 

Q.  I mean before turning pro did you play here in any of the amateur events or college events or anything like that?
 
GLEN DAY:  No, they didn't have a college event here. 
 

Q.  They have a Nicklaus Collegiate. 
 
GLEN DAY:  When I was in college I don't think we had.  If we did, we didn't play.  No, we didn't play.  And I only played in -- I played in two amateur events in my life, so I didn't. 
 

Q.  What's the best thing that you've done in golf?
 
GLEN DAY:  The best thing that I've done in golf? Good question.  Probably making it out here on TOUR or making it as a professional.  From where I came from to get to where I am, I grew up in south Mississippi on a little nine hole course, I got to play on the weekends, worked most of the time in the summers, just getting here.  And played two years in -- I mean three years in Europe, two years in Asia, and this is my fourth year here.  So I'd say the best thing I've done in golf is given myself the opportunity to play out here and to have a chance to do good and win some tournaments. 
 

Q.  Did you ever win any tournaments overseas or anything?
 
GLEN DAY:  I won the Malaysia Open, and I won something else that was at the same course, and I forget the name of it-- the county.  I won a couple of tournaments over there.  I lost in playoff in Europe.  And I finished second, my best finish here on this TOUR.  It was my first year at Williamsburg. 
 

Q.  Do you approach the second round, now, any differently, when you shoot a great score in the first round, do you approach the second round differently, or just go out  with a blank slate and try to do the same thing again?
 
GLEN DAY:  No, you go out with a blank slate.  The course will play different.  You just try to stick to a strategy you've got to play, and just play the game.  Don't try to do anything stupid, take what it gives you, try to be as boring as possible and make as many ten-footers as you can. That's how you win golf tournaments. 
 

Q.  There's a button on the side of your hat?
 
GLEN DAY:  That's my two girls.  Whitney is 34 months and Christina is 16 months.  I've just put the button on the side of my hat.  I've got a couple of them on the sides of my hats. 
 

Q.  Were you recruited to play college golf?
 
GLEN DAY:  Yes, sir, I went to Old Miss for three years.  Red-shirted one year, and played a year and then quit golf for about nine months and transferred to Oklahoma and played two years there. 
 

Q.  Any particular reason you gave it up for a while?
 
GLEN DAY:  I loved college, man, what a great place (laughter.)  All those buildings were pretty and everything, and it was just great.  I had a ball.  And I made our team at Old Miss.  Matter of fact, we finished 3rd in NCAA's, the year I played, Grenelefe, and -- but I didn't practice, ever.  I didn't -- I didn't apply myself very much there.  And I was -- I had gotten to where I had 20 credits to graduate and four  years and I already was set and wanted to get a job and be in the financial industry, and just ended up running into the coach at Oklahoma and going out there, started playing golf again. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT