U.S. SENIOR OPEN
July 2, 2017
Glen Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Well, you don't have to qualify next year.  
GLEN DAY: I don't even know where I stand.   
 Q.  T6 right now.  
GLEN DAY: Maybe it will hold up.  Who knows.  I played really good.  That 18th hole has got my number.  Holy cow, it's got my number.   
I had a lot of putts that I thought were going in.  The last two days, seven or eight putts, I thought were going in that didn't.  So that's the difference.   
But I played solid.  The golf course was right there, very fair.  The fairways were plenty generous.  Except 18 looked like a bowling alley to me, and it's 90 yards wide.  So anyway, it's good?   
 Q.  Playing downwind the last two holes?  
GLEN DAY: Playing downwind.  17 is going to be tough downwind.  If you fly it on the green, it's going to the back, and if you land it short, it's -- you know, unless you hit some kind of putt shot or something, it will be tough.   
 Q.  With which one of those birdies coming in did you like the most?  
GLEN DAY: You know, actually, I'm more happy about my par on 15 because it was into the wind and I didn't want to hit it over the green.  I thought I'd hit 3 iron on the front.  Then I chipped it over the green, and then I chipped it in for par.  Then I made a good putt on 16 -- you know, finally made one.   
And 17 was just a gift.  I hit a 4 iron.  Ball was kind of in a hole, downhill lie.  I hit a 4 iron and ran it up 15 feet behind the hole and made a good putt.  I had to do that because I knew I had to play 18.  I hate that hole.  Did I mention that?   
 Q.  What about 18 is it?  
GLEN DAY: I don't know.  The fairway's nine miles wide.  I mean, and you've got targets to hit at.  And I have just missed the right -- the fairway to the right twice and hit it in the water.  And so today, I tried to focus on one target, and I hit it solid, and it was left.  And it bounced and rolled in the rough left.   
 Q.  You played well in this Championship both times that you've been in it.  What do you like about it?  What gives you a good feeling?  
GLEN DAY: I love it because it's a hard -- the golf courses are harder than normal, but they're playable, meaning it's not a normal U.S. Open, where they're 7,800 yards, which I can't play.   
I don't know how long this course is.  It's irrelevant.  Scioto, it was the same way.  It was wonderful.  If you hit good golf shots, you could hit the next shot.  You know, it wasn't like the kids today.  If I go out and play and I hit a good golf shot, and I say I've got to hit 5 wood or 3 wood for the next shot.   
So that's what I like about it.  It's tough, scores aren't going to be real low.  If you keep your mind in it and you play good, you know you can make some birdies, and I can still play it.   
 Q.  What did you think the leaders will battle the most as they come down the stretch?  
GLEN DAY: Downwind 17 and 18, and into the wind on 15.  They should birdie 14, and then you come downwind basically 16, 17, 18.  The pin's in the front on 16.  You hit it behind the hole, it's a quick putt.   
And like I said, 17's a great pin.  I mean, anywhere on the green is going to be a good two-putt to there.   
And 18, the pin's all the way in the back, so you know, depending on where it comes down to, if one of them has to make a birdie, they've got to get it to the back.  You don't want to hit it over because, if you hit it over, you're going to look like an idiot.  So I think the wind, even though it's helping, is going to be harder.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT