NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
June 5, 2012
Jarret Stoll
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Jarret Stoll. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
JARRET STOLL:   We have a lot of pride in this organization.   We had a lot of fun here.   It's a great place to play.   They treat us very, very well.   It's hard not to want to win for people that treat you well and have that kind of confidence in you. 
This city deserves it.   They won a lot of championships in this building here.   I think it's time for the Kings to have one. 

Q.   The '88 Oilers were 16‑2.   You have a chance to be 16‑2.   Compare and contrast the two teams. 
JARRET STOLL:   It's a lot different hockey now. 

Q.   Do you remember who was on that team?
JARRET STOLL:   I have some memories.   They had a great group there for a lot of years.   Hopefully we can keep a lot of these parts here, go forward. 
But at the same time it's a tough road, a tough mountain to get to. 

Q.   Does it make sense that this team can be equated with a team that won five of seven?
JARRET STOLL:   You never know.   It's just the way it goes.   You ride your confidence as far as you can take it.   You ride your play, you ride your goaltender, you ride your guys that are going.   We got everybody going.   That's probably the best thing about our team, we're a team. 
If you are going to beat us, you have to come through a lot of us to beat us.   That's the way we feel.   That's the way we're playing.   One more to go.

Q.   What kind of hope do you give to 8 seeds everywhere?
JARRET STOLL:   Nowadays you might see lower seeds getting further in the playoffs.   The league is so good, there are so many good teams.   Those seeds don't mean much besides home ice now. 

Q.   That's meant a lot. 
JARRET STOLL:   True.   I truly believe that.   It means a lot regular‑season‑wise, to go through, have a great regular season.   Once the playoffs start, it's a new ballgame.   Anything's possible.   We've seen that.   We'll continue to see that. 

Q.   3‑0 lead, seems natural it's difficult to keep that hunger.   Is that a challenge tomorrow?
JARRET STOLL:   Shouldn't be at all. 

Q.   It's the only challenge you have faced in games. 
JARRET STOLL:   We'll be ready.   There's a lot at the end there to look forward to hopefully if we play the right way.   I'm sure we'll talk a lot about it the next day and a half, two days, to get ready, making sure we're playing the right way, having the right attitude, mindset. 
Can't get too excited, look too far ahead.   Like I said earlier, you have to stay in the moment and play the game. 

Q.   How similar or how different is the talent level here, the skill level, the atmosphere in the dressing room than 2006 with Edmonton?
JARRET STOLL:   When you win, a lot of things are similar.   But I think we weren't expected to do much that playoff year.   To go through the teams we went through, Detroit, San Jose, Anaheim, it was a special run.   Being in Canada, it's a little bit different, too. 
It's great.   It's a lot of fun.   You care so much about your teammates.   You work so hard for your teammates.   At the end of every win, every playoff win, it's such a gratifying feeling to sit in your stall.   You're exhausted.   You lost eight to ten pounds, whatever the case may be.   You have that win under your belt, looking forward to the next game. 

Q.   How different was it in Canada? 
JARRET STOLL:   Well, I was from pretty close to Edmonton.   Having family and friends always around.   Everywhere you go in Canada for hockey, you're like movie stars.   Like here in L.A., so to speak, hopefully we're changing that a little bit down here.

Q.   Any moment you look to in these playoffs?
JARRET STOLL:   The game in St.Louis to start the series.   I remember the sequence there from the bench.   Had a couple big saves back there.   That first game, St.Louis, really came out.   We knew they'd come out with a big push, they did.   Quick was there for us.   Kept the game 0‑0 for a while.   We found a way to get the lead and go from there.   He's been great every round.   But definitely against St.Louis in Game1 he was huge.

Q.   Can you describe what it's like to be sitting on a bench and watch him do, and the team do, unbelievable things?
JARRET STOLL:   It's normal now, what we expect of him.   I'm sure that's what he expects of himself every night, if not to get better every game. 

Q.   Are you constantly shaking your heads?
JARRET STOLL:   Sometimes.   That's Quickie now.   He's playing on another planet.   That's what he expects.   He's a very hard guy on himself, as we all are.   As a team, too, we want to get better every game.   Quickie, he wants to try to get better every game. 

Q.   How do you draw on '06?
JARRET STOLL:   Can't get ahead of yourselves.   You got to stick with the plan, stick with the program, and hopefully it will work out. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT