NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: OILERS v HURRICANES
June 16, 2006
Fernando Pisani
Jarret Stoll
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Anything else that can be done to -- just like Mike Keenan used to say, "When we get a power play in the game, that's what we want."   
 JARRET STOLL:  I think there's a lot of positives from last game on our power play.  You can see we were moving the puck with -- I think moving it quickly is the best way to describe it.   
 Good passes, stuff like that that can beat their good pressure.  Only got the one goal, but I think we were a lot better now on the power play.  We can definitely take momentum and positives out of that power play into Game 6.   
  
  Q.  Talk about how loose a team you guys are in practice today?  Having fun?   
 JARRET STOLL:  I described it before Game 5 is -- we were just very loose, team having fun, just freewheeling out there.  I don't know how that's happening when we are down 3-1 in the series before that game, but we were.   
 That's when we play our best hockey.  We have a lot of fun together.  Great group of guys.  Is it coming down to, hopefully, the last two games of the season.  Just a great time of year.  We're just a loose group.  Always have been.  It was a tough time down the stretch making the Playoffs where we were a little uptight.   
 Other than that, we play our best hockey when we're loose like that.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel like after that last game as a group you got mojo back?  Sort of like that was the kind of game you needed?   
 JARRET STOLL:  Offensively I think it was definitely a couple of steps forward in that department.  We have to get to Ward.  We found a way to do it.  Got more pucks to the net, more bodies to the net.  I think what was even more important was getting tips that first goal.  Fernie set an example with some tips.   
 There were a number of other opportunities for deflections in front, rebounds in front, which is how we're going to score goals.  You have got to go to those tough areas.  We did a much better job of that in Game 5.   
 Hopefully, we can continue with that in Game 6.   
  
  Q.  Fernando, what has it been like the last day and a half coming home after that goal?  Friends relatives?   
 FERNANDO PISANI:  Everybody has been pretty excited and happy for me.  It's good, good.  Happy the team won.   
  
  Q.  Could you tell me more about the interactions?   
 FERNANDO PISANI:  People are happy.  At the same time, we still have a big game tomorrow.  That's kind of in the past.  We kind of have to look forward.   
  
  Q.  What was it like for you flying back here?  Very exciting time.  I know you are trying to keep it team oriented.   
 FERNANDO PISANI:  It was definitely an exciting time, exciting moment.  You couldn't ask for a better scenario, better situation there to score.  I am glad I capitalized.  Like I said, we're kind of focusing on Saturday now.  Kind of moving now.   
  
  Q.  Talk about your line.  You guys seemed to develop a nice chemistry and got the ability to get all kind of --   
 FERNANDO PISANI:  We have a good mix.  Raffi goes out there and bangs and creates a lot of space for Pecs and I.  Pecs is such a smart, intelligent player.  Reads the ice very well, never gets caught out of position defensively.  So that's huge for us.   
 We're working the puck down low and getting everything to the net.   
  
  Q.  Seems like all three of you are playing the best hockey of the season right now.  That's a good mix?   
 FERNANDO PISANI:  Definitely.  I think this time you always want to play your best hockey.  You don't want leave anything to chance.  I thought we played well this whole Playoffs, and we want to continue in the next two games.   
  
  Q.  Nice to be relied on so heavily for all sorts of different things?   
 FERNANDO PISANI:  It's good that coach has confidence in us in many situations on the ice.  We're out there on the power play and penalty kill, and we're doing a good job defensively when we're out there as a unit.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT