NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
May 25, 2014
Jarret Stoll
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Jarret Stoll. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
JARRET STOLL:   Every game is its own little deal.   You have to try to come out and play well and win. 
You see little things going on in the series now that hopefully we can keep pushing and pulling the right way.   We want to frustrate them.   We want to be in their face smart.   Still taking too many penalties for our liking.   Try to get those down. 
It's no secret when you got a lead on a team in a series, you want to keep pushing.   We all know what can happen with momentum, especially in this playoffs. 

Q.   You were brought over at the beginning of the rebuilding process.   From then to now, was it a steady rise in the structure of the identity and culture?
JARRET STOLL:   I think making the playoffs is the first step.   They had a great core here.   A lot of those guys are still here.   Great draft picks, building through the draft. 
It's not easy to make it the playoffs.   We know that now.   It's a long season, a long grind.   Those first two seasons that we lost in the first round, we lost to Vancouver I think and we lost to San Jose.   I think we learned a lot in those series.   We were close.   The one round against San Jose we didn't have Kopy.   I think we learned a lot in those two seasons. 
In '12, everything went our way, bounces, the play, our goaltender, everything was kind of on our side.   Sometimes you learn quick, sometimes you don't.   Sometimes it takes a little while.   I think it was a little bit of both with this team.   Just great trades, great little additions here and there. 
Once you get a taste of winning a playoff series, winning a couple, winning a championship, it's not underrated how hard it is, everyone knows it's hard, but the things you can learn from those runs is endless what you can learn from different series, winning a championship. 

Q.   Does the style of play change as the series goes on? 
JARRET STOLL:   No, no, I don't think so.   We looked at film already this morning on some things we got to do better, especially in the first period, the way they came at us. 
No, you got to play whatever style of game is your game.   They have their style.   They're going to for sure try to come out and play that way in Game4.   We have to limit our mistakes and manage the puck, do all those things, be disciplined, be aggressive, be on our toes, which I thought we were more so as the second and third periods went on.   Therefore we got some goals and the lead and got the win. 

Q.   Four penalties on your side and three on their side is not excessive.   What is the optimum number?   Difficult line to walk. 
JARRET STOLL:   You have to be on that edge.   Probably two or three is the number.   The type of penalties, too, you got to look at that.   Too many men.   High sticks.   Stuff like that, we can't be taking.   We know that. 
Yeah, maybe it's not many.   But it's the types of penalties, maybe the time of the game.   Yeah, the way we want to play, we want to play physical, heavy and hard, on the edge.   Just walk that line, I guess. 

Q.   Talk about your penalty killing and how good you are. 
JARRET STOLL:   Yeah, we're getting back to a little bit of being confident with each other, doing those little things, what it takes to kill one off at important times.   Even go through a penalty kill where we're not giving up any shots, which is key, up‑ice pressure, reading off our defensemen, our defensemen reading off our forwards, getting some shot blocks and big saves.   You need saves.   It all works together to kill a penalty. 
It's hard work.   It's using your head out there.   Yeah, we had some big kills the past couple of games.   We got to continue to do that.   It can win you a series.   It can lose you a series.   I think we've picked it up and we've been better.   We're going to need that. 

Q.   How much of a luxury is it to be able to spread out the ice team amongst the forwards?
JARRET STOLL:   It's very important, I think.   For a while now we just can roll four lines.   I think all four lines can play against any line really.   I know Darryl probably feels that way as well. 
There's been a lot of games where our four lines have been around 15, 17 minutes.   Your pace of play has to be high.   It should be.   That's how we want to play.   We don't want to have dips in our play.   We want to keep our play high, the speed of the game. 
Once that third period comes, when it's tough hockey in the third period, we still got some gas, some jump to play the way we want to play. 

Q.   Darryl doesn't want to play a matchup game.   Tactically does that help you guys not having to shift? 
JARRET STOLL:   Yeah, that could be difficult.   Darryl, since he's been here, he's not that kind of a tight, tight matchup guy.   He trusts his players to play against anybody.   He demands it.   I think as a player you want that.   You want to have that on your shoulders, to know you can play against anybody and do the job.   We know we can. 

Q.   On the penalty kill, when you know a team is struggling, does it allow you to do different things, take advantage of a team that maybe is pressing? 
JARRET STOLL:   You don't want to think about them too much.   You want to do whatever is within your penalty killing unit to do, be aggressive ‑ maybe even more aggressive in that situation, if their confidence isn't that high in the power play. 
Be smart, too, because they have dangerous players with a lot of skill.   You don't want to be overaggressive because it opens other things up. 
Probably a little bit of both.   We have to be smart, keep our confidence high on the kill, other parts of the game as well. 

Q.   With the momentum you have, do you feel you'll be in good shape if you continue to play like you have been?
JARRET STOLL:   You can always be a little better with managing the puck, penalties.   I think we need a better start in Game4 than we had in Game3. 
Yeah, just that aggressive style, in their face, trying to frustrate them, try to let them know it will be a tough game.   If we start with the puck, they're going to have to come through us 200 feet to beat us.   Have that attitude and mindset. 
Yeah, we feel good about our game.   We know we can do better in Game4.   We know we can bring it.   In front of our home crowd, we got to take advantage of this opportunity. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT