NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
June 6, 2013
Jarret Stoll
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Are you comfortable up on the top line?
JARRET STOLL:   I don't know what you consider top lines or what.   Whoever you're playing with, try to be good, create chances, try to be a plus player, just keep it simple.   Play your game. 
They're both guys that like to get on the forecheck, cause havoc.   Both guys that work hard and smart.   Big‑game players, too.   Just do a job in the defensive zone, get them the puck wide, spend some time in the offensive zone.

Q.   Your reaction to the suspension?
JARRET STOLL:   Whatever.   He's a big piece of their team.   We got to take advantage of that and play the right way. 
They're going to have somebody step in, you know, do the job for them.   That's what depth is all about.   That's what playoffs are all about.   We can't worry about that.   We have to worry about our own game. 
That's the way it is.   Shanahan and the NHL, that's their call.   So be it.   We'll live with it, they'll live with it, we'll play the game. 

Q.   How do you take advantage of that?
JARRET STOLL:   Well, there's 28, 30 minutes there that got to go somewhere else, spread out throughout their six guys.   Maybe Seabrook will take some more minutes.   I'm sure that Leddy will play some more minutes. 
Got to have the same mindset to get on these guys, be hard on them, physical on them, make it a tough game for them, every situation on the ice. 
Might not go our way in the first period or second period, but if we keep with it, by the third period, if the game goes to overtime, whatever the case may be, they'll be feeling it.

Q.   Did you see the Campbell play last night?
JARRET STOLL:   Yes.

Q.   When you see a play like that... 
JARRET STOLL:   He's a great penalty killer.   He's a great team guy.   You don't see a lot of guys block shots laying down anymore.   Usually guys are in the lane. 
Unfortunate he broke his leg.   That's what it's all about.   They're going to have to have another guy step in and do the job for them, too.   It's no different on any team. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT