FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 13, 1999
Phil Cannon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PHIL CANNON:  We'll be running a bare-bones tournament.  Spectators that want to come out will be invited to come out.  There will not being any checking of checking of tickets at the gates.  Our hospitality customers, we're basically through with all of our VIP entertaining on the golf course and the sky boxes and hospitality tents.  With the large amounts of volunteers that it takes to run those venues, we feel it's best to just run a bare-bones tournament tomorrow.  Concession stands will be open; that type of thing.  But as far as parking, Lot E is it is still usable.  We're asking everyone to go to the Agri Lot, except volunteers.  We're asking volunteers to go to our new parking lot off Winchester, which in the tournament vernacular is Lot C.  So volunteers go to Lot C.  Everyone else will go to Agricenter.  You guys in the media that have Lot A passes, of course, will be allowed in Lot A, and we'll have to talk about Lot B with you after this is over.


Q.  Just because you mentioned parking, and I think of the cars we saw submerged, what can the tournament do?

PHIL CANNON:  Our insurance adjustors have been contacted, and they will be working with the owners of those cars to subjugate liability, as in any kinds of natural disaster like this, which is basically what we've had today.  We've had an act of God.  And those private owners of the vehicles will be contacting their insurance people, and we'll be contacting our insurance people.


Q.  So that's something that's written in your insurance policy?  Obviously, you know, it can rain on the golf course and you can have a flood.

PHIL CANNON:  We have general liability policies to cover various issues associated with running a public event.  I'm not privy to every one of them.  That was, of course, one of the first things we thought of.  We have an emergency contact list, and part of that emergency contact list is our risk management committee, which is our insurance adjustors and brokers; so, they were contacted and we'll be  handling that first thing in the morning.


Q.  Do you know how many cars were affected and whether there are any other liability situations related?

PHIL CANNON:  I don't know how many cars are affected.  I heard five to six with water up to their windshields.  You probably saw it on TV better than I did.  I don't know of any other liability issues.


Q.  Any idea how long the crews are going to have to work tonight?  Have you gotten any indication from anybody?

PHIL CANNON:  Well, until 11:00, we'll have dry light, and then we're working with flood lights and just a normal night.  I know he needs at least two hours to get the golf course ready.  Our crews will be working for those areas outside the ropes trying to get them as use usable as possible.  The TOUR representatives tell us that on a Monday situation like this, you can expect 2- or 3,000 people, and we're used to dealing with ten times that many.  So we'll be taking the necessary steps to make everybody as comfortable as possible tomorrow.


Q.  I also asked Arvin:  How difficult is this for tournament officials?

PHIL CANNON:  I was looking forward to sleeping late in the morning; I can tell you that much.  One other consideration, FedEx has a big VIP outing scheduled here tomorrow, and their contingency plan was to move it to Wednesday; so they are putting that into place.


Q.  Are there any kind of plans, the charter that had been arranged for the players to get to Pinehurst, is there anything that FedEx or somebody might do to get a whole bunch of them up there?

PHIL CANNON:  PGA TOUR has a travel representative on site, and I'm sure he's the busiest man on campus right now, trying to rearrange some issues there.  We'll be working with Northwest to see what kinds of rebates we can get on a prepaid charter.  It's low five-figures charter expense that we were hoping to recoup with sales of tickets on the  charter.


Q.  FedEx charter is not going to run tomorrow?

PHIL CANNON:  The golf tournament charter, I'm not sure.  I'll try and find out and get back to you.  We dodged a lot of bullets all week.  You would look at things on that radar; things would just blossom up west of us and south of us, and by some miracle, they kept dissipating almost as soon as they hit the Mississippi and Tennessee border.  Six out of seven ain't bad.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT