NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: DEVILS v RANGERS
May 23, 2012
John Tortorella
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Coach Tortorella.   
   
 Q.   It goes without saying the press goes right back in tonight.   
COACH TORTORELLA:   Yes.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like offensively your forwards need some kind of, if you were to shake them up lineup‑wise, they could use something like that to get a jolt?  
COACH TORTORELLA:   Are you asking me about the lineup?   
   
 Q.   Not specific.   
COACH TORTORELLA:   We need something to happen for ourselves.   We'll try different things.   I'll give you that.   
But it's still a matter of just getting it done.   At least that's the way I feel about it.   So we'll see where it goes.   
   
 Q.   Would it be fair to say that your top offensive players have played their best in the biggest games?   Does that give you more confidence that people will be able to come through?  
COACH TORTORELLA:   I have total confidence in our players.   Again, this isn't a new experience for us as we go into tonight's game.   So I have total confidence.   
I know I used that word 'pray' yesterday.   It was a joke.   There are a lot more important things to pray about than a win or a goal.   So can I clear that up, please (laughter)?   
To answer your question, I have total confidence in our guys.   Again, it's a great opportunity for us and I'm looking forward to it.  
   
 Q.   Early in the playoffs someone asked you about the first 10 minutes of the game.   You said, No more important than the last 50.   Your guys talk a lot about a good start.   How much focus do you put on that?  
COACH TORTORELLA:   We do need a good one.   Again, when we start talking about a must game or a must start, I don't like going there.   What happens if something doesn't happen right for you, we just throw the last 50 minutes away?   
There's no question Jersey right on through the playoffs, not just our series, they have blitzed teams and gained momentum.   Momentum is a big part of playoff hockey.   There's no question we like to get that on our side right away.   
   
 Q.   Do you need to change the way you try to motivate the guys at this point or they don't need any?  
COACH TORTORELLA:   No.   I read a couple articles about sending a message to a player.   
This time of year, with Gaby or Brian Boyle, it's not sending messages, it's not going in there and giving your big speech.   I have too much respect for the hockey club.   They don't need that.   This team wouldn't be where it's at if they didn't know how to handle these situations.   
This time of year, a coach needs to be with them, not at them.   So, again, it goes right back to the last question.   I have total confidence in how our team will present themselves tonight and try to find a way to win one hockey game.   
   
 Q.   How is Del Zotto today?  
COACH TORTORELLA:   That's something personal.   I'm not going to discuss that with you.   Michael Del Zotto will be fine tonight, though.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT