NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: DEVILS v RANGERS
May 22, 2012
John Tortorella
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   The players talked about the opportunity in front of them.   Did you embrace this challenge as well going forward, three left?  
COACH TORTORELLA:   Absolutely.   I mean, we're one of four teams still playing.   
   
 Q.   In this series you got three goals from Kreider, an empty‑netter from Callahan.   The rest of your top six hasn't been able to get a goal.   What can you do to get those guys going?  
COACH TORTORELLA:   Pray.   I don't know what else to tell you.   We're going to keep on trying to play, pray, and hopefully something good happens to them.   
   
 Q.   This is a team that hasn't been able to jump ahead.   We know that.   It's always been a team that hasn't‑‑ that's always answered the bell at the end of the series.   What's the line between that, not being able to win Game 2 or win last night, being able to bounce back?  
COACH TORTORELLA:   It defines our team.   I think we have been, through the year, the regular season, through the Playoffs, our resiliency.   You have to remember when we're trying to win two in a row, there's also a team trying not to lose two in a row, and it's a pretty good team at this stage of the season.   
So, again, like I said last night, I am‑‑ I feel really good about our approach today and how we're going to go about our business tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Are there parts of your offensive game you're happy with and other parts you're not?   You have‑‑ Hagelin seemed to generate chances but just can't get on the board.   
COACH TORTORELLA:   I think the series right now is that we're simply not‑‑ we don't have the puck enough.   Jersey has the puck a lot more minutes than we do.   I think that's something we need to try to change.  
   
 Q.   Does that start on your end, getting down on your end and breaking...  
COACH TORTORELLA:   It's a combination of a number of things.   It's getting out of your end clean.   It's holding on to pucks in their end when they have opportunities.   It comes just within your play.   So there's no one particular thing.   But it has been a series so far of them having the puck a lot more than we have.   And that's what we're going to try to change.  
   
 Q.   Is that tactical or is it execution?   
COACH TORTORELLA:   I think it's both, tactical, execution, willingness.   All sorts of things come into play as far as territory and puck possession.   And it's just a simple fact.   We need to get better at it.  
   
 Q.   All season long, you had a goalie who is so into himself he doesn't really care what the score is, how many goals you guys get.   How much does that help you guys when Lundqvist is just into himself and he doesn't worry if you guys are going to score three in a game or two in a game?   What does that do for you guys and for you as a coach to know that he's just‑‑ he's doing his own thing?  
COACH TORTORELLA:   He better.   That's his job.   True.   I don't know what you're asking me.   You've asked me a couple of screwy questions here the past couple of days.   I just don't know how to answer that.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about liking what you saw today.   What were you looking for as an indicator that your guys had...  
COACH TORTORELLA:   Move by it.   Move by it.   You need to have a short‑term memory.   All coaches talk about it.   In Playoffs, it's a whole different mindset as far as preparation in the regular season.   And I think our meetings were good today.   I think our practice had some jump.   I just like watching the attitude of players.   I think they're looking forward to playing their next game.   As all of them are this time of year.   They don't want to spend too much time waiting around.   They want to play.   I felt we had a really good day today.  
   
 Q.   As a follow‑up, when you do your film work, how much do you show, like last night...  
COACH TORTORELLA:   None.   None today.   No film today.   
   
 Q.   Are you being encouraged by Zuc and Dubie's progress, the fact they're skating?  
COACH TORTORELLA:   I have no update.  
   
 Q.   But they were skating?  
COACH TORTORELLA:   Yes, they were skating.   I have no update.   I haven't talked to Rammer.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT