NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLAMES v LIGHTNING
June 5, 2004
John Tortorella
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  At what point does the media get to have breakfast with your team tomorrow and where and when is it, what are we having?   
 JOHN TORTORELLA: I don't know.  I don't know.  We'll get our rest.  (Smiles).   
  Q.  Did you see any evidence of the things you talked about yesterday, being an influence on the game, tightness, anything in the Flames play at all?   
 JOHN TORTORELLA: Words from coaches don't win or lose hockey games.  I thought both teams played hard.  And you look for a big play, Calgary is looking for a big play.  We're looking for a big play.  We're fortunate that we get one at the end.  Nik makes a big save on Gelinas there and all you could ask for as a coach that your team continue to play hard and try to find a way and hope a big play comes your way and we were fortunate tonight to get that one.   
  Q.  One word, "resilient," has described your team.  What does this team need to do to win back-to-back?   
 JOHN TORTORELLA: Win.  I don't know how you want me to answer that.  Both teams will get their rest and we'll go at it again.  It's been a hell of a series.  Again, both teams are here for a reason and I think both teams have showed that.  I think it is a pretty good /TP*EUT now we have a Game 7.   
  Q.  You challenged your big named players to step up in this series.  How satisfying was it to see Marty step up in that third overtime?   
 JOHN TORTORELLA: It's a big play by Marty.  They were working him pretty good throughout the game.  Again, we just couldn't get him consistently offensively but he makes a big play.  It's not me challenging the players.  If my players don't understand the lay of the land right now, we won't be here.  This is about the players.  This isn't about any challenge.  It isn't about words.  It's the players understanding the lay of the land and what they need to do to win.  So see, I think the coaches are out of the equation.  I think it's about the players.  When you get to a Game 7 it's even more about them.  That's what it should be because you have two teams that have worked their asses off here.   
  Q.  Assuming you weren't just saying this stuff yesterday for effect  --   
 JOHN TORTORELLA: You're really working on that.   
  Q.  I am asking you if you think that there's any chance that your team facing all the same things now tomorrow could be in some way bothered by it?   
 JOHN TORTORELLA: No, Game 7s, it's a great  -- it will be a great experience.  Game 7 in a Final, this is an opportunity of a lifetime for players.  We're not going to tiptoe, we're going to drive in.   
  Q.  Boyle was talking about how he's hardest on himself and he was obviously upset after that play, but he wants to make a difference in Game 7.  Can you talk about, describe how he rebounds after making mistakes like that because he takes so many chances?   
 JOHN TORTORELLA: Yeah, Dany, that's the way we want him to play.  He's an instinctive player.  We want him to take chances.  We really tried to work with our offense not to try to back pucks down, just to skate back for them.  It ends up being a pretty big goal at that time.  It is from trying.  If your player is making mistakes through lack of effort that's when you have a major problem.  Dany is one of our hardest competitors in a small man.  For us to be the team that we are, he needs to be a big part of it.  He will be ready to go.  He's hard on himself.  He's a thinker.  We have tried to relax him and not think so much.  I think it will be a nice situation for him come Monday.   
  Q.  After the first overtime, can you talk about the relief you felt the second overtime when you saw that red light go on, what was it like behind the bench?   
 JOHN TORTORELLA: I mean, you work so hard and you are trying to crawl back into a series so everybody was pretty happy.  Be honest with you I was surprised it happened so quick.  I thought we were in for a long night.  Both teams were checking really hard.  You never know.  Culli makes a good pinch, it's turned over and Tails just throws the puck to the net.  So you never know what happens in a hockey game.  You map out things, but it comes down to big plays and maybe a mistake from another team.  So we were fortunate tonight.  Now we go to Game 7.  Thank you.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT