NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLAMES v LIGHTNING
June 4, 2004
John Tortorella
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  After last night's game your players were upset because of the loss, but for another reasons too they said that they are upset because they are playing like the Flames and they are not playing like the Lightning right now.  Do you think it's --   
 JOHN TORTORELLA: I am not going to analyze last night's game.  We have already gone on to Game 6 here.  We will analyze it as a team, not here.   
  Q.  You obviously decided that option wasn't going to get it done today; can you explain why?   
 JOHN TORTORELLA: No.  It has nothing to do with after a long flight like that.  I think the players  -- in fact, couple of them came to me, they wanted to really go on as far as to move the blood.  And just I mean sitting on that plane for five hours, it's a good thing they will feel much better tomorrow, their legs will be much better tomorrow.   
  Q.  It looks like the mood -- a lot of times during some of those skates you see some of the guys joking; didn't look like that out there.  Was anything said to them?  Did they just realize, looked kind of serious, focused out there?   
 JOHN TORTORELLA: No, they are  -- pressure is not on us right now.  It's on the Calgary team.  You got all of Canada here waiting for them to win tomorrow.  The Cup is in the building.  So as far as the pressure, they are supposed to win right now.  We're going to go out, always our mindset is to win one 60-minute hockey game.  We're trying to extend the series.  They are supposed to win.  They are making the calls to all the relatives to come in here, watch the game and win the game, Hockey Night in Canada is going to be on.  It's everybody's dream, a final game.  All the things that come with it, the pressure is there.   
 There's no pressure on this hockey team with Tampa.  We're just going to go out and find our way just to extend the series.  That's the only thought that we have on our mind.  As far as Calgary is concerned, I am sure there's a number of things going through their mind.  You always anticipate what will happen when you win it.  And so we're going to go about our business.  They are supposed to win it now.  So we're just going to go about our business and try to extend the series.   
  Q.  Last night you referenced that your top players have to be their best players.  Lecavalier obviously comes to mind after his top performance in Game 2.  Do you expect  -- what do you expect of him?  Do you expect performance like that again?   
 JOHN TORTORELLA: Like I said, I am not analyzing my players with you guys; I will analyze it with them.   
  Q.  For this game, what is more important; game planning, deciding on lines or just getting maximum effort from your players?   
 JOHN TORTORELLA: Any time during the Playoffs I think it gets a bit overrated as far as the X's and O's.  It's a matter of the battles, the battles and I think that's what determines quite a few of the opportunities you get to try to win a hockey game.  Battles are a very important part of this and that's the key thing.   
  Q.  This situation resembles a lot of Game 6 and Game 7 of the last series.  Disappointing loss leading into a must-win game.  Can you build off of that positive experience now going into tomorrow?   
 JOHN TORTORELLA: We're fine.  Like  -- our itinerary is after Game 6 we are going to stay here on Sunday to travel.  We feel the best thing for us is to stay here, not travel after Game 6, so you get your maximum rest, the right rest.  We will be having breakfast with you here Sunday.  We'll be having breakfast here Sunday and then we will get on to Game 7.   
  Q.  I don't know if this gets into critiquing players  --   
 JOHN TORTORELLA: Probably does.   
  Q.  Seems like as the series has gone on, the respect for Iginla has been maybe over the top.  He's getting a lot of room.  Guys are backing off.  Is that just discretion or would you rather guys be in his face and taking time and space  --   
 JOHN TORTORELLA: No, I  -- listen, I won't disrespect some of the top players in this League, he's a hell of a hockey player.  I think you have to give him a little bit of credit also in the type of player he is.  I am not going to get into any of that stuff there; he's a hell of a hockey player, we know that.  He's a big part of their team.  But I think for  -- at times we have done a pretty good job but you also have to give the player a little credit for making some big plays.  That's why Calgary is here and that's why we're here, some of our big players making big plays.  That's what it comes down to, who is going to make more big plays at key times.  That's what we plan to try to do in Game 6.   
  Q.  Just from your comments a few minutes ago is that a guarantee for a win tomorrow night for?   
 JOHN TORTORELLA: Looking for a headline?   
  Q.  If you want to give me one.   
 JOHN TORTORELLA: I am not too interested  -- I am just telling you we feel good.  This team feels good about our chances here and again, I am anxious to see how Calgary responds to some of the things you have to do in an elimination game in your building and all of Canada watching and again, they are supposed to win right now.  That's a tough thing.  That's a tough thing.  I am anxious to see how they respond.   
  Q.  If you feel good going into this game, did you not feel good going into Game 5?   
 JOHN TORTORELLA: Felt great.  Felt fantastic.   
  Q.  So why do you believe you are going to play better tomorrow night than you did last night?   
 JOHN TORTORELLA: You are telling me to look into a crystal ball.  Is that not what you are asking me?   
  Q.  That's sort of what you are telling us, though.   
 JOHN TORTORELLA: You always have a feel for your team.  I think for some reason when a team struggles a bit, you don't think they are trying.  I will tell you right now my players last night didn't have a mindset we're not going to go out  -- we're going to go out there and not try.  I think you know them better than that.  I guess I will touch upon this to try to explain it to you.  I think you end up getting -- you anticipate what is going to happen getting closer to that Cup.  And I think that was part of our problem a little bit, we  -- I am not the sure if nervous is the right word, but you start anticipating.  Calgary is going to do that tomorrow.  They will do that tomorrow.  They are going to start thinking about, what do you call it, the Red Sea or the Red  -- the Red Mile.  Is that how you call it Red Mile.  That's going to be going through their heads.  I am sure their players are you know, distant cousins, brothers, sisters, all coming in and rightfully so, this is a big thing.  But you end up anticipating what it's going to be when it's done and I think we went through a little bit of that ourselves last night in our home building.  It's a tough thing to do.  Now tomorrow night, it's an elimination game in your home building, it's an interesting mental thing that goes on.  I think we struggled with that a little bit last night.  Does that answer your question?   
  Q.  Yes.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT