NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLAMES v LIGHTNING
June 3, 2004
John Tortorella
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Just bouncing back up in Calgary there Saturday night, you guys won there already.  Is that a positive to take from this one tonight?   
 COACH TORTORELLA:  Only thing you can do.  Go win the next one.   
  Q.  Other than the obvious being the overtime goal, what was the difference tonight as far as you're concerned?   
 COACH TORTORELLA:  You are not going to win a Game 5 in the Finals playing a 40 minutes like we played tonight.  You simply  -- simply comes back and grabs you.  We battled back in the third period.  We found our game finally in the third period after we scored the goal.  I thought we played a pretty decent overtime.  But it's simply comes back and bites you in the ass, when a team simply wins all the battles in the first 40, quicker team, it comes back and grabs you, so having said that, now we have got to go back there and grab one in their building, get this to a 7.   
  Q.  Are you surprised that this game was as wide open as it was, that there were chances at both ends the way it was, and that you weren't able to dominate a game like that, which should really suit your team better?   
 COACH TORTORELLA:  Yeah, well again, if Martin Cibak, Chris Dingman and Ben Clymer is your best line, it's simply not going to happen for you, no offense to them, first 40 minutes, and again we lose the game with 20 people here, and you always talk about your best players, yes, your best players need to be your best players, they weren't there, but along with everyone else, too.  We'll eat this one as a group of 20, and we'll get in the plane tomorrow and go out there and try to force this to a Game 7.   
  Q.  The winning goals seemed to be three versus two down there.  Was there something?  Were you caught in a change?   
 COACH TORTORELLA:  No, it is a turnover neutral zone and they ram it down our throat.   
  Q.  Talk a little bit about the play of Khabibulin tonight?   
 COACH TORTORELLA:  I am not critiquing players up here with you guys.  Talk about the team.  I am not going to talk about individuals.   
  Q.  Do you expect to be back here Monday night?   
 COACH TORTORELLA:  Yes, we will.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT