NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLAMES v LIGHTNING
May 29, 2004
John Tortorella
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  It seemed to vacillate on how tough the officiating was in terms of what was a penalty and was not.  The Donovan play, would you might have argued for a dive rather than a hooking or holding call?   
 COACH TORTORELLA:  I don't know, Jimmy.  No sense of me talking about it.   
  Q.  The hit on Fedotenko, did you think it was dirty?   
 COACH TORTORELLA:  Let's talk about the game.  I am not going to talk about penalties and all that stuff.  I will be more than happy to answer any other questions.   
  Q.  The physical play seemed right from the start to be very, very physical tonight.  Then to have the stars go at it and fight.  I don't remember ever seeing that in the Finals.  Was it a different game than it was back in Tampa?   
 COACH TORTORELLA:  I don't know.  I mean, that's part of the game, two of the best players going at it.  Nothing a matter with that.  As far as the physical part, again, that's part of the game.  I think we're getting too hyped up about the physical play.  We know they are a physical team.  We need to respond physically, and that's all part of playoff hockey.   
  Q.  What about the fight with Jarome and Lecavalier, what were your thoughts on that?   
 COACH TORTORELLA:  It was a fight.   
  Q.  It was early, did it set the tone at all?   
 COACH TORTORELLA:  They decided to fight, so they fought.  I don't know how you want me to comment on that.   
  Q.  What about the shorthanded scoring chance?  Did you see that as the pivotal moment of the game?   
 COACH TORTORELLA:  Well, I thought the turnaround of the game was when we win an offensive faceoff 5 on 5, we turn it over.  We end up taking a penalty, and they end up scoring on that power play, and prior to that we had a couple of chances that Kiprusoff made a couple of good saves on.  But the penalty that we took, Luk took the penalty off of one draw and it ends up in our net.  Sid falls flat on his ass, then Kuby (Kubina) goes into the corner.  I don't think we were playing that well.  I thought both teams were playing sloppy at times.  I thought that was the turning point.  It comes down to the first goal.  I thought we had chances to get that first goal.  We didn't get it done.  We end up taking a penalty on an offensive one draw.   
  Q.  Over the last couple of series the team has failed to win back-to-back games.  Any concern as you are going  --   
 COACH TORTORELLA:  No, we need to win the next one.  All you can do is just worry about the next game, and so we're looking to try to get the next one.   
  Q.  How do you deal with such the huge shift and momentum from Game 1 to Game 2 to Game 3?   
 COACH TORTORELLA:  It's the way it's been all playoffs for us as far as winning and losing.  That's what happens within the series.  It's a team, again, like we talked about this morning trying to keep the momentum as long as you can.  We didn't tonight.  We had some momentum coming in off of our win and that was our goal, to try to keep the momentum.  I thought we got through a period.  The first period, I thought that was a good sign for us being 0-0, and I don't think our power play worked well.  Then you know, with their first goal after we had a couple of chances, they surged on us a little bit.  So that changed the game there.   
  Q.  How is Fedotenko and what did you think of that hit?   
 COACH TORTORELLA:  I haven't looked at the hit.  I haven't looked at the hit and I haven't had a chance to talk to the trainers as far as Fed, so  -- thank you.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT