NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: FLYERS v LIGHTNING
May 20, 2004
John Tortorella
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  You used your time out in the overtime, did it seem to you that from the third period on that you guys were maybe getting a little fatigued?   
 JOHN TORTORELLA:  No, not fatigued.  I think we were playing not to lose.  I think both teams were tired at that point in time.   
  Q.  Is there a concern going into Game 7, the third period of last game in this game, Philadelphia seemed to outplay your team; is there any concern at all?   
 JOHN TORTORELLA:  No.  You have to look at it as an opportunity.  You don't get a chance to play many Game 7s.  That's the way you have to look at it.  We lost an opportunity tonight.  We have to regroup, wipe it clean and it's a great opportunity to play in a Game 7 situation and we're looking forward to it.   
  Q.  A little bit lost in this whole shuffle of the overtime game is that Lecavalier has stepped up and is scoring big goals, not just numbers but at key times early in the game and second period; can you talk about his play in the past few games?   
 JOHN TORTORELLA:  He's played well.  He's played well both with the puck and without the puck, away from the puck.  He's an important guy.  He's played very well for us.   
  Q.  When you say you think you were playing not to lose, did you think it sort of went with the territory; you're up a goal, it's late and you got very conservative?   
 JOHN TORTORELLA:  Yeah, we ended up on our heels, we ended up on our heels a little bit.  Although throughout the whole game we kept on coming back.  That's what we expect in Game 7.  We'll be there to answer and I think it's just a matter of rebounding.   
  Q.  Are you going to approach this Game 7 any differently than the games you have in the past, just because your youth and even though you guys have won two series, that you guys had wrapped them up pretty much within four or five games; any different approach to Game 7 preparation-wise?   
 JOHN TORTORELLA:   No.  We don't change our approach at all.  In order to try to win a hockey game, we go about our preparation the same way.  It's a matter of winning one game.  So the approach doesn't change.  Again, it's an opportunity.  I think that's the way you have to look at it.  You just don't get a chance to play many Game 7s.  I think it's a great opportunity for our club and we're looking forward to it.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT