AT&T NATIONAL
July 2, 2011
Steve Marino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Any explanation to all the low scores?  
 STEVE MARINO: I think they had to have watered the greens or something last night. They were nice with the pins in some accessible spots. I'm not the only one to shoot a number out there. I don't know what they're going to do tonight, but I don't think they're going to water the greens. I think they might be a little mean tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Have you ever played a course that this has happened, where the records keep coming?  
 STEVE MARINO: You know, it's kind of weird; usually not on a Saturday at an event like this and a course like this. Usually it gets tougher as the week goes on. But it's kind of been opposite this week. I thought the hardest day was Thursday.  
  
  Q. What was your round like, some highlights?   
 STEVE MARINO: I made a bunch of birdies, but a couple of them were two-putts, and I didn't really make any long putts. I hit the ball really good, hit a lot of fairways, hit a lot of really good iron shots and was able to make a lot of eight-, nine-foot putts for birdie.  
  
  Q. Did you think the ball on 17 was going to fall?   
 STEVE MARINO: I did. Actually I wasn't expecting to make that, I was just trying to lag it up there and two-putt. But when it got close to the hole, I thought it was going to go in.  
  
  Q. Did you think a 63 was possible on this course?  
 STEVE MARINO: No, not really. Well, yes, but I didn't think it would be as easy as it seemed today.  
  
  Q. You've had several runner-up finishes. What have you taken out of those?  
 STEVE MARINO: Just patience. You can't get ahead of yourself out there. You've got to play great golf and you've got to have a strong frame of mind and a calm mind in order to win, and if you can do that and you don't win, that's fine, but that's what it takes.   
  
  Q. How do you prepare for tomorrow? I mean, do you go hit the range, take the afternoon off?  
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, I you might hit a couple putts, a couple chips, but I'll just keep doing the same things I've been doing.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT