AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 12, 2011
Steve Marino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE: Steve thanks for joining us for a few minutes after round three of the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am. You said outside a little while ago, it wasn't the ideal round, and you still find yourself in ideal positions heading into the final round, and what you're hoping for and anticipating for tomorrow.
 STEVE MARINO: Today it was kind of a strange round. I drove the ball probably better today than I did any other day, and hit some good iron shots. I had trouble with the pace of the greens. They didn't seem like they were that fast but I kept blowing my putts five, six feet by the hole and had three or four 3-putts today, and just couldn't really get the putter going. 
 So it was a little frustrating, but at the same time I can look back on it and know that I drove the ball well and hit the ball well. I just didn't score today. 

 Q. When you were in here yesterday you said it didn't feel like you had the lead yet, because you still had to go onto another course tomorrow; you got off to a slow start today, did you start checking the leaderboard to see what's going on there? 
 STEVE MARINO: No, not really. I glanced at it a couple of times today. But I really was not paying attention to it. You know, it doesn't really start until we get going tomorrow. Luckily I was in a good position to where I kind of could throw away a few shots and still have something to play with. 
 I didn't really check it out too much today, no. But tomorrow might be a different story. 

 Q. As you say, it doesn't really start until you go into tomorrow, how different is it when it's the final round and you've obviously been in contention a lot; can you sort of just describe how the atmosphere changes, how the whole scene changes for you?
 STEVE MARINO: I think this tournament is going to be a lot different because the first three days, you're playing a different course every day and now you know we have got everybody playing the same course tomorrow. There's not going to be as many amateurs. Although I think I will be playing with my amateur, I don't know who I'm playing with tomorrow, but they might have an amateur, too. 
 But yeah, it's definitely going to be different. You've got -- it's the last day. It's always different no matter what in any tournament. And I'm looking forward to it. It's going to be a lot of fun. 

 Q. How so? Is it tension or nerves what makes it different? 
 STEVE MARINO: It just has a different feel. You know you're not coming back tomorrow. There might be a little bit of tension, a little bit of nerves that you don't feel the first three days. I think that's natural. I think probably anybody would feel that. But yeah, it's just basically, that's it. That's it, it's the last day, and then it's over. 

 Q. Do you feel like you're due?
 STEVE MARINO: I don't know. I felt like I've had the game to win out here for a while. It just has not happened. I'm not going to say that I'm due. But I feel like I'm good enough to win on this tour. 

 Q. You have two seconds?
 STEVE MARINO: Three, I think. 

 Q. Have you ever been in a position where you feel like, this is really my tournament?
 STEVE MARINO: You know, I felt like I had a really good shot at Colonial. I played real well on the back nine there, and I think I just parred every hole and I just could not really get a putt to go in. 
 But I felt like I was, you know, I felt like I was going to win that tournament and it didn't work out for me. 

 Q. Turnberry, have you thought about it at all? You were doing really well, a couple of years ago and you've come a long way since then, you were doing really well with Watson. There you were and you finished with two rough rounds. Did it ever enter your mind in the past 24 hours?
 STEVE MARINO: No. 

 Q. Does it matter at all when you look at the leaderboard, like someone said yesterday, there's not a lot of experience up there, Phil played pretty well today but not many guys in the Top-10 like Phil or Pádraig who have won a bunch of majors. Does that make tomorrow more wide open?
 STEVE MARINO: You know, I'm not really sure. I mean, all of these guys are good. Everybody is good out here. And you know, somebody -- everybody is going to get their experience somewhere, and for some people, it might be tomorrow, you know what I mean.
 Everybody is very, very good. So I'm not going to say experience is overrated, but I think sometimes people kind of play it up to be more than it really is. 

 Q. A different setting tomorrow with the Pro-Am aspect, Bill Murray is going to play in the group ahead of you, with some of his antics, does that add to anything that's going on tomorrow, just that it's not all about the golf; is there still the celebrity element to it? 
 STEVE MARINO: You know, for me, probably not, because I'm not going in that group I don't think. I think if I was in that group, it definitely would be kind of weird. If you're trying to win a tournament, Bill Murray is over there doing his thing, but I guess D.A. has been enjoying it all week. 
 Yeah, I don't know. I'm not really sure. I played last year in I think the third or fourth to last group or something like that on Sunday and there was not really any celebrities around I don't think. 
 So, I don't know, it's going to be -- it's definitely going to be different. So we'll see. We'll see what happens. 

 Q. Do you have the feeling that the idea here is that you have to score in the first sort seven holes or hang on, or birdie holes, the first seven holes?
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, you'd like to get off to a good start 1, 2, 3, a fairly tame start. And then obviously 4, 5 is tough and then you have 6, 7, 8, 9 and then you get into some of the meat of the course out there in the middle.
 Ideally you would like to get off to a good start, but I don't think that's something that people are going to be thinking about when they are out there. Like, oh, I've got to do this, I've got to do that on the first couple or else I'm in trouble. I don't think people would be thinking about that. But in theory, yeah, you should probably score better on the first couple of holes. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 STEVE MARINO: At Pebble? Yeah, I hit a driver and a 3-iron on the green and made about a 12-footer for eagle. 

 Q. Did you know that you were tied for the lead at that point? 
 STEVE MARINO: No. 

 Q. 14 at Pebble, any thought into the club on the tee -- will you approach it any differently?
 STEVE MARINO: I don't think so. I'm probably going to did just the same thing I did on the hole and hopefully make a 4 or a 5 tomorrow, instead of a 6.

 Q. We were talking about how it looks different -- what's it been like with the gallery for the last three days?
 STEVE MARINO: They have been actually pretty big considering we have kind of been away from the celebrities. You know, Pádraig and those Irish guys, they have a bunch of buddies in town and they were out and some college friends from mine were out and they came out today. Plus both of us were playing well so some people wanted to come check us out. They were pretty good, actually. I was kind of surprised. 

 Q. Can you go over your round a little bit, since we didn't see any of it? 
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, I got off to a rough start. Bogeyed 11 and 12. I hit a birdie somewhere. I hit it in the bunker short on 11, made a good up-and-down, 3-putted 12, the par 5. I made a long putt somewhere, 15, for birdie which was nice to see one go in because I had already missed some short putts in the beginning.
 And then just kind of played Steady Eddy for a little bit. Birdied No. 2. Missed some shorty putts for birdie on 3 and 4. And then bogeyed 5. I hit a poor tee shot into a bush, had to take an unplayable and eagled 6. 3-putt 7. Par 8 and hit like four feet on No. 9 and 3-putted for bogey. A nice way to finish. (Laughing).

 Q. Three 3-putts? 
 STEVE MARINO: I think three. I was just really struggling on those greens there. I don't know what was going on. 

 Q. 4-footer at the last; is there any part of you that's thinking about not going --
 STEVE MARINO: No. No. Not really. I was just trying to make it, and I guess I miss-read it or something and then I missed it on the high side and it went three feet by. Just happened to miss that one, too. 
 Yeah, I don't know, I was just struggling out there today on those greens. I just couldn't figure it out. So really it was kind of frustrating. 
 I putted so well the first two days, kind of having a bad putting day was pretty easy to stomach considering I was making a ton of putts the first two days.

 Q. What was your other close call, John Deere? 
 STEVE MARINO: México a couple of years ago, when Brian Gay won. 

 Q. How many college buddies do you have here? 
 STEVE MARINO: Three of them. They don't play golf. One of them, I actually went to high school, elementary school, high school and college with. He lives in San Fran. And then another buddy I went to college also lives in San Fran. And another buddy of mine I went to college with lives in L.A. and he came up. 
 DOUG MILNE: We appreciate your time. Good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT