SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 16, 2011
Steve Marino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Steve, a little short, but you had to really feel pleased with the way you played the back nine. 
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, you know, I didn't make any putts on the front, hit a couple of really bad shots on 9 and 10 and I just hung in there, but Mark was just better today. He played great for 36 holes and he deserves it.

 Q. What is it about this tournament that you like? 
 STEVE MARINO: You know, I don't know. I think maybe I'm real excited to get back playing again. I don't know what it is. It's kind of like Florida golf, which is where I live. I don't know, but I've got a pretty good record here.

 Q. Well, you were knocking at the door. What are you telling yourself as far as when you're going to get over that hump?
 STEVE MARINO: I'm really not worried about it. I had a really good chance today, I just didn't make the putts and hit a couple bad shots at some bad times. But I'm just going to keep plugging along and maybe one day it'll fall my way. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, I think so. I remember being pretty nervous coming here for the first time and then I get paired with Michelle Wie on top of that. I handled it pretty well, and I think that was big for me kind of getting put in a high-profile group like that and being able to perform pretty well, and I made the cut, I think finished 30th or so. That was a big confidence booster for me right off the bat. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, I mean, not really. This course is tough. You've got to play some good golf out here. It's not all peaches and cream. I don't know, I like this place, and I'm looking forward to coming back.

 Q. When is the last time you played 36 holes in competition in one day?
 STEVE MARINO: I have no idea. It's been a while.

 Q. Amateur days?
 STEVE MARINO: No, I think we might have done it at a U.S. Open qualifier. But I was exempt last year, so it would have been two years. It's been a while.

 Q. Seemed like you had a lot of gas in the tank right until the end. If you did get into a playoff you might have felt pretty good about your chances?
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, I feel good right now. Obviously I'm a little tired, my legs are hurting a little bit, but obviously if I would have gotten into a playoff I think the adrenaline would have kicked in and I would have been just fine. 

 Q. Do you feel like a shot or two here or there who knows how it would have turned out?
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, I really screwed up 9 and 10, not making birdie on 9 with 7-iron in my hand and just misjudging the second shot on No. 10 and making bogey there. Those were mistakes that I just wasn't able to come back from.

 Q. In terms of from his perspective, he had kind of that two-shot cushion most of the time. 
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, I mean, he played really, really good, and I could kind of sense that he was playing a little more conservative on the back nine. But still, he hit great shots and made a bunch of pars, and he made great. I felt like if I could get going a little bit, and I did at the end, it was just too little too late.

 Q. Did you feel like that last putt, if you could drain it, who knows?
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, absolutely. I felt like if I could make that putt, he had a tough putt, four- or five-footer straight down the hill, it's tough to see which way it's going to break, so I felt like if I could make that putt, I felt like I would have a pretty good chance of getting into a playoff. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT