SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 15, 2011
Steve Marino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. If you're talking to me, especially after the second round, it must be all right. Good going today, 3-under par.   
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, thanks a lot. I appreciate it. Kind of got off to a slow start like I did yesterday but played good on the back and finished with a good score.  
  
  Q. With no rain coming in for the second round, did the golf course start to change whatsoever while you were out there?   
 STEVE MARINO: You know, it's still playing softer than it normally does. Balls weren't really running through the fairways like they can out here. But I think if we have weather like this over the next -- I mean, I guess we're going to try to finish tomorrow. It could be a little bit different tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Like you said, you got off to a slow start. Is it just this time of the year?   
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, I mean, I guess so. You know, I bogeyed the 10th hole, three-putt, it's like one of the easiest holes on the course. But after that I played well, and hopefully I can get off to a faster start the next two rounds.   
  
  Q. Feels good to see your name atop the leaderboard going into what we'll call the weekend?  
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, absolutely. You never really know how you're playing when you're playing at home until you get out here and play against the best. I feel real good about it.   
  
  Q. You're probably going to have a little bit later tee time tomorrow. What's planned for the rest of the day?  
 STEVE MARINO: We've got some football on today, a couple good games, so that's exactly what I will be doing.  
  
  Q. Who are you picking for today?  
 STEVE MARINO: Atlanta, and I don't know who's going to win that Baltimore/Pittsburgh game. I have no idea.   
  
  Q. You have the clubhouse lead. How do you feel?  
 STEVE MARINO: I feel pretty good. First tournament of the year, it's a great place to be.  
  
  Q. With tomorrow's 36-hole final, does the mindset change heading into tomorrow?   
 STEVE MARINO: You know, I'm just going to try to go out there and keep doing what I've been doing the last couple days, which is staying patient and having fun and enjoying myself and hopefully make some putts out there. It's going to be a long day, so I think patience is going to be key.   
  
  Q. With what this course looked like a couple days ago, how impressed are you with what the staff here has been able to do?  
 STEVE MARINO: I mean, I can't believe it. It was under water on Thursday, and right now you'd have a hard time telling that we had any rain out here. They did an unbelievable job. I can't believe that it's as good as it is.   
  
  Q. Mindset heading into tomorrow's 36-hole final based all on momentum being 36 holes?   
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, yeah, I mean, it'll be important to get off to a good start, but I think most importantly it's going to take a lot of patience. It's going to be a long day out there, so just take it one shot at a time and just be real patient.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT