MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2010
Steve Marino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Scores are going down and down. What do you make of the situation?  
 STEVE MARINO: I mean, there wasn't much wind. The weather was perfect. The greens were perfect. There were some tough pins, but I think if you were putting well, you could shoot a good score out there.   
  
  Q. Obviously 2, did that start your day today with the nice up-and-down?  
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Tell us about that.   
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, I was trying to lay it up right, and I ended up laying it up right of right, and it ended up being absolutely perfect. I had an easy little pitch up the green, hit a good shot and made the putt, so yeah, that was a good start.  
  
  Q. What was the club on that?  
 STEVE MARINO: I hit a 3-wood.  
  
  Q. And what was the club on 6?   
 STEVE MARINO: 7-iron.   
  
  Q. You had it to 5-under through 10. Did you look up there and see your name on the leaderboard by chance?  
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, I saw it.  
  
  Q. How did that feel?  
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, it felt pretty good, but this golf course is -- it's such a delicate little beast that if you blink for a second, next thing you know you're making bogey. I hit a couple poor shots and made some bogeys, but I made a couple birdies coming in.  
  
  Q. On 8 you get the ruling. What were you looking at there? And then what happened?   
 STEVE MARINO: Oh, there was just some pine straw in front of my ball, like a lump of it, and I wanted to know if I do move it out of the way so the ball wouldn't hit it after I made impact.  
  
  Q. Did you hit like a 5-iron out of it?  
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, 5-iron.  
  
  Q. How do you think this is shaping up? Do you think you've got a shot?  
 STEVE MARINO: I don't know. I know Lee Westwood is at 10. It all depends on what everybody does on the back nine. Regardless, I'm going to have to shoot a real low round tomorrow. There's an outside chance. Very slim, but you never know.  
  
  Q. Is your goal tomorrow or is it on your mind at all to try to make top 16?  
 STEVE MARINO: Maybe a little bit, but I won't be thinking about that when I'm out there. I'm just going to try to go and just play the best that I can.   
  
  Q. What were you thinking expectation wise, if anything?  
 STEVE MARINO: I just wanted to go out and just enjoy it and have fun and just play the best that I could, and so far I've accomplished that goal.  
  
  Q. You saw Watson shoot low. Did you kind of learn a lot there?  
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, absolutely. Just seeing somebody do it just makes you think that you can do it, so it definitely helped a little bit.  
  
  Q. For a golf course that demands so much knowledge, how have you been able to come out and play here so well?  
 STEVE MARINO: You know, I don't know. I guess I've just been a little bit lucky, I guess. I'm just trying to just go about it just like I do every single week on Tour, just play my game and see what happens.  
  
  Q. When did you and Ryan (indiscernible.) Was that Bay Hill?  
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, Sunday and Monday.  
  
  Q. Any other tips?  
 STEVE MARINO: No, that was it.   
  
  Q. Do you think the course is getting harder each day?  
 STEVE MARINO: I think it played more difficult yesterday than it did today and probably a little bit more difficult today than it did the first day. So I'm assuming tomorrow is going to be very difficult.   
  
  Q. Making a great putt at 18, is that a lot better to sleep on than the previous holes?  
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, absolutely. I kind of butchered 17. I hit it right down the middle of the fairway and didn't hit a very good second shot and didn't get it up-and-down from the bunker. So to make birdie on 18, it makes me feel a lot better about the round.  
  
  Q. And 13, what happened there?  
 STEVE MARINO: I hit a pretty good -- I laid up and hit a pretty good shot in there, and it just didn't quite get to the top of the hill and rolled back down. I hit a pretty good lag putt, left it four and a half feet short of the hole, and I just pulled it and missed it and made 6.  
  
  Q. One of the only inside five feet putts you missed probably all week?  
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, I've been putting pretty well all week.   
  
  Q. This is a premature question, but are you at all trying to position yourself to try and make the Ryder Cup team or trying to watch the points standings?  
 STEVE MARINO: You know, I won't start -- I won't watch the standings at all, but it's definitely a goal of mine to make that team.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT