MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2010
Steve Marino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. (On Tom Watson's play:) Are you starting to think this is normal?
 STEVE MARINO: I don't know, he made like a 25-footer on the first hole. I said, Nice putt. He said, Hey, you bring out the best in me. I thought that was kind of funny. Both times I've played with him he's played unbelievable. I don't know if he made a bogey today, but it was pretty impressive.

 Q. How old is he playing?
 STEVE MARINO: What do you mean? 

 Q. How old is he playing, his game?
 STEVE MARINO: I mean, I don't know if you can put an age on how anybody is playing, but he's playing like one of the best players in the world right now. Today he did. 

 Q. Do you just have to marvel?
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, it's pretty unbelievable. The guy just hits it so solid and so straight. Both times I've played with him that's what it's been like, and it's hard for me to imagine him ever shooting over par. He got up-and-down on 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, but at the same time, they weren't impossible chips. He was hitting it in spots where he could manage it and deal with it, and he took advantage of that. 

 Q. How did you enjoy your first trip around?
 STEVE MARINO: It was awesome. I had a blast.

 Q. Until the last hole. 
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, it was a little disappointing way to finish, but first round at Augusta, to break par, that's pretty good.

 Q. Did he teach you anything?
 STEVE MARINO: He just showed me how to shoot 67. 

 Q. How is it playing today? 
 STEVE MARINO: You know, it's kind of tough. The wind is sort of blowing a little bit, kind of swirling in around those trees. But the greens were fairly soft and not too fast. I think they were nice to us, and it could have been crazy hard today. But you know, it's still playing very difficult, but we got a little bit of a break with the greens being soft. 

 Q. Do you feel like (indiscernible.)? 
 STEVE MARINO: Well, maybe. We'll wait until Sunday to see, but if he keeps playing like this, he'll be right there.

 Q. I'm sure you're hoping you can catch up to him. 
 STEVE MARINO: Absolutely. We have a good time together, and he's just -- watching him play, it's like, that's how you want to teach your kids or teach anybody how to play golf is just like him.

 Q. He said the course was too much for him last year. 
 STEVE MARINO: Well, the course is pretty long. You get those holes into the wind -- 11, that's a brutal hole for anybody, I don't care who you are. But it didn't look like it was too much for him today. He handled himself quite well. 

 Q. The eagle on 2, what did you have in?
 STEVE MARINO: We had 75 yards, hit a little lob wedge, and it just landed short, and I think it just skipped right in there, kind of bounced right in the hole. 

 Q. You didn't have any thoughts of going for it there?
 STEVE MARINO: No, I was in the right trees off the tee. 

 Q. Who do you have with you here?
 STEVE MARINO: My whole family, my parents, my brother, my grandma and my girlfriend is here, a couple friends.

 Q. When did you get in?
 STEVE MARINO: Sunday night.

 Q. So Monday was your first look at the course?
 STEVE MARINO: I came up a couple weeks prior, yeah.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT