BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 13, 2009
Steve Marino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Pretty proud of yourself after fighting back after the second round?
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, you know, I was playing okay in the second round. I was going along all right, and then I just all of a sudden had a brain fart or something and I finished the last four holes 5-over; turned an even-par, 1-over round into a hockey stick. So that was very frustrating for me. I was definitely upset about it throughout the night on Friday night. 
 But I was able to kind of refocus my energy and do the best that I could. At the beginning of the season a goal of mine was just to make it to the TOUR Championship, so yeah, I'm definitely proud of myself.

 Q. Today looking at the hole locations and setup, it seems pretty difficult. 
 STEVE MARINO: Very difficult. Today was very, very difficult. I don't think they were too happy about Tiger shooting 62 yesterday.

 Q. Is there a 62 out there today?
 STEVE MARINO: No way. No way. I saw Camilo shot 66, and that's similar to Tiger's 62 yesterday. 

 Q. As far as the TOUR Championship and getting to play in I think three of the four majors for sure, that sets up your schedule pretty nice for next year; you can pretty much play where you want to play. That's got to be nice, huh?
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, I'm thrilled about it. I'm super-excited. I've never played in the Masters. I've played in two U.S. Opens, but I didn't qualify this year. It's going to be a huge relief not to have to worry about that going into next year.

 Q. And then just kind of coming down the stretch, sometimes you look at the board. You can look at it, and then five seconds later somebody might make a birdie and it might change. Do you pay attention to that stuff?
 STEVE MARINO: I tried not to look at the boards today. I was already a little bit more nervous than -- I'm never really nervous, but today I was a little bit nervous. I made it a point to try not to look at the board. I accidentally caught a glimpse of it on 15 and saw that I was still in, and I was happy about that, but I was able to kind of put it behind me and finish strong. I'm just super-excited.

 Q. This is your third season? 
 STEVE MARINO: Third season.

 Q. You haven't been around forever, but it's got to be pretty exciting, the three Playoff events you've played in, and you come out today and normally after the PGA Championship there's not a whole lot on the line, and you've got a chance to play in the TOUR Championship and majors next year. Talk about how the Playoffs have been for you this year. 
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, I think I started the Playoffs right on the number at 30. I played well at the Barclays and moved me up a little bit, and then I played pretty well last week even though I dropped some spots in the FedExCup. But I played well this week for the most part except for a couple holes on Friday. It definitely adds some excitement, I think, not only for the fans but for the players, also. It's definitely exciting and more nerve-wracking. I think it's good for the game.

 Q. Your odds aren't great to win the FedExCup in Atlanta, but certainly winning your first PGA TOUR event in Atlanta would be pretty exciting?
 STEVE MARINO: Absolutely. I've got one more chance, small field. I know it's the best players on the TOUR. But I'm excited about it, and I'm going to go there and do the best I can. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT