BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 10, 2009
Steve Marino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome Steve Marino into the interview room here at the BMW Championship, currently 5-under par 66. Steve, currently No. 26 in the points standings, so it's a big week for you, and you got off to a great start today. Let's get your comments on your round.   
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, today was a great day. I started off a little bit shaky but made some key putts for par on the front nine to kind of stay even par, and then I birdied 8 and 9. And then from there on out I played great.   
  
  Q. When you got on a run like that, birdieing 8 and 9 and then 11 and 12, how easy is it to keep it going on a course like this?  
 STEVE MARINO: On a course like this I don't think it's very easy to keep it going. Every shot is so demanding. This is a long, difficult golf course. So the only thing you're thinking about, even when you get on a run like that out here, is just trying to hit the best shot that you can the next shot because I think if you let your focus and concentration slip out here, you can get on a run the other way and make three, four bogeys in a row.   
  
  Q. Can you talk a little bit about the FedExCup? You're in the Top 30 now, but you probably need to play well to stay there. How much is it on your mind?   
 STEVE MARINO: It's on my mind a little bit, but I'm trying not to think about it too much to be honest with you. I'm just trying to go out there and just kind of treat this like any other tournament and just try to do the best I can, because I think if you start thinking about all that stuff and start number crunching in your mind, that's probably not going to be a very good thing.   
 JOHN BUSH: Only slip-up today on No. 2, the par-3. Take us through that.   
 STEVE MARINO: I hit a pretty good shot in there, but it just came up just short. I had a pretty easy up-and-down actually and just hit a terrible chip and missed about a 10-, 12-footer for par.   
 JOHN BUSH: Let's go through the birdies. No. 3?   
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, I made a nice probably 18-footer on that hole, which was great coming off the bogey on 2.   
 8, hit my drive way out there. I was probably only 30 yards from the hole, pitched it on about eight feet and made the putt.   
 9, laid it up and then hit a sand wedge in there to about a foot.  
 11, I hit a lob wedge in there and made about a four-footer.  
 12, I hit it in there 20 feet and made the putt.   
 And then 18, I hit an awesome drive and only had 9-iron in there to about probably ten feet and made the putt.   
  
  Q. Explain how you were only 30 yards on 8. How long was that hole playing?  
 STEVE MARINO: I have no idea what happened. I kind of pulled my drive a little bit, and I was actually kind of -- I hit it well, so I thought I was going to carry the bunker on the left, and we got up there, and it was way up there on the left side of the fairway, probably only 10, 15 yards short of the front of the green. I couldn't believe that.   
  
  Q. It seems that ball striker golf courses, Colonial, here, seem to bring the best out of you. Would you agree with that, and if so, why? Is it just because ball-striking is the best part of your game?  
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, I think you hit the nail on the head right there. I think driving the ball, and I tend to hit my irons pretty well. I would definitely say that ball-striking is the best part of my game, for sure, and I think -- I guess, I haven't really thought about it too much, but maybe that's why I seem to play well at courses where I guess it requires that.   
 JOHN BUSH: Steve, thanks for coming by.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT