WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 22, 2009
Steve Marino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Glad to get this in?
 STEVE MARINO: Absolutely. You know, we were talking about it when we went back out on 14 tee if we were going to make it or not. We knew it was going to be close. The guys in front of us motored and we made it. I'm really thrilled about that. If I had to come back -- I had to come back yesterday morning to finish Round 1.

 Q. You are going to be able to sleep in, the first page of the leaderboard.
 STEVE MARINO: I think it's huge. I've been pretty tired this week. I'm not feeling that great but, you know, I'll get a good night's sleep night and I'm really looking forward to it.

 Q. Did you get on one of those Steve Marino streaks today?
 STEVE MARINO: I started on hole 9, made a couple putts. I've been hitting it good all week. The first two days I didn't make much. I got on a nice streak the last ten holes of the day.

 Q. I only saw part of your round. How many fairways did you hit today, looked like you were always in the fairway.
 STEVE MARINO: I have no idea. Probably the majority.

 Q. You said you've been -- they said you hadn't been feeling well, got a cold or something?
 STEVE MARINO: Coming in yesterday morning, after I finished my first round I was just so hot, I was soaking wet and then I came in to eat and it was freezing in there so I think that might have had something to do with it.

 Q. Something you didn't come here with.
 STEVE MARINO: No, just happened like last night. It's a weird thing.

 Q. How are you feeling today?
 STEVE MARINO: I feel okay. I'm just a little congested, little stopped up but I feel okay.

 Q. You got on the run and you missed the birdie putt at, I think, it was 17. Seems you were pretty upset.
 STEVE MARINO: I missed a 3-putt for birdie there in Round 1. I really wanted to make that one but 63 on Saturday, I'll take it.

 Q. What does that do setting up for Sunday?
 STEVE MARINO: You know, obviously it puts me in the hunt. I don't know really what's going on out there. There some guys are going to have some holes to finish tomorrow and I'm sure they'll make some birdies, but today my goal was just to try to inch a little bit closer to the lead so I could have an outside chance on Sunday. I think I did that.

 Q. How does this course set up for you, does it kind of suit your game?
 STEVE MARINO: I like it. I think there's a premium on hitting fairways, just because the rough is so nasty and I drive the ball pretty straight so if you hit in it the fairway out here you can really make some birdies.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT