QUAIL HOLLOW CHAMPIONSHIP
April 30, 2009
Steve Marino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Do you want to just talk a little bit about your round today?
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, I got off to a good start. I was hitting the ball well in the beginning, made a nice putt probably 10-, 12-footer on 13 for birdie straight down the hill, which was lightning, so that was sweet that that went in. And then I had a tap-in birdie on one of the par-5s on the back and then birdied 18, which is always a bonus, so I turned at 3-under. 
 I kind of kept it going on the front. I had one hiccup on 4, hit it in the trees off the tee and made bogey. But then came back and birdied 5 and 6 and then 8. So it was a nice finish. It could have gone the other way. I hit some bad shots at the end off the tee but got some good breaks and was able to salvage some pars. 

 Q. What was kind of the strength of your round today, putting? 
 STEVE MARINO: You know, I think it was when I was in the fairway I was hitting it close and making birdies, and also I putted pretty well. I didn't three-putt and I mad some nice putts out there.

 Q. Just talk a little bit about the conditions of the course. 
 STEVE MARINO: It's awesome. Man, it's really fun out there. It's nice not to be so concerned about hitting it in the rough when you're on the tee box because in years past it's like if you hit it in that rough, you're just done. I mean, so having the short rough, it's still tough when you hit it in the rough because you can't control the ball as well, but you're able to at least get it on the green and maybe stop it on the green, whereas in years past you're just hacking it out. 
 The conditions were great, a little bit easier than years past, but if we don't get rain -- I think we're going to, but if we don't, it'll be scary firm and fast out there. 

 Q. What are your thoughts going into tomorrow? I mean, there's a good leaderboard right now. 
 STEVE MARINO: Right. I mean, I'm just looking to try to just keep playing good golf. I mean, it's Thursday so there's a long way to go, and hopefully I won't be too groggy when I wake up for that 7:00 o'clock tee time tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT