ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 25, 2009
Steve Marino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. When I saw you hit driver on 16, I really admired. You hit somewhat of a loose drive, missed it left on the 15th hole. You had no hesitation, pulled out that driver on 16, and you make birdie?  
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, I figured the wind's blowing left to right, and that was kind of an aberration on 15. I don't really ever hit it left. So I figured if I could just get it somewhere up there around the green, I could probably chip it within 15 feet and have a good shot at birdie.  
  
  Q. Golf is just not a fair game. If you're going to miss the approach into 18, that front bunker is not a bad place to be. You just got a bad lie; is that correct?  
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, it just rolled up right under the face right there. I didn't have much of a stance. I didn't think I could hit it that far, actually.   
 It came out real hot, and went over the green. That's the last place you want to be. Ended up making six. But I played well all day, and I look forward to more.  
  
  Q. I admire that attitude. Said I'm sorry about the bogey on 18. But you said that's okay, I played well?  
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, things like that happen in golf. I made a nice chip-in today. Had some good breaks happen for me. It was unfortunate to end like that on 18, but that's just the way it goes.  
  
  Q. The beauty of it is you get to play another 18 on Sunday and take a run at a victory?  
 STEVE MARINO: Yep, yep, you got it. I'm looking for some revenge on 18, that's for sure.  
  
  Q. Obviously not the way you want to finish. But your thoughts on the rounds? Lot of birdies, but kind of a crazy double bogey thrown in?  
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, I came out of the gates pretty good. Birdied the first two holes, hit a loose shot on 3 and made 5. But other than that it was a great day. I kind of hung in there is, especially after that double bogey. I hung in there, made a bunch of pars. Then birdied 7, 8 and 9. Just kept my head down and kept plugging along.  
  
  Q. You have that second place finish. You've been knocking on the door. Do you feel you're ready to break through and what is it going to take?   
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, I think so. It's going to take some good golf and some good luck. I've been close a couple of times. I've been struggling like the last couple of months, but I feel I'm starting to come around and playing well again.   
 So maybe I'll get a couple of good breaks tomorrow and make some putts. You never know.  
  
  Q. With this wind, you've had high scores and low scores today. How do you balance being aggressive when you have the wind like this?   
 STEVE MARINO: You just have to stay patient. You've got to go with your gut instinct. If you're having negative thoughts about doing something out there, you better take the safe route. But if you're feeling good about being aggressive, you might as well go ahead and try to pull it off.   
  
  Q. You kind of changed strategies there, what prompted that?   
 STEVE MARINO: They moved the tee box up like 70 yards, so any time I can have a chance to knock a driver on this tee, I usually try to go for it. My driver's one of the best clubs in my bag.   
 So when I saw that tee box up and saw I might potentially have a putt for eagle, I couldn't exist.  
  
  Q. Were you thinking I'm playing well today. I'm feeling good. I should go for it?   
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah. I mean, it was a tough shot, but I figured if I could just get it somewhere up there around the green and keep it out of the water, I should be able to chip it within 15 feet and have a good look at birdie.  
  
  Q. Must be disappointed about the finish at 18. But you shot good today and being in contention for the final round, it's got to feel good?  
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, I do feel good. It was disappointing to end like that on on 18. But I had some good breaks today, too. But in the end after four rounds everything kind of balances out.  
  
  Q. What is more difficult? Getting into contention in the final round or being there and trying to make par?  
 STEVE MARINO: I would say getting into contention. In order to get there, you have to have a lot of things go your way and make a lot of putts. Once you're there, you kind of go with the flow and keep doing what you've been doing.  
  
  Q. Talk about what went right today?   
 STEVE MARINO: Well, I finally made a bunch of putts today. I made a couple of nice putts on the first two holes, and then I made nice putts on 7, 8 and 9. I chipped in for birdie on 12.   
 And I just really, you know, stayed patient out there and kept my head down and kept plugging along, because it was tough out there. You know, just kind of slipped in concentration a little bit.  
  
  Q. How were the greens?   
 STEVE MARINO: Very tough.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like in the afternoon, especially, they're getting faster? It seems like the lower scores this week have come in the morning?  
 STEVE MARINO: Right, absolutely. As the day goes on, the greens will dry out. People have been walking on them all day so they're getting packed down a little bit. So, they are definitely, definitely tougher.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT