AT&T NATIONAL
July 6, 2008
Steve Marino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Your overall tournament impressions?   
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, I started off pretty good Thursday, 5-under, and you know, I played okay on Friday and I actually played pretty well yesterday. I just couldn't make any putts and I played average, shot 1-under, and so obviously it's not the result I would have liked starting the way I did. I thought I played okay this week.   
  
  Q. What kind of memories will you take from this tournament, say, six months from now?  
 STEVE MARINO: Well, I just think it was special having my friends and family out here supporting me and you know, the guys were getting pretty rowdy and that felt pretty good just to know that my friends are out there supporting me and they are behind me 100% and they really enjoyed coming out to watch me play. I think it was special for my parents, a lot of people from our club came out and watched and I know they had a great time.   
 So you know, it was just a great experience for me.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about your perspective, your friends got spoken to, shall we say. What did you learn about that, and did you have to talk to them yourself?  
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, I just told them to just tone it down maybe just a little bit. I think that they were getting a little loud but at the same time, I mean, you know, I think that some enthusiasm out there, it doesn't hurt, as long as it's not really affecting some other players, I think we had an issue with that yesterday. But nobody else, no other players or caddies came up to me and said anything to me about it.  
  
  Q. Did Maggert say anything to you personally?   
 STEVE MARINO: No comment.   
  
  Q. You finished ten shots better than last year; what does that do for you going forward?   
 STEVE MARINO: I just think it gives me some confidence. I actually probably hit the ball better last year here than I did this year. I just putted terrible. But definitely gives me some confidence. We've got the FedExCup Playoffs coming up, so I'm trying to round into form for those. I'd like to have some more good finishes and try to get at least in the Top-30. I think I'm ranked 50th right now, probably stay about the same this week and try to get at least in the Top-30 starting the FedExCup and try to lock my way into that TOUR Championship.   
  
  Q. How does this year's tournament differ from last year's overall?   
 STEVE MARINO: I think a little bit more experience, having played a whole year and a half on TOUR now really helped me out, knowing what to expect, this course is a monster. It's very difficult and playing it last year, I learned a few things, just basically being more experienced. The older you get, the more you play, I think the better that you're going to get.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT