MAYAKOBA GOLF CLASSIC AT RIVIERA MAYA - CANCUN
February 24, 2008
Steve Marino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Nice finish for you there. 
 STEVE MARINO:  Yeah, thanks a lot.  I played well today.  I didn't make any bogeys.  I just didn't really make enough putts to put any serious heat on Brian.  

 Q.  I think you were four back at one point, he made a bogey and you made a lot of pars early on; maybe overall just talk about the week. 
 STEVE MARINO:  Yeah, it was a great week.  Played real well every day.  I bogeyed three on the weekend.  I can't ask for much more than that. 

 Q.  You were I think five back going into today.  Realistically, he's probably got to stumble a little bit or you have to really go low to win the tournament; what's your mind-set starting out? 
 STEVE MARINO:  I just kind of tried to go out there and just play my game and try to hit the best shots I possibly could; and if the putts went in, the putts went in. 
 Obviously I was going to need a little help from Brian, but he played great.  Congrats to him.  Overall it's a great week for me and I'm pretty happy. 

 Q.  Two Top-10s in two starts here, you must like this place, too? 
 STEVE MARINO:  Yeah, it's a great golf course.  It's real fun to come down here.  The weather is great and it's beautiful.  I'd like to play in the Match Play next year, but coming here is not too bad, either. 

 Q.  So you're getting more comfortable around the lead, do you think sometime you're going to be able to slip into that winner's circle? 
 STEVE MARINO:  I think so.  It's just a matter of the putts going in.  If you get a hot putter on Sunday and you're close to the lead, you never know what might happen.  I'm getting closer and closer, so I can't complain. 

 Q.  Overall as far as your overall game, what are your strengths? 
 STEVE MARINO:  I think my ball-striking.  I hit it in the fairway straight off the tee and fairly long and I hit a lot of greens.  I've just got to work on putting a little bit.  Hopefully if I can get a little bit better at that, I can find myself in the winner's circle. 

 Q.  What's your schedule for the Florida Swing? 
 STEVE MARINO:  I'm going to play all of them. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT