SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 11, 2008
Steve Marino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  What's the plan for the rest of the day?   
 STEVE MARINO:  I'm not sure.  I might go down to Waikiki and hang out.  I'm probably going to do a little putting, but other than that just kind of lay low and take it easy.   
  
  Q.  If you could just give me a couple of general comments just recapping the round, culminating with a nice birdie on 18 to tie for the lead.   
 STEVE MARINO:  I got off to a hot start.  I was 4-under through 8 and kind of hit a wall on 9, and the putts kind of stopped dropping on the back.  I had a three-putt on 14.   
 But overall I played real well today, and I've got no complaints.  I'm very happy with the way I'm playing.   
  
  Q.  Your thoughts on day two here at the Sony.   
 STEVE MARINO:  Yeah, I'm really happy with the way I played today.  I got off to a hot start and kind of stalled for a little bit.  But I made a nice putt on 18 to cap off a good round.   
  
  Q.  So much is made about the draws out here, and it seemed like yesterday afternoon wasn't too bad, and pretty much the same this morning.  Do you feel like you maybe have the better end of it this week?   
 STEVE MARINO:  Yeah, I think so.  You know, the wind yesterday didn't blow at all in the afternoon, and I think that definitely helped those of us out who were in this draw.  But this morning actually it was kind of breezy all day.  Hopefully the wind will stay up for these guys in the afternoon, but if not, if it calms down, I guess everything will even out.   
  
  Q.  You had a procedure during the off-season which makes it a little clearer for you to see on the greens.  Tell us about it.   
 STEVE MARINO:  Yeah, I had LASIK surgery done on December 7th, and I'm seeing great right now.  I've never seen this well before in my life.  It definitely helps on the greens a little bit.  I can actually see the little pieces of grass on the green.  It helps me see the grain better.  So far this week I've putted a lot better.   
  
  Q.  What did you learn about yourself after a successful '07 to sort of take it to the next level here in '08?   
 STEVE MARINO:  Basically I just learned that I can compete and play with these guys out here, and I feel like I belong.  I'm looking forward to this year and I'm trying to get myself in contention as many times as I possibly can and hopefully maybe get a win or two.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT