JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 8, 2011
Steve Marino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Steve, great round today. If you want to kind of take us through your round and we'll get some questions.
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah. I -- shoot, I can't even remember. I think I started off with three pars and then I birdied 13 and 14, made a nice birdie on 16. Didn't birdie 17, which was a little disappointing, but got turned in 3-under. And then I had an eagle on 2. And then I made a bogey somewhere, 6. And then came back with a birdie on 8 -- or 7 and parred or bogeyed 5. I don't know. But I birdied 7 and parred 8 and 9. So it was a good day.
 THE MODERATOR: Okay. What did you have going well today? 
 STEVE MARINO: You know, I was hitting it pretty good off the tee, hitting my irons pretty well. I didn't putt as well as I did yesterday, but overall everything was pretty sharp.
 THE MODERATOR: Okay. Questions.

 Q. How did you eagle 2?
 STEVE MARINO: I hit a driver and a 5-iron to probably about 20 feet and made the putt. 

 Q. That was a lot different today?
 STEVE MARINO: Absolutely. Absolutely. It's kind of dicey. The pin's front left, so you gotta make sure you kind of miss it long right, but if you do that, there's kind of a funnel that leads it right down behind it, so I'm sure you'll see a couple eagles there today.

 Q. Four in about 40 minutes. 
 STEVE MARINO: Oh really? 

 Q. What's been working well for you this week? Two pretty good rounds to start the tournament.
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah. Yesterday the putter was really good. I made a bunch of putts. And today I hit the ball great, hit a bunch of shots close to the hole and was able to make a few putts as well, but today was more the ball striking. Yesterday was the putting.

 Q. And trying to combine the two for the next two days then?
 STEVE MARINO: That would be the idea, yeah. I mean it's rare that you kind of combine, get everything going together. But I think Stricker and Goydos had that going here last year, so maybe I'll be able to do that this year.

 Q. The way the course has been playing, do you see any 59s or anything like that the next couple days?
 STEVE MARINO: Well, we might right now. I don't know what Chez -- he's 60.
 THE MODERATOR: Well, he put it in the bunker on the front. I didn't see what he made the last.
 STEVE MARINO: Maybe. Yeah, there could be.

 Q. Is the course playing that easy today?
 STEVE MARINO: 60, if that's shot, it's a pretty good score. I wasn't here last year but I think it was probably playing easier last year. I remember the scores being a little bit lower. But if you're hitting the ball in the fairway, you can really get going if your putter gets hot. 

 Q. The greens firmer this year, how is that affecting the scoring?
 STEVE MARINO: Well, I think it's making it play just a little bit more difficult. I mean they're not super firm by any stretch, but you know, I've definitely played softer greens. I think they're about perfect for scoring. 

 Q. Do you expect this score to hold up through the day or what do you see happening this afternoon?
 STEVE MARINO: What, 15-under or whatever it is? 

 Q. Yeah.
 STEVE MARINO: I think so, yeah. Yeah. Some people might get close, 12, 13, 14 maybe, but I don't really see anybody getting past 15. 

 Q. What does this do then to your weekend? How does it change your mindset?
 STEVE MARINO: I think the only mindset you can have here is just to go out there and try to make as many birdies as you can because you know that's what everybody else is going to be doing. So I'm going to keep the same mindset, just kind of pedal to the metal and try to make as many birdies as I possibly can.

 Q. You look, it seems like you're ready to win. You just had that look about you. You're playing very well. Do you have that feeling? Is it right there for you?
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah. I think so. I think that on any given week if I play well, that I'm going to have a chance to win on Sunday. So yeah, I think that I'm definitely playing well enough to do it, and there's no reason why I can't see myself doing it. 
 THE MODERATOR: Okay. Thanks a lot, Steve. Good luck on the weekend.
 STEVE MARINO: Thanks, guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT