JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 7, 2011
Steve Marino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What was working for you today?  
 STEVE MARINO: Putted really well, made some real nice putts, and hit the ball pretty good. And you know, overall it was just a great day, very solid, and my putter was really good.  
  
  Q. What about the season as a whole and where your confidence is at right now?  
 STEVE MARINO: The season has been pretty good so far. I've had some nice tournaments, but it's a long ways to go, and I feel like I'm playing pretty well, and looking forward to the rest of the season and obviously the rest of this week.  
  
  Q. What about your birdies today? Can you go through those a little bit?  
 STEVE MARINO: I made a birdie on 3, 4, 5, 7, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 17.  
  
  Q. Any particular shot that stood out that got you going early?  
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah, because I bogeyed No. 2, probably the easiest hole on the course, par-5 and then I made like a 50-footer for birdie on 3. So that birdie didn't linger with me for too long after making that 50-footer and I kind of got it together after that, started playing great.  
  
  Q. What do you do, day one, it's exciting to start out well, but to kind of keep yourself in check, not get too excited?  
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah. There's a lot of golf left. There's going to be a lot of good scores shot out here this week, so I'm just going to try to go out there and just do the best I can.   
 And you know, like I said, it's a long way to go, so shooting 7-under the first day is awesome, but it's not going to get you anything come Sunday.  
  
  Q. How about getting back out here first thing in the morning to get on it again? Will it be a chance to go get some, putt the ball well, smooth greens?  
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah. I think so. I mean I think the greens will be a little softer, too, maybe a little bit more receptive than they will be in the afternoon. So I definitely think it's an advantage after shooting a good round in the afternoon to come right back out in the morning and get it going again.  
  
  Q. When you shoot so well on day one, what do you do, is there something that you think about the course today that will work for you the rest of the tournament or what do you think about going in after a good day?  
 STEVE MARINO: You know, you just kind of try to maintain that momentum. You can't really think about it too much. You just gotta keep feeling the good vibes and go out there and try to get prepared for the next day.  
  
  Q. Everybody in the group was playing well. Does that help?  
 STEVE MARINO: Yeah. We had a good group, and one of my really good friends, Will MacKenzie was in the group, so it was nice to have him there. And I think that that was good. You know, I think everybody kind of fed off everybody else, and we had a great group. I think we finished like 15-under par combined, so it was awesome.  
  
  Q. Where does where you're at now this season maybe measure up against your expectations that you entered with?  
 STEVE MARINO: You know, I don't know. I didn't really have any expectations starting the season out. I just wanted to come out and play my game and have a good attitude, and I knew if I could do that, then I was going to have a pretty good year.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT