WORLD GOLF HALL-OF-FAME INDUCTION
November 15, 2004
Tom Kite
Charlie Sifford
Marlene Stewart Streit
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

MARLENE STEWART STREIT:  Thank you, JoAnne, for your very kind words of introduction.  You stole my speech, but other than that...  You're a very special friend, a great competitor and an outstanding Hall of Famer.

Family, friends and other distinguished guests, I'm really excited.  Everybody asked me if I was excited.  They've been asking me this for six months.  I am very excited and humbled to be here this evening.  This is a tremendous honor, and I want to thank everyone for their support.  This is definitely beyond any wildest dream I could ever think of having.

First of all, it is my pleasure to congratulate my fellow inductees, Charlie, Isao and Tom, for their unique contributions to the game.  I am very proud this evening to be part of this very special class.  No matter who you are or what you do, we all have played for the love of the game.

I'm honored and privileged to be inducted this evening into the World Golf Hall of Fame as a lifetime amateur and as a female golfer   but also, maybe most importantly, I'm proud to be the first Canadian.

This is huge for Canada, and it's been a wonderful summer of celebration for me.  It gives me great pleasure to share my introduction with all of Canada, and especially the Canadian golfing community, who has been so supportive of my career all over the years.

I want to thank the Selection Committee for their time and effort while considering my nomination, then for selecting me to have a place among all of those who have meant so much to golf and all of those who I have admired and respected all of these years   quite a few years.

It's hard to believe that I'm really here.  Once you drive into the driveway coming in here, then I went into the hall and saw all of that Wall of Fame, I mean, there's Mr. Palmer, and it goes on from Mr. Palmer.  I just can hardly believe I am here.  I am just so thrilled.

I will proudly carry this honor and responsibility of being a member of the World Golf Hall of Fame for the rest of my life.  I would also like to thank the entire staff here at the hall for their hospitality and patience in preparing me for this evening.  After about 5,000 phone calls to Tammy and Eleanor, they'll know what I mean.  Thank you.

I am grateful to Stephen Ross, who on behalf of the Royal Canadian Golf Association, nominated me for golf's highest honor.  I would also like to thank everyone for supported my nomination.  And I will be forever grateful to them for enabling me to become the first Canadian inducted into this prestigious hall.

I was totally overwhelmed when I received the call from Stephen back in April, notifying me I had been selected for the World Golf Hall of Fame.  I was speechless, had a few tears, and tried to say thank you.  And after I hung up, I thought maybe it was a dream, so I called him right back and, you know, said, "Stephen, did you really call me?"  And he did.  He confirmed the call, said he had really called, and repeated what he had said.  Then he told me, "Marlene, get off the phone.  Jack Peter is trying to call you to give you the official news from the World Golf Hall of Fame."  I did, and I had this wonderful call from Jack.

It was a happy and sad time for me that day because the first person in my thoughts was my husband Doug and how sorry I was that he wasn't there to share that special moment with me.  Somehow I think he really was there.

I've had plenty of time and opportunity to reflect on my life this summer.  I was born in a small prairie town

JoAnne, you told everything, so I don't know what I'm going to do here.

I was born in a small prairie town in Cereal, Alberta.  My family eventually moved to Fonthill, Ontario.  At the age of 12, my neighbor Ann Sharp asked me to go to Lookout Point Country Club to shag balls for her while she practiced.  I liked the serenity and beauty of the golf course and soon realized it was a game I could play and practice all on my own.

My parents were not golfers, but they were very athletic and enjoyed all sports.  I wanted to caddie, but my mother wouldn't let me until the pro, Gordon McInnis, assured her that he would look out for me.  She thought the golf course was a place where they were drinking and smoking and doing all those bad things   like she was goody two shoes.  But she was a good mom and she was looking after me.

I liked to caddie for Gord so I could watch his smooth, balanced swing, even if he had to take half of the clubs out of the bag on the Back 9 and carry them around in his hand, I guess I was just dragging a little bit.  I also liked to pick up balls for him while he practiced, and he would even let me hit some when he finished.  What a thrill that was.  I loved it.

Little did I realize in meeting Gord that I had found the total package.  He was my mentor, my coach and lifelong friend.  He stressed good basics, the love of practice, which has lasted my whole life.  He taught me course management and kept swing thoughts very simple:  smoothness, rhythm and balance, and the swing's the thing.

Because Gord believed in me, I believed in myself.  That was all the mental confidence I really needed.  I can't tell you how many matches I won just for Gord.  Any success I've had is due to Gord, and I know he is here in spirit tonight.  Thank you, Gord.  I miss you.

When you are old like I am, you have a lot of people to thank and a lot of people to miss.

I am very pleased to have Gordon Jr. here this evening with his wife Nancy, his children Katie and Stephen.  Thank you for your love and support all along the way.

I did not live my life or play golf to reach this destination.  As a lifelong amateur, I only played for the love of the game.  For me it's not about the destination, but the joy that comes from the journey.

One of my greatest joys has been to play in international team competitions representing Canada, and I am grateful to the Canadian Ladies Golf Association for giving me these opportunities.  To me, there is no greater thrill than when your country's flag is raised at these events.  Now, to see our Canadian flag flying high here at the World Golf Hall of Fame is simply magic.  I am proud to be a Canadian.

It was a great thrill to win national amateur championships in Canada, Great Britain, Australia and the United States.  I won the British and Australian championships while I was a member of the Canadian Commonwealth Team.  They were all very important championships to me.  However, I feel the 1956 USGA Amateur Championship was my most important win.  JoAnne made reference to this in her lengthy introduction.

You know, I really have the Great Gundy or Big Mama to thank for that win.  You know, if she hadn't been so busy pacing to see how far she could hit it by me, she might have won that match and I wouldn't even be standing here now (laughter).

Then to win the 2003 USGA Senior Championship last year at the age of 69, I don't mind telling my age, I mean, I want every year I can get, just enforces that golf is a game for a lifetime, even competitive golf.

In 1965 and '66, I had the good fortune to be invited as an amateur to participate in Shell's Wonderful World of Golf.  Because of my amateur status, the monies realized from these matches were donated to the Ontario Ladies Golf Association, and then in turn they honored me by establishing the Marlene Streit Awards Fund to assist Canadian junior girls to play in events outside of Canada.

The fund is still going strong, and I am proud to see so many of our Canadian girls enjoying success in both the professional and amateur ranks.  I might add, quite a few of them have enjoyed quite a bit of success quite a few years ago, Sandra and Jocelyn.

Giving back to the game has been a very satisfying experience for me.  And now to see Shell as a founding partner of the World Golf Hall of Fame just confirms their outstanding commitment to this game.  Thank you, Shell.

Trophies and awards don't mean much without friends and family to share them with you.  I am only here tonight because of my parents, Harold and Mary, who gave me life, and good healthy genes along with their wholehearted support.  They always encouraged me to try my best and never give up.  I miss them tonight, but I know they are proud and they are here in spirit.

Doug's aunt and uncle Brad and Ruth Streit did play golf, and were my second family, my golfing family.  They gave me their enthusiastic support and encouragement and they always reminded me that golf is just a game.  I always expected their advice, and it was Uncle Brad who convinced me that I should attend Rollins College here in Florida.  As he said, "If you want to get any better, you can't play golf up north in the snow."  He was right.  They would have been so proud to be here this evening, as well, and I miss them very much.

Everyone should have a sister like my sister Dolly, who is out here someplace.  Her family has always been there for me.  She is here this evening, along with my nephew Randy, and Dolly has always been my biggest fan and my best friend.  Her children were my summer sons and as teenagers they often caddied for me.  Thank you, Dolly Gordie, Ricky and Randy.  I am grateful for your love and support.  I love you.

I've enjoyed the people I've met, the places I have visited, and the friends that I have made along the way.  However, there would not have been the great journey without my husband Doug.  Although he didn't play much golf himself, he always seemed proud of what I was doing and he gave me his total support and encouragement to play amateur golf.  He was a strong, quiet type, and his calmness always kept things in perspective for me.

He always gave me the same homecoming, it never really mattered whether I won or lost.  I'm grateful for his loving support as a husband and friend.  He was there for me, and I miss him so much.  I know he's here with me in spirit this evening.

But much more than golf always was my family.  Our two beautiful caring daughters, Darlene and Lynn, are here with me this evening.  Thank you both for your love and support and understanding.  You are very special friends.  I love you with all my heart.  I'm so happy you're here tonight.

I have been blessed with good health, a wonderful family and friends, as well as the gift of golf.  I thank each and every one of you who have helped me along the way.  I appreciate the special effort that so many of my family and friends have made to be here this evening, to celebrate this distinguished honor and milestone in my life as the first Canadian inductee into the World Golf Hall of Fame.

There's one person who is missing here tonight, and many of you know him.  It's Dick Grimm.  He was all set to come.  He was coming right up until Friday.  I know you all know him.  He's contributed so much to the game of golf in Canada and many other places.  Hi, Dick, we miss you tonight.

Golf truly is the friends you make along the way.  Thank you.


GREG NORMAN:  Ladies and Gentlemen, I'd like to introduce a good friend of mine, winner of 73 tournament victories around the world, a great chef, a great friend, Isao Aoki.

ISAO AOKI:  (In English.)  Greg, thank you very much for being my presenter and kind introduction.  The first time Greg and I play in the States together was at the World Series in 1981.  Since then, we have been good friends.  Thank you again, Greg.

I would like to tell you it is my great honor to be here, to be inducted to the Hall of Fame and to meet all of you here tonight, including my friends from Japan and family.

Golf gave me so many wonderful moments.  To my life, I feel so devoted and fortunate.  I would like to finish my speech in English, but tonight let me speak in Japanese.  I think I can express myself better.


(Continuing in Japanese through interpreter.)


ISAO AOKI:  I started playing golf when I was 15 years old in the mid '50s.  I worked as a caddie when I was in junior high.  I decided to become a professional golfer as soon as I finished school.  If I won, I could make some money.  I could even travel to play in foreign countries if I could make the World Cup team.

I was born into a poor farming family, and therefore that was my dream, to see the world.  In the beginning, it was not a smooth ride, but I was lucky to have opportunities to play on different tours in many different countries    and I was lucky to win some of them.

The first thing I felt when I traveled abroad was everything was big   especially in the States, the country itself, golf courses, people and ideas, everything.  I never felt such magnitude while growing up in Japan.

I played what I considered to be my best game at the US Open at Baltusrol in 1980.  I was paired with Jack Nicklaus for four days and I was waiting for my chance.  I kept telling myself, "No matter how perfect he is, he will make a mistake in 72 holes in four days." But I was wrong (laughter).  Jack did not make any errors until the end of the tournament.

The level of his game astonished me and at the same time this was the first time I realized there was a player in the world who could play far better than my imagination.  I must say that experience eventually led me to my first victory at the Hawaiian Open in 1983, and to the Champions Tour.

I passed JPGA test, equivalent to Q School here, when I was 21.  My first victory came at the age of 28.  I was a late starter.  Back then I was a caddie watching TV in Japan and admiring Arnold Palmer, the king of golf, and Gary Player.  Jack Nicklaus, Lee Trevino and Ray Floyd, they were all from my age group, but they were my idols.  While training to be a professional golfer, I never thought that I could play with superstars in the same field.

When I turned 50 and participated in the senior event for the first time, many players welcomed me as a member of their group.  What a wonderful and heartwarming memory that was.  Having been on the PGA TOUR helped me a great deal for the smooth transition to the Champions Tour.  It is incredible that I won nine tournaments on such a prestigious tour.

There are so many people I would like to thank you:  All my fans all over the world who tirelessly supported me, officials and everyone at PGA TOUR who generously cared for me and supported me, all the volunteers at tournament sites, media people, and, of course, my parents.

American Express and Dunlop Corporation for their long time support as well as Koksaiko and Obeg Corporation (phonetic).  I could not be standing here today without your support.

And the best supporter of all is my wife Chie.  We used to fight when she dragged me to parties, receptions and various social occasions, forcing me to wear suits and tie, which are not my favorite attire.  I did not care for those things.  I was happy just playing golf.  But come to think, such social life and experience, other than playing golf, gave me a different perspective and a motivation to play better.

Sam Snead once said, "The three things I fear most in golf are lightning, Ben Hogan and a downhill putt."  I'm not so scared of a downhill putt, but I am still afraid of Jack and Chie (laughter).

Last but not least, I would like to say thank you from the bottom of my heart to my daughter Joanne, who endured while her parents were busy traveling and not able to be with her all the time.

Thank you very much.


BEN CRENSHAW:  Elected on the PGA TOUR ballot, please welcome the 103rd member of the World Golf Hall of Fame, my friend Tom Kite.

TOM KITE:  Thank you very much.

What a great sport we play.  Can you imagine growing up and competing against somebody from the time you're 12 years old until we're   what are we?   55 coming up, close to 55 for me, Ben's almost 53, and to have that kind of relationship?  I'll tell you, it is unbelievable to have your best friend also be your biggest nemesis.

He has been a pain in my side since I was 12 years old.  He has driven me crazy making 40 footers and 30 footers and 20 footers across the green.  And I love him to death, he's fabulous.

You know, all of us are very fortunate.  This is without a doubt the best sport, no question.  There are a lot of great things.  I mean, we all work hard.  Ben alluded to the fact I spend a lot of time on the practice greens and putting tee trying to hone my game.  But everybody works at this game.  This is not a natural sport.  The golf swing is not a natural motion.  We all have to develop our own swing and our own technique and our own abilities.

But everybody has a certain amount of work ethic that we do, and you have to go through that.  But, you know, apart from that, we also have to get really lucky.  We have to get the good breaks.  Ben alluded to it out there.

The biggest break that I ever had was my dad getting a raise and being transferred from Dallas down to Austin.  He was with the IRS.  They opened up a brand new service center down there in Austin, Texas, where all the lucky people in the seven southwest states get to send their return every April.  He came down as the director of that.

I was a 12 year old kid growing up in Dallas, played golf all the time.  I didn't know what I was in store for.  The opportunity to move to Austin, to take lessons under arguably the greatest teacher that there's ever been in the history of the game, and to go up against competing on a weekly basis with a future Hall of Famer is just more than any kid could ask for.

Harvey was so instrumental, he was so wonderful for us.  He taught everybody as an individual.  There was no method teaching.  He didn't get into that.  He taught Ben totally different than me.  He taught all of the students totally different from another one.  He had a great empathy with his student.  He wanted to make sure he understood what he was trying to get across to them, and he just did a phenomenal job with that.

To have a chance to play against Ben, and it wasn't just Ben, I mean, Ben would be the first to tell you that there were so many kids in Austin.  When we were growing up, there was probably 200,000 people in that town, maybe 250,000.  I will promise you there were probably more single digit handicaps in that town than in any city 10 times that size across the nation.

Harvey.  If you haven't take a lesson from Harvey, you probably took a lesson from somebody who had taken a lesson from Harvey.  It passed all the way down.

The golf coach at the University of Texas that Ben and I played for, George Hannon, he took lessons from Harvey Penick.  He was passing the thing down to all his boys.  So everybody got better because of that.

But the competition is just incredible that we had around Austin when we grew up.  To grow up in that competitive environment with that kind of instruction is something that nobody could    you can't even ask for anything that phenomenal.  It was truly a blessing and a great break.

When I had a chance to turn professional, I went out on tour.  Harvey gave me the best advice that I've ever heard in my life.  You know, we play in corporate pro ams all the time.  People ask you, "Tom we know you've worked with a lot of teachers.  You worked with Davis Love, Jr., Bob Toski, Costas, Chuck Cook, Jim McLean, Dennis Harmon, Dennis Sadsheer (ph), Dave Phillips, all these guys that I've talked to that have given me some great things.  They're wonderful.  Gave me some great advice throughout all the years, helped me to get a little bit better.  They kind of guided my golf along and they taught me so well.

But the best advice I ever got still came from Harvey.  He was such a genius.  I was getting ready to head out.  I'd just gone through the qualifying school, just getting ready to go out to the LA Open in 1973, the very first tournament of the year.  We had just finished up a practice session one afternoon.  I was flying out the next morning.

Harvey walked up, put his arm around me, said, "Tommy, when you get out on tour, I want you to go to dinner with some really good putters."

That kind of shocked me.  We just got through working on my grip, making sure my alignment was good, my posture was good, all the great things.  Now he wants me to go to dinner with good putters.

It didn't hit me right off the bat.  I just kind of dismissed it a little bit.  When I was flying out to Los Angeles the next morning, I started thinking about that comment.

And think about it.  You probably are not a very good putter unless you have a really good attitude.  Harvey wanted me to hang around good people, good, positive people, people with upbeat, happy attitudes, smile on their face, not whining, not crying, not moaning.  He wanted me to hang around very talented people, the most successful people.

He knew if I went to dinner with good putters, if I went to dinner with good people that had great attitudes, that there was no question that I would be very successful.  And I have been very fortunate to be able to do that.  I have worked hard always trying to remember that advice that Harvey gave me.

From the friends that I surround myself with, to the business associates, to the caddies, they have all been the highest quality people that I can find.  If I find somebody that I don't think fits in that category, I'll get away from them as quickly as possible and go find me a good putter to go to dinner with, no question about it.

But I got to tell you, of all the people that I've been around, all the great teachers that have helped me, all the great players like Gary and Arnold and Lee and Dave Stockton and Charlie, and Dale Douglass, that when I went out on tour, they put their arm around me, made sure I didn't mess up too badly, the best putters that I've ever been around are my family.  They are the best, no question about it.

Mom, dad, dad is 88, mom is 86, they're here.  They wouldn't miss this for anything.  I chose my parents well.

My sister Karen, she's five years younger than I am.  She never really played golf.  She never really was given the encouragement to play golf.  I tell you, she has been a support mechanism in my life that's just been incredible.  She's been fabulous.  Karen, I love you so much.  I can't thank you enough for the support you've given me.

And then Christy and David and Stephanie and Paul.  These are the people that made it all worthwhile.  I have got a family that I am so proud of.  Geeze, I'm choking up here.  I thought Ben was going to be the first one to cry up on this stage.  I'm choking up here talking about this.

I'm unbelievably proud of them.  My wife got one of the strongest compliments that anybody could ever get.  Years and years ago when we came out there, a man named Arnold Palmer watched a little young rookie pro come out, play a couple of years, and was watching me try to play.  He just kind of off to the side paid attention to what was going on.  He picked Christy out as one of the top wives out on tour.  Not because she was out there all the time, but because of the way they supported me, the way she allowed me to pursue my dream and chase my dream.

Arnold picked her out.  I picked her out first.  She was pretty good.  But I think Arnold and Gary, they recognize what it takes out there in terms of wives.  They surrounded theirselves with really good putters, too.  They chose their wives very well.  You know, I tried to do exactly the same thing.

It is absolutely a thrill for me to be here tonight.  I cannot tell you how proud I am going in with my good friends.  There are a number of people that are in this Hall of Fame that I consider very, very close friends, people that I would be honored to go to dinner with any night of the week.  I would love to be there with them.  I am very proud, very pleased, and I cannot thank you enough.

Thank you.


GARY PLAYER:   Charlie, you've been selected to the Lifetime Achievement category.  Welcome to the Hall of Fame.  Ladies, tonight's final inductee, the inimitable Charlie Sifford.

CHARLIE SIFFORD:  Well, going behind that fellow called Arnold Palmer, I tell you, it was tough.  But having friends like Arnold Palmer, Jack Nicklaus, Gary Player, Lee Trevino, Walter Morgan, Jim Dent, Calvin Peete, all those guys, you don't know how I feel.  People like Greg Norman and all those great players.  You have to go along with me (tearing up).  This is tough, I'm telling you (laughter).

Greg Norman and all those great players I was fortunate enough to be in their company, play with them.  Never was a player like they were, but I appreciate all of them accepting me (tearing up).  You going to have to forgive me because this is touching.  A little old caddie boy from Charlotte, North Carolina, come from a very poor family, out there running up and down the road behind this little white ball, and getting inducted into the greatest hall, the World Hall of Fame.  How 'bout it?  It makes me feel like I'm a worthwhile professional golfer.  I did my best.

I had a lot of people with me.  My family, my oldest son.  Whew.  My two sons, two daughter in laws, and three grandkids, and the boss isn't here (crying).  Without Rose, helped me along the way.  You show me a successful man, I show you a wonderful wife.  Arnold Palmer, Wendy, Jack Nicklaus, Gary Player, all those guys, I know those guys, but they had a beautiful wife, somebody that go along with them, help them when they get in trouble, talk to them, understand when they leave, they were safe, then worry about them.  All they know, they was going out there, get some money and bring it home, yeah.

But I feel quite honored.  I know you don't know how I feel.  This is something else.  I started out in this game, I wanted to do five things:  I wanted to win a golf tournament, I wanted to play in the National Open, I wanted to play in the US Open, I wanted to play in the Masters, and I wanted to get in the Hall of Fame.  Well, I got four out of five, so...  I think the World Hall of Fame is much greater than the Masters.

And my friend out there, Lee Elder, thank you.  Lee won a tournament in 1974.  He was invited to play in the Masters.  And he did a good job.  I'm so proud of a lot of guys.  Walter Morgan, Calvin Peete, Jim Dent, Jim Thorpe, you're doing a good job.

I just wish I was younger where I could be out there playing.  When I was playing, I was under quite a lot of pressure.  A lot of things that I had to do.  I had to be sure there were no rules broken.  I had to be sure that I had a caddie wasn't going to break the rules for me.  Then I had to be sure whoever come up and interfere with my game, that I could be cool enough to brush 'em off.  And I did that job.

And I knew that Greensboro was the first time I played in the south in a PGA tournament.  It was really tough.  But people like Sam Snead, Gary Player always been in my corner.  I felt so sorry for Gary Player down in Dayton.  Bus load of people that came up there, and they poured water on the young man.  He stood there and took it.  He's been my man ever since.  And I really wanted to do something about it, but I couldn't.  But I give him credit for standing up there and taking it.

Talking about South Africa.  He had nothing to do with that.  They didn't want him over here playing golf, but he played anyway.  And he's my man forever.  We always have been friends.

I tell you about Arnie.  First time I met Arnie, was tournament was in Canada.  I was working for Billy Eckstein in Chicago.  Teddy Rhodes came out there.  He wanted to go to Canada to play in the Canadian Open.  He didn't have any money.  Billy Eckstein gave me some money to take Teddy to Canada to play in the Canadian Open.  I didn't know anything about playing any golf.  I could hit the ball, I knew where my ball was going because I had that right to left.  I knew where it was going.  I'd take out the right side of all the golf courses.

So I get up.  I go out there this day and I shoot 63.  I heard about Arnie winning all these tournaments, amateur tournaments.  Arnie shoots 64.  So Arnie ran off the 18 green, ran up to the score board.  All these Canadian people, they was speaking French.  I didn't know what they was talking about (laughter).  Arnie run up there.  Arnie say, "Charlie Sifford.  How in the hell did he shoot 63?"  So I turned right around.  I didn't know who Arnie was.  I said, "The same damn way you shot 64."  That's how we met.  We've been friends ever since.  My man Arnie.  Yes, sir.

I want to tell you, this is a great honor.  I hope someday that there will be some more Afro Americans in the game, such as Lee Elder, Calvin Peete, Bill and Teddy Rhodes.  There's a lot of you that don't know about Teddy Rhodes, but he's the one.  I took the fight up for Teddy Rhodes.  He was a wonderful man.  And I want to thank everybody that had anything to do with my selection to come in the Hall of Fame.

All the writers.  When the Commissioner called me, I thought he was pulling my leg, you know.  He called me.  The phone rang.  I picked up the phone.  "This is Tim Finchem."  I thought, "What have I done now?"  I want to thank the Champions Golf that give us five years.  You understand, and two years would be good.  We played five years, we get a nice little pay for the five tournaments.  I thought, "Oh, my Lord, I blew that?"

He said, "Charlie, we're going to put you in the Hall of Fame.  You got a lot of followers.  We going to put you in the Hall of Fame."  I swear I didn't believe it.  But the five months I had to wait to get here were the toughest five months out of the whole 50 some years.  I couldn't drive my car fast.  I had to cut my speed down.  I would go across the street, I'd walk slow, I'd look around.  Boy, I want to be damn sure I'd be here tonight (laughter).

It sure is a pleasure to be inducted with the four individuals.  Tom Kite and I have been along for a long time.  Aoki, I've been understanding him a long time.  We understand each other well.  Aoki don't understand me and I don't understand him (laughter).  But that's my friend.

And Marlene, I heard of her.  I never met her before.  But, man, does she have a record.  I saw her hitting the ball the other day.  In her young days, she had to be mean, because she go at it like old Greg Norman.  She goes at the ball.  Indeed it is a pleasure to be inducted with you wonderful people.

Man, I'm in the Hall of Fame, the World Hall of Fame.  Don't forget that now!  I'm in the World Hall of Fame with all the players.  That little old golf I played was all right, wasn't it?

I want to thank you very much.  I want to thank a lot of people in Ohio, where I live now, Cleveland, Ohio.  The golf clubs up there that invite me to come play.  I got two or three courses up there.  I'm a member at Quail Hollow.  I want to thank all those pros out there for being nice to me, accepting me.  I played out at the Beachwood, a Jewish club.  You know, I'm Jewish already?  You know that, don't you?  That's my favorite spot (laughter).  I'm there all the time.  I want to thank all the pros and the members there because when they see out there, you understand, I have a guy watching me play.  I'll be practicing.  That little old ball ain't going nowhere now.  My little old ball is so short now your head hit the ground.  But they still think I can play.

I want to thank all of you for taking time out of your busy time and coming out and spending this afternoon with me and this great honor.  It don't get any better than this, please believe me.

Old Nick Price out there.  That's my man.  I want to thank all of you.  I had a wonderful time.  Thank you, Commissioner, Arnold Palmer, Gary Player, all of you.  May God bless you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT