FC DALLAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 29, 2016
Oscar Pareja
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








New York Red Bulls - 4, FC Dallas - 0
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. You've had some really lopsided losses.  Can you explain the kind of Jekyl and Hyde type of performances?
COACH PAREJA: Very unbalanced performances this year so far this year.  In 10 games, five times away.  Two of them we scored three goals, then DC United 3-0.  Then we went to a difficult place in Portland and beat them 3-1.  That could be more.  But we went to Houston and...
Q. ...got clobbered.
COACH PAREJA: Exactly, 5-0.  Then Vancouver in the same week, 3-0 Vancouver.  And today 4-0.  It could be more.
So very unbalanced.  I'm obviously not just responsible but worried about it.  It just tells me that the league is tremendously competitive, and secondly that we fight the team at the best level.
Q. Your team came out seeming a little flat.  They were all over you in the first half.
COACH PAREJA: I know.  The intention wasn't just to park the bus in the back.  The intention was just to come and look for them.
I'm going to tell you, New York were much better than us in every area.  I thought New York just dominated from the first minute through the last one.  I mean, we didn't have answers for New York.  They played very well tonight.
Q. You haven't played Jesse since the first game.  Was there a reason to put him in today?
COACH PAREJA: Has been working.  Jesse went to the national team, then Seitz was in the goal, and he played really well two, three games.
I thought today was a good game for him to come back in the lineup.  That's the game, you know.  I always say, we always just prepare.  I have said this enough.  I back them up.  That's the way they grow.
Q. Are you concerned about his confidence, particularly that one goal?
COACH PAREJA: Those are the lessons that make us grow, you know?  Has happened before.  They need to observe it and grow.  But they need somebody to back them up.
Q. Seemed like you didn't show your usual energy today.
COACH PAREJA: They were much better in that area every minute in every area tonight.  We did not have answers.  I thought New York did a great job today.  New York was superior in every sense of the game.  We could not defend them.  Since the first minute, they came at us.  They were flashy, and they outnumbered us in the middle.
We could not get the ball back.  When we got the ball back, eventually we were not fine with it, we lost it again.  We couldn't explode.  We couldn't hurt them at any point.
They would get the ball back and would hurt us again.  I mean, I could see they had a large amount of options, and they deserved it.  It's one of those days where you find a team that is sharp and much, much better than us.  We did not have answers for them.
Q. You've had some good results this year, but some pretty bad ones.  Is there any kind of feeling in those matches that you look at and are worried about, that you've had three of these earlier?
COACH PAREJA: Right.  We're a team that we attack, we put people up front.  Then we get exposed in the back, the two games, in Houston and Vancouver.  In Vancouver, we have a great number of options to score more than them, and we didn't have any effectiveness there.  Houston was the worst game.
Today was all New York, all New York.  They played a different level today.  We did not play well, obviously.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT