NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: MARLINS v CUBS
October 10, 2003
Kerry Wood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Kerry, how difficult was it when you had to extend yourself?  I believe it was that 5th inning, or 6th, where you had to really extend yourself after you didn't get that borderline pitch of Redman to strike him out?

KERRY WOOD: I put myself in that situation.  I shouldn't be throwing borderline pitches to the opposing pitcher.  It took a little more out of me than I would even like for it to have, but I made a lot of pitches that I shouldn't have had to make.  But over the course of the game, I think it might have had a little effect.  It was pretty muggy out there.

Q.  Could you talk about pitching out of a couple of jams, particularly at that 5th inning jam when they got the bases loaded?

KERRY WOOD: Well, in these games you're going to get in jams.  A lot of times that's going to decide the outcome of the game, whether you can get out of those jams or you don't get out of those jams.  And fortunately tonight I was able to get out of a couple.  But one there in the 7th ended up costing me.

Q.  For the most part you had success against their one and two guys.  When you look at that lineup, how much of a priority is it keeping those two guys off the bases, and keeping them from scoring?

KERRY WOOD: You have to keep those guys off the bases.  They both steal bags, and go first and third on singles and speed is something that never slumps.  If they get on base, they're going to run.  Obviously with Pudge and Derrek hitting behind those guys, you have to keep those guys off the bases.

Q.  Can you run us through the emotions, the ups and downs when you're sitting in the dugout watching what's happening?

KERRY WOOD: I can tell you it's a lot more fun being out there than it is sitting in the dugout watching it.  It's nerve-wracking.  But these are fun games, and this is what postseason is all about.  It's been up and down with these guys through the series, and I expect nothing different through the rest of the series.

Q.  What makes this team so focused on the road?  It's been a great road team all year, and games like this in the past Cub teams have always lost late and you have a tendency to be able to pull it out?

KERRY WOOD: I'm not real sure.  I think the core of guys we have here, we've got a great group of guys that have been in this situation before.  It's either step it up and win the games or we're going to go home, so I think that's the way we look at it. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT