NL DIVISION SERIES: CUBS v BRAVES
October 4, 2003
Kerry Wood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Kerry, pitchers are such creatures of habit.  I don't know if you've ever had to do it, and you're not going to have to, but how hard is it to go on three days rest?

KERRY WOOD: This time of year, you put that stuff aside and realize what's at stake and be able to do it.  I don't think you can make a habit of it, but it changes your routine a little bit, but if you need to go in you've got to go do it.

Q.  How does it change your routine and physically how do you bounce back?

KERRY WOOD: You maybe just do a real light routine, but probably just don't throw, and just be ready to go again.  There is not much you can do in between starts with three days.  You kind of recover and get ready to go.

Q.  There was a lot of questions about the Cubs going into this series, but can you talk about the resolve and determination of the team?

KERRY WOOD: Even the game we lost, we were down and we were able to get a run off one of the best closers in the game.  That shows we're not giving up no matter what adversity is thrown our way.  We've done that all year long, and hopefully we'll continue to do that.

Q.  Are you ready to pitch tomorrow if you have to?

KERRY WOOD: Obviously I'm ready to pitch tomorrow.  Until this game's over and we know the outcome of it, I'm ready to go.

Q.  Can you talk about Mark last night?

KERRY WOOD: He was awesome last night. It was fun to watch.  He did what he did for us all year long, come out and take control of the game and dominate it.  He did again last night.  It was fun to watch.  He was outstanding.

Q.  I don't know what time you guys left the park but did you check out the scene outside the ballpark, and what do you expect if you continue to go on?

KERRY WOOD: I expect the same.  The fans have been in a playoff-winning drought for quite a few years.  They're all excited and we're excited as players.  It's fun to walk out of the stadium and hear thousands of people out there cheering.  I expect it to get even bigger and better. 

Q.  If you don't pitch tomorrow, do you know when you're going to pitch?  Would it be Game 1 of the next series?

KERRY WOOD: We haven't gotten that far yet.  Best case scenario, we can talk about that tomorrow.

Q.  A lot has been made of the Cubs postseason, but the Braves have had their problems in postseason too.  Do you sort of think you're on an equal footing with them in that regard?

KERRY WOOD: We would like to look at it that way.  They know  what it takes to get here and you can't count this team out at all.  Hopefully we can go out and get a couple runs early.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

KERRY WOOD: I think we will want to.  I don't think we talk about it a whole lot, especially in the last month and a half or two months.  It would be nice, but like I said, we don't sit around and talk about it. 

Q.  Will you talk about being the media darling here and what extra bit of work it is for all you guys, dealing with the celebrities down in the locker room and movie stars all over the place?

KERRY WOOD: It's not much of a change for us.  We get celebrities and actors all the time.  It's fun, but they usually get the feeling of when it's game time, the tenseness in the clubhouse, and they say their good-byes and get out, but it's fun.  We got a chance to talk with Jordan a little bit last night.  It was a good time.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

KERRY WOOD: We didn't get into that conversation, but it was good to see he was there supporting us.

Q.  We've all seen on the field the contributions of the so called Pittsburgh three.  Can you talk about what they've meant on and off the field?

KERRY WOOD: Obviously, we thought we had a good team coming out of Spring Training, and these guys have been great for us.  They're probably a big  -- they're not probably.  They're a big reason why we're in the situation we're in.  Last night they all came out and were ready to play.  They have been great for us, and hopefully they will continue to play well.

Q.  Whether you pitch tomorrow or the next series, do these games feel any different to you?

KERRY WOOD: Definitely.  You know it's playoff time.  There is no doubt about it.  There is no similarities to the regular season game when you go out on the mound.  This is why we play the game.  We want to be in these situations.  We know our stage is out there and we're ready to go. 

Q.  What is different for you from '98.  How does it compare to '98 for you?

KERRY WOOD: For me, I think me and Sammy are the two left, it's different for me from my standpoint because the team expected to be here this year.  '98 I think we were a little surprised.  I know everybody in the city was surprised to make the postseason.  We were out in three games.  This year we expect to win and go further and hopefully we can take care of business.

Q.  Kerry, a lot of made about the crowd in Atlanta when you pitched the first time.  If you have to make the quick turnaround, maybe there won't be as many Cub fans.  Did they mean something for you the first game, and how will it be?

KERRY WOOD: When we go to Atlanta, we have fans that follow us all over.  The way they were it was awesome out there.  It almost felt like a home game.  There was a lot of Cubs fans there.  It was nice to see.  I expect the same if we have to go back tomorrow.  Like I said earlier, I think they would take that extra one-day trip to go be a part of it.  If it happens, it should be fun. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT