NL DIVISION SERIES: CUBS v BRAVES
September 30, 2003
Kerry Wood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  In the fourth inning with the bases loaded, you looked like you wanted to really hit a long ball.  Did you feel the same way in the sixth?

KERRY WOOD: I really just tried to put it in play somewhere.  After the first ball I had a pretty good idea he was going to throw me a fast ball.  Fortunately for us, it worked.

Q.  Just before your big hit, they failed to turn a double-play on a ground ball.  How important was that?

KERRY WOOD: It was huge.  Fortunately for us, he didn't make the play, and I was able to put mine in the gap. 

Q.  Did that help relax the team or help relax you?

KERRY WOOD: Well, I don't know if you ever get relaxed in these type games.  I think we felt a little more confident.  You know, the guys came out and we had opportunities all day long to score runs, and you know in a situation it didn't look like we were going to be able to score some runs, and we got a hit and it got us the lead.  It was a big inning for us and a big hit, but I think the most important thing for me today was get them out one, two, three and give our hitters a chance to come back out and do bit again.

Q.  Is there anything in your mind that when the team is struggling to score taking things into your own hands?

KERRY WOOD: No, I mean, I'm a pitcher.  My job is to pitch, but in the National League, you know, pitchers sometimes handle the bat.  It keeps you in the game longer.  No, I wasn't trying to do anything special there.

Q.  Would you talk about the success of your breaking ball, when hitters are looking for your fast ball?

KERRY WOOD: I think that's all set up by getting ahead of guys, and I did a little bit of that today.  It's got me out of a lot of jams.  Tonight it almost got me in a jam.  I knew that kind of going in, but I was willing to take my chances with it and I'll take the blame for it.  Fortunately, they did a great job and Farnsworth came in and got us out of the inning.


Q.  Have you made a backhanded stab like the fielding play?

KERRY WOOD: I made a couple in the minor leagues not in the big leagues.

Q.  Talk about the groove your in right now following the came in Cincinnati and tonight?

KERRY WOOD: I have had confidence for a while, and I've just been feeding off of it.  Everything feels good and the mechanics feel good.  I'm really just sticking with it and going after guys.

Q.  You looked emotionally and physically in charge tonight from the start.  Did you feel that way?

KERRY WOOD: Not really from the start.  I think, you know, it probably started just playing catch in the outfield with the crowd going, a little weak knees in the bullpen.  I felt pretty good going out for the third inning but the first two felt a little shaky for me. 


Q.  Did your two-run double lead to any momentum for you on the mound?

KERRY WOOD: Not really.  I knew after I got the hit, I didn't get a chance to sit down until the inning was over and I had to go out and pitch.  I was concentrating on catching my breath from running the bases.

Q.  What did you think of the crowd tonight?

KERRY WOOD: I heard a lot of can you be fans out there.  They have been following us all year.  It was great to here them again tonight. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT