SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 27, 2018
Corey Connors
Malory Connors
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Here with the newlywed Connors.  Corey, what has it been like over the last seven days to go from your wedding in Ontario all the way down here at the top of the leaderboard?  
COREY CONNORS: Yeah, I don't know if she was too excited about me taking her here for the honeymoon.  Yeah, it feels great to be married.  There was a lot of planning that was involved.  Had an amazing day.  It was really special with family and friends.   
Yeah, just kind of a lot weight off the shoulders.  Nothing to worry about now.  Excited to be here just playing golf.   
 Q.  He's saying all the right things, isn't he, Malory?  
MALORY CONNORS: I know..   
 Q.  You've been along for the entire ride all the way back to the Latino American Tour.  What's it been like to be right by his side the whole way?  
MALORY CONNORS: It's been really special.  I mean, I just started traveling this past year after six years of long distance, so cheering him on from afar.   
It's really special to get to be with him right behind the ropes and cheering him on from here.   
 Q.  Let's talk a little golf now.  The course conditions were a lot different.  It really dried up.  How did the course play today?  
COREY CONNORS: Yeah, it played definitely a little bit different.  The sun was shining so the greens were a little bit firmer.  Expect it to continue for tomorrow.  The course is in awesome shape.  The greens are rolling really, really well.   
Was finally able to get the putter working today and rolled in a bunch of putts.  Definitely the contributor to the low round today.   
 Q.  What a round of golf.  You've got to be very pleased.  You went out and just kept it going all day along.  
COREY CONNORS: Yeah, that was definitely the goal.  Over the past few days I was hitting the ball really well and kind of knew the putter would come around.  The greens here are really nice, and was able to roll in a nice putt on the 1st hole and got the round going.   
Just tried to keep the pedal down.  I was hitting the ball really well, so just tried to stay aggressive.  Didn't hit quite as many fairways towards the end, but I was able to still score the ball pretty well.   
 Q.  It really was a putting display:  114 feet of putts today.  Dennis Paulson who is in our studio says, How does a guy go from 106 in strokes putting the first day to 101 to first?  How did you do it?  
COREY CONNORS: Yeah, it's funny.  Yesterday at the end of the round I kind of found something with my grip, just trying to feel the putter swing a little bit better the last few holes.   
I was struggling quite a bit the first two rounds.  Was excited about the feeling I found, and knew if I kept hitting the ball well I could start rolling it.  Yeah, had a good warmup this morning on the range; kind of groved the field.  Stuck with it all day and rolled it really well.   
 Q.  You did.  Putter was awesome.  And you got married last week.  Malory is here with you.  How cool is that?  How cool would it be to win with her here?  
COREY CONNORS: It would be really special to have her here and win.  Yeah, it's been great.  We had an awesome wedding, and kind of excited to have it over with so we can start a new chapter in our lives.   
She's my biggest fan, and it's awesome to have her here with me.   
 Q.  She walked all the way.  I think she knows the yardage before you do.  
COREY CONNORS: I think so.  She was out there the first two days as well with her rain jacket and hood up on Thursday.  She had to borrow my rain jacket on Friday.  She was shivering out there.   
She doesn't miss a hole.  It's awesome to have her out there cheering me on.   
 Q.  Of course you're from Canada so you just had short sleeves on, right, yesterday?  
COREY CONNORS: A light jacket.  I'm from Canada, but doesn't mean I like the cold.  A little more used to it but still needed a little sweater.   
 Q.  Having been in contention at the Valspar earlier.  How much will you draw on that experience tomorrow?  
COREY CONNORS: Yeah, definitely a lot to draw off.  Learned a few things.  Definitely a little bit tighter than I would've liked in that round; struggled on the greens a little bit.   
Actually learned a lot the following week as well at the Dominican.  I was in the final group just in contention with Brice Garnett and learned a lot from watching him.  He played really well on Sunday.  He was just really calm.  Kind of took things slow.  Stuck to his game plan.  Didn't do anything special.   
Definitely took a lot from that experience as well watching how he did it.  I think that'll definitely be key.  Have to be relaxed out there; have fun.  I'm hitting the ball great and putted really well today.  Just keep doing what I been doing and see what happens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT