NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 18, 2016
Kyle Snyder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Kyle, if you want to make a general statement about your match tonight?   
KYLE SNYDER: It was a tough match.  Ty Walz is a good opponent.  Haven't wrestled him in a while.  We used to practice together, but first time I wrestled him in competition.  So it was fun.  Probably sat around on the hand side a little too much, but got a couple take downs.  So that was good.   
 Q.  Kyle, this match was closer.  You've blown everybody else's doors off.  You beat Amarveer pretty good today.  You look at this match was this a good warm-up and test for Nick tomorrow?  
KYLE SNYDER: Yeah, I think it is good -- well, sorry about that.  I mean in the NCAAs it's cool because each round you're supposed to wrestle somebody a little bit tougher and I like that build-up to where round 1, a little easier match, 2, 3, 4, 5 the kind of match everybody wants to see and the match I want to wrestle the most.  I like how that goes.   
I wouldn't call Ty Walz' a warm-up.  I would say he's a good wrestler and it was good to wrestle him and hopefully we can wrestle again soon.   
 Q.  I know you have had training camps and worked out with Nick quite a bit.  Talk about the kind of wrestler he was when you had the ability to practice with him and what you expect in the match.  You guys weren't in the same weight class at that time.  What that experience was like and what you expect?  
KYLE SNYDER: Yeah, so, we weren't -- we're actually pretty good friends.  We trained together a lot this summer.  He comes up to Ohio State and trains, a decent amount last year and we made the decision we were texting back and forth to see how each other was doing and he's a good guy and we didn't think we were going to wrestle each other.   
So we threw the kitchen sink at each other and let it all go, so I feel like we have a good feel for each other and I know he is a good game planner.  So I know he's going to have a game plan for me, and I just want to make it a wrestling match.  I want to get in wrestling positions and I feel like if I can get into lots of wrestling positions I'll come out on top.  I'll win the majority of them.   
 Q.  Kyle, back to the strategies the other day we talked about your low single how effective it is.  He says you have other things.  Why is it the low single that always seems to be -- especially against bigger guys?  
KYLE SNYDER: I actually don't shoot the low single anymore, so if he is listening, so don't watch out for it tomorrow.  It is one of my favorite shots.  I feel like I have a lot of value in it and I feel like I can get to it on most guys and I like the high crotch, too, so I shoot a lot.  I just have to keep my offensive pace going forward and I like shooting a lot.  So that's what I'm going to try to do tomorrow.   
THE MODERATOR: We want to congratulate Kyle Snyder.  Good luck tomorrow night.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT