CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 26, 2016
Patrick Murphy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How proud are you of Jaclyn, minus-5, she makes the cut?  
PATRICK MURPHY: Yeah, I just said to her dad, it's one thing to make the cut in your first ever LPGA event but throw your names in and mix it up with the best in the world, it's cool.  Like I've known Jaclyn since I was her height, and it's awesome.  She hits it so well.  She's so calm and collected.  She acts like a true professional out there.  It's awesome.   
 Q.  How do you help her out there?  
PATRICK MURPHY: I think early on in the tournament the biggest thing was since I know her so well that I could help her out by relaxing her and making her laugh a little bit.  Read a few putts with her just so she was really confident in what she was doing.   
But as she settled in she became confident on her own, and for the most part now I'm just reassuring her that the decisions she's making are correct.  So she's really come into her own in two days, which is pretty impressive.   
 Q.  Yeah, how much is this going to help her moving forward just knowing she can compete with the best in the world?  
PATRICK MURPHY: I mean, we played with an Olympian and Solheim Cupper, and she's higher up on the leaderboard than both of them right now.  I mean, it's two rounds, but two rounds goes a long way when it's your first two.   
Like to go out and like Jared this summer at the Men's Open at Glen Abbey.  He came back and said, now I know what it takes.  Jaclyn now knows what it takes.  She said if I can play like this, I can make the cut.  The golf course is playing exceptionally difficult.  The golf course is long, the greens are firm and quick, and she's 5-under par.  That's really, really good playing.   
 Q.  Have you caddied before?  
PATRICK MURPHY: I've caddied once in a PGA TOUR Canada event, and I caddied once for a friend and that's about it.   
 Q.  Is it pressure for you?  
PATRICK MURPHY: I think so.  It was more about not wanting to get in front of Lizette Salas and Julieta Grenada and say these women are doing this for a living.  You know, I don't want to mess this up.  But then I realized we play college golf and they're just one step above us.  So it wasn't too different.  It was nice.   
 Q.  Knowing the greens, does that help you here?  
PATRICK MURPHY: Well, I think just knowing the altitude, knowing the kind of grass, the bentgrass and the firmness of these greens.  Glencoe is a good proving ground.  I think there's something in the water because everybody seems to be over there playing well.  But maybe it is because the forest is such a tough track.  So, yeah, it was good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT