NBA DRAFT
June 24, 2010
Xavier Henry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  No. 12 Selection, Memphis Grizzlies  
  
  Q. Your thoughts?   
 XAVIER HENRY: First of all, I would like to thank God and my family and friends, without them, I wouldn't be the same person I am today and the same person I went through.  
 I want to thank the staff for having faith and choosing me to be here today.   
  
  Q. Memphis has improved a lot, of course, and they have a lot of talent. Talk about how you are looking to include your perimeter shooting and your athleticism and bring it to the table and help Memphis make the playoffs?   
 XAVIER HENRY: I'm going to take the same approach as I took to college: Kansas was a great team and I knew if I came in there and worked hard and kept my work ethic and kept my focus, I could compete for a spot at any time.  
 When I get to Memphis, first day, hard work, and just play hard and just make sure I keep my attitude the same and keep positive influences and just -- I think that's the key to anything, as long as I work hard and I try my hardest and I give it all, things will take care of itself and that's what I'm looking to do when I go to Memphis.   
  
  Q. The talent of the Kansas Jayhawks, talk about how that has helped you, to be able to propel your game in the one year?  
 XAVIER HENRY: I think it helped me a lot and I think it helped me in a different way than you think. It boost me up and put me back into a little role that I had to play with two All-Americans in my team and I think that helped me more stay humble rather than thinking that I had to get 25 every night and I learned from those players, it was good to step back. I think coming to the NBA, there's always going to be other stars around you and I can fill whatever role the coaches needs and I can excel at it and that's what I'm going to try to do.  
  
  Q. Cole mentioned he was starting to get nervous around 9 or 10 and I saw you looking at your brother, eyebrows and stuff; what were you feeling around that point?  
 XAVIER HENRY: Yeah, 9 is where it all opened up. I had great workouts from 9, 10, through about 15 or so, and I knew I had a great chance in going around then, and then they took a couple of guys before. We had question marks on when they took them, so me and my brother, we were just calm but we were just thinking, okay, so where did I do best, next, and where are my next best options to go.   
 Thankfully Memphis took me at the 12 spot and I'm happy to be here.  
  
  Q. That's probably one you couldn't be upset with.   
 XAVIER HENRY: Yeah, me and Cole, he's one of my best friends in the whole world and I've had fun with him over the summer and I've got to see him a lot. I'm happy for him, it's like a one-two punch from Kansas, 11 and 12.  
  
  Q. Are you ready to perform more than what you've done at Kansas?   
 XAVIER HENRY: I came out, I had great workouts, everybody pinned me as a great three-point shooter and a great role player who is coachable. I'm all those things but that's mostly what I had to do at Kansas.  
 In the workouts I set out to be the most aggressive player and that's what I did, I was always the most aggressive and most assertive and I made it a point to get to the hole and convert and that's why I knew I would do really well in the Draft because I knew I would slide in guys ahead of me or beside me, because I showed that I could play and compete.   
  
  Q. You almost went to school in Memphis, so I'm guessing you're familiar with the city. Are you looking to now playing there professionally?  
 XAVIER HENRY: Yeah, I'm looking forward to it. I was supposed to be there a year ago playing in college and coaching changes, I went to Kansas but I don't regret going to Kansas. But now going to Memphis, feels like I should be there and I'm going to be happy to be there. I'm going to give it my all as soon as I step in the city.   
 I'm just grateful I get to go there.   
  
  Q. You said you almost went to Memphis; one of the new NBA markets where college is more popular than the NBA. How much do you know about the city?   
 XAVIER HENRY: I know a lot about the city, just from taking visits when I was going to school. I probably took about six or seven visits. My brother went to school at Memphis before he went to Kansas and I committed and signed for Memphis because I knew I was going to go to school there. I know about the city and I'm going to stay away from the ribs and barbeque because I have to keep my body right. But everything from music to all of the history about Memphis, I know a little bit about it.  
  
  Q. Have you been to Graceland?   
 XAVIER HENRY: No, I haven't been to Graceland.   
  
  Q. Who had the better outfit tonight, you or Wes 0Johnson?  
 XAVIER HENRY: Mine looked better; Wes is way more creative. Threw me off. I didn't know if he had pajama pants or are they sleeping pants or sweat pants or something. He pulled it off. He had a top to match it. He looked good tonight. Whoever did his shoot, he should tell them thank you.  
  
  Q. In your opinion, what other suits did you like tonight?  
 XAVIER HENRY: I liked John Wall's suit, a nice shade of blue; Cole's suit -- we got them done by the same people so they are similar. I think everybody came out happy for a great occasion.   
  
  Q. Now this is a revelation: Is there actually an NBA tailor that we have been unaware of? I thought it was like fashion week and designers competing for your attention. Is there one place where you go?   
 XAVIER HENRY: Not one place. There's a place we go that have history of making Draft suits and we like the material they use so we use them and stuff.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT