MLB WORLD SERIES: YANKEES v DIAMONDBACKS
November 4, 2001
Bob Brenly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How impressed were you with what Randy was able to give you tonight and what was the dialogue there between you? 
 
BOB BRENLY:   Well, Randy told us he was good for an inning tonight and we got an inning and a third out of him.   He said it all along, it's the seventh game of the World Series, he's not going to play winter ball this year so there's nothing to save it for.  He came to the ballpark today ready to pitch.  We tried to map out as much of a game plan as we could as far as getting his stretching done and getting ready to go to the bullpen and then warming up and coming into the ballgame, as if it was the first pitch of the game because he is a starter and he's not used to getting up and getting in quickly.  So we planned ahead, got him loose so he was ready to come in there when we needed him. 
 

Q.  Did you ever think about the fact that you guys outplayed the Yankees so well but  -- was there a sense of frustration throughout the series?
 
BOB BRENLY:   That's the game of baseball.  I felt that we outplayed them.  They came up with the big hits, though and that's what baseball is all about:  Good pitching, good defense and timely hitting.  Their pitching was fantastic for the most part.  Their defense was good.  But they got the timely hits when they needed them at Yankee Stadium and fortunately tonight we were able to come up with the most timely of hits.  
 

Q.  Would you talk about your use of Schilling while you had to go back out for the eighth and why you took him out when you did? 
 
BOB BRENLY:   Like I told you out on the field he was still throwing great, his velocity was good, his location was good.  I asked Miller "Is he doing okay; do you see any signs that he is losing anything?"  And Damian said, "No, he's throwing great."   When I asked Curt, he said he was fine.  We thought about pinch-hitting for him leading off that inning, but I just didn't see a reason to take him out.  He was dealing, and I was content with that. I mean, the pitch that Soriano hit, that was a split finger that nearly bounced in the dirt and Damian Miller was going down to block the thing and he just golfed it out of there.  That was a good pitch.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT