NL DIVISION SERIES: CARDINALS v DIAMONDBACKS
October 14, 2001
Bob Brenly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Talk about your emotions today in the clubhouse.
 
BOB BRENLY: Basically, as boring as this sounds, it's been like every other day in the clubhouse.  That's been the strength of our clubhouse, our day-to-day, grind-it-out attitude.  We don't let yesterday's or tomorrow's game enter into what we have to do today.  It basically felt the same other than we had Krispy Creams and pizza today.  Some of the guys were getting up and some were getting ready for lunch. 
 
Q.  Schilling and Morris were outstanding in Game 1.  The stakes are now higher.  Can you tell us what you expect to see?
 
BOB BRENLY: You would certainly expect to see more of the same.  I mean, Curt Schilling has proven this season, and throughout his career, he loves the spotlight, he loves the big game, he wants to be the guy on the mound in a must-win situation.  And for a younger guy, I think Matt Morris kind of relishes that attention as well.  These guys both pitched tremendous ball games in Game 1, and there is no reason to think they're both not going to go out there and do it again today.  I imagine every base runner is going to become the utmost important, trying to move guys around and try to get them on that plate, because you envision both these guys being as good as they were in Game 1. 
 
Q.  Bob, have you given any thought to your pitching rotation for the next series if you win today?
 
BOB BRENLY: Absolutely none.  I mean, everybody, except for Albie Lopez, is available to pitch today.  Randy Johnson will get stretched out and have his cleats on, he will be available out of the bullpen.  Miguel Batista will be available out of the bullpen.  It's an old cliche you hear, there is no reason to save anybody.  There is no tomorrow.  This is a must-win ball game if we want our season to continue.  We will do whatever we have to do with whoever we have to do it with. 
 
Q.  How soon would you send Randy Johnson if you had to?
 
BOB BRENLY: I don't know if I can predict that at this point.  It's really just going to depend on how the ball game progresses, how Curt is pitching.  And when that time comes, if it comes where we decide we need to take Curt out of the ball game, it will depend on who is coming up to hit on the Cardinals and how our guys match up against them.  I guess that's the best way I can answer that. 
 
Q.  Can you talk about pitching to Edmonds his first four games he had success?  What do you want to see out of your pitchers today?
 
BOB BRENLY: It's no secret.  Jim Edmonds is a high ball hitter, unusual for a left-handed hitter.  But he loves that ball up in the strike zone, and when you make mistakes up there, he hits them out of the ballpark.  We've made some mistakes up there, up and out over the plate up and in.  And when we've done that he's hit it very hard.  We need to do a better job executing against him, get the ball down in the strike zone and mixing it up, in and out, up and down, when you do go up, make sure it's a location he can't hurt you. 
 
Q.  What's Bobby Witt's status?
 
BOB BRENLY: For Game 3, Bobby showed up at the ballpark and was having spasms in the back of his shoulder, so he was basically unavailable for Game 3.  We had him up in the bullpen a couple of times in yesterday's ball game, but didn't get him in the game.  The spasms apparently subsided.  He is available to pitch. 
 
Q.  Did that have any impact on your choice for Game 4 starter?
 
BOB BRENLY  No. 
 
Q.  You used four different players in the cleanup spot in this series.  Can you remember any such team that's had such flexibility?
 
BOB BRENLY: I don't know if that's happened before.  Somebody would have to do some checking in box scores past, but as you know, Steve, you've been around our ball club all year long, we've done that consistently.  We've played the hot hand.  We've tried to stack a lineup where we feel we can put our best on-base percentage guys ahead of our hottest hitter and take our chances and right now Steve Finley is our hottest hitter. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT