NL DIVISION SERIES: CARDINALS v DIAMONDBACKS
October 12, 2001
Bob Brenly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Talk about the lineup changes you've made.
 
BOB BRENLY: We do have Danny Bautista playing right field batting fourth today.  The feeling is that the majority of the 2nd half every time we put Danny Bautista in the lineup, it energized the entire ball club.  Something good happened.  He either scored a run, he drove in a run, he made a great defensive play.  He energizes the rest of the team.  So Danny Bautista is in the fourth spot today, and Craig Counsell is moved into the 2nd spot and we moved Steve Finley down to the 7th spot.  We put Steve Finley in more of an RBI position, and Craig Counsell has been one of our better on-base percentage guys all year, so we made that flip as well. 
 
Q.  Is it your feeling that if your lead-off guys can get on base it will jump start your offense?
 
BOB BRENLY: We're hoping so.  Craig Counsell handles the ball very well. We've used him to hit and run and to bunt and run.  When he gets on base, he's got good enough speed to steal a base or score from first on an extra-base hit. Part of the reason we had Steve Finley in the two spot for the first couple of games is we were anticipating the moves that Tony would make with his bullpen.  And as you saw in Game 2, we hit for Steve Finley when he brought the lefty into the ball game.  Craig Counsell has good numbers against left-handed pitching this year, as does Luis Gonzalez. Rather than worrying about the moves Tony is going to make, we're going to put the lineup out there that we feel has the best chance. 
 
Q.  Can you talk about Albie Lopez and the pitcher he's been since he's joined you?
 
BOB BRENLY: He's had his ups and downs.  He had some very good starts when he first came over, he's had a couple of poor starts in the middle there, but he finished as good as any pitcher on our staff.  His last couple of starts were outstanding.  He's a very aggressive pitcher.  He likes to work off of his fastball.  And basically that's it.  He's thrown the ball very well for us.  He gave us exactly what we thought we were going to get when we made the trade for him. 
 
Q.  Are you looking at the weather report for tomorrow and is there any advantage there?
 
BOB BRENLY: We're more concerned about the weather report for tonight.  As to whether it's an advantage or disadvantage, I guess we would have to wait until the future to see.  Obviously, it could change the plans for both ball games should we get a rain out. 
 
Q.  All the free-swingers, during the season, are they paying the price now that they have to bunt or move a runner over and what's more important?
 
BOB BRENLY: I don't dispute the fact we are pretty much a free-swinging ball club.  That's what we did for the overwhelming majority of the year.  There were stretches of the season where we were a very patient hitting ball club, and I feel that's when we're at our best when we're willing to work deeper and give opposing pitchers an opportunity to get themselves in trouble.  Because of the veteran nature of our ball club and given their past histories, it's pretty tough to suddenly come into a playoff situation and change what they do.  We hope their aggressiveness is a little more intelligent and a little more selective. 
 
Q.  The same question for all three (Inaudible)?
 
BOB BRENLY:   When it gets to this point in the season, eight clubs left, there is a reason, it's because they have good pitching and in post-season, not that you eliminate the number four and five starters, but you're going to see numbers one, two, and three a lot more than you're going to see middle relievers and the bottom end of the rotation, runners are a premium, we've seen that in every series. 
 
Q.  If you win tonight, would you consider using Schilling Sunday?
 
BOB BRENLY: That's the game plan at this point.  If we win the ball game tomorrow, Albie Lopez will take the ball tomorrow and Curt Schilling will be available for Game 5.  Should it happen the other way, Curt Schilling and Randy Johnson have both altered their between-starts routine, so Schill would be available for Saturday, and Randy available for Sunday. 
 
Q.  Generally pitchers haven't fared well on three days' rest, is there something about Schilling that makes you think he would be better with that?
 
BOB BRENLY: I mean, it's just a gut feeling more than anything else, the way Schilling has pitched this season on regular rest, and Randy for that matter.  I hesitate to do  -- to make the change for either one of them, but extraordinary circumstances call for extraordinary measures and if that's something we have to do, we'll be willing to do that.  I would prefer to have it set up the way we hoped it would go, but if not we'll do the best we can and I'm sure Curt Schilling will go out there and give us everything he's got.  I guess that's the easiest way I can answer that. 
 
Q.  The fact that their pitch counts were not too high in the two games they have pitched already, is that a factor?
 
BOB BRENLY: It would definitely be a factor.  Obviously if Curt had been extended into the 130s and 140s in his pitch count the last time out, it would probably lessen the chance of bringing him back on short rest.  Because he was efficient with his pitches and kept the count down well.  It makes it an easier decision to bring him back if we have to. 
 
Q.  Do you like the Division Series at five games or do you think it should eventually be stretched to seven?
 
BOB BRENLY: That's a tough question.  I think I'll leave that for people better suited to make that judgment.  All I know is the Division Series is five games, so that's what we're going to deal with right now. 
 
Q.  As a former employee of the televising network here, how do you feel about the way a lot of people haven't seen a lot of these games across the country?
 
BOB BRENLY: That honestly doesn't concern me.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT