NL DIVISION SERIES: CARDINALS v DIAMONDBACKS
October 10, 2001
Bob Brenly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Talk about the decision to pinch hit for Steve Finley rather than Tony (Womack)?

BOB BRENLY: I just felt if we hit with Tony right here, it would leave us in a weakened position defensively for the rest of the ball game.  Finley had been warned if there were runners on base we were going to hit for him and that's the way we did it.

Q.  What does this do for your plans to use Batista?

BOB BRENLY: We still plan to pitch him in Game 3 on Friday.  Today was his normal throwing day.  He only threw eight pitches.  So he's good to go on Friday.

Q.  What was the proper play that should have been made on that one-hopper?

BOB BRENLY: Given the speed of the hitter, Robinson, I personally felt from my advantage felt we had Edmonds trapped on third base.  You take your chances with the next hitter.  But we told our infielders on a hard hit ball go ahead and turn two, slow hit ball, cut the run off at the plate and it was an in-betweener and he looked at the one base and got the one out.

Q.  Did you put the bunt on Womack?

BOB BRENLY: Yes, I put the bunt sign right there.  I just felt at that point in the ball game if we could score a couple of runs and turn it into a one-run ball game in the 9th inning, we had a chance to win that game, and that's why we did it.

Q.  Talk about the struggles of some of your hitters are having, especially Gonzo and Williams?

BOB BRENLY: I can say it in a couple of words.  Matt Morris and Woody Williams.  They pitched tremendous ball games.  I know it's frustrating for fans and it can be frustrating for players as well.  Our guys aren't trying to make outs with players in scoring positions, but the pitcher is trying to keep them from doing that.  The last couple of days, Matt Morris yesterday and Woody Williams today, whenever they got in trouble they were able to come up with their best pitches of the day.  I give all the credit to them.

Q.  Do you think the longer layoff with Randy affected him early in the ball game?

BOB BRENLY: I don't think so.  I thought he threw the ball very well today.  The first inning home run to Pujols was a 97-98 mile an hour fastball up and out.  He swung late and got the good part of the bat on it.  He hit it in the one part of the ball park where it would go out.  Tip your cap to a very strong hitter.  I didn't see any signs of suffering from the layoff.  I thought he threw the ball well.

Q.  Can you talk about Mike Morgan's status, how he is?

BOB BRENLY: I haven't talked to the trainers yet.  He instinctively stuck his bare hand to knock that grounder down and it hit him down toward the heel of the hand.  It was red by the time we got to the mound.  But I haven't talked to the trainers yet, I don't know what his status is.

Q.  You saw Woody Williams four times this year when he was with the Padres.  What did you see different tonight that made him dominant?

BOB BRENLY: It starts with Woody Williams with his competitive spirit.  This guy, I use the term that usually applies to position players, he is a gamer.  He'll give you everything he's got out there. Cut balls out there, and just outside to the right-handed hitter, he changed speeds just enough to keep us off balance, but more than anything else, it was the competitor in Woody Williams that allowed him to pitch the kind of game he did today.

Q.  Would you address Randy's 0-7 streak in the playoff?

BOB BRENLY: Once again, today, we didn't score a run until he was out of the ball game.  If you don't score you can't win.  I think it's unfair to point at that record and infer that somehow it's all Randy's doing.  He has pitched well enough in the majority of his post-season games to win those games if we score any runs for him.

Q.  Bob, they split against your two horses.  Does this give them an advantage going back to St. Louis?

BOB BRENLY: I don't think so.  I mean, you know, it just shortens it to a three game series.  Now I'm sure they're content with the way they came back today against Randy Johnson.  As we've said all year long, there is no carryover value from one day to the next.  We'll come out Friday and start fresh.

Q.  Would it be surprising if you'd make some changes in the lineup and if the series went longer would you be inclined to do some changes?

BOB BRENLY: You've been watching all year, would you be surprised if I made changes in the lineup?  Stay tuned.

Q.  Matt has gotten booed again.  Would you talk about that?

BOB BRENLY: I mean, I said last night when I was asked the same question, I said it was very hurtful.  He is a very proud man up there trying to do the best he can.  It's a very tough game to play under the best circumstances.  Matty is struggling a little bit and to hear that from his home fans is very discouraging.  I'm sure Matty will be on that plane to get to St. Louis where the boos will come from the enemies not the home fans.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT