ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 28, 2018
Jason Dufner
Pat Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Pat, you just kind of dunked everything on those last two holes.  Big one there at 17.  
PAT PEREZ: Yeah, it was just the last two.  Had a couple holes here and there.  Overall, you just do what you want to do.  On a best ball, you birdie the opposite hole.  It was fun.   
 Q.  Jason, you hit it in tight the last two holes; never got a chance to putt because Pat kept making everything.  There's nothing better than you not having to putt, is there?  
JASON DUFNER: Yeah, it's always good.  We played well today.  I think in this format it's the teams that can get those extra couple birdies; maybe throw in a 30-footer or what Pat did on 17.   
Everybody is going to have six or seven birdies and probably no bogeys if they're playing well.  So just to get those extra couple long ones to drop, I think that was a big key today.  Especially a little different than what we did on Thursday.   
 Q.  What are the thoughts on the different format going into Sunday?  Going to be playing foursomes, alternate shot.  
JASON DUFNER: Yeah, there is going to be a lot of big stress out there for some guys on that alternate shot.  You could see it yesterday, Friday cut day.  A little different than Thursday starting out with alternate shot.   
We'll see how it goes.  It will be new for us.  We've played some alternate shot.  Both of us have played the Shark Shootout a couple times and some of the team events, Ryder Cup and stuff like that, so I'm familiar with it.  See how to goes.   
 Q.  Pat, how you did you like the walk-up?  Was that fun?  Something different?  Were you thinking about it?  
PAT PEREZ: Yeah, it was all right.  We couldn't really get the song we wanted to, but it was fun.  I like to get it played it on 18 as you're walking up to the actual green.  I think that would be fun.   
You know, it's different.  I like it.  I would like to have it on the range all morning.   
 Q.  Pat, walk us through 17.  
PAT PEREZ: Yeah, I finally hit an iron straight.  Hit a green.  That was my main goal right out of the gate.  Didn't get as close as I wanted to, but always making a 50-footer is pretty exciting.   
It was nice to contribute a little bit.   
 Q.  Six birdies and an eagle on the back nine.  How did the momentum start and how did you guys carry that all the way through?  
JASON DUFNER: Yeah, I made an eagle.  I made about a 40-footer or 11 kind of up and over a hill from the side of the green.  That gets you going a little bit.   
We made a great save on 12.  We were kind of both in trouble.  So that keeps it going.  We actually threw in a bogey, too.  I don't know if we had a par on the back nine.   
PAT PEREZ: Probably not.   
JASON DUFNER: You know, those par saves are always big, but the eagles always help.  So, you know, it's just one of those things.  We were going to play good, shoot 7- or 8-under; just making those long ones make it a little bit better.   
 Q.  Tomorrow the format changes.  How does the stress level change with the format and it being the final round?  
JASON DUFNER: Hopefully a lot for most of the guys out here and not for us.  So we'll see.  It's a different format obviously.  I think a lot of people that watched yesterday kind of saw that; I think it was a little bit difficult for us.  We struggled.   
For the most part we were able to finish pretty strong, but final day, Sunday, last couple groups, guys are trying to win tournaments, and alternate shot is something new; it's kind of a curve ball in there.   
We'll see how the guys handle it.  A little bit depends on what the weather is going to do.  Pretty calm obviously makes it a little bit easier.  I think it's a good change in the format.  You can see some big separation.  Some guys shoot 3- or 4-under under.  Widen the gap a little bit.   
 Q.  Pat, what's your take on the alternate shot format tomorrow, and what you guys need to do to have success as a team?  
PAT PEREZ: I mean, (indiscernible) better shots than yesterday.  I been playing with Duf for 20 years.  I know his game; he knows my game.  We hit it similar distances.  Pretty much similar all the way around, so that makes it a lot more comfortable for us.   
We want to help each other out and hit good shots all the time.  So it puts bit of pressure there.  You don't want to put your partner in a bad spot or you always want to make the putts and stuff like that.   
But we're going to go and hit a shot and chase it, and whatever happens, happens.  There is no real pressure.  We know we want to help the other one out; so does everybody else.   
Just see how good we can do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT