QUICKEN LOANS NATIONAL
July 31, 2015
Pat Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  That's two runs rounds of 67.  11 birdies around you.  What's been the key?  PAT PEREZ: Not fairways.  I haven't hit any.  So, I don't know.  I've hit it close out of the rough and bunkers.  Working on some new stuff. The driver has just been -- I don't plan on hitting fairways.  It's kind of taken a little bit of stress out of it.  I've hit it in some better spots even though I missed the fairways but I've been able to get up and down. I've had a lot of good par putts that I've made.  The scrambling has been just the No. 1 for me, just scoring.  I've got kind of hitting mode and swinging mode.  That's basically been the key for two days.   Q.  That being said is there much change in the golf course condition?  It was very humid yesterday.  What is it playing like this morning?  PAT PEREZ: We had a little bit of wind.  The wind was a little different.  Like 18 we had 6-iron.  Yesterday we had, you know, we hit 8-iron out of the bunker.  18 is playing longer.  The longer holes were kind of downwind. Like 3 was down even though I hit it a mile left.  It's playing good.  Still -- the greens are soft so that's what's helping me out of the rough. Hit it in the rough last week you're dead.  This week it stops.  It's pretty fair.  Nice to see a little firmer but I don't think it's going to get that much firmer.   Q.  Good luck, man.  PAT PEREZ: Thanks, appreciate it.   Q.  I wanted to ask you briefly about 12.  One of the hardest holes yesterday, the par 4 that's almost 500 yards.  You birdied it today.  Is moving the pin back the difference?  PAT PEREZ: I just hit the fairway.  Took off.  I only had 6-iron.  Will McGirt hit 5-wood in there.  I hit a long enough, good enough drive to have a 6-iron in there and stopped.  It was early in the morning.  Green was soft.  It actually helped.   Q.  Is it as hard a hole as it played yesterday?  PAT PEREZ: I thought yesterday it was a lot easier than today.  The front pin is not that easy.  I don't know -- I don't even know how to play it.  That's one of those holes -- there are a couple holes out here you miss the fairway you're dead.   Q.  You've been able to recover.  PAT PEREZ: Yeah, but I had to make incredible up and downs to even do it.  I had to hit 5-iron into the bunker on 3 when most guys are hitting 7-irons to the pin. You know, the scrambling has been -- you can get away with it on some holes because some of the holes are shorter.  Like I missed the fairway on 5 and I hit 6-iron to 70 yards, got up and down. The next hole was the same thing, hit driver in the bunker but wedge to front pin.  Hit 9-iron out of the rough on the next hole and made birdie. It's not like you're trying to chop 6 and 5 irons out.  You can score if you miss the fairway.  Got to miss it in the right spots, hopefully.   Q.  Can you access this year for you and what you want to get out of the last few weeks?  PAT PEREZ: The ultimate goal is to win the Fed Ex.  I'm trying to get up to do as well as I can in the Fed Ex.  I've never been to the four championships in all the years.  Get in all the Majors and WGC.   Q.  11 straight cuts made now.  Solid.  You're pretty close.  PAT PEREZ: I made too many mistakes.  I made some bad mistakes here and there which is costing me better finishes.  I'm trying to eliminate them but I'm also doing a pretty big swing change for me that's -- it's kind of easy with the 7-iron down but once I get to the longer stuff, like the driver, I can't put it in there because I've done it my whole life. I've always created power the wrong way.  I'm trying to do it the right way now and I just don't have much expectation with the driver.  Yeah, it's been good.  The year has been somewhat consistent.  Just needs to get consistently higher up each week to catch these guys  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT