HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 22, 2015
Pat Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   It could have been much better, it seemed to be favor ring a lot of you guys, did you feel like you had this kind of game in you when you teed it off today?
PAT PEREZ:   Yeah, I had a great Sunday coming in from Hawaii. 

Q.   Did you feel like you had a 6‑under coming in?
PAT PEREZ:   I played good coming into Sunday and had some good practice over at Madison Club the last three days.   I missed a couple putts, but I made a long one and it was just a nice kind of nice quiet day.

Q.   Anything particular working for you?   Your irons, wedge, your driver?
PAT PEREZ:   Not necessarily, I mean, I'm hitting it in play, I'm hitting my irons where I'm looking, I made a couple putts, and it was just kind of a just kind of a nice clean day.   It was no real stress.

Q.   It's quiet out here.   Do you like that?   Is it sometimes too quiet for you?   Seems like it's a very peaceful environment you kind of got in a bit of a zone there?
PAT PEREZ:   It's nothing like that, it's just, it was just a nice day.   We had great partners and me and Cameron had a nice time, made a lot of birdies.   The weather is fantastic, I love the desert anyway it's just nice to be here.

Q.   Talk about the aspect of playing with the amateur sometimes it can be a bit of a burden for some people you had a good time out there?
PAT PEREZ:   It's never a burden for me.   These guys, every pro‑am we play in these guys are helping keeping our tournaments running, so I never feel a burden for that and we thank the amateurs all the time that help us out and keep these tournaments running and keep golf going and all that good stuff so we can have a great job to do.   I love having them.   My partner tomorrow is my partner at Pebble and Dunhill links and we're going to have a great time tomorrow.

Q.   Is it daunting that you're going to have to maybe possibly put another two or three of these kind of rounds together to be in the hunt on Sunday you kind of have to go low every day, don't you?
PAT PEREZ:   Believe it or not I've done this before, so, yeah, I know what it's all about and it's going to be 30‑under and that's obviously Patrick last year turned it on and I'm not surprised at what it takes. 

Q.   What are you working on coming into this year?
PAT PEREZ:   Shorter swing, getting more to the center of the face of the driver, keep it in play and putting, really. 
My swing's gotten too long, I've just gotten into bad positions and I've been out of play and today I was in play and like Sunday I did as well, in Hawaii, and kept it in play and made a couple putts and couple more putts, I would have shot 62 today, like nothing.   But it's nice to have that.

Q.   The days like you had like Sunday in Hawaii, are they a big deal still?
PAT PEREZ:   They're huge.   You go out ‑‑ I was 30th, and then you go out and shoot 75, you don't learn anything.   You come in, you go, now what do we do?   We finished 50th, we had a chance, didn't do anything.   But to put together a good day and birdie the last two holes and find some swing and all this other stuff, it's nice to bring that into a tournament.   It's nice to bring that with you and it's ‑‑ you just keep building.   I had a horrendous nine months and I'm trying to get back to where I think I should be and I think I'm on my way.

Q.   When you say horrendous nine months, was it?
PAT PEREZ:   A lot of things, I'm not going to talk about it.   You saw my practice, it was bad.   So I'm trying to get back to where I was at the start of last year. 

Q.   Do you feel like you've been able to overcome?
PAT PEREZ:   Yeah, I took a month off, I just wiped out everything.   I wiped out everything the that was in my brain and all the bad thoughts I had and swings and all that stuff and I just went away from it and I came back and I started with my coach Drew Strickland and started over from scratch and we're getting it in from.

Q.   Is he the one at the Madison Club where is he?
PAT PEREZ:   No, no, he's in Valencia.   I kind of got in with the group and he's really knowledgeable and he's getting me, he's getting me back to where I told him where I wanted to be and he's getting me there.   Because I know where I've been, I know where I want to be, he can get me in those positions.

Q.   How is putting feeling right now?
PAT PEREZ:   It's okay.   It's not fantastic.   That's the last piece I need to get together.   Steve Elkington gave me a really good putting tip.   He came out and stayed with me for three days and worked with me.
The problem is I need to find a putter ‑‑ I've been so busy, I haven't had time to go find a putter that I want.   So I keep looking around ‑‑ and this one I've used for about four months now, so I know what it's going to do, I know when it misses all that kind of stuff, but I need to find one that I can really get comfortable with.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT