PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 16, 2019
Pat Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Good round of golf, wasn't it?
PAT PEREZ: Yeah, swirled around a little bit more than I thought it was going to.  Didn't hit it great.  The course is not easy, but Brooks obviously made it look real easy.  I saw that on Tuesday when I played with him.  I actually congratulated him on his win.
No, the course is hard.  I just -- I putted great, but I had to chip, and I made some good putts, and like I said, I grinded it out 100 percent.
Q. These greens, best poa ever?  Late in the day like this, this is a joke, isn't it?
PAT PEREZ: Not even close.  Best poa I've ever seen.  It's incredible.  This is like Torrey when you got it in the early morning, the old greens.
Q. And this is at 6:00 at night now we're talking.
PAT PEREZ: Yeah, they've done a phenomenal job with this course.
Q. I've got to ask you about the body.  This is a tough walk.  I've walked out there and not played and I'm beat up right now.
PAT PEREZ: Yeah, I had a lot of adrenaline to keep me going.  When you're grinding it out all the time, you're sweating.  I'm not tired at all, but I'll get in that trailer again with those tech sleeves, and I'll be after it again tomorrow.
Q. How much prep work or postgame work is it now with the body and things you have to do to be able to come out in the morning and play good golf?
PAT PEREZ: Yeah, a lot more, my calf is kind of knotted up where it was torn, so I've got to keep try working on it to try to loosen it up so it doesn't tear again.  It doesn't hurt.  I don't have any pain.  I'm still trying to get the strength back in my legs.  This is a pretty good test of getting around.  But I'm still cautious.  I made some big swing changes, too, so it's all -- it all just seems weird right now.  I had two good last weeks, but this course is so hard, it's always had my number.  It's so long, it's so hard, I've never played well here, and it could be one of the best rounds I've ever put together in especially a major.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT