SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 11, 2013
Pat Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What a beautiful ball‑striking round for you.   We have you unofficially missing just two greens in the second round. 
PAT PEREZ:   Yeah, I guess so.   I didn't realize that.   Yeah, I hit it great.   I hit it great.   There wasn't a whole lot of wind this morning, but what there was kind of got your attention a little bit.   But it was just nice to get out there and feel comfortable.   Yesterday I was a little bit nervous, being the first day back from two months just kind of getting back into it.   But today I felt a lot more comfortable.

Q.   Are the greens still receptive?   They appear to still be holding. 
PAT PEREZ:   Yeah, they really are.   We were really surprised at a lot of balls that came out of the rough that were just really kind of holding where they hit.   It was nice because they weren't running off the greens. 

Q.   I always think it's hard to hit greens on this golf course.   They're small to begin with, and you have so many doglegs and so many run‑outs through the fairways and crosswinds, too.   I think you really have to be in control of your golf ball to hit 16 greens. 
PAT PEREZ:   Yeah, you do.   I'm trying to think of the holes that I missed.   I can't think of them.   But it's even harder to hit the fairways, especially when it really starts blowing.   I hit more fairways than I did, I think, yesterday.   But yeah, I felt like I had control of‑‑ just control of my game today. 

Q.   You know, it's strange to hear a veteran like you say a TOUR winner would be nervous on the opening tee. 
PAT PEREZ:   Yeah, you know, just taking a couple months off, I did so much work in the off‑season with my game, and I made a lot of changes.   I'm working on my mind a little bit.   You know, it's all great preparation, but once you get the tee in the ground on Thursday, it's just different.   I wanted to get a feel yesterday where I was, and I got a good feel of that, and I was just confident when I came out today. 

Q.   Just give a comment on your round, and try and make it a quote we can use, please. 
PAT PEREZ:   I don't know, I was a little shaky yesterday, but today I kind of got‑‑ I just got comfortable as I came in yesterday on the 9th hole, and today I thought, you know, I was just‑‑ I was confident in how I played yesterday.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
PAT PEREZ:   No, I had a good look at it today, too, from 10 feet.   I didn't make that.   I got comfortable as the day went on, and I just tried to get myself in the right frame of mind starting those first four holes because they're not that easy right out of the gate, and I birdied 2 and 4, which are really good birdies, I thought, and I birdied 5 and 6, and I had a great eagle look on 9 that I missed, but turned in 30, and I thought, here we go.   And I hit a great putt on 10, didn't go in.   I birdied 11, I'm thinking, all right, let's see what we can get to.
Yeah, I just didn't really get it all that close coming in, but they were all tap‑in birdies or tap‑in pars, and then I had a tap‑in birdie on the last. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT