THE BARCLAYS
August 23, 2012
Pat Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   5‑under 66, quick start.   Maybe talk a little bit about the day, how the golf course played.   
PAT PEREZ:   The course‑‑ I guess you would say it played as easy as it's ever going to play probably.   It was a little soft, fairways were a little soft.   The greens were fast, receptive.   They're going to be really hard like this afternoon and this week coming up.   So we've got probably the easiest 18 holes we're going to get all week.   And I just kind of took advantage of what was out there pretty much.  
   
 Q.   How important was the quick start for you, three birdies right out of the gate?  
PAT PEREZ:   Yeah, it helped me.   It was great.   Especially 10 and 12.   I had different clubs than I thought I was going to have.   Practice round on 12 I hit 4‑iron in, and I had 5‑iron in on 10, and I wasn't expecting it, but I had 7‑iron on 12 and I had a good look at everything there.   It was a nice start.   I just wasn't really expecting it.   Those two holes you're just trying to get through there even, 1‑under maybe and kind of get your day started.   
It kind of changed my mindset.   Standing on 13, I thought if I can maybe a couple more on this side and then get on the other side and take care of the par‑5s and play the hard holes smart, who knows.   That's kind of how it went.   I was kind of comfortable all day.  
   
 Q.   Are you surprised at the scores?  
PAT PEREZ:   I am a little surprised.   I didn't think they would be that low.   Obviously there's no wind, and like I say, they are a little softer out there.   But the course is hard.   You've still got to hit it in the fairway.   If you're not hitting the fairway, you're not hitting the green in two.   I don't think I missed a fairway today, which really helps.   You know, I'm a little surprised at the scores, but it's all the same to me.   Top 125, so I don't really get surprised anymore.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT