SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 13, 2012
Pat Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Nice round, just get some comments on your day. 
PAT PEREZ:   It was nice.   Like I told Fergie yesterday, I didn't really have any expectations coming over.   I thought I would play well, but I've changed so many things going on, there's a lot of things going on in life that I didn't really‑‑ I just am trying to enjoy the time being out there a little more.   You know, it's been fun.   I'm putting well, changed putters, and I've hit some good shots, I've hit some bad shots, but just trying to go through the motions really.

Q.   What putter did you change to?
PAT PEREZ:   I've got this belly putter.   Tommy Armour was all over me about it‑‑ well, he was actually on me at Hilton Head when I saw him.   And then we went to Cabo about a month and a half ago, and I put it in my hand down there, and the greens are just like this down there, and I putted unbelievable.   I said, all right, texted the guy, had one shipped to my house.   I was home in three days and I got it and I haven't taken it out of my hands since.   It's been unbelievable.

Q.   Best putt today?
PAT PEREZ:   I didn't really make any today.   I burned a lot of edges.   You know, two‑putt birdie there and got up‑and‑down from the front of the green on 10 for birdie, almost holed it on 11.   Longest one I made, I think, was‑‑ the longest birdie putt I think was only six feet maybe, ten feet on 2. 

Q.   Is your back okay?
PAT PEREZ:   No, I've got a bulged disk.   I had it all last year, and I got rid of it, but I didn't do a little walking, but now that I'm walking a lot, it's starting to show up again.   I'm not excited about it.   I went to Athletes Performance in Scottsdale.   I actually worked out every day with Graham.   It's funny that we're tied.   I was there every day, and I was there for two and a half hours a day doing stretching, and I did this acupuncture and stretching and ice and working out and all this stuff, and I felt great.   And now that I'm walking around a lot, it's starting to come back. 
It's just tight.   I can't get it to loosen up.   Between the flight and the new bed and all that stuff, I guess‑‑ hopefully it disappears.   But it probably won't because the disk is bulged, so it sucks.   I think that's forever. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT