THE 50TH BOB HOPE CLASSIC HOSTED BY ARNOLD PALMER
January 24, 2009
Pat Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK STEVENS: Another good round today. Thank you for coming on.   
 PAT PEREZ: Any time.  
 MARK STEVENS: If you'll start out again. You know this routine this week. If you'll start out and talk about your round and your thoughts going into the final round tomorrow where everybody's going to be on the same course.   
 PAT PEREZ: Well, I'm looking forward to it. I haven't been in this position in a while, and I think I'll be a little more ready this time than last time.   
 My game is more in shape. And I've been really comfortable on the course this week, and I hit a lot of good shot. I hit some mediocre shots, but my putter has been saving me. So I think tomorrow I'll be ready. Whatever happens, at least I'll be ready and comfortable going into it.   
  
  Q. You had the lead after two rounds, you shoot 67, 67, in rounds three and four, and yet you can't create any separation in this field. Is that pretty much what you expected or had you hoped that you might pull away at this point?  
 PAT PEREZ: No, I'm certainly not surprised. Look at the courses, it's easy. Not that it's easy, but it's just, you know, these guys aren't amateurs I'm playing against. So a guy like Stricker, these guys know how to play. So I'm not surprised in the least. I told you earlier, I think the score is going to be 35-under par, so that's where it's going.   
  
  Q. Obviously, this is four consecutive days of outstanding weather out here. If there had been a hint of a breeze or something like that, do you still think it would have been a possibility?  
 PAT PEREZ: Oh, yeah, I had some breeze today, so, yeah, I do think that it's a possibility.   
  
  Q. This is 30-under through four rounds. You kind of wishing at this moment that it was a 72-hole event?  
 PAT PEREZ: No. No.   
  
  Q. And how much more pressure do you feel being the leader every day? Is that difficult to deal with? I know you want to be in that position, but as opposed to creeping up on people...   
 PAT PEREZ: I'm not really worried either way. It's nice to be in the lead. I've been there all week, so I'm just going to go out and not think about the lead or anything else. I'm just going to go out and try and shoot a score.   
  
  Q. It would seem like with two rounds of 61, or 60 even, on the Palmer Course, that this might set up better for you with better feelings about the golf course. Do you feel confident coming over here as opposed to maybe going to another course?  
 PAT PEREZ: Oh, a hundred percent I do. But obviously, the pins are going to be a fraction more difficult tomorrow. They will probably be in tougher spots, so -- but I love that course. That back nine is one of my favorites of all time. So if I can get through the turn and go to the back nine, I feel pretty confident going to that back nine.   
  
  Q. You referred to not having been in this position in a while, could you tell about how you felt the last time and so on, what it was like.   
 PAT PEREZ: I don't even know. I don't even know what I was feeling then. It isn't even worth talking about.   
 MARK STEVENS: Okay, thanks a lot, Pat.   
 PAT PEREZ: Yeah. See you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT