THE 50TH BOB HOPE CLASSIC HOSTED BY ARNOLD PALMER
January 23, 2009
Pat Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOE CHEMYCZ: Appreciate your time, Pat, congratulations on another good round. Talk a little bit about your day today and we'll open it up for some questions from these guys, please.   
 PAT PEREZ: You know, it was a tough day, but there was no wind and the weather was perfect though. There's a lot of blind shots out here, so I was kind of worried about some of these holes. I never played this course before. But I got around it pretty good.   
  
  Q. You started the back nine first and were just 1-under for nine holes, is that the kind of stretch that at some point you expect you're going to have in the Hope where it's just not falling all the time?  
 PAT PEREZ: Yeah, I'm not really familiar with playing this course, so I don't really, it's a lot longer and it's not that easy to score that well. I didn't make any putts. I hit it pretty well.   
 It was hard, in 90 holes you're going to go through a stretch like that and it's just, you're just not going to be that hot. So I figured that 1-under, it felt like 2-over.   
  
  Q. But you did start making the putts on the front nine.   
 PAT PEREZ: Yeah, I did. I hit it great all day and it was a little better for me on the front. But I wasn't really comfortable on the back.   
  
  Q. And again, tying a PGA TOUR scoring record, but still only two shots ahead of Steve Stricker. You, I guess you kind of expect the pack to still be with you the way this week's gone, right?  
 PAT PEREZ: Well, yeah, how could you not. You saw it today. I'm coming to the hard course, you know, they're going to the easier ones. So I'm not surprised in the least.   
  
  Q. Did you know that right when you teed off that Pernice had shot 31 and had taken a lead by one shot at that point? Did you know about that?  
 PAT PEREZ: No, I didn't look. Didn't really care, to be honest with you. I mean, I got two rounds left, you know, by the time I got to nine I had moved back and I thought I had two and a half rounds left and now have I two round left. So it's going to come down to the back nine on the Palmer on Sunday.   
  
  Q. The way you played the first two days is it difficult to remain patient on your first nine today when the putts weren't falling?  
 PAT PEREZ: No. No. Because this course, it's just not like the Nicklaus Private at all. I hit it great all day and the putts just didn't fall. I had 5-iron into some of the par-4s and I had some tough shots. You know, I knew it was going to be tough over there, I thought I got out with a pretty good score. And I still got the lead.   
 So I got the Bermuda Dunes course tomorrow and I have played well there in the past and I look forward to the next two day. Its actually two courses I know I have already shot 61 at.   
  
  Q. At this point we have talked about 30, we have talked about 35, we talked about 40. It's an absurd number, but it seems to be in play at this point. Do you only think about that Sunday morning?  
 PAT PEREZ: No, I won't think about that at any point. I'm just going to try to go as low as I can and make a lot of putts. That's all I'm going to do.   
 I'm not going to worry about a number. If I play great and I come up short, I come up short. But I'm not going to worry about a number or anything the other guys are doing, I can only do what I can control.   
 So I'm just taking it one hole at a time and we'll go from there. So I'm excited to play the last two rounds and I hope to play well.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT