U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 9, 2008
Pat Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Full Audio Interview 
   
RAND JERRIS: It's a pleasure to welcome Pat Perez to the  
interview area this afternoon. Pat is playing in his 4th U.S.  
Open at Torrey Pines. Pat, you're a local guy, could you tell  
everyone a little bit about your relationship with Torrey Pines  
through the years. 
  PAT PEREZ: There's plenty of them. I used to work at this golf course, I started when I was 13 and worked all the way through high school. So I've been around here -- I was basically here every day during high school and summers and all that good stuff. So I've been around here a long time. 
   
RAND JERRIS: Talk to us a little bit about qualifying, what you  
went through in qualifying and what it meant to you to know you had  
qualified to play here in the U.S. Open at Torrey Pines.  
   
PAT PEREZ: I played two weeks in a row where I was in contention  
on Sunday. That took a lot out of me. I finished poorly  
Sunday at the Memorial, I finished 26th, which I was a little upset  
and I knew I had to get my mind right to play the next day.  
   
Monday morning I was 3-over after 7, early. I knew about 4- or 5- 
under was going to make it. So I made a late charge with pretty  
much no energy. Once I got in, I made a 25-footer on the last  
hole and they said 5 was going to be good enough. I was pretty  
excited. I got to the board and everyone -- everyone came in and  
5-under was good enough and I couldn't have been any happier. 
   
   
Q. Growing up here, being around this place, even since the  
redesign, is there anything in an Open like home course advantage or  
not? 
   
PAT PEREZ: I don't know. The greens are going to be so  
much harder than anyone is ever used to here that -- I think the only  
thing that would be -- I don't know if it would be an advantage, but  
the wind. I know how strong the wind can play. If it's  
calm, the dampness will affect a little bit.  
   
If it's blowing really hard then I think I know how -- I have an idea  
of how to play the course. I've never played it with greens this  
hard. It's going to be difficult. I don't know if there's  
any advantage for anybody, but just playing at other Opens I know how  
the conditions will be. So that will help me a little bit. 
   
   
Q. Compared to what you're used to playing here in the Buick and  
even before, how much more difficult do you feel the course is  
compared to what it usually plays? 
   
PAT PEREZ: You know, as far as the bunkers and the fairways and  
the rough, you know, other than the third or fourth cut of rough it's  
not that much different. The greens are going to be a lot  
harder. They've gotten firmer each day. This is the third  
day I've played it and they've gotten firmer each day. They're  
green, which is really nice. They're really green. I think  
come Thursday and even Saturday and Sunday they're going to be really  
difficult. But I think the setup is pretty much similar to  
Buick. 
   
   
Q. Talk about the experience of playing in other Opens, and that  
experience as it lends to your preparation to this weekend's event? 
   
PAT PEREZ: You know, there's -- this one's kind of a little more  
different because you can't hit 2-iron. A lot of the other Opens  
you could run a 2-iron or a rescue or something like that. Here  
I think you have to hit driver. That could change. If they  
get the fairways real hard, that may change.  
   
But from what I've seen so far, they have that kikuyu grass in there,  
and the ball doesn't really roll that much. I think you've got  
to hit driver a lot. I don't know where I'm going. 
   
   
Q. How about the way you approach it? 
   
PAT PEREZ: Yeah, your approach is pretty much the same as any  
other Open. It's going to be hard. You've got to hit good  
shots. You're going to have to be happy with 30, 40 feet, if  
you're in a certain spot, trying to make bogey as opposed to trying to  
make birdie and then making double or triple, is basically what you do  
in an Open.  
   
You play for pars. You hopefully make some birdies, but you have  
to eliminate the big scores. When you play a practice round you  
get around and say, if I hit it here, I've got to hit it over here and  
try to make four, if not, make five and kind of move on. 
  I  
just approach it as where can I make the least amount of mistakes out  
here. 
   
   
Q. There's going to be people from all over the country, all  
over the world watching this thing, and they're going to hear this  
kikuyu word. And it's kind of a regional thing. What is it  
about that stuff, the characteristics of it, I guess, that make it so  
hard? Does it not lay down in a particular direction, what is it? 
 
   
PAT PEREZ: I don't know, we call it sponge grass. But it's  
really thick. If they shave it down tight you can spin the hell  
out of the ball. It's awesome. You always get a good lion  
it, you could drive trucks on it. It's great grass. But it  
will help for hard greens.  
  I  
don't know what it is. It's not really wire, it's real  
spongy. When it gets long, if the ball gets down in it it's hard  
to get out of it, it's really hard to get out of it. Is that  
even the right term? Kikuyu grass? That's what we call  
it. I like it, though. It's in the fairways, I think it's  
going to be awesome, because you're going to be able to get some spin  
on the ball. 
   
   
Q. Knowing your background here and your ties to this place how  
emotional is it going to be or will it be at all when you tee it up on  
Thursday? How do you think you'll feel, how do you think you'll  
react, and how do you get over that? 
   
PAT PEREZ: You know, I don't know. I've been pretty calm  
so far. When I come here, I haven't seen it yet as really a U.S.  
Open. I see it as a course I've played a thousand times.  
When I've gone to other majors you get there and go, "Oh, my God,  
it's awesome here, it's a Major and this and this."  
   
Here I've seen these holes so many times that I'm not seeing it as the  
U.S. Open. I'm just kind of seeing it as Torrey Pines, a place I  
love to play. I'm just going to go out there. I may change  
Thursday and if it gets late Sunday, it will be a little  
different. But I haven't really felt any pressure yet from it.  
   
   
Q. How long has your dad been a starter here and all these muni  
and public courses always have some interesting characters hanging  
around playing here for years and years, who are some of your  
favorites? 
   
PAT PEREZ: They're probably all gone now. I haven't seen  
so many for so long. My dad has been a starter at the Buick for,  
I think this is his 15th year. He's done it forever. He'll  
do it until he can't walk anymore, I'm assuming.  
   
The one starter here, Jake Perkhiser, he's been here well before I  
worked here. I was 13, so we're talking 20 years ago. And  
he's unbelievable. We used to sit down and have some laughs with  
him.  
   
The other starter, Miguel, he's been around forever. And a lot  
of guys just have come and gone. When I worked here we had a  
great crew. It was fun to work here. It was me, just in  
high school, and everyone was an older guy. It was just a fun  
bunch, but I don't know where any of them are now. 
   
   
Q. Were you ever one of the guys that slept in the car so you  
could get an early tee off time here? 
   
PAT PEREZ: Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. We had some help in  
the starter's booth, but we still had to get a number. We'd get  
here about 1, 2:00 in the morning and you've got to get a number from  
the guy. So if you were early you had to wait until someone else  
showed up and then you got your number and then you could go to sleep  
and set your alarm for 5:30. And then everyone would go in the  
coffee shop, get a drink or get something to drink. And then  
everyone would form a line across the top balcony up there. And  
it was one after another went off, and tee off at 6:30 and that was  
the kind of day. And then I'd go to work after that.  
  I  
loved it. As a kid, you're getting out of the house, you got  
more freedom. I loved it. I wouldn't do it now, but it was  
fun at the time. 
   
   
Q. You made three bucks an hour or so? 
   
PAT PEREZ: I couldn't even tell you what I made. I  
couldn't even tell you what I made back then. It was just the  
fact that I got free golf. 
   
   
Q. You weren't doing it for the money, obviously? 
   
PAT PEREZ: No, it was nice to have an extra hundred bucks or two  
hundred bucks or whatever for high school. But it was the fact  
that I had free cart and free golf, all the balls I could hit.  
And I hit probably all of them. 
   
   
Q. And then you picked them up.  
   
PAT PEREZ: Yeah, and I picked them up. That was the pay  
for me. Because we couldn't join a country club, because they  
were too expensive here. So getting that was just a bonus.  
And it happened to be Torrey Pines on top of it, it was the best part  
about it. 
   
   
Q. However do you live from here? 
   
PAT PEREZ: I live in Scottsdale now. Did I? We lived  
in Cardiff at the time, we lived in Del Mar, La Jolla,  
Encinatas. We've lived up-and-down that coast. 
   
   
Q. You've been in contention a number of times on the weekend,  
how close do you think you are to a big breakthrough? 
   
PAT PEREZ: Man, I tell you, I don't know. I hope  
soon. It's getting old, to be honest with you. I always  
feel like I'm playing well enough to do it, but for some reason I come  
down -- I haven't made the right shots at the right time to get me in  
the lead or right next to the lead. I've always -- I'm always  
three or four back, finishing 6th or 4th, whatever. I'm not  
making enough things happen down the stretch to get in the lead.  
  I  
don't know how it -- I don't know how you do it, but at least I'm  
getting closer each week so I'm hoping soon it will happen.  
   
   
Q. Did you work with Joe DeBock those days? 
   
PAT PEREZ: Yeah, he's still the pro, he's been here forever. 
   
   
Q. He wrote a yardage book with some tips, did you look at it? 
   
PAT PEREZ: No, I haven't. 
   
   
Q. Would you recommend it? 
   
PAT PEREZ: Yeah, Joe has been around here a lot more than I  
have. I guarantee he knows everything around here just like I  
do. 
   
   
Q. You say you played this course a thousand times. How  
different is 13 all the way back and what's the character of the  
fairway and is it reachable? 
   
PAT PEREZ: When I played it today I couldn't believe there was a  
tee box back there. I like to tee from the left one.  
You've got the big tee and the one just left by the cliff there.  
That's a good one, because at least you can still get there.  
There's no getting there from back there, there's not even a  
chance. It's a long way.  
   
Plus, you know, that back tee takes out -- I don't say all the  
trouble, because the rough is -- the third cut of rough is  
brutal. But that fairway is so wide. Because you can't get  
to the bunkers. The bunks are 330 or something like that.  
So they're out of play.  
  I  
don't really know what the thinking was there for 614. It was  
basically going to play as a par-3. If you're in the fairway you  
have to layup anyway, or if you're in the rough you have to  
layup. So everyone is going to be hitting the same shot, which  
is about 115 yards. It's going to play as a 115 yard par-3 back  
there. That's about it.  
  I  
tell you, it's a long hole. It looks like it's 10,000 yards away  
from that tee box. 
   
   
Q. Do you believe Dustin reached it in two yesterday? 
   
PAT PEREZ: I played with him yesterday, he may have. If he  
turned one over, he may have. I played with him yesterday, I  
couldn't believe how far he hit it. You're talking about maybe  
one or two guys of the 156 that would even think about going for it in  
two. 
   
   
Q. You played the best courses in the world, obviously, in the  
last few years. What's special about this place about the way  
the course plays, the view, and did you ever think it was an  
underrated course when people talked about the great courses? 
   
PAT PEREZ: I don't know if it's necessarily underrated.  
It's definitely tough enough now. I think the way it was before  
Jones got a hold of it, I think it wasn't that tough. Now it's  
very difficult.  
   
If they kept it in this kind of condition with the greens firm like  
this and the rough up you're talking -- it's a great course out  
there. It's awesome. I've never seen it in this kind of  
shape. It's awesome to see it. It's fun to play because  
it's so much different.  
   
But it's still got that same feel. It's got the same wind.  
Every hole is the same shape. I think it's great. I think  
it's up there with anything. 
   
   
Q. What do you suppose it's going to be like out there when  
world No. 1 and world No. 2 and world No. 3 all tee off bringing the  
fans that those guys are going to be bringing, probably 30 out of the  
40 thousand? 
   
PAT PEREZ: It will be nice. There won't be any crowds left  
out there. Is Adam going to play for sure?  
   
   
Q. I don't know.  
   
PAT PEREZ: I don't know. Yeah, it's going to be a  
circus. It will be an absolute zoo with those three playing  
together. Especially with Phil. Phil is hometown.  
And Tiger is always hometown wherever he goes. The crowds are  
going to be incredible. I think it's going to be great, though. 
   
   
Q. Who do you like, those two guys are way up here versus the  
rest of the people in the Vegas odds? 
   
PAT PEREZ: I played with Phil on Sunday. And Tiger hasn't  
played in six weeks, so I don't know, I couldn't tell you.  
They're both great players, they can both do amazing things. I  
think whoever putts the best will do it. 
   
   
Q. Being kind of a lifer here, did you have kind of mixed  
feelings when they made the alterations on the South knowing a lot of  
the old guys didn't want to play the course anymore because it was too  
tough? 
   
PAT PEREZ: I know a lot of guys were upset with the  
changes. Yeah, they changed the course the first year I got my  
Tour card. So I never got to play it the old way. I knew  
everything about everything about that other course. When I got  
tired, I could -- if I got tired, I could tell you anything about  
anything the old course.  
   
And then I go to Q-School and get my card and the course is  
different. I come here and it's like I've never played it  
before. The way they did 3 and 4 alone was incredible. I  
don't think a lot of the older guys were too happy about that.  
It's just too long. Plus now it takes so long to play. It  
probably takes six hours to play here, and that's just not fun.  
   
   
Q. Did you play Little League baseball, are you ready for the  
first pitch? 
  PAT PEREZ: I'm going to throw them a heater. I can't wait. I'm more nervous about that than the tournament. I'm throwing out the first pitch tomorrow night at the Padre game. I'll be ready. 
   
   
Q. They're down a starter.  
  PAT PEREZ: I know. I know. I'm be ready. 
   
   
Q. Are you going rubber or in front of it? 
   
PAT PEREZ: I'm going rubber. I'm not going in front.  
I'm going rubber. 
   
   
Q. How did that come up? 
   
PAT PEREZ: The Taylor Made guys. They were looking for a  
San Diego guy. I said I'll go down -- They're playing the  
Dodgers. It's already sold out, I think, too. I think a  
lot of people from the U.S. Open are going to go down there, give them  
something to do. I can't wait, it's going to be awesome. 
   
   
Q. Six or seven years into your career, how surprised are you  
that you haven't won? What did you envision once you first got  
out here? 
   
PAT PEREZ: When I first got out here I thought, let's just try  
to make some money, fit in, let's get going, let's get noticed.  
   
Now it's -- those days are over. Now it's got to happen. I  
think I'm behind schedule as far as winning. 
   
   
Q. Where do you still think you need to make your biggest  
strides to take that final step? 
   
PAT PEREZ: I don't know. I think I need to get more  
comfortable -- not more comfortable, I think I need to -- I just need  
to make things happen. Be patient and just make things happen  
when they need to happen. 
   
   
Q. Is there any disappointment that some people still look at  
you maybe not so much for your golf, maybe for your attitude or the  
way you go at things? 
   
PAT PEREZ: Yeah, I'm not really worried about that. People  
who have known me a long time, especially like -- a lot of reporters  
have even said, they said, we see a huge change in you. You've  
come a long way.  
   
You have to remember -- I tell them the same story, guys, I was 25  
years old, growing up out here where it was worse than the Harlem  
pickup game out here, as far as language. You play with these  
guys out here -- and I grew up with that from 13 all the way on.  
These guys -- it was normal for me.  
   
But a 25 year old kid who gets in the lead and then I don't like to  
lose any way, and it just happened. That was seven years  
ago. I'm 32 now, people do change. And there's still  
reporters, that's the first question they ask me. Do you still  
think about Pebble? I mean, what -- do you think about your  
divorce all day, every day? That's kind of what you've got to  
ask them. You fire back. I said, no, I don't think about  
it. That was seven years ago. People change. I've  
made big strides.  
   
That's why I've been in contention a lot, because I let things go, and  
I just play. I know there's more out there. I can't waste  
all that energy on negative stuff. 
   
   
Q. What were some of the jobs that you had here? 
   
PAT PEREZ: I did it all. I cleaned the carts, put away the  
carts, picked up balls, picked up balls on the outside of the range,  
picked up baskets, set up the balls in the ball shed. Sometimes  
I took money. I did it all. Any outside job I had. I  
was the go-fer. 
   
   
Q. How good were you when you were 13? 
   
PAT PEREZ: Pretty good. I was Player of the Year a lot of  
years as a junior in San Diego. 13, 14, 15, 17, 11. I mean  
it was all the way growing up. 
   
   
Q. Who all was in the field at the Junior Worlds other than  
Tiger Woods?  
   
PAT PEREZ: Roberto Morales, Chad Wright, I can't remember, to be  
honest with you. 
   
   
Q. (Reporter not using the microphone.) 
   
PAT PEREZ: Riley was out, I think, he was a year older, two  
years older, he was already out. I think Hoffman, Hoffman was  
there. We had a lot of San Diego guys there. I can't  
remember exactly. Darren, Angel, and I ended up going to  
college. I can't remember them all, to be honest with you.  
   
   
Q. Were you one of those kids that was able to swindle guys out  
here for a little money? Were you the kid that everybody wanted  
to play and try to beat, did you earn extra cash that way? 
   
PAT PEREZ: Kind of. They always wanted me on their  
team. A young kid, thinks they can't play. We did a lot of  
money games out here. It got heated at times and it was  
fun. I had five dollars in my pocket, but I'd always leave with  
money. It was a great learning experience for me.  
  I  
think that helped me -- it helped me grow, just being around these  
guys and hanging out, just being with older -- as a kid, hanging out  
with kids, I don't think you really pick up on real life. But  
hanging out here you pick up on a lot of things. 
   
   
Q. Would you have been on suicide watch, if you had to watch  
this from Scottsdale? 
   
PAT PEREZ: I wouldn't have watched it. I'd have been up at  
the lake on the boat all week, I wouldn't have even watched it.  
It wouldn't have interested me in the least. 
   
RAND JERRIS: Pat, thank you very much for your time today and we  
wish you a lot of luck this week. 
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT