SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 6, 2008
Pat Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Pat, didn't leave much meat on the bone out there today, although you say it could have been lower?  
 PAT PEREZ: Yeah. I hit it in the water on 6 and made bogey there. I had a stretch of 11, 12, and missed one from 6 feet. Missed a 10-footer on 11. Rolled it right up for an eagle on 13. 15 feet and, you know, there were a couple -- you know, it was a good day. I made a couple long one, but it's fine.  
  
  Q. I'm going to say 8-under qualifies as a very good day. Was there any indication this round was coming in?  
 PAT PEREZ: No.  
  
  Q. That's golf. You never know when it's going to bite you or pat you on the back.  
 PAT PEREZ: Yeah. I've been putting well the last -- I've been hit being the ball great the last two weeks, and I just -- I haven't been able to get the ball in the hole. I was leading in greens at last week, finished 12.  
 This week I hit a lot of greens and not getting the ball there. I said today I'm going to try to roll it, and, you know, once I saw -- once you see a couple go in, you start to actually believe you can actually make one finally. So that's what kind happened with me. Kind of snowballed today. I knew I was hitting it well. There are some tough pins out there, but you can make a 25, 30-footer out here like nothing.  
  
  Q. I thought all week the course lends itself to a quick start. That's exactly how you started today with four birdies.  
 PAT PEREZ: It was nice to get off to that kind start. Then you've got 5 is a good hole and 6 kind of tough. 7 is tough, but, you know, it's a good course. It will reward your good shots. And, if you can putt, you can shoot lights out there.  
  
  Q. Probably not enough to get you into Augusta next week, but certainly gives you some good feelings with an off week.  
 PAT PEREZ: Yeah. I'm going take two weeks off. I needed to finish 3rd last week to get into Augusta. I'll be disappointed, but that's my favorite one to watch. We'll have fun.  
  
  Q. You're having a good year, can still have a great year. Have a good week.  
 PAT PEREZ: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT