TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 23, 2007
Pat Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  69, 68, 66, I kind of like that. 
 PAT PEREZ: I do too.  Tomorrow I think I'm going to need it. 

 Q.  Tell me about your round.  You're just hitting greens and fairways and making putts.  You make it look easy. 
 PAT PEREZ: I've had a couple of bad holes.  On 16 I hit it out-of-bounds and hit it in the water already.  But other than that, I have played well.  I'm driving it well.  And I play in the wind well.  A lot of shots are left to right, which isn't my favorite.  I've been on the right side of the hole most the time.  When I'm putting well, it seems to get better.  I've played well enough. 

 Q.  We're not going back to talk about your putts.  (Inaudible) you are doing this on your own, aren't you? 
 PAT PEREZ:  He gave me a tip on Tuesday.  I played in the Pro-Am.  He's all over me again. 

 Q.  It didn't help.  This time it was on you. 
 PAT PEREZ:  I got it from him and Chi Chi, it was an exciting day, to say the least. 

 Q.  You're playing awfully well.  Are you rooting for wind on Sunday? 
 PAT PEREZ:  Yes, I'd like it to be the same.  I'd like the course to play the same.  I just hope the wind stops for about 15 minutes on 16.  Other than that, everything the same. 

 Q.  How good was this round in this wind on this course? 
 PAT PEREZ: I thought it was pretty good.  I definitely played well.  I started hitting it better and the putter was coming around.  It was a good day. 

 Q.  You've had close to twenty top 10s out here.  I know it's hard to figure it out the wind.  Have you figured out what the magic is? 
 PAT PEREZ:  Right now I'm not even -- I don't want to say I'm not trying, but I'm not trying to win.  Usually when I get in a situation where I'm close, I put too much pressure on me, now we're here, okay, now we have to get going, now we have have to really try harder.  I just have to stay more relaxed. 
 I played with Jerry.  We had a great time.  We laughed all day.  We were having fun.  That's how I need to be in order to play well.  I need to be relaxed, have more fun.  I'll just take whatever comes.  I'll just try to hit good shots and make sure I do everything the right way.  If it happens, it happens; if not -- I get too caught up in what's going on.  I just want to go out and play. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT