BUICK CLASSIC
June 8, 2002
Pat Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







TODD BUDNICK:  We have Pat Perez, a 4-under 67, 9-under for the tournament.  I know it's been a long day today, Pat, so let's just get right to it.
Tell us about the day.  You've got to be happy with the 6-under 30 on the front nine in the third round.
PAT PEREZ:   Yeah, but I think I cancelled out pretty quick in the back nine. 
I shot 4-under on the first day, 4-under today and they were completely opposite days.  That back nine, I don't know why I can't come through on that.  I think I'm 4-over on it now.  Yeah, just a long day.  I started at 7:30.  Glad to be done.  I'm glad to go late tomorrow. 

Q.  You made a real good par save on 11 after the drive left, and then 12, was there some baby screaming or something when you were in the trap?
PAT PEREZ:   No.  I had to hit a high cut with this 5-wood.  It's not a real good shot and I wasn't going to lay up at that point.  I tried to help it even more and I topped it and laid up.  That hole got me.  I 4-putted yesterday on that hole and made double today.  So that's kind of my week right there, that hole, and 11. 

Q.  You sound like you're not  -- because you came in not the way you wanted to, the 4-under round, being 9-under do you feel like you should have gotten more out of it?
PAT PEREZ:   I should be about 17 or 18 (under) at this point.  I've only putted good on nine holes and that was today, but they were not really long putts, anyway.  I was hitting real close. 
I grew up on greens like this, and that's why I played well at Pebble, as well.  I know these greens, but I just haven't putted that well and I can't figure out the back nine. 
I'm not excited about it, by any means, being 9-under. 

Q.  Being in good position for tomorrow, how do you get your mindset?
PAT PEREZ:   Trying to go as low as I can.  If I can shoot 20 on the front, then I should be all right.  (Laughter.)

Q.  Have you ever shot 20 before?
PAT PEREZ:   No.  But I really like the front nine, I don't know why.  It just seems real clear to me how to play that.  But the back nine, I'm just blind out there.
TODD BUDNICK:  Do you go home tonight and come up with a game plan for tomorrow on the back nine.
PAT PEREZ:   No.  I'm going to watch the fight and that's about it.  I'm not even going to think about it because I'm so tired, anyway, I got here Sunday night, did the Pro-Am, 36 was the qualifier and then just the way this week has gone, still trying to rest for next week because next week is really going to be a grind. 
I'm not worried about it.  I'm finally playing well, and I haven't played well in 7 weeks.  Nice to be up on top, but frustrating to finish the way I did in the last hour or so. 

Q.  You've got to be excited, at least this is the first time since Pebble that you've been in contention. 
PAT PEREZ:   Yeah, Bay Hill I was there.  I had the lead at Bay Hill, as well. 
Yeah, it's nice.  But until you win, it doesn't really mean anything, as far as being in contention and all that stuff.  You've got to win out here to really prove to yourself that you belong.

Q.  Does it help at all having been there the last day? I know at Pebble you said there's nothing good that comes out of this. 
PAT PEREZ:   I got a little bit today, but I learned mentally how to deal with it today but I still had the same results.  I don't know, it's I've just got to play better.

Q.  Where did you start the day, what hole?
PAT PEREZ:   This morning I started on 18.  Played 10.  Went back and slept for about an hour and a half.  Worked out for about 20 minute, came back and felt refreshed on that front nine. 

Q.  Is it more physically or mentally fatiguing when you have a day like that?
PAT PEREZ:   Physically.  I'm not mentally tired.  I'm physically, because I worked out pretty hard yesterday and I did a little bit this morning and then the middle of the round, probably have to do something tonight.  Then tomorrow. 
So it's not only mentally tiring, but I'm just more tired being on the course. 

Q.  As much of a grind this week has been, there still have been some positives, just to go through the qualifier?
PAT PEREZ:   To tell you the truth, I'm not worried about tomorrow.  I'm more worrying about next week because that's where you really can prove yourself is in the Open. 
This week has been just like a  -- the qualifier has been like a jump-start to the second half for me.  Q-School got me through the first half and qualifying for the Open, hopefully gets me going for the next six or seven weeks. 
Tomorrow I'm just going to go out there, give it all I've got, but I'm really excited about playing next week.  It's just been kind of a high all week. 
TODD BUDNICK:  We'll just go through your card real quick and let you go.  I know it's been a long day.
The six birdies on the front, starting with 2 and 3.
PAT PEREZ:   On 2, I hit 3-wood, wedge to about six feet. 
I hit 3-wood, wedge on 3 to about two feet. 
5, I hit driver, 3-wood to just short and then I chipped up to about a foot and a half. 
6, I hit it to about 20 feet. 
7, I hit to about five feet. 
9, I hit it to about three feet after a chip. 
13, I hit it to about six feet. 
15, I hit it long and left, where you just have no chance for that back pin.  I don't know why, but I thought the wind was more into me.  It came over the top a little bit, but just went long and left.  I just had to chip onto about 40 feet and 2-putt. 
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Pat. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT