AL DIVISION SERIES: RANGERS v YANKEES
October 7, 1999
Ricky Ledee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What was your mindset going up in that seventh inning before you drove in the run, and did you think that ball was going to be caught?
 
RICKY LEDEE:  I was going to play. I really thought it was going to be caught, but I kind of knew that he was far enough to let the run. 
 

Q.  What did you learn about Helling from your first two at-bats against him?
 
RICKY LEDEE:  He threw strikes -- strikes in the outside corner. He was good. Seems that he couldn't use his curve ball. I mean he couldn't throw strikes with his curve ball.  He was kind of pitching and dominating us with only his fast ball. It was kind of easier for me in the situation because I know that he's a fast-ball pitcher. So it makes things easier for me. 
 

Q.  How comfortable are you in post-season play now after what you did in the World Series last year?
 
RICKY LEDEE:  I'm really confident. I have a lot of confidence in myself. Last year, when Mr. Torre gave me an opportunity to play in the World Series, it wasn't expected. Come this year, I mean I got to find ways not to get nervous and not use it against me, but I mean to work for me. 
 

Q.  Your thoughts as the team heads to Texas on Tuesday with a 2-0 lead.
 
RICKY LEDEE:  We're really confident. We have nothing to lose now. We go there and play our game. The team is playing real good. We proved today that we are not always going to blow them away. We can play a one-run game and win and Helling threw a great game today. We proved that we can win games like that, too. 
 

Q.  How do you think you're coming along defensively with the help of Jose Cardenal, and how tough is it picking balls?  It was one double there that looked like you had a late jump on it?
 
RICKY LEDEE:  You know, we're working every day on it. It's kind of tough, left field to play, a lot of ground to cover, real big. Left field is tough; day games, night games, you got the lights. Especially the first game, Rusty got -- up with the ball. Today I kind of have a late jump on the Stevens' ball. I was trying to see it. By the time that I went to get it, it was just coming. 
 

Q.  Can you talk about the season in general, what you did to turn it around from the slow start?
 
RICKY LEDEE:  Work hard. You know, I didn't -- when they sent me down, I didn't -- I just went there and worked every day with myself, came back, Joe gave me an opportunity to play, and, you know, I kind of have the  feeling that everything was going to be different this next time around. 
 

Q.  Did you think that the ball was hanging up, were you hoping for it to get down quick before somebody could get under it?
 
RICKY LEDEE:  It was. It was up there. I, you know, I wasn't even looking for the ball to drop. I knew that the wind was going to come in, the guy caught it. As soon as I started running, I saw the guys that were playing -- Juan was playing towards the line, and the center fielder was playing more to left field. After that I knew it was going to drop. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT