ANA INSPIRATION
April 4, 2021
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Minjee, 5-under 67 to end the 50th ANA Inspiration.  Take us through the day and how it got to 67.
 MINJEE LEE:   Yeah, yeah, I mean, I just started with like six pars I think and then I birdied two holes in a row.  I think it was 7 or 8 or something like that.
 And, yeah, just sort of gave me a little bit of momentum going into the back nine.  Yeah, I made up three birdies on the back, so finished 5-under today.
 Q. You had the eagle in round one on No. 18.
 MINJEE LEE:   Yeah.
 Q. Take us through that and how the 18th played this week with no grandstand and if you liked the setup.
 MINJEE LEE:   Yeah, I mean, the first day I eagled the 18th hole, which was pretty cool.  I actually saw it go in, my third shot.  I think I had like 80 meters in.  It was just the perfect shot and I was like, Oh, so good.  And I saw it drop in, so it was pretty special.
 I actually really enjoy playing the island green.  I think because the tee was up every day on 18 we could sort of play like risk and reward, if you wanted to do go for it if you had a good number.
 Today I went for it but the other days I didn't.  Yeah, it was just good conditions today.  Not much wind right now.  Yeah, hybrid onto the green.
 Q. How can a round like this at a major championship kind of maybe provide some momentum, something to look back on throughout the year, like this is what I can put together?
 MINJEE LEE:   I always enjoy playing this golf course, so I'm actually a little disappointed that I didn't play as well yesterday.  Like I feel like I would play well here because of good ball striking, but yeah, I'm a little disappointed with this week, but I'm happy to finish on a good note.
 Q. Week off before more the west coast swing.
 MINJEE LEE:   Yep.
 Q. What are the plans for week off and looking ahead to Hawaii?
 MINJEE LEE:   Yeah, I'm going to go back to Dallas because I haven't been for a couple months.  I'll check out my house there and just do a little bit of housework and a little bit of cleaning.
 But, yeah, other than that, do a little bit more practice and get ready for the next four events.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT