OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 18, 2016
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MINJEE LEE: Well, I started really good today. I think I was 4‑under through nine, and then I birdied 10. The wind kind of got up and we were on the clock I think most of the back nine. I think my rhythm was a little out. I made really good up‑and‑downs. So I'm happy with that, and I'm happy with my result today.  
   
 Q. You scrambled really well on that back nine.   
MINJEE LEE: I think the birdies and my par saves were as important as each other. Yeah, some of those up‑and‑downs‑‑ as I said, I'm happy with how it went today and hopefully I can improve on it tomorrow.   
   
 Q. Will you feel more pressure tomorrow given how you went today?   
MINJEE LEE: No, I was really one shot at a time today. I just try to make do with what I had and I guess when the wind came up a little bit, I think I struggled a little bit. So I'll just adjust to that accordingly, and yeah, just have fun tomorrow.   
   
 Q. Walking the back ninewhen the men were playing, did you pick up anything how the course changes?   
MINJEE LEE: Well, I only saw like the last maybe four holes of the guys on both days. Yeah, I mean, they play a totally different game to us, so we can't really take what they do into consideration. So I guess maybe the run on the fairways, or which way the wind is blowing, but other than that, not really‑‑ we know which side is better to lay up to and stuff, and that's really what I got out of it.   
   
 Q. How do you find that you go when you're at the top of the leaderboard into the last couple rounds?   
MINJEE LEE: Hopefully good. I mean, I've won before, so it shouldn't be any different. You should just play your own game and you shouldn't really have to think about anybody else's. Just play with what you have and what's in your control.   
   
 Q. Did you feel in that first nine, as well, the other two players you were playing with were also running pretty hot, as well? Did that help you as well?   
MINJEE LEE: I think it really helps. It really motivates you to make birdies, and also, it's as you said, it's momentum and just gives you that extra push you need, I think when everyone is hot in your group.  
   
 Q. A lot of people watching you back in Australia and getting really excited; does that make you feel good there's so many people back in Australia getting behind you?  
MINJEE LEE: Definitely. That's what you hope for. I mean, yeah, the more support, the better. So yeah, I'm sure all my family back in Australia is watching and all my friends, so that's good.   
   
 Q. How are you treating this? Are you trying to look at it like just another tournament and play out your rounds, as opposed to what is at the end of it?  
MINJEE LEE: I think when you're on the golf course, you don't really think about it. But when you're obviously not on the golf course, you're like, oh, you just sort of realize how big of an event it is and not just for yourself, because you're representing your country and for women's golf and all that. So I think it's pretty cool just to be here. I think it's amazing. More amazing as it goes.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT