SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CTBC
April 22, 2016
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How did you do this in the weather?
MINJEE LEE: Well, I just took advantage of the opportunities I had.  I had a couple of wedges into some of the par-4s, so on the back nine, which was my front nine, I had like three birdie chances that were, I don't know, like five, six feet because I hit wedges in, and I just stayed patient.  If I made a mistake, I tried to make up-and-downs, and I did today.  Yeah, just chipped and putted well today.
Q. Did you feel the 7:55 start time for you, did you feel you caught a little bit of a break compared to the others who have to play this afternoon?
MINJEE LEE: No.
Q. No difference?
MINJEE LEE: No, it was still windy.  It was like on and off rain, and I was like putting my rain jacket on and off and on and off.  I think it's going to be pretty similar all day.  Like when we were finishing, it was quite nice, so hopefully it's good for the afternoon, as well.
Q. Your finish yesterday, it was three bogeys on the final four, right?  What did you do last night mentally to rebound with a round like this?
MINJEE LEE: Not much.  I just ate and then I slept because I had to get up early to come here this morning.
Q. What time did you have to get here?
MINJEE LEE: 6:40.  That's pretty early.  I didn't really think about much.
Q. You had a support group out here afterwards.  You're staying with them?  They're friends?
MINJEE LEE: One of them, I'm staying with one of them.  Yeah, they're friends.  I met them last time when I came for the U.S. Girls' through one of my caddies.  Yeah, it's nice.  He's staying --
Q. The U.S. Girls' you won, that's when you met them?
MINJEE LEE: No, my caddie introduced me to them a couple years ago.  So I'm staying with them, and yeah, and they came out and watched today, and his brother.
Q. Do you consider yourself normally a good player in bad weather?
MINJEE LEE: Well, it depends on how you're feeling and how you're hitting it on that day.  I don't think you can say, oh, I'm so good in bad weather kind of thing.  You just take it as it comes and try your best, I guess.
Q. Is there something that has recently kicked in for you, coming off the win?  Something that you've found?
MINJEE LEE: Not really.  I mean, yesterday I finished badly, but other than that, I was playing pretty well.  I was 2-under before then.  I mean, I was just a little disappointed in how I finished.  It wasn't like I was hitting it bad going into yesterday.  That's what the score was.  No, not really.  I think I had it in me, just haven't really brought it every week.
Q. You have a lot of confidence anyways, but coming off a win, how much does that add to that and the momentum of that?
MINJEE LEE: I think it's, like you said, more momentum.  Every golfer has that sort of confidence that they can play out here because obviously we're playing with the best in the world.  Yeah, I mean, it's just momentum.  It's just timing, I think.  I came off a really great win last week, so I should have a lot of confidence and momentum coming into this week, too.
Q. I know you were asked about this before, but just coming here to a place where you've had success before in the past, how much is that helping you now?
MINJEE LEE: I sort of can't remember too much from 2012, but I know I have really great memories here.  I really love the golf course, and I think it's always in great condition.  Yeah, I love coming back here.
Q. Was there a particular shot that was a highlight of the day or a hole that was a highlight or a key to the round?
MINJEE LEE: Not particularly.  I had 3-under on the back nine, which was my front, and I birdied 18, so kind of -- I had a bit of confidence going into the next nine.  I was steady all day.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT