LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 16, 2016
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Happy to be joined in the media center by 2016 Lotte Championship presented by Hershey winner, Minjee Lee.   
Amazing round out there today.  What was the key to your strong play?   
MINJEE LEE: I was just very steady on the front nine.  I made two birdies.  Then on the back nine, I think I eagled the 13th hole.  I think that that was kind of my turning point.   
I just kind of made that eagle and then followed up with two birdies and a birdie as well.  I think that was the turning point of my round.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  After shooting a 74 yesterday, coming back with 64 today, what was the overnight adjustment coming into today?  
MINJEE LEE: Just because I had a not-so-great round yesterday didn't mean I couldn't shoot a low score today.  No, I just came out with, I don't know, a fresh mindset.  I just came out and just played one shot at time as I said before.   
I just shot 8-under.  It was good.   
 Q.  What did you do best today?  
MINJEE LEE: What did I do best?  What did I do best?   
I think more on the back nine I putted really well.  I was pretty clutch within 12 feet.  All of my birdies were pretty much 12 feet or just inside, so it was my putting.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
MINJEE LEE: Like 12 or 13 feet I would say.   
 Q.  Did Karrie Web text you yet to congratulate you?  
MINJEE LEE: I haven't checked my phone.  Haven't had the time to.   
 Q.  Have you talked to her recently?  
MINJEE LEE: I think I saw her at ANA and we just said hello and how are you.  Didn't really get into much conversation.   
 Q.  How excited are you about the possibility of the Olympics?  
MINJEE LEE: Really excited.  I mean, I think the Olympics is going to be great.  Just the atmosphere is going to be totally cool.  So, yeah, I'm really looking forward to it.   
THE MODERATOR: You won twice on tour now before your 20th birthday.  Has that hit you yet, that you've had so much success this early in your career?   
MINJEE LEE: No, not really.  I haven't really thought about it that way.  I mean, as I player you're always harder on yourself.   
No, I know that I'm doing pretty good, so I'm trying to be even better every day.  That's just my mindset.   
 Q.  As you were making your run on the back nine, how closely were you following what was going on behind you?  
MINJEE LEE: I can't hear you very well.   
Actually, I didn't really know where I stood until like maybe the 16th or 15th hole.  I think I had just glimpsed my name and was tied for second.  I birdied 17, so I was like, I'm going to be pretty close.   
That's when I kind of had an idea.   
THE MODERATOR: How far was the chip you had on 18 to get up and down for par?   
MINJEE LEE: Maybe like 15 meters.  Touch and go.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
MINJEE LEE: Three feet.   
THE MODERATOR: Did you have an idea on 18 that you may be in the lead when you walked off and signed your card?   
MINJEE LEE: Well, yeah.  I knew I was going to be pretty close.  I was either going to be second or tied for first.  I knew I had to make that putt on 18.   
THE MODERATOR: Anything else for Minjee?   
 Q.  So many young players are having a lot of success now; Lydia and you are friends.  As one of those young players, do you kind of realize that this is kind of a different thing and not really how it's always been?  
MINJEE LEE: I think the last couple of years we kind of saw a lot of the younger girls come out and really play well.  Yeah, I mean, I know that it's a really strong and a young, how do I say it, young group of players coming up.   
As you said, Lydia, Brooke, Sei Young, everyone is like under 25, so that's really young.   
 Q.  Is there something to attribute that to?  You guys had seen other people ahead of you do it that were young?  
MINJEE LEE: I mean, I think just being around the girls your age, I think they're all your rivals pretty much.  You want to beat each other.  That's going to motivate.  We're going to motivate each other by that way.   
Yeah, definitely.   
THE MODERATOR: We'll wrap it up with this one last one.   
How has the week been here in Hawaii?  What's the experience been like this week, and what will it mean to come back next year as defending champion?   
MINJEE LEE: The week has been really fun.  I mean, one of my mom's closest friends came over from Korea.  She's a really close auntie to me pretty much.   
It was really cool to spend some time with her and go down to the beach, because we're staying right on the apartments.  No, it was really a chill week.  Yeah, no, nice to get out with a W.   
THE MODERATOR: Awesome.  Congratulations again.  Look forward to seeing you back here next year.   
MINJEE LEE: Yeah.  Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT