LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 13, 2016
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You have to be really happy with a 4-under round today, especially in these conditions.  
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, I'm pretty happy.  It's so windy, so, I mean, under par, I'll take under par any day.  Yeah, especially today.  Anything under par I'm happy with.  4-under I'm (indiscernible).   
 Q.  What did you have on the last for your birdie?  
MINJEE LEE: I had 148 meters and I had -- I punched my 6-iron and then it kind of rode the wind and then it was like four feet.   
 Q.  (Take a little while to adjust to the wind?  
MINJEE LEE: Well, it wasn't that windy when we played, because I played in the morning, sort of like morning pro-am.  Then before when I practiced I played in like the middle of the day so it wasn't was so windy.   
I don't know.  It's going to be windy all week I think, so, yeah, get used to it in the days to come.   
 Q.  Think that suits your game?  The windy conditions give you a little bit of an advantage because you're such a good ball-striker?  
MINJEE LEE: I think you got to -- well, it helps if you're a good ball-striker, but also you need to judge the wind well as well, like how far you want to take it right or if the wind is right to left.   
You got to have some luck with it, too.  It's not just all your skill.  You never know.  Mother Nature can throw anything at you.  Yeah, no, I think I judged it really well today so I'm happy.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
MINJEE LEE: I think that's the hardest bit, like to putt on the greens when it's windy.  You obviously play for the wind, but you never know if it's going to push the ball -- like which way it's going to push it.   
No even like I think short putts is the hardest to putt, because, I don't know, you're over it and it's like the wind is whipping at you.   
So it's tricky to putt.   
 Q.  (Regarding three straight birdies.)  
MINJEE LEE: Yeah.   
 Q.  Par-3 there, what did you hit there?  
MINJEE LEE: I hit 5-iron.  Sort of the wind was whipping left to right and the pin was left.  I sort of took it out at the left palm tree.  You can see it off the tee.  Left palm tree, and it kind of came back.   
I think that's the closest I'm going to get to a left pin all week.  It was whipping pretty hard, but I hit a good shot, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT