HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 3, 2016
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Some good chances for yourself out there?  
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, I was playing steady and played pretty solid.  Hit some good shots, and just seized my birdie opportunities.   
 Q.  And you have to seize the opportunities when you can.  There was a wonderful eagle on the 12th hole?  
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, I hit my 5-wood in and it was just below the tier.  I managed to hole the putt, so it was nice.   
 Q.  That certainly picked up a couple of strokes.  How are the contact lenses working out for you?  
MINJEE LEE: Well, before Christmas, I got my eyes checked for the Olympics because we had to do a medical screening.  So, yeah, I'm wearing contacts now, and I have glasses at home when I don't wear contacts.   
They are working pretty well.  They dry out a little bit on the golf course when it's windy, so you always have eye drops.  It's good.   
 Q.  So you never knew your eyesight wasn't 100 percent or 20/20 until you had the Olympic medical?  
MINJEE LEE: The optometrist said two years it's been deteriorating.  She said my brain was just so used to it.  I was like, okay.  But now I can see like really, really clearly.   
 Q.  How are you coping with the windy conditions on Sentosa?  
MINJEE LEE: It's not more the wind.  It's more the heat and the humidity I think.  It wasn't as hot last week.  Yeah, just trying to keep cool and just drinking lots of water.   
 Q.  All the birds on the ground, are they a distraction?  
MINJEE LEE: Sometimes but most of the time they just like fly around you, not like at your ball.  So it's all right.  Like they are not too bad.   
 Q.  Did you consider LASER surgery instead?  
MINJEE LEE: No, she said right now I can't have them done or something.  I didn't really get the full details.   
 Q.  You must be extremely happy with that?  
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, starting off 5-under is pretty good for me, so I'm pretty happy.   
 Q.  Tell us about the eagle at 12.  What did you hit and how did it feel?  
MINJEE LEE: I hit my 5-wood into the green, and it was a little into the wind, so I think I had like 200 meters in.  Just hit the bottom tier and stayed there, so I was putting over the tier.  It was about 30 feet and I made it.  It was a nice eagle there.   
 Q.  Seemed to get a little bit windier as we hit late morning and afternoon.  Did you feel the effects of that?  
MINJEE LEE: Well, I think it was pretty much windy when I hit my first shot.  So it didn't change too much.  Just a little bit stronger towards the end of the day.   
 Q.  What would you say really worked for you today?  
MINJEE LEE: Nothing like stands out to me.  I was just really steady.  I tried to just minimize my mistakes and try and miss in the right spots.  Yeah, just when I hit it close, take advantage of my opportunities.  So that's where I made my birdies.   
 Q.  Steady used to be the key word for you?  
 Q.  You are playing very steady golf these days.  Have you changed anything?  
MINJEE LEE: Actually at Aussie Open, my coach was there and we tried to lower my ball flight a little bit.  So we were just working on some swing changes there.   
Yeah, I think I'm getting the hang of it.  It's been better.  We've been working on my putting a little bit more with my caddie and everyone.  So it's getting more steadier.   
 Q.  How will you prepare for tomorrow?  
MINJEE LEE: I might go for a swim after some practice, just to cool down.  Yeah, just have a good rest.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT