KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 15, 2015
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Great round today.   Impressive finish for you. 
MINJEE LEE:   Thank you.

Q.   How was the course today?
MINJEE LEE:   The course was playing pretty similar to yesterday, but I think the wind direction was a little bit different, so we had a couple different clubs. 
Yeah.

Q.   You add about an average of 15 yards to your driving today.   Something you tweaked a little bit overnight? 
MINJEE LEE:   No.   Maybe just a little bit better contact or maybe the wind was more downwind on the par‑5s or the drives that were measured. 

Q.   Go through some of your round today, some of your best holes, best shots, up and downs, things like that. 
MINJEE LEE:   Can I get my yardage book?   I'll wing it. 
Birdied the 8th hole ‑‑ oh, no, 9th hole, sorry, 18 for me, which was good.   Just kind of got the momentum going after 9.
Then I bogeyed the 10th, which was the first hole.   That was a bit of a bummer. 
I eagled the par‑5, which is like the 3rd hole, so that was a nice.

Q.   Did you chip it in or on in two?
MINJEE LEE:   I was on in two.   I had like seven feet, so that was nice. 
Then I birdied the next hole, which kind of rolled on from the eagle that I made which was really nice.
Then I just came home pretty solid.   Just made my pars and birdied the par‑5, No. 7, and then made a really good up and down on 8 to have a par, and just finished off with a par on 9.

Q.   At this point it looks like you're the leader in the clubhouse.   Do you like being on top with two days left, or do you prefer to be playing from behind?
MINJEE LEE:   This is my rookie year and kind of the first time I've been in this situation, so it's going to be a whole new experience.
I'm looking forward to being either one at the end of the day.

Q.   What's the mindset now for the next 36 holes for you?
MINJEE LEE:   My mindset, I just want to have fun with my caddie and play some really good golf.   Nothing too serious.   Just play each shot like I want to play it.
Yeah. 

Q.   You mentioned being your rookie year.   Can you kind of talk about the adjustment that you've done this year and this is the first time you're in contention. 
MINJEE LEE:   Yeah, it's my first year on tour, so I've kind of had to get used to going week in, week out and just figuring out where to go on my weeks off, because I can't go back to Australia.   It's really far away.
So far it's been good and bad.   I've had positives and negatives.   But it's been good so far and just want to build on this experience. 

Q.   How would you assess your performance thus far?   I think 6 top 30s.   When you make the cut you seem to have very solid finishes.   Are you pleased as a rookie with how you've played overall?
MINJEE LEE:   Yeah, I can't complain bout my start because it's been really great so far and I've had a lot of good experiences with a lot of different players.
Yeah, I'm quite happy with my top 30s, but hopefully I can get my top 15s and top 10s.

Q.   How do you think the golf course played today as opposed to yesterday?
MINJEE LEE:   As I said, I think the wind direction is a little bit different today.   The greens were rolling really good because it was in the morning, I played in the morning.
Yeah, just I think it's going to be pretty similar to yesterday. 

Q.   Going back to the eagle on 3, what did you hit out of the fairway to knock it to seven feet on the green?
MINJEE LEE:   I hit 4‑iron. 

Q.   Must have been big off the tee then. 
MINJEE LEE:   I had like 170 meters to the front and it was like 190 or something. 
Just wanted to land it on the front or just short of the front so it can roll to the pin. 
So, yeah, it was exactly how I wanted it to go.

Q.   You had so much success as an amateur.   Do you have to take a different approach now as a professional, or can you draw on some of the same experiences? 
MINJEE LEE:   I think I can draw on some of the experiences, because I played four of the five majors last year so I could get the feel for what the LPGA was like and to play with the professionals, what that experience was kind of like.
So I think more build on that. 

Q.   And you did well in those majors, too.   That had to even fuel your confidence more, right?
MINJEE LEE:   Yeah, definitely.   I mean, to have good finishes in majors was a confirmation to myself saying, Oh, I can play with these girls out here.
Yeah, no, it was good.

Q.   Was it neat to be the top‑ranked amateur in the world before you turned professional, kind of going out on top?
MINJEE LEE:   Yeah, yeah, we played the World Championships and Australia won, and then the week after I turned pro and debuted at the Evian. 
It was like the perfect timing just a really good transition.

Q.   Has the adjustment been more physical or mental coming from the amateur ranks to the LPGA Tour? 
MINJEE LEE:   I think a little bit of both.   I think now that I get into most of the events, you play a lot more than I was as an amateur.   Physically a little bit, but more mentally I think just kind of it's a battlefield out here.
So I think you really got to being strong mentally here.

Q.   Even as a teenager are you in the fitness trailer?
MINJEE LEE:   Oh, yeah, I love working out.   Whenever we have a really good gym and really good facilities it's really a treat, because I can go work out during the week.

Q.   What type of work outs do you do and most golfers do?   Cardio? 
MINJEE LEE:   I think lots of the girls do cardio or maybe Pilates and yoga.   I think Suzann does weights.   Look at her.

Q.   Where did your length come from off the tee? 
MINJEE LEE:   I work out a lot.   I've been really working on my strength over the years because I'm not very big. 
So just, I don't know, work out, just keeping on top of the things.   And good timing. 

Q.   Steady start there and then really got going on the back nine today.   What were the keys throughout your round today? 
MINJEE LEE:   Probably the birdie on 18.   It kind of swung my momentum around and I could kind of get it going. 
Even my eagle on 3, I mean, that really kind of got my round going.

Q.   Take me through the eagle. 
MINJEE LEE:   I hit my drive and it was downwind, that hole today, so it was quite far down there.   I hit 4‑iron in.   I had about 190 meters, and, yeah, I was like seven feet.
Holed the putt and was is it eagle, so... 

Q.   Awesome.   You you're having a pretty good rookie season so far.   Talk about the learning curve. 
MINJEE LEE:   Being out here you really have to manage your time well and just be organized with what you're going to practice, because you don't want to burn out if you have like three or four weeks in a row.
Just that and just physically kind of pacing yourself.   Just being out here mentally I think you have to be really tough.   There are so many girls competing for the No. 1 spot.
Yeah, just get your head around that and I think you'll be all right. 

Q.   And then solid first two days.   What do you need to do well on this golf course to keep yourself in contention and continue to play well?
MINJEE LEE:   I think the par‑5s, you can gain a shot there if you make birdie, so that's going to be good. 
And just putt and drive the ball well, I think. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT