KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 16, 2015
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Great round again today.   2‑under for the day, 9‑under for the tournament.   Take me through the day today.   
MINJEE LEE:   It was kind of a grind.   I mean, I didn't really stuff it up and just play amazing golf.   I was just kind of in between.   
I had a good couple birdies and I had good scrambles today.   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   The weather was a little bit different.   I know it was a little bit warmer out here.   Did that affect your ball play at all.   
MINJEE LEE:   No.   I grew up in a pretty hot place, so it wasn't too bad for e.   Although I have blushy cheeks.  
   
 Q.   It was a pretty crowded leaderboard, especially toward the end.   There was a lot birdies going on, a few eagles.   Were you watching the leaderboard?  
MINJEE LEE:   Yeah, I always just look at the leaderboard here and again.   On 17 I did and on the last green.   I really wanted to make the putt better.  
It didn't go in, so hopefully they all drop tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   What's going to be your game plan going into the final round tomorrow?  
MINJEE LEE:   I don't think I'll be in the last group, so I think I can be pretty aggressive and still play conservatively where I have to, but still try and make my putts and go for the pins.  
   
 Q.   Being in contention, this is your first time being a professional out here, of course.   Different mindset?   Are you going to change your game plan at all?  
MINJEE LEE:   No.   I just wanted to have a fun round with Alison because I know her pretty well.  
We had a pretty ‑‑ we didn't talk much.   We played really quickly.   That's all I know.  
   
 Q.   I heard you guys have a pretty cool relationship.   Can you talk about that and how you know each other?   
MINJEE LEE:   We've known each other for a couple years.   Like U.S. Girls, that's when I first met her.   We were in the finals together 2012.   That was pretty cool.   
Then we met at next U.S. Girls and U.S. Ams, so we got to become pretty good friends.  
Then we met again at Q‑School.   That was good.  
   
 Q.   The rest is history.   
MINJEE LEE:   Yes.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT