THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 12, 2014
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   4‑under par.   Great playing out there.   What was working well for you out there? 
MINJEE LEE:   Definitely my putting.   I think it really helped today.   I wasn't hitting it really that that close, but I think my putting really saved me.

Q.   Playing first time as a professional this week.   Any differences playing out there knowing you're a pro? 
MINJEE LEE:   Not really like playing‑wise, but I feel like it should be different.   But not really.   I feel really comfortable and really like I feel like I belong here.

Q.   So no extra nerves on the first tee when you tee'd up?
MINJEE LEE:   Oh, yeah.   Yesterday, yeah, a little bit of nerves. 
Today was much better.

Q.   We got to know you at the International Crown when you were playing for Australia.   What did that experience do for you in terms of playing as a professional in this environment?
MINJEE LEE:   Well, I got play with Karrie all four days, so just playing with her and gaining that experience was priceless.   It was good.

Q.   You were ranked the No. 1 amateur in the world.   What led to your decision of turning pro right now?
MINJEE LEE:   I think it was just a really good time.   We finished the World Am and we got the win, so it was just good timing.   I just finished on a high. 

Q.   Congratulation on that World Amateur win.   That was pretty exciting for Team Australia.   You've played in a number of events around the world.   How does that help you as you starts your professional career?
MINJEE LEE:   I think just knowing that I can compete with the girls out here and feeling comfortable in playing on tour.   Kind of helps me feel like I can play out here.

Q.   Just excited.   Definitely made the first cut as a professional.   Was that a goal this week?
MINJEE LEE:   Yeah, after the first round I was like, Just want to make the cut.   So glad I had a good round today.

Q.   What are your plans after the Evian Championship?   Is your playing schedule set for the rest of the year?
MINJEE LEE:   No, not yet.   But I am playing second stage Q‑School for the LPGA and I'll be playing in Korea. 

Q.   Best of luck in Q‑School, Korea, and the rest of this week. 








END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT