LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 16, 2014
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Welcome in Minjee Lee, turned in a 3‑under 69 today, a very solid day.   We keep asking players about windy conditions.   How did you fare in those and how big of a factor were they today?   
MINJEE LEE:   Well, my score doesn't really show how hard the wind was today, but I felt like every hole was into the wind.   Yeah, I think I played pretty well, although I hit a really high ball.   Just took one shot at a time, which you have to do out here, otherwise it's way too hard.   
THE MODERATOR:   I know you had a lot of fun out there, we could tell on the telecast that you had a lot of laughs, a lot of smiles.   What was the best part about playing with those two and what were some of the conversations that you guys had today?   
MINJEE LEE:   Yeah, we had a really young group today, Lydia and myself and Hyo Joo.   We just had fun out there and a lot of laughs, a lot of smiles.   I think it looks good on telly and just having fun out there was the main goal for me.   
THE MODERATOR:   Anything golf conversation‑wise or were you talking about other things other than golf?   Anything that keeps the mood light?   
MINJEE LEE:   Not golf.   Food.   We were talking about how much we eat on the course and just girl stuff.   
MODERATOR:   Who eats the most out of you three?   Who had the best snacks?   
MINJEE LEE:   I think definitely Lydia.   She just keeps eating a little bit here and there.   
   
 Q.   Take us through the eagle on 5?  
MINJEE LEE:   Well, I made a bogey the hole before.   So I was just like, oh, let's just make a birdie, because it was a par 5.   So the wind normally is kind of cross but today was more down, so I could go for the left side of the fairway.   So I had like 168 and it was a bit crosswind and I hit hybrid on to the green.   It was about like 18 to 20 feet.   Then I holed the putt.   
   
 Q.   How big of a statement was that for you just to get an eagle on the front nine and keep things going?  
MINJEE LEE:   I was 1‑over and it jumped me to 1‑under.   So definitely just scoring‑wise there.   
   
 Q.   This is your first time playing in Korea, so how do you feel about playing in Korea?   And this is the second event for you, and the last event you did very well and you're off to a very nice start at this championship.   So what is your goal about this particular event?   
MINJEE LEE:   Obviously my background is Korean, so it's a great honor for me to play in Korea.   It's my first time, and I was a little bit nervous because, you know, you're pretty much playing for your home crowd, even though you're not, but you are.   Yeah, I think I really wanted to have fun today.   I had a good group, so that's what I did.   
I've had a good start, so I'm hoping Top‑5, is my goal.   
   
 Q.   Like you said, you were playing with your friends, so I think in a way that helped your game.   But I want to ask about the last hole, did you feel pressure to birdie, too?   
MINJEE LEE:   Not really.   I was more impressed than felt pressure.   Both girls made birdie before me, so I was like, I should make birdie, too, so I did.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT