INTERNATIONAL CROWN
July 24, 2014
Minjee Lee
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KELLY THESIER:   Good afternoon, everyone.   We would like to welcome Team Australia to the interview room, Karrie Webb and Minjee Lee, who won their match 2‑up.   
Karrie, we have heard so much talk about you finally getting to play for Team Australia and we saw a lot of emotion.   I saw you singing the National Anthem on that first tee.   What was that moment like for you?   
KARRIE WEBB:   It was very special.   It probably drew more emotion from me than I thought it was going to.   The atmosphere on the first tee was pretty cool with the music and the crowd being there.   
I really enjoyed the first tee experience today.   Actually, I think maybe a little bit more nervous than I thought I was going to be as well.  
KELLY THESIER:   Minjee, a very impressive performance out there today.   A lot of people have heard about your game but hopefully a lot more got to see it today.   You were pretty impressive playing alongside a Hall of Famer.   What was the experience like playing with Karrie and what were the nerves like for you on the first tee when you heard the anthem as well?   
MINJEE LEE:   Yeah, I was a little bit nervous starting off today.   Like I should be, right?   And just a little bit more, because I know we heard the National Anthem and just the atmosphere was kind of a little nerve wracking, but exciting as well.   
KELLY THESIER:   Karrie, you guys got down early in the match, but were able to battle back.   What was the key moment and how impressive was it to watch some of the play that Minjee put together later on in the match?   
KARRIE WEBB:   I don't know if there was any key in particular, but I think that we combined really well.   I made some solid pars for us and I let Minjee make all the birdies for us.   So that was nice to sit back and watch her play really well and perform really well under pressure.   
KELLY THESIER:   Questions for Karrie and Minjee?   
   
 Q.   I know you've worked with Minjee before.   How satisfying is that for you to see a player that you've mentored her so well in an event like this?   
KARRIE WEBB:   I'm really proud of Minjee today.   Firstly, I'm glad that I actually saw that she does get nervous.   She was a little nervous the first couple holes and it took a little bit to settle in.   But she made a great birdie on the 4th hole and away she went.   
Just really proud of her performance and it's fun to watch and we'll be watching it for many years to come.  
   
 Q.   Did it surprise you that your emotions came to the surface as they did this morning?   You have a good singing voice by the way.   
KARRIE WEBB:   I hope no one could hear me.   I was trying not to sink sing enough for anyone to hear how off pitch I was.   Sorry.   What was the beginning of your question?   
KELLY THESIER:   Were you surprised by how emotional you were?   
KARRIE WEBB:   Yes and no.   I'm a bit of a sap sometimes, so I wasn't surprised.   I mean, because I'm not in Australia very often, I don't get to hear my National Anthem very often, so generally I could hear it when I'm watching like a football game and get tears in my eyes, I think, just because I don't get to hear it very often and how proud I am to be Australian.   
So I wasn't surprised, but I guess I was a little bit.   And that, you know, it did mean a lot for me to be standing on the first tee.  
   
 Q.   How would you assess the first day of this inaugural event in terms of crowds, atmosphere, and everything you saw out there?   
KARRIE WEBB:   I think it was a success.   I didn't think we would have first tee atmosphere like Solheim Cup does.   But the stands were full and everyone was getting into it.   So I didn't expect that the big crowds around the first tee and first green would stay with us.   
Obviously, it's a pretty pro American crowd so they should be following their country.   But we had good crowds out there, a lot of Korean fans out there.   But we had a few boisterous Aussie supporters.   So the atmosphere was great and the competition was great and just glad we came away with two points.   
   
 Q.   Karrie, we were talking to Yani and she feels like this event could maybe jump start her a little bit.   I just wonder if you could sort of address that.   You've been No. 1, you've won a lot and then your game goes away for a little while, how tough is it to get your confidence back and just what that's like when you've been at the very top?   
KARRIE WEBB:   Fortunately, I probably haven't had the highs and the lows like Yani.   But I've had some times in my career where I've haven't had a lot of self confidence out there, even when I really should have.   
But I can sympathize with where Yani is, because I think when she was No. 1 in the world, she didn't really enjoy that position as much.   I think she enjoyed the good golf, but there was a lot of pressure that came along with it and a lot of responsibility.   She even made the comment that she was relieved last year to not be No. 1.   
I found myself at one point in my career just wanting to be No. 2.   I think when you don't set your sites to be as good as you can be, whatever that is, you're holding yourself back.   I think that's when you don't play to the best of your ability and then the self confidence and the self doubt starts to occur.   
   
 Q.   Minjee, this is not to make Karrie feel old or anything, but you were born the same year she had her phenomenal Rookie of the Year season.   
KARRIE WEBB:   That isn't the first time we have talked about that this week.   
(Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   But can you sort of address what she's meant to Australians in terms she's been at the top of a sport for so long, what you feel like she means to your country and then also what she means to you as an inspiration?   
MINJEE LEE:   Yeah, I think that she's a role model for every golfer who is out there and little girls, little boys, everyone, really.   I think what she's done has been really great for Australian golf, just to give hope to everyone that we can make it and we can do it.   
KELLY THESIER:   You have determined your pairings already.   Looking forward to tomorrow, any changes for you guys in strategy?   I know, Karrie, earlier in the week, you were hoping to play with everybody.   Do you think that's something that's probably going to happen for Team Australia?   
KARRIE WEBB:   Are they announced?   
KELLY THESIER:   They're getting close, you can talk about it.   It's okay.  
KARRIE WEBB:   Okay.   We decided to stay with the same formula as today.   Katherine and Lindsey wanted another crack at it.   They felt like they played pretty well today.   Inbee and So Yeon made a couple of big putts, a chip in, I think, and I think they felt like they were closer than the score line.   I think they wanted to have another crack at it.   
I really enjoyed playing with Minjee and I think we feel like we can go with that combination again and maybe even get four points at the end of the day.   The only difference is that Minjee and I are going out first.   
KELLY THESIER:   Have you been having trouble keeping track of Minjee this week with your team?   I heard that's been like a struggle is trying to find her.  
KARRIE WEBB:   She does sneak off every now and then.   
KELLY THESIER:   But the important part is that she shows up when needed on the golf course.  
KARRIE WEBB:   She does.   She definitely showed up today.  
KELLY THESIER:   Well, thank you, ladies, very much.   Best of luck tomorrow.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT