KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 6, 2014
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   We're here with Minjee Lee, the leading amateur today, playing in your first Kraft Nabisco.   What was it like for you?
MINJEE LEE:   It was such a great week.   I had a great time, like just the atmosphere and having the crowds, and it was just really good.   I haven't experienced this before, so it was really good. 

Q.   Take us through your round today.   What was working for you and what wasn't? 
MINJEE LEE:   Well, I started really like shaky.   I hit it over here on the first hole, and I was like, oh, okay, it's going to be a good day.   Well, doubled the first, and I birdied the second, but bogeyed the third.   It just evened out. 
Yeah, I birdied the ninth, so it was like, okay, I'm coming back.   That was good, and then I made a couple birdies coming in, so just finished with even.   Just pretty steady. 

Q.   Touching on International Crown, those teams have been set, players have been set.   What does it mean to you to be able to play in that tournament, especially with someone like Karrie Webb?
MINJEE LEE:   Well, it's the first time they're playing this kind of tournament, and I think it'll be great fun.   It will be great for the Tour and just great to have just everyone there competing against the best pretty much.   I think it'll be a great experience for me, and yeah, I'll just have good fun out there.

Q.   Karrie Webb is your leader.   Can you talk about what it would mean to play with her specifically?
MINJEE LEE:   Well, she's been great to us so far.   Like she's given us as much advice as we want, and she answered our questions whenever we need.   Yeah, it's just a great pleasure to play with her, and it's a good honor, I think.

Q.   And other than someone like Karrie Webb from your home country, is there anybody else out here on Tour that you were looking forward to meeting or watching?
MINJEE LEE:   I really wanted to play with Suzann, but she didn't play this week unfortunately.   But I did get to see her at the Aussie Open.

Q.   And why Suzann? 
MINJEE LEE:   Oh, I don't know.   Just when I watched TV and stuff, she's always been like my favorite.   I think she's just really determined, and we can see that definitely.   Just her game is great. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT