MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY DANA
August 8, 2020
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. All right, Minjee.  First off, what a way to end that round today.  Take us through that shot.  What was going through your mind?
MINJEE LEE:   Actually not too much.  I was just like really zooming in on like the -- where I wanted to land it because it was quite sloped left to right.
Yeah, no, I just tried to hit it as high as I could and with as much spin as I could, and it ended up trickling in.  That was nice to finish with an eagle.
Q. When you watched it roll across the green, were you saying anything to yourself?
MINJEE LEE:   I was like, It looks good.  And just like when it trickled in I was like, Yes.
Q. I love that.  With that also, I mean, what day out there.  Moving day especially.  It was a little up and down, but take us through your round.  What were you feeling out there on the course?
MINJEE LEE:   You know what?  I was feeling pretty good the first nine.  I turned 3-under, and like after I turned, in the probably like the next five, six holes I was on the clock a little bit and I felt like I rushed a little bit.
But that's what happens when you're a little bit behind in your group.  Yeah, I felt like I was just really going through the holes and trying to keep up with the group in front.
Yeah, I mean, it was just really nice to finish with an eagle.  I think I needed a little pick-me-up there.
Q. I know, like you said, you were put on the clock a little bit.  Kind of felt a little rushed.  What do you say to yourself mentally or how do you kind of refocus, or is it difficult to do that over every single shot like that?
MINJEE LEE:   I mean, it's pretty hot out there and just the greens are really firming up now.  I think -- I just try to focus on each shot and just try to gather my focus every time I was like walking up to the ball.  Because I was trying to walk fast and then be focused to hit my shot.
So, yeah, that's pretty much what I tried to do.  In that stretch I had two bogeys, so a little bit disappointing, but hopefully better tomorrow.
Q. This is the second week in a row I feel like we've been talking to you almost every single day.  How confident are you in your game heading into tomorrow?
MINJEE LEE:   You know, for most the day I putted pretty solid and hit pretty solid shots, too.  Yeah, I'm pretty -- I feel like I'm pretty consistent over the last couple days, so hopefully I can take that into tomorrow.
Q. I know we've got Scotland ahead of us and just one more rounds of Marathon to go.  What would it mean for you to be able to go shoot low enough to grab another title, another year, another title?
MINJEE LEE:   I mean, obviously it would be amazing.  It's really hard to win out on the LPGA Tour.  All the girls are so amazing.  They play really well.
Yeah, no, it would just mean the world to me.  Hopefully I can post a nice, low score tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT