MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY DANA
August 7, 2020
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Here with Minjee Lee, ending the day today I believe at 7-under.  Got off to the bogey on No. 1, but what happened after that to just jump start your round?
MINJEE LEE:   I mean, obviously not a very good start if you bogey the 1st hole, but I bounced back with two birdies.  That was pretty nice.
And then after that I think I was pretty steady, and I made three birdies on the back nine.  So, yeah.
Q. What is about staying consistent out there on a course like this?
MINJEE LEE:   I think some holes played a little bit longer than yesterday, so I think just to stay on the fairways and hitting the greens is really important, especially going into the weekend.
Q. You had Lexi in your group as well, and both of you seemed to be trading birdies left and right.  What was that like?  Does that push you to do even better in our group?
MINJEE LEE:   She hit some really good shots really close to the pins today, so, yeah, she played really nicely.  I think it does help with a little bit of momentum.  I think if you're bouncing off each other's birdies I think it is good.
Q. Remember last week you said that the strong finish that he had at Inverness really gave you the confidence in your game to just keep going.  Do you feel that confidence after two rounds here at Marathon?
MINJEE LEE:   I remember saying like I need to work on my putting a little bit, and I holed a couple of really, really long putts today, so I was happy.
Q. Was the course playing any different today versus yesterday, or pretty similar?
MINJEE LEE:   I think it was pretty similar, but obviously in the morning it's a little bit more wetter so I think like your drives don't roll out as much.
Towards the end of my day it was a little bit drier.  I think it just played a little bit longer, but other than this the greens were in really nice condition.  Yeah, it was good.
Q. Two obviously very good rounds to open play.  How much confidence does that give you going into this weekend?
MINJEE LEE:   I definitely feel like I'm trending in the right direction, and this is the second event back after the really long break.  So, yeah, I'm pretty happy with my result so far, and hopefully an even better weekend.
Q. You couldn't ask for two more different tests from Inverness to here.  Which do you prefer, the birdiefest or anything around par wins?
MINJEE LEE:   I think I like both.  I mean, I really like the challenge of Inverness and just like the rough was really like -- I guess really crucial around the greens.
Here I think it's a little bit longer, and just I think you really need to hit the fairways to have a really good chance of stopping it on the greens.
So just a little bit of -- a little bit different I think overall in terms of like obviously making more birdies and having to like scramble for par.
So I like the challenge of both.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT