KIA CLASSIC
March 27, 2021
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Okay, Minjee, we'll start off with the eagle on number 9.  Take us through though hole.
 MINJEE LEE:   Actually I didn't really know where the pin was like exactly, but my caddie was like, Oh, just aim at the little tree that's poking out on the right side.
 So hit it at that and I hit 3-wood and went to about six feet under the hole, so it was a nice look at eagle.
 Q. Yeah, they had a few tee boxes moved up.  Go through maybe see how many about were moved up and how they kind of played to your advantage.
 MINJEE LEE:   Yeah, so 8 I think was up on the tee, so I think I hit 7-iron in on that hole.
 And then 9 was up, so we could drive the green.
 And then 16 was up, so that's drivable as well.
 And then 17 tee was slightly up, but it's kind of a long stretch for me to get there in two.
 Yeah, that was all, I think.  Yeah, I think off the top of my head, yeah.
 Q. Did it make it a little more scorable, a little more fun out there to try and figure out exactly how to attack the course?
 MINJEE LEE:   It was actually quite fun.  I mean, we don't really get too many opportunities like this.  I think they really made a good moving day kind of course setup.
 So, no, it was very fun out there.
 Q. Sitting now at 7-under overall, T-2, five back of Inbee.
 MINJEE LEE:   Uh-huh.
 Q. How do you track down Inbee or can you track down Inbee?
 MINJEE LEE:   I don't know.  I mean, I guess some things have to go my way tomorrow, but I think just, you know, play aggressive, try and make as many birdies as I can to start, and try to close that gap.
 But, you know, she's probably going to have a five-shot lead going into tomorrow.  Yeah, I'll just try my best.
 Q. Do you hope the course is set up a little more like today or do you hope it's maybe a little more set up like the first couple days?
 MINJEE LEE:   You know, either way it's good.  I mean, we all have to play the same golf course.  But I think today it's more of -- it would be a more -- like the course setup today would be a more exciting finish.
 But I think they will, you know, pick your battles.  You know, some are going to be in tough spots, like the pins obviously on Sunday.  So, yeah, be we'll just see what it's like tomorrow.
 Q. As you were going out there, it's a methodical course.  You got to pick your spots.
 MINJEE LEE:   Yeah.
 Q. What was it like today specifically in your group?  How did you guys maybe bounce off each other?
 MINJEE LEE:   Yeah, I mean, I played with all my friends today, so it was really fun.  Yeah, we just -- I think we just had good chat and it was just really chill.
 The first couple holes -- maybe, I don't know, I was a little nervous, but, I mean, we were very, very quiet.
 So I was like, Oh, nobody a talking.  But, no, it was good.  It was kind of like adds catchup sesh today.  It was fun.
 Q. Good to be out there.
 MINJEE LEE:   Yeah.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT