LPGA DRIVE ON CHAMPIONSHIP
August 2, 2020
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. Here with Minjee Lee.  We had all sorts of weather today, which really changes this course from the sun to the rain.  How did you plan for today's round?
 MINJEE LEE:   Really the sun just came out probably my last three holes.  So like yesterday and today it was pretty similar in terms of rain and maybe a little bit of like the little wetter conditions.
 So I don't think it was too difficult to adjust.  Yeah.
 Q. What was it like out there knowing that kind of after all the rain, what it does to this course, did that change the way you thought about hitting some of these greens?
 MINJEE LEE:   The course definitely played longer after last night's rain and even today, so we just had a couple longer irons into the greens.  And obviously if you hit the fairway it's going to give you a little bit of an advantage.
 So, yeah, overall I think I played pretty solid.  Yeah, I'm happy with my result.
 Q. Have you checked the leaderboard since coming off, or were you one of those maybe checking throughout the round?
 MINJEE LEE:   Yeah, Gillie and I, we checked how I was doing.  I knew I was a couple -- I was pretty far off, so I was like, Let's just make a couple more birdies for me.
 Yeah, I just finished strong, so I'm happy with that.
 Q. You did.  Your back nine with a couple birdies, being an able to go bogey-free.  What was that like for you?  What was the strategy there?
 MINJEE LEE:   I bogeyed -- no, I birdied my 9th hole, and then I was like, Let's make a couple more finishing.  So three bids in the back nine to finish, so I'm happy with that.
 Q. What kind of confidence does this give you?  You now have an LPGA event under your belt after such a long break.  What confidence does that give you going into the rest of your schedule?
 MINJEE LEE:   To be honest, I felt a little bit rusty with maybe like my shorter putts, just maybe a little bit of nerves with that.
 But I think when I play a little bit more in a couple more events I'll be able to get in the rhythm of things.  Yeah, hopefully next week is a good week as well.
 Q. What do you do when you feel rusty from the competition, not being able to go out there and play in an LPGA Tour event?  What do you say to yourself?  What do you work on?  What are you doing to prepare for next week?
 MINJEE LEE:   I'll probably just do a little bit more preparation around the greens and maybe map the greens a little bit more when I do my practice rounds.
 So, yeah, I think other than that, I'm striking it pretty good.  Yeah, hopefully it's good week next week.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT