SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
November 2, 2019
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How would you describe today?  
MINJEE LEE: I turned 2-under and then I made a couple of birdies on the back. I'm pretty happy with how I played today. It wasn't as windy as probably the first day, but yeah, a little bit of wind out there and it was swirling a little bit. That was the trickiest bit today.   
 Q.  Tell us about the course condition.  
MINJEE LEE: The course, it's in great condition. I think the greens were probably slightly slower than yesterday, but other than that, it's just a little windy out here.   
 Q.  So for tomorrow?  
MINJEE LEE: I think Nelly is going to be either two or three shots ahead starting tomorrow. I think I can play pretty aggressively and just pretty much try and not leave anything out there. So I'll just play my own game and have some fun.   
 Q.  Do you prefer when you have to come from behind in a final round?  
MINJEE LEE: I think it's probably an easier position to be in just because you can -- I guess you have a little bit more motivation -- I don't know but obviously maybe Nelly will have motivation to win. I think it's just a little bit easier to be in the mind-set of chasing than trying to like lead. So yeah, I mean, I've been in both positions before, so it's nothing new to me. I'll just take it as it comes.   
 Q.  Have you and Nelly played together?  
MINJEE LEE: I don't think -- not really. Just I think last year I was a couple groups ahead when she won. We weren't really playing in the same group. I don't think I've played with her too much in like amateur stuff or anything. So it will be the first time we're in the final group together this time around.   
 Q.  And you were runner-up here last year.  
MINJEE LEE: Not at this course.   
 Q.  Are you able to take anything away from that, even though it was at a different course?  
MINJEE LEE: I really played myself into that second spot. So I think I was probably maybe like four or five shots behind before the day started, so I think I had maybe 4-under or something to finish second.   
I mean, not really. I think it's a totally different situation, so I'll just take tomorrow as it comes and try and have some fun and make a lot of birdies.   
 Q.  How does the weather change your strategy?  
MINJEE LEE: I think pick your battles out there. Obviously if there's water or hazard or wind, you're going to play more conservatively than like too aggressively. I think the LPGA does a good job of like kind of balancing out the weather and the pin positions, so hopefully they will put pins in spots that are fair but tricky at the same time. So yeah, hopefully it will be a fun day.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT