CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 22, 2019
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You ended at 3-under. Great way to start the tournament. How are you feeling right now?
MINJEE LEE: Pretty good. I mean, the first nine I turned 1-over, so I felt like I missed a couple opportunities coming to the end of the front nine.
It was nice to be able to make up some ground. I know Brooke is at 6-under and probably leading. It was good coming in.
Q. What do you think turned it around for you on the back nine?
MINJEE LEE: Well, I've been hitting it -- I was hitting it pretty good. Just like some of my tee shots went in the rough so I couldn't really judge the shot very well on the front nine.
On the back nine I just hit a couple more fairways and was able to hit some better iron shots into the greens. It was -- yeah, just holed a few putts and then I made eagle on -- what's the second par-5 on the back nine?
Q. Was it 14?
MINJEE LEE: Yeah.
Q. AON risk/reward challenge hole.
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, I eagled that hole, so that was nice. Yeah, just par'd in from there.
Q. Tell me about that eagle. Make AON happy.
MINJEE LEE: I hit a good drive down the middle. I think I had like 200 and -- who knows, 200 and -- it was slightly into the wind. I had 227 meters to the pin, so hit 3-wood. Hit the perfect spot on the fairway and just rolled to -- the pin is like on the front right today, so just rolled towards the pin.
I was just off the green and I holed the putt, so, yeah, it was nice.
Q. Were you thinking about going for it for a challenge hole?
MINJEE LEE: Well, I didn't even know it was a challenge hole, to be honest. I was just trying to make as many birdies as I could. The hole before I just missed my birdie putt, so I was like, Oh, if I could make birdie it would be nice. Yeah, eagle even better.
Q. You guys had the biggest fans.
MINJEE LEE: Yeah.
Q. The biggest amount of fans out here playing with Brooke. What was the experience like today?
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, I mean, they were really, really good. They were cheering for all of us, so I didn't feel like it was only for Brooke. Definitely more for Brooke, but it was nice.
I mean, any time we have a good crowd it's great for the game and great for little kids. Yeah, no, it's just really nice this everybody comes out to support their star.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT