ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
August 10, 2019
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Low round of the day, 7-under par, no bogeys.  What went well for you out there today?  
MINJEE LEE: I just hit it closer.  I played in the late/early wave, so these conditions were a treat for me after yesterday.  I just tried to take advantage as much as I could.   
 Q.  How much different has the golf course played every day for you?  
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, I mean, I've had pretty steady wind, but then yesterday was like rain and wind.  So I think that wave had almost the worst conditions that it could get.  So we just sort of try and prepare mentally if we get those conditions.   
Yeah, I mean, every day has been a different experience, but it's been really fun.   
 Q.  Runner-up here last year, and obviously nice round today.  What is it you love about Scotland?  
MINJEE LEE: I don't know, I just always like coming here and I like links golf.  That's one reason why I like coming to Scotland, but I just think it's an element of surprise because you don't know what the weather is going to give you to.  I just try to figure it out every single day, so, yeah.   
 Q.  How much confidence, knowing that you can post a number like 7-under, does that give you going into the final round, a couple shots back?  
MINJEE LEE: I'm probably going to be quite a few shots back, but obviously that means I can be pretty aggressive and I don't have to leave anything out there.  So I can just be aggressive and try and make as many birdies as I can.  That's pretty much how I'm going to try and tackle the course tomorrow, considering what the weather's going to be like.   
 Q.  Do you prefer to play from behind on a Sunday?  
MINJEE LEE: I think if you are close to the lead or have the lead, it's going to be -- it's good.  But I think it's probably easier to play from just behind.  But obviously if you have the lead, you can try and extend the lead as much as possible.  So just depends how you see it.   
 Q.  You came in here into the week as the highest-ranked player?  
MINJEE LEE: I did.   
 Q.  Answers my question; is that something that plays in your mind, when you think about having to perform?  
MINJEE LEE: Not really.  My game has been a little up-and-down as of late, but I've had a couple good finishes here and there, but I would like to get a bit more consistent because I've had such a long stretch.  This is fifth week in a row.  Yeah, I pretty much just came into this week wanting to enjoy myself.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT