HUGEL-AIR PREMIA LA OPEN
April 28, 2019
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Fifth time winner on the LPGA Tour.  You made it look easy out there.  When things got tight, what were you telling yourself early in the back nine?  
MINJEE LEE: I wasn't aware until probably that first par-5 on the back nine, so, yeah, I mean, I was just going to carry on playing my own game.  I had a couple birdie opportunities coming in, so I didn't get rattled up or anything.   
 Q.  What do you think this says to you about your game, winning on what many believe is one of the best if not "the" best tests of golf on the LPGA Tour?  
MINJEE LEE: Well, coming in, the first half of the year that I've had, I been hitting it pretty solid and playing pretty solid.  I felt like it was close, so, yeah, I feel pretty good with this one.   
 Q.  You know your caddie; you guys are pretty close.  You know the situation his mom faces now battling cancer.  Does that make this one feel a little more special for Jason?  
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, definitely.  This was definitely for Loraine, so hopefully she's proud of me and proud of Jason.  Yeah, no, it's nice.   
 Q.  Does this readjust your goals for the rest of the year, or have they always been reaching for the sky?  
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, I'm just always going to try my best, so I'll just go out for the rest of the year, do my best, have fun, and try and get a couple more wins.   
 Q.  People are going to start putting you in the conversation with Karrie Webb, even though that's a long ways off.  But she's been so instrumental in your career as well.  What do you have to say to what she has done for you to make this kind of format, platform possible for you?  
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, she was pretty much my first role model coming from Australia.  She's one of the best, so, yeah, it's really special for her to be, I mean, being around in my life.  I got the pleasure to play with her on tour at the same time, so that's pretty special to me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT