HUGEL-AIR PREMIA LA OPEN
April 27, 2019
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Seven birdies on the day.  What was the key for you to find so many birdies throughout your round?  
MINJEE LEE: Well, on the third hole I made a triple, so I started well with two birdies and then I had a triple.  Sort of fought my way back to my score today.   
Yeah, pretty solid all round.   
 Q.  What did you tell yourself after the triple?  
MINJEE LEE: You know, after that I wasn't super nervous or anything.  I just sort of tried to believe in myself and just go out there and make as many birdies as I can, try and hit as many good shots as I can.   
Yeah, just did that.   
 Q.  What kind of confidence does it give you making so many birdies?  
MINJEE LEE: I think both of us, Nanna and I, we made a lot of birdies today.  I think we sort of fed off each other, which was really nice.  Yeah, nice confidence for tomorrow.   
 Q.  What's it like playing with someone who is playing so well?  
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, it's good.  I mean, sort of feels like match play a little bit because you're only playing with two people.  It's pretty fun going out there and playing with her.   
 Q.  In first half of the course you fell behind a few strokes.  How did you fight back from there?  
MINJEE LEE: Well, yeah, on the third hole I made triple, so after that I just sort of the climbed my way back up to even.  From there, I tried to make as many birdies as I could.   
Yeah, pretty solid all round I think today.   
 Q.  Talk about this course.  What challenges did you find playing on this golf course?  
MINJEE LEE: Definitely the greens, especially because they're poana and we've been playing pretty late in the afternoon.   
Yeah, a little bit bumpy and harder to read, I think.  I think that's been the main thing.   
 Q.  Then last question:  What do you have to do tomorrow to not only stay on top of the leaderboard, but take the entire tournament?  
MINJEE LEE: You know, I think I'm just going to go out there and go have fun, play my own game.  You can't really control anybody else's.  Just go out there and hit as many good shots as I can and make as many putts as I can.   
 Q.  (In progress.)  
MINJEE LEE: My second shot, I mean, my line was a little bit left to right, but I thought it was just going to carry the tree.  Probably hit a little bit skinny and sort of went over the highest part, so caught a little bit.   
Yeah, just hit the tree and came straight down.  Then I probably had like 50 yards, 15 meters.  I hit my wedge and it just carried a little bit too long.  I mean, I was like right up against the hazard line and the little bush there, so I sort of duffed my chip, and then I putted and missed a short one coming back, so that was my...   
 Q.  It was a triple, but then you bounced back.  
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, I mean, I felt like I was really hitting it well and playing pretty solid, even I guess to that point, so I just sort of tried to forget about it.  What can you do that early in the round?   
Yeah, just try to get it back as much as I could and try and stay in the lead.  Yeah, I mean, pretty much what I said before:  try and hit as many good shots as I could out there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT