LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 19, 2019
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How do you feel about your round?  
MINJEE LEE: It was pretty steady.  I mean, I didn't really have -- didn't make any birdies.  I just made one eagle, chip-in eagle.   
 Q.  It was awesome.  
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, that was awesome.  I mean, it was pretty hard out there.  The wind was really gusty and the, what do you call it, the greens were -- the pin placements were pretty hard for the wind direction we had, I think.   
I didn't have -- I had a few birdie chances that I could have made but I didn't make them, so, yeah, ended up having nine pars in a row on the back nine.  It's better than bogeys, so...   
 Q.  Yeah, for sure.  You're in a really good spot going into tomorrow.  Not sure how the wind is gonna play tomorrow, but what are your thoughts strategy-wise?  
MINJEE LEE: If it's like this, I think if you're putting --  you've got to put yourself in play first, put it on the fairway and hit the greens, yeah, have a look at birdie.   
Yeah, I think just play one shot at a time and try and calculate the wind as best as possible if it's this windy.   
 Q.  Do you feel good about your club selection today?  
MINJEE LEE: I think a few I hit it too long, like I clubbed too much.  Yeah, maybe tomorrow I can adjust and hopefully improve on that.   
 Q.  What are you focusing on?  What's the end goal for tomorrow?  
MINJEE LEE: Well, I think I'm maybe a few behind, maybe one behind the leaders, so I guess I'm in a position to be pretty aggressive.  Hopefully I can play well.  I mean, at the end of the day I just want to go out there and feel like I tried my best.  That's pretty much my goal.   
Obviously be nice to be able to hold this trophy at the end of the day.   
 Q.  Do you now how to hula?  
MINJEE LEE: I have done it once, so I guess I'm not at my worst.   
 Q.  More experienced than most.  
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, a little bit.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT