ANA INSPIRATION
April 2, 2019
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We are here with our last press conference of the day.  We have for you world No. 3, Minjee Lee of Australia.  Minjee is playing in her sixth ANA Inspiration with a best finish of a tie for third in 2017.  Minjee, you're playing tremendously well of late.  Already have two runner-up finishes in Thailand and Singapore.  You had a great 2018.  What has led to this recent rise in what has already been some pretty good play, but even better play out of you?   
MINJEE LEE: I think I'm just a little bit more mature, more settled down on the tour.  I know what I'm doing in terms of I have my routine.  Just a little bit more familiar with the places I'm going and obviously the courses as well.   
I think just all in all a little bit more consistent in every part of my game.  I think that's what's really helping me with the results.   
THE MODERATOR: Is some of that just the comfort of being several years into your career now?   
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, definitely.  This is my fifth year on tour now so I'm a little more settled, as I said before.  I just know what I'm doing a little bit better.   
THE MODERATOR: Your great play has not gone unnoticed.  Late in 2018 you won the Greg Norman Medal given to the best male or female player in Australia.  You were the first woman to win that medal.  What an honor was it to have your name added to that list?   
MINJEE LEE: It's just such a special thing, such a great honor for me, especially as the first female to be able to be the recipient of the award.  I am up against a lot of great names and great players.   
Yeah, it was just really special for me for golf in Australia and obviously women's golf in Australia as well.  Just really special.   
THE MODERATOR: You said you played nine holes.  Played the back nine so far.  We're hearing it's green, lush, a little more narrow.  What are your takeaways of the golf course as we head into the week?   
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, I think it's going to be a great tournament.  The course is looking great.  The rough is very lush.  It's the very, very green and pretty out there.  Some of the holes are a little bit longer, I think.  They probably put the tees back on a couple holes.   
Yeah, the greens are running nice as always.  It was a little windy when I played this afternoon.  I think it might play a little bit differently during the week.   
Yeah, it's going to be a great week.   
THE MODERATOR: Wouldn't be a week in Pal Desert without wind, right?   
MINJEE LEE: That's right.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  When you come here do you try and think of this as just another golf tournament, or do you understand that, Oh, my gosh, this is a major and there is a lake out there and the water is cold and I might have to jump in it?  
MINJEE LEE: Definitely pretty excited to be here.  I mean, it's the first major of the year.  I think for myself I think of it as another event.  I'm just coming to play my best and try my best.   
So, yeah, just try and go out there and have some fun.   
 Q.  Do you feel this golf course, even with some of the little changes out there, is a golf course that suits your game, that you can win on?  
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, I'm usually pretty strong in my ball striking, so I definitely think you have to drive it really well.  Obviously if the putter is hot it'll be nice.   
You definitely need to hit the fairways first and the greens.  I think that's really important.   
 Q.  Does it seem like the rough a little thicker out there this year?  
MINJEE LEE: I think definitely around the greens it's a little bit thicker.  Off the fairways I think it's pretty similar to the other years we played it.   
 Q.  Following up the course setup, just curious on that.  Does it seem more favorable to long hitters or less favorable?  
MINJEE LEE: Definitely favorable to the longer hitters.  I think probably the little bit longer hitters than I am can probably bomb it over the bunkers and probably over some of the cuts of the cuff, so definitely more favorable I think.   
 Q.  Following that up, does the setup take the driver out of the hands any more of the longer players, or not really?  
MINJEE LEE: No.  I think they can definitely bomb drive pretty much almost every hole here.   
THE MODERATOR: Further questions for Minjee?   
 Q.  Karrie is playing a more limited schedule, but she's out here now.  You saw her in Australia.  Do you come to appreciate her even more that she's out here less?  
MINJEE LEE: I think she'll always be appreciated.  I appreciated her when she was playing a fuller schedule, and obviously I will always appreciate seeing her.   
It's nice to see her out here and there.  I know she's playing a little less now, but I don't know.  It's just nice to see familiar faces.  I've known her for a long time so it's nice.   
THE MODERATOR: I know she was certainly one of your great role models when you were growing up.  Along with Karrie, who did you look up to as a junior golfer and still today?   
MINJEE LEE: I mean, I watched a lot of Yani and Lorena when Lorena was still playing and obviously Yani was still playing out here.  I did watch a lot of their golf.  I think that was sort of my age when I was sort of watching it on TV.   
Maybe a little bit of Annika when she was finishing up.  Obviously Webby, yeah.   
THE MODERATOR: It was a little surreal then, I'm sure, when you first started to be out there with Yani and Karrie and those faces that you watched?   
MINJEE LEE: Oh, yeah.  It was super cool.  It's super cool now.  If I'm playing with Webby I'm like, Oh, I'm playing with Webby.  Can you believe it?  I've watched her on TV, and being able to go do the U.S. Opens with her and watch her play, it's just really cool.   
THE MODERATOR: Anything further for Minjee?  All right.  Thank you so much.  You have a great week.   
MINJEE LEE: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT