HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
March 1, 2019
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Good day out there.  Scores weren't that low.
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, it was okay.  I probably --  the two bogeys that I made on 10 and 11, it probably killed my momentum a little bit.
I don't know, I kept scrambling at the end, but I played pretty solid before my two bogeys.  I could take some positives out of that and try and have a good day tomorrow.
Q. Before the bogeys, what do you feel like worked well for you?
MINJEE LEE: Well, I haven't been hitting my driver that, that straight, so I think I just judged a couple of the shots from the rough really well, and I could obviously save par in those circumstances, but other than that, I've been -- I've been striking it pretty solid with my irons.  Well, I probably had a couple loose shots by the -- on the back nine.  I've been putting pretty solid, too, but obviously if you don't give yourself chances for birdie, then it will be a little tougher.
But when I do, I do make a good run at it.
Q. A lot of the other players are saying how fast the greens were rolling.
MINJEE LEE: I think the greens were a little bit slow today.  Slower than yesterday, so I think my pace was a little bit -- a little bit off, but I think I could just adjust after today.
So new day tomorrow.
Q. How would you compare today's pin locations to yesterday's?
MINJEE LEE: I think they were pretty similar but I think sometimes the wind got up a little bit so it was a little gustier.  Especially on 17 is was straight downwind and the pin was only four yards on the green, so obviously that's a tough pin.
There was a couple tough pins here and there but overall I think it's just a good test of golf.
Q. Is No. 3 in the world the highest ranking you've reached in your pro career?
MINJEE LEE: Mm-hmm.
Q. When you saw that, what were your initial reactions?
MINJEE LEE: To be honest, I didn't really expect my World Ranking to really change because obviously last year I had the same result and I was like, oh, it's probably going to be similar.
But it did change and that was pretty cool.  I was like, whoa, win, win.  It was really nice to see sort of all my hard work has been paying off.
Yeah, just I think it's a reward to myself when I see things change.
Q. Huge testament to how hard you've worked, and you've come so close in so many different events last year, plus you had the win, too.  But I know that you mentioned that your goals are more statistical and then the World Ranking will come.  What's something that you're working on this week, specifically?
MINJEE LEE: This week, well, like statistically-wise.
Q. Or what's something you'll walk away with, and be like, okay, I feel good about this because I achieved this.
MINJEE LEE: Well, that's hard because like when I play, I usually don't think about it.
So like obviously when I reflect after I -- after the tournament, I sort of look at -- I have like a stat program, so I just put my stats in there, and then it sort of tells me where I can get better at it and things like that.
But just after I play, when I think about what I need to work on, usually that's how I reflect on sort of what I need to work on.
So like right now, if like my iron shots were not as good or my lengths are a little off, I'll try to work on that the following week.  I pretty much go as I play, I guess.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT