HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
February 27, 2019
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KRISTEN YOON: Welcome back to the media centre here at Sentosa Golf Club for the 2019 HSBC Women's World Championship.  I am here with Minjee Lee, No. 3 in the world.  You jumped four spots on the Rolex Rankings after your runner-up finish in Thailand.
You typically start off-season pretty well.  How have you managed to stay in top form and travelling and starting the season off?
MINJEE LEE: Obviously we come off maybe like a seven-week, eight-week period where we train and take some time off and try and get back into golfing, I guess tournament play shape.
So I guess we're pretty fresh coming off that break, and I mean, the first couple of events I played I was probably a little rusty and last week I played much better than what I think was much better.
So yeah, I think since we're fresh, we should be ready to go and ready to travel.
KRISTEN YOON: Can you talk to us about your experience, past experiences in Singapore, and how do you like being here and playing at Sentosa Golf Club?
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, I've been here the past, I think four years now.  Yeah, I love the golf course.  I know it's changed.  We were at the other course the first couple years that I played, and the course is always in really amazing condition.  We always play really fast greens, firm fairways.
It hasn't really been that soft, not from my past experiences here, and it's always a great test of golf, so I really like coming back here.
KRISTEN YOON: How have you been able to enjoy your time-out side of the golf course here?
MINJEE LEE: Well, we stay right next to a mall, so there's a lot of shopping there and a lot of places to go and look around, and obviously we stay in the city.
So it's really close to a lot of attractions, so I've been -- over the past four years, I've been around, yeah, and usually it's too hot to do anything after I play, so I just go back in my room.
But yeah, when I have time, I like to go look around.
Q. Is it a goal to be No. 1 again?
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, I think definitely, because I didn't put that as my goal because obviously if you -- I mean, it's in the back of my mind, but I have like more statistical goals that I like to meet, and in meeting those, I think it will eventually get me to world No. 1.
So I don't really think like, oh, my God, I have to get to world No. 1 like next week.  I think that's too much pressure on myself.  So I just like to take every week as it comes and try and do my best every week.
Q. What are you most happiest about --
MINJEE LEE: What am I most happiest about?  Probably my maturity level.  I really know what I need for myself now and what works best for me.  I think in figuring that out a little bit, I got to settle myself down a little bit more on Tour and I sort of know where I stand and what I need to improve on to try to make it to world No. 1.
Q. Can you talk us through the sibling rivalry dynamic with your brother?
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, he's very competitive.  Yeah, he wants to beat me and he's -- we don't really get to play too much, but if we do, we always have a bet on it, and obviously bragging rights.
So no, it's just really fun to be around him.  He's really confident and he's really sociable and he's really fun to be around.  I really enjoy that, when I get the time.
Q. Who normally wins and where do you play?
MINJEE LEE: Well, we've played one match at Royal Fremantle and another match at another golf course and we're 1-1.  He hits it really long, so he might get me now, but, who knows.
Q. Your caddie seems to be a good fit for you --
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, I've worked with him for just over a year now.  We had a great year last year, and I think we're both really laid back.  Personality-wise, we really get along, and obviously on the golf course, I try to be as simple as possible.  I think in that sense, I think we're both on the same page.
KRISTEN YOON: Can you talk to us about your goals here this week in Singapore?
MINJEE LEE: Well, I'm coming off a pretty good week last week.  So I'll probably just try to take the momentum from last week into this week.  I'm hitting it pretty solid and putting it pretty solid, so hopefully top ten, top five, yeah.
KRISTEN YOON: Thanks, Minjee, so much for your time.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT