HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 21, 2019
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great round.
MINJEE LEE: Uh-huh.
Q. I mean, an eagle, bunch of birdies, bogey-free.
MINJEE LEE: Yes, bogey-free today.
Q. Awesome.  How does it feel?
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, I played pretty solid coming -- I mean finishing off my round.  I started with six pars, so just pretty -- it a little bit slow starting out.
Yeah, I finished with three birdies on the last three holes on the back nine, and then I got a little bit better momentum going into the back nine.
Q. How were you able to handle the heat out there?
MINJEE LEE: I actually thought it was a little bit better than the other days, but once I came in here I was like, whoa, it's really hot.
Yeah, I just tried to drink a lot of water, stay hydrated, have a couple snacks here and there just to keep my energy levels up.
Q. Tell us about your downhill putts.  How do you take them on?  What's your actual technique?
MINJEE LEE: I just try to go like if there is look -- I will just be like hit it one foot and like try and get the break to, you know, slow down and into the hole.
But some of the putts, they're just really, really fast but like on like such big breaks, so it's really hard to judge - like my second putt on 18.  That was really fast but on like the side of the hill.
I think you just got to practice the roll and sort of trust that it's going to break back.
Q. How hard was 18?
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, it was like a Sunday pin on the first day.  Yeah, maybe they'll use it again on one of the days, but that's a tough pin.  I think the greens are running a little faster, like just -- because I was a little bit on the right side of that green.  Not down the bottom of the hill, but I wasn't on the left side so I couldn't really use -- I had to use a lot of that right-to-left slope coming up, so it was a little bit harder to judge.
I hit a good putt.  Ran a little bit by, but just went by the hole pretty hard.  Just what it is.  It's a tough pin placement.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT