TOTO JAPAN CLASSIC
November 3, 2018
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A stunning display of golf, you must be really happy with your round today?
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, I had no bogeys today.  Yeah, obviously a no-bogey round is always a solid round.  I got to roll in some nice putts out there, so it's nice to see the ball go in the hole.
Q. You've had nine top 5s this season so far.  What's been the key to your consistency in 2018?
MINJEE LEE: I think a bit of everything.  I'm probably hitting more fairways and giving myself more opportunities to hit it closer to the pin, and I think my putting has definitely improved this year.  Overall it just comes down to everything being a little bit better.
Q. What is it about this golf course in particular that seems to suit your eye so much?
MINJEE LEE: I definitely think it's a second-shot golf course.  I think if you are hitting it well, you're going to have a lots of looks at birdies out here.  Yeah, a couple of the par 5s are reachable in two and thereabouts, and you can just take advantage of that.
Q. Going into tomorrow, what's your game plan?  You've got a little bit of a lead, but how are you feeling into the final day?
MINJEE LEE: Out here, I think you can make a lot of birdies.  So I think I'm just going to play my game and just do whatever is in my control and just try and be -- just play smart and aggressive at the same time.
Q. You had eight birdies today.  How do you feel?
MINJEE LEE: I feel really good.  Obviously I had no bogeys today and just eight birdies.  I holed quite a few putts today, so it was nice to see them all go in.
Q. Which hole was the best hole?
MINJEE LEE: Well, I hit my 3-wood really close on the 17th hole but I didn't make my putt for eagle.  But I still think it was lucky and sort of a good shot.  So probably that was a good hole.
Q. You are right now the tournament leader.  What is the key point you could play very well?
MINJEE LEE: Well, I think because I can hit the fairways, so I can hit my shots, I guess like on the green, obviously have a chance to hit it close to the pins.  I think I'm just giving myself a lot of opportunities for birdies and rolling some of them in.
Q. What is your goal for the final round?  Do you have a message for tomorrow?
MINJEE LEE: Well, I think I always go out there and try my best.  Just take it one shot at a time and try and do everything that's in my control.  I just want to go out there and have fun, and obviously put on a good show for the fans.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT