UL INTERNATIONAL CROWN
October 2, 2018
Katherine Kirk
Su Oh
Sarah Jane Smith
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHRISTINE LANCE: I'm going to start with you, Katherine.  Australia is playing in their third Crown; maybe looking for some better results having not played necessarily as well as you would have liked over the first two showings.   
How are you feeling coming into this year?  Maybe are you raring to get some stronger play out there?   
KATHERINE KIRK: We're very much looking forward to kind of redeeming ourselves this year.  Obviously the first two we haven't got off to the best of starts.  Yeah, got some ground to cover.  I think this year though we feel really confident with our team.  Feel happy with our preparation.  I think it's going to be a good week for us.   
In the press conference in Chicago at the UL headquarters we joked about playing under the radar.  We don't mind that position.  Yeah, certainly feel good at the start of the week.   
CHRISTINE LANCE: Minjee, you've played in the first two of these, both held in the States.  Now we're here in Korea.  What are you expecting the changes to be?  What are you hearing or expecting to see out on the golf course over the next few days?   
MINJEE LEE: The fans are probably going to be roaring out there.  That's what I hear.  I've heard rumors that all the online sales were sold out very, very long time ago.   
Yeah, I mean, we're really looking forward to all the fans and just the atmosphere.  I think it's going to be great.  Obviously the golf course, the layout is really pretty good for match play.  Really looking forward to that, too.   
CHRISTINE LANCE: Sarah Jane, you're making your debut this week.  You've had a couple really great tournaments this year that really propelled you onto this team.   
What does it mean to be playing in your first Crown and be representing Team Australia?   
SARAH JANE SMITH: It's something that I really wanted for a long time.  I've been in the fifth spot for the first two events, so was really disappointing to miss out; especially Australians love representing their country, so it's something that I really wanted.   
It was really close again this year.  I think I was in the fifth spot with a few -- a month or two before the teams were selected.  I'm honored to be a part of this team, and looking forward to representing Australia with these girls.   
CHRISTINE LANCE: And Su, I'll throw one down to you.  The four of you are the team captains.  The four of you plan everything out for your team.  What have the team dynamics been like as you plan how to attack the four days of competition?  Group chats?  Team meetings?  Anything you guys did to figure things out?   
SU OH: Yeah, well, we obviously have a really good team dynamic.  We all know each other really well.  It's not like getting to know each other.  We all play out on the LPGA, so we see each other week to week.   
I think a lot of us are in different spots leading up to the event after Evian, but still kept in touch on the group chat.  It's a secret what we were talking about, but a lot have important stuff.   
But, yeah, we obviously have really good communication.  We all get along.  Yeah, the team dynamic has been great the whole week.  Yeah.   
CHRISTINE LANCE: Open it up for questions.   
 Q.  Just a question to all of you.  We asked the English girls how they saw the first match against you in terms of perhaps an Ashes cricket contest.  Unfortunately we got rather blank stares.  They're not cricket fans.  How do you girls see it?  
KATHERINE KIRK: That's actually the first time I heard that reference.  Yeah, for golf fans and cricket fans I'm sure they're drawing some similarities to our first match.  I was kidding around out there.  Yeah, we're playing against the motherland.  I think, yeah, it'll be fun.  Obviously we know all the girls.   
We're very competitive against any country, but I think there is also a little bit maybe rivalry between commonwealth countries.  Yeah, looking to get some points early.  That's a bit cheeky.   
 Q.  I want to ask Katherine and Minjee this since you guys have played at most of these.  If the Ryder Cup last week taught us anything, it's that embracing the underdog role, whether or not you are the underdog, allows you to be a little bit more free wheeling.  Do you feel as though you're going to be able to go out and just freewheel it?  Is the underdog role something you would embrace?  
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, I mean, definitely it's in Korea and the Korean team probably has the most pressure.  Either way, we'll just go out there and play our best and we'll see how it goes.   
Yeah, definitely just going to play as free as we want.  Yeah, just I guess embrace whatever comes our way.   
KATHERINE KIRK: Obviously if you look at world rankings the South Korean team is so far ahead of us.  We know that anything can happen in match play.  Certainly all four of us have played a lot of match play growing up.   
World rankings, team rankings aside, doesn't really mean much going in.  We know that we've got as good as chance as any team.  Granted, the pressure is on the South Koreans and the crowds will be pulling for them harder than we've ever seen, but I think we're up to the challenge.  Certainly don't mind the underdog role.  I don't think it's ever hurt anyone.   
 Q.  Sarah, the Europeans and Americans have kind of kept it to themselves, team golf, in professional golf.  The Presidents Cup has not quite worked in the men's game.  How exciting has it been that this tournament has grown quite swiftly?  
SARAH JANE SMITH: I mean, it's fantastic.  I think for us growing up we played a lot of representative golf, and all of a sudden we turned professional and then there was nothing for us to play in anymore.  Now we have the Olympics obviously, but for Australians this is our only opportunity to play as a team.   
I think we as a country really revel in doing that, and I think that moving it here to Korea and getting an international feel to the event has made it even more special.   
I think this would be a really good one for us to have a good week, so...   
 Q.  Katherine, often new events take a little time, especially when the format is a bit unusual.  Players have embrace the ethos of the event.  Is that how it's felt from your side?  
KATHERINE KIRK: I think the best part about it is the energy amongst the team.  For us, like Sara Jane said, we grew up playing a lot of team and representative golf.   
As great as golf is playing by yourself, there is just that much more excitement and energy when you have teammates and you're working towards this common goal.  I think that's the part of it that gets us going.   
Obviously it's an honor to represent your country.  We know that we've got 24 million back home -- maybe they don't all follow golf -- but as many that do are cheering us on.   
I would say I can't speak for the other players from the other countries, but certainly they're enjoying the fact that they're representing their country.  There is a lot of camaraderie on tour even though it is an individual sport.   
The fact that we get a team event, yeah, we're getting a whole 'nother level of excitement.   
 Q.  (Through translation.)  My question goes to Minjee Lee.  You mentioned that this golf course is good, its layout is good for match play.  Can you be a little bit more specific?  
MINJEE LEE: There is a lot of holes obviously that you can score, but there is a mixture of -- obviously the 14th hole you can drive it, so it's drivable.  There is a mixture of long and short holes and mid-holes, so you never know where you're going to make mistakes.   
And obviously there is holes that you can really take advantage of and make birdies.  So you can go either way.  It'll be exciting.   
 Q.  Su, I'm curious about the effect of Karrie Webb on the team, the influence she's had in women's golf.  What has Karrie Web meant to you in your career?  
SU OH: Yeah, obviously Karrie has been great.  Just like a big sister to us on the tour.  For me anyway.  I'm sure for everybody really.  Growing up we, Minjee and I, were a part of the Karrie Webb Scholarship, which is like funding as well as being able to come to the U.S. Open and spend the week with her, like stay with her and go to the course with her and walk inside the ropes.   
So that was my first experience of the U.S. Open, which is really the pinnacle of women's golf.  It was an eye opener and just a great experience.  I know that she'll be watching on TV and on the phone; I'm sure we'll get some messages from Karrie.   
So, yeah, just there when we need and just a great support.  Great role model, too.   
CHRISTINE LANCE: Thank you so much, ladies.  Enjoy your week were see you on Thursday.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT