CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
September 1, 2018
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You had some nice par saves, actually two, chipping from back of the green on 7 and 16.  
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, but they were tough.  They were tough.  Well, 16 is a par-3, right?  Yeah, 16, it just -- I don't know, I thought I hit a really nice shot, but maybe it just carried a little bit long.  I was right in between clubs almost most of the day, so I thought I did pretty good considering, and I hit that -- that 2 felt really, really good actually.   
 Q.  7, you were over there by the bushes behind the green --  
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, well, I didn't have a club -- I sort of took out my 4-iron, and I put my hybrid in, so I had my 5-wood, as well, so that was working for the last two days, and today I just ran into that in between clubs.  4-iron would have been perfect, but I didn't have it, and I tried to hit like -- just like a soft hybrid, and it ended up carrying almost to the pin.  So I think I just got lucky that it didn't roll too far in.   
 Q.  You take the lead at 10 and 11, get birdies.  How are you feeling at that point?  
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, good.  I just felt normal.  Just tried to play my game.  I felt like I played pretty solid all day.  Probably had one bad drive on 17 that really cost me my bogey.   
 Q.  Were you on a root kind of by the tree --  
MINJEE LEE: I was scared I was going to hit the root right in front of me, so I only had probably half a foot, so I just hit it out.   
 Q.  There really wasn't anything else you could do?  
MINJEE LEE: If I wanted to hook it around, I probably could have, but that roof probably would have got in the way, so I just hit it out.   
 Q.  How about being paired again tomorrow --  
MINJEE LEE: With Georgia?   
 Q.  You've played together before she says.  
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, well, I don't know if I've played with her when I was an am, but I definitely played with her during the UL.  Yeah, I mean, it's fun.  We're both the same age.  We sort of -- we're friends, so yeah, it's good to have a good battle out there.   
 Q.  Being two behind right now, do you want to -- do you feel like you need to come out right away and do something?  
MINJEE LEE: It would be nice to have a fast start, but like I said before, I don't know where the pin placements are going to be, and if they're tucked, they're really hard to get to, and especially if you're not in the fairway, then you really have to take your medicine and just play to the middle of the green.  I think it just depends.  There's a lot of opportunities out here, so whenever I get a chance, I'll try and take advantage.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT