RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 3, 2018
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Minjee, a little bit trickier out there today compared to yesterday?  
MINJEE LEE: Not really.  The greens were pretty soft in the morning.  There was not much wind, so yeah, it was pretty scorable conditions today, yeah.   
 Q.  How do you reflect on the run?  You are still very well placed heading into the weekend.  
MINJEE LEE: Yeah.  I had a little hiccup on 16 and 17, but yeah, overall -- I mean before that I was playing pretty well.  So yeah, it was okay.   
 Q.  It proved it yesterday and today it looks like it's going to be the case again.  It's such a tough last few holes, isn't it?  
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, it is, but you just gotta play smart, and I mean I didn't hit the right shots, so that's what I got penalized for.   
 Q.  You go into the weekend, like I say, well placed.  How do you feel you will be placed when today is done and dusted?  What do you think the scoring is going to be like as the day goes on, because the weather could deteriorate.  
MINJEE LEE: Well, I think if the wind doesn't pick up too much, then I think the scores will be pretty similar to yesterday.  But I don't know.  I guess it all depends on the weather, like you said.   
 Q.  Well done today.  
MINJEE LEE: Thank you.   
 Q.  Minjee, played early turning out well, isn't it?  
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, it did.  I mean we didn't really get much wind on both of the rounds, so yep.   
 Q.  You need some luck in this competition, too, with the draw, don't you?  
MINJEE LEE: I guess so.  I guess every tournament is the same.  It's like that.   
 Q.  More so this week because (indiscernible)?  
MINJEE LEE: Yeah.  I mean in that sense, yes.  I think I got pretty good times, so yeah, I got lucky with that.   
 Q.  You're position after 16 holes, 15 holes, but you should be pleased with your standing right now.  
MINJEE LEE: Yeah.  I think even though I had two bad holes today, I am not out of the competition.  So right now, I think I'm in a pretty good spot, and yeah.   
 Q.  What's going to be the key this weekend?  
MINJEE LEE: I'm putting well, and I've been hitting the ball pretty solid last week and also this week.  So yeah, I think just the right balance of that and then smart play, I think, course management.   
 Q.  Do you still spend time with Mike?  
MINJEE LEE: I never did.   
 Q.  You're obviously focusing on your own game.  Catriona at 48 years old, still very competitive.  What do you think of that?  
MINJEE LEE: Yeah.  It's awesome to play with her.  I think she won her last group ahead of.   
 Q.  Yeah, 11 weeks after giving birth.  
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, that's pretty cool.  I mean I guess to come back here and to play again, I think she had great memories and just, yeah, no, it's awesome.   
 Q.  Do you remember what you were doing golfing wise in 2009?  
MINJEE LEE: How old was I?  Like --   
 Q.  13.  
MINJEE LEE: 13 or something?  I was probably just coming overseas to play in like the U.S. Am and the U.S. Girls.  That's what I was doing.   
 Q.  Was your golfing inspiration back then?  
MINJEE LEE: Webby has always been pretty involved in junior golf and girls' golf in Australia.   
 Q.  Any particular courses in Australia been firm and fast that are good preparation for links golf?  
MINJEE LEE: Probably not really where I live.  Like in Perth we don't really have too many sort of links-style golf courses.  But I did play --   
 Q.  You played sandbelt in Melbourne?  
MINJEE LEE: Yeah.  A couple of -- I mean actually pretty much every event was on the sandbelt.  So I had that kind of experience.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT