HUGEL-JTBC LA OPEN
April 21, 2018
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Minjee, awesome round.  Awesome turnaround from yesterday.  A little difficult out there.  What worked well today?
MINJEE LEE: I birdied the 1st hole and then I had a whole lot of pars until that par-5.  So, yeah, I just stayed pretty patient out there.
Obviously it's not that easy to get it too close to the pins.  Yeah, I mean, I finished really well.  I think I went eagle, birdie, par, birdie to finish.
So, yeah, I just stayed patient out there and just did everything in my control pretty much.
Q. Talk about that eagle on 15.
MINJEE LEE: I think I had 155 meters to the pin; it was slightly right to left, so I held up a little 6-iron.  It just bounced before the pin I think about maybe a meter, and then just stopped like a foot before the hole.
Yeah, it was just a tap-in eagle.
Q. That's awesome.
MINJEE LEE: It was nice, yeah.
Q. What do you think was the difference from yesterday's round to today's round?
MINJEE LEE: I think yesterday I started with a couple birdies and then I made a double early in my round.  I think it sort of the stopped my momentum a little bit.
Yeah, I started off the back nine yesterday, so it was a little bit of a different -- I guess it was just a little bit different going into the back nine.
Q. Yeah.  How have you been enjoying your time in L.A.?  Are you looking forward to coming back?
MINJEE LEE: Oh, definitely.  I love L.A.  We're right next to Koreatown; so good.
But I actually wasn't here early in the week.  I got her Tuesday night because I had to do something in Japan.  Yeah, I did a quick trip and had a really quick turnaround playing this event.
Yeah, I mean, I guess go and rest today.
Q. Any plans after today?
MINJEE LEE: No.  I'm just going to go out and have dinner and then probably sleep.
Q. Yeah.  Good idea.  Can you talk about how meaningful it is to be able to play for your country at UL International Crown?  You're in contention to make the team.  What's that like for you?
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, that's pretty exciting.  Australia made the team the last two times they played the UL International Crown, so I've sort of had the experience of playing in it.
It's a really -- I mean, it's a really great concept and a different format and everybody enjoys playing in it.  I think we're in pretty good shape to make the team this year.  If we make it and we're playing, I think it's just going to be great fun.  Obviously playing against other countries and being able to represent your own country is pretty cool.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT