ANA INSPIRATION
March 31, 2018
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 74, 71, 64, where did that round come from today?
MINJEE LEE: Actually, the first two days I was hitting it really well, but I just didn't make any putts.  Yeah, I just made a couple.  I mean, I started with two birdies today, so I started off nice, and then just kind of holed a couple through the middle and just kept going from there, so, yeah.
Q. So it was about 17, I think, you chipped in from the bunker on 17?
MINJEE LEE: Yes.
Q. Can you tell us about that?
MINJEE LEE: Oh, I hit my 6-iron off the tee, and it went into the bunker, so, yeah, it wasn't too tough of a shot.  It just needed to land on the hill, and it would have just trickled down on the hole.  So, yeah, I just hit it on the top, and it just did exactly what I thought it would do.
Q. We heard the crowd from where we were standing.  They went nuts with that shot.  What was the crowd support like for you today?
MINJEE LEE: It was good.  I have a couple of my housings from other states out here as well, and my parents are both here.  It's nice to have people who I actually know following me around.
Q. What stood out about your round today?
MINJEE LEE: I've been striking it pretty well.  So I've been solid in my iron shots.  I just holed a couple more putts today, and just pretty much kept it out of the rough.
Q. The overall test here, I'm sure you wouldn't say it's easy, but does it reward you when you're on more so?
MINJEE LEE: Oh, yeah, definitely.  Obviously, if you miss it a little bit off the fairways, then it's pretty tough to get to the greens with how thick the rough is right now.  Yeah, obviously, if you're on the fairway, you have a better chance of stopping it on the green.
Today I thought the greens weren't super firm because obviously I played in the morning.  Yeah, I could hit my numbers pretty well.
Q. We don't know where things will end up with the leaders today, they haven't teed off yet, but probably safe to say you won't play as early in the morning tomorrow.  What is your game plan maybe when the greens are a little more firm?
MINJEE LEE: I mean, just take into consideration that it might roll out a couple yards more.  So, yeah, maybe just hit a little bit shorter.  Obviously the pins at the front you don't want to be short, so just little things like that.
Q. From your experience, when a player goes out on a Saturday and posts a low number, if you're in contention, does that say anything to you about the way the course is playing?
MINJEE LEE: I'm not really sure what you mean.
Q. Let's say you were going out in the afternoon and a player posted 64 in the morning, do you think that would affect the way you would approach the day?
MINJEE LEE: Oh.  No, I don't think so.  Personally, no, for me.  You can't control what other people are doing, so you just go out there and do your best.  I think that's pretty much all you can do.
Q. Does posting a round like this on a Saturday and having the rest of the day to practice or rest, does that give you even more confidence going into the final round?
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, coming off a good day, you're always going to have confidence going into the next round.  So, yeah.  I mean, I'm just going to go and do whatever I want now.
Q. What are you going to do?
MINJEE LEE: I'm probably just going to go back and chill with my housing, maybe go for a swim.  But the sun has kind of gone away, but it's still pretty hot out.
Q. You're a proven player, but what do you think of your own major championship record?  Is that something that's becoming more serious to you now, you're trying to win one?
MINJEE LEE: I mean, everybody wants to perform well in a major.  I mean, I probably haven't quite performed as well as I wanted to over the past couple years in the majors.  But, yeah, I'm always getting experience from all the tournaments that I've played.  But, yeah, everybody wants to perform well, so I'm definitely trying to peak.
Q. The people following you this week, is that a regular thing or is that kind of special for this week?
MINJEE LEE: I think, well, obviously the housing that I'm staying here comes out every time, but more people came out this year maybe because of spring break.  I don't know.  I think they're overtired though, so I'm not sure.  They just sort of come on trips whenever they want to.
So, yeah, it wasn't a surprise.  They already told me they were going to come out, so it's nice to have them.
Q. They're just from here or other places?
MINJEE LEE: No, couple from Dallas and L.A.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT