U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
July 16, 2017
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So that was very nice to follow up a 77 with a 66.  How did you do it?
MINJEE LEE: I just wanted to have a good day to finish.  I hit it better.  I hit more fairways and I hit more greens.  Obviously gave myself a couple more opportunities to make birdies.
Q. Did you hit it close or did you have putts of length?
MINJEE LEE: All my birdies were quite close.
Q. Was the course a little more gettable today, did you feel, from yesterday?
MINJEE LEE: I think the wind is not as strong.  Well, when I played it wasn't as strong.  It was a little more accessible.  I think a couple of the pins were at the front.  A couple of the par-3s, the pins were at the front.  You could get them a little bit -- have more accessibility to them.
Q. Was there a point in the day where you felt like I can probably go low?  Did you start feeling it somehow?
MINJEE LEE: Not really.  I mean, I had 2-under the front nine and then I bogeyed 10.  After that I think I birdied 13 and 14.  After that I was like I'm playing pretty good.  So yeah, just finished with a birdie on 18, so that was a good finish.
Q. How much does that improve your outlook as to the entire week?
MINJEE LEE: Well, I didn't have a very good day yesterday.  So it's 100 percent better.  I mean, overall I had a pretty good week.  We take the 5-over out, it would have been a great week.
Q. Did you come out a little determined because of the 77 yesterday?
MINJEE LEE: No, not really.  I just didn't have that many -- I didn't have any expectations.  I just came out and thought let's just finish with a good day at a U.S. Open.
Q. Finish with tieing for the best round of the week is a good thing?
MINJEE LEE: Yeah.
Q. What do you expect for the rest of the year?
MINJEE LEE: I don't think I'm going to change anything.  Obviously, I am hitting it good and I am putting it good.  Yeah, just -- I mean, we have the British Open and the Evian, two majors left.  Hopefully I can have good results there.  I mean, I'm just going to do the same and hope for the best.
Q. As U.S. Women's Open golf courses go, how did you like this one?
MINJEE LEE: It was obviously different from last year and the year before.  I really liked it here.  I thought it was a little more generous off the tee.  This course sort of gives you risk and reward, I think.  You can be aggressive or it just gives you a lot of options for birdies.  Obviously if you miss one, it's an easy double or a triple.  It was really fun this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT