BLUE BAY LPGA
October 21, 2016
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Start with your assessment and evaluation today.
MINJEE LEE: I think I had a pretty solid round today.  I had 3-under the first nine, so I was happy with my start.  In the middle, I had a couple loose shots here and there, but I could get up-and-down.  Then I finished off with two birdies.  Overall, pretty solid round.
Q. With more days to go, two more rounds, what are your anticipations?
MINJEE LEE: Well, I'll just try to play my own game.  I don't really want to go in with too high of expectations because I don't know what the conditions are going to be like.  It could get windy.  Yeah, I just want to play my own game and do everything I can that's under my control.  That's what I've got to do.
Q. You are aware of the conditions of the fairways and so forth, but during this whole visit, this whole trip right now, after two rounds, did you feel that all of a sudden, everything has become so relatively easier than expected?
MINJEE LEE: Not in particular.  I mean, I think half of us came late.  I don't think it's easy out there.  It's still windy and the greens are really undulated so you have to be in the right places.  Yeah, it's not easy, and I don't find it that easy.
Q. Speaking of the conditions being windy, you're very good at handling windy situations, because the forecast is that the next two days, the wind could pick up.  Will that give you psychologically a slight edge that you might have a shot to get the title this time?
MINJEE LEE: I guess so.  I don't mind the wind, so I guess it's not a bad thing.  Yeah, I'll just play with whatever -- I'll just adjust to the wind.
Q. What made you keep momentum going to keep yourself focused and how did you actually manage to keep the momentum going?  How do you focus on yourself and keep the momentum going?
MINJEE LEE: I think keeping it very light and just having fun out there.  Because I mean, even if you hit a bad shot, like you just regroup and just be positive and just keep going, because if you get ahead of yourself, you could lose it, I guess.
Yeah, just keep it light and fun.  It's hot out there, so just keep hydrated and just keep it light I guess.
Q. Do your parents have any background in golf?
MINJEE LEE: My mom used to teach golf, so I guess that's how I got into it because she was always out at the driving range and I would follow her.  Same as my brother.  He actually started before I did.  I mean, my whole family plays, my brother competitively, so I guess it runs in the family.
Q. Was your mother ever professional?  Where would you rank her one out of ten?
MINJEE LEE: She got her license to teach.  She doesn't play.
Q. You're not being modest; your mother could perhaps be a professional.  In other words, out of ten, if you wanted to rank between one and ten --
MINJEE LEE: A handicap?  She doesn't play anymore but she used to be single figures.
Q. Will you be aggressive tomorrow or more reserved, on the reserved side?
MINJEE LEE: Just depends on the situation.  I'm not going to be any more or less aggressive or more or less conservative.  It just depends on where you are on the fairway and where the pin is.  I'll take it from there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT