MANULIFE LPGA CLASSIC
September 3, 2016
Minjee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great round today.  Do you feel like it was really scorable out there in these conditions?
MINJEE LEE: There was really not much wind today.  I don't know if it was forecasted that way or not, but yeah, I think it was very scorable today.  I mean the par-5s, obviously we have two that we can reach easily.  And yeah, a couple of short par-4s that we can really take advantage of, so yeah, I think it was really ideal conditions today.  Obviously the scores are all really good.
Q. 9 and 12, the two par-5s you're talking about, I think?
MINJEE LEE: One's on the front nine, one's on the back nine?
Q. Yeah.
MINJEE LEE: Yeah.  9.
Q. Eagled 12 today?
MINJEE LEE: Yeah, I eagled 12 today.
Q. When you get to those holes is that something you know you need to take advantage of or should at least?
MINJEE LEE: I mean like because we can drive it pretty far down there, so obviously we only have an iron into the green, so we definitely need to -- I guess we think we really need to take advantage of it.  So I think if you don't make birdie, you sort of lose a shot to the field sort of thing.  So yeah, I mean when we stand up on that tee, we definitely want to give it our best shot and crack at the green, crack at the ball, our second shot.
Q. You've won already this year, to know what it takes to win out here.  What do you think you need to do tomorrow to maybe get up to the top?
MINJEE LEE: I think you need a pretty fast start.  I mean it's always good to have birdies as soon as you start.  But other than that, I mean just play solid, just play your own game.  And I mean you can't really control what anyone else is doing, so as long as you are doing your 100 percent, I guess you'll have no regrets and you can't really be angry or sad about how you play.
Q. And what would it mean to get multiple wins on the year and join the ranks of those other players who have done that?
MINJEE LEE: I mean I feel like I've been really close, but just not quite there.  So I mean tomorrow I'll hopefully have a good round and I'm close, but yeah, it would just mean the world to me, and yeah, hopefully I'll have a good day.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT