MLB WORLD SERIES: NATIONALS VS ASTROS
October 26, 2019
Jose Urquidy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Houston - 8, Washington - 1
Q. Were you nervous at any point today?
JOSE URQUIDY: Yes, I was a little nervous, a little bit. But after the first inning I come out, I felt very more relaxed for play.
Q. Did you take a moment ever today to kind of look up in the crowd and kind of think to yourself that you were pitching in a World Series game?
JOSE URQUIDY: Yes, a couple of moments. A couple of moments I was thinking about, oh, my God, I'm World Series pitching. It's awesome.
Q. Last night you mentioned it was special to be getting the ball tonight because being from Mexico, it hasn't happened a lot in the World Series. And so you end up becoming the second starter to get a win in the World Series after Fernando Valenzuela, what does that mean to you?
JOSE URQUIDY: That means a lot for me. To be the second Mexican player to win a World Series game is something special. I think this is now history, right? I feel very special for that.
Q. (Question in Spanish.)
JOSE URQUIDY: Obviously very proud to have followed Fernando Valenzuela, obviously something historic, and something that I'm obviously very happy about, very happy to have followed him and to have done what I've done today.
Q. You had never pitched above A-ball before this year. So what were your realistic goals for yourself about the 2019 season? How have you improved as a pitcher or changed, if anything, since last year?
JOSE URQUIDY: My dream was pitching in the big leagues was my dream. I always imagined playing the World Series and winning the game for us. Something very big for me, big year for me. And I think I'm proud of myself.
Q. Anything you've improved or made better this year?
JOSE URQUIDY: Yeah, absolutely, I got a couple to fix up about my mechanic, and I want to work this offseason about that.
Q. (Question in Spanish.)
JOSE URQUIDY: Obviously Chirinos has been incredibly important to me and he's helped me out so much behind the plate. He's someone that I trust 100 percent with every pitch and he's been an incredible help to me and to all the pitchers.
Q. (Question in Spanish.)
JOSE URQUIDY: Obviously the defense across the board was incredible for me. The play that Correa made for me was -- got me excited. And the ones, the one support really helped tremendously, as well.
Q. Was your mother here tonight?
JOSE URQUIDY: Yes.
Q. What has she meant to your career and were you thinking about her when you took the mound tonight?
JOSE URQUIDY: Just very excited for be here watching me playing. I think this moment is very special for her and me, too. And I enjoy this time with her.
Q. What were your emotions like from the time AJ told you you were starting through the day today and up until you were pitching? Do you feel like you exceeded his and the team's expectations tonight going as well and as long as you did?
JOSE URQUIDY: Yes. When the manager come to me to talk about when I start the 4 game, I was really excited because I will start a game, because they wanted to go bullpen pitch a lot. And I was thinking I will start the next game. I was very excited for that moment.
Q. Have you heard any responses from any family or friends about your outing? If so, what was it? And if not, what do you expect the response to be?
JOSE URQUIDY: Yes, a lot of family was texting me and calling me about this game. There were messages in my phone now. But I know all my people are watching me now.
Q. What was your mother's name?
JOSE URQUIDY: Alma.
Q. A-l-m-a?
JOSE URQUIDY: Yeah.
Q. Also AJ mentioned earlier there was a game in the Minor Leagues this year where you gave up 14 hits and 11 runs, Pacific Coast League. But that was in August. Were you discouraged or worried after that game that you might not get back to the big leagues this year, was it a big letdown, how did you deal with that?
JOSE URQUIDY: I think I was a little crazy, a little ruined from the heat. But I try to get my focus. I know that was a crazy game. But was 100 percent good in that situation. As far as part of the game, good days and bad days.
Q. You look to be really excited when you got Soto swinging in the fourth on that fastball. What were your emotions just that entire at-bat knowing he's the guy that makes that lineup go?
JOSE URQUIDY: I was trying to put away the hitter. For me something very big because that hitter is very big right now, he's on fire. And it's taking something special for me. And it was very good.
Q. (Question in Spanish.)
JOSE URQUIDY: Obviously the last four years during the Minor Leagues were challenging. Obviously everyone knows the Minor Leagues is a difficult process. And then when I heard about the Tommy John, that was also obviously very challenging. But I always had the dream to play in the big leagues and I kept that dream in my mind throughout and fortunately it's played out well.
Q. (Question in Spanish.)
JOSE URQUIDY: My mom is someone that I talk to a lot and obviously she helped me out this morning. We had coffee. Just gave me some words of encouragement.
And Osuna has been someone that's also been a tremendous help and has helped me in terms of executing pitches, in terms of having my poise on the mound. And so he's been a very big help.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT