NCAA MEN'S 1ST & 2ND ROUNDS REGIONALS: GREENSBORO
March 18, 2009
Jamal Abu-Shamala
Damian Johnson
Tubby Smith
Lawrence Westbrook
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   AMY YAKOLA: We're joined by the Minnesota student athletes: Jamal Abu-Shamala. Damian Johnson, and Lawrence Westbrook. Questions, please. 

 Q. Can you just talk about the overall experience of the first NCAA Tournament for you guys? And just what it's been like leading up to this point? 
 LAWRENCE WESTBROOK: The experience has been kind of crazy, because I have a lot of family here and they're excited for me to play. And this is something that I've dreamed of since I was a little kid and wanted to play in the tournament. See all the teams that you see on TV. Just play under the big lights. So I think it's really exciting.
 DAMIAN JOHNSON: Yeah, it's definitely a great experience right now. I mean, our whole team, it's our first time being here. The guys are very excited. I mean, everyone dreamed of being here. Coach Smith has been really laid back right now, so I think everything's going well right now. 
 JAMAL ABU-SHAMALA: Yeah, just to go off what they were saying, it's just everyone's first time. It's really exciting to just see what the atmosphere's like. We're all really excited. And you know, it's kind of cool to be in the middle of the basketball, like the heartland. So to be here in North Carolina. 

 Q. You were over at Tubby Smith's alma mater today practicing. Can you give us a sense what it was like to be at High Point, and tonight, how is it different than any other night before a game? 
 LAWRENCE WESTBROOK: I think the first difference is that we came here on a Tuesday, so we have two days before the game. But I liked going to High Point. It was a really nice university. We got to go over some things that we didn't get to cover in Minneapolis, along with that we got extra shooting. So it was cool to see where coach played, and we met one of his former coaches. So I'm just taking everything in and enjoying it.
 DAMIAN JOHNSON: I mean, I think High Point was a really nice campus. They've got a lot of new buildings, and we got a chance to ride around a little bit and see a couple of things. 
 I think tonight, it may be a little different because a lot of guys may be a little nervous. I mean, this is the big dance. Our whole team's experiencing something new. I think guys focus will be a little different compared to other games like we had during the big 10 schedule.
 JAMAL ABU-SHAMALA: Yeah, it was kind of cool when we got there. They had a nice little set-up and reception for us. Had a Welcome Home, Tubby signs all over. And they had music playing. So it was kind of fun to see that. But then we had to get down to business and started preparing for Texas. You know, like they said, it was a very nice university, and they were very welcoming. 

 Q. I know when Coach Smith decided to come to Minnesota a couple years ago it caught a lot of the nation by surprise. I was wondering what your immediate reaction was when you found out Coach Smith was coming? And what specific things did he do to change the atmosphere around Minnesota and create a winning culture? 
 JAMAL ABU-SHAMALA: When we first found out, we were all kind of shocked. We were like one of the legends in the coaching business. He's really, he's won a National Championship that everyone tries to reach. You know, to have him come, the first thing that he changed was the mindset and attitude of the team. Really he wanted us to have a championship attitude, and just have faith and believe in each other that we can achieve big goals.
 DAMIAN JOHNSON: When I first found out I was in my room just getting out of class. And I walked in and put it on Sportscenter, and first thing I saw Tubby Smith to Minnesota. I was just in awe. You know what I mean? I called everyone and started saying we got a new coach. 
 And I was going kind of crazy, because at the time he was coming off a 9-22 season, worst season in school history. And Coach Smith came in and just wanted to implement a winning mindset. And I think a lot of guys caught on to it really quick. We won 11 more games last year. We're in the NCAA this year. And I think things are just going to get better from now on out. 

 Q. Just what he's done to change the culture? 
 LAWRENCE WESTBROOK: I was there. We were just really excited. Like what Damian said. It was kind of a shock that we got such a big-named coach. And like they said, he changed the mindset, gave us a lot of confidence and brought a lot of notoriety to the program, which is good. 

 Q. Tubby said on Sunday that he was going to try to minimize the distractions of the NCAA Tournament. What has he done between now and then just to kind of make things as normal as possible and try to minimize those distractions of what goes on here? 
 LAWRENCE WESTBROOK: Like Damian said, he's been really relaxed. Yesterday we saw a movie as a team, which is something we don't usually get to do. He's been really laid back. We have a lot of time to rest, and everything's just been really chill. So I think he just wants us to be as comfortable as possible playing in the biggest game of our lives.
 DAMIAN JOHNSON: Yeah, exactly what Westbrook said. I think he's trying to keep guys to remember that it's a business. It's all business, and he wants us to focus. But at the same time he doesn't want us to be too tense and too overanxious. I think he's just doing different things like having us go to the team movie, and visiting High Point, checking out the campus. That's something we probably would have never done any other time. So I think that was pretty big.
 JAMAL ABU-SHAMALA: Yeah, it's been pretty similar to a lot of our road trips with the preparation. But he's really, like they've said, he's tried to stay really positive and keep everyone on the same page. Just trying to enjoy the experience as much as we can. 

 Q. Can you talk about coach's demeanor specifically? Just how it's changed maybe this year, making the tournament and coming back to the NCAA Tournament? I know you guys are used to seeing him here with Kentucky. But how has he been acting ever since you guys arrived here? 
 LAWRENCE WESTBROOK: Coach Smith has always been a demanding coach. You know, but that's good because he expects a lot out on of you. I think that if your coach expects a lot out of you, you can reach your full potential. So he's just done the same thing to us this year. He expects a lot out of us, and we don't want to let him down. So we try to continue to work hard to improve every day so we can, you know, be as good as we can be.
 DAMIAN JOHNSON: The last couple of practices he's been more focused on improving on our areas that we've been struggling in, like rebounding and turnovers. He's having us do a lot of drills and stuff to help take care of the ball. I think that's going to be huge in the game in the NCAA. Because every possession counts as your last possession. So I think our team not turning the ball over is going to be huge. 
 JAMAL ABU-SHAMALA: Ever since we got here he's been really positive. Really encouraging. It seems like really just trying to emphasize to enjoy the experience. Because no one -- I think Jonathan Williams is the only guy on the team that's been to the NCAA Tournament. He just wants everyone to enjoy it, and keep positive spirits going into, like they said, the biggest game of our career. 

 Q. Would you talk about what you've seen on tape of Texas' Dexter Pittman? And I understand you've got a guy on your team that approaches him in size and how working against him may benefit y'all tomorrow night? 
 JAMAL ABU-SHAMALA: We have three big guys inside that I feel can do -- they're all really good defenders. I think two, Colton Iverson and Ralph Sampson are up there in blocks in the big 10, same with Damian. But we know Texas is a very good team inside. They have some big guys inside that can really hurt the other team. Then they have some good shooters on the outside. 
 So just we've been trying to simulate that in practice as much as possible with Jon Williams inside. You know, being a similar size to Dexter Pittman. So to kind of have that gives us a good feel of what we need to do to stop him. 

 Q. What confidence do you think Hoffarber and Nolen have at this point in the season? Do you sense they've had the kind of seasons they've want to have? 
 LAWRENCE WESTBROOK: Blake and who? 

 Q. Nolen and Hoffarber. 
 LAWRENCE WESTBROOK: I think they're confident. They're the visual players. And you know, it's a team game. So they're part of the team. It's our job to help out our teammates, and maybe not shooting like they normally would. They're fine. I know Blake and Al are excited for this chance. And I think they're going to do really well when we play tomorrow. 

 Q. What is the most important thing Coach Smith has brought to instill a winning culture in Minnesota? 
 JAMAL ABU-SHAMALA: You know, the first time we met with him, he said you've got to walk, you've got to act, you've got to have confidence in your ability and act like a champion. I think that's something that everyone took. I mean, having a coach that's won a National Championship, you know, he's just brought confidence just by that. 
 So we all really believe in his coaching and what he can do and achieve for us. We all just took that and kind of kept building confidence off on of that. 
 DAMIAN JOHNSON: I think he also brought a defensive mindset. I mean, very intense on defense. We have a great full court pressing team. And I think he brought that in, and he instilled it. And I think everyone bought into it from day one. And that's been big the last two years. 
 LAWRENCE WESTBROOK: I think that Coach has brought and instilled a lot of toughness, because people don't look at basketball and say it's a physical sport, but it actually is. And I think sometimes he wants to put on the uniform and jump out there. I've seen him like play one-on-one and stuff with guys. He throws elbows and he acts crazy sometimes. So I think just the toughness that he brings to the team. We've got to match Coach Smith's intensity and we'll be all right. 

AMY YAKOLA: We're joined by Minnesota Head Coach, Tubby Smith. Opening comments from Coach. 
 COACH SMITH: Thank you. We're first we're excited to be participating in the NCAA championships. It's good to be here in the Greensboro area where we have spent time in the past. Having gone to school at High Point University, a lot of friends and people we know in this area. But this is, again, a wonderful opportunity for our team. I'm really happy for our players and the University of Minnesota to get this chance to participate. 

 Q. If you could endure one more Rick Barnes question?
 COACH SMITH: Please, do I have to (laughing)? 

 Q. What do you suppose it was in Rick and maybe in yourself that first attracted you two to each other, and has enabled that friendship to grow throughout the years? 
 COACH SMITH: I don't know. Me and Rick and I go way back. You're right, we're good friends. I know there is nothing that I wouldn't do for Rick. I know there is nothing that Rick wouldn't do for me. That's why we've done absolutely nothing for each other ever since we've known each other (smiling). 
 I think it's similar backgrounds. When I say that, upbringing, common folks, where we're from. I'm from Southern Maryland, big family. I know he's from the Carolinas here, and not from major metropolitan. Both went to schools of similar size and philosophy. He went to Lenoir Rhyne, I went to High Point. I think those are things we have a lot in common along those lines.
 And probably learning the game of basketball from some outstanding coaches. Saw Coach Hodges here earlier who he played with at Lenoir Rhyne. Jerry Steele, and J.D. Barnett, and Bob Vaughn, I ran off three coaches. He was able to keep one. Actually two, I guess. 
 Those are the things that we have in common. We talk about our roots and our basketball background and philosophies. 

 Q. How did your meeting or your visit with Jerry Steele go today? Could you just sort of summarize your relationship with him? 
 COACH SMITH: Well, Coach Steele is from this area. He built an outstanding program at Guilford. His reputation as a player when he was at wake forest and playing for Bones McKinney, some of those things. And that's the good thing about having played for a guy like Coach Steele for one year, at least. I wish I'd played for him longer, because he's a very charismatic and funny guy. 
 But our visit today went well. He's gone through some health issues, but he's doing better. He was at our practice today at High Point. You know, it lasted 31, 32 years and been in this business a long time. 
 It was good to see him moving around. The last time I was with him he was barely able to get around. So I'm really pleased that he's doing better. He visited with our team for a little while. Gave some advice, and I appreciate him doing that. 

 Q. Their three-guard lineup, obviously guard play is going to be important. Can you talk about Blake Hoffarber and Al Nolen and their level of confidence after they've had somewhat up and down years - --
COACH SMITH: Well, we hadn't really particularly shot the ball well. Though we haven't shot it poorly in the last few games. You're right, in Texas, Balbay and Abrams and Mason, they're very talented. They come off the bench. Texas does come off with some other outstanding players. 
 We play a lot of guys in the back court, Devoe Joseph plays, and a lot of them have quality minutes. Certainly we're going to need that. This is a very good guard-oriented team. We're going to go with Jamal, Abu-Shamala. And Al Nolen, and Lawrence Westbrook. But you're right. We do feel like we have to do it that way. 
 We really don't have someone, other than Westbrook, that can really go get his own shot. You know, I think we've really -- that's going to be the key for us is being able to match, especially a young man like Abrams who can shoot the ball from anywhere, and will shoot it from anywhere. That's going to be a real challenge for our players defensively to keep him under control. 

 Q. Do you expect Hoffarber to play a lot, too? 
 COACH SMITH: Yes. 

 Q. You've had success in the NCAA Tournament, specifically in the first round. What do you attribute the success in the first round? How does it translate to the Gophers this year? 
 COACH SMITH: Well, I think a lot of it has to do as you're coming off the season, and coming off, usually tournament play, Big Ten play. And I think this time of year it's a matter of just focusing on the fundamentals. Obviously, the match-ups, the teams you're playing against. We really haven't had a chance to play the teams from other conferences. 
 But kids watch you play, and the good thing about it we did watch because Texas played two other common opponents from our league, Michigan State and Wisconsin. But what we try to do is go back to the fundamentals. Make it fun at this time of the year, because this is sort of the icing on the cake, and the reward for playing well the entire season. That's sort of the way I approach it. It's exciting, and just focus on having a good time and enjoying this experience. 

 Q. Can you just talk about the whole experience of being back here at the NCAA Tournament for yourself? And there was a year hiatus there since you were in Kentucky?
 COACH SMITH: Yeah, that group last year -- no, they were good guys. You know, I'm excited for all the young men I've ever had a chance to be around. That's what this is about. It's not about me. It's about the culmination. Because the good thing about it is you hear from players you haven't heard from in a while. They're excited for you, and they're pulling for you. And that's what it does. 
 I think this tournament and for me being back in the NCAA Tournament sends a message to our players and to our team that we're building, we're moving in the right direction. That they can see the progress that we're making in the program. And that makes it exciting for future potential Gophers as well. There's a lot that helps. And our fan base, the Gopher Nation hasn't been in the tournament for a while, so it's good. 
 But for me, again, to measure yourself against the best teams out there, and to be considered a top 65 team is a real -- and to see those teams, and see how players respond the way they did and react the way they did when their name came up on the board, so we appreciate the selection committee giving us the opportunity. 

 Q. Could you please tell us a little about Ralph Sampson's season, and did you know his dad before this? 
 COACH SMITH: Yes, well Ralph Sampson III is really one of the bright surprise -- I can't say surprises. Because the expectation was he would play. We knew we needed front line help immediately, and both he and Colton Iverson as freshmen have done as well as we could expect. And he's growing and improving every day. And Ralph Sampson II, his dad was very instrumental. And his mom as well. And wanting him to be a part of the Golden Gopher Basketball Program. So I had the good fortune to coach against Ralph Sampson when he was at Virginia, when I was at Virginia Commonwealth University with J.D. Barnett back in the early '80s. I coached against him three times. I don't think I ever seen a greater athlete as far as in college basketball than Ralph Sampson. His agility, he was just graceful. At that size, 7' 4", to do the things he could do. 
 And Ralph Sampson III, not as tall. About 6' 10", 6' 11", but he has good basketball skills. A great understanding, good understanding of the game. You know, it's going to take time as he matures and the body starts to develop in the weight room. He's going to be something special. 

 Q. Couple of years ago Minnesota's coming off a 22 loss season when you took over. What was it you saw in Minnesota that made you think this was a place that you could turn things around? What was it that appealed to you about the job? And how much different is the NCAA Tournament experience being here with Minnesota than maybe when you were here with Kentucky all those years? Is?
 COACH SMITH: Well, it's, you know it doesn't get any better. The excitement around it, and your juices get flowing, your energy level is up. You focus because you're excited for, again, to as I said before, it's a journey, and the culmination of the season to kind of put -- you never want to end it. Only a few teams in with wins in the season with the win, and that's usually the team that wins the championship. 
 So we know to have that opportunity and to have another chance for another season to come. And that's what it is, really, another season. When you get into postseason play. And that's how we approach it. 
 But the NCAA is really important in a lot of ways, and we can talk later. But the appeal of Minnesota was that it was I had been there a number of times recruiting. The Twin Cities is a great region. One of the best places in America to live for many reasons. 
 But, again, it always comes down to people. Dr. Bruening is our president, has a vision for the University to be a top, in the top 5% or the top 5 in the country in all aspects, and certainly athleticism is a big part of that. And Joel Maturi, our athletic director who coached basketball, and has had a great reputation, those are the kind of people you want to be around. And their vision is my vision. We want to be a part of it. And it excites you. It excited me when I was able to visit with them and talk about where they wanted this program to be and where they wanted it to go. 

 Q. Did you have any particular feeling about Kentucky not making the tournament this year? 
 COACH SMITH: Well, disappointed. A lot of those young men are young men that we recruited. You want to see them do well. They lost some talent off the team last year, but they have a lot of young talent, much like we do. You know, the SEC was a league that really struggled in some areas this year, and had a problem that hurt their chances. Their rating wasn't as high as a lot of the other BCS conferences. And I'm sure that had something to do with them not getting a bid. 

 Q. When you're at High Point, could you talk about the changes in the university since you've been there? And this is sort of tongue-in-cheek, but do you have any interest in the vacant head coaching job? 
 COACH SMITH: (Laughing), yeah, I've got a lot of interest in that vacant job. You know, I have three sons that are now in the coaching business. One was born in North Carolina, when I was coaching at Hoke County in Raford, North Carolina. But that being said, Bart Lundy did a good job. And any time you have to take a program from one division into Division I, it's tough.  And very few coaches last. So I just wanted to say that I was impressed with the job he did. I was always impressed with the way his team has played. But usually teams the minute there's a change in philosophy and direction, that sometimes happens. But he's an excellent coach and we wish him the best. 
 Having said that, the changes there that Quibain, the president who I had a chance to go to school with at High Point, so remarkable where that program, where the university itself and how they've established themselves as one of the, I guess, when you look at small universities, which they are relatively small in numbers than a school like Minnesota.
 We've got 50-plus thousand students. They only have 2,500 or 4, 000students there. So they've done a fantastic job with the landscape, the buildings. Obviously, the academic part of it has really grown by putting more degree programs. 
 Just going around the campus, the buildings, it's phenomenal how fast. But if anybody can do it, Nido Quibain has done it. He's a great spokesman, great salesman. I know he's hit me up some. So he's done a super job. 

 Q. Kind of along those same lines, you've been in a situation where before where your name has come up in other coaching vacancies when you're coaching in the tournament. Your name has recently come up. How do you handle that especially in a week like this where you're at the tournament? 
 COACH SMITH: Well, I'll focus on my job. I have a job. I have a great job. We're enjoying Minnesota. We have no reason to be looking at anything else. And I'm very happy where we are. 
 So it certainly is flattering sometimes, but it can be a distraction. The thing is we've gotten our recruiting done early, and that, hopefully it's good to be wanted. But it's more important to be needed. I feel like I'm not only wanted in Minnesota, but needed there as well. 

 Q. Can you talk about what you've learned over the years about what a coach can do to elevate his team's play during the tournament? 
 COACH SMITH: Well, I don't know. Every team is a little bit different, so you have to approach it differently. You have young teams, you have experienced teams, for now, this team is still learning. So the thing about coaching this team is that every day we have repetition that's important. 
 So we have to constantly -- and they're still growing. That is the good thing about hitting this. We haven't peaked yet, and that's good. We have a lot of growing left. Hopefully we'll have longer in the tournament that we can play. 
 But we know Texas is a team that we've focused on. As I said before, we don't really, this time of the year you want to sort of lighten up because they're already excited. Their adrenaline is flowing. So we want them relaxed and playing to their full potential. So I think my demeanor has been to make sure we keep them to be serious minded about our work, about what we have to get done. Also know that let's enjoy the moment. 

 Q. Can you talk about when you got to Minnesota, and obviously, they were coming off a six-win season. How you turned things around, and do you have a system, a belief in how to rebuild a program? 
 COACH SMITH: Well, they had nine wins. And the guys there, Dan Munson, and Jim Mallory, who was the interim coach, you know, they had some good kids in the program. Guys like Dan Coleman, Spencer Thompson, Lawrence McKenzie who graduated last year. Ryan Saunders. They were the back bone. 
 So when you take over a program you've got to make sure that they appreciate it. Because they chose to come there, and they're giving their best effort. So I think the returning players see that and appreciate that coach is going to give me a chance, you know, I'm not coming with any preconceived -- as I told them all. They're all going to start on ground one, and we'll evaluate you from there. 
 And that's an honest -- that's honestly what we've tried to do wherever we've been. And to instill some trust and some build some goals. They all want to be the best. They all came here because they love the U. And so it's a matter of them helping me adjust. And I usually tell them, I need your help. And that's the way I approach it. I'm here to help them, and they can help the program and themselves.
 Most of the time when you take over a program that's struggling, they're eager to be a part of it. They've seen the success that you've had, and they just want to be led the right way. And it's pretty easy, to be honest with you. And it's very fulfilling when you see them -- when you see the players and the program, and the people grow and appreciate the hard work that they've put in. 

 Q. With the group full of guys that haven't gone through anything like this NCAA Tournament before, how do you feel they've handled it so far? And what have you done to help them handle it? 
 COACH SMITH: Well, I try to remain the same. By that I mean realizing that fellows, we prepare this. We prepare the same way we would if we were preparing for Michigan State in a tournament or Northwestern. Because you want to keep everything as same as you can. You don't want to get, because now if there are a lot of distractions, you already have the media or the hype around you. 
 You have fans that are patting you on the back. You have relatives that are wanting tickets. So, we try to remain the same and try to keep things as calm and control those things that we can control as far as the proper rest, proper diet. That's basically the way we've handled it. 
 But you know, it's a change, too, because you've been playing games every two days. Now you've got -- say you lose Wednesday, so Friday. Now you've got a long time to practice. Probably the longest practice period they've had in some time. So you have to be careful that you don't go too hard. That's a real balancing act especially for a young team as well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT