AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2019
Alexei Popyrin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








L. POUILLE/A. Popyrin
7-6, 6-3, 6-7, 4-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What were you thinking during the third set tiebreak when you were trailing?
ALEXEI POPYRIN: A lot of emotions.  But just stay focused in the match.  Just stay focused on that point.  When he had match points, just to serve well, and just to close off.
Q. What about the final set, how would you describe how you played?
ALEXEI POPYRIN: I think I got a little bit unlucky with some of my challenges.  Had a couple very, very close calls.  The game that he broke me, I felt like I won that game.  The serve was out by just a little bit.  That kind of messed with my mind a little bit.
No, but I was happy with the way I fought in the first set.  I was happy with the way my body was holding up, yeah.
Q. Is that the first time you've played five sets?
ALEXEI POPYRIN: Yeah.
Q. You probably exceeded a lot of people's expectations, but what about your own?  Are you disappointed?
ALEXEI POPYRIN: Well, I think of course I'm disappointed.  I didn't win the match.  I'm happy with the way the week has gone.  Happy with the way I played.  Yeah, just unfortunately I couldn't get it done today or tonight.  That's going to sting a little bit.
Q. Did you surprise yourself at all with how well you handled the big stage this week?
ALEXEI POPYRIN: Yeah, no, I didn't surprise myself.  I felt pretty comfortable out there, yeah.  Like I said, I love playing in these big stadiums with massive crowds like it was tonight.  Yeah, I love it.
Q. Did it reaffirm that you're ready for the big stage?  What are your goals from here?
ALEXEI POPYRIN: Yeah, I reckon after tonight I think I'm ready.  Playing five sets, pushing it all the way to the end for the first time.  I'm happy with the way my body held up.  So I think I'm ready.
The goal now is just to focus on doubles and mixed doubles tomorrow.  Hopefully I can break the top 100 sometime soon.
Q. What is your next tournament?
ALEXEI POPYRIN: We're thinking to play Montpellier and Rotterdam, try to go through quallies there.  I'm going to try to play ATPs from now on.  Hopefully I can build my ranking up in those tournaments.
Q. What about Davis Cup?
ALEXEI POPYRIN: Yeah, definitely.  Davis Cup, it's always been my dream to play for Australia.  If I get the call up then, I definitely take it, no questions asked.  It's been a dream of mine since I was kid.  If I get the call, yeah, I'll 100% play.
Q. You seemed frustrated by some of the decisions.
ALEXEI POPYRIN: No, not by the decisions, just the close calls.  They were like, I don't know, one fingernail out.  That happened, like, twice I think.  Yeah, that kind of pissed me off.  Bad things happen.  I just got to keep going.
Q. How big a moment 3-All was that, all of a sudden it's 4-2?
ALEXEI POPYRIN: I felt like the won the game.  I already passed the balls over to the other side and there was a challenge.  It was the smallest out possible.  Yeah, it's always hard once you feel like you won the game, always hard to recompose yourself, yeah, fight for the game again.
But I take nothing away.  He played those three points really, really well after that challenge.
Q. You feel like you belong out there at the moment?
ALEXEI POPYRIN: Yeah, definitely.  I felt like I was where I'm supposed to be out there tonight, and this week also.  I definitely felt comfortable out there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT