DISCOVER BCS NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: ALABAMA v  NOTRE DAME
January 5, 2013
Chance Warmack
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Kind of a been there, done that, got the tee shirt attitude about a National Championship, or is this all just new and just good?
CHANCE WARMACK:   Oh, man, it's a brand new experience for me and my teammates.   Just taking it all in right now, happy and blessed to be here, be around good people, and just taking it all in and being blessed right now.   Man, I'm just blessed right now.

Q.   When you take a look at who you're going up against, what are the keys in your mind for you as an individual and, therefore, as part of the Bama team to excel on Monday night?
CHANCE WARMACK:   Just watching as a kid, and looking at their tendencies, and how they play their positions, and just getting off of that and making adjustments and communicating amongst ourselves.

Q.   Anything that you look and say, gee, it reminds me of XYZ team?
CHANCE WARMACK:   Not at all.   They're a completely different team from other teams we've faced this season.   That's why they're here.   One of the best teams that we've ever seen on film, and they play disciplined football.   That's what it's all about.

Q.   Your coach Nick Saban talked about the fact that it's a long layoff, it's a different kind of game because of that long layoff, and puts a lot of the burden on you as individual players to do what you need to do to stay not only physically prepared but mentally prepared.   How do you feel about this layoff?   Was this something that you as a team had to sit down and really had to make an effort to not let that affect you?
CHANCE WARMACK:   I think it's good because you sit down and we talk amongst ourselves on the team, and we find ways to get better amongst ourselves before we look at the game plan, and that's always a good thing to do, brush up on your technique.   I think that's always a good thing. 

Q.   When you look at the linebacker for Notre Dame, what jumps out at you?   Obviously Manti Te'o, but what else do you see?
CHANCE WARMACK:   The whole defense in general, but the linebackers, they play really good football.   They run to the ball very fast.   They read plays very quickly.   It doesn't take them too long.   They make big plays.

Q.   At what point does the game start feeling close?   Can you feel it getting closer? 
CHANCE WARMACK:   Most definitely.   Most definitely.   Even though I think‑‑ what's today, Saturday?   Even though it's Saturday, it feels like a Thursday.   This is a Thursday practice for me and my teammates, and you can feel your blood boiling a little bit as you get closer to the game, and you have a different sort of focus knowing that the game is right around the corner.

Q.   It's a little different this week, isn't it, despite how much you try to tell yourself it's not?
CHANCE WARMACK:   It's always different when you get closer to the game.   You have to reestablish what you're here for, reestablish your focus and start getting focused for the game because it's right around the corner.

Q.   This is not a fun bowl trip, this is sort of a business trip?
CHANCE WARMACK:   Always.   Always.   It's always a business trip.

Q.   Well, when it's not a National Championship, it was a little different at one time?
CHANCE WARMACK:   It's always a business trip for us, regardless if it's the National Championship or not.   We come here, and have it in our minds that we want to win the game and we have to prepare for that, and that's the main focus of our team.

Q.   At this point you look around here, what are you thinking? 
CHANCE WARMACK:   I'm just taking it all in.   I'm happy to be here in Miami, and I'm pretty sure my teammates are happy, too, and I'm just blessed and happy for this opportunity. 

Q.   When you look at Notre Dame on tape, how much do they resemble your own defense or other defenses you've seen?
CHANCE WARMACK:   They play a sound defense.   They don't make a lot of mistakes, and I appreciate that because it's so true.   You watch film and there's hardly any mistakes that they make on the film.   That's why they're so successful in what they do.   Not a lot of defenses can pull that off.   For them to do that consistently throughout the season shows how great they are as a defense.

Q.   Why are they so difficult up front?
CHANCE WARMACK:   They play physical football and they communicate amongst themselves and the communication is the key to success.   Everybody is on the same page and they make big plays all the time, and they don't have any problems.

Q.   There's a lot of different offenses, spreads, all these gimmicky kind of‑‑ air it out more.   These two teams being here, is it a testament to the old‑school, smashmouth type football?
CHANCE WARMACK:   I wouldn't call it old school, but this is the bread and butter, man, the bread and butter of football.   They play smashmouth defense and we play smashmouth offense.   Come Monday, it's going to be a big opportunity to see which team holds up.   I'm excited and my teammates are excited, and we're just excited to play each other.

Q.   How much in your preparations as an offense have you guys looked at Te'o and trying to get him blocked on every play?
CHANCE WARMACK:   He's an explosive player, he makes big plays all the time, and he reads the ball very well.   That's the main thing, just trying to get a hat on the hat, and just do our thing and trying to play the offense that we know how to play.

Q.   49 wins for the senior class, and that's a school record.   How significant is that to be able to do that?
CHANCE WARMACK:   Pretty much that's a big accomplishment amongst ourselves.   But then again, our focus is just trying to win the game.   We've prepared for it a lot, and we've watched a lot of film on it, and we just want to come out successful and execute on every play.

Q.   How about the rivalry between all the guys you came in with and everything you've been able to accomplish?
CHANCE WARMACK:   We're a big fan of them, and regardless of playing the game together, we all love each other on the team, and we all know what it takes to be successful and push ourselves to be successful, and that's what it's all about.

Q.   What kind of challenges does their defense present? 
CHANCE WARMACK:   Oh, man, I mean, they have a ton of good players, not only starters but backups.   When you look at the film, they show a lot of tenacity.   They play physical all the time, and I keep pushing that because it's true.   They get to the ball very fast and there are not a lot of big plays made by opposing teams, and that's what it takes.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT