NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: LIGHTNING v PENGUINS
May 25, 2016
Valtteri Filppula
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Feels like déjà vu in a way?   
VALTTERI FILPPULA: Yeah, I mean, it's been another tough series, and hopefully we can win one more game.  
   
 Q. What do you remember about going into Game 7 last year at the Garden? Was there anything that stands out about that, about going into that, that maybe helped you win that game?   
VALTTERI FILPPULA: I think that in that series we had to play some good games, and we had to play some good games over there. I think, since we've been playing well in Pittsburgh, it should give us confidence that we can win a game over there as well.  
   
 Q. How do you think Vasi has played in this series, and what do you expect from him tomorrow night?   
VALTTERI FILPPULA: Really well. If he plays the same way he has been playing so far, he's going to give us a chance to win. That's what you want from your goalie, and it's been really good to see how good he's been.  
   
 Q. Are you impressed with the impact the young guys have had in this series overall, Vasi, for one, and Kuch has been awesome again with the clutch goals he's come up with?   
VALTTERI FILPPULA: Yeah, for sure. You're asking me -- everyone is younger than me, so I'm impressed with the whole team. Yeah, for sure. I think they've been playing well. Kucher has been playing well the whole year, getting key goals for us the whole time, and it's been the same way in this series.  
   
 Q. If Stammer is somehow able to play Game 7, what kind of boost would that give you guys?   
VALTTERI FILPPULA: Obviously, he's a top player on our team, top player in the league. So you always want to have that kind of player in your lineup.  
   
 Q. Is there a curiosity among the players whether he's going to play or just leave him alone and hope he shows up tomorrow and ends up playing? How are you guys going to handle it?   
VALTTERI FILPPULA: I think, obviously, he's been gone for a while now. So we've kind of been focused on getting through it without him and just waiting for good news if that happens.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT