NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LIGHTNING v RANGERS
May 23, 2015
Valtteri Filppula
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Well, it's a three‑game series now.   How do you approach it in that regard? 
VALTTERI FILPPULA:   Well, I think we obviously go one game at a time.   I think we've been playing pretty well.   I think first game, first period, we didn't play how we wanted, but after that I think we've been playing pretty well.   Obviously, the last couple games it's tough when you give up so many goals, but I think in those games we've been doing a lot of good things.

Q.   Is it difficult to get a read on teams when every game seems to be so vastly different? 
VALTTERI FILPPULA:   No, I don't think so.   We played against them in the regular season.   Now we've played against them a few times already.   I think both teams know each other fairly well and know what the other team wants to do.   So it's not too tough.

Q.   You guys were so dominant in that second period.   Do you have to maybe play a more conservative brand of hockey (No Microphone)?
VALTTERI FILPPULA:   Well, I mean, you can't keep giving up so many goals.   I think that's the main thing.   I think we spent a lot of time in their zone, had a lot of good chances and should have scored a few more goals.   Obviously, that's the plan.   But I don't think we need to change too many things, just play a little bit better defensively.

Q.   Stamkos has obviously found his scoring touch in the last two games.   Have you noticed a difference in his game?   Is there more room for him?   Are you guys getting the puck to him better?   What is happening there? 
VALTTERI FILPPULA:   Well, I mean, he creates his own room.   He moves so well.   I think whenever you get a few goals and things go your way, you get more confident, and I think he looks really confident right now.   It's huge for us.

Q.   It's been a long time since Bishop has given up five goals in the back end.   How much confidence do you have in him going forward? 
VALTTERI FILPPULA:   A lot of confidence.   He's been great for us all year.   I think a lot of those goals they bounce off somewhere, there is not a whole lot he could have done.   I think he's one of the biggest reasons why we're here right now, so I have a lot of confidence in him. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT