US OPEN
September 6, 2004
Shinobu Asagoe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  You were down 3-1 in the first set and you were down again in the second set 2-1.  What did you keep telling yourself to come back, especially in that first set? 
 
SHINOBU ASAGOE:  Especially in the first set, I wasn't serving very well, in the first set especially.  So keep telling myself, "Serve better."  It really got better towards the second set.  But actually I don't know exactly how or what I was telling myself, you know, to get it over.  
 
Q.  Do you have a preference who you'll play next, Venus Williams or Lindsay Davenport, and why? 
 
SHINOBU ASAGOE:  I don't have any preference.  I never won either of them before, so...  
 
Q.  What kind of results have you had against both of them in the past? 
 
SHINOBU ASAGOE:  I play Venus three times before, and I all lost.  Davenport, I played her two years back in Wimbledon, and I lost, too.  
 
Q.  What kind of emotions are going through you right now, being this far in a Grand Slam event? 
 
SHINOBU ASAGOE:  I was trying my best to just keep going, but still I probably can go further.  So I'm not really satisfied right now.  I have to go further from here.  
 
Q.  Are you just trying to keep your emotions level, even keel, not getting too excited at this point? 
 
SHINOBU ASAGOE:  I'm still happy, but trying to tell myself that have to play more. 
 
Q.  You came into the US Open with a losing record.  Now you're in your first Grand Slam quarterfinal ever.  That must make you very happy. 
 
SHINOBU ASAGOE:  Just simply I'm happy today with the result.  I'm not sort of overreacting with the result that I have now because I'll have another match day after tomorrow.  I'm not really, you know, too much excited by the moment, but still I'm happy.  
 
Q.  You made 53 unforced errors today.  Do you feel that's one area of your game you're going to have to improve on to beat Davenport or Williams? 
 
SHINOBU ASAGOE:  Either Davenport or Venus, they both good player, so easy mistakes going to be fatal.  I have to be like 120% just playing to beat them, if possible.  That's going to be the key.  
 
Q.  This is your first Grand Slam quarterfinal.  Do you think this will inspire younger players in Japan to pick up a tennis racquet and play the game? 
 
SHINOBU ASAGOE:  I would be happy if I made them sort of think that, you know, I made them inspired a bit.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT