NCAA BASEBALL CHAMPIONSHIP REGIONALS: BATON ROUGE
June 6, 2016
Jameson Fisher
Daniel Midyett
Matt Riser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Rice - 15, Southeastern Louisiana - 0   
MATT RISER: Proud of this club.  I hate the way this thing finished but can't oversee what we've done on the year, back-to-back 40-win seasons, 3.15 GPA, 600 community service hours with that club.  That's a special group of young men, not only as ballplayers, but as human beings, as well.   
THE MODERATOR: Daniel, you're a senior, had a big day today and at one time had the only two hits off their starter.  Talk about the day at the plate and also your career at Southeastern.   
DANIEL MIDYETT: As far as today goes, I was just going out there and playing.  I knew it had a chance to be my last game ever, so I was just going out there, I was loose, I felt pretty good and I was just taking my at-bats one at a time.   
As far as my time at Southeastern, I mean, there's really not many words I can say to describe it all.  But I mean, I've learned more than I thought I would.  I've become a completely different person than what I came in, and it was really great.   
THE MODERATOR: Jameson, I know probably a frustrating weekend for you, but great year.  Talk about your year.  Talk about your plans.   
JAMESON FISHER: First, I want to say thanks to Coach Riser, all the coaches, everything they have done.  It was definitely not the way you want to go out, but I'm proud of the way I finished my career here, or possibly fin my career here.   
Like I said, I can't thank everybody at Southeastern enough for everything they have done for me.  I hope they continue it going on.   
 Q.  What did you see from Kyle today, and why did you feel like he needed to come out so early?  Did you feel like he just didn't have it today?  
MATT RISER: Yeah, looked good in the first inning.  Obviously looked like the guy we thought we were going to have there for the game and then really lost command.  His stuff went down pretty severe, pretty fast, and that was the game.   
With as much bullpen as we had, Rice can pitch it.  We couldn't be in a situation to give up a whole lot of runs there, and so we had to quick trigger there with Kade.   
 Q.  What was Salinas going so well against y'all today that gave y'all trouble?  
JAMESON FISHER: Just commanded the strike zone.  Threw really good pitches and when he threw it, we just didn't have AN answer for it, I guess.   
DANIEL MIDYETT: Yeah, he commanded all three pitches.  He was spotting up like he's supposed to and he did really well.   
 Q.  Can you elaborate, the season as a whole, especially last season, falling short, and these guys rebounding and making it back here and getting that win here, I know you didn't finish like you would or you should, but can you elaborate on that?  
MATT RISER: Yeah that's just the tenacity of this ballclub and the guys in our program.  They sat there last year on the odds in-out (ph) and made a commitment to themselves and to this club and this program, this university, to take control of that and hopefully let that happen again and obviously got us to where we were.  Obviously that's two regional wins in the last three years, and we've had one going into that in program history.   
It's just what our guys are made up of.  They have got a lot of grit, a lot of grind and a lot of heart in what they do.   
 Q.  I know we're just a few fins removed from the end of the season, but back-to-back 40-win seasons, what's that do for the foundation of what you guys are building at Southeastern?  
MATT RISER: I remember sitting in this podium two years ago when we got knocked out and Sam is sitting up here saying we took the program to another level and we did.   
And now I think that's the same thing we're at now.  Obviously the back-to-back 40-win seasons but the first at-large bid our program has ever had, kind of broke that ice to get us in thing.   
We are not content with this.  This is not a good feeling.  At the end of the day, like I told the guys, at the end of the day, there's going to be one team happy at the end of the year that's dog-piling, and I want to be that team.  As I sit here and look at you and talk to you, only thing I can see on the wall is Omaha and it's a drive that's going to keep us going.   
 Q.  What's it mean to you guys to be a part of what Southeastern has built into as a baseball program?  
JAMESON FISHER: Like Coach said, it's awesome to see the way we've started building things, and 20, 30 years down the road, it's going to be exciting to look back and see what continued after we left; to see what they continued to do when we left from what we started.   
So that's going to be, for me, the coolest thing to do is 20, 30 years down the road is look back and see what's been -- what kept building.   
DANIEL MIDYETT: Yeah, it's nice to kind of be at the beginning of Southeastern on a national stage.  We got the first two regional wins in program history, and I think there's a really good chance that they go a lot further.   
 Q.  You briefly touched on it, but do you know what you're doing next year, and what goes into that decision to decide?  
JAMESON FISHER: Only thing I want to say on that I guess is we'll just have to wait and see this weekend.  Whatever God's will for me will be done I feel like, and we'll wait and see what happens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT