WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL C: TORONTO
March 7, 2009
Frank Catalanotto
Marco Mazzieri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions for the manager or Frank Catalanotto.  
  
  Q. Second guessing, it was too early to take DiFelice out of the game?   
 MARCO MAZZIERI: Well, being a Monday morning quarterback, it's too easy. And I think we like our chances with Jason and Lanny going in right after Mark. We didn't want to push Mark too much farther, because at this point and time in the season, I think it wasn't fair to him to stretch him out a lot longer.   
 We kind of asked him to give us four quality innings, and that's what he did. We really appreciate his effort, and I think, again, I mean, we liked -- at that time, we liked our chances with Jason going in. It just didn't work out.  
  
  Q. Question for both of you guys. Early on, it seemed like you had Silva pretty much on the ropes, a couple runners on base every inning. How disappointing is it not to be able to cash in on at least one of those opportunities in the first five innings?  
 FRANK CATALANOTTO: It was disappointing. I mean, after those first four innings, we definitely got their attention, and we couldn't get that big hit with runners in scoring position. And, you know, sometimes that happens.   
 But, you know, that was really the story of the game. We left runners on base, and when you got a team like that, and you got them kind of on the ropes, like you said, you got to bury them, and you got to knock them down. And we weren't able to do that.   
 But I think we definitely showed some heart out there. And we showed that Italians can play baseball. We weren't embarrassed out there. We were facing a pretty good line-up. I mean, one through nine, they got a lot of superstars there. It was just disappointing not to get those runs across when we had the chance.   
  
  Q. Frank, what did you think of the Netherlands victory over the Dominican Republic today, and what do you think that means for you guys going forward?  
 FRANK CATALANOTTO: We all watched the game, and we were excited. You know, it made us think, you know, we can surprise a team here just like the Netherlands did.   
 You know, again, if we would have got those timely hits, the game would have been totally different. Like Marco said, Mark pitched a heck of a four innings for us, and we just, you know, gave up some runs in the fifth.   
 But getting back to your question, I mean, I think it gives us some hope that, you know, even though we didn't win today, we can still win the next game.  
  
  Q. Frank, you talked about their early chances. When you get a guy like Felix Hernandez coming out of the bullpen, how tough is it to try to break against a guy like him?  
 FRANK CATALANOTTO: He is tough. He is one of the toughest in the league. We wanted to try to do damage against Silva, and, you know, we weren't able to. But I'm sure the U.S. team is pretty happy that we made them use Hernandez.   
 But he pitched -- you know, when he came in, he shut us down. And he was throwing some really good splits. And, you know, the good thing is that, like I said, we made them use him, and they didn't think they were going to have to use him today. So, I mean, I guess that makes us, you know, happy in that regard, that we kind of screwed that up for them.  
 THE MODERATOR: Okay, guys, thanks.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT