WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 1ST ROUND POOL D
March 11, 2017
Marco Mazzieri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Venezuela - 11, Italy - 10   
 Q.  Talk about the last play of the ninth inning, a couple people were injured.  Talk about it from your perspective.  
MARCO MAZZIERI: Well, I think the effort that we put out, it's out there, so everybody could see it.  But this is what we talked about the very first day.  These guys just -- they're showing it every outing.  So it's no surprise to me that we're doing this.   
The last play, actually it's a strange play.  It's very strange because I think -- I haven't talked to Drew Butera, but I think he saw that the throw from the outfield missed the cutoff man, and the pitcher should have never been there because as a pitcher, what you do is back up either home plate or third place.  You don't stay on the mound or in the infield.  That is a very strange play from both sides, but again, I didn't talk to Drew.  I would like to right now, and I think he saw that throw over the head of the cutoff man.   
The first baseman is at first base.  The pitcher shouldn't have been there.  That's what happened.   
 Q.  Can you describe what the emotion is out there?  Such an exciting game with so many options for both teams.  
MARCO MAZZIERI: The emotions, we leave them after the game.  Right now we cannot get pressured by emotions because tomorrow we have another game.  We turned the victory the other day.  We're going to turn this game the same way.  Now get a good shower, a good dinner, and tomorrow we start thinking about the game against Puerto Rico.   
 Q.  There is a scenario where tomorrow there is a do-or-die game, almost a seventh game.  What would it be like to be playing a game of that magnitude?  
MARCO MAZZIERI: When you play a tournament, when you have three games in order to get through, everything is important.  Everything is determining.  Like I was saying, it's not that we're going to try any different.  That's what we've been trying so far.  So then it's important to go and rest, and tomorrow morning we'll talk about tomorrow's game, and we'll go play and do whatever -- everything like the two last games.   
 Q.  What was the big key today for you?  
MARCO MAZZIERI: The key?  I have one, but I cannot talk about that.  We should pitch better.  That's one thing.  But there were things happening about the fifth inning that I didn't like a lot.  But I think that in Mexico City everybody was out in the third, not much, but they did one more run than we did, and we didn't win the game.   
 Q.  Who do you have to open tomorrow against Puerto Rico, and if you can talk about yesterday's 11-0 game against Venezuela?  
MARCO MAZZIERI: We're going to -- I have to tell Major League Baseball first.  I cannot say it like this.  What was the other question?   
 Q.  What was your opinion about Puerto Rico's 11-0 game against Venezuela yesterday.  
MARCO MAZZIERI: Puerto Rico has a very good team.  It's an All-Star team.  That's Venezuela, also.  When they can pitch and play well, they can go against anybody.  We cannot think about the players that Puerto Rico has because if we start doing that, we're out.  We're dead.  We have to worry about ourselves and play better than what we have been doing today.   
 Q.  Talk about the collision, what you saw at home plate with Butera.  
MARCO MAZZIERI: I don't think that was much of a collision because it was a squeeze play.  It's not that he charged the catcher.  I didn't know he got hurt, honestly, because it was just a normal play I would call it, and I don't know what happened, honestly.  And those two are teammates.   
 Q.  But he's fine, Butera is fine?  
MARCO MAZZIERI: I haven't talked to him.  Haven't talked to him yet.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT