BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2013
James Kingston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   66 to the very top of the leaderboard, tell us about that round?  
JAMES KINGSTON:   Yeah, it was nice.   Obviously getting an invite into this event, what a great feeling to be back here.   I've got to thank The European Tour for extending that invitation.   Yeah, I think we've made the most of it today.   
Played nicely.   Got off to a decent start.   Unlucky not to make birdie on 4 to get to 1‑under, but then kept it together and hit a couple of really close shots.   Made some good putts when I needed to.   But overall, I played really nicely and very happy with that.  
   
 Q.   Our viewers got used to seeing you winning tournaments and contending in tournaments and going along nicely and all of a sudden last year your form completely dipped; tell us what happened.   
JAMES KINGSTON:   Actually I don't know.   I looked at my stats and I didn't feel they were that bad.   Played very nicely.   Very frustrating.   Because like I say, I thought my long game was on par with all the other years.   Just I couldn't get the ball in the hole and I couldn't get a score on the card.   
And that's the biggest difference.   When you don't make those 10‑foot putts when you've hit good shots, they actually don't mean anything.   I think that's the biggest difference.   I'm starting to make a few more putts and that gets the scoreboard ticking over.  
   
 Q.   Explain to our viewers your status now, you lose your card at the end of last year, where do you play, how do you play what goes on?  
JAMES KINGSTON:   You're not automatically into most of these events.   You have to either rely on an invite or get in whenever your category comes up or whenever you get in on your category.   
So it's tough to plan your schedule ahead.   But it takes one good week and things change again, so hoping to do the most and hoping to make the best of this week and see what happens for the rest of it.   
   
 Q.   What was working for you out there today?  
JAMES KINGSTON:   I don't know, I played nicely, I knew it was not going to be out there easy out there.   All you try to do is keep the ball in the fairway and give yourself as many chances as possible.   I hit some good iron shots and tapped in a few.   Made some putts when I needed to, made one or two good saves and most of the 10‑, 12‑footers that I had for birdies.  
   
 Q.   You're a veteran out here and last year you lost your card and you get an invitation to play this week; how hard is it to find some footing in this sport when you don't have your schedule set out week‑by‑week?   
JAMES KINGSTON:   Yeah, it makes it very difficult, because you don't get on a roll.   You're relying on getting an invitation or getting in on your ranking, your number.   But again, like I say, it really makes it difficult to plan.   
I got an invitation last week, Thursday, and sometimes if you had known that, you may have played the week before.   But that's the position that I'm in and it's only because I didn't play well enough last year.   But hoping to change that this year, it takes one decent week somewhere and you get back on the Tour.   
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on a round like that to start?  
JAMES KINGSTON:   Yeah, nice.   I knew it was going to be a tough day, not easy.   Got off to a decent start and just built on that.   Hit a couple of really good iron shots.   Made a couple of clutch putts and made the putts that counted today and played nicely.   Very pleased with that.   
   
 Q.   Still tricky out there but did you cut a break with the way the weather is now?  
JAMES KINGSTON:   I don't know what it was early this morning, but at a stage during the round, halfway, midway through when we were playing 8, 9, it really got cold and windy and a bit of drizzle.   Luckily it didn't last too long.   
So yeah, I think it's been a tough day all day.   And it's just one of those days, you're happy to walk off with a decent score.  
   
 Q.   I appreciate you had some lovely performances on The European Tour in the South African events earlier in the season but with respect, we don't see much of you, so explain your situation.   
JAMES KINGSTON:   It's one of those, I lost my card last year and felt like I played half decent but never could get a good score on the board.   You know, that's the way it goes.   Been out here for 11 years, it's tough to lose your card; it's the first time in my career, so I had to deal with that.   
Got off to a decent start early in the season, played nicely in South Africa.   So we're busy building on that, and let's see what happens.  
   
 Q.   Even harder to deal with when we know that you're a multiple champion?   
JAMES KINGSTON:   Yeah, for myself, you never expect to lose your card.   I never felt like I played poorly enough to lose my card last year and that's what makes it even more frustrating.   Felt like I actually played half decent throughout the whole season.   But just never managed to put a score on the board.   Yeah, it does make it a little harder to accept.  
   
 Q.   Might be a ridiculous question, but does it make you all the more determined to succeed knowing you've lost out and got to get back?  
JAMES KINGSTON:   Sometimes it does.   Got a point to prove again, even if it's just to yourself.   But spending a bit of time at home, traveling a little less, who knows, maybe it also helps.   You're a little more relaxed and when I did play back home, I played nicely.   So hoping to get the form back and hoping to build.   
   
 Q.   Life is good and health is good?   
JAMES KINGSTON:   Yeah, I can't complain, everything is well, family is good.   I've got some other interests as well back home which helps and keeps the mind off golf day‑in and day‑out.   So I'm actually in a very fortunate position.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT