BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 13, 2008
James Kingston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Can you describe the way you played for us today?   
 JAMES KINGSTON: Probably as close as I could play to flawless golf. I had two poor shots, one at 11 my missed the green and I had sand wedge into 13 which was disappointing after the putt at 12.   
 But other than that, I thought I played flawless golf, hit almost every fairway, and those were the only two greens I missed. Missed one or two short-ish putts where I thought I had a chance at 14 and one at 16, and obviously the bonus at 17. Shaved the hole at 18.   
 So, I couldn't do much more than that. I had a great weekend to come from basically just making it on the cut to being in contention.  
  
  Q. You're not out of it yet, and clearly you were aware of the leaderboard out there; was your game plan at that point to push the pedal on the gas a little bit, perhaps accelerate your strategy?  
 JAMES KINGSTON: Not really, no. I didn't really pay much attention to it. I noticed after about 13 holes that we were pretty bunched up there. But I tried to just play my own game, put the ball in the fairway, put it on the green and give myself chances.   
 It's not the kind of golf course that you can really, especially the last few holes, really attack and get too many birdies out there. You've just got to give yourself decent chances and that's all I did.   
  
  Q. Did you always think there was a chance you could push on today?   
 JAMES KINGSTON: If I'm realistic, probably not. I felt I was just too far back. But obviously having posted 66, and the course not playing at its easiest, obviously I'm right in with a chance now. Obviously Graeme McDowell is at 13-under and playing well and not too sure what the chances are but a couple good holes coming in.  
 It was a dream start, holing the putt on the first. I hit two good shots and then missed a really good chance at the second and then making birdie at 3, as well, just put me in that positive frame of mind. Played nice and solid, one bad mistake, one bad shot at 11. I should never have gone at that flag. Not that I really did, but I should have played it more safely to the safer part of the green, and that's the only blemish on my card. Pleased with the way I played.  
  
  Q. The crowds certainly liked the putting towards the end?  
 JAMES KINGSTON: Making a long putt like that after missing one or two short-ish ones, especially 14, you hit a good tee shot and you feel you should definitely walk away with three, and you have a chance of making two and you auction with a way with four, not nice, but making a putt like that on 17 where all you're trying to do is 2-putt and you make that, it's just a bonus.   
  
  Q. So do you try and relax or straight back out on the range?  
 JAMES KINGSTON: I'm not sure. They have got a few holes to play. I'll monitor it and if need be, then go warm up. But it's nice to be in this position.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT