NL WILDCARD GAME: ROCKIES VS CUBS
October 2, 2018
Nolan Arenado
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nolan, what are your thoughts on Lester, just the challenge he presents for you guys tonight?  He's been in a lot of big games in his career.  
NOLAN ARENADO: Yeah, I think with Jon, obviously he's pitched a lot of big games, and he's one of the better pitchers in our game.  I have a lot of respect for him.  I've been around him a couple times at the All-Star Game and I've seen his work ethic, so I have a lot of respect for how he goes about his business, and I've heard that he works extremely hard.   
You know, it's going to be a tough task.  We understand that.  But we're more than ready.  We've seen him a few times, so there's some experience there.  Yeah, there's no doubt you're going up there to play, and you know it's going to be a battle with him.  But we're going to be ready.   
 Q.  Nolan, you guys had a really tough division to get through the NL West.  How has that prepared you now that you're in the postseason in this spot?  And describe what it's like just to be here in the Wild Card game.  
NOLAN ARENADO: Well, it feels great.  Obviously we lost a tough game yesterday, but it's easy to turn the page when you know you've got another bigger game than it was yesterday.  You know, we're very fortunate to be in the playoffs.  There's a lot of teams that wish they were in this position.  So we're very happy to be here, and we're excited.   
Our division is a tough division, there's no question about it, the Dodgers, Diamondbacks, San Fran, no walk in the park, and the Padres are up and coming.  We're more than prepared.  We've faced good arms.  We face them all the time, and we know the Cubs have good arms, also.  But it'll be another battle but we've been through it before.   
 Q.  This time last year making your first postseason appearance, now it's your second one.  Does it feel any different for you now the second time around?  
NOLAN ARENADO: Well, the experience is great.  Whenever you have experience it's a great teacher.  We've been here before.  We've been in this Wild Card game before.  Obviously the atmosphere is going to be very different than Arizona last year.  It's going to be loud just like it was, just a different field, but it's going to be electric, as we expect.  But we've been through it.  We've been through some electric games.  We were just in LA yesterday; it got pretty loud there.  We were in Arizona last year.   
We've been in some big atmospheres, so I don't think that will affect us.   
 Q.  It's a weird situation for both teams.  You mentioned turning the page; what was that long plane ride like?  How is the visiting clubhouse after the Brewers celebrated?  Just the mindset of the whole thing because it is weird, you lose but you've got to get excited for this thing.  
NOLAN ARENADO: Well, the clubhouse smells good, so they did a good job cleaning it up.  There was no residue or bad smells from the party the Brewers had, so that was nice.   
But it's easy to turn the page.  We're in the playoffs, like I said.  I think we lost a game that could have won the division yesterday.  We understand that.  But the flag was flying, playing cards, guys smiling, playing music, ready to go.  That's all you ask for from our group.   
It was easy to turn the page.  Obviously there's some frustrations losing.  Obviously you want to win the division, but we didn't do that, so we're here now, and we can't wait.   
 Q.  From the last time you guys were here, last couple of games were pretty good for you there.  Your memories of that series and what you can take from that into this game tonight?  
NOLAN ARENADO: Well, I think, yeah, just -- I think Chicago, their fan base is pretty wild.  It doesn't matter -- obviously I know it's going to be really loud today, but even that series we played here, it was really loud, also.  You know, I think they're always good about bringing fans in, so I think you always expect that coming in here.  I kind of have a feel for how the field plays.  Obviously I'll get a better field when I go hit BP.  But yeah, we faced Lester the last time we were here, and we know how good he is.  But yeah, I think whenever you play in a certain place, you always have a little familiarity.   
 Q.  There's a certain rhythm to this game, and seldom do you play three games in three cities in three days.  How much is left in the tank for you guys, and what kind of challenge is that or how are you embracing that?  
NOLAN ARENADO: Yeah, it's definitely a challenge, but we're more than prepared.  We're in the playoffs.  I mean, I don't know how to -- I can't explain that any more.  I think the fact that we have a chance to do something special today, it's easy to get fired up for these games.  No sleep, a lot of sleep, it don't matter.  The adrenaline is going to kick in once that anthem guys or once you step on that field.  It's going to be easy to get ready for tonight.   
 Q.  Nolan, you talked just a couple minutes ago about there is no substitute for experience in these type of games.  You saw last year in the Wild Card game Jon Gray kind of -- you could almost say he got swallowed by it.  What are your thoughts on Kyle taking the mound today in the exact same situation that he has no experience in?  
NOLAN ARENADO: Yeah, I think obviously with Kyle, he's a tough-minded guy.  He's an ultra competitor.  I expect him to be on his A game.  I know he's on short rest, but that doesn't matter.  He's ready to go.  I see his work ethic.  I see the way he acts day in and day out, and I know he's going to be prepared, and he's going to do the best he can.  That's all you can ask for with a starting pitcher.  All you ask is that he's prepared and he's ready to go, and I know he will be.   
I don't think the lights will be too big for him.  He wants the ball, and for me, as a position player, playing behind a pitcher, that's all you want.  You want the pitcher to want the ball, and he wants it.  So that's what you want.   
 Q.  There were some years early in your career and long ago with the Rockies where the home-road split was really dramatic, team didn't do well on the road, but this year you guys did.  Why do you think there's been improvement there?  
NOLAN ARENADO: I think it's pretty easy:  I think it's the starting pitching honestly, giving us a chance to win every game, game in and game out.  I think the fact they're keeping us in games close on the road and then we have a chance to score a couple, runs and our bullpen has done a great job in the second half.  It all starts with starting pitching.  If your starting pitching gives you a chance to win, you never know what's going to happen.  Especially with our offense.  We always have an opportunity to score runs or score quick with a big homer.  So it's up to the starting pitching.   
 Q.  Nolan, when you look at the Cubs over the last National League team to win the World Series.  Do you see them with a certain type of swagger, and is there an individual or two that stand out as leaders when you watch them play and play against them?  
NOLAN ARENADO: Yeah, they have a lot of swag.  They're a great team.  They've won a World Series.  They've been in pressure situations before.  We have a lot of respect for them and their players that they have over there.  They've got some good competitors.  We understand who we're facing and we understand that we're in their house, but we've played in a lot of tough places before, and we've got a tough team, also.  I'm not really worried about who's over there and what they're doing.  I think we're more concerned with what we know we need to accomplish, and that's going to help us win the ballgame.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT