BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 2016
Rhein Gibson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RHEIN GIBSON: It was nice.  Kind of leaking a little bit of oil there on 7 and 8 to make birdie on 9.  And this system kind of squared with up two bogeys.  So it's good.   
 Q.  Sitting in third place right now.  You gotta like the position you've put yourself in heading into the weekend?  
RHEIN GIBSON: Yeah, I feel really good.  I'm playing well, making some putts.  Yesterday afternoon was tough.  So hopefully the greens stake out like they were yesterday.  And hopefully I'm right around where I am right now.   
 Q.  What do you think about playing in this format and this tournament?  What's your favorite part about being here?  
RHEIN GIBSON: I mean, just trying to make as many birdies as you can.  And it almost frees you up a little bit.  Bogey's only one point, whereas a birdie's two.  So it's double.  So I try to get out there, stay aggressive.  If you hit a poor shot, make sure bogey is the worst.   
 Q.  I know you're disappointed with the two bogeys.  But gotta feel good to close with the birdie there to get back?  
RHEIN GIBSON: Absolutely.  Kind of got me in the right direction coming the weekend.   
 Q.  What is the game plan going into the weekend?  Gotta like where you're headed.  Five back right now.  Could be a little more, but right there.  
RHEIN GIBSON: I feel good.  I'm just going to keep doing what I'm doing.  Feel like I'm playing well.  Hitting a lot of 3-irons and 3-woods off the tees because of the altitude.  Just trying to get myself in play and give myself as many opportunities as I can.   
 Q.  What's the key out there on this course?  Some guys are saying they're hitting driver, some aren't.  
RHEIN GIBSON: I think it's more you need to be in the fairway to kind of attack these greens.  You need to miss the greens in the right areas, because the rough's pretty brutal.  Like I said, yesterday afternoon the greens staked out pretty good.  So you couldn't really attack the flags.   
 Q.  A British Open berth on the line this week for whoever is the highest finisher who's not currently in the field.  Is that something you think about, and how special is that, having the carrot?  
RHEIN GIBSON: It's pretty cool.  I played it two years ago.  I was fortunate enough to get in.  What a cool experience.  It would be fun to get back, absolutely.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT