NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 25, 2015
Rhein Gibson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








(In progress.)
RHEIN GIBSON: Hope to keep it going over the weekend.
Q. What demons have you been battling?
RHEIN GIBSON: Haven't been hitting the driver too well.  Just confidence with my game.  Hopefully I can keep it going.
Q. What have you learned?  I know your first year out here on this tour playing a full season.  What are a couple things you've taken away from it?
RHEIN GIBSON: I've played a lot this year.  Schedule hasn't been so great as far as weeks off and the travel schedule.  I think it's important to take weeks off if you can afford to.  That's the thing out here, you can't really afford to take a week off.  I really haven't been in position to take a week off because I didn't win or anything.
I guess that's probably the biggest thing.
I've been playing pro now for six years, so I'm used to the travel and going everywhere.  That's no big deal for me.
Q. Shot 55, which people around here don't know.  Is that really in Guinness?  Looked it up and some guys in the '50s shot 55.
RHEIN GIBSON: That was at -- from my understanding, that was Romero or --
Q. Yeah.
RHEIN GIBSON: It was a nine-hole course played twice.  Since then, they have made stricter regulations.  Course has to be over 6500 yards, and mine was like 68or 69.  Yeah, so par 71; 16 under.
Yeah, I've got the certificate at home.  It's ratified.  It's in the 2013 book, I think.  It's a red covered book.
Q. Obviously that's a fun, great thing.  Does that dog you at all, follow you?
RHEIN GIBSON: It's funny you say that.  I've done a lot of private housing this year, and the great thing about Google is before I show up they know more about me than I know me.  Oh, you shot 55.  That's kind of the first topic they bring up rather than what other stuff I've done on the course.
I mean, I don't want it to kind of be my career.  I'm trying to make a career out golf.  I feel like I'm like I am on the right track and I have had a decent here.  Be nice to finish it off here and play the big show next year.
Q. May be a dumb question, but was that your greatest round or maybe because course was a little bit easier you had what you felt was a better round?
RHEIN GIBSON: I don't know.  That's pretty high up there.  I don't know if there would be one to beat it.  I can't really think of one that was on par with it.
Yeah, not off the top of my head.
Q. You can't use those words, "on par."
RHEIN GIBSON: Yeah, no kidding.
Q. That was during a tournament or just playing?
RHEIN GIBSON: Saturday morning.  So Americans don't do competitions, you know, like club competitions.  We always had a group of 6 to 12 guys, pros and amateurs.  Always had the first tee time on Saturday, and we would always gamble and play for money.  Everything was putted out.  It was full on like pro golf.
Yeah, so that morning we had six, so two threesomes.
Q. Did guys just get quiet?
RHEIN GIBSON: Yeah, they did actually.  It was really funny, because it had rained for about two or three days before the Saturday we played.  The range was closed.  I showed up 8:20 for an 8:30 tee time.  I hit three putts, went straight to the 10th tee, we threw the balls up, and I skanked a 3-iron down the middle, hit a wedge on the green, and 2-putted for par.
Hour and a half later I made the turn at 10-under; I par 1 and 2 and then have three birdies in row; have a par; finish with three birdies in row.  Added up to 16.
After about -- once I started getting on those runs on the second nine, the front nine, the guys started to be quiet.  Didn't want it jinx me.
They were letting everyone know.  By the time we reached the 9th hole, there were 30 or 40 people out there watching.  There were text messages going off every second, retweets.  Pretty well-documented by any playing partners.
Q. Yeah, you would take a bit more of that today, I am sure.
RHEIN GIBSON: Yeah, absolutely.
Q. Is that something that makes it easier for you to go low and not get too nervous when you get off to a good start?
RHEIN GIBSON: I mean, you can go back and look at my career.  I've shot some low numbers.  Even Panama this year I had it going.  I am not afraid to go low.  That's a good thing for this tour anyway.
I actually find tougher courses better for me.  I like to grind when par is a good score and stay patient.  I'm really, really enjoying this week here so far.
Q. Played here before?
RHEIN GIBSON: No, first time.
Q. First impressions?
RHEIN GIBSON: Jack Nicklaus likes bunkers, and he's definitely put them where everyone is going to hit them.  It's not an old-style course where you can still hit driver over the bunkers.  He's got them perfectly positioned.  You need to be in the fairway to attack the pins.  If not, you're just playing conservative.
Green structure is really tricky as hard and fast as the greens are.  Just have to manage your game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT