U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2014
Bo Andrews
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PETE KOWALSKI: We'd like to welcome Bo Andrews, new member of the Atlanta Athletic Club, former Georgia Tech player, 5 & 4 winner over Chris Waters of Atlanta, local match-up here at the National Championship. That's got to feel good to win a first-round match.   BO ANDREWS: For sure.  Any time you win it feels good, and I lost last year in the first round, so it's nice to get through this year.   PETE KOWALSKI: Now, as a new member, how much of an advantage do you have, and how much have you played lately in advance of the Amateur?   BO ANDREWS: Well, for sure, it's definitely an advantage.  I've gotten that question before.  I'm just trying to take advantage of having that advantage and make use of it. I think it's great because you get to see different winds, kind of prepared and played as much as I could, being a member. Today the wind picked up, and I think that was nice because I've seen that wind and I know how hard some of the holes can play and kind of told myself that pars are going to be pretty good.   PETE KOWALSKI: What's the number of times you've played Highlands since you've become a member?   BO ANDREWS: I think I played Highlands ten times since I've been a member and Riverside about three.   Q.  I know you got down quickly the first two holes and you squared it up pretty quickly and you were back and forth through the turn.  What kick-started you on that back nine to give you a big lead?  BO ANDREWS: Honestly I think it was on 11.  It was a really hard pin with downwind and being in the rough, but got a good number and shot right where we were trying to and had like a 30-foot slider and lagged it up about there about six inches right in the heart. So I was like, I got this, I know how to play this course and I know where my lines are and I can do this.  From there, it was a bunch of pars and looks at it, and missed one on 14.   Q.  You lost the ninth hole and came right back 10 and 11.  Was that the big momentum shift of the day?  BO ANDREWS: I think so.  Like I reiterate, every time you hit greens out here, it's good, and if you can hit good putts, you'll have a couple go in.  If not, you just kind of, stress-free, lag it up there pretty close and move to the next hole.   Q.  Was the course tougher today than it had been set up for the qualifying, the stroke play?  BO ANDREWS: I think just from the standpoint of the wind direction and-mile-per-hour of the wind.   Q.  Seth talked a little about the wind blew more today than it has the last couple days, and the air has been thicker with humidity, and today not so.  Did you feel that and did that change anything you did on the golf course?  BO ANDREWS: No, I think it just -- I'm pretty comfortable playing in wind.  I feel like I have great distance control so I know how far my clubs are going pretty much most of the time. So I kind of want it to blow some so I feel like I can hit it under it or hit it the right distance and maybe beat a couple guys.   Q.  What are your thoughts on potentially playing two matches tomorrow?  BO ANDREWS: I think it's great.  We played a bunch of 36 holes for school this past year in order to get ready for match play at the NCAA because they switched the format to 36 holes in one day, and Coach does everything for a reason, whether it's for NCAAs or for us to be in this position.  So I feel definitely ready.   PETE KOWALSKI: Bo, thank you very much.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT