NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: PHILLIES v DODGERS
October 16, 2009
Jonathan Broxton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Could you just give your thoughts on the Phillies, their lineup, facing them as a relief pitcher, what you see with their lineup?
 JONATHAN BROXTON: Well, they have a very good middle of the order right there with Howard Ibanez and Werth. 
 You've just got to be real careful and come out and throw strikes, and that's the big thing is throwing strikes, getting ahead of them. Then you can go to the chase zones.

 Q. Considering the short turnaround time from last night's to tonight's game, is it easier or harder to forget what happened?
 JONATHAN BROXTON: I know it's a short turnaround, but as a reliever you've always got to have a short turnaround. You've just got to make sure you're going out there and not thinking about last night and just go get 'em today. 

 Q. Do you approach this game now in the same way you would the regular season, or is it a whole different mindset now that you're in the playoffs?
 JONATHAN BROXTON: Well, depends on what the score is and what the situation. Pretty much I'm going to challenge them just like the regular season. But if it comes to a point where there's a guy on second and we've got a base open and one of their big hitters is up, I'm going to pitch him tough. 

 Q. Your numbers in the day versus the night are pretty dramatic. Do you have any theories on that?
 JONATHAN BROXTON: No, not really. I mean, I don't even know what the numbers are. 

 Q. You guys walked eight Phillies last night. Their lineup -- Colorado ran into that problem, too, especially in Game 3. What's different about their lineup that lends itself to them taking so many walks, and was it more you guys last night or more them in your opinion? 
 JONATHAN BROXTON: Well, they've got a great lineup. They're going to work the count. If we don't throw strike they're going to take the walks. 
 Last night we just had a down night and we've got to come back out today and pound the strike zone. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT