SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 8, 2015
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Well, you made a little bit of a move today.  
BOO WEEKLEY: I did the last hole there.   
 Q.  Did you make par?  
BOO WEEKLEY: I just made bogey.   
 Q.  Well, you got out of the bunker, right?  
BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah, I was there in two and --   
 Q.  Did you miss your putt?  
BOO WEEKLEY: I missed the putt.   
 Q.  I walked away and I thought I heard --  
BOO WEEKLEY: No, I lipped it out.  Yeah, we made a good move.  We feel good about it.  You know, it's just trying to keep it in front of me right now.   
 Q.  How many holes did you play yesterday?  Do you remember?  
BOO WEEKLEY: None.   
 Q.  None at all, okay.  
BOO WEEKLEY: I can't remember, man.  It was kind of like messed up.  We played yesterday morning, and we were --   
 Q.  Yesterday morning you played a few holes.  
BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah, we played a few holes and then we got rained out and went back out.  So we didn't even play yesterday, you see.  There you go.  We didn't even play.  What was yesterday, Saturday?  Yeah, we didn't even play Saturday.   
 Q.  How many did you have this morning?  
BOO WEEKLEY: None.  That was my first round since Friday.   
 Q.  Seems like a long time ago, huh?  
BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah, it does.  Like I said, I'm already lost.   
 Q.  What's it been like playing in all these different conditions?  
BOO WEEKLEY: I mean, that's just part of the South.  This time of the year you don't know if you're going to get good weather or you're going to get bad weather, and unfortunately we've had bad weather this week, a lot of rain.  The golf course has held up pretty good, considering as much rain as we've had.  I know they said a week before this rain came and it was in excellent shape, unreal.  It was fast and firm, and everything was perfect, you know, but you can't control Mother Nature, you know, so that's just part of it.   
 Q.  So you ended up 2 for today?  
BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah, 2-under right now through 9.   
 Q.  So that puts you a couple shots out of the lead?  
BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah, I'm two or three shots out.   
 Q.  Because Roberto dropped back a couple shots.  
BOO WEEKLEY: Oh, did he?   
 Q.  Yeah, he kind of came back.  There's a huge logjam.  There's about 15 or 20 of you guys all within a few shots.  What's tomorrow going to be like?  
BOO WEEKLEY: It just all depends on -- I don't know, that's tomorrow.  I've got to get through today first.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts on how do you pace yourself?  What do you do to play 27 holes?  Same old golf?  
BOO WEEKLEY: It's just golf.  You just get after it, do the best you can, chase it around out there and hope you come out a winner.   
 Q.  How is your game?  Is it a winning game right now?  
BOO WEEKLEY: It is right now.  I mean, the last -- that was my first bogey in 27 holes.  No, it was more than that.  36, so what was that?   
 Q.  Yeah, first in 45 holes.  
BOO WEEKLEY: First in 45 holes, yeah.   
 Q.  That's pretty good then.  
BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah, starting to hit the ball solid again.  We switched irons.  We've been struggling with some irons and we finally switched some irons, and we've got the new TaylorMades in and trying to get something a little more bounce on it, and I'm starting to hit it solid again and starting to hit it like I used to hit it.   
 Q.  What happened on 9 then?  
BOO WEEKLEY: The ball just run up the club face.  I drove it just in the left rough just a little bit, and it was sitting just a little high, and I thought it was going to be a perfect 9, and it just kind of run right up the club face, so it didn't have enough oomph to get it over that bunker, and it just hit and plugged in the bunker, and then I just chopped it out to about -- I don't know, it was about 10 or 12 feet there, 10 feet, and just lipped it out.  Just didn't have enough pace on it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT