PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2007
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   KELLY ELBIN:  Boo Weekley, ladies and gentlemen, in with a 5-under par 65 today in the third round of the 89th PGA Championship.  That 65 moves Boo into even par in his first PGA Championship. 
 Boo, great back nine at 31.  Congratulations. 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I played real well today. 
 KELLY ELBIN:  Comments on your round and go into birdies and bogeys you had. 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Kept in play today.  That's the difference in the last few days, if you can keep it in play, for me it's a lot easier to score here. 
 KELLY ELBIN:  Go through your card for us. 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  First three holes I just got it up-and-down a couple times, and then on the 4th hole I knocked it over the green, and I can't chip around these greens.  I ain't figured out how to do.  Whenever I do, I might be dangerous. 
 Then I birdied the par 3, hit 7-iron in there I think six feet below the hole and made it.  Then went par-par, and 9 I hit it about 15 feet left of the hole made a pretty good putt there. 
 11, hit it about eight feet above it.  Made it. 
 13, driver's 6-iron, middle of the green, two putt. 
 14 I hit it just on the front of the fringe and got a good bounce there.  Hit kind of a crappy putt and it bounced to the right and went in for me. 
 And then 15 hit a good shot, about seven feet below the hole. 
 Then parred 16. 
 And then 17 I did a little lob wedge in there about eight feet below the hole and made it. 
 And then, of course, 18.  Three wiggle. 
 KELLY ELBIN:  Let's open it up to questions for Boo Weekley, please. 

 Q.  I suppose you know as you're playing 18 what birdie there does for you, right, had somebody told you what 63 would have meant and all that since it had been shot yesterday? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No, I didn't know. 

 Q.  It would have matched the lowest score ever in a major championship, 63. 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Really, that would have been nice. 

 Q.  You're kidding me, right, you had no idea? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No, I was just trying to make par.  You try to make par, look where I ended up (laughter), trying to be safe. 

 Q.  Boo, since you won at Hilton Head, you've made the cut in the three majors you played since then.  You made the cut at THE PLAYERS, you played well at a couple of events like Arnie's tournament.  What are you learning from these big tournaments and how do you think it will help when you go to Augusta next year? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  What I'd like to say is par isn't a bad score.  It's not a birdie fest at every golf course.  I've learned in the majors that's how it's starting to pan out.  You have to keep it around par, you're keeping yourself in the game.  And here and there you make a couple birdies, you shoot 2- or 3-under one day and get yourself in contention. 
 And that's what I'm trying to do as I'm playing.  I'm learning more about how to accept just making pars.  Pars ain't bad for you, even making a bogey ain't bad for you sometimes. 

 Q.  When you lopped that first putt short on 18, looked like you said something to Sergio and to the crowd.  Can you share that with us? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Sergio asked me what I was fixing to do and he said, Do you want to trade?  And I said, no, I think I like what I got right here.  And then as I hit the putt and I said, well, maybe I should have traded.  After I hit my second putt as I was marking it, I looked over at him and I said, Maybe I should have traded you, you know. 

 Q.  Were you surprised at just how popular you proved at Carnoustie and how much the crowd still seemed to be getting behind you here again? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Yeah, I was very surprised over there for the people that would root for me.  I mean, being a foreigner, you know, I didn't know what to expect, especially coming over here for the first time.  I didn't know how the people would respond to me, being who I am. 
 And I reckon as long as you're being yourself, you can't go wrong there. 

 Q.  As you move forward, what do you know about the FedExCup and are you looking forward to that? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I don't know nothing about the FedExCup (laughter) and I just know I'm playing golf and that's all that matters to me. 

 Q.  Do you hope to find out? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Maybe in a couple of years (chuckling). 

 Q.  You'll be in it this year? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I can't hear him. 

 Q.  You'll be playing in those tournaments, right, the FedExCup stuff? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Yes, sir, I hope so. 

 Q.  But you don't know much about the formula or anything? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No, sir.  I never was good at math (laughter). 

 Q.  I've been around you for two consecutive weeks.  It seems like you benefit from your approach toward golf.  You're not one who thinks it's the end-all-and-be-all to life.  What's your thoughts on that?  Is your attitude helpful to you?  Do you ever get nervous or never get nervous? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I always get nervous.  That's what makes it fun.  You know, the butterflies.  If I quit having the butterflies, I'm done playing golf.  I mean seriously. 
 That's one thing, I do come out and want to play and that's the reason why I think the competitiveness gives us the butterflies.  I enjoy it. 

 Q.  After Carnoustie, you were talking about going home, going fishing, getting away a little bit, eating some real food, I guess.  (Laughter) so can you talk about what you did between Carnoustie and here and is this a little bit more your comfort zone to be south of the Mason-Dixon Line and sweating? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I like to sweat.  I like it hot.  The hotter the better, the way I feel about it.  And I didn't do nothing when I went home.  I just hung out at the house, me and the wife and my little boy, we went to the beach.  Just had a good time.  Fished and swam and played around. 

 Q.  Have you any ambitions to play in the Ryder Cup next year and do you know about that, have you followed it in the past? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  If they invite me to come play, I'll come play.  But, no, I really don't know a whole lot about it.  I've seen some clips of it.  I think Justin Leonard made a putt or something.  That's about the only thing I remember of the Ryder Cup stuff. 

 Q.  You said you didn't know about potential 63 and the record.  Would you have putted differently?  Would you have been more aggressive on that first putt? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Probably not.  No, I mean, if it was going to go in, it's going to go in.  We know.  One way or the other.  If it went it went.  If it didn't, it didn't. 

 Q.  You said you were actually -- you were playing for par.  You were playing it safe yet you still wound up with six or seven feet.  What did you read on that putt and what were you trying to do beyond playing it safe? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I was just trying to play enough break because I knew I had a lot of break in the first 20 feet of it and just trying to get it on the top of the ridge there and roll out to the hole.  I moved my big head and kind of flubbed it a little with the putter. 

 Q.  Are you starting to figure out that you can play with all these guys week in and week out?  For a guy who paid his dues to get here, you've been on a lot of leaderboards at a lot of very big tournaments all summer? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I know I can play with 'em.  It's just a matter of staying healthy.  Right now I got a little illness in my elbow.  I got tennis elbow and it runs down into my palm on my left side right now.  So if we get that healed up, there ain't no telling what can happen, you know? 
 KELLY ELBIN:  For the record, Boo has three Top-10 finishes this week including a win at the Verizon Heritage. 

 Q.  Can Tiger be caught?  Can you catch Tiger or are we looking at a race that's over? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I don't know.  The good Lord knows that answer.  I couldn't tell you, you know.  Anything's possible.  He's human, ain't he? 

 Q.  When you were growing up, you realized you had a talent to play golf, who were the players on Tour that you used to hero worship and watch? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I never really watched golf.  I honestly couldn't tell you.  That's just something that I've never done.  Still to this day I will go home and watch a little bit of golf, like if I've seen they caught a little bit of me on TV and maybe my friends Slocum or Bubba Watson or Joe Durant.  I just can't sit there and watch golf.  It's just not my cup of tea.  And I couldn't tell you if I had somebody that I looked forward to seeing out there when I was playing, when I was younger. 

 Q.  You had no interest in the pro game when you were learning to play the game? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No, sir. 

 Q.  You've said before that winning majors isn't really what drives you.  You just want to earn enough money to retire and go fishing.  When you have days like these, does it change your view of that at all?  Does it make you want more or less? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No, sir, I want to play 10, 12 years, whatever it takes to get enough money in my bank.  I'm done.  I love the game.  I get tired of the grind.  I get tired of being away from my family.  I get tired of being away from my friends and my heart is really set on -- I love to play the game, but my heart is really with hunting and fishing. 

 Q.  You don't really get a kick out of this kind of day? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No, I mean, I had a good day and it was fun.  But, I mean, what would be even funner if I'm sitting at the house catching about a 10-pounder (laughter).  That's about how you have to relate this day to.  That day is over.  This day is over with golf.  Tomorrow we'll see what it brings. 

 Q.  Do you know where you are in the Presidents Cup points list at all and what if Nicklaus called you on Monday and said, You're on the team, what would it mean to you? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  That would be great.  I don't know where I am on the points.  I haven't got a clue. 

 Q.  You've kind of established that you're not a golf historian.  You don't like to watch golf.  What got you interested enough in this to become as good as you are.  Who and what got you interested in golf? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I had a golf coach at the house.  I played every sport you could play growing up through high school as a kid.  And I got hurt in every one of them.  I figured I might want to pick up a sport that ain't so much where I don't get hurt as much.  I don't want to hurt myself, get hit with something. 
 Gene Howard was his name, the golf coach that taught me how to play.  And I kind of went off to college and then came back and went to a chemical plant and worked for three years there.  And then my buddy Keith Slocum and his daddy talked me into coming back out and playing.  They said, You've got too much talent; come out and try something a little different. 
 So they were laying off at the plant.  I took the layoff and I started playing golf.  And I played my first major event and I won it.  I was like, man, this is an easy way to make a living right here (laughter).  So I just kind of stuck with that.  Easy way of making a living. 

 Q.  What would that have been? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  That was the Emerald Coast Tour and it was at the Moors in Milton, Florida. 

 Q.  How much did you make that tournament, do you remember? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I think it was 2200. 

 Q.  You mentioned before that you're going to play for 10, 12 years until you have enough money to go hunting and fishing.  What's enough money? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I don't know.  I ain't got that far yet (laughter). 

 Q.  Are you able to fish when you're on the road and if so what are the best spots around Tour to go fishing? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I haven't fished in the last two years.  I mean, I've been thinking, I've been trying to take this a little more serious and get myself where I am at right now at this level and try to stay at this level and get better. 
 And I get to fishing, I'm kind of like you go weighing them out, where do I go practice today or do I go fish?  My heart is I'd much rather go fish.  That's why I leave that at the house and don't even worry about it. 
 KELLY ELBIN:  Would you talk a little bit about course conditions today, anything different or hole locations, anything different than the first couple of days? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I thought some of the holes today were a little more accessible.  I thought you could be able to get to him with middle irons like I think it was 15 -- 15 was pretty accessible today that you can get to.  There was a bunch of them out there, if you have got your irons dialed in, you can go low. 
 KELLY ELBIN:  Boo Weekley in with 65 at the PGA Championship. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT