WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 2, 2007
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   NELSON SILVERIO:  Welcome, Boo.  2-under today, great way to start.  How's the golf course playing out there? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  It's playing fast.  It's playing pretty fast.  The greens are pretty soft.  The greens are pretty fast, too, though.  The rough is ridiculous.  You hit it off, you're lucky to get it to the green. 

 Q.  This tournament has got a bit of history to it, did you know anything about it before you showed up this week? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No, sir.  I had a chance to play it last year when I was in the Nationwide when it was at Stillwater or something in Cleveland.  Stonewater.  Yeah, we was up there playing last year and the guy I was staying with, Mr. Denny, said I could come down and play it if I wanted to.  I told him, that's all right, I'll see it next year. 

 Q.  You felt that? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Yes, sir. 

 Q.  You were playing that good? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I had a lot of confidence during that time, and I still have it now.  As long as I keep everything in front of me, the ball.  I hit the ball real well today.  It's just too bad that's all I got out of it is I hit it better than what I scored. 

 Q.  Did you come close to putting anything off the green? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No. 

 Q.  They're fast, though.  It seemed like the run out by the holes -- 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  They're pretty quick.  I left a lot of them short on the back side.  I had a couple putts inside ten feet for birdie, and I left a bunch of them short close to the hole.  Just because you're being so tentative you don't want to knock it four-foot by, five-foot by. 

 Q.  The Tour you're making this year, a couple weeks ago at Congressional, now you're here at Firestone, do you ever take time to walk around and look at the clubhouse and see what you see, soak up the history of places like that? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No, sir. 

 Q.  Would you ever think of doing something like that, or would that just not interest you at all? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  It don't really interest me.  I'm just here to do a job, and as soon as I'm done, I'm ready to go to the next spot and start all over again.  I know that's kind of bad for what I do for a living (laughing), but it's just -- that's just my nature.  I relate everything to hunting and fishing.  Everything I do, that's all I want to do.  It's my dream to become a hunting and fishing guide or something in that, and that's what I'm going to do after this is over with. 

 Q.  Is it going to be hard to walk away from this if you're pulling in $3 million or $4 million a year? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Not if I invest it right.  I mean, I've got a goal, and I set myself to that goal, and if I can get it there I'll be happy.  It ain't about the money.  Life is too short to be worried about the rest of it. 

 Q.  What kind of goal did you set? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Just it's a personal goal.  It's just stuff that I want to keep to myself there.  It's not a money goal; as soon as I make that much money, I'm going to go ahead and hunt and fish the rest of my life, it's just -- it's an overall goal where I want to be in my life 10 years down the road or 12 years down the road and say, okay, this is what I did, this is what I've done.  I've accomplished everything I've wanted to accomplish, and I'm ready to move on to something bigger and better. 

 Q.  Do you like playing golf? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I enjoy it, I really enjoy it.  I love the game.  I love the actual fact of competing.  I love to compete in about everything I do.  I just love it because it's just you.  There's nobody else to blame.  It's just all you. 

 Q.  That was a nutty question.  Do you look at it as a job, or when you go out there and play and think I'm playing golf today and they're paying me for it?  Free money this week, too. 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I don't look at it that way.  Just like if I would have clocked in and worked at that chemical plant, clock in, do my eight hours and I'm gone. 

 Q.  This is more fun, though, right? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  It's a lot more fun.  I love being outside. 

 Q.  Can you see some day buying a bunch of little cabins all over someplace?  Is that kind of part of your plan? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I would say my plan right now is starting in about two weeks, I'm going to buy about 200 acres in Alabama.  That's my goal, is to just buy up a bunch of land that I can to be able to hunt and fish on it.  That's one side of my dream. 

 Q.  What's the main thing you hunt in Alabama? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Everything.  We've got it all down there.  I think the good Lord started down there in the south and kind of worked his way around to everywhere else. 

 Q.  Do you think that your attitude in a way helps you in performance? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I think it does, yes, sir.  I get upset when I play golf.  When I am out there and I'm not hitting it good, I get upset on the golf course, I want to beat a hole in my bag or take an extra divot on the side.  But as soon as I walk off the golf course, it's over with. 

 Q.  What I mean is for you, like you're going to the PGA next week, right? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Yes, sir. 

 Q.  So it's another historic venue, but that will not affect you at all.  You could be playing down in south Alabama somewhere as far as the course goes; emotionally you're not going to get all uptight about the history of anything, and that's what I'm saying.  Do you think that helps you? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I believe it does.  I'm not much of a history -- I failed it in high school and college.  That's the reason why I reckon I'm not much on history (laughter).  I'd say it probably does help, yes, sir.  I really do because -- I don't know, I think there's too many other things going on in my mind than it is to worry about what happened in the past.  You can't change what happened in the past, you've just got to go out and do what's in front of me. 
 You know, some of it is pretty neat to hear about, especially when I was over in Scotland, what happened to Paul Laurie and that guy, whatever his name is.  That was pretty neat because I didn't know. 

 Q.  So you've never seen a Firestone ball on TV before you came? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I've seen it.  I've seen commercials of it and stuff like that.  I watch a little golf.  My friends in the league, Bubba, Joe, if they're coming down in the hunt I watch it, but I ain't going to just sit there and watch golf. 

 Q.  The land you're planning to buy, are you planning to turn that into like a game preserve, a hunting and fishing lodge place, or just use it yourself? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  It ain't going to be a lodge.  If we get some more land around it, yes, we might be able to put a lodge on it.  But right now you've got to camp on the Alabama River.  If it gets too hot during hunting season I jump in my boat and go down there and hunt and fish.  In the long run I'd like to get about 1,000 acres and build me a good pond out there and build me a little cabin on it and build hunting and fishing out there on the spot. 

 Q.  Some people in the south build these things and they tell people like me to come in and try to hunt and fish.  You wouldn't want to do that? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No, sir. 

 Q.  What's been the highlight of your hunting and fishing career? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Just being able to do it. 

 Q.  You don't talk about the biggest one I ever caught or the best -- 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I've got a couple on the wall.  I've killed a couple that I thought I should have mounted but I never mounted.  I know there's one out there bigger.  I'm going to get to go to Texas this year and go up to Illinois and do hunting there, and I know I'm going to kill a big one in either one of them spots. 

 Q.  Where are you going in Texas? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I couldn't tell you. 

 Q.  All this being said about you've got the cabin and the hunting preserve and you really don't care that much about the past history of golf but you like to compete, what would it mean for you to win this thing? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  It would be great.  I mean, it would be special.  I mean, a win is a win, it don't matter if it's here or next week or if it's at the Mississippi tournament.  You know, it's a win.  What's the difference? 

 Q.  Would you be bummed out if you finished 2nd? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No, I've got a good paycheck, I'm ready to go to the next tournament and see if we can win that one.  I don't look at it as -- like I said, I love to compete.  If I don't win, great.  If I do, whatever.  I'm going to go about my own way. 

 Q.  How much do you think back to not only winning at Hilton Head but the way you won? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  It was different. 

 Q.  Do you ever reflect on that at all? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No, sir.  I mean, it was just -- the Lord was with me that day.  You know, you chip in twice, that's just uncalled for and unheard of.  I mean, it was just my time. 

 Q.  What did your dad do for a living? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  My dad is a pharmacist. 

 Q.  Did your mom work, too? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  My mom was a nurse and then she retired from being a nurse and started working with my dad.  He's working with CVS. 

 Q.  You were in Britain for two weeks, right? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I was in Scotland. 

 Q.  It's kind of all the same.  So you do know your history (laughter).  What was the best thing about coming home?  What did you miss in those two weeks? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Getting to come home and go fishing.  That's what I did all last week.  We got home on Monday around I'd say 1:00, 2:00, went in there, washed my clothes, by 9:00 I was asleep, got up Tuesday, started right back.  We got all our stuff packed, got our jet skis ready, got our boats ready and went down to the beach and stayed down there the whole week fishing and having a good time. 

 Q.  What beach? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Navarra, Santa Rosa County. 

 Q.  What was the first good meal you had when you got home? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I couldn't tell you.  Oh, we went and had Mexican (laughter).  Then I had some fried chicken, a bucket of sweet tea. 
 NELSON SILVERIO:  On that note, Boo, thanks a lot. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT