THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2007
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Talk about today, two birdies, three bogeys, a nice finish on 18.   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  We didn't have a great game today.  We struggled off the tee today a lot and it was just -- out here you've got to drive the ball pretty straight and keep it in play and keep it kind of out of the wind.  If it gets in the air that wind is going to take control of it.  And we didn't do that a couple of times today.   
  
  Q.  How are you liking this kind of golf?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I like it.  It's very similar to how it is back home on the golf course I grew up on.  It's a lot shorter than the one I grew up on, but it's firm like this and it plays pretty fast.  You can bump it around the greens.  You can use any club you want around the greens, which is a good thing.  The putting surface here is really excellent.  They're a little hard to read sometimes, but they roll real good and they're real flat.   
  
  Q.  What's your impressions, you've been here a few days of the country, of the golf, of the people?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  The people are great.  I haven't run into too many -- I'm going to leave that one alone.  It's been nice getting to meet some people.  The golf course is great.  The atmosphere is great.  It's a bigger atmosphere than I thought it would be.   
  
  Q.  In what way?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Just a lot more people.  It's kind of like the U.S. Open back home.  I knew it was the British Open and everything, but I figured the way the weather was going to be there wouldn't be that many people out.  But today is a beautiful day, I almost blame them for not coming out today.  But yesterday was awful.   
  
  Q.  What didn't you know about Britain or Scotland before you came here?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I would say my family was from here.  That's all I knew.  I knew it was a long way from where I grew up.   
  
  Q.  Did they tell you much about it?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No.   
  
  Q.  Any background?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No, sir.   
  
  Q.  Where exactly is your family from?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I couldn't tell you that, neither.  But I know they're from here, south of here, down south on the border down there, I think.  That's all I know.  You'll have to ask my aunt.   
  
  Q.  Did you have a passport before this season?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I got one right at Christmas, you know, earlier this week.   
  
  Q.  A lot of people thought you had to have tattoos out there, you know that?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Yeah, I've heard.  I mean if I do, I've got them all the way up my leg and my back.  I ain't got no tatoos.   
  
  Q.  What about away from the course, the food, things like that here?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  It's rough.  It's been rough on that food.  It's different eating here than it is at the house.  Ain't got no sweet tea, and ain't got no fried chicken.   
  
  Q.  I thought you were a fish guy?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I've been eating a lot of fish.   
  
  Q.  Fried?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No, they've got the guy smoking some right over here, probably some of the best you'll ever eat.  Yes, sir, it was good.   
  
  Q.  Arbroath Smokies, you like those?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Oh, yes, sir, very good.   
  
  Q.  Is there anything new that's better than back home?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I can't go there.  (Laughter).  I don't know, sir.   
  
  Q.  What about driving around, is that putting you off?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I ain't driving.  I ain't driving nowhere.   
  
  Q.  Scary?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I think so.  On the wrong side of the road?  Yes, sir.   
  
  Q.  You were 4-under and you were tied for second place.  It's obviously a tough finish.  Did you know where you were on the leaderboard?  Were you disappointed coming in, in losing a couple?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I was disappointed in losing a couple.  I struggled all day hitting the ball solid.  We got away with a bunch of breaks today, hitting-wise, because I struggled off the tee and with my irons.  I just chip and putted it halfway decent today.   
  
  Q.  Rumor had it that you had to smuggle in a few cans of dip because you heard they didn't have it here.   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I didn't smuggle a few.  I brought a bunch.  I think about 20-something and my caddie brought like 30-something.   
  
  Q.  You're not going to run out, are you?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Nope.  Got six more to go.   
  
  Q.  You have three more days.   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  That's perfect.   
  
  Q.  Have you started thinking about this weekend and that you're in contention at the Open and what you can do?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No, I've just got to go out and play golf.  This weather can change any minute.  Like they said, tomorrow there's supposed to be some rain tomorrow.  It's going to be a totally different golf course than it's been the last two days, for me, anyway.   
  
  Q.  It's supposed to be a bad day tomorrow?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I don't know.   
  
  Q.  If the bad weather rolls in do you care whether it comes or not?   
 BOO WEEKLEY: All depends on how I'm playing or how I'm hitting it.   
  
  Q.  Can you kind of put your year into context for us?  You come off the Nationwide Tour, now you're in The Masters next year.  You're in the mix on the weekend at the oldest golf tournament in the world in a country you never visited.  It's kind of hard to believe, I think, for a guy from the Panhandle?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  It's hard to believe, but it was just a matter of time.  I'm a firm believer if you work at it and you keep trying and keep believing you're going to get where you want to go, especially in golf, if you work in the right direction.  And like me and my caddie, Joe, we worked hard last year, real, real hard, than I've worked in the last five years at it.  And that's the reason we're back at it this year.   
 And we're still working hard at keeping where we're going.  We focus on a lot more things now than I used to, I'd say, in the past.  We'd focus on different spots, where we have to hit it here, where we have to hit it there.  If we miss it, we'd at least leave ourselves a chance to at least make par.  That's the whole game, just keeping yourself from making those bad numbers.   
  
  Q.  The first time around in '02 you were just kind of overwhelmed by it all because you're a fish out of water, I would say?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I was pretty lost.  I was nervous.  I didn't think I belonged.  I didn't think I earned my credit to get there.  You come off the mini Tours and then you go straight to the PGA TOUR, I didn't think -- I felt like I belonged, I knew I belonged, but it was just a matter of working my way through it in my mind, getting myself set up for it.   
  
  Q.  What is your impression of this kind of golf before you came over here?  Is it different than you would have thought or is it like what you were expecting?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No, it's about the same.  It's just another golf course.  I just play golf.  However the golf course is set up is how we play it.  If we've got to bump-and-run it, we bump-and-run it.  If we have to fly it, we got to fly it, it all depends.   
  
  Q.  Did you watch any British Opens in the last say 15 years before you came here?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No.   
  
  Q.  On TV, you didn't?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  If I did it was flicking through it and stopping and wondering who it was or something like that, but I didn't.  I don't watch golf.  I watch it every now and then when my friends are playing it and stuff like that, but I don't care to watch it.   
  
  Q.  There wasn't a curiosity how -- British as opposed to the PGA TOUR?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No.   
  
  Q.  Do you know about the previous Champions and previous great players?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No.   
  
  Q.  Paul Lawrie, you apparently played with him last week?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Yeah.  I kind of stuck my foot in my mouth there, didn't I (laughter), but I didn't know.  If you don't know, you don't know.  I hated I said what I said, especially with him just saying what he said a couple of days before that, he don't get no respect.  And then I say something like that, you know, it's like, wham, here's a slap in your head (laughter).   
  
  Q.  Have you watched television here?  What do you make of the television over here?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I don't watch much TV.   
  
  Q.  You can't get the race on Sunday?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No.   
  
  Q.  Are you a NASCAR fan?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Yes, sir.   
  
  Q.  Are you going to St. Andrews, the home of golf, when you finish here and have a game of golf?  It's only just down the road.   
 BOO WEEKLEY: I didn't know it was the home of golf.  I thought the home of golf was where I was from (laughter).   
  
  Q.  Have you developed an appetite for being abroad and playing abroad?  Would you like to visit other places in Europe?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I don't like to visit, I just go and do what I got to do and get home.   
  
  Q.  Had you been out of the country before you went to Mexico for the Cancún thing?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I've been to Canada once, but that ain't really like leaving.   
  
  Q.  You had the passport and all that squared away?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No, I didn't get one until I went to Mexico.  You can drive across to Canada.   
  
  Q.  And Mexico?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  And Mexico, too.  But you might need a passport there.   
  
  Q.  Jim Furyk was out in some of the local pubs last night.  Are you thinking about going out with a drink and mixing with some of the locals?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No, probably not.   
  
  Q.  They'd love to meet you.   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Yeah, I'm pretty sure they would (laughter).   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT