AT&T CLASSIC
May 15, 2007
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Boo, for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center at the AT & T Classic.  Currently you are 11th on the FedExCup points standing, and you've had a couple good weeks here lately.   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I've played well, yeah.  I haven't really drove it that well, but, you know, I've got it done.   
 JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  What do you think about, this tournament used to be before The Masters, and now they've moved it to May, and from the looks of it the weather is definitely going to cooperate, but the strength of field is a little bit down from previous years.   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I didn't know it was before The Masters.  I really don't keep up with golf.  But I think probably the reason why the field is a little down is because we played THE PLAYERS last week at TPC and a lot of them guys are getting ready for Colonial and all of that.  That's the reason why I think a lot of them didn't show up.   
  
  Q.  What about yourself?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I like the golf course.  The golf course is in good shape right now.  It's pretty firm out here.  The greens are real firm.  They're rolling real nice.  I'm pretty sure by the end of the week if we don't get rain like they say on Wednesday, it's probably going to be firm and fast.   
  
  Q.  This is your second time around on TOUR.  Do you feel more at ease, more prepared, more than the first time out here?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Yes, I'm a lot more prepared.  I spent '02 out here, that was more of just a learning thing for me.  And going to the Nationwide Tour, that's a great place to play, learn a little bit more about yourself and your game, you know, how to make it work.  I come out here this year knowing that I belong out here, and I know I belong.  It's just a matter of keeping my self-confidence and my esteem going forward and believing in what I'm doing.   
  
  Q.  Talking about confidence, the competition is so great out here.  Is your confidence up?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  You know, not really.  We go to -- it's just a golf course, you know what I mean?  And we're all human.  So some days you've got your game and some days you don't.  You just go out and play the best you can play.  If it's not that good that week, it's just not that good that week.   
  
  Q.  What happened early in the year, that would affect a lot of people, but you handled it well and came back from it and ended up winning.  Was that hard, to stay positive after the experience, and how was that leading up to the time you won?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  It was hard to lose.  It's always hard to lose, especially when you've got it right there in your fingertips.  But I figure it was a plus.  It was a learning thing there, too, you know?  All of last year, I either had the lead or was leading going into the last hole, you know, and lost it then.   
 But it's just learning.  You've got to take it to the positive.  Everything has a positive, and that's what you've got to believe.   
  
  Q.  What are your thoughts on the FedExCup?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I really ain't figured it all out yet.  I'm just going to play golf and we're going to let the numbers sort itself out, you know what I'm saying?   
  
  Q.  Do you think it's good for the game?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  From what I understand it is, yes.  I believe it's going to be a good system once we get everything established and all the small details put out there in front of us.   
  
  Q.  You're kind of a good ol' country boy, do you draw kind of a good ol' boy crowd in the gallery?  Do you have that kind of gallery do you think?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Sometimes, yes, sir.   
  
  Q.  How does that show itself?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Well, you hear guys out there, "Hey, man, what kind of dip you got?  Or, "Hey, what you doing?  How did you get Mossy Oak on your shirt?"  I'm a big hunting fan, and they're a big hunting company, and it's just good to have friends, which I am friends with the owner, and a lot of guys that work with Mossy Oak.  Like the Bass Pro Shops, I'd love to have them on my shirt, too (laughter).   
  
  Q.  Kind of a related topic, one of the signature things here is the gallery has the hush y'all signs for the gallery.  Does noise in the gallery bother you at all, or how do you react to it?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  The noise don't bother me, as long as it's continuous.  When they tell you to hush and then all of a sudden you get ready and somebody starts a big roar -- not a roar, but just like a bunch of noise comes out of the background, that kind of gets in your head a little bit.  But as long as it's continuous, I ain't got no problem with it.   
  
  Q.  Why is it that other athletes can perform in a noisy environment, and in golf it's different?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I don't know.  I mean, it don't bother me that much.  It's just the fact, like I said, it's because you're kind of concentrating and focusing on one thing, where out there, I think in all the other sports you're focusing on all these other things.  You've got a ball, you're dribbling it down court, it ain't just you out there dribbling that thing.  You're moving.  Golf ain't a moving sport.  In fact, you're standing still.   
  
  Q.  The fishing outing they had for players today, did you take part in that?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No, I'm taking part with y'all, how's that?  I'm blowing off the fishing for y'all.   
  
  Q.  That's the first time?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No, not really.  I'm focusing on golf.  I did last year, I kind of put my rods up.  On the Nationwide Tour the last couple years I traveled with my rods and my fishing gear, and last year I decided I'm just going to put them up, focus on golf, focus on what I need to work on and just work hard at it, and that's what I've done this year, too.  I've had a lot of opportunities to go fishing, and I decided I'd much rather focus on what I've got right now here.   
  
  Q.  Have you spent any time this week at Bass Pro Shops?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I've spent more time in there than I have sleeping this week, how's that?   
  
  Q.  Are you a good enough fisherman that you could be a professional fisherman?  Are you that good?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I don't know, I'd have to do a little more practicing.  If you would have asked me about two years ago I would have told you yes, sir, because I fished a whole bunch two years ago.   
  
  Q.  You and Heath kind of grew up together in the same area.  Do you have the same interests as Heath, fishing and hunting?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Oh, yes, sir, he's just a little more shier than I am.  He keeps a little bit more to hisself, but he's a great guy.  And then you've got Bubba, and he don't do nothing.  He'd much rather lay around the house, I reckon.  I don't know what he does.   
  
  Q.  We were talking to people about keeping yardage books.  Do you keep your own yardage book or does your caddie keep that to look at distances and do you compare what you learned this time compared to last time?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  He does all the yardage books.  He keeps them in a shoebox, and we keep them together.  We put our own notes in there, so the following next year, when we come back here again, we don't have to work as hard out here on this golf course.  Like this morning, I got here about 6:30 this morning or 7:00, and we didn't do nothing but just walk on the golf course and just hit putts on the greens and chip around the greens just to get the feel of them.   
 I like to write all my stuff on the greens, my slope, which way it's breaking left, it's fast going this way, slow going this way.  I write all that in my book, so when we get ready to play there in a tournament, we ain't out there second-guessing ourselves.  So that's what I did today.   
  
  Q.  Do you use range finders for distances?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Yeah, we do.  We do all that.  He shot that Monday.  We drove up Sunday afternoon when we got through playing down in Jacksonville, and we drove up here and then he got up yesterday morning at 7:00, and then I met him out here and we shot some yardages, get the elevation changes.   
  
  Q.  That's part of the game, isn't it?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No, people don't know how much time and effort we put into it, especially the caddies.  I have to say, they work the hardest.  They don't get enough recognition for what they do.  They are the heart and soul of the player.  We ain't gotta do nothing but pull the club.   
  
  Q.  Is that the same caddie you've had for a few years?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I've had him since last year.  He just got back on my rack, and I've had him for about four or five months prior to that.  He wasn't doing nothing but laying around the house.   
  
  Q.  Did you ask him what he was doing while he was laying around?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I've asked him a few questions, but I kind of keep that to him.  If he wants me to know, he'll let me know some stuff, but I don't get into that personal side of it, you know?   
  
  Q.  Do you sense that he really wants to talk about it?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No.  There's questions you can ask him, but some of the stuff, he don't like to mention it.  He kind of keeps it -- he's quiet, too, he likes to keep to hisself about all that, you know?   
  
  Q.  Calc's caddie came out, and it's not the same thing, but he was in jail for quite some time and he came back out and he gave him his bag and got a win for him.  Is there a loyalty between players and caddies that you see out here, that sort of bond?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I'd have to say there probably is, but I haven't been out here long enough to actually know all the caddies and know all the loyalties, who's working with who and how long they've worked with each other.  I really couldn't tell you that.  I don't know that answer.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel if you get somebody that's working for you and doing a good job, you -- some guys change on a whim.  Are you more a loyalty type of guy?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No.  If you ain't getting it done together, you've go to spice it up a little bit every now and then.  You can't just stay with what you've got.  You've got to make a change somewhere.  If it ain't working, it ain't working, so let's go move on and try to find -- and if it does, you find somebody else and it don't work with him, then you know it ain't that combination.   
  
  Q.  Did you watch John Daly much growing up?  I'm just curious, as a young player when you look at his career, what do you see?  Are there cautionary tales there, too, for a young player to take away?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I couldn't tell you who John Daly was until -- I don't really keep up with golf.  I don't watch golf.  If it ain't hunting and fishing, I don't --   
  
  Q.  So you watch ESPN on Saturday mornings?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Sometimes.  I'll keep up with a little bit of sports and stuff, but I don't watch much golf, man.  It's not my cup of tea.  I just play it.   
  
  Q.  I'm sure they'll love to hear that at the TOUR.   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Oh, you know, everybody you ask the question to, you're going to get an answer.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No, it's just, I mean, I'm not playing.  I'd much rather be playing.  I mean, if I do watch golf -- like some of my buddies like on the Nationwide Tour, Heath, Bubba, Joe Durant, if them guys are in the lead or the top of the lead, I'll turn it on and watch it then.   
 But I just play this game for work and what I do.  When I leave the golf course, I don't think nothing about it, I don't want to know nothing about it.  It's just over with.  That's the way I feel when I'm at home.  I mean, I've got other things to do besides sit in front of that TV.   
  
  Q.  You said you follow other sports.  Do you have any other --   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  College football, college baseball, stuff like that.  I like all college, anything that has to do with college because I can relate myself with all the mishaps that's happened out there with them, a little more to me.   
  
  Q.  When you say you follow college, is there a particular college?  And the most famous fisherman that I can think of on the TOUR over the last few years has been Bruce Lietzke, and he's always said he plays golf so he can fish.  Is that a similar attitude that you hold?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No, I don't play golf just so I can fish.  I play it because I love the game.  I enjoy the camaraderie that comes with the game.  My favorite football team is Alabama.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No, but I have some cousins that are there.   
  
  Q.  Who do you make of that?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I think they're crazy showing off all of them people there.  But it's going to be exciting for us, you know?  I don't think this year is going to be a decent year, but I think next two, three years we might be able to do something, contend again.   
 JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Boo, for joining us.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT