VERIZON HERITAGE
April 15, 2007
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE: Boo Weekley, thank you for joining us.  You got in one hole today, managed to get a par out of that.  Just a couple comments on the day, kind of an odd day when you actually move play to the next day because of wind. 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Yeah, I ain't never been a part of that.  It's the first time I think I can recall playing that it was just windy.  I know, was it in Palm Springs early this year, it was pretty windy, but I wasn't there. 

 Q.  Tell us about 17, what the yardage, what club did you use? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  17, I don't know.  I didn't get to it today.  I got through 1, and I was standing on No. 2 tee box. 

 Q.  What was it like on No. 1? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  It was pretty tough.  I mean, I hit driver.  You know, you've kind of got to keep it low.  Once it gets outside the trees the wind just takes over.  You ain't got no control over it.  That's the good thing about the front side is it is kind of closed in until you get to 16, 17 and 18.  But if you hit the ball low kind of like I do, it kind of plays to our advantage. 

 Q.  After you played 1, did you expect play to be stopped after you kind of got through that first hole? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I figured it was going to be tough because I figured 16, 17 and 18 there ain't no way you can keep the ball on the green.  I've heard some stories in the locker room, and it was pretty ridiculous, really.  Especially they said when you walked up on 18 and you had to start it out over the water just to keep it in play. 

 Q.  Does something like that scare you when you think you've got to start it out over the water just to keep it in play on 18? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  It doesn't me because I like to cut it every now and then.  It just helps me because I can aim it out there and just know I'm going to cut it.  It's just some people I reckon when they hit them draws is when they have problems. 

 Q.  If tomorrow the conditions are similar and they're saying it might not be as bad but they're saying it's going to be 20- to 30-mile-an-hour winds, does that give you an advantage over some of these guys? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I wouldn't say it's going to give me an advantage, but it is to my favor.  You know, me and like Joe Durant and a couple other guys that hit the ball kind of low, keep it in the trees, but the only problem is you've still got some of these holes that got trees protecting around the greens.  You know, you hit it low, you've got to worry about hitting it in them then. 

 Q.  There isn't anything you can do about it, but how does this affect your focus?  You're contending for the golf tournament, then today you get suspended, now you have to wait until tomorrow to get it going? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Actually it's going to help me because I didn't get much sleep last night.  We stayed up too late playing cards (laughter), and tried to go to sleep and the air-conditioning -- the place I was staying, the air-conditioning was broke so I had to sleep with the windows open and all that storm came through and it got to blowing the shutters around where I was staying at, so I didn't get much sleep.  At least tonight I'll get some sleep. 

 Q.  Will you change your clubs at all tomorrow, put any other clubs in the bag knowing you have this wind? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No, I ain't going to -- not unless it's a bazooka and it shoots it straight (laughter).  That would be about the only thing I'd change.  But no, I ain't changing nothing. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT