SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 4, 2015
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MARK STEVENS: Like to welcome Boo Weekley.  Just got done playing the Pro-Am.  Why don't you talk a little bit about the course and how it's looking this year?   
BOO WEEKLEY: The course is great considering all the rain they've had.  It's amazing that it's really starting to dry out, but it's still got a lot of wet spots.  It's playing long right now.  It's playing a lot longer than it did last year once it got through all the rain it had.  It's still in great shape.  Greens are awesome.   
 Q.  Finished T-2nd here last year.  This is the first year we played Country Club of Jackson.  What was it about the course that fit your eye and that you liked?  
BOO WEEKLEY: It's kind of tree lined.  It's kind of traditional.  You look at all the other golf courses that's before they started Tiger-proofing it and making it silly golf instead of actually golf.  It's a golf course that you can actually go out and tee it up, and you don't have to hit driver on every hole.  You can actually work the ball a little bit around the golf course and makes it fun to play it.   
 Q.  You had a great week here last year.  I think you had a great Sunday, shot 66.  You mentioned the fact this is a traditional style golf course.  Do you play better -- Colonial is another one obviously you won there -- the old school, does it kind of fit your eye better?  Tell us why you play better?  
BOO WEEKLEY: It fits my eye.  It's something that I grew up on.  I mean, when you've got to shape your shots and you've got to pick a spot and say I've got to start it here, but it's got to end up this distance.  If it goes too far it's in the woods and in the trees.  It's kind of like the same thing out here.  But at the same time as wet as it is out there right now that don't even matter.  The ball's going 260 off the tee and it's plugging.   
I hit 3-wood in last year and I remember I hit 7-iron, 6-iron into 18 and so far I've played it twice, yesterday and today, and I hit 3-wood into it.   
 Q.  Just to follow up, obviously the course conditions are a little bit different because of the rain that they've had.  
BOO WEEKLEY: A little?  They're like 40 yards different.   
 Q.  Give us your opinion.  Obviously you've had a chance to play it, compared to last year, how do you think that's going to affect scoring and the play?  
BOO WEEKLEY: It all depends on what the TOUR does.  If it's ball-in-hand, it's still going -- I mean, I still think it's going to get to 14, 15.  If it's not ball-in-hand, it's liable to be 3.  There ain't no telling.   
Because you've got rain coming in Friday, so that's our whole key.  We're looking ahead of time, Friday or Saturday, this rain's going to come back in.  You're looking at probably another inch, inch-and-a-half of rain.  You have to play in it and so you could be at 3-under to win this place.  I could see that.   
 Q.  How have you come to view the wraparound season and the importance of trying to get out to a big jump in the fall?  
BOO WEEKLEY: Honestly, this wraparound season sucks.  It does, seriously.   
 Q.  It's long?  
BOO WEEKLEY: It's just, it's stupid.  I still ain't figured out this FedEx -- what does this FedExCup stuff do?  It ain't doing nothing, but it is what it is.  It's supposed to be the players tour.  It's Tim Finchem and them's tour is what it is.   
It's aggravating having to play this much, but yet it's important to come out and try to get a good start.  I mean, it's good for the rookies, I think.  It gives them something they can up can out and get their feet wet before they actually get into the bigger tournament.  I think that's a good thing.   
 Q.  Does it just feel like a warn out extension?  
BOO WEEKLEY: It's just golf after golf after golf.  Ain't no time for hunting and fishing, man.  You know, you've got to come in here and bring my rods over here to go fishing, but you can't go fishing because you get out there and next thing you know somebody's aggravating you, and you can't actually enjoy going fishing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT