THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 4, 2007
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CHRIS REIMER:  We welcome Boo Weekley.  Boo, an interesting day today.  I think at the end of it though, if we told you that you would be in a playoff tomorrow for the tournament, you probably would have taken it.   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Yeah, knowing after 140 of us gone now, with four of us, yeah, I'd have taken it.   
 CHRIS REIMER:  Just talk about your day, and 17 and 18.   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  The nerves just got me on 18.  You know, it's been a long time since I've been in contention, I mean to, win, and this is all a dream for all of us out here to play.  Just the nerves got me.   
 CHRIS REIMER:  Fans are behind you; that or they were booing you, one or the other.   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  They were pulling for me.  (Laughing).   
  
  Q.  That putt, did you see the last putt, did you see a certain line that wasn't there, or what were you trying to do with that putt?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I was trying to hit it inside-left and we had just a little thing in front of us, a little spike mark.  I just hammered it.  I mean, the nerves, I was just trying to die it in there, because it was downhill and going to break a little right there.  I hit it just -- well, actually not a little too firm but way too firm.   
  
  Q.  What was going through your mind right before that?  When you say "the nerves" got you, are you --   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I was shaking.  I ain't going to lie about it.  I mean, I was shaking like a leaf.   
  
  Q.  What were you thinking then?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Just make a good stroke.  That's all I was trying to do.  I made a good stroke.  I just hit it way too hard.   
  
  Q.  Is it hard not to think about how much this putt can change you?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No.  I was just focusing on getting that ball in the hole and turning around and waving to everybody.  (Laughter).   
 But no, I really wasn't even thinking about that.  I was just thinking about making this putt, make sure I make a good stroke.  I made a good stroke.  I just hammered it like I said.   
  
  Q.  What was your approach going into the playoff, was there enough time to gather yourself?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Yeah, I was still aggravated.  I'm still aggravated right now about it.  But this ain't the first time it's happened to me for a win.  I've missed on a Nationwide Tour event and did it in a bunch of mini-tour events.  It just happens, it happens to all of us.  Look at Tiger; he missed one earlier this year.   
  
  Q.  Is it good that maybe you get to gather yourself at night and start again tomorrow?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I reckon.  I mean, I don't know.  I'm just going to go home and do the same thing I've been doing for the last seven nights.   
  
  Q.  What will your approach be in the playoff tomorrow when you've got four days?  You're going to start on 10, I believe.   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Just hope the wind ain't blowing in my face.  But then again, it would be all right, too, because you know -- I don't know.  I'm just going to go out and approach it the same way I would approach it if it was a regular shootout.   
 Try to watch, make sure, you know, if they miss it left, I'm just going to try to hit to the center of the green and an on until I get a perfect yardage where I feel comfortable that I can fire at the pin or something.   
  
  Q.  Do you think you'll be able to sleep tonight?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No, I ain't going to have no problem sleeping.   
  
  Q.  Did you know right away that it was too hard?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No, I didn't know.   
  
  Q.  Is it hard to be really careful with your score card in the scorer's tent when you know you've got to rush back out to play a playoff hole, it's getting dark and all sorts of things are going on?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No.  I just -- hey, I keep up with all my stats and everything else, too, on my score card.  So I ain't got no problem with it.   
  
  Q.  You said that you don't look at leaderboards.  When did you know that you could win with a par there?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  When we come by that floating dock out there again.   
  
  Q.  That's when you knew you took the lead?   
 BOO WEEKLEY:  That's when I knew, yes, sir.   
 CHRIS REIMER:  Thanks so much, Boo. Good luck.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT