MAYAKOBA GOLF CLASSIC AT RIVIERA MAYA - CANCUN
February 23, 2007
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  You followed a 64 yesterday with a 67.  Any noticeable differences? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I think the wind was stronger on certain shots, certain holes today, like for instance 1 was a little more into the wind today.  2 played a little down.  But yeah, there was a couple of shots that were a little different than yesterday just because of the conditions of the wind. 

 Q.  Overall was the wind blowing harder today -- 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Give or take a little, yes.  I don't think it was affecting as much today as it did yesterday on certain shots. 
 The pins were pretty good today.  I thought they were a little tougher than yesterday, the pins were.  You know the way they have got them set up with the wind.  I think it's a little tougher today, just the way they had the pins set up. 

 Q.  Can you just talk about your background? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Well, I hit it real good yesterday, solid.  I made, you know, eight birdies and made one silly mistake, one bad swing and made a double and that was yesterday. 
 Today I kind of struggled a little bit on the front side, actually about the first 13 holes, just trying to hit my irons solid.  You know, that was a difference in yesterday and today shooting 6-under and shooting 3-under today.  Because I made, what, two bogeys on the front side and both of them were just two bad swings. 

 Q.  (Did things start to turn on 13)? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Yeah, I felt like I made one good swing and then everything kind of started clicking together.  Like, all right, there's that swing I've been looking for.  I hit some good shots coming in. 

 Q.  Do you mind taking us through your clubs? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  2 I think was an easy 9-iron and I hit it about 15 feet just right of the hole. 
 4, I hit a bad shot, I hit a good drive down the middle and I pull hooked my next shot over on the fringe.  I made about a 35-, 40-footer there, one of them ones that you ain't supposed to make. 
 9, I made probably a 25-footer there, 25-footer down the hill. 
 Then I 3-putt No. 11.  I drove it on the green there and then 3-putted it.  It couldn't have been playing more than 230 I think.  I don't know how far I hit it.  But it was playing long, whatever the yardage is, 370 or something, I don't know. 
 13, I think that was the par 5.  I hit driver, 3-iron just over the back of the green, chipped it up to about three-foot and tapped it in there. 
 15, I hit 8-iron just right of the hole probably about six-foot. 
 17, I hit lob-wedge in there from about -- I think it was about 75, 80 yards.  Just spun it back off the front, almost off the front of the green and made about a 15-, 20-footer there. 
 Some holes I hit it pretty close and some holes I didn't. 

 Q.  You're at the top of the leaderboard midway through the round, is there any change of strategy, do you see yourself going into the weekend now that you're secure atop the leaderboard? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No.  Just go out and try to make real good swings like I did coming down the stretch.  I mean, just -- the way that wind blows out there, you've got to hit the ball solid.  Because if you don't hit the ball solid, it's going to get up in the wind.  It's got just a little bit of curve on it and any direction is going to make it go two times, three times farther than where it should go. 

 Q.  (How is your Spanish)? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I took Spanish twice in high school.  I never got above 50 in grades.  I flunked right on out of Spanish.  I reckon I'd have to keep taken it.  That's why I couldn't go to school in Florida. 

 Q.  What do you mean you took it twice? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I took it my ninth grade year of high school and took it my tenth grade year of high school.  Never passed at all.  Just in the State of Florida, you've got to have it to go to school. 
 Like where I live at right outside of Pensacola, there's a college called South Alabama, which they allow Floridians in as the residential person, and for that to happen, you had to have a foreign language.  Well, I couldn't go to school there.  Because me and Heath Slocum, who plays on the PGA TOUR out here, which he's not here this year.  That's where he went to college at and was trying to set up a duo where me and him could go together at the same college.  But it ends up being, I didn't have Spanish.  (Laughter) 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT