PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2015
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about the round.
BOO WEEKLEY: It was great.  Thank you.  (Laughter.)
No, it was solid.  I played good the first day, just didn't make the putts.  Then yesterday I made some putts, and then today I finally got the putter working.  It was a good day.
Q. What was the turnaround with the putter?
BOO WEEKLEY: I don't know, I think just couldn't get the speed right.  We had four 3-putts so far this week.  I think just right now my speed's just been just a little bit off, and today the speed -- we came out a little early today and practiced a little bit on speed and it showed.
Q. When did you know that it was going to be a good putting day for you?  At what hole?
BOO WEEKLEY: The very first one.  I had about 35 feet and I lagged it up there.  (Laughter.)  So I could tap it in.  To me that's pretty good. (Laughter.)
Q. How about the conditions?
BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah, no, the conditions are good.  It ain't blowing like it has the first two days, of course.  It was a little softer after the rain we had.  The fairways wasn't running out quite as much.  Plus this is a different wind than we have had the first two days too.  So it made it, it made the golf course -- I think some of the holes that we had the prior first two days were a little harder today versus a little easier, like the par-5s, I thought all of them were reachable now with the wind like they were.
Q. Are you a guy, have you tried a million different deals, putting-wise, equipment, different ways, or do you just stick with what you do?
BOO WEEKLEY: Well, my guy I work with now, my caddie, David Robinson, he is a real good putter, and he played the mini tours and he played on the WEB.COM, so he's got me to change up a little things and we started practicing like 4-footers, 6-footers and then doing speed drills and stuff like that, because he said if you can make these 4-, 6-footers, you can make 75 percent of them, you're going to be ahead of the game.  So, I used to think that I'm just going to hit it closer.  But out here you can hit it always close.
Q. How about mentally?  As you're moving up the ranks, how do you keep focused and keep going?
BOO WEEKLEY: I'm going to go fishing this afternoon.  So that will take a lot of stress off.  I don't know, it's just golf.  They can't kill you and eat you out here.  It is what it is.  If you play good, you play good.  If you play bad, you play bad.  You just go to the next tournament and hope that you learn from your mistakes from last week.
Q. I think you kind of started the exact same way in 2010 here.  You didn't play a great first round, decent on Friday.  Is this the kind of golf course you need to play a couple times before you get competitive?
BOO WEEKLEY: I think it is, yeah.  Just like in 2010, though it was so burned out.  It was so fast.  The golf course was fast, the wind blew pretty hard the whole week we were here.  So, I think it's a little more easier with the wind not blowing like it is.  You can tell by the scores.  But at the same time, the greens, the greens are phenomenal.  If you can get on the green from like 30 feet, you can make it.
Q. Over the years have you let the putting drive you nuts or are you still able to kind of compartmentalize?
BOO WEEKLEY: When I walk off that 18th green, it's over with.  It's time to go do something different.  Whether it's fishing, drinking a beer or doing something.
Q. What are you fishing for?
BOO WEEKLEY: I don't know what they got out there in that big old lake.  We're going to find it, though, I can tell you that now.  We're going to find a couple things anyway.  I'll probably run into my psychiatrist when I'm out there.
Q. Did the crowd get behind you here today?
BOO WEEKLEY: They got pretty good.  Of course, there wasn't a whole lot of people following.  They were stationed there and plus we had Phil behind us, so that made it easier because people were waiting on Phil to come.  So they were going to cheer me on since they were there.  So that's pretty good.
It's easier today, but people still shouldn't think it's easy out there.  There's a lot of ways you can make a high score.  There's a lot of ways.  I drove the ball good today.  And if you drive the ball good on this place, it makes it more accessible.
Q. Any plans?
BOO WEEKLEY: Just another day tomorrow.  I've got to get through with this one, first.
Q. What happened on 18?
BOO WEEKLEY: Well, I snap hooked it and it went into the bunker and I was up against one of them drains that's in there.  It was kind of like a 200-yard shot to carry over all that scruff and it just wasn't worth it.  So we took a wedge out and chipped it out sideways.  The worst you can make is a bogey.  That's what I was thinking, the worst I can make is a bogey.  I don't want to make a double.  That really knocks you down.
Q. How much did you have in?
BOO WEEKLEY: I think it was 116 yards.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT