FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 11, 2015
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  BOO WEEKLEY:   I'm happy the way I played.   I just got a little low there at three holes, kind of made one bad swing, kind of couldn't get out of that for like three holes, and finally I kind of made another swing, oh, here we go, we're back to how we were playing earlier, and just didn't make no putts coming down the backside.   I had a good one the last few holes.

Q.   Overall a good start.   As you look at the conditions, I know it's hot, not a lot of wind out there, but the way the course is playing, are you happy with the 67 when you look up at the leaderboard right now?
BOO WEEKLEY:   Yeah, you got to take it.   You can shoot under par around this place because this place here can sneak up and bite you at any moment.   They've got some pins tucked in places that you got to be careful what you're doing.

Q.   For you, though, you've had some success here, you've had some runs.   I know you want to get to the top of the leaderboard, but as you progress to Friday, as you mentioned, anything in the red?
BOO WEEKLEY:   Anything in the red as long as you want to get to the weekend.   You know, the history of this tournament, you know, everybody in the front run get up through 10 11, 12, all of a sudden, it kind of stalls out.   You want to get yourself -- get yourself close to that number and maybe you can do something from there for the weekend.

Q.   Boo, down in Alabama they're getting PGA TOUR events.   How nice is it going to be able to play in that, Robert Trent Jones Golf Trail?
BOO WEEKLEY:   For me close to the house, it's about two and a half -- about three hours at my house to a tournament.   Pretty good to be able to go up -- be home, a home track tournament for me.   My family be able to come up and my boys ride up.   It will be fun.

Q.   How often have you played those courses?
BOO WEEKLEY:   I've played that one a long time ago.   It's been probably about eight, nine years ago, I think, is the last time I teed it up there.   But it's just another golf course.   Got to go out there and do your practice rounds and do what you got to do and just get ready for the tournament.

Q.   What do you think it's going to be able to do for the state for them to be able to get a high profile event like that?
BOO WEEKLEY:   I think it's going to be good.   They got the Women's Tour down in Mobile, Alabama.   I think it's great the PGA TOUR finally stepped up and came to Alabama to play.   I think it's going to be a good tournament and a good turnout.   I'll be surprised how many fans and people going to come from Birmingham, Tuscaloosa, so all of them from south Alabama.   It will be a good event. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT