ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 26, 2015
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Boo, book ended sort of weekend.   Started with 64, 65 today.   Good golf this week.   
    BOO WEEKLEY:   It was good, man.   I'm not upset by no means.   I gave myself opportunities on the last two holes, you know, to kind of get in there, and just unfortunate.   I had some spike marks in front of me that kicked my balls, but it's all good.   You know, golf, you can't complain, you're finishing Top 5 out here with the best in the world, it's pretty good.   
   
 Q.   You made almost everything today, and then those two putts coming in.   I know that that one on 17, that was the big one after you hit that great shot in there.   You say the spike mark kind of threw it off for you?  
    BOO WEEKLEY:   Yeah, I had to go right over the edge of it, and it knocked it dead left right out of the gate, and then same thing on 18 there.   I had to take it right over the right edge this time and just knocked it dead right right out of the gate.   You know, it just happens, I mean it could be the other way around, you know.  
   
 Q.   This is going to be your best finish in 2015.   What do you take away from this week?   I know the new shafts.   Obviously you found something there with your irons, but anything else that you found this week that you're going to take forward?  
    BOO WEEKLEY:   Just the way I plan, man.   I'm positive, you know, me and my boy, David Robinson and my coach Scott Hamilton, we've been working hard trying to get it going in the right place, and you know, it shows this week how much work we've really put into it, especially with my putting, you know.   And ball striking is a lot better than it's been in the past, so it's good to be out and being able to play like this.  
   
 Q.   Good run out there today.   
    BOO WEEKLEY:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   Boo, Sunday 65 usually gets the job done on Sunday.   Just a bit short here at Zurich, but all in all how pleased are you with the day and the week?  
    BOO WEEKLEY:   I'm very pleased.   After the last five weeks the way I've been playing, I mean this is awesome, the way I feel about it.   I putted well.   I hit a lot of good shots out there this week.   You know, made equipment change, like I told y'all about earlier in the week, and it showed.  
   
 Q.   With that change and this performance, what type of confidence do you have moving forward?  
    BOO WEEKLEY:   I mean you always gotta have good confidence after doing something like this, you know, playing well, especially looking at the top guys in the world.   And getting ready to go to Jacksonville, still on Bermudagrass, and I'm excited.  
   
 Q.   Boo weekly has joined me after having a 65 in the final round for a total of 20 under.   Not good enough to win, Boo, but I'm sure a lot of positives to take from the week?  
    BOO WEEKLEY:   Oh, yes, sir.   Anytime you can finish up a round like you said, a 65, it's pretty good.   Overall this whole week, I'm excited.   I wish Jacksonville was next week, you know.  
   
 Q.   Let's look back on one or two of the highlights.   You had a bogey at 12, [] then you birdied 13.   How important was this one?  
    BOO WEEKLEY:   Oh, it was very important.   We hit a good putt right here.   It just was a comeback.   You know, when you can get yourself coming back and get back on the positive side of it, it's a good thing to kind of get your momentum back to get ready to go.  
   
 Q.   And then you came to 16, and again needed a birdie.   Justin Rose was starting to pull ahead at this stage.   Tell us about this one.   
    BOO WEEKLEY:   Perfect club right here.   I mean just one of them just smooth gap wedge, and it was just perfect, man.   Just one of them shots that I know all I had to do was put a lot of spin on it, it should be fine.  
   
 Q.   You told us at the start of the week that you put some new shafts in your irons and they've given you sort of more control.   How confident then going forward after this sort of performance in showing the sort of control you have?  
    BOO WEEKLEY:   Oh, I mean it shows right here, you know.   I think this is the first time on the PGA TOUR I've shot 20‑under, Your Honor, for a full tournament, and it shows.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT