TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 25, 2017
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Couldn't quite get it going today?
BOO WEEKLEY: We had it going, we've just been driving it bad last three days, and it kind of caught up with me today.  We hit -- there were five shots out there today I felt like could have went either way off the tee and it would have been the difference.  But it didn't pan out that way, and I just didn't make the putts that I've been making all week.  You know, that's what it boils down to.
But it was a good time.  It was good to be back up there and get some jitters in there ask feel like you're competing and still have the opportunity with these out here.
Q. How was the atmosphere?
BOO WEEKLEY: It was good.  It was exciting.  Lot of rooting, and this is always a great tournament to come to because the fans love it, and we love the fans when they get to come out ask do that.  They're pretty polite too.  There were a few drunks out there, but you're going to have that wherever you go.  Overall it was great.
Q. Big crowd today?
BOO WEEKLEY: Oh, yes, sir.  It was the biggest crowd I've been around for a long time.
Q. What do you take from the weekend moving forward?
BOO WEEKLEY: Just the momentum.  I feel like I can play again.  I feel like I've got a little more -- little pep in my step, you could say.  I feel like I can go out and still compete with the guys.  I just need to work a little harder on my driver and figure out why I'm leaving it right.  Everything I missed mostly today was to the right.  It kind of gets to you.  After while you can't score out there playing defense the whole time, and I felt like that's what I was doing a lot today is playing defense.
Q. Are there mechanical things that you take or is it more confidence?
BOO WEEKLEY: No, it's mechanical.  Usually my driver's better than my putter by all means, and this week I think my putter was better than my driver.  It kind of showed too.
Q. Talk to me about today.  The crowds were tremendous.  It was kind of a wild scene.
BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah, it was good.  The fan base here is awesome.  You've got a few drunk ones out there, and a few people that just love you and people that just want to holler just to holler.  So it was fun to be able to come out here and being in the last group playing and be a part of it.  It was great.
Q. Hearing the "Boos" had to be kind of cool because you got plenty of them today.
BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah, I got plenty of them, and they had a good reason the way I was driving out there and the way I was putting it.  But overall, it was a fun week, man.  You can't complain when you're out here on the PGA TOUR with the best players in the world.  It's kind of hard to say it wasn't a very good week.  That's very hard to say.
Q. You were in the hunt?
BOO WEEKLEY: Oh, yeah, I had myself in the hunt.  I had myself where I wanted to be.  Just ain't been there in a while.  I had a little jitters here and there come down the stretch.  Just trying to get it in.  Like I said, actually just going out and playing golf and playing how I normally play, hit it in the middle of the green, two-putt and go to the next hole.  If we make the putt, we make the putt, if not, so be it.  It felt like it took the wind out of me today.  When I missed some putts I thought I had a good opportunity to make them.
Q. But like you were saying, you were in pretty good shape going forward?
BOO WEEKLEY: Oh, yes, sir.  I'm still in good shape.  I feel good about my game.  I'm looking forward to next week.  I'm looking forward to the next four tournaments now.  Got a little bit off my chest of what happened back home and now I'm ready to play some golf.  Hopefully I can turn my season around because it's been a long season so far.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT