HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 15, 2014
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Half dozen birdies out there including a 3‑footer that you stuffed into the 18th. 
BOO WEEKLEY:   I played good today.   I had three, 3‑putts, 3‑putted the first two holes out of the gate.   Kinda changing my putting stroke up this week, just trying to find something, making putts.   And I actually started hitting it good again, and now just trying to make the putts and kinda keep the 3‑putts out of there. 

Q.   What did you change up on the stroke? 
BOO WEEKLEY:   I got a little long and laggy, not aggressive through the ball.   The ball was coming up short, and coming up short and all of the sudden I would hammer one and knock it 5, 6‑foot by, so trying to shorten it up a little bit, get a little more‑‑ not a "pop," but more aggressive to the hit. 

Q.   It's easy to get defensive out here, these greens get quick and you have some undulations but you keep stuffing it in there tight.   Those three‑footers looked good. 
BOO WEEKLEY:   Yeah, those three‑footers do look good.   They make it look easier. 

Q.   You like Texas, you're trying to add the Texas two‑step to your title list.   You will be defending next week at the Crown Plaza Invitational at Colonial; it would be great to add the HP Byron Nelson to your list. 
BOO WEEKLEY:   Yes, sir, it would be great to add this one to the list.   This is a great golf course, they got it in real good shape, considering the rain that we have had in the last couple of days.   It's just a fun course.   It's very demanding off the tee and then demanding around the greens.   You gotta know where to miss it. 

Q.   Tell me about the way the golf course played.   It looks receptive to me. 
BOO WEEKLEY:   Like I said, we had some rain earlier so the greens are soft.   Softer than they normally are and the PGA TOUR, the guys out here took care of us on the holes, where like No. 3 for example that's a long par 4, really a par 5 if you're playing the course, but they kinda moved us up knowing that the wind, you know, at any moment could be going the other way.   So they kind of helped us out.   That's what made the golf course I think a little easier but like I said, can't‑‑ still gotta hit the shots. 

Q.   Talk about your round a little bit. 
BOO WEEKLEY:   Like I said, I've been working on some putting stuff and I'm hitting the ball solid, hitting the ball good, driving it well and hitting a lot of good iron shots.   Just been struggling the last couple of months with my putting so decided to change 'em out a little more this week, get aggressive in the hitting area and my longer putts, I had no control over my distance and that's where the 3‑putts came in at.   Then when I hit it close I was pretty good with them.   It was a good round today for me. 

Q.   You mentioned the rain made things a little softer but with the sun and the wind now it's going to be‑‑ those greens are going to be fast this weekend, aren't they? 
BOO WEEKLEY:   Yes, sir, they're going to dry out, pretty good.   You give 'em another day and a half of this right here and they'll get back to their normal‑‑ up to speed and firmness. 

Q.   Do you like fast greens? 
BOO WEEKLEY:   It all depends.   If they have too much undulation on them, it gets ridiculous, where they can stick the pins at and stuff but other than that, that's part of our job, to learn how to deal with it. 

Q.   A 3‑under today looks like it's going to be a really good score for you. 
BOO WEEKLEY:   Yes, sir, I think it is.   Of course you never know out here in Texas.   The wind can pick up at any moment you know and blow, but I'm fortunate enough I played this morning and the wind wasn't really that bad until now.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT