SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 10, 2014
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How do you feel about your overall place today?  
BOO WEEKLEY:   I'm not hitting it very well, but I'm scoring well.   How's that?   But overall the last two days have been pretty much the same.   It's just been kind of missing it in the right spots and just making sure I get it up‑and‑down.   
   
 Q.   It's getting kind of windy now.   How was the weather holding up throughout the round?  
BOO WEEKLEY:   The weather was fine.   The wind got of got switching around a little bit.   It was kind of more out of the north a little bit, and then as the day has progressed it's turned more out of the east.  
   
 Q.   Any highlights from the round today?  
BOO WEEKLEY:   No.   No.   None at all.   
   
 Q.   Talk a little bit about you've won at Hilton Head, you've won at Colonial.   Does this course remind you a little bit of those just in terms of the tightness of the fairways?  
BOO WEEKLEY:   It does.   I mean, I'm glad I ain't near one of them right now the way I'm hitting it, but it's very similar.   The greens are good, I mean, it's just, like I said, I'm missing in the right spots right now, thank goodness.   I'm missing it where I can get it up‑and‑down or I'm missing it in the bunkers where I'm drawing the good lies out of the rough, and I'm in the bunker but I'm not against the lips.   
It's been pretty much of a grind out there the last two days.  
   
 Q.   You can tell you're a little bit down, but still, you're right there with 36 to play.   
BOO WEEKLEY:   I'm not down.   I mean, this is just not the way I play golf.   It's one thing to shoot 3‑under, but I'm usually averaging maybe 16 greens, where I'm only averaging 12.   You know, I mean, I think I'm hitting seven or eight fairways.   That's just not me.   
   
 Q.   But that means that that being the case, that means you're making a lot of stuff that maybe you wouldn't make normally?  
BOO WEEKLEY:   No.   I mean, I think the longest bogey putt I made has been about four foot.   I mean, the rest of it has just been‑‑ or par putt I should say.   I had one three‑putt today, you know, which is‑‑ that's about my normal game of golf.   I'm going to throw a three‑putt in there somewhere when I'm actually scoring well.   It's just when I'm playing bad is when I don't need them.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT