WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 1, 2013
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   A 67, that's a nice knock today, isn't it? 
BOO WEEKLEY:   Yeah, it was good.   Kind of got off to a shaky start.   I wasn't hitting it very well.   I was hitting it to the center of the greens and just 2‑putting it around there and all of a sudden, the first par 5 we get to, I hit it in the water on the second shot but I made like a 25‑footer that kind of jump started my putting, you know what I mean. 
So it was kind of like, all right, here we go, and made three birdies in a row on the back and came to the front feeling like I played pretty good on the front yesterday.   I just didn't make nothing yesterday.
Thought I could make some today and just made two and had some good looks coming down the stretch.   So it will be a positive at the end of the day.

Q.   Silly game, isn't it; some misfortune and suddenly thrive from it. 
BOO WEEKLEY:   Oh, yes, it's a silly game.

Q.   Were you conscious of the way you were moving up the leaderboard with all those birdies you were making? 
BOO WEEKLEY:   No, that's what we do this for.   That's why we make them so we can move up the board.   It's good to see yourself up there.   At the same time, it's kind of hard to not wonder about what you're doing, just stay focused on what's in front of you and let the rest of it take care of it yourself.

Q.   Probably easier just when you're in the second round, as opposed to on the final day, but you are in a fine position now, aren't you? 
BOO WEEKLEY:   Yes, I'm always in a fine position.   I'm here, ain't I? 

Q.   Absolutely.   How do you like being here? 
BOO WEEKLEY:   It don't matter‑‑ we're here. 

Q.   We've seen you in China for the World Cup before, you seemed to get on with that and enjoy the culture. 
BOO WEEKLEY:   Yeah, it's fun.   Just can't understand them.

Q.   Have you done anything this week, or is it just hotel golf course, hotel golf course?
BOO WEEKLEY:   You said it exactly, hotel, golf course. 

Q.   That's a shame, you come to another part of the world, you should see something?
BOO WEEKLEY:   I'm all right.   I don't need to see nothing.   I'm all right.

Q.   What is it about Baghdad, having you and Bubba at the top of the leaderboard in a World Golf Championships event like this. 
BOO WEEKLEY:   I'm not from Bagdad.   He's from Bagdad.   I'm from across the river from him.   I'm from East Milton.

Q.   It's close. 
BOO WEEKLEY:   It is close but it's a different. 

Q.   Good to see you up that board, keep it going?
BOO WEEKLEY:   I appreciate it, thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT