WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 2, 2013
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Boo, good stuff today.   Five birdies, a bogey, talk about this opening round 68?  
BOO WEEKLEY:   It was good.   I mean, I'm hitting the ball really well right now and making some putts.   I felt like a left a lot of putts out there too.   I hit it pretty close on a couple holes and I think it was, I missed four putts inside of seven feet that I felt like I had a pretty good line on, I just didn't have any speed for them.  
   
 Q.   You've played this golf course before.   How different is it as wet as it is out there?   
BOO WEEKLEY:   It's different.   It's long right now.   It's playing long.   You're having to hit hybrids, 4‑irons and 5‑irons where normally we hit 7‑irons or 6‑irons.   It's playing long.  
   
 Q.   Any issues with mud balls out there?   On 8 and 10, if you hit it in the fairway you can pick it up, but nowhere else?  
BOO WEEKLEY:   Not really.   There was a little, but it wasn't really bad.   No, sir.  
   
 Q.   You have to be ecstatic.   A couple years ago we were wondering is Boo going to make it back.   And you're gradually climbing up the leaderboard?  
BOO WEEKLEY:   Yes, sir, I'm getting healthy again, and as long as I stay healthy, I feel like I can play with the best of them.  
   
 Q.   Green speeds, how were they?   
BOO WEEKLEY:   They were pretty good.   Overall, it was good.  
   
 Q.   You've been playing awfully well here in the last month, month and a half.   What do you think has been the key for you?   
BOO WEEKLEY:   I'm starting to make putts.   I'm starting to see the lines a little better.   My speed's gotten a lot better with my putter.   I've been working pretty hard at it and finally it's starting to click.  
   
 Q.   How good was it out there today?   
BOO WEEKLEY:   It was pretty good.   I made a couple long putts today, but I missed a lot of short ones.   I missed at least four to five that I thought were makeable and inside of seven foot.  
   
 Q.   How challenging were the putting surfaces out there today?   
BOO WEEKLEY:   It was fine.   First off, they were pretty smooth.   They were rolled good, and I mean, I think the greens were fine.   It ain't a hundred percent, but I mean they're good enough to play golf on.  
   
 Q.   They played prefer lies on 8 and 10 today.   Do you think it was a good decision, and do you think they needed to do something like that and move forward the rest of the week with something like that?   
BOO WEEKLEY:   I don't know.   I mean, if we keep get a little more moisture in the area, I think we're going to have to probably play it up.   But I didn't get no mud balls and I forgot about lift and cleaning it on number 8, so it didn't bother me none.   
I can understand where the guys that put a lot of spin off the tee with their driver might have a little more issue.  
   
 Q.   Just kind of recap round one for us.   
BOO WEEKLEY:   I started out the first hole, started on 10, and I just hit a good shot right out of the gate.   My third shot up there to about a foot‑and‑a‑half and tapped it in.   Then just kind of played some decent golf around there and hit another close one on I think it was 14 and knocked it in, then missed a short one on 15.   Just kind of played decent golf.   It was steady.   I hit a lot of good drives and a lot of good second shots.  
   
 Q.   Just kind of talk about the weather.   Normally we're a 90‑degree, cool day, damp day, allows you guys to really go after the greens.   
BOO WEEKLEY:   I mean, it's playing long out there because it's a damp day.   The fairways are wet.   The greens are a little soft, not slow, but soft.   You can kind of fire at the pins a little bit versus what we normally are used to here.   When it's hot, it's usually fast and firm.   
So they made it just a little easier, I thought.   This afternoon, the greens might get a little bumpier just because of the footprints and stuff on it.   But, overall, I think the golf course they've done a real good job with under the conditions.  
   
 Q.   You talked about being healthy, but let's go back to your golf game.   What is clicking for you?   
BOO WEEKLEY:   Everything.   Right now I'm actually starting to drive the ball pretty good.   I'm hitting a lot of good iron shots.   And the putts, for me, it's all about confidence with that putter.   If I get my putter working and I feel good with it, I feel like I can play with the best.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like the greens will soften up or get better over the weekend with the weather?   
BOO WEEKLEY:   It's going to be hard to tell.   I mean, there's a lot of play going to be on them, so they're going to have to roll them and stuff like that.   But what's happened up here with the greens, I think that they've done a real good job.   They're playable.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT