TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 24, 2017
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Boo Weekley, thank you for joining us for a few minutes.  5-under 65 in round three of the Travelers Championship gets you to 11 under, presently tied for the lead with Jordan Spieth.  Few minutes ago outside you called this a dream come true again.  If you could just elaborate on that and just talk a little bit about how good it feels to be back in that position you know you've been capable of being in?
BOO WEEKLEY: It's been a while.  I mean, I've been having some personal struggles back home and then finally I'm starting to get that little bit taken care of.  I don't know.  It's just kind of surreal to be back up here in front of y'all and talking about it.  As much work as I've put into golf and as much as I'd love to win again and be a part of it, don't matter which tournament, I just want to win.  That's what everybody out here, that's what we strive to do.  To be sitting here feels like it's an honor, at the same time as I'm playing well.
Q. (Inaudible)?
BOO WEEKLEY: I think it was at -- oh, boy.  See, that's been a long time, Colonial.  I think that was the last time I did any kind of media stuff besides getting in trouble or something or saying something wrong.  It's been a while.
Q. Every time I looked up you were making a putt.  Did it feel like that?
BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah, it felt like that, yes, sir.  Me and my caddie and coach we've been doing a lot of work trying to get it to work out.  I switched from conventional to left hand low.  Trying to get myself more where I feel like I don't sway at it as much.  Now I feel like I'm more solid with it, and it helps out a lot since I'm left-handed.  I feel like I can lock it in there and make a good stroke now.
Q. (Inaudible)?
BOO WEEKLEY: More or less, yes, sir.
Q. Is this the first tournament you've tried this?
BOO WEEKLEY: No, no, I've been doing it now for, I don't know, about a month.  I've putted well, it's just nothing has come together.  I haven't hit it well like as good as I've hit it this week and putted it like I normally do.
Q. Boo, a lot of people will agree that so much of the game is mental, and how you just joked a moment ago, is that kind of how you need to deal with?  Because the game can drive you crazy when you're not having any success.  Just kind of take the approach you just had there and here you are again?
BOO WEEKLEY: Yes, sir.  I ain't going to say everything's a joke, but, yeah, you've got to look at it as a joke.  What you do for a living and when you get off the golf course, it's over with.  It's time to have fun, go talk about something else, do something different.  I think that helps me out a lot because I've got other things to do.  I've got a lot of friends.  I've got some friends up here right now that are with me, and it makes it easy.  As soon as golf's over, they don't want to talk about golf.  They want to talk about something else, you know, so.
Q. When you're playing in a threesome as you were today, and the first two of the guys like throwing darts, can you guys feed off one another?  You were both within 10 or 12 feet on 18?
BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah, we feed off each other a lot out there.  Plus it helps out a lot with who you're playing with.  If you can get along with them.  I ain't saying a lot of us don't get along with each other, it's just a lot of us don't prefer to play with each other, you know?  That's just part of it.
Somebody might be too slow or somebody might talk too much where we don't want to talk as much as some people.  But at the same time you don't want to be paired with somebody that takes 900 practice swings.
Q. Where's Jordan rank on that list?
BOO WEEKLEY: Sir?
Q. Where does Jordan rank on that list?  Is he a guy you'd like to be paired with since you'll probably be paired with him tomorrow?
BOO WEEKLEY: He'll be fine.  I don't have no problem.  That's why we have caddies out here to talk to them.  If we don't want to talk to them, we can go over and talk to our caddie.  At the same time, Jordan's a good dude.  You know what I mean?  He's one of the most humble kids out here that play with us right now.  Day in and day out, he's one of the most humble kids.  My hat's off to him, and who he is as a person.
Q. Someone who knows both of you guys might not think that you have too much in common, but when you talk about how much do you have in common?
BOO WEEKLEY: I don't know what we've got in common.  I don't know if he hunts or fish.  Oh, I mean I know he fishes.  I know he's caught some good bass.  I've seen pictures.  He's borrowed a few of my rods down in Doral a couple years ago.  He loves to fish, so we've got a little in common there.  So we can talk about that.
Q. You mentioned at the beginning of this that you've had some personal stuff at home.  Not to pry, but anything you can get into?
BOO WEEKLEY: No, sir.
Q. When you're going through personal stuff, how have you been able to separate the golf from that and get through it?
BOO WEEKLEY: I haven't until this week, as you can tell.  You look at it, my best finishes here is 36th.  It ain't because I played bad.  It's just like I never could get like over the hump of it, you know what I mean?  It's just like I played good for three or four holes and then I hit one arrogant shot and then just be doubting myself, mad at myself, and start thinking about some things.
Just stuff that I shouldn't be thinking about because this is my business, this is my job.  But it's still hard to get over some things that you've got to get taken care of.
Q. You talked about your putting earlier.  I don't know if you saw it, Rory was kind of tinkering with some new putters this morning.  When you're not putting well, is that kind of a default to immediately start looking at another putter?  Is that kind of the first place you look?
BOO WEEKLEY: Oh, yeah.  I change putters like I change underwear, man.  If it don't work, we're putting another pair on.  If these are a little too tight, you know, we're changing something, buddy.  Something's going to get done.
Q. How many putters have you changed this year?
BOO WEEKLEY: This year I've gone through probably close to about 20.  Yeah, that's a lot of washing.
Q. (Inaudible)?
BOO WEEKLEY: Man, if I knew that we'd all be out there winners.  I couldn't tell you that.  It's just a matter of just time.  That's all golf is a matter of time before everything works and comes together for you.
Q. You like this course?
BOO WEEKLEY: Oh, yeah, the golf course is great.  It's always been one of my favorites.  Just in the past I haven't played well.  Haven't hit it well, haven't putt well.  It's just all when everything comes together, everybody's going to say who is at the top.  That's just how it works.
Q. Would it be fair to say you play your best golf when you're happy, and I assume you're happy now?
BOO WEEKLEY: Yes, sir.  I mean, that's bottom line for just about any of us out here.  When you ain't hurt and you're happy, you can get away with a lot of things, because you don't think about it as much as when you hit a bad shot.  You know what I mean?  It's like, okay, well, I hit a bad shot.  I make bogey.  I know the next hole I'll make birdie.  Where if you're in a bad spot in your mind or your heart, you just get down.  Then when you get down, you just, it's hard to crawl yourself back out of it, man.  I'm proven on that right now.
Q. It's been a while, but what's it take (inaudible)?
BOO WEEKLEY: Just go out there and execute what I've been doing.  I mean, you know, it ain't nothing at the golf course that's going to change.  You've just got to go out, stay focused, pick your spots and just hit your shots.  I mean, that's the whole key to the game anyway.  If you can execute them, then I feel like I should be right there in the top.  Make a couple putts here and there and you never know.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT