RBC HERITAGE
April 17, 2013
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JOHN BUSH:   We'd like to welcome two-time RBC Heritage champion Boo Weekley.   Making your 7th start, comment on being back at Hilton Head.
BOO WEEKLEY:   It's good to be back.   Like playing at home again.   I wish I could sleep.
JOHN BUSH:   Comment on your season.   You played well in March, including your runner‑up finish at Tampa Bay.   Comment on the season as a whole. 
BOO WEEKLEY:   I've got to where I'm feeling more comfortable, healing up a bit, my shoulder ain't hurting as bad.   The ball is going in the hole.   That's what I haven't been doing the last couple of years.   I was just missing everything.   And the ball started falling.

Q.   Brandt is going to be in here this afternoon and Jason this afternoon, we're probably going to ask them about the disappointment at Augusta on Sunday.   You went through something similar at the Honda.   How do you come back after that?
BOO WEEKLEY:   I was in a playoff.   I just choked.   There's a difference.   You know, I mean, I think Brandt just got pressing a little too hard.   I mean, I think that's what hurt me.   I didn't watch until the very end.   I heard there was going to be a playoff, and that's when I actually watched it.   So I really couldn't tell you what all went down.   But usually the players that we are out here, when we start shooting the numbers there, two things are happening:   We're either pressing way too hard or we just don't give a flying donkey.

Q.   How long did it take you to get over it?   Did you sleep on it for a little while?
BOO WEEKLEY:   I had a nightmare or two after it, right out of the gate.   But everybody is different out here.   I mean, I took it to where it's an advantage; I learned a little bit from it.   And it kind of helped me coming down the stretch here a couple of years ago.   I got up there and chipped it in.   A lot of it is luck. 

Q.   Do you look forward to it this week more than most, just because of your success here?
BOO WEEKLEY:   I'd say yes in a way.   Not all of them, but yes.   I enjoy coming here.   I enjoy the atmosphere of it, the actual golf course.   We don't get to play this kind of golf course very often.   And that's what the setup is, a lot of the guys that come here to play, they come here to play this golf course because it's just a different‑‑ what other golf course is similar to this one?   There is only one maybe close to it and that's Colonial, that's it. 
But, yeah, I think that's the reason why I come, just so I can come and be around these golf courses.

Q.   What would you call this type of golf?
BOO WEEKLEY:   Narrow.   It's just target golf.   You can't hit it too far, but you've got to hit it far enough.

Q.   Do you get to do much fishing here?
BOO WEEKLEY:   No, I ain't done a lot of fishing, not yet anyway.   I mean, I've tried it a few times, a couple years ago.   If I'm renting a house that has a pond behind it, yes, I'll fish every day.   But I didn't have one this year.

Q.   I talked to Scott Hamilton at The PLAYERS about your improved putting, can you walk us through that. 
BOO WEEKLEY:   We got in that SAND Lab or whatever that computer putting program is.   We got messing around with it.   And he kind of showed me some things that I needed to work on, just take it back a little further.   Because I'm a popper; I grew up on slow bermuda where you've got to pop the ball to get it on top of the grass.   So once he showed me that little bit, we started lengthening my stroke out, and it kind of slowed it down through the hitting area, where it goes like this and then flattens out and then falls off, is what the lab kind of thing showed me.   That's what I've been working on. 
And then there is a yardstick thing that they're giving away out here, it's manufacturer makes it or whatever, but it's something that you putt on where you've got to keep it rolling down that thing, the yardstick, you've got to keep it rolling down it.   I've used that a lot, trying to keep myself more focused, where I go straight down and not pulling across or pushing it. 
I think that's the two things that helped me the most.

Q.   Statistically this is your best two years in putting, do you feel like your putting is better?
BOO WEEKLEY:   I'm putting real well.   And I've been putting well.   I don't know this week, because‑‑ but I'm week to week, you know how that is.   But I feel like I'll be all right.   We're back on Bermuda. 
That's what we mostly played so far this year.   You look at it, just about every golf course we play, the tournaments I've played are Bermuda.   That helps me out except when I'm on the West Coast.

Q.   Up north on the bent?
BOO WEEKLEY:   Yeah, I mean, I don't know, I ain't figured out how to read that yet. 

Q.   THE PLAYERS Championship is coming up in about three or four weeks.   When someone mentions that tournament, do you think about things that have happened there or anything in particular?
BOO WEEKLEY:   Just another golf tournament.   Just like next week, just another golf tournament.   They got some good food there next week. 
JOHN BUSH:   We appreciate you coming by.   Good luck this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT