CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK HOSPITALS CLASSIC
November 11, 2012
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How rewarding is it to finish the season like this?
BOO WEEKLEY:   It's good.   I mean it's ‑‑ after I had that surgery in the middle of the year and struggled from there on, and just making the last two cuts in the tournaments I've played in, it feels good.   It shows that I still got a little bit of game in me.

Q.   What was the surgery?
BOO WEEKLEY:   I had some cysts.

Q.   On your back?
BOO WEEKLEY:   No.   It was in my hiney. 

Q.   Sorry. 
BOO WEEKLEY:   Don't matter to me.   I mean I can't help it.   It is where they are, you know.

Q.   I'm just going to go with cysts.   When was that?   What month?
BOO WEEKLEY:   It was the Houston tournament.

Q.   How long were you out for?
BOO WEEKLEY:   Right at three weeks, almost a month.

Q.   Well, and after struggling last year, I think you finished 180?
BOO WEEKLEY:   I was hurt last year.

Q.   I think that was the shoulder. 
BOO WEEKLEY:   Yeah.   I had shoulder surgery at the beginning of the year this year.   I had it worked on, got it fixed.   It still gives me little problems, you know, when it's cold out. 
But overall, it's been all right. 

Q.   Which, left, right?
BOO WEEKLEY:   Left.

Q.   And what did they say?
BOO WEEKLEY:   The labrum.

Q.   It was just torn?
BOO WEEKLEY:   Yeah.

Q.   What kind of momentum does this give you for next year where you can finish like this with your back against the wall?
BOO WEEKLEY:   My back wasn't really against the wall.   I mean I got lucky.   I mean like I said, the last three tournaments I had to play in was the Vegas and then out in California and then Sea Island.   And all I had to do was make the cut in one of them, finish in the top 20, 25, something like that and I would be fine because there's such a big gap from that 25th position to the 21st position.   I think there was like 80, 90 thousand dollars.   And so I had a buddy of mine, a guy I work with, Scott Hamilton broke the numbers all down.   He said, man, only way these guys that are behind you all win and finish in the Top 4 spots and it knocks you out.

Q.   He said he did that because he felt like you were a little nervous. 
BOO WEEKLEY:   I was.   I ain't going to lie about it.   I was, yeah.

Q.   So when you actually saw it ‑‑
BOO WEEKLEY:   Made me feel a lot better.   They showed me at Hilton Head.   No, not Hilton Head.   Why do I keep calling it that?   Sea Island is when he showed me all the stuff. 

Q.   The beginning of this week everything was fine, you felt fine?
BOO WEEKLEY:   Oh, no, I played ‑‑ I felt fine but I wasn't playing very well.   We went out and played a little bit, and I was playing awful, just playing bad.

Q.   How much do you look forward to starting the season healthy next year?
BOO WEEKLEY:   It's going to be good.   The doctor's got me on a diet.   The doctor's got some other things I had to get me on, blood pressure's been real high.   My cholesterol has been real high.   So they just started me on some medication like two weeks ago.   We're trying to figure out if we can do, I gotta find out testosterone medicines and some other stuff like that because I've been real tired.   The main thing is get back healthy, feel healthy.   Physically I feel fine, but on the inside I'm not, according to him.

Q.   This may be too close.   Do you have low T?
BOO WEEKLEY:   Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT