THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 27, 2010
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome Boo Weekley to the interview room here at the Greenbrier Classic. Boo is no stranger to West Virginia. He played in the Pete Dye Classic on the Nationwide Tour several years, including a runner-up finish in 2006. 
 Boo, I know you were embraced by the fans there, and I know this state means a lot to you. Just comment on being here at the Greenbrier Classic.
 BOO WEEKLEY: Flying in, it looked like the same as it was wherever I was at over there on the other side. What's the name of that place? 
 JOHN BUSH: Near Clarksburg. 
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah, Clarksburg. It's pretty. Pretty terrain around here. This hotel is amazing. It's unreal how big this place is. You could get lost. It's like going to the White House. You get into a hallway you can walk forever. 
 It's neat to be back here. I hope I play well for the fans and have a good time with 'em.
 JOHN BUSH: Talk a little bit about your season, Boo. I know it's been a tough one for you. You had some shoulder issues. You're coming in after a couple week's rest. Talk about your health and about your game.
 BOO WEEKLEY: I think my game is starting to come around. I played pretty good at the John Deere. I just didn't putt the ball as well as I wanted to there. But at least I had a chance to contend a little bit.
 My game is starting to come around. I found me some drivers I can actually play now and found some irons I feel a little better with. The main thing is just getting out there and playing and hitting the greens and seeing if the putter can get hot and go work with it. 
 But the last two weeks I haven't done nothing. I've been off just taking it easy and doing a charity event. I'm curious to get back into swinging the golf club again.
 JOHN BUSH: All right. Questions for Boo. 

 Q. You said you've been here before. Now talk but uniqueness of this police. They've bunkers that obviously aren't even on the green, if you care it mention that. 
 BOO WEEKLEY: You mean bunkers like on the golf course? 

 Q. On the golf course, also the history of the place. It's a pretty unique place, this whole entire facility, isn't it?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah. I mean, I haven't played the golf course yet, so I don't know nothing about it. I actually sat there last night when I was watching TV before I fell back asleep, and I was watching a little bit of the history of where the bunker is and how they went through, if you had radiation, had these little showers and stuff. 
 I was like, Wow, they could do that in the locker room down there. It would be perfect. Don't have to wait on everybody. Just walk through. 
 But it's pretty neat to know a lot of the history that went in behind that bunker. I mean, I'd like to learn a little more about it, but right now I want to focus on golf. 
 If I miss the cut or something I might go check it out. (Laughing.)

 Q. Boo, there seems to be a lot low scores being shot this year, lower than your average. Guys shoots 60; I think there might have been a 59 somewhere on another tour. Do you notice people shooting lower scores? And if so, do you have an explanation for it?
 BOO WEEKLEY: They shooting low scores, that's for sure. I mean, Paul Goydos shot 59 a couple weeks ago, and then Stricker and them going out and playing the way they played.
 I don't know. I think a lot has to do with the golf's just got to that level now. I really do. We're back to playing golf courses that you can actually have fun on instead of playing golf courses that the rough is just real high and you just chip it out sideways and just hope you can make par or bogey.

 Q. Some reaction to the new rules on grooves that started this year?
 BOO WEEKLEY: I think so, yes, sir. I think it's a lot funner. I think now that they got the rough cut back a little bit, you know, you really don't know if you gonna catch a flyer every time now with the new grooves. 
 With the old grooves in the old days, if you were playing out of the same rough we're playing out, we knew can advance it and we know it will have enough spin on it and it'll stop. 
 Now you don't know if it's gonna jump, fly, or come out dead. To us it makes the golf -- or to me. I can't say us. I can't speak for everybody that's on tour. But I think it's become a lot funner to play knowing that at least, hey, I at least got an opportunity now of advancing the ball towards the green. 
 If I get lucky and it rolls out onto the green as like a flyer, that'll be great. If I don't, I'll be right there short instead of knowing when I get there, I'm like, Oh, man, rough my ball is in three, four inches of rough. I ain't got to shot. I might just lob it out here, back in play so I can at least advance the ball. 

 Q. Seem strange to you that we would have these scores in view of the groove changing? Because everybody was telling us the horror stories about the grooves. 
 BOO WEEKLEY: Grooves ain't made that much difference. You can still spin the ball. You just don't spin it as much around the green. You don't spin it as much with your longer irons, like your 6-iron up. You can still stop the ball. 

 Q. Boo, this week, is this the kind of week where new golf courses, your caddie, he has to put in a little extra work this week, right, to kind of put a book on this place, or what?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Oh, he gonna have to do some work. He needs to do some work anyway. He's been pretty lazy lately. He's been at home with me for two weeks. 
 No, he'll go out and walk the golf course. Him and couple other caddies, they'll shoot yardages. They'll get it together. A lot of the caddies, they go out together and work together so they can get the ups and downs, how far it is to fly it over certain bunkers. 
 Just different things. Where you want to miss it; where you don't. They'll check the rough out. They ain't gonna work no harder than they normally would. It's just a new golf course. That's the only thing different.

 Q. Can you talk but uniqueness of this course? And in particular, possibly coming down to Sunday and finishing up on 18, a par-3?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Tell you the truth, I haven't seen it, so I didn't even know 18 was a par-3. I don't know nothing about this golf course. I'm hoping to learn a little bit about it today. I'm gonna go out and play nine, just play the back nine and just learn a little bit about it, and then come out tomorrow morning and play in the Pro-Am and check the whole thing out again, you know.
 But that's gonna be pretty interesting, finishing up with a par-3. Pretty neat. It's a change.

 Q. One legend of golf, Sam Snead, played here many, many times. Reflect on what he's brought not just to this course, but just to golf in general. Sam Snead day is tomorrow here at the Greenbrier. 
 BOO WEEKLEY: I don't understand what you're asking me.

 Q. Just reflect over the course of your career what Sam Snead has meant to you and golf in general. 
 BOO WEEKLEY: Tell you the truth, I didn't know Sam Snead was up here until last week. I didn't know this is was where he played at. I don't do much with the history of golf. I don't keep up with it. I just play the game. When I'm done, I'm done. 
 I didn't know that Carl Pettersson won until I read the paper on the airplane yesterday. I mean, I ain't trying to be rude to Mr. Snead or nothing. Looks like he's done a pretty good job if look around this place. Look how big it is. (Laughing.) I think he's brought in a lot of different characters and things to the place, which makes it great. 
 It meant a lot to him for him to do all this, so it has to mean something for the rest of us. 

 Q. You talked about before we started that you played up in Clarksburg, Nationwide Tour event. What do you remember about that? Can that make you a little bit more comfortable, or one tournament has nothing to do with another?
 BOO WEEKLEY: One tournament don't have nothing to do with another, because each tournament is totally different. You know, I mean, the fans are different. You know, you got fans that root for people harder than others. The golf course is totally different.
 But, you know, it's always nice to come up here. First thing, it's beautiful up here. The terrain is awesome. Look around, and you get to see the big trees, you know, and different smells in the woods that you smell around this area.
 It's just great to be back up here and see some familiar faces that I've seen in other tournaments. 

 Q. Hilton Head has been a great place for you during your career. Talk about some of the secrets to success there, certainly a place that means lots to you in your career. 
 BOO WEEKLEY: Hilton Head is always gonna be a special place in my heart. I'm looking to move it on somewhere else, too, you know, win somewhere else and find some more special memories. 
 But that place, it's just -- the wind blows, got to keep it in play, you know, you got to hit certain yardages off the tee, certain yardages around the green. You can't be long; you can't be short. 
 I'm curious so see this golf course. It's got a little similarity to it. Just gotta go out and play it and see it. That's what I'm hoping to do. Maybe I can fall in love with this place like I have over there.

 Q. Do you kind of see yourself as a champion for the common man? Do you think that's why people in West Virginia embrace you like they did up in Clarksburg and probably will be here? 
 BOO WEEKLEY: I mean, I hope that that's how they look at it. That'll be great. I just see myself as a common person one way or another. The Lord's blessed me to give me the talent to come out here and play the game and be able to interact with people. That's what it's about.
 You don't want to pay whatever you pay, $65, $70 dollars to come out here and watch guys play and you can't say nothing to 'em or you can't talk to 'em. You gotta be friendly. You gotta open it up to them. The way I look at it, they're paying my bills, you know. Every person that comes here buys a diaper for my little kid. 

 Q. About 20 careers ago, I had the luxury to sit down with Sam. He told me that he used to catch fish with his hands. You're an outdoors guy. Do you believe that?
 BOO WEEKLEY: I believe you can if you get 'em in a swimming pool or something, or a kiddie pool. I mean, I believe you can -- if you get 'em in them creeks or streams around here, I believe you can get 'em. You can catch 'em with your hands. 

 Q. It's almost August. Ryder Cup is not far away. What do you think you need to do between now and then to get on Corey Pavin's radar?
 BOO WEEKLEY: I'd have to win about three or four times. Like win the next three tournaments right before they leave out, and then he might say, Hey, you can come on if you want. 
 That would be great to get on the Ryder Cup team. I especially don't feel like I deserve to be on it right now the way I played this year. You know, I mean, I feel like -- I ain't saying I would hurt the team, but I don't feel like I'm at the top of my game where I feel like I can honestly say, Hey, I can contribute to the team and feel like I could.
 So, I mean, like I said, I would love to be there, because that's one the greatest moments in golf that I've had, playing in the Ryder Cup and representing my country. 

 Q. You're an outdoorsman. You hunt. You fish. Do you think West Virginia fits your personality, and maybe this is kind of a good place for you and maybe a good way to get your season back on track?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yes, this is a good place. I mean, you know, I might have to get my compass out to find my way back to the golf course and where I'm staying at up there. 
 I come out of my motel room, and I done got lost three times. I had to call my agent, How in the hell do I get where I'm going? He says, Just try to get downstairs. I'm like, Well, where is the elevator at? I couldn't find that. I done made a wrong turn.
 This place is big. I'm hoping that when I come out that I'll be able to play the game the way I know how to play. Hopefully I can get jump started, because this would be a great place to get it jump started at. 
 I feel like I could fit in here, minus the White House up the hill there. 
 JOHN BUSH: Boo, thanks for coming by and spending a few minutes with us. Play well this week.
 BOO WEEKLEY: Thanks ya'll.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT