VERIZON HERITAGE
April 17, 2010
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome Boo Weekley into the interview room here at the Verizon Heritage. 3-under par 68.  
 Boo, welcome back to a room that you're very familiar with. Nice, solid round out there, three birdies and no bogeys.  
 BOO WEEKLEY: It wasn't as pretty as the scorecard showed. It was a little difficult out there today. I didn't hit it -- I didn't have my "A" game, that's for sure.   
 JOHN BUSH: You're one of the best ball strikers on Tour. The wind was whipping and you mentioned you didn't play quite as well in the wind as you usually did. Was it affecting you?   
 BOO WEEKLEY: No, I just wasn't hitting the ball solid. If you're not hitting the ball solid, you can't control the ball. And that's about what was happening to me is I just couldn't control the ball today in that wind. I wasn't quite hitting it as solid as I usually did.  
  
  Q. Another ho-hum 68, with you getting onboard with 68, would you like to go deeper tomorrow?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: I'd like to go deeper tomorrow. I've got all I could get out of it today. The first two days I felt like I could have shot 66. 66 the first few days, that's what I felt like I should have shot. But again anything can happen.  
 Tomorrow is going to be a new day. I heard the wind is going to blow just a little bit different tomorrow. So it's going to be great. You've got so many guys right there at the top that can sneak one in there.  
  
  Q. You say that you got everything out of it, but it seemed like there were four or five, six putts that were a couple of inches away from going in today. You were doing the old bending back a couple of times?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah, there was a couple that could have went. But them are 15- or 20-footers. My game is I might make one of them a round or maybe two, max. But for one of them to fall, it would have been pretty special today, too. To have one fall. All I ask for is one. And it fell on the last hole.  
  
  Q. Does this feel at all like the other two times you won down here?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: No, it's a little different. I've got my family here. I've got my whole family here. I've got my two boys. So I'm not getting quite all the rest that I normally would get, especially with the littlest one.   
 It's fun. Just because they're here, you know, that I've got a totally different frame of mind, a little different atmosphere than if I'm running around in my head, than I normally would if I was by myself here.  
  
  Q. You had everybody cracking up on the 10th tee. How important is it to you to have fun out there?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: Well, it's fun. This week's probably been the funnest week I've had all year. The way my golf game has been at the beginning of the year it's been a struggle. So I finally feel like I'm having fun back on the golf course. I hadn't had no fun until this week. And I think a lot of it has to do with my family. And that's the reason why I decided for them to come out and hang out with me on this tournament. On top of that I've won it twice and I wanted them to see it and be a part of it.  
  
  Q. Any way this could be your second home course, if this keeps up? Could you buy a house out here?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: No, I ain't buying no house out here. I'm out of the house business. I might buy a barn or something. That's the next thing I'm going to buy is a barn, and put me a little room in it, you know.  
  
  Q. You're out of the house business because the house you bought in Jay is your dream house?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: Every house is a dream house when you started from scratch, you know? I just don't -- I don't see why I would move, you know. I'm staying right where I'm at.  
  
  Q. Just a second?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: I just bought one out on the beach. And I don't even like the beach.  
  
  Q. Where, Pensacola?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: It's on the sound side, but we ain't got to walk but about 150 yards, and you'd be on the gulf side. I got it on the sound side so the kids could swim, and I could fish while they're swimming.  
  
  Q. It's really calm on the sound side?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: Oh, yeah, sometimes it is.  
  
  Q. You played here a lot. You've won here. Do you have a favorite hole that you look forward to playing?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: When it's dead calm? No. 2. If it was dead calm. No, there ain't no favorite hole. The prettiest hole is 18 by far. You just don't get that on a lot of golf courses when you can look up and see water to your left and see a lighthouse out there that you can hit it at. I mean it's a pretty place.   
 JOHN BUSH: Speaking of No. 2, take us through these three birdies. You got No. 2 for the third straight day.  
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah, hit No. 2 today. Driver just a little left, left rough and hit 6-iron just short right of the green. Chipped it up. I think I made about a seven- or eight-footer there. Didn't hit a very good chip but made a putt.   
 And then No. 5, I hit driver up there and I think I had like 216 or 214 to the hole, and 5-iron to the center of the green. And just two-putted it from about 25, 30 feet.  
 The last hole I hit 5-wood, 9-iron in there to about 7 feet, 6 feet, and made it.   
  
  Q. You feel like this is kind of the perfect place to get your game back to where you want it?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yea and nay. Out here, to me this golf course, and there's very few golf courses we play that you can actually stand at the tee box and look down and see, like you see a tree, you know, and you say all right, I start it here, I can make it end up over here or over there, you know. Where on other golf courses it's more wide open. It's kind of a newer golf course. This is a traditional golf course, where it's tree-lined. You've got to keep a certain distance, instead of it being a wide open golf course, you've got to worry about carrying over a bunker or hitting around a bunker over here. I like this place. This is wonderful.  
  
  Q. What is your mentality tomorrow in this kind of situation where you've got maybe, I haven't looked lately, but 18 or 20 guys within three shots or something like that, getting into a shootout? How do you go into that tomorrow?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: One shot at a time. I mean, I can't be focused on what they're doing. I just go up there and just hit my shot, hit it on the fairway, hit it on the green and just play each hole like it's the last one.   
 JOHN BUSH: Boo, thanks for coming by. Play well tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT