FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 28, 2010
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   BOO WEEKLEY: I struggled a little bit with the driver, but other than that I'm hitting it pretty solid.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about your round?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: It was a good round, a solid round for me. I made a lot of putts today that I haven't been making, which I four-putted today, too, which kind of put a damper in -- I had it going at 4-under, and then I knew I had a pretty good stretch of holes there where I knew I could make some birdies coming in, and then I four-putted 12, and I kind of lost a little bit of momentum there, so I kind of knew, okay, I've got a couple holes coming in I can make birdie on, I've just got to stay focused. I went out there and I think I made two birdies coming in -- three birdies coming in, yeah. So it was all right.  
  
  Q. Are you battling an injury?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: A little bit of a foot injury. I mean, ain't nothing nobody else ain't had out here.  
  
  Q. When did that start?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: I've had it on and off for about ten years.  
  
  Q. Which foot?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: My right foot right now. It might be my left foot next year. Two years ago I had a shot in my left foot. Right now it's the right one.  
  
  Q. Have they told you what it is?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: Plantar fasciitis. I don't know how to spell it, though.  
  
  Q. You're not taking time off? The report was erroneous?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: I don't know who said it. They misunderstood what I was saying I reckon, but I wasn't taking no time off. I'm going to go home after this tournament for two weeks and finish up hunting season and see if -- go down and see the doctor again and see what he says. We were talking about doing that same thing Tiger did, drawing blood and spinning it and pulling the plasma out and shooting it back in you. That's what we're talking about doing.  
  
  Q. But you're scheduled to return which week?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: I don't know. Two weeks after this one, whenever that tournament is.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT