THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2017
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Three off the lead so far today, what is it about this course that you play so well?  Last year you were T-16.  
BOO WEEKLEY: I don't know, just being back home -- well it feels back home.  I just like the way it lays out and the changes they made is pretty good.  So still curious to see how it's going to play out as the week goes on, because the greens started getting a little firmer out there this afternoon when the wind picked up.   
 Q.  How did you play those changes today like 12?  
BOO WEEKLEY: 12, I laid up.  You can drive it on the green there, but it's kind of a dicey play because the way they got it cut off on the left side there, if you hit it on the green and it rolls, it could roll in the water pretty easy.  I did it in the practice round, so it's kind of crazy.   
 Q.  You said it kind of feels like you're home now this week, you got a lot of water around here, are you fishing?  
BOO WEEKLEY: Oh, yeah, I've been fishing.  I caught the biggest one I caught so far this week was right at about five to six pounds.  I caught a couple threes and twos and a couple smaller than that.   
 Q.  That's got to be fun for you?  
BOO WEEKLEY: Oh, it is.  I caught me a spotted gar, which is like southern pike down here we call it.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
BOO WEEKLEY: I really hit the ball really well on the front side.  Missed a couple putts that I thought I had a good chance.  I had an eagle chance on 11 from about 15 feet, which was I thought a pretty makeable putt.   
On 10 I left it short in the jaws from about 12 feet.   
On the front side I felt like I hit the ball a lot better than I did on the back side, off the tee and iron shots coming in.  But it is what it is.  That's golf.  You can't always be perfect with it.   
 Q.  With the changes how did the course play in general?  
BOO WEEKLEY: I'm still laying up on 12.   
I think that number 7 over there looks a little different because you got to hit it -- really now your line's more left than it used to be where you could aim it at the bunkers you ain't got to really worry about it, now you got to aim a little more left there.  It opens your eyes up a little more because it brings in the water, it seems like it does, but it really don't, you just got to stand up there and just trust your swing.   
 Q.  Was it playing firm and fast out there or more or less than last year on Thursday?  
BOO WEEKLEY: This afternoon it got a little firmer as the wind picked up.  Just seemed like it dried it out a little bit.  You had to land the ball in, like say on number 8, for instance, Robert Garrigus landed it like two or three on and it rolled almost off the back of the green.  He hit it pretty high coming in there and it still got all the way to the back.  So, yeah, it's starting to get a little firm out there.   
 Q.  How are the green speeds?  
BOO WEEKLEY: They're good.  I thought that uphill, downhill, I think they were pretty consistent.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT