VERIZON HERITAGE
April 19, 2009
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Did your back feel better as you went along?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah. Thursday I was about 70, 60 percent and as the week went along I got better and better. And today it showed that I was fully back to normal.

 Q. You've been so identified with this tournament the last few years, more so than just a normal champion. What's it going to be like now that you're not the champion?
 BOO WEEKLEY: I'm still a champ, they can't take that from me. I just wasn't this year's champion.
 It's tough, I really like this golf course, and it's right there in front of me, and unfortunately I just couldn't do nothing with it.

 Q. What is it between you and the people out here, there seems to be instant bonding?
 BOO WEEKLEY: They're laid back and I'm laid back. And they like to goof off and holler and hoot just like I do.

 Q. Two years ago you came in and a lot of people don't know Boo Weekley, and now you're getting "Boo" wherever you go.
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah. A lot them do Ryder Cups and things like that. This is a good place to start at.

 Q. Was the walk down 18 different than the last two times?
 BOO WEEKLEY: It was a little less stressful. I'd have to say honestly I was a little remorseful, because I'm not the one that will be holding the trophy. I'm a little sad on that end, but at the same time it's all good.

 Q. Are we going to see you in the winning circle sometime soon?
 BOO WEEKLEY: I'm going to get there. I get that putter hot and the rest will take care of itself.

 Q. Just really your back was something that you didn't have the last two years that bothered you, how much of a factor was that this week?
 BOO WEEKLEY: It kind of got me the first two days. I was really worried about it, just sitting there thinking about it, what if I go to bed tonight and it does the same thing or what if I get up and step in a hole and tweak it again? Anything, like I said, it was mostly the muscles in my back, real tight. I just slept on it wrong.

 Q. The last two days were okay?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yes.

 Q. Would you say going back to when you came here for the Media Day and all, and you were limping pretty badly and you made a wrong step off a step or something like that, does this have anything to do with that?
 BOO WEEKLEY: No, that doesn't have nothing to do with it, no. That was just a bad step, I popped my hip. I didn't know my hip was out of whack. I went to see one of the guys in the trailer and they popped me back in and I was good to go then. I was so much better. And I came here, slept wrong the first night here and kind of put a kink in it.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT