VERIZON HERITAGE
April 16, 2009
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How proud are you of this opening round?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: I played well today. I hit the ball better than I thought I would. My back didn't hurt as bad as I thought it would when I started out today. Shots that I really had to go after with the driver and stuff like that, it hurts. But other than that, overall, it was a good day.  
  
  Q. Whenever an athlete is faced with an injury, confidence is one of the biggest things they have to face. When you were standing over a ball waiting to hit how confident were you that your back, your mind, and ultimately your shot was going to come through as you wanted it to?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: Some shots didn't. But you have to stand up there and believe it to swing at it.   
  
  Q. You hear a lot of the "Boos" around here. You could just about run for mayor of Hilton Head Island. How did it feel coming back to feel as a two-time defending champion?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: It feels good feeling. I'm hoping I can make it through. I'm striking the ball well enough. I'm starting to focus. You never know what could happen.  
  
  Q. Yesterday you were part of the caddying program, The Wounded Warriors Heading For a Cure. How special does it feel to be involved in that?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: It's an honor to be involved in it, the first thing. I think every player out here ought to be able to do it at least once.   
  
  Q. What do you give your round today?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: I give it about an A -- about an A-plus. I felt decent. Right now I felt fine. But it's like when I know I have to swing and have to go after it, it stings a little bit.  
  
  Q. How did that play into your round knowing that your back hurts?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: I'm not going to make excuses, but if it happens it happens. I just stood up there and tried to hit the best shot I could hit and then go from there.  
  
  Q. Looked like you were very close on a lot of shots?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yes. I feel comfortable when I'm here for some reason. I like the whole place. I missed some shots today that I thought I should have holed.   
 But overall it was a good round today for me.  
  
  Q. You're still within striking range after the first day, 2-under.   
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah, like on No. 8 and No. 9 I thought I hit the ball deep enough that I could have shot 4- or 5-under today.   
  
  Q. How will having a really early tee time tomorrow affect you?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: I don't know. I'm hoping that they're up early in that trailer so they can stretch me out.   
  
  Q. Looked like your round was going to get going -- looked like that chip in from the bunker on 2 was going to get you going and really jump-start you. Just couldn't take advantage of it probably the way you wanted to?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: No, in the next two holes the wind started blowing pretty good. And on the par-5, the next hole, I kind of stuck it in the bunker and it was just wasn't no shot. You just have to get it up-and-down.   
  
  Q. Seemed like every round you found a way to chip at least one of them in?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah. I don't know.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT