COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
January 21, 2009
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RODDY WILLIAMS: Boo, it's been a long time travelling here, and welcome to the Commercialbank Qatar Masters. Your first time here, and you're obviously delighted to be here, and welcome. If you could give us your thoughts on being here. 
 BOO WEEKLEY: I'm glad to be here. I've been meaning to do this last year. Last year we wanted to come over and play a couple of events on The European Tour and just get accustomed to what's really going on over here, because I wanted to be a full member or a half-member, whatever it was last year. 
 And then we decided about the middle of last year, that we decided we were going to come over here and try to play I think four events that we was looking at trying to play. This one and Dubai was going to be the two we was going to play over here, and then play Loch Lomond and the British Open was going to be the four, but it don't look like maybe going to get three of them. Doesn't look like I'm going to get Dubai in next year. Kind of disappointing there, fly over for one week and then turn around and fly back. 

 Q. Were you seeking an invitation to Dubai?
 BOO WEEKLEY: We were interested into it, but ended up I had to go back home for the PGA Show, is the reason why. I think that was already made up about three weeks ago to a month ago for me. 

 Q. We heard yesterday you were still seeking an invitation. 
 BOO WEEKLEY: Well, no, I can't now. I've got obligations. I've got to be back in Orlando. 

 Q. Given that you wanted to play, and you want to play, The Race to Dubai, and you need 12 events --
BOO WEEKLEY: That would have been one of them, but I'm pretty sure we'll find something later on that we can jump in on. (Chuckling).

 Q. But you're still planning on Loch Lomond?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yes, sir, we are looking into it. We are looking into going back ask playing Loch Lomond. I like that golf course. Maybe find a little closer than where I was staying last time I was there. It was about an hour and a half drive. (Laughter).

 Q. You had a great year last year with winning the Hertiage and The Ryder Cup?
 BOO WEEKLEY: It was good. It was long. I didn't have much of a break, what I consider a break for myself, you know, from the game, which you know, that's the price you pay I reckon for the fame or whatever you want to call it. 

 Q. Do you find you are more recognized now after The Ryder Cup?
 BOO WEEKLEY: A lot more, yes, sir. If I had not played in The Ryder Cup -- I wouldn't be here. At the same time, it's all good. You have to look at it as a plus, every time you get a chance or an invite to go some where, you've got to look at it as a plus and look forward, if you want to do it, at least you have the opportunity of being able to do it.
 RODDY WILLIAMS: How did you enjoy that Ryder Cup experience? 
 BOO WEEKLEY: I tell you what, it took me about a week to get over it, it really did. I got home that Monday, probably about I'd say eleven o'clock, 12 o'clock that day, and for about the first two hours, my little boy, I played with my kids and then I went up and laid down in my bed. 
 I've got a little loft in my room upstairs and I was sitting up there and just laying in it and I started crying and broke down from all the emotions finally coming out, what really happened. It's kind of hard to put into words how you really felt, but it was pretty impressive of what happened and what I captured of the memories and everything.
 RODDY WILLIAMS: You seemed to thrive on the crowds with the chanting of Boo, Boo, Boo, all the way around, you really thrive in that atmosphere. 
 BOO WEEKLEY: It was sort of different. I wish we had about four or five of them a year where the crowd can act like that and you can act like that. It ain't the fact of having to play them. I'm just talking about how the tournament was actually ran. 
 To me it was kind of real relaxing going out knowing that you are just going to play golf and you ain't got all this to worry about. It was pretty relaxing for me as a golfer. I think that's what made it so easy for me to play that way. 

 Q. Are you hoping to play at Celtic Manor next year then?
 BOO WEEKLEY: If I do, I do, you know. I'm just here to play the game so I can get what I want to get out of it and then I'm done. I love the competition. I love the fact of being able to go out and play and compete as good as I do, but at the same time, I hate it. I just hate it, you know what I mean? I hate to know that I've got to get up every morning and grind over something that it don't mean a hill of beans. It don't, later on, it don't. 

 Q. There are worse jobs?
 BOO WEEKLEY: You ain't kidding, I know that for about three years, I did it. 

 Q. What did you do?
 BOO WEEKLEY: I worked as a hydroblaster. Let's see, I did that for most of 2 1/2 years really, and then worked a little bit in the electrical department as a helper. But that hydroblasting, I don't care, that's one of the worst jobs anybody can do. 

 Q. Where were you doing that?
 BOO WEEKLEY: It was at a chemical plant in Montana. I got hired on in '94 and '97, I kind of raised my hand to get laid off. I was ready to go from there. 

 Q. What were you being paid for doing that?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Anywhere between -- well, I think it was like eight or nine dollars an hour, and plus working a lot of overtime. I was doing a lot of overtime, just making that extra cheese. I was going out and blowing it half the time, though. I'd be staying out all night drinking and partying. 
 It was a good part of my life. It taught me a lot, you know, about to respect what I've got now. 

 Q. With The Race to Dubai, you goal is to get into the Dubai World Championship in November?
 BOO WEEKLEY: I really don't know a whole lot about it to tell you the truth. I leave all that to my agent. Like I said, I just play the game, and if I get in this week, I get in, and if I don't, I don't. I'm too easy. I'm just laid back. I show up to play golf, and I play golf and when I'm done, I go to the next tournament. I get home and I put my golf clubs in the corner. I don't play golf. I go fishing or I go hunting. 

 Q. Do you think that playing more events around the world will make you a better player?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yes, sir, I do. My point of view, what I look at it for myself, at the end of the year, I want to be in the top 20 in the World Rankings, you know what I mean. If I can get there, I have accomplished my goals this year. Whether I win, lose or draw, still, that's my goal. Whether I make The Presidents Cup, whether I make The Ryder Cup or whatever I make, my whole goal is to get myself inside that top 20, because that opens up a lot more events for you.

 Q. What have you heard about the Commercialbank Qatar Masters and the course? 
 BOO WEEKLEY: I haven't heard nothing. I'm curious. 'M ready to get out there and see it. I heard to bring a pair of sunglasses in case the wind picks up and starts blowing some dust around. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS: Initial impressions of being here in Qatar, even though it's only been a few hours? 
 BOO WEEKLEY: First thing I did this morning, when I got up, I opened my curtains just to see what view I have, because when I got there it was dark and you really couldn't see what was outside. I got to watch the sun come up over the horizon there, so that was pretty, kind of like being at the beach, need a mai tai or something (laughs).
 RODDY WILLIAMS: Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT