MERCEDES-BENZ CHAMPIONSHIP
January 9, 2009
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How does it feel for what you've been playing?
 BOO WEEKLEY: It feels just a little firmer. I don't spin it quite as much, which is a good thing for me. I'm just curious to see what it's going to be like when I get on a little firmer greens, and something that ain't got quite as much slope, I should say, where you've got more of a back stop, I'm curious to see what it's going to be like. 

 Q. Let's go to the positive. For 17 holes, things went pretty well, wouldn't you say? 
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah, it was a good day. I just got aggravated. I just miss-read the last four or five putts coming in. I just had enough of it. 

 Q. You talked about how this is kind of a hard place to read the greens, and even last year was a little difficult. And this year, you have a better feel for it, but obviously it can come up and bite you at any time. 
 BOO WEEKLEY: It can. Like I said, I just got a little aggravated with myself. We are here to enjoy golf and what's going on and at the same time maybe win. But if you don't, it's all good. It's just getting ready for the regular season.

 Q. Even for 17 holes, you were in it, and even at 6-under, you are still in it. So after today, how do you approach tomorrow now?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Go out and do the same thing, and when I have a good chance to fire at the pin, I'll fire at it; and if not, just take chances on making pars and make some birdies on top of it.

 Q. When you say you're frustrated, was there something on 16 or 17, that maybe you were missing some putts?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Well, actually the whole back, I just miss-read the whole back side. I was playing either too much break or not enough break, and it started wearing on me. 
 Finally, right here, when I hit that putt on the front of the green, I miss-read it totally, 15 feet away, that's just a total miss-read. We should be pros and I should be better at this by now. But I just get aggravated.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT