THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2016
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ALEX URBAN: Boo, 9-under par through two rounds here at THE PLAYERS.  Talk about your play through two rounds.  You're one off the lead currently.   
BOO WEEKLEY: It's been pretty solid.  Last three weeks been pretty solid, actually I just felt like I haven't putted as well as I needed.  But overall, I've been making some putts, that's why I'm here.   
ALEX URBAN: We'll open it up for some questions.   
 Q.  Curious, the guys who went out yesterday afternoon didn't have very good days and have had real good mornings.  You were actually one that went out in the afternoon and yesterday played well.  
BOO WEEKLEY: I just hit it well.  That was the difference.  I hit it pretty close yesterday versus today, I feel.  I left myself today a lot more I would say 20 footers, stuff like that in and which of course I don't make too many of them.   
 Q.  What was the conditions yesterday afternoon compared to the morning?  
BOO WEEKLEY: Right out of the gate there wasn't no air this morning.  The wind wasn't blowing and you could fire at about all the pins.  The greens were a little soft still.   
Then I would say probably about hole 9 or 8 the ball started flying a little.  It started heating up the ball and the green started getting a little firmer.   
As the day went on I think the greens have gotten firmer and they're starting to brown out there.  They're starting to get that color to them again like we used to have in here.   
 Q.  Did you have better expectations of yourself over the course of your career on this course, especially since you have done so well at Hilton Head and a lot of guys that play well there on that Pete Dye course, a lot of times will play well here.  What's been holding you back on this course in the past?  
BOO WEEKLEY: I would have to say just actually keeping it in front of me, being patient here.  I haven't been real patient around this golf course.  And I've actually kind of struggled a little bit off the tee, around the greens.   
This week I've been doing pretty good.  I've been getting up-and-down, making some putts.  When I happen to chip -- still having 3-putts, but other than that, I'm just making the putts, the birdies that I normally don't make around here.   
 Q.  What do you do when you're not patient or what happens when you're not patient?  
BOO WEEKLEY: I just get in a hurry.  Just rush myself.   
 Q.  What does that result in?  What kind of shots?  
BOO WEEKLEY: Well usually it results in, like off the tee, it will be a shot that goes right.  And then usually with the irons it usually goes left.  Just rush my swing or then when I'm down at the bottom I speed up too fast with my driver and miss it right.   
 Q.  Some of your fellow players were out here this week in jogging pants and high-top shoes with bright colors on them.  Do you ever think about doing something like that?  
BOO WEEKLEY: No, that's not my cup of tea.  But if that's what they want to wear, that's all them.  That's them.   
 Q.  What do you think about it though for other players?  
BOO WEEKLEY: Who am I -- am I the fashion police?  I don't care.  I wear camo half the time.  They might not like that.  So it don't matter to me.   
 Q.  On those lines, the camo, you used to wear the sort of camo on your arms and stuff and then you were rocking the beard for a little while there.  What were some of the comments that you got from some of the wise guys in the gallery?  There's always somebody that wants to be acknowledged out there for saying something.  
BOO WEEKLEY: I don't pay attention to them.   
 Q.  Did you ever hear anything good?  
BOO WEEKLEY: I ain't heard nothing good.  Santa Claus.  Makes me look like I'm 60 years old.  I mean, it don't matter.   
 Q.  When did you get rid of the beard?  
BOO WEEKLEY: I think I shaved it off right before New Orleans, I was down there fishing at my house or down at the beach fishing, throwing my catch net.  And every time I threw it, the first time it snatched a bunch of my hairs out.  And I said, gosh darn, that kind of hurt.  So I said, I'll try it again and make sure I don't put my chin down there on it.  And I made it up and threw it again and it snatched a bunch more out.  And I said, this is done with this.  So I just walked back in from the pier, back in my condo, and I just took the clippers out and just shaved it all off.   
 Q.  You live in New Orleans or?  
BOO WEEKLEY: No, no, I live about three hours.  I live outside of Pensacola.  But I was at my beach house, a condo down at Navarro Beach, which is just an hour south of where I live.   
 Q.  Are you a better fisherman or golfer?  
BOO WEEKLEY: I don't know about that.  It all depends on what day it is.   
(Laughter.)   
It just all depends.  If you got a pond that's fully stocked, I can probably catch fish all day.   
 Q.  Did you ever take a rod over to the pond over here, around here?  
BOO WEEKLEY: Oh, yeah, we have been fishing around here for since I've been coming here.   
 Q.  What's the best one you ever caught or biggest one?  
BOO WEEKLEY: Biggest one I ever caught is about eight pounds.  I caught it actually the other day.  I'm staying in the Villas, just right outside -- when you go out this road here, you hit the road out there, whatever that road is out there, TPC Boulevard or whatever.   
 Q.  Just Bass, right?  
BOO WEEKLEY: Just Bass.  And we caught some where we're staying at, me and my caddie and his wife and a couple other caddies that are staying with us in the house, we have been fishing about every afternoon.   
 Q.  Does that relax you?  
BOO WEEKLEY: Oh, yeah.  Why wouldn't it?  Man, you ain't out here stressed out, all you got to do is worry about throwing it, just throw it in the water, you can throw the whole reel in the water and go fetch it, it doesn't matter.   
 Q.  Is golf stressful?  
BOO WEEKLEY: Oh, yeah, golf's very stressful, man, look at all these gray hairs I got on me.  I'm about bald up here.  If I was to shave it down, I would be.   
 Q.  Can you eat what you catch or do you got to throw it back?  
BOO WEEKLEY: You probably could.  I wouldn't.  It's all around these houses, and if you fry it, you probably could eat it, yeah.  You would have to kill all the bacteria and stuff in it.   
 Q.  Are you any good at that part?  Can you cook?  
BOO WEEKLEY: Cooking?  Yeah, I can cook it up, buddy.  However you want it.  We can saute, we can do anything you want to do to it.   
 Q.  What do you suspect is going to happen with this golf course on the weekend, if we don't get rain or anything?  
BOO WEEKLEY: It's going to be get a little firmer.  The fairways are already pretty firm.   
In the afternoon I was hitting some drives yesterday that I ain't even never been in some of those spots off the tee.  You standing there trying to think about is it 4-iron or 5-iron into 11.  Well, we're used to hitting 5-wood or 3-wood or hybrid.  And you're debating whether it's 5-iron, 6-iron, what do you want to fire in there.  So there's no telling.  If them greens get firm like that it's going to be interesting.   
 Q.  People will sit back and say, oh, my God, that course is so easy, this and that.  What's the challenge of knowing when you tee it up that guys are going to score and you have to go, you have to get in red numbers, you have to get in the 60s, what type of challenge is that?  
BOO WEEKLEY: I don't think it's as much of a challenge as just going out and trying to play the golf course the best that you can play it.  If you're hitting it well, yes, you're going to make birdies because you're going to hit it close.  You could be hitting it bad and putting is good and you're still going to make some birdies.   
So, I don't look at it as other guys have done this or done that, all I can do is go out and play the best that I can play that day.  It's just like, before even I teed off, Jason Day was at 9-under.  I was thinking to myself, all right, well, there's, to me, I thought there's three or four holes out there I know that are birdie holes.  Just through my mind, all right, if I can shoot 2-under on the front and 2-under on the back, I feel like I've had a good day.   
I ain't looking at no 9-under, I'm just looking at trying to make sure I just do my part and what I prepared myself for and to go out and play golf and hit the shots that I want to do.  And do what I have accomplished.   
ALEX URBAN: All right.  Thank you.   
BOO WEEKLEY: Yes, sir.  Thank you, guys.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT