STANFORD ST. JUDE CHAMPIONSHIP
June 8, 2008
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Boo, you gave it a heck of an effort down the stretch. One shot short it looks like. Good tournament.
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah, it was a good tournament. Unfortunately, I hit a bad shot on 14 there, kind of stuck me in a bad position. Don't want to be above that hole. I thought I hit a perfect bunker shot. I ended up just missing a few putts coming in. 

 Q. I know you're tired; Joe, your caddy is tired. What do you take away from a week like last week? You lost a lot of weight?
 BOO WEEKLEY: I need to lose a lot of weight. It gets me ready for next week. I got a little confidence going into next week. Maybe I can go in there and play a good course.

 Q. Good thing about being in Memphis, we know where to go to put the weight back on in?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yes, sir. What's that restaurant?

 Q. Rendezvous?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yes, sir. That's some good food down there.

 Q. Boo, given the time you played on Thursday so early, are you disappointed?
 BOO WEEKLEY: I am a little, yes. I mean, like on Friday I didn't hit the ball as well. I didn't really putt the ball that well, and the last two days I've hit the ball pretty decent. I hit it in some spots where you can't score.

 Q. Momentum going into Torrey now?
 BOO WEEKLEY: I think I got a little going. I'm hitting ball on some of the lines that I like, you know what I mean, with my driver and irons. I'm starting to get where I'm feeling a little more confident with what I'm trying to do with the ball and putting the ball decent. That helps out a hell of a whole lot. 

 Q. What comparisons to Torrey can you take out of here?
 BOO WEEKLEY: I hope I can carry it over with what I've got.

 Q. So close there, maybe get that birdie to go on 18, maybe a playoff, that close.
 BOO WEEKLEY: Well, I was a little further than that, but we hit a good second shot in there. Carried a little further than I thought. I thought it was going to be about pin high with the distance. I left myself some tough putts coming down the stretch. If I would have hit it on the right side of the hole, I probably would have had a better chance.

 Q. Give me your overall feelings you have on your round today.
 BOO WEEKLEY: I was pretty impressed. The way I've been hitting it on the range this morning, I didn't think I was going to be able to do much. Trying to get out early this morning, getting an early start, make a couple birdies here and there and had some good opportunities but just didn't capitalize on them. 
 I made on 7 and 8 there, I made two good putts. On 11, I made a good putt. From there on it was just like where did it go, I lost it somewhere. It's all right. That's part of golf.

 Q. Did you think there was a score you were shooting for that you thought maybe would win this thing?
 BOO WEEKLEY: I told myself if I can get it to 5, I had a good chance.

 Q. What is it like to have that following you on this course, and wherever you go, to have Boo Weekley fans lined up to watch you?
 BOO WEEKLEY: It's awesome. It's a nice feeling that you have people pulling you. Not just back home but all people out on the road.

 Q. Where do you think that comes from?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Just my nature. I mingle with them sometimes. You know what I mean? Up here I got -- I probably got 25 to 30 friends and family here. Go to the Open, got a little momentum going that way and hoping I can carry it over from this week and see if we can keep it up.

 Q. How did this course compare to the Open course?
 BOO WEEKLEY: I don't think it really compares. It did a little bit because the wind broke a little bit off the water and the fairways will be a little narrower. I think that little bit helps.

 Q. Is the experience overall here in Memphis in this tournament, was that very positive for you?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Oh yeah. Being able to be close to home with the family being up here.

 Q. What about Majors?
 BOO WEEKLEY: The ones I played in before I always played in, yeah. You got to get out and play golf. I go out and play, and whether I miss the cut or make the cut, it's golf. We go to the next tournament and play it.

 Q. The competition --
 BOO WEEKLEY: Just competition. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT