STANFORD ST. JUDE CHAMPIONSHIP
June 5, 2008
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOAN vt ALEXANDER: I'd like to thank Boo Weekley for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center at the Stanford St. Jude Championship. Terrific start to the week. Tough conditions. 5-under par. Birdie on that last hole. Just talk about a little bit about what you did well and how the conditions were out there.  
 BOO WEEKLEY: I drove the ball well today for a change. You have to play, and my irons were superb. I hit them real good, and then my putting, putting was excellent today. I drove the ball real well.  
 Lot of good lines.  
 JOAN vt ALEXANDER: Any long putts that you made that were crucial?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah. I made one on that long Par-4 on the back, 14? Yeah, 14, I made about a 10-foot -- actually about 10, 11-footer there to save par, and that was kind of -- kept the momentum going.  
 JOAN vt ALEXANDER: Questions, please?  
  
  Q. Boo, you talked out there about coming out Saturday and have a chance to be on the greens. How much did that play into today?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: Saturday? Oh, yeah. It had a lot. I mean, because I went out, kind of knew where the pins were, I went around there and hit a lot of putts Saturday and Sunday. I played I think nine holes Saturday and 18 on Sunday, and just, you know, riding around out here. Being able to go and practice by yourself on a golf cart makes it a lot easier. You're not as tired, and you can work a little bit more out there.  
  
  Q. Again, this is a tournament that I guess holds fond memories for you. Talk about when you come back to this event, what kind of thoughts go through your head.  
 BOO WEEKLEY: First, usually the first thought usually comes to my head is that 63 I shot, the last day on Sunday in '02; you know, can I do that again? Can I do it somewhere in the round?  
 I was hitting it good then, and I made some putts. Just I had a bad Saturday, I think if I remember right in '02. Last year I struggled so bad with my putting, and that's what caused me to miss the putt here. I hit it good, I just struggled with the putting.  
  
  Q. What prompted you to come in a little early for the weekend, and you mentioned how helpful that was. Do you think that's something that can maybe help you keep it rolling a little bit more?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: What prompted me, I missed the cut at Memorial. (Laughter). I didn't want to hang around over there, you know. But I like Memphis. Back down here to the South, and I like the people around here, and just being able to come out and play, you know, early, gives up -- might not be an advantage, but least gives up a little bit of a head start on what's going to happen the rest of the week, you know. And I think I took that to my advantage today, and the wind has been blowing the same since Saturday as it is today.  
 Went out and played just like I did in the practice rounds. Hit a lot of good shots.  
  
  Q. How tough is the wind? Is it troublesome out there now?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah, it's pretty tough. I mean, luckily I hit the ball kind of low so it really didn't affect me as much except like when I teed it up with a driver. On 17, I don't know if you've been out there, on the left-hand side there's a big tree. I literally started it 40 yards left of where my ball ended up. I try to hit a little draw, but it won't hold into that wind. Just push it all the way across the fairway.  
  
  Q. Boo, looked like the staff watered the greens maybe a little bit extra for you guys today. Did it look like they were holding pretty good? Do you think that it was related to the conditions that were forecast?   
 BOO WEEKLEY: I see that it could be, yes, sir. I mean, there's a couple holes out there the greens are firmer than others. But I hope they do it everyday because that wind, you know, wind keeps blowing like it is and they don't water, it could get funny out there.  
  
  Q. Boo, how much are you enjoying this second Tour, being on Tour after Nationwide? Is it more -- you appreciate it more?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: Oh, yes, sir, a lot more. Kind of got a lot more respect for what I'm doing, you know, and just coming out and saying, hey, it's just golf.  
 I do say that, but at the same time, it's more work than it is playing. I think when I came out the first time I was so used to playing on the mini tours and goofing off everyday when I got done and gone fishing or something else.  
 Now I think it's more about put all of my attention what I'm trying to get done, which is golf. It's become a job now.   
 JOAN vt ALEXANDER: You want to go through the round real quick. You made birdied on No. 1.  
 BOO WEEKLEY: I made birdie on No. 1. It was probably, I'd say it was about a 20-footer. Pretty good putt. Good thing the hole got in the way. (Laughter).  
 No. 2 I hit a good second shot in there below the hole probably about 12 feet and poured it right in.  
 JOAN vt ALEXANDER: Bogey on 4.  
 BOO WEEKLEY: That hole has been giving me a lot of problems over the past years that I've played here. I hit it in the bunker and then chopped it out and got it up there about 6 feet and then just misread it. On 10, I hit a good second shot in there with an 8-iron about 11 feet behind the hole there and made it. Then on 12, I thought I holed it there and little 9-iron in there. Had a 4, 5-footer.  
 JOAN vt ALEXANDER: 16?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: 16, I hit driver, 3-iron into the center front of the green there and 2-putted it.  
 On 18, hit wedge in there about 11, 12 feet just right of the hole and picked a good line there and made it. Pretty good putting today.  
 JOAN vt ALEXANDER: Any more questions?  
  
  Q. One more thing about the winning, how much confidence has that given you as you go into this part of the year?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: Well, it gives me a lot of confidence, but, I mean, this one and the next tournament, the U.S. Open I'm done for a month. I'm going to take a month off. I got a newborn going to be here, and I want to take a little time and see if I can help out around the house.  
  
  Q. Do you have a psychologist or a mental coach?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: No, ma'am (laughter). No, I don't.  
  
  Q. What's your mental strategy when you play? How -- what do you do when you get frustrated?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: I hum a little bit every now and then, or I'll laugh, just kind of laugh it off like just something bad happens. It's just golf.  
 I mean, I don't know. I just do it. You handle it different situations different times. I mean, I'm aggravated out there all the time anyway.  
  
  Q. What's like the most dramatic reaction you ever had to a shot?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: I'd say I stuck a few golf clubs in the bag, you know, like actually stuff them through the bag (laughter). I've broken a few. I've beat them across a tree or two. Yeah, I've been mean. I reach my point and something has got to go, you know, and usually that's me leaving that afternoon, getting on a plane.  
 JOAN vt ALEXANDER: Everybody all set?   
 Thank you, Boo, for joining us.  
 BOO WEEKLEY: You're very welcome. Thank you all.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT