THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2016
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Is this a golf course you feel comfortable on?  
BOO WEEKLEY: I mean, I've played well here in the past, you know, but yeah.  I mean, this is a golf course I think I can play well on if I can just get it in front of me, keep it in front of me and just give myself the opportunities on the greens.  I haven't made -- I felt like I've put it about 50 percent this week so far.  I don't feel like I've really made anything spectacular versus I should have made a couple small ones.  You know what I mean?  But at the same time, it all evens out.   
 Q.  Did the greens play a little bit softer today?  Did you notice that?  
BOO WEEKLEY: The front side did a little bit.  As the day got on, the wind picked up and it started to dry out a little bit.  They're getting that brown tinge.  I really noticed it on 14.  14 was really starting to get a little firmer.  I hit a shot in there, I think we had like 183, I hit a 7-iron in there, it probably landed about 172, 174, something like that, right there and released all the way out to the pin.  So that's good.  Usually that's the way this golf course plays is a little firmer.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the diet and fitness?  What's been the bigger thing, the diet or actually working out?  
BOO WEEKLEY: I'd say -- I mean, it ain't been a big deal by no means.  It's just been a change.  I mean, everybody goes through a change.  Like this month I've taken off from -- no alcohol, but working out.  We work out maybe once or twice a week, and then just kind of don't eat as much as I normally do.  Just cut back a little bit on eating.  And it's showed so far; I've lost 20 pounds.   
 Q.  Do you feel the difference when you're actually playing?  
BOO WEEKLEY: I feel the difference, yeah.  I still don't think my knees are strong yet.  I've still got a little problem with my knees.  But other than that, it's pretty good.  My back hasn't hurt as much as it used to.  So it's been pretty good so far.   
 Q.  Was it important to you to come out and birdie the first hole to sort of keep the momentum going from yesterday?  
BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah, I mean, I just hit it close.  I birdied the first hole, and I three-putt the next hole for par.  Like I said, we had a lot of good looks on the front side, just didn't do nothing with it.  I drove it in a bad spot on 5 and just kind of let myself not real well trying to get it up-and-down, just didn't have a chance really, and then three-putted again on No. 8.  You take the three-putts out, and here we are, it's two shots difference.   
 Q.  When you look at your putting stats from last week on very, very difficult greens, how much confidence did you get from that?  You putted really well.  
BOO WEEKLEY: See, to me I didn't feel like I putted really well.  I'm struggling with my speed right now, like going uphill, downhill.  Like going uphill I'm leaving it anywhere from four to seven foot short, 10 foot short on a longer putt, and then going downhill I'm knocking it by four or five foot every time.  I'm just struggling with just a little bit of speed issue right now, and it feels like if I can get that down, then I feel like I've got a chance to win this week.   
I mean, I'm hitting it good enough the last couple weeks, even in New Orleans I hit it good, I just didn't make nothing.  It's just one of them things, right now the putter just don't feel as good as it should.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT