MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2008
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Can you wrap up the day first of all for us?
 BOO WEEKLEY: The day was long. It was long. I wasn't hitting it all that well today. I struggled. I struggled with the putter on the greens too. So that made it even longer. 

 Q. Talk about your day out there?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Well, you think a lot of things, you have to hit it high, hit it low. Like I had 170 up there and had to hit a 9-iron. That's crazy golf when you got that much wind blowing. Fighting all the other stuff flying in the air. 

 Q. The wind like it was today has it been ever that fierce before?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Oh, yeah, not here, but last year at the Hilton Head the wind blew a little harder than this. But it's just, I ain't hitting it on all cylinders today so that makes it worse. You mishit a shot in the wind, the wind just takes full affect on it.

 Q. Does it kind of build-up, like all the bad shots or bad outcomes add up or were you able to put each one behind you?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Oh, I put it behind me. It's just golf. One way or the other, you know, as long as I just get done without breaking something or hurting somebody, I mean that's my goal. 

 Q. Talk about your first trip here and what that, what this means. 
 BOO WEEKLEY: It's great. The big picture is as the week went on, the more comfortable I felt with the crowds and everything. Because it's pretty wild. You stand over one hole and there's people, you got another hole right there beside you, now you got to back away because they're hollering or something. I don't think there's too many other golf courses that we play that's like that. So you got to think a lot what's going on around you instead of just standing up there and trying to get in your own zone.

 Q. What are some of your memories of this week?
 BOO WEEKLEY: I think just all the people mostly just it's unreal, it's a pretty golf course. The greens were, today the greens were faster than they were all week. I think a lot of that had to do with the wind drying them out a little bit and you get down wind, down grain, it just sped up even more. And then you're putting in into the wind it was slower. So it made a big affect. 
 But I would say overall it's just amazing to be here. After looking at it going back 12 years from now looking at me working at the plant and saying, hey, you know, I want to play in the Masters? Yeah. 

 Q. Are you ready to, are you looking forward now to defending, are you prepared for next week?
 BOO WEEKLEY: No, I'll be ready. This is my first tournament back out. I had two weeks to depress last week, I had two weeks to do all that. So I'm ready to play five in a row and play golf. 

 Q. What were you talking about with Zach as you walked up 18. Did you have a chance to talk to the other players and soak it all in?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Zach, we're friends. We both know where we came from. We know, he played the mini tours, just like I did. So we know how hard it is to get here. On the way up we were laughing, I was laughing with him, you know, it was about, this is his first win, the Masters, not his first win, but the first Major win, and it was pretty cool when I won. He was with me when I won. So we were just laughing about that. 

 Q. You finished up nicely again on 18. 
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah. 

 Q. It looks like you had a good focus right there at the end of a long day. 
 BOO WEEKLEY: We hit it close on 17. We just misread that putt. We had a putt from about here to there and I don't know how far it's, but just missed that. And we hit one right here on the last hole and we made our birdie. So that's been the problem, just reading them. I would say it was close to 20, 18 feet something like that. 

 Q. How about the birdie on 6, the par-3. What did you hit?
 BOO WEEKLEY: I watched Zach hit 7-iron and he kind of got it up in the air a little bit and the wind pushed it over to the right front portion of the green. And then I figured I had hit the same club and flight it a little lower and just kind of take it right at it and keep it below the trees where the wind won't touch it. And that's what I did. I would say it was probably about three foot. 

 Q. Is there anything you will do different when you come back next time?
 BOO WEEKLEY: I focus a little harder on the greens. I would like to go back out and redo the greens again at this pace. I don't know if they keep them at this pace year round, but I don't think, I don't think I don't see how they would, the members wouldn't enjoy it. 

 Q. If you were a regular golfer playing this course would you want to play this course?
 BOO WEEKLEY: No. No. We had a good question about that. Zach and them brought up, they said if this were just a regular event or Damon Green brought it up, the caddie, he brought it up, he said, if this was just a regular event like the John Deere, whatever, and they had it here, how many players do you think would play this or skip it. I mean think about it. To me that's a good question. I mean that's how -- you know, I'll leave the rest of the end of that alone. 

 Q. It's an amazing place. 
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yes, sir, it is that. 

 Q. Heath shot a 69 here. 
 BOO WEEKLEY: Really? Good playing. Where does that put him at? 

 Q. 5-over for the Tournament. 
 BOO WEEKLEY: How about Bubba? How did he finish? 

 Q. 73 and 3-over. 
 BOO WEEKLEY: Well there you go.

 Q. You guys are right together. 
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah. That's good. We had a pretty good showing for us first time playing here, I think. 

 Q. Bubba said you guys didn't have any side bets or who would do better out of the three of you. 
 BOO WEEKLEY: Well, I don't know, it's just, I don't bet. I'm not a betting man, really. He does all that, I just play. 

 Q. You have any special memories of anything that happened over the course of the week?
 BOO WEEKLEY: No.

 Q. Family enjoyed it?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Oh, yeah, we all had a good time, you know. It's been fun. And I'm going to go get in my vehicle and I'm going to go drive on over there. And we'll see you there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT