MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2008
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   BOO WEEKLEY: It was a good round today. I actually putted today. I've been hitting it pretty solid, it's just finally whether some putts started falling.  
  
  Q. Talk about that first birdie. You sort of had to come up that shelf there. Is that sort of what got you rolling?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: It kind of did, yes. I think it got me jump-started. I finally saw the one go in from a distance instead of the normal two- or three-footers, and I finally got to see one go in from a distance.  
  
  Q. You really had it going before that delay there. Did that mess with you at all? What did you do for those 20 minutes?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: No, I mean, it didn't mess with me, it just kind of slows it down, the course out there. Especially when we just got into a pretty good rhythm there. But it happens. You can't control the weather.  
  
  Q. Where were you when they had to suspend play?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: I was on 5 I think it was.  
  
  Q. You had teed off?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah, I teed off and I was in the fairway up there.  
  
  Q. It's something you're used to in Milton?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah, I'm used to the rain, yeah.  
  
  Q. It can pop up and head out pretty quick.   
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Now, shaving the goatee, was that for good luck?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: I don't know, I think my wife kind of told me it kind of started looking hideous. She's like, it's time to either trim it up or take it off, so I didn't have no trimmers with me so I just went ahead and took it off.  
  
  Q. How about that shot on 13? What did you hit there?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: I hit a 3-iron and I had -- I think we had like 238, 230, something like that, to the hole, and we knew it was enough to cover the center part of the green, and that was our goal, just try and hit it on the green, the center of the green. I turned it over, and the way it looked when it first shot out, I thought I hooked it too much. But it turned out pretty good. We just misread the putt, but that happens out here on these greens.  
  
  Q. Can you tell us about some of your other birdies today?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: You're going to have to tell me where they're at. Oh, No. 8, I hit driver, 3-wood. First time I hit that fairway this week. I've been struggling hitting the fairway there. Finally hit the fairway there and I hit it about 20 yards from the green and chipped it up to about ten inches and tapped it in.  
 On No. 3 there I had one. I hit driver off the tee there and had a perfect yardage. I think it was 80 yards, and hit lob wedge in there to about ten feet, kind of below the hole, kind of putting it right up the grain.   
 13 was 3-wood, 3-iron and then just two-putt there.  
 And then on 15, I hit driver, 5-wood and just trying to hit it more in the center of the green there and I pushed it a little bit and kind of got in the right center of the green, and that left for a pretty good tough putt there. I made about a ten-footer there.  
  
  Q. You had the best shot I saw approaching 13 of all the groups before you and leading up to you. Were you thinking today you had to be a little bit more adventurous to make up some ground?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: No, we're still focusing on fairways and hitting the center of the greens and letting everybody else mess up. That's the way I look at it. I mean, I don't think you can go wrong if the putter don't work like it did yesterday. You kind of get stuck like I did, putting three or four times having three-putts. That kind of hurts.  
  
  Q. How much did you miss eagle by on that putt?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: About three inches to the left, four inches.  
  
  Q. Did you have a bunch of those today?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: What?   
  
  Q. Birdie putts that just kind of --  
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yes. I hit it pretty solid today. We misread -- we should have birdied 2. We had a pretty good look at it. 4 there, we had a real good look at it; 5, same thing; 6; I don't know about 7 -- yeah, 7, pulled it. I thought it was going to break left and it went right.  
  
  Q. 18 you finished up there with a nice save for par?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah, that was pretty good.  
  
  Q. I know obviously you've got to be pleased with 68, but I think you hit every green on the front nine. When you're missing those putts do you start to just feel --  
 BOO WEEKLEY: No, not on these greens because everybody ain't going to make them because these greens are very difficult to read because you've got to have the right speed and everything.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like you're learning these greens pretty well?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: I wouldn't say that. I just said today, we read them pretty good today, even though we misread them, but I hit it close enough to where we gave ourselves the opportunity to make the putts.  
  
  Q. Have you moved into your house yet?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: No.  
  
  Q. Still a couple months away?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: I don't know. I don't know. I ain't been -- everybody is here but me this week, so I don't know what all of the process has gotten done, but it can't be too much longer. Shouldn't be but another week or two weeks I'm hoping.  
  
  Q. Your mom says she's excited to play with you in the Pro-Am but she's also nervous she'll embarrass you. What do you think of that?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: She will not embarrass me. That's my mom. How could she embarrass me? I'll be the one embarrassing her. Ain't the kids supposed to embarrass the parents?   
  
  Q. When they're three, yeah. But she'll be fine?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: Oh, yeah, she'll be fine.  
  
  Q. Are conditions any different? How were they different than the first two days?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: I think the rain kind of slowed the greens down a little bit, made them a little softer. Of course, you can kind of hit them in there a little closer to the pin. The fairways are a little softer, so the ball, you'll still get a little roll but a little bit of mud on your ball here and there, so you've got to be careful.   
  
  Q. What did you do during the delay?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: Nothing, just sat over there on No. 6 or right behind No. 5 green there. They've got a bathroom there, and we sat right there and went and got some crackers and some water.  
  
  Q. Did you guys talk about anything?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: No, I sat out in the rain with an umbrella.  
  
  Q. Like hunting and having to wait the rain out?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah, you're still hunting, you're just sitting there.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT