MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2008
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Nice way to finish there?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah, that was great. We hit that putt during the practice round, so we kind of had an idea of what it was going to do. 

 Q. You almost hit the hole before the ball. 
 BOO WEEKLEY: You never know. 

 Q. Talk about your play here today. 
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah, I struggled today. I struggled today with the putter. That's the reason why I shot 2-over. I hit the ball pretty solid, except up there on 18. But all day I hit the ball pretty good, I just putted pretty bad. I think I had three or four 3-putts. 

 Q. What kind of view did you have coming in for your second shot?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Just had to take it over that right behind the leaderboard there, the oak tree there, but I didn't even see the leaderboard behind it. 

 Q. What were some opportunities that you had makeable putts for birdies, I know it was hard to get there, but were there many?
 BOO WEEKLEY: I had it like on 16, 15, and 14. There was three in a row right there that I felt like I had it with about 12 feet, you know. And I 3-putted there on 15, so. And then on, let's see, 11 and 12 I had it about 10, 12 feet and just didn't get it going, you know. 

 Q. Was it just trying to read the greens with the new pin placements?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Well it was just the speed. My speed was off today. I ran it by a little bit or I knocked it or left it short or something all day today. It's just part of golf. 

 Q. The birdie though was No. 2?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah, No. 2. 

 Q. What happened there?
 BOO WEEKLEY: I just hit it in the bunker there and then just chipped it right out to the fringe and it rolls back down and left me about I think about a 5-footer there. 

 Q. Yesterday you were talking about the greens, that they would get firmer as the week went on. Were they much different than yesterday?
 BOO WEEKLEY: No, they were about the same. I think they got a little faster today than they were yesterday. Either that or they, I hit it in the worst places. They were faster to me anyway. 

 Q. So you had a rules official following you around the turn, did y'all get put on the clock?
 BOO WEEKLEY: I think they warned us a couple times, yes. 

 Q. Talk about how Trevor played today, was he kind of setting the standard for what you do out there today?
 BOO WEEKLEY: He's just playing solid right now. He's playing real good golf. He's putting the ball well, he's leaving himself in some good places where he can get it up-and-down if he does miss it. So he's just playing some solid golf.

 Q. Do you think your round is going to be good enough to keep you around?
 BOO WEEKLEY: I don't know, it's going to be close.

 Q. What will you do the next couple hours? Wait and see those scores come in?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Go eat, go back to the house and hang out. Swim, maybe. 

 Q. What you did you think about Snedeker being up there. Is he a good player, a good guy?
 BOO WEEKLEY: I think it's great. He's a good player. And these kind of golf courses set up for him. The faster the greens, he has a real good imagination on the greens. So it sets up pretty good with his putter.

 Q. He always seems like a pretty quiet guy. Do you talk to him back and forth with him out there much?
 BOO WEEKLEY: We talk a little. I don't want to get in his way or anything, and he feels the same way. That's the one thing we got out there amongst the players we don't want to get in each other's way. We talk a little bit, when they want to talk, and if they don't want to talk, we don't say nothing.

 Q. What do you and he talk about?
 BOO WEEKLEY: We just talk about, he asked me earlier if -- I got a newborn fitting to be here in about the first of July and we was talking about that. And he had to fly back home on his, from the British, so that's what we talked a little bit about that. 

 Q. Has anything anyone said to you leading up to the Masters turned out to be really true or too true. Like anybody warn you about anything or any advice you got kind of has really helped you out?
 BOO WEEKLEY: No. No. 

 Q. Where you said, now I know what they're talking about?
 BOO WEEKLEY: No.

 Q. You're just kind of figuring it out as you go?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Figure it out as you go.

 Q. What have you figured out so far?
 BOO WEEKLEY: These greens are fast. 

 Q. I agree. How you did on 18, does that carry over a little bit to tomorrow?
 BOO WEEKLEY: It will, it will. I chipped the ball pretty good today when I was off the greens. And every little bit helps. Every little bit is like a confidence booster, especially on golf courses like this. So it may carry over, maybe, if we get in. 

 Q. So tee to green was pretty good today it was just on the greens then?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah, I just struggled a little bit with the putter, the line, the speed and you got to be careful out here. 

 Q. Have you seen greens similar to this?
 BOO WEEKLEY: I would say last year at Oakmont. The greens there were something else. That was pretty, I don't know if y'all were there, but. They were pretty rough too. 

 Q. Similar not just speed but slope as well?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah. You had to know where you were going with it. You had to find where the grain is and if you found where the grain is, then you got it. 

 Q. Was it a hawk flying over number 17?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah, his shadow came right over my ball right when I was fitting to get ready to draw it back.

 Q. Is that -- well that could happen anywhere, I guess, but you were alert to it I guess, even though you're so focused?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Well, yeah, I mean the moment was right when he come over. So I just figured I should back away now. If it was an eagle, it would have been great. Last year I needed a couple eagles. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT