MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2008
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk about your round.
 BOO WEEKLEY: I hit a lot of good shots, but had some bad putts outs there. But overall really happy about how I played. 

 Q. Talk about 18. 
 BOO WEEKLEY: We got lucky there. I hit a drive and kind of pushed it a little bit up under the hillside there and got up there and there was a sprinkler head. It was right behind the ball. So I kind of got relief and got it back down into the fairway there. And I dropped it and then I had a perfect yardage and hit a 5-iron right up there about 15 feet and just right of the hole, 20 feet, and I got a good read off of Sean. Sean had the same line as I did, but about 25, 30 feet and I just followed his line, but I hit a little less speed. 

 Q. Was that one just came up short there on 15?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah.

 Q. It looked like that frustrated you?
 BOO WEEKLEY: No, it didn't. Actually, I just pushed that putt a little bit. And I thought it was a par-4, to tell you the truth. I did. I thought the hole was a par-4, I didn't know it was a par-5. So.

 Q. You talk about this is just another tournament. But do you still feel that way?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Well, it's a Major. And it's the whole goal was just try to keep it in front of you and a lot of pars don't hurt you. I don't know what all the scores are, but I can see that par ain't going to hurt you any Major I played in so far. 
 That is my goal. Just go out and play golf and just treat it as another tournament.

 Q. Do you feel different or do you look at the scoreboard differently?
 BOO WEEKLEY: No, just another golf course. 

 Q. Amen Corner is coming back to hurt a lot of players. 
 BOO WEEKLEY: What's Amen Corner? Is it 12? Why is that a corner? It should be 12, 13, and 14, shouldn't it? Well you got me there. 

 Q. Did you get a peak at the scoreboard before you went out?
 BOO WEEKLEY: No, I just heard it. I heard that he was at 2 and bogeyed No. 9. I think I did the same thing he did, 3-putted it, so. I don't know how he finished up. I hope he finished well. 

 Q. Did you get bothered on the 3-putt on number 9? I heard there was some noise. 
 BOO WEEKLEY: No, no you block out all that out. As long as it ain't a roar or nothing it's pretty easy. You're going to hear it all day out here. This place is pretty crowded. So.

 Q. Going to do anything special tonight?
 BOO WEEKLEY: No, just going to go home and cook some pork chops. 

 Q. Are you the cook?
 BOO WEEKLEY: I don't know. All depends on my brother-in-law. He cooked the hamburgers last night so I might be stuck with the pork chops. 

 Q. Any vegetables?
 BOO WEEKLEY: I don't know. I'm a meat and tater man, I ain't much on no vegetables. 

 Q. Do you keep in touch with anyone from way back?
 BOO WEEKLEY: No. I can't even tell you. Don't know too many people from down there. When I left out of there I was on fire, you know. 

 Q. Did you ever play any courses down there?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Oh, not that I can remember. 

 Q. Do you enjoy playing this course?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah, it's, the greens are just difficult. To me they're difficult. But the layout's great. It's a great layout. 
 Some holes are stretched a little bit, but you got to be focused all the way around this whole golf course. You can't relax like I did on 17 there, I relaxed a little bit and was trying to hit a shot instead of just focusing on the center of the green, which is my game plan, and I kind of got a little careless there and made a bogey. So.

 Q. You made a nice recovery though. 
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah. 

 Q. Did that all just keep rolling and rolling and rolling? What happened?
 BOO WEEKLEY: It just rolled over, yeah. It was just, that was just a bad place, you get above the hole and down grain you're going to try to make bogey is the best you can to get out of there.

 Q. Any adjustments you're going to make in your game for tomorrow?
 BOO WEEKLEY: No. They're going to move the pins, so it's going to be the same thing all over. I'm going to try to go out here with the same game plan.

 Q. Is that fair?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Oh, yeah. Yeah. 

 Q. Keeping it simple, is it easier said than done as you get further round by round?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Probably. I think it is. I mean the main thing is just focus on the center of the green. Hit the fairway, focus on hitting the fairway first and then get up there and focus on hitting the green. Just get it in the right tier, just in the center of the green, and just try to go from there. 

 Q. You got pretty good following here, some people from back home following, how much does that mean to you to be able to kind of share that experience?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Oh, it's, you can't believe it. You're standing out there, I'm standing out here, it's unreal. 

 Q. Some people said, "Way to go Bo."
 BOO WEEKLEY: Yeah, well they don't understand the last O, I guess. 

 Q. How about playing with Trevor and Sean, were you able to relate to them and kind of use what they were doing to help your game?
 BOO WEEKLEY: No. We just, we just played our own game. Trevor played real solid today. He could have easily shot 7-under. I mean easily. 8-under, he probably could have shot better than that maybe. He hit it solid today. 

 Q. How close contact do you stay with Heath now days?
 BOO WEEKLEY: Oh, we talk at least once or twice a week. 

 Q. Do you play together?
 BOO WEEKLEY: We play practice rounds together and then plus when we're off on each other we still call each other and talk when he's at home or I'm at home.

 Q. I know you been asked probably 10 million times, who was a better high school player?
 BOO WEEKLEY: He was.

 Q. What did he do better?
 BOO WEEKLEY: He just got it in the hole. Just like he is now. He's a scrappy dude. This golf course is a little long for him, you know, and he goes around there and plays the front side 2- or 3-under and that's pretty good.

 Q. The chances back then that both of you guys would be playing in this event?
 BOO WEEKLEY: I don't know that one. I don't know that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT