THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2016
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BOO WEEKLEY: I felt like I played real well.  The front side I missed -- the very first hole right out of the gate I missed one from about two and a half feet, and I thought, oh, boy, here we go again with the putter.  Actually I kind of hung in there and shook it off, and I made some putts on the front side, my front side, which was the back side, and then just kind of hung around on the back side.
Q. When you made the turn you had three birdies in a row.  Did that get things going for you on the back?
BOO WEEKLEY: I got it going early there, and then I just got to where I couldn't make none.  I felt like I hit a lot of good putts, just I left it a little short or hit it a little too hard through the break.  Overall I'm pleased with the way I played.  It's been a long time coming.  It's been something that I've been playing real well, just I ain't -- haven't gotten nothing out of my game the last couple weeks, last month really, and finally it showed up a little bit today.
Q. Great time for it to show up.
BOO WEEKLEY: Yes, ma'am, it is.  I need about three more days like it and it'll be real good.
Q. 6-under par, bogey-free.  How do you feel about that round?
BOO WEEKLEY: Man, that's a great round out here on this golf course.  It's pretty tough.  I just kept it in front of me today, and that was the thing.  You know, if you keep it in front of you and you give yourself the opportunity of getting it on the greens, you can kind of two-putt it, go to the next hole if you didn't hit it close enough to have a chance for birdie.
But I felt solid today.  I felt like I had a chance of actually doing something, which I did, and I still felt like I left a little bit out there, but at the same time I felt like I picked up a couple.
Q. When you made that turn you had those three birdies in a row.  Were you really playing aggressive through those?
BOO WEEKLEY: Well, yeah.  I mean, I knocked it -- I had like 80 yards on the first hole, and then I had, I think, like 214 or 215 hole, hit it just in front of the green there, chipped it up, and then the next hole, just tried to hit it in the middle part of the shelf, but it flew off, and the wind was right behind us, so it flew all the way back there hole high, so I had like a four-footer there.  You just take what it gives you, but at the same time you've got to take advantage of what it gives you.
Q. I heard you say that you felt like this was a long time coming.  Did you feel like you had this round in you when you got out on the first tee today?
BOO WEEKLEY: No.  Like I say, I've been kind of wishy-washy.  I haven't had the most positive attitude lately because just things ain't been going my way.  I've been hitting a lot of good putts that ain't going in, hitting a lot of good iron shots, going long, going short, thinking that I hit it perfect, and then, like I said, coming up 30 or 40 feet short or going 30 or 40 feet long.  It's kind of aggravating, for how much practice we put into it.
Q. When you're playing in the afternoon and you see the guys went really low this morning, does that instill confidence or --
BOO WEEKLEY: Well, it just lets me know that there's plenty of birdie holes out there.  Lets me know that there's holes out there that we can take advantage of if the wind is right or if we hit a good tee shot.  It means the greens are a little more receptive right now, which they're starting to turn a little brown, so there ain't no telling what they might look like tomorrow morning.  I hope they put a little water on them and try to get them back to life, because if they don't do that, then there ain't no telling what it's going to be on the weekend.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT