BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 18, 2008
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Great round today, 62, 10-under, what were you doing well out there? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  We did everything well.  We hit the ball, we kept it in play and kept it on the side of the holes that we needed to.  And we hit it pretty close.  We made a lot of 10-footers and 8-footers today, for birdie. 
 JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Could you just to start out, could you just go through your card on your birdies. 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I think I birdied, well, I birdied 1, then I birdied 2. 
 JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  But what did you do? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Oh, really I don't even know.  I don't remember all the holes. 
 JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Forget it. 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I'm sorry. 
 JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  That's all right.  That's all right. 

 Q.  Can you talk about the state of your game and where you feel you're at right now? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Well, I feel I need a lot of work.  Obviously, it's been bad for the last, well, I played last week at Sony, I didn't hit it very well and I played this week the first two days and I really hadn't hit it real well.  My putter has been pretty good, it's kept me in the ball game.  And today it's like it all clicked.  And I'm hoping that this is the start of something that more to come, I hope. 

 Q.  Are you in the celebrity rotation? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Yes, ma'am, I'm on the opposite side though.  They're on, they're on the front side or the back side today and I'm on the, you know what I mean?  Different nine. 

 Q.  Okay.  So you're playing with amateurs? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Yes. 

 Q.  Do you, what is your sort of reaction to that?  You seem like a guy that would have fun with that type of thing. 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Yeah, I have fun with it.  It just kind of reminds me of playing at home when I get to go home and play golf with my buddies at home.  I don't get to see them a whole lot and when I finally do get to see them it's kind of like going back home and playing with them.  So that's just my mindset, that's the way I got to take it is I just got different names for my buddies. 
 (Laughter.) 

 Q.  What do you have to do differently to just adjust to the pace of play as slow as it gets during this? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Well, the pace of play ain't too bad, it's you got people to talk to and you go up there and with your amateurs and you to start talking with them to kind of take your mind off of how slow the play is. 
 So it really ain't too bad.  And I just take a little more time than I normally would take when I'm hitting my iron shots is and my drives.  It ain't really that bad. 

 Q.  How do you like this weather compared with Scotland? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Compared to who? 

 Q.  Scotland.  You were in Scotland in July.  Remember? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Oh, yes, sir.  It's all right.  It's a little too dry out here for me.  I'm waking up in the morning time early in the morning and nose bleeding and stuff, I'm a little chaffed, you know, I mean I got a rash and it's just a little dry for me.  I like it a little more humidity. 

 Q.  Your nose bleeds in the morning? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Yes, sir. 

 Q.  Only here? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Well, I mean, yes, I mean it's just dry.  I'm not used to this dryness. 

 Q.  It doesn't bleed back home. 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  No, not unless somebody hits me. 
 (Laughter.) 

 Q.  Four straight birdies to close out the round.  Any noteworthy shots in that stretch?  It looked on the board like you had four straight birdies to close out the round. 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  Yes, sir. 

 Q.  Any noteworthy shots in that run?  Any big shots?  Anything real close?  Anything that stands outs in your mind? 
 BOO WEEKLEY:  I hit one close on 16 there.  That's a big drive on 16.  For me it's just a pretty tough set up because that bunker they got out there it's kind of in between my 5-wood and may 3-wood and a 3-iron kind of left me a little too far back.  So I had to say that drive there and then my second shot into there was, I hit it within about a foot there.  So I would say that one probably stands out the most. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT