NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS VS BREWERS
October 19, 2018
Corbin Burnes
Jeremy Jeffress
Corey Knebel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Milwaukee - 7, Los Angeles - 2
Q. Corey, can you tell us when the last time you batted in a game?  I assume it was high school.  And what kind of hitter were you back then?
COREY KNEBEL: It was in high school, back in 2010.  I mean I was a pretty good hitter (laughter).
But it was a lot of fun tonight being in the box.  It's a good feeling.  My hands were shaking.  I was nervous.
Q. Whose equipment were you using?  I assume you don't have any.
COREY KNEBEL: I had Hernan's helmet, Hernan's gloves, and Arcia's bat.
Q. I'm guessing you knew if one of those two guys reached to start your appearance that Josh Hader might be brought in.  Did you think you could end up going two innings?  And how important were those first two at-bats knowing you could save a guy in the bullpen?
CORBIN BURNES: I just wanted to go out and attack Turner and Machado.  And if they did want to bring in Hader, obviously that's up to Counsell.  But I just wanted to go out and attack those guys, and hopefully I got out of it clean, and I did.
Q. J.J., you guys, it's no secret how much the bullpen has been used.  A lot of the guys weren't used the last game but then the day of.  It looked like everybody was on top of their game.  Did that break help?  You and Corey pitched in every game in the postseason until that last one.
JEREMY JEFFRESS: I think it was big for that day off yesterday.  We slept in our own beds.  We got plenty of rest.  But I think it didn't even matter to us who was available or anything like that.  We just wanted to get through this game with a win.  Anybody, anytime, anywhere.  It meant a lot for us to save Hader, definitely.  And get this win today.
Q. Corey, as you slam your Gatorade there, you get the first call following Wade, but isn't that the beauty of the bullpen?  It could be Corbin, you, J.J., it doesn't really matter, right?  At any point in any give time you are available to shut down the opposition?
COREY KNEBEL: It is.  That's our motto down there.  Anybody, anywhere, anytime.  We're ready to go.  So starters get as much as they can done, but you go as long as you can for as long as you can, and come in and finish the rest.  That's our job and we did it pretty well tonight.
Q. For any of you three, last time Buehler faced Chacin, sort of talking heads on TV picked the Dodgers.  That is not a surprise to you, Chacin flies under the radar but pitches amazing.  Is that your feeling, he's not as appreciated as he should be?
JEREMY JEFFRESS: You could say that, but that's the type of stuff that we do not pay attention to.  I think the biggest part of Chacin's game is knowing what he has to do, what he's capable of doing.  And for the naysayers to doubt our abilities on the field, we just shut them up, that's all we have to do.  Just go right at them and shut them up.
Q. Jeremy, you've been here obviously three different times in your career in Milwaukee.  The fans really made themselves heard tonight.  What is it about this fan base, not just in good times but also in bad times, that make these people really supportive of you guys?
JEREMY JEFFRESS: They know what we know, is what type of team we are, what we're capable of doing.  And these fans, all year, they've packed it out, giving us at least 30 to 40 every single game.  And it means a lot to us to see that they are behind us all the way, no matter what.
And you were right, tonight was just so loud, I thought they were going to open the roof.  It was unbelievable.  And I can only imagine what tomorrow is going to feel like.  But I think that's the best part about Milwaukee is the fan base is still there, no matter what, and they're just behind us.
Q. Corey and Jeremy, you guys have been through struggles, ups and downs this year, highs and lows.  How cool is it to be playing in Game 7 to go to the World Series?
COREY KNEBEL: Funny, because none of that stuff matters, it's all in the past now.  It's all going to be laid on the line tomorrow.  Whatever happens, happens.
JEREMY JEFFRESS: It's not how you start, it's how you finish.  And that's one of the biggest things everybody struggles with a little bit, once they face adversity, they start to put their heads down a little bit.  We just keep that:  But it's not how you start, it's how you finish.
And to have Game 7 in our house is probably the biggest advantage we're going to have.  And we're going to try to use it to our advantage and just play our game, honestly.
Q. J.J., is there pressure on you guys or are you looking at this as the pressure is all on the Dodgers?
JEREMY JEFFRESS: The pressure is the pressure.  It's going to be in the house the whole game tomorrow.  I think it's more on them just because they're on the road.  And we have a great starter that's going to go right at each one of their players and hold nothing back.  And again to have our bullpen still fresh, like we are, it's going to be a whole lot of pressure on them.
Q. Corbin, I know we talked about this before, but the story just keeps getting better, you're not on the 40-man at the start of the year, you're a starting pitcher, change to relief, bring you up and throw you in and now you just pitched your team into the first Game 7 that's ever been played by the Brewers in Milwaukee.  What do you think about that?
CORBIN BURNES: It's pretty awesome, just to be given the opportunity to be able to come up and join this team.  It was a great group of guys, and I was fortunate to come up and join a great bullpen.  They helped me the whole way.  Guided me through it, gave me advice.
And to be in this spot playing in the World Series, basically, it's pretty special.  And I can't wait to see what the atmosphere is like tomorrow.  Like these guys said, we're in a good spot; we have Chacin on the mound, healthy bullpen, and didn't use Hader tonight.  I think we're in a good spot.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT