ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 23, 2009
Nathan Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Shot a 67 out there today. Your thoughts on the round and how the course played? 
 NATHAN GREEN: It's playing nice. Just starting to break up a little bit. Starting to get a little down on the greens. The greens are rolling great. Just keep the bogies off the card and keep it in close. It was a good, tidy round.

 Q. You've had so much success your rookie year, and came out so strong. It seems it's been a bit of a grind the last year or two. Do you feel you're getting back to where you want to be? 
 NATHAN GREEN: I'm not sure. The first years I was really keen and my work ethic was really good. The last years I've let that slip by. 
 I'm definitely working on my game. It could take a while. There's no real part of my game that's fine at the moment. But I'm just trying to get the putting back to where it was originally. Yeah, I've really got to practice. 

 Q. Speaking of putting, these greens, you know, the mounds and lumps around them. Tell me about these greens? 
 NATHAN GREEN: They're good. They've got a little bit of grain in them. But they're pretty fast. I don't know, I think it's good for power, but it's good. Got the pace going early. Just never left myself with any second shots. That's how you get in trouble. The three or four footers can get tricky when you're cross-grain. 

 Q. Have you become complacent? 
 NATHAN GREEN: I don't know how it is. In my first years I didn't feel like I sort of settled into America. But now I'm love living where we are. I don't know. I need to work as hard as I should have. Couple too many beers, and became fairly social sort of thing. 
 I don't know, I feel like I've got more out of the game than I ever thought I would. I really don't know what it is. But I'll get out and hit balls for an hour, until I get bored. I haven't had any great deal of direction with my golf swing. Just with the whole game. 
 Never sort of try to put in some hours and trying to get really keen again. So that's where I was first, I didn't really hit the ball that well. But I'm just getting it in the hole, and really, really working hard on it. I think that's the main difference. 

 Q. So, obviously, you recognized the fact that something's amiss?
 NATHAN GREEN: Oh, yeah, I've known for a while. I've never been a good ball striker. But I was always really keen on making it better. I'm not a bad ball striker, but I'm not up to the level that most of the guys on out here are. 
 I was always fighting to sort of get it there. And I'm aware that it may not get any better than this. I don't know. I don't know what it is. I feel like I play the practice round and I hit the ball really well. When I'm loose, there's not much riding on it. But just nerves has always been a problem. I don't know. 
 I always sort of resigned to the fact that I might not ever step up. So I don't know. I'm going to work out the next couple of years and hopefully get something going.

 Q. Have you been frustrated by that? 
 NATHAN GREEN: I have been frustrated, yeah. And I just never felt that comfortable through impact. And I sort of struggled with that. I can't get it out on the golf course, and that's something that just throws your head in. So, yeah. I don't know. I've just sort of let that fester through the game. 
 It's just a commitment, and I see the other guys out there working hard, and they're getting further and further away. A lot of it with me is mental. 
 I think I feel like I'm killing a snake with my golf swing. I'll put it on video and it's not as bad as I think it is. But I don't know. I've got to mentally get better. I knock myself around a little bit. 
 But, yeah, it's just been a real fight for me to get on the tour, and then sort of just lost it a little bit the last few years.

 Q. You need to go a little easier on yourself?
 NATHAN GREEN: I need to go easier on myself and work harder, though, and make a few changes where it needs to be made. Yeah, it's just not up to the level that it needs to be to get the swing. I'm going to have some good weeks, but the way I hit it, I'm a little away from trouble. It makes it a lot harder to shoot under par, and let it go. 

 Q. How was it today? 
 NATHAN GREEN: A little bit of everything. I just had to make sure I didn't -- I wasn't unbelievably impressive off the tee. I hit a couple of bad tee shots. But I played fine. I just sneak it inside the 15-foot mark a few times. 
 Yeah, didn't take any three-putt things or anything like that. It was just a good, tidy round. Last week I did the same thing. Just had one bogey, two birdies, could have been a lot better. 
 Yeah, I'm struggling to get the four rounds together. I feel like it's getting a little bit closer. Maybe it's all the work I've been doing is paying off. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT