VALERO TEXAS OPEN
October 9, 2008
Nathan Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   CHRIS REIMER: Nathan, spectacular first round, 8-under. I believe it's your career best on the PGA Tour is a 62.
 Just talk about it. What went right?
 NATHAN GREEN: I didn't feel really great going out there today. I actually hit the ball pretty well the last month. Hit a terrible tee shot. I snapped hooked it. Hit a rock and bounced back into play. From there on it was all pretty solid.
 I made a good -- just had a good run from about 6 on and made a good 10-footer on 6 and just hit it close, like tap-ins -- about three, four on the next one and tap-in on 8, and 9 probably about three feet and just probably made three good putts all day and made one on 10.
 But the biggest part I think was I made a good par save on 11. Hit -- I hit a reasonable, I thought, first good putt but went ten feet past and made it coming back. 
 From then on I played fairly steady without anything amazing. Made a good putt on 16 and unfortunately bogeyed 17 but it was still much better than I expected.

 Q. You don't have a big history here, do you?
 NATHAN GREEN: I haven't played here before.

 Q. Lot of people come into this course obviously. What do you think of it?
 NATHAN GREEN: I definitely like courses when they're playing a little bit firmer so this sort of fits into that. 
 Last week was definitely not fun. Very soft and definitely for long hitters. I think for me, my driving is probably the worse part but I can sort of hit like a low -- hit a low, punchy shot and that doesn't actually hurt you too much around here with the little bit of wind that was -- we get a lot of run. 
 My wedge game is just really sharp and I can't explain the score because I don't usually like bermuda grass. That's probably the best I putted on that.
 It was just one of those rounds where everything went right. I got some great bounces as I said on 1 and then I on 8 I hit a ball, I don't know if I hit a rack but it bounced close.
 Just one of those rounds everything went right. Two months where I felt I couldn't do anything right so the last month felt a lot better.

 Q. 23, 24-footers, you made those. Lot of people been talking about the greens been bumpy. They were pretty true for you?
 NATHAN GREEN: As I said, I didn't expect to putt well today. I think especially with the putting green was pretty fast and the main thing was just not putting any pressure on the second putt. That's what I was thinking about, if I could get my speed right early and not leave myself too much hard work.
 Just one of those days I got the speed early and -- I didn't have a great deal of work. I had a couple of easy birdies but I didn't have to work too hard. 
 Just made some -- every now and again it felt like I hit some good putts that kept the confidence going and kept me on the run. I didn't feel like I was having a round that good the way I felt I was playing but just gave me a lot of chances and made a lot of them.

 Q. Why did you decide to play here?
 NATHAN GREEN: I intended on playing last year but I'm pretty sure it was the Dunhill Links. I love playing links golf. Wasn't able to play. 
 Living in Dallas now, I try and play all the events where you can actually drive to them. I'm not a big fan of flying. So drive down here on Tuesday morning and just go into a bit of a rhythm. Felt like I was playing alright Tuesday and Wednesday. I didn't feel great this morning on the range but it was okay.

 Q. Are you in Plano?
 NATHAN GREEN: McKinney.

 Q. Over the years, obviously, I know the reputation of this event, you come in, you're going to have to shoot 20-under just about to win. Did you know coming in I'm going to have to post low here to have any kind of chance at victory?
 NATHAN GREEN: Definitely, yeah. I didn't probably think it was going to be super low just because the guys are having a bit of trouble with the greens. They are pretty fast and especially downhill putts they do have a bit of a bubble in them when they close speeds. 
 You don't want four, five-footers coming back. Depending on the wind and how the greens do bake out, I'm not sure what y'all need, but I'll get there tomorrow and trying to do the same things I did today.
 CHRIS REIMER: One of the things I've heard a couple players say, it's actually harder sometimes to follow-up a 62 than it is to follow-up a 68. Does that make sense? Do you feel that way?
 NATHAN GREEN: Definitely. Definitely. I didn't really have anything go greatly wrong today. I think that the following day if you miss a few greens earlier you just sort of lose your way a little bit but I can't recall I shot that low. I don't know how to back it up. It's kind of interesting.
 I think a lot of the course -- the first group out in the morning it was pretty cold so just do the same things. I was trying to hit as many greens as I can and hopefully get the putter going a little bit again.
 CHRIS REIMER: Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT