JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 15, 2007
Nathan Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   NATHAN GREEN:  I was just nervous.  I always get real nervous, and I didn't actually feel good until probably the last four holes.  A bit disappointing, but like I said, I more I get used to it I can just trust my game under pressure.   
 I made all my bogeys when I was worried about hitting a bad shot and ended up hitting a bad shot.  That's pretty much all that happened.  Just didn't putt well enough, didn't play well enough.   
  
  Q.  You know, the last group on Sunday, though, probably something to build on, though?   
 NATHAN GREEN:  Yeah, that's always tough.  I think some guys get used to it, Tiger gets used to it, but when you only sort of get there once or twice a year, then that's more difficult.   
 Just really struggled through -- sort of probably 5 through about 12, I just felt terrible with my swing and managed to recover a little bit at the end.  But it was a struggle all day.   
  
  Q.  What are you going to take away from the John Deere Classic?   
 NATHAN GREEN:  Besides some money (laughing), it'll be -- I love the event, I really do.  I think they do everything right.  They don't try and make it the fifth major or anything like that.  They make it a great, fun event.  They look out for the players great.   
 They've got a course that everyone loves playing because there's plenty of birdies to be had.  You're not sort of busting your gut to break par.   
 I think it's just a super event.  The crowds just get right behind you.  It's one that -- sometimes you can be in a major city and they barely know you're there, whereas this one it seems like everyone in town comes out and it gives a great atmosphere, and that's why guys love coming here.   
 Through the back nine I just hit a couple of poor shots, but yeah, I think just -- I love the event.  I think it's a great golf course, and the guys do love coming here, and I hope I can come back next year.   
  
  Q.  These are the experiences you learn from.  Are you going to chalk it up to that, okay, I learned a lot today?   
 NATHAN GREEN:  Yeah, I think the thing you learn is you've got to play good, you've got to put four good rounds on the boards, especially here.  You can't shoot even par and expect to win.  I've just got to get a little bit more trust with my game and a bit more self-belief and maybe I'll be able to capitalize next time in that position.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT