CANADIAN OPEN
September 7, 2006
Nathan Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Just general comments about the round.
NATHAN GREEN:  Yeah, started off scrappy, actually.  I hit some poor tee shots early, made some really good putts for saves and for birdies.  Got 2 under.  Played the long par five on the back.

Started to play pretty good through    from about probably seventh, eighth hole.  I hit two good shots in there.  Made eagle.  Got the four.

Then, you know, good save on 18.  Then I don't know.  Just the front nine I played a bit more solid than I did on the back, but didn't hit it close enough really.  Then I hit a bad chip on 17 and, uhm    sorry, on 7, and made bogey.  That was my only bogey.  Then made a good birdie on 7.
Q.  You've got six top 10s this year, and even the weeks it seems like you're not necessarily finishing in the top 10, you're putting some good rounds together.  Like last week, I don't think you finished in the top 10.  You were around the leaderboard the first two or three days.  How do you explain how well you've played this year?
NATHAN GREEN:  I'm not sure.  I haven't had the pressure on me of trying to keep my card from the first two weeks.  I don't know.  I've stayed pretty focused and everything on my game and been working pretty hard.

So, uhm, yeah, just    but just getting off to good starts.  Never really found myself behind the eight ball.

But best thing probably is the weeks when I was struggling, I was struggling last week with my game, but still managed to have a good finish.  Just worked out.  It was good.
Q.  You're seeing some of these courses for the first time.  Now that you're going to have your card and more or less be able to pick and choose where you play, do you think that will help your schedule as far as playing golf courses that suit your game a little better?
NATHAN GREEN:  Yeah, definitely.  Last year on the Nationwide, I just had to play every week.  And the good thing about this year playing well early was I was able to sort of work out a little bit of a schedule of sort of playing no more than four weeks in a row, and most of them sort of three week spells with a week or two off in between.  And I think that just starting fresh helped me play well towards the end of the year, as well.

I don't know.  I can't put a finger on it really why I have played well this year.  But, uhm, yeah, it's sort of definitely just I think the pressure.  I haven't had a great deal of pressure on me from the outset.
Q.  Do you feel like you're kind of still a little bit under the radar?  No offense to you, but everybody knows J.B. Holmes because he hits it a mile.  Bubba Watson, Camilo, Trevor, but, you know, like you have more top 10s than any of those guys.  Do you kind of like that just because you don't worry about having to deal with a lot of the external
NATHAN GREEN:  Yeah, I do enjoy that actually.  I've never been good at doing the media stuff and that.  But at sort of 31, I'm probably pretty old to be a rookie.  I think the attention sort of rightly so is sort of more on Camilo and JB.  I'm not sure how old Bubba is, but he might younger than me, as well.

Yeah, I think it's    I don't know.  Also being like pro for like seven years now or so...

It's definitely a lot more impressive I think to come out in your first year, like they have, to play as well as they have.  Like I probably got a little bit more experience playing in Australia and that sort of thing.

Yeah, it's    I'm pretty happy with the way things are going all year, and hopefully it will keep going.
Q.  With a win potentially, you'd throw your hat into a ring for Rookie of the Year.  Would that be an important honor for you, or just something that would
NATHAN GREEN:  Definitely it would be a good bonus.  That's probably what I would see it as.

Yeah, only thing I really thought of at the start of the year is just trying to keep your card.  I've sort of just been happy with the way I've sort of kept on going from having a good start.  Like usually I probably sort of fall away a little bit after a few good weeks.

But my game's been pretty consistent, which I've been happy with.  Haven't missed a great deal of cuts.  Yeah, I'm just    yeah, my attitude's improved a lot in the last probably year and a half, which is probably what I put most of my improvement down to, just not beating myself up and that sort of thing, sort of pat myself on the back for having good weeks and that sort of thing.
Q.  Last question.  General impressions on the course and how it was playing today.
NATHAN GREEN:  Yeah, I love it.  I played sort of two and a half years sort of on the Canadian Tour.  I played a lot of sort of similar course setups to this.  Rough definitely not as thick as on that tour as what we're playing here today.

Yeah, it's a tough course, and in sort of a different way.  The par 3s are very strong.  You sort of just got to get through them.  But if you can    there's only sort of two, two par 5s, and both of them are sort of marginally reachable.

But, yeah, if you drive it well on the par 4s, you'll give yourself a fair few sort of wedges, and that's sort of where more you're going to make your score.

Yeah, I like that sort of play.  The driving's been getting a little bit straighter, which is usually a problem.  So, uhm, hopefully that will keep going the rest of the week and I'll give myself some more chances.
Q.  Furyk shot 63.  Justin Rose shot 63.  Common perception would be while the greens are soft, it's easy to score, you still have to hit the fairways and you still have to hit greens to make birdies.  It's still a good test, right?
NATHAN GREEN:  Yeah, definitely.  Well, especially if I found the greens, they're a small target.  If they do firm up, they're pretty    and get quicker, they're pretty slopey.

So, uhm, that's main reason the score is as good today is because the greens are still soft, I think.  Even if the fairways don't stay soft, if they firm the greens up, the scoring will be a lot tougher.  There's a lot of runoffs.  If you're just in the rough off the greens, you've got a really tricky shot.

Yeah, I just    yeah, I think any week where the greens are soft, there's always ones or two guys that rip it up.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT