BUICK INVITATIONAL
January 28, 2006
Nathan Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOHN BUSH:  Nathan, 2 under, nice playing today.
NATHAN GREEN:  Thank you.
JOHN BUSH:  If we can get to you comment on the round for us, please.
NATHAN GREEN:  Just got off to a pretty steady start and it was just didn't make too many bogeys, and made five really good putts.  I don't know really what's happening out there but I'm striking it just okay and probably drove the ball pretty poor compared to the first two days.  But the game feels    I have better results when my game is not pretty hot and I have to fight hard for it, so I'm pretty happy with it.
JOHN BUSH:  Let's go through your card, starting with 2.
NATHAN GREEN:  2, I hit a really good shot to about two feet and managed to make that.

4, bogey.  Struggled with this hole all week.  Hit it in the rough and had a 10  or 12 footer I missed.

5, hit a good drive, didn't really hit a great second shot.  I had probably about a 30 footer roundabout and hit it too hard and hit it on the wrong line and it went in (laughter)    exactly.  There you go, it's going to happen a little bit out here so I'll take that one.

9, another poorly played hole.  Low hook off the tee, another low hook second shot, knocked it on about 25 feet and made it again.

11, I hit a really good shot in actually and got to the top, rolled back down to the tee and I don't know how long that is, probably another 30 footer roundabout.

13, tee shot, got lucky with the second shot.  I just drove the green and caught a little bunch of fairway there and hit a good chip to about six feet and made the putt.

16, just struggling with the left bunker, didn't have much of a chance and didn't get up and down.
Q.  Inaudible?
NATHAN GREEN:  I am finding it hard, definitely.  You don't get a great deal of good weeks in a year, so I'm just out there trying to make it as good as I can and trying to run with it.
Q.  What's the biggest check you've cashed?
NATHAN GREEN:  Only last week or two weeks ago about ago, about 200,000.
Q.  How are you a different player now?
NATHAN GREEN:  I don't know, I went through a really rough period with my game probably    I got in in '01 when I first turned pro and the next two years just really struggled with it.  Got overcoached and battled sort of during that stage.  Went through everything you can sort of think of.  That was probably the biggest help to my career than anything else I think was during that stage I had to scramble a lot just to try to make a living.  And after that I just was trying to keep it simple now and just try to hit it straight, try to hit it straight and add to the short game, and I feel it's pretty solid.
Q.  Inaudible?
NATHAN GREEN:  About 23, 24.  That was pretty regular when I was coming through.  Most of the guys, Allenby, set the trend of going a little bit earlier.  Most of the guys I played with turned pro around 23 and that sort of stuff.
Q.  How much of a struggle is it when you are struggling    inaudible?
NATHAN GREEN:  That's what it got to.  I couldn't even look up; I was so happy when I got it airborne.  It was tough and I knew I had to change a few things first, a lot of attitude and that sort of thing    inaudible    helped me out for the last two years, and got back to more just playing golf and that sort of thing.  I try and set up square and I try to get the clubface square at impact.
Q.  Inaudible?
NATHAN GREEN:  Definitely.  I did go through a few coaches that sort of thing during that time.  I probably was looking in the wrong place for it.  I was trying to have the perfect swing.

I've come to realize everyone hits bad shots, and I know I'm going to hit some bad shots and I can recover from them and that's good.
Q.  Inaudible?
NATHAN GREEN:  A year and a half, two years.  Probably about 2001 to 2003 sort of thing, roundabout there.
Q.  Inaudible?
NATHAN GREEN:  Yeah, one of them he's an Aussie guy who married a California girl, so I guess I'll see him while I'm over here.  Just sort of trying to keep it pretty simple.
Q.  Inaudible?
NATHAN GREEN:  Milt (ph).  He's won Tour School over here, I'm not sure, maybe early 90s, that sort of thing.  Just good to learn stuff from someone who has been in those situations, rather than someone more clinically.  He knows what you're going through, anyway.
Q.  Inaudible?
NATHAN GREEN:  It was pretty much a family business and during from when I left school when I was 18 to about 22, we've got a pretty extensive amateur schedule in Australia.  Just had money coming in when I was out there, mowing lawns and gardening    I wasn't lighting matches.  I was just doing all of the bits.
JOHN BUSH:  Play well tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT