JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
September 29, 2011
Nathan Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Great to be out there today, you begin with a birdie at 1 early on, make a 15-footer and great things happened after that. 
 NATHAN GREEN: It was good. Yeah, hit a poor wedge shot in and managed to roll in a good putt and that's how the front nine went. 
 Didn't hit it overly close. Made a couple of really nice up-and-downs, but it was just one of those real steady rounds where I just managed to pick up -- there's probably three or four sort of unexpected birdies out there. And yeah, just no mistakes, which was nice. No bogeys which was pretty unusual.

 Q. Great to see a smile on your face. It's been a tough year for you. What did you do during the break, anything that kind of made you feel like this could be a good week for you?
 NATHAN GREEN: Not really. Probably did a little bit of work on it, but not as much as I should do. I feel I needed motivation. But today it just sort of all clicked a little bit. It's just one of those days where I sort of drove it a little -- just been struggling off the tee and felt like it's just gone through the rest of the game and the putting has not been where it needs to be. 
 Like I said today, it all just sort of worked pretty well. It would just be nice to play some good golf; to play well this week and the next three weeks I would be happy with that. I would like to keep my card, but even if I didn't, just to play some nice golf, just would take the pressure off.

 Q. Nice to hear from the other guys that you're playing well again. 
 NATHAN GREEN: It's good. I know I haven't been on the leaderboard for about two years. Like I said, it's been tough but probably the last year and a half, short game has not been good enough to compete. And my first few years on TOUR, I was able to hit the ball where I could till get it around and struggled to do it lately. 
 Today was good. Felt like I left the course with a couple better than I deserved, so that was good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT