MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2010
Nathan Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. (No microphone.)
 NATHAN GREEN: If you're playing bad it's not that much fun. I managed to make three birdies in a row on the front nine to get back to 2-over and then when I 3-putted 11 and tripled 12 to give up a chance to get under 80 again. 
 And that's the sort of thing that can happen here if you start trying to push it a little bit and -- but the last two days it wasn't any, you try to play some shots you wouldn't usually play, you know you shouldn't really go at them, but you're just trying to make something happen.

 Q. Is that what happened on those holes?
 NATHAN GREEN: Kind of, yeah. That hole there, you just need to hit to the middle of the green. It's not one of those pins that you don't go at, it's sort of a pin that's set up pretty nice for you, so I don't know, it's just a disappointing last two days in some respects, but just sort of a good way to finish, I suppose. 

 Q. This afternoon will you go out and --
 NATHAN GREEN: No, just going to have a couple beers and sit on the couch and watch it. It's going to be a great final round. I would love to see Lee Westwood win it, I think he's done, I think he's ready. He's been that good of player and then he lost it and to come back and, if you could win a Masters after some of the issues that he's gone through in his career and that sort of thing, it would be an amazing achievement for him, I think. 
 I think he dropped back to 250 in the world or something like that and was really struggling. And it's a big deal to turn that around. 
 You got so many good stories, Tiger coming back and Phil whose been through some really tough things in the last sort of 12 months. So I don't know, this thing is set up for a great day. 
 I'm not a massive golf watcher, I'm not much of a fan of watching golf, but I think today it's just going to be an especially I can final round. I think it's going to be great. 

 Q. Didn't Tim Finchem tell you not to say that? 
 NATHAN GREEN: What's that? 

 Q. That I'm not much of a golf watcher. 
 NATHAN GREEN: I don't know. I just did. If there's something on TV I'll sit down and watch it, but I'm just not, it's more if someone I know is going well, one of my mates, I'll watch it, but I don't know, we do so much golf, golfing all day, every day, that that when we're off the course we don't watch. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 NATHAN GREEN: I don't know. You would think it's going to be, I don't know, it's got to be a mental thing because the greens and that here are very similar grasses and speed to what you get in Melbourne. I think they have gone sort of a little bit down, I haven't been there in four or five years. But I don't know, it's compacted, sort of muddy grass here and that's the way playing in Ireland and Royal Melbourne used to be that way. 
 You would think some of the guys -- you got to be a good ball-striker, guys like Ogilvy and Allenby and guys who, I don't know, you would think suit the course and I think that they got expectations on these guys now that, especially if they get right in contention; and there's been so much history for of guys not winning when they had their chances to and it's, I think it just gets in their head and it's tough to, might be tough to overcome that trying to go against history as well as the other players in the field and it's tough. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 NATHAN GREEN: I don't think. So I think the course is, I don't know, I think if you're hitting the ball well you can give yourself a lot of chances out here. I just think it's a really fun track. I think it's a good course to play. I know I didn't have much good stuff with me this week, but, I don't know, I think some guys might be a little bit scared of just from some of the stories and that you hear, there's plenty that can go wrong out here, but, I don't know, I don't know, I think it's pretty playable. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 NATHAN GREEN: No, I haven't. I got lots of stuff on the first day. We just got some stuff that we can take home and that. But it's just been, I don't know, just the memories are good enough for me, as I say, I'm not much into the whole framing and even the ball there, Is just threw it away. I'm just not a memento sort of guy. So I'm not into that whole thing of keeping stuff. It's just, I don't know, I've never done it and my family was lucky to be here to see it so that's good enough for me. 

 Q. What did you think of the speed of the course today?
 NATHAN GREEN: It's good. That's how it should always be. Like the first day we had the first group out we got around in four hours 12, the next day we were like three hours 20 or something like that and that's the way I like playing. That's ample time for a group of two to play. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 NATHAN GREEN: But that's, as Chad said, it wasn't like we were running, we had, we might have had the guys fore caddie on a couple holes, but that's the speed that you should play golf at. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 NATHAN GREEN: I said to him before we went off, I said have you got the same sort of jitters now that we would have had last year at this time and he said, yeah, but just from playing with me. 
 (Laughter.) 

 Q. How many holes-in-one have you had in competition?
 NATHAN GREEN: Oh, I think it's got to be about five. I'm not sure. That one there was -- the first one, that was, I know I had one at Luna Links, I had another one over here somewhere. I think that's probably those there. I think I had three eagles and three other chances in tournaments, so I think it's going to be, yeah, I think it's going to be five, I think. 

 Q. Is the bag going off for charity?
 NATHAN GREEN: No, I'll probably send it off. My wife gets the bag, we have got like five bags, so I don't know. 

 Q. Have you ever been to the U.S. Open or British Open?
 NATHAN GREEN: No, no. 

 Q. It would be nice to play there wouldn't it?
 NATHAN GREEN: Yeah, yeah, I haven't even played Pebble as a course yet, so. It will be nice. 

 Q. St. Andrews?
 NATHAN GREEN: I played there. It's a bit different there. I don't know. But right now my game isn't competitive enough to be in the Majors. 

 Q. What club on 16?
 NATHAN GREEN: 6-iron.

 Q. What was the number?
 NATHAN GREEN: 161 meters. I think. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT