THE IRISH OPEN
June 21, 2014
Gareth Maybin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  GARETH MAYBIN:   I got off to a bit of a rocky start.   Obviously you're nervous but the first hole, put it in the left rough off the tee and got flyer on my second, struggling to hit the green and 2‑putted.   
It was good in a way.   Kind of settled me down and I fought from there which I was proud of.  
   
 Q.   As it stands, you're only four strokes off the lead.   You must fancy your chances?  
GARETH MAYBIN:   You never know.   A lot of names up there, McDowell, and Mikko knows how to win from the front.   Just go out tomorrow, play golf and see where it takes me.  
   
 Q.   Safe to say you would have taken this position going into the week?  
GARETH MAYBIN:   Yeah, any time you go into the last round with a chance to win; yeah, I've shown I'm capable of shooting good scores.   
I didn't get off to the best start, doubling the first, a bit of nerves and a bit of bad luck to be honest.   Flyer out of the left rough and back in the trap and did well to get out to be honest.   
Settled me down and from there on played really good golf.   Just one blemish at 17 and other than that, played pretty solid.   
   
 Q.   You must be pleased with the way you bounced back?  
GARETH MAYBIN:   Depends how you let it affect you.   If you're going to throw the towel in after making a double, you're not going to do too well out here.   But I knuckled down and grinded hard and proud of myself the way I fought today; to get in 69 was a respectable score.  
   
 Q.   If you were nervous this morning, what's it going to be like tomorrow starting even higher up the leaderboard?   
GARETH MAYBIN:   Saturday is a trickier day to be honest.   Sunday you know you have three rounds under your belt, you've seen the course and the nerves of Saturday and stuff.   When you tee off on Sunday, probably won't feel as nervous as I felt today.   If I can shoot a low one tomorrow, you never know.   
   
 Q.   You've been in contention so you know what it's all about to challenge.   Is?  
GARETH MAYBIN:   That's right.   I've had three seconds, beat in a playoff and played with big names in the seconds in the last group.   I have a lot to draw on.   I'll go out tomorrow and play my game and total them up at the end.   
Shooting 65 on Friday, no reason why I can't do it on Sunday.   
   
 Q.   Are you thinking about that Open place which is up for grabs?   
GARETH MAYBIN:   Not till now.   Obviously it would be nice to play in The Open.   It's my favourite tournament of all.   If I can do that tomorrow, that would be great.  
   
 Q.   Keeping yourself nicely involved in this championship?   
GARETH MAYBIN:   Yeah, obviously after the first hole, it wasn't too good.   Doubled the first, but it was a combination of nerves and a little bit of bad luck.   But battled well from there, and proud of myself the way I finished.  
   
 Q.   Nerves, because?   
GARETH MAYBIN:   Being in The Irish Open, home crowd, a lot of friends and family down, I guess that all adds up.   
   
 Q.   Double‑edged sword, isn't it, because everybody is supporting and everybody is willing you to win?  
GARETH MAYBIN:   That's right.   No doubt.   And you want to do well not only for yourself but the people who made the trip down.   I'm delighted I battled back hard today and played the rest of the way in 4‑under.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT