BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 24, 2010
Gareth Maybin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Good round today?   
 GARETH MAYBIN: Yeah, I played pretty solidly. It was pretty blustery out there, so all in all, very happy just to drop one shot.   
  
  Q. You must be used to the wind, though.   
 GARETH MAYBIN: Yeah, I guess being back home it gets pretty breezy but it's a little different out here. The ball goes and there's a lot of heat in the air.   
  
  Q. Still a challenging course out there when it does blow; just the one bogey out there today?   
 GARETH MAYBIN: Yeah, one bogey the last two rounds, so I guess just keep doing what I'm doing and try to make a few putts and see where that putts us at the end.  
  
  Q. Have you been getting on to the greens or scrambling had what's been the key?   
 GARETH MAYBIN: Tee-to-green I have been pretty solid and when I have missed a green my short game has been pretty good. All in all looking forward to tomorrow really.   
  
  Q. Difficult tournament so far with the delay; what did you get up to?   
 GARETH MAYBIN: Went and did a little bit of gym work and hung out in the casino for a while, nothing too adventurous.  
  
  Q. Any winnings?   
 GARETH MAYBIN: I'm very even, all-square. I reckon I finish the weekend now, I'll be happy.  
  
  Q. In contention, how do you fancy your chances tomorrow?  
 GARETH MAYBIN: Yeah, it will be good. Obviously all depends on the weather tomorrow again, and hopefully it will be the same for everybody, and as I say just keep doing what I'm doing and if it's good enough, it's good enough. And if it's not, I'll worry about it the next morning.  
  
  Q. You've given yourself chances there when you've been up there a few times.   
 GARETH MAYBIN: Yeah, I've been there before, so I'll know what to expect. A lot of big names at the top of the leaderboard. Stick to my game plan and keep doing what I'm doing.  
  
  Q. The more you do it, you'll get used to it and feel comfortable there; do you agree with that?  
 GARETH MAYBIN: Without a doubt. The more you put yourself in contention, the better. Like you say, the more you do it, the more you become used to it. Hopefully that will stand me in good stead for tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT