JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 27, 2009
Gareth Maybin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   GARETH MAYBIN: I played okay the first four holes.  
  
  Q. Misjudged the wind?  
 GARETH MAYBIN: No, just hit a terrible shot.   
  
  Q. How do you get your mind-set after the start mentally?  
 GARETH MAYBIN: On a course like this, you probably have more time than like last week because you know the scoring is not going to be ridiculously low. If you hang in there, you'll have your chances and hopefully you'll take a couple of them.   
  
  Q. Watching you last week, you seemed to get it going and it went wrong and then you got it going and seemed to be sort of on and off.   
 GARETH MAYBIN: I played solid. Just didn't make any putts. Tee-to-green, I was probably as good as anybody in the field. Probably close to last in putting, so sort of idle.   
  
  Q. Still using the belly putter?  
 GARETH MAYBIN: It feels good. Last week I didn't putt great but felt like I hit good putts. I putted well today.   
 Good birdie on 9, the par 5, from 15 feet. Chipped and putt for birdie on 12 from 15 yards. Short-sided myself and I was dead and I holed out of the bunker.   
  
  Q. Are you in next week?  
 GARETH MAYBIN: I'm reserve right now, so hopefully I'll get in. Hopefully play the next two weeks, play Crans and should be good enough to get into Cologne.  
  
  Q. How frustrating is it to have made enough money to keep your card but still not getting into tournaments?   
 GARETH MAYBIN: I expect it to be honest. The majority of the people out here have had to do it. You just start at the bottom and work your way up. I've done that and hopefully next year I'll be okay.   
  
  Q. Next year you can do your schedule now?  
 GARETH MAYBIN: Looking forward to it.   
  
  Q. Is there a sense you still want to achieve something, getting that first tournament, is there a sense of urgency with so little tournaments running?   
 GARETH MAYBIN: Not really. Obviously a goal of mine is to get into The Race to Dubai and events line the Singapore Open, which makes it even tougher for me, HSBC. But I've probably got six, seven tournaments left to play. If I can pick up one good result there, I think I'll be in good shape.   
  
  Q. You're almost there now, aren't you.   
 GARETH MAYBIN: Yeah, I'm quite a ways away, I would say, maybe a hundred grand short.   
  
  Q. Tell us about a good day, because that's a lovely recovery, isn't it.   
 GARETH MAYBIN: I got off to a pretty rough start. Lost a ball No. 1, and actually played okay the next three holes but missed a short putt, took me to 3-over and then played pretty solid coming in. A couple of good up-and-downs and finally ended up shooting 69.   
  
  Q. The evidence suggests you're good at recovering, but is that normal? You've shot a double at the first, you can let your head drop.   
 GARETH MAYBIN: Some people do. To be honest it doesn't really -- what happens, happens, to be fair. I battled back from it and today I shot 69 and another day I might have shot 75. So just take the highs and the lows and here we are at 69.   
  
  Q. That was a lot of ball, was it at the first, which you don't expect on any European Tour event but I guess you were out early.   
 GARETH MAYBIN: Yeah, there's a couple marshals up there on the right. But it's tough for those guys. The rough is soaking wet and my ball obviously went in and didn't bounce or would have got it. I don't blame anybody, I was the one that put the swing on it.  
  
  Q. How would you say that compared to the KLM Open last week?   
 GARETH MAYBIN: It's quite a long golf course and not many people are going to tear it up all week. If the weather stays like this, 12-, 13-, 14-under will be the winning score.   
  
  Q. A course you like?  
 GARETH MAYBIN: Yeah, it's growing on me. I played a practice round and thought probably not tailored to my game, but yeah, I played today and it's fun to play.   
  
  Q. What didn't you like initially? What do you like now?  
 GARETH MAYBIN: Probably the length of it. That helped me out a bit today with putting a few tees up and stuff. Hopefully it will be like that the rest of the week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT