THE IRISH OPEN
June 20, 2014
Gareth Maybin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  GARETH MAYBIN:   The course is in great condition, lots of fans out there today and there was no wind, so it was set up for a good score.  
   
 Q.   Tell us about your round?  
GARETH MAYBIN:   Yeah, it started off pretty slow.   I made a birdie at the second and then parred all the way through to I made the turn, so my 10th hole and then kind of got fire on the bag and saw the ball going in the hole.   You see that happening and you start believing, and then you believe, it happens.  
   
 Q.   What was your expectation level coming into the event?   
GARETH MAYBIN:   Right about average to be honest.   I wasn't hitting it great.   I wasn't hitting it terrible.   It was so‑so, but to get here and put in some good work this week.   
There's still a lot of guys to go this afternoon and doesn't look like it's going to change too much from this morning, so I would say the leader might get to maybe 8‑, 9‑, 10‑under, so I won't be too far back.   
   
 Q.   You said a couple of weeks ago that it's life‑changing becoming a dad, and it's taken a while to get the became into this kind of form?  
GARETH MAYBIN:   Yeah, since I had my little boy, everything changes really.   Golf's just not that important anymore and that's really where my life lies now, my wife and my kid, that will always be first from here on and golf is second.  
   
 Q.   You get that sensation, though, do you, knowing that the game is coming back together and the appetite and the confidence is there?  
GARETH MAYBIN:   A little bit.   A little bit.   I would say my appetite for it really isn't what it used to be, which is probably why my form hasn't been that great of late.   Yeah, just nice to go out today and shoot a few under.   
Obviously it's great to have the fans here and it's one of my favourite tournaments.   I haven't had great form in it over the past few years, but nice to finally get in it.  
   
 Q.   A course that meets your eye?   
GARETH MAYBIN:   Yeah, definitely, there's room off the tee which always helps and the greens are good, so I'm rolling it pretty nicely.   Makes for a good weekend.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT