ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 14, 2013
Gareth Maybin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Very good?   
GARETH MAYBIN:   It was.   I think the highlight of the day was watching J.B. to be honest.   Took a nine on the second and birdied six of his next seven holes.   
Yeah, played pretty solid all day.   Didn't drop many shots and holed out very nicely coming in, which was good.  
   
 Q.   Given what's around the corner, that's a pretty solid week of links golf.   
GARETH MAYBIN:   It's good.   Classify last week as a links course, too, so a good solid two weeks of links golf played, so really looking forward to heading down the road to Muirfield.  
   
 Q.   Probably don't have the best memories of The Open championship given what happened in 2010; how confident are you going to Muirfield?  
GARETH MAYBIN:   Very, to be honest.   Driving it great is what you have to do around here.   Really excited for the week.   
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts overall on the way the week has panned out?  
GARETH MAYBIN:   It's great.   Any time you Top‑10 in such a quality field is a bonus.   Yeah, delighted with myself the way I handled things and had a decent result.  
Birdied 8 to get to 2‑under for the day, I was right up there and bad, bad error on 9 with a wedge shot, hit the wrong club to be honest, totally my fault and killed the momentum and just grinded out coming in.  
It's a whole different golf course today.   I mean, 64 yesterday, and 71 today was probably the equivalent of about 67, 66.   
I have quite a low ball flight, it sets up pretty good for me.   
   
 Q.   You have set things up nicely in terms of progress for next week after two weeks on linksy‑courses.   
GARETH MAYBIN:   Yeah, it's been building nicely, eighth in France and now I guess maybe sixth here.   So the progression is good; if it keeps going up two spots, I'll be happy.   
I've done a lot of work with three main people, my trainer, my psychologist and my coach.   They have been instrumental in almost rebuilding my golf swing and my mind and my body.   So I owe them a lot.   
   
 Q.   Takes time, doesn't it.   
GARETH MAYBIN:   Yeah, it does and I'm not the most patient person in the world, so I've done okay.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT