ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 13, 2013
Gareth Maybin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Today is known as moving day; 64 is quite a move, tell us about that round.  
GARETH MAYBIN:   Yeah, it was pretty much flawless apart from I guess the two bogeys.   You know, I played great golf, flagged it all day and made a bunch of putts.  
   
 Q.   Obviously weather conditions are ideal for scoring.   What about the course setup today?   Is it set up for low scoring?  
GARETH MAYBIN:   It is, and it's not.   I mean, there's some generous pins out there.   Obviously the course yields a lot of birdies, but there are some really tricky pins, like 9.   12 is a tough pin.   There is tough pins, so I mean, 64 is a very good score.  
   
 Q.   Until last week, you were really struggling for form, and you had an 8th place in France and now something's clicked in the game.   
GARETH MAYBIN:   It's weird, people say, are you struggling for form, but I've actually been playing okay, missing cuts by one, maybe mentally not as solid as I need to be.   Ever since qualifying for The Open at Sunningdale, I've played pretty solid from there on, so pretty happy with where my game is.  
   
 Q.   What about your position in the championship now, we don't know what the leaders are going to shoot, so what do you feel about it?  
GARETH MAYBIN:   13‑under, should be Top‑10 by the end of the day, and I would expect to be probably five behind going into tomorrow.   I would expect to be closer going into tomorrow than I was going into today.   
   
 Q.   A round of 64, 8‑under, jump from 5‑under to 13‑under, one‑shot lead.   You must be very pleased indeed?  
GARETH MAYBIN:   Yeah, over the moon.   Very, very solid this morning and absolutely perfect conditions in sunny Scotland, which was nice.  
   
 Q.   You seemed to leap out of nowhere.   Where did this sudden rush of form come from?   
GARETH MAYBIN:   Yeah, it's been building for a while to be honest.   Not many people have seen it but I've seen it and I've believed in it, so that's really the only thing that matters.  
   
 Q.   I heard you commenting on that, the blunt stats say that you've played 16 European Tour events and had ten missed cuts, but you said you've felt some good vibes about your game.   
GARETH MAYBIN:   Yeah, how many missed cuts, ten?   I would say five of those are bad shots.   That doesn't really do me justice to be honest.  
   
 Q.   And you've had a couple of good tournaments?  
GARETH MAYBIN:   Yeah, that's right, any time I make the weekend, I seem to put in a good showing, so looking forward to tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   What was the sudden key to today to mastering Castle Stuart?   
GARETH MAYBIN:   Probably eagled 6 to go to 5‑under and then I figured, well, plenty of chances left here.   So my goal is to try to get ten, but left a couple of bogeys in there.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel a real rush of confidence and in total control out there?  
GARETH MAYBIN:   Yeah, I just didn't think I could miss, any time I stood over the putter whether it be for par or birdie or eagle, I just really didn't think I could miss.  
   
 Q.   Must be a good feeling, how often does that happen for a professional golfer?   
GARETH MAYBIN:   Probably once a year (laughing).  
   
 Q.   Realistically, what do you think you can achieve tomorrow?  
GARETH MAYBIN:   I think I can achieve the same again.   Proved I can do it so no reason‑‑ although I think it's supposed to blow a little harder tomorrow and that will change this golf course a lot.  
  
             Played very solid, drove everything well, iron play was great and putted very well.  
   
 Q.   Which sounds an awful lot better than just solid.   
GARETH MAYBIN:   Yeah, it was.   Any time you make the amount of putts I made today, you're going to shoot a low number.  
   
 Q.   How many putts was that then?  
GARETH MAYBIN:   If I was to guess, I'd say maybe around about 26.  
   
 Q.   Which is very good going, but you've been stepping in that kind of direction, haven't you, recently?  
GARETH MAYBIN:   Yeah, I've been playing solid I would say for the last two months.   I don't think my results the last month have showed that but the month before that has been solid, too.   
   
 Q.   Is it something special about playing on a links course and getting the game together?  
GARETH MAYBIN:   Yeah, it's funny, I'm not a big fan of links.   I prefer softer, parkland courses.   I guess after today, that's changed my attitude a little.  
   
 Q.   Not a fan?   You're from Northern Ireland; everyone's a fan.   
GARETH MAYBIN:   Yeah, I've played a lot in America and I like that style of golf, where the unluckiness is taken out of it.   You need a lot of luck around a links course and I definitely got a little of that today.   
   
 Q.   Well, even the Americans who come over say they enjoy the creativity that's involved in it, so are you of that camp, as well, that it might not be your favourite track, but that you can do something a little different?   
GARETH MAYBIN:   Yeah, I love being creative and using my imagination to hit different shots along the ground.   That's definitely my favourite part.  
   
 Q.   You have a big one coming up next week but presumably the focus is on The Scottish Open as things stand.   
GARETH MAYBIN:   Yeah, tomorrow will be a big day.   If I can go out and put in a great performance like I did today, I should have a shot.  
   
 Q.   Excited for next week?  
GARETH MAYBIN:   Oh, no doubt.   It's the pinnacle of golf, isn't it, really, for me, playing in your home open at a top‑quality links golf course.  
   
 Q.   From the minute you knew you were in, were you thinking about it?   
GARETH MAYBIN:   Yeah, I've been buzzing.   I think maybe my caddie is more excited than I am but definitely looking forward.  
   
 Q.   Your position, you're obviously very nicely off now, but having sensed what the course is like, where might you be come the end of day?  
GARETH MAYBIN:   I think probably five, six behind.   There's a lot of top, top names on top of that leaderboard Stenson ones and people like this, shooting 64 or better to be honest.   Yeah, I would say probably five or six back.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT