ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 26, 2012
Gareth Maybin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   A very tidy start to 2012. 
GARETH MAYBIN:   It was good.   Pleasing not to drop a shot, too.   Went out there and had 14 pars and four birdies, all in all, very happy.

Q.   Looked like you had to bide your time and four came in five holes. 
GARETH MAYBIN:   Yeah, I played poorly to start with, lucky to be even par and managed to make a few good swings on my back nine and made a few good putts. 

Q.   15‑footer on the 4th, wasn't it? 
GARETH MAYBIN:   Yeah, I probably made about a 15‑footer for the first one on two, and then got a really lucky bounce on the par3, kicked down the slope to four feet and tapped that in. 
Really good birdie on 6, tough par 4.   So it's pretty good. 

Q.   Was there a relief when the first one did sink after all that run of pars? 
GARETH MAYBIN:   Obviously you don't know which way it's going to go.   You can make a birdie or a bogey but fortunately I made a birdie and took a lot of momentum from it.

Q.   How is the course playing?
GARETH MAYBIN:   It's playing fantastic.   The green staff have done an incredible job.   Not a grass out of place and the greens are perfect.   The fairways are tight and the rough's up.   It's a great test. 

Q.   Just looking at the scoring, impressive nonetheless with the 4‑under, but we've had some very low scores here in the past.   It doesn't seem as likely as things stand?
GARETH MAYBIN:   Yeah, I think we got a little bit lucky with the wind today.   There wasn't a whole lot of it, but if the wind picks up, I think the scoring will escalate quite a bit.

Q.   How well did you winter? 
GARETH MAYBIN:   Yeah, it was fantastic.   The only thing I did really was in the first five weeks was work out and get my fitness back to where it needs to be and with my trainer, Michael Johnson at the Sports Institute and then started backswing probably the start of January. 

Q.   The benefit of it at the time?
GARETH MAYBIN:   Yeah, feel fresh, feel fit.   I don't have any injuries so feel good.

Q.   You were taking it fairly relaxed at the end of last season, must have been some pressure on you going into Hong Kong, extra relief to get it all done and sorted for this year?
GARETH MAYBIN:   Yeah, it wouldn't have been the end of the world if I had not done it.   I would have got starts and I think if you're a good enough player, you'll retain your card, like Marc Warren last year.   The good thing about it is to be able to kind of make a schedule, which is the positive. 

Q.   Do you go into this year with different aims or different schedule to what you played last year?
GARETH MAYBIN:   No, not really.   It will be very similar.   To be honest I think I'll get pretty much every tournament I got last year, maybe bar one or two.   I kind of got my schedule wrong last year, so I won't make that mistake this year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT