NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP: REGIONAL SEMIFINAL: VILLANOVA VS BAYLOR
March 27, 2021
Jermaine Samuels
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
  Baylor - 62, Villanova - 51
 Q. In the second half, what was the problem with the Baylor defense that kind of threw you guys, seemed to throw you guys off offensively?
 JERMAINE SAMUELS:   I guess you could say that we got sped up a little bit.  Their defense went to another level.  During those times you've got to be solid with the ball.  And we just didn't do a good job of staying solid with it, and they got out in transition.
 Q. Now that it is finally wrapped up, how do you truly reflect back on this unprecedented season?
 JERMAINE SAMUELS:   This season is unlike any other I've been a part of, the ups and downs.  But the greatest thing of all is that no one felt sorry for themselves.  No one dwelled on anything.  Everybody just kept having a forward mindset and keeping their attitude and focusing on getting better every day.  And that was the most inspiring thing about the season.
 Q. What was the mood like in the locker room after the game?  Can you just take us through the emotions there?
 JERMAINE SAMUELS:   At first, it was kind of like in shock.  We still feel like we have a lot of basketball left to play.  But it is what it is.  When it finally hit everybody was just thankful that we were part of this journey and that we were on it together -- everybody, from coaching staff to managers, the GAs, just grateful for each other.  It's been a hell of a year.
 Q. I know this is not the way you want to end your season and Sweet 16, but just summarize your whole four years there and what you're going to take from it?
 JERMAINE SAMUELS:   I thought I came in knowing that I -- knowing that I knew basketball and everything about it.  And I realized I didn't right away.  And Coach Wright was patient with me.  Every step of the way I had guys that were older than me that showed me the way, kept in contact, kept encouraging me.  My teammates gave me confidence.
 It wasn't easy at all.  It wasn't a smooth ride.  I could have gave up plenty of times, but the resiliency and this culture alone kept me going.  The guys in this locker room kept me going.  And there's so much I could say, honestly.  But I'm just grateful to have this jersey on my back.
 Q. I know we've asked this to you a few times this year, but now that the season is over and the NCAA giving you that extra option to have another year of eligibility, obviously right after the game probably haven't done a lot of thinking, but what are the next few days going to look like in terms of that from your end?
 JERMAINE SAMUELS:   Honestly, I'm probably not even going to think about it.  I'm probably going to keep my mind off of basketball for a little bit, try to decompress everything and just take my time.  And once the time comes I'll see what my options are.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT