UNIVERSITY OF BUFFALO FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 1, 2016
Ishmael Hargrove
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
Boston College - 35, Buffalo - 3   
 Q.  Just talk about what you did on that play.  What do you remember of that play?  
ISHMAEL HARGROVE: Yeah, well, it was a man coverage, so man coverage is the linebackers are usually responsible for the running backs and things like that, and our job basically for a running back is go on the block.  We pretty much free-wheeled to blitz, so I was in coverage with the running back and I seen that he was blocking everything, so I tried to -- as the offensive line was blocking, kind of find a crease open and went for it.  Luckily I got to him and was able to get the ball out, and luckily I was able to jump on it.   
 Q.  When you jumped on it there was no chance to pick it up and score.  
ISHMAEL HARGROVE: Right.  Yeah, especially how wet it was.  I wasn't going to risk it.  It was down in our territory, too, so I thought it was better safe and sorry, so went ahead and jumped on it.   
 Q.  First three series you come out of the game and they have two punts and a turnover on downs.  What did you think of the way the defense came out to start the game?  
ISHMAEL HARGROVE: Yeah, we definitely came out rolling.  I felt especially down there, they're a power run play offense, so we came out knowing they were going to run the ball, so I felt that the majority of the game, that's where we pretty much knuckled down, was able to limit their run offense, and so I think that was one of our strengths in their game.   
 Q.  Do you think the Army game, the way you played, kept them from having any gash plays against you?  
ISHMAEL HARGROVE: I think that definitely helped us, coming from Army to BC.  Both of them are predominantly run teams.  I think Army prepared us a lot more coming into Boston College, and I also think it helped us, our front seven knuckle down and pretty much play -- come out and hit them in the mouth first in our first few drives.   
 Q.  Their quarterback was able to escape the pocket a few times and scramble.  Thoughts on that?  
ISHMAEL HARGROVE: Yeah, we knew he was a scrambler, and we tried our best to limit his run ability.  He did get loose a few times, and that was one of the things that we wanted to cut down on was the scrambling.  We know that a few plays we had, we pretty much were good on the coverage side of it, but as far as his scrambling that he kind of gashed a little bit, so credit to him for a few of his big plays he had.   
 Q.  Their pass game, they really only kind of got you on some misdirections there.  Late in the first half they had the throw back.  What do you recall of that play?  
ISHMAEL HARGROVE: Yeah, that was also a man coverage, and they kind of got us on the little misdirection.  That was just one of the few big plays we gave up that in the long run hurt us a lot, and going forward we have to limit those big plays because they dictate the outcome of the game.  Going forward, we know that we were in this game, but as I said, the big plays were what hurt us, and going forward we know that we have to limit those.   
 Q.  Defensively is this a game you can build on, though, getting ready for MAC?  
ISHMAEL HARGROVE: Oh, yeah, definitely.   
 Q.  You were playing with them defensively.  
ISHMAEL HARGROVE: Yeah, definitely, I think especially as far as our run defense.  This is a big help for us moving forward, and this is going to prepare us for future in the MAC play, and I feel like this game definitely helped us, and I feel like there's a lot we can learn from this game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT