ROLAND GARROS
May 25, 2015
Juan Monaco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  J. MONACO/F. Delbonis6-7, 6-2, 6-1, 6-7, 6-2br />THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.Q. Tell us about this first match.JUAN MONACO: I felt well.  I had good sensations when I won the match, which was really important, because it is the first match here at Roland Garros.  Well, I was very happy.  It's the first important step.  I'm now focusing on the next match already.Q. You have won 19 matches this season.  Last season, 22.  So much for statistics.  Your performances have clearly improved.  What happened?JUAN MONACO: Well, physically I feel better.  After two tournaments last year I had to stop.  There were ups and downs.  Too many ups and downs, physical ups and downs.  Tennis-wise, I just didn't feel right.  I didn't feel comfortable. Of course, to be competitive, you have to feel good.  So it had an impact on how I felt mentally, not being physically perfect.  It had an impact on how I felt mentally.  That's why I felt like I wasn't just at the top all the time.  Again, too many ups and downs. Whereas this season, it's quite different.  Last year I wasn't amazing, but I was more consistent throughout the season and I was just there in terms of performance.  I think I became used to winning. Even when I was tired, I was able to keep, you know, good efforts.  Even when you lose, it's still important to feel comfortable and confident afterwards. So for four, five months now, I have just managed all this quite well.  I think that physically I feel better, and my tennis is better.Q. Since you lost Davis Cup against Brazil, I think it must have been a turning point.  Then you went to Buenos Aires and Miami with more wins.  Now, at this point in the competition, how do you feel against Serbia?JUAN MONACO: Well, before the Davis Cup I felt very well.  I played well against Ferrer in Rio.  I knew my level was good.  Buenos Aires, then Indian Wells, I was quite successful, too. Honestly, I don't focus on these things too much.  I try to improve my play day after day, and again, I try to stick to my plans throughout the season.  That's what makes my ranking. So right now I'm really focused on this tournament.  I want to be, you know, as good as I can.  My performance has to be as good as possible.Q. Compared to Davis Cup, Federico said that there were very good matches with Berlocq, for example.  Have you talked about technical questions?JUAN MONACO: I talked about Orsanic, the meeting I think you're referring to I did not attend.Q. During the match, at one point you talked to the umpire.  What did you tell him?JUAN MONACO: Well, in the fourth set, 5-4, it was deuce and then advantage.  This was a very important point.  I got this right hand, it came to me, I almost hit the head of one of the referees, and I had told him to step back, to take a step back.  I did a swing, and I think I actually touched his head.  I hit his head. So I asked him to step back a little bit to not be hit again.  That's what happened.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT