SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 30, 2012
Juan Monaco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/J. Monaco
  6‑0, 7‑6

\THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Was it difficult to regroup after such a slow start and then playing so well? 
JUAN MONACO:   I mean, the first set was incredible.   I mean, he played like the real No. 1.   It was tough for me.   Tough. 
Then on the second set I get in on the match, I guess.   Start to serve a little bit better.   Start to believe a little bit on my game.   Start to play better.   Tried to make some rallies and getting into the match.
And then it was big fight on the second set, but he really deserved to win.   I think second set we played a great match, great semifinals match.

Q.   What are you feeling when it's 4‑Love, 5‑Love, the crowd is chanting your name?   They want you to do it but it's hard?
JUAN MONACO:   Yeah.   I mean, nice feelings for me.   Imagine if I'm losing like 4‑0, 5‑0 and I'm a little bit upset.   All the crowd start to sing my name and was great feelings for me.
Then I start to think a little bit better on my mind.   So it was great.   And then on the second set I was happy because I start believing a little bit on my game.
So I like the people were cheering for me a little bit.

Q.   You had a lot of opportunities.   He just seemed to lift his game right at those important ‑‑in the break points.   You were so close.   What's your thoughts on that? 
JUAN MONACO:   I mean, I have like Love‑40 sometimes on the second set, but then he play really well.   I mean, it was like close, but then I got the big opportunity that I have to win that game on 5‑All.
It was important for me, because I couldn't break before.   It's important to my game, because I believe that on my game I return well, but I couldn't ‑‑ I didn't until that game.
And then I start to play a little bit better.   It was tough.   It was tough because I lose many, many opportunities.
But once I break, I start to play a little bit better, I guess.

Q.   Your fitness level, you had a great tournament.   What does your fitness have to do with this?
JUAN MONACO:   No, I'm okay, okay, okay.   I'm okay.   I mean, I play like couple of matches, but feeling well.   Good preparation before the tournament. 
I work to be fit on that kind of matches, and it's okay.   I'm feeling good.

Q.   This doesn't spoil your tournament for you, does it?   You played so well here. 
JUAN MONACO:   Yeah, yeah, yeah. 

Q.   You walk away with a very positive feeling, right?
JUAN MONACO:   Yeah, it's very positive for me. 
No, good, very good.   For me to be on the semifinals, on that stage with champions like Novak and Rafa and Andy Murray, for me it's a great week, amazing.   For sure I will always remember this tournament I like so much.
But I feel like this tournament is gonna bring me a lot of confidence for the next tournaments, so I hope to still playing this way and try to reach another semifinals or even finals.   I don't know. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT