NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LIGHTNING v RANGERS
May 24, 2015
Alain Vigneault
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Special teams have been especially effective for you guys these last few games.   What in the power play in particular do you think is clicking for you? 
    COACH VIGNEAULT:   You know, power play right now is moving the puck well, is getting some good looks.   And on a few of them, we've had second opportunities, so that always helps.

Q.   Speaking of Marty, Marty said that goal in the last game allowed him not to grip the stick as much as he's been.   Does that surprise you from a veteran that it takes that? 
    COACH VIGNEAULT:   Well, Marty is still a kid at heart.   Anybody that's around him knows that he's very passionate about the game.   Doesn't matter, I think, if you're a first‑year professional or a 15‑year professional, when you're having issues in an area, it affects your overall ability. 
    In Marty's case, he was finding other ways to contribute.   He was working extremely hard being the leader that he's supposed to be.   But at the end of the day, we all know that we need him to score goals, and hopefully that will be the start of something really positive for him and our team.

Q.   First couple rounds on both sides were mostly defensive, hard‑checking games.   How do you explain all the goals galore that we're seeing now in both series in the Conference Finals? 
    COACH VIGNEAULT:   Well, I would say I can't really comment on the West.   But in the East right now, you've got No. 1 and No. 3 in scoring. 
    Each game has been very different on how it's been played, and that's to be expected.   I mean, each game unfolds in different ways.   So far, I think it's been a very exciting series where skillset is prime.   I mean, both teams are fast, highly skilled, and it's great for the fans.

Q.   Just to be clear, no issues? 
    COACH VIGNEAULT:   All maintenance, all maintenance.

Q.   And any plans for Zuc to get back out on the ice at any point here? 
    COACH VIGNEAULT:   I couldn't tell you more than what I've said.

Q.   What is the latest on (Indiscernible)?
    COACH VIGNEAULT:   He's day‑to‑day, getting better.

Q.   You talked about the skill set of this and how evenly matched this series is.   What does it take to win two in a row here? 
    COACH VIGNEAULT:   I think both teams are looking for that answer.   Just seems that you have really two highly skilled teams right now that are going at it tooth and nail, competing really hard.   I don't have an answer for you. 
    We're both trying to play our best, and our best has led to in different games, different things.   You're trying to make the other team pay for their mistakes, and that's what we're going to try to do again today.

Q.   What do you think J.T. Miller adds to the line with Brassard?   Any instructions for him or just go out and play the game? 
    COACH VIGNEAULT:   Every player has a role and directive somewhat of what he's supposed to do.   In J.T.'s case, he's a skilled, physical forward that is tough to handle in one‑on‑one situations. 
    I think the reason I moved him up is because I think he's been one of our better forwards, and probably play on that same line again tonight. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT