NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LIGHTNING v RANGERS
May 16, 2015
Alain Vigneault
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Is Tanner playing today?   
COACH VIGNEAULT:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
COACH VIGNEAULT:   I mean, at the end of the day, we had enough time to get the preparation that we wanted, and we had some good meetings yesterday.   We had a good practice.   
Today will be a little bit more condensed because no morning skate.   But at the end of the day, I'm sure both teams are going to be ready.  
   
 Q.   A.V. (Indiscernible).   What is your approach to this Lightning team?   
COACH VIGNEAULT:   Well, their "D" might not be as big as Washington, but they're very mobile.   Their gap is extremely good, and they're really involved in everything from the forecheck to jumping up in the rush, to every breakout opportunity where they can make those little pop plays and jump up.   So it's a different type of team, but Washington was really strong.   I think maybe a little bit underrated by the hockey people.   They played extremely well, and they're going to have a very good defense against us this afternoon.  
   
 Q.   You've been around a lot of prideful veterans, Marty.   Do you sense that one goal will get him going, and do you think he'll be a big factor in this series?   
COACH VIGNEAULT:   Marty is a big‑time player, but at the end of the day, he wants what the rest of his teammates want, and that is to win.   Whether he scores a goal or not, he's got to find ways to contribute, and he has done that.   A very good leader, very focused, and I'm sure he's going to do well.  
   
 Q.   Why do you think your (Indiscernible).   
COACH VIGNEAULT:   There is good preparation that goes into that, and penalty killing is a lot about the willingness to get into the lanes, blocking with six blocked shots, and when all else fails, you need great goaltending, and we always get the goaltending part.  
   
 Q.   Jon Cooper said yesterday he felt like he didn't get your best game when he played you guys in November and December.   How different of a team are you guys and how well have you been playing since you last saw them?   
COACH VIGNEAULT:   You know, it's funny.   We started, and we were about a .500 team when we played them at that time, and I would say maybe a week to ten days after we started to get on a roll.   
So, I mean, that's a long time ago for us, and we've been playing some real solid hockey since then.   But they've been playing some good hockey too.   They beat two really tough opponents, Detroit in 7 games, and Montreal in 6.   So we're looking forward to the match‑up, and I'm sure they are too.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT