NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LIGHTNING v RANGERS
May 15, 2015
Alain Vigneault
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How much difference (Indiscernible)? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   Well, it's definitely a different team that the game is more suited to speed and skill.   Highest scoring team in the league.   They've gotten some phenomenal goaltending throughout the season and the playoffs.   A team that comes at you hard, very hard on the forecheck, and very good on transition.   So it's going to be quite a challenge.   I mean, it goes from Crosby‑Malkin, to Ovechkin‑Backstrom, to Stamkos and Johnson, it should be a lot of fun.

Q.   Could you describe your team too? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   Did I just describe my team?   You know, we obviously are a team that likes to handle the puck and go north‑south quickly.   I do think against a team like that we're going to have to defend really well.   A big part of our game is going to be taking away that speed and skill which we've been able to do fairly well throughout the season and in the playoffs. 
Now we've got another level of challenge in front of us, and we're ready for it.

Q.   What do you expect from your former players out there?   You talk about the forecheck, and Boyle always steps up in the pocket. 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   The key thing there is former players.   I know they're great people, but I've got to worry about my team, getting our group ready.   I've got to worry about my guys playing a sound, fundamental game, and I'm sure their coach will do the same thing.

Q.   Do you think it could be a distraction at all?   Obviously you're going to focus on your game, but(indiscernible).
COACH VIGNEAULT:   We are?   (Laughing)? 

Q.   Do you think that could be a bit of a distraction? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   I don't think so.   This is a very focused and mature group that's dealt with distractions in the past.   It hasn't let them wander from the task at hand, and the preparation and focus that it needs to go out take it, and focus on the game that's coming up and doing the right thing. 
So I think you can try as much as you want on bringing it up.   I don't think it's going to distract our group.

Q.   Do you think Bishop's regular season record against you guys means anything? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   I don't know at this time of the year if you can put stock into we lost three games against him.   He's been really good.   When we went into Montreal last year in the playoffs everyone wasn't bringing up Hank's record against Montreal.   Didn't have that much of an impact.   Nobody focuses on that. 
I think both teams got in yesterday.   They're practicing at this time, I think right now.   They're going to focus on tomorrow afternoon's game.   They're going to try to play really well and we're going to try to do the same thing.

Q.   Is there a chance that Zuccarello will play in this series?
COACH VIGNEAULT:   There's always hope.

Q.   If he does, how do you intend to proceed with your top line? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   Like I've done throughout the series and through different games, I'm going to do what I feel is best for our group and gives us the best chance to win.

Q.   Do you anticipate (Indiscernible)? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   At this time, I would say yes.   Today was an extra maintenance day, so unless something changes from now until tomorrow afternoon, I would say yes.

Q.   St. Louis had a chance to practice.   Where's his game right now? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   Oh, he's working really hard.   That line has had some good looks.   They've been able to get on the score sheet.   Defensively they've been very responsible.   Obviously, when you talk about Martin St. Louis, Rick Nash, and Derick Brassard, you're taking three strong offensive players and can we get a little more out of them?   I think we need a little more out of our whole group.   If our intention, and I believe they are, is to race the floor and get there first, we're going to need everybody stepping up their game.   Marty is no different than everybody else in our team.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
COACH VIGNEAULT:   I couldn't answer that.   I haven't asked him.   I mean, maybe you did.   But I didn't ask him and I don't bring up his former team to him.

Q.   What does he do (Indiscernible)?
COACH VIGNEAULT:   He's got two things.   He's got tremendous hockey sense, both defensively and offensively.   He can read the game really well, and he works like an SOB.   He works and he works and he works.   He just doesn't stop, and that makes him a really effective player.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
COACH VIGNEAULT:   I think he started doing everything but.

Q.   Any concern over Brian Boyle? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   No.

Q.   The Brassard line, is it different because of the personnel that you're playing? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   Whatever I do personnel‑wise, we've gone through this throughout different questions.   I'm not going to bring it up now if I do decide to.

Q.   What about the circumstances? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   The circumstances being? 

Q.   Marty playing for the team. 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   We're going to do what's best for the group.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
COACH VIGNEAULT:   I would expect him to be there tomorrow knowing him and who he is.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
COACH VIGNEAULT:   He's got two very young players that are a little bit like him on the upswing of their careers, two guys that love being on the ice and want responsibility.   So there is no doubt that since I've put that line together, they've been very good against other players. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT