NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: RANGERS v KINGS
June 13, 2014
Alain Vigneault
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for coach. 

Q.   You've been asked a lot about the hockey gods.   Friday the 13th, how does that play into the whole thing?
COACH VIGNEAULT:   I'm sure it's a good day.   It's going to work out fine (laughter). 

Q.   A bunch of guys were talking about how Game4 was maybe your worst game of the series and you won.   Do you take a measure of confidence in that?
COACH VIGNEAULT:   Well, we were good for 30 minutes.   Had a two‑goal lead.   We were able to win it.   We had lost a couple of two‑goal leads prior to that. 
I think in general for our group, we had no choice.   We had to find a way to win.   We did.   We got another chance tonight. 

Q.   I know the team isn't thinking of four wins in a row, but the team hasn't stopped believing that's possible.   Do you see that?   Why do you think that is?
COACH VIGNEAULT:   I feel that we need to focus on tonight.   We know that we can play better than we did last game.   We're going to have to. 
We've played well in this building.   We've played real well on the road.   We need to put our best game on the ice tonight. 

Q.   How do you do that?   In the third period especially, did you feel like you were playing all‑encompassing defense, not doing what you wanted to do?
COACH VIGNEAULT:   We were defending.   We didn't have the puck.   When you don't have the puck, you're defending. 
We're going to try to have the puck a little bit more tonight.   We're a good team when we go north/south real quick and have puck possession team in the other team's end.   That's what we're going to do tonight. 

Q.   The power play obviously has struggled a bit in this series.   Would you consider changing the personnel, especially with Brad?
COACH VIGNEAULT:   Our power play has had some good looks.   It obviously hasn't finished.   You could say Benoit Pouliot's goal, our guy was stepping on the ice, close to a power play goal. 
It's had some good looks, some good shots.   You have to show trust and confidence in your guys that they'll get it done for you.   Hopefully they will tonight. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT