NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: RANGERS v KINGS
June 7, 2014
Alain Vigneault
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Coach Vigneault. 

Q.   No Cam Talbot?
    COACH VIGNEAULT:   No.

Q.   You have a lot of experience with this West Coast, East Coast, the travel.   What are the benefits of having the team stay over and traveling tomorrow instead of going right after the game? 
    COACH VIGNEAULT:   Well, it's just common sense.   I mean, if we were to fly home after the game, we'd be leaving here, let's say, 9:00 western time, which is 12:00 our time, we'd be getting home at 5:00 or 6:00 in the morning.   You lose a full night's sleep.   Obviously you don't sleep the same way on a plane than you do in your own bed.   We're going to stay over and fly tomorrow. 

Q.   Is that something you had to learn or, like you said, you knew that from the get‑go when you got to Vancouver?
    COACH VIGNEAULT:   I would just say it's common sense.   I think anybody knows it.   When we were in Vancouver, we had a company that worked with us.   Mike Gillis was always trying to be proactive in different areas.   That was one of the different areas he was proactive. 
    He found some research, found a company, helped us with our schedule and our travel. 

Q.   Is there anything that you're particularly in tune to early to confirm that guys have the A game you talked about or is that something you don't answer till the game is over?
    COACH VIGNEAULT:   You know, we've talked about it with our group.   Our group knows the importance of today's game.   They're going to try and put their best game on the ice. 
    They've been very professional in how they prepare.   We got through the first game jitters.   Obviously we don't have the experience that L.A. does.   With you we got them through that first game, took them to overtime, and I think we'll be better tonight. 

Q.   Do you view this as a must‑win, considering how strong a team the Kings are?
    COACH VIGNEAULT:   I mean, obviously it's a real important game.   Each game is important.   Today, this is the second game of the series.   I think we can play better, and that's what we're going to try and do. 
    Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT