NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RANGERS v CANADIENS
May 29, 2014
Alain Vigneault
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Coach Vigneault. 

Q.   Just curious, your reaction to the suspension that John Moore was given yesterday by the league. 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   Doesn't matter.   So I don't have any reaction. 

Q.   Talk about Diaz, how he fits in there with Klein?
COACH VIGNEAULT:   We have Diaz or Falk that are available to us tonight.   Diaz has played a little bit of left side.   When he has, he has been good.   So we'll make that decision come tonight. 

Q.   What are you expecting from the crowd tonight?   One of the biggest hockey games in 20 years at MSG. 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   You pretty much said it. 
Should be exciting for everyone, fans, players, coaches, everybody.   It's going to be a great game.   Two teams that are competing real hard, battling for every inch on the ice.   It should be a lot of fun. 

Q.   Just knowing the way that Henrik bounced back in that Phillies series after being pulled in Game 6, what are you expecting from him tonight?
COACH VIGNEAULT:   I expect him to play like he always does.   I mean, he's a great goaltender.   He strives when the pressure is on.   He knows that tonight's a big game. 
I heard Benoit Allaire say tonight when we talked?     Tonight is a big game.   I think he picked up on that and we'll be fine (laughter). 

Q.   Can you talk specifically what you like about Diaz, what he brings to you?
COACH VIGNEAULT:   He's a good defenseman in the sense that he's not overly physical, but he's got good instincts, he moves the puck well, he can help us on the power play. 
He's going to be all right.   I mean, every time we've used him this year, he's been good for us. 

Q.   Klein seems to be up in the play a little bit more lately.   Has that been a point of emphasis or is he just going with the flow?
COACH VIGNEAULT:   Sometimes in a game, players‑‑ the situation dictates that you either defend or you can attack a little bit more. 
In Kleiner's case, there's been some opportunities for him to jump up on the attack.   Our D's have the green light. 

Q.   Do you use that five‑minute stretch in the second period in Game5, especially where Nash was pressing the issue, as an example of how your team needs to play?
COACH VIGNEAULT:   We've moved on past Game5.   We're focused on tonight.   We know how we need to play.   We've gone through it with our players. 
Our players know the type of execution that they need on the ice.   They're going to go out tonight and put it on. 
Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT