NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RANGERS v CANADIENS
May 28, 2014
Alain Vigneault
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Coach, is he such a veteran, that he let it be? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   I just gave him a quick Pat after the game, but Henrik doesn't need to hear anything from me.   He's a veteran player.   One of the best in his area, and I'm sure he's going to be focused and ready for the next game.

Q.   Did you talk to Henrik and ask if he wanted to go back in? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   No.

Q.   To what extent did giving up the power plays in the previous games?   To what extent did seeing the penalty happen as it did, what was going through your mind then? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   Yeah, I mean, our guys didn't really need to get a huge reminder that eight penalties, and most of them in the offensive zone, is not something you want to do in the playoffs.   You know?   They were aware that we needed to be better in that area. 
Unfortunately, right off the hop we took a penalty, and it was definitely a penalty, but maybe put us on our heels there a little bit.   But I thought after that it took us a couple of shifts, but we responded well.   We tied the game up, and tough part was giving up that second goal right away, just like when we tied it up 4‑4, giving up the next scoring chance in the back of our net makes it challenging.

Q.   Some of the guys were talking about it being a crazy game and you couldn't get it under control.   Did you get a sense it was right from the start? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   Yeah, it was right from the start.   It was one of those games where very few times this year have we given up the amount of goals we gave up yesterday.   Coming back, being down 4‑1, and coming back, tying it 4‑4 is obviously very positive for our group.   But then the next scoring chance in the back of our net is not as positive.   You know, it's just one of those games.   We're going to turn the page and move on.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
COACH VIGNEAULT:   Don't worry about it.   It's over with.   Move on.

Q.   When you play as many players as you have done already this postseason, is it inevitable that you're going to have games like this with up‑and‑downs? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   You know, I would say the same as in the course of a season where all of a sudden something pops up that you don't see very often.   Last night, without taking anything away from Montreal because obviously they played a good game, they were ready from the start.   For us, it was one of those nights where we're behind.   We're trying to fight back.   We are fighting back.   They always seem to be able to get the next goal.   It was one of those nights.

Q.   You talked about creating desperation, and immediately the veterans winning close to Game 7.   Is the coaching or coaching staff, can they create desperation to get them? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   You know, I don't think our guys need to hear desperation from us or extra motivation.   We're one win away from moving on to the Stanley Cup Finals.   We weren't as good as we could be last night.   We know that, in a couple of areas.   We're going to address that once we land in New York today, and then we're going to get ready for tomorrow.

Q.   Did you get a chance to review John Moore's hit? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   Yeah, but league standard, and I know the league standard very well because a couple years ago in the Boston series against my former team in Vancouver, and it doesn't meet the league standard as far as a late hit.   It was a hit that Johnny caught him a little high in the chest, player didn't see it coming.   It probably warrants the penalty that was given on the ice.   Other than that, I don't see what else it could warrant, but I've been surprised before.   We'll see what happens.

Q.   Besides the lateness of the hit, was it a blind side angle? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   Well, the player didn't see him coming, obviously, but the guy was admiring his pass a little bit at the same time.   Unfortunately, it was a hit in the head because of the force of the hit, the head seemed to snap back a little bit.   But as far as what I know about league standards and from what I heard from the Prust hit where the dynamics of the hit changed because Stepan was hurt, I don't see that at this time right now.

Q.   Coach, if he is suspended, do you have the next man up?
COACH VIGNEAULT:   We're not there yet.   I don't expect anything. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT