NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LIGHTNING v RANGERS
May 27, 2015
Alain Vigneault
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can you predict (Indiscernible) the next series (Indiscernible)?   
COACH VIGNEAULT:   Well, I think what you can predict is that two teams are going to go on the ice and battle and work extremely hard to try and win a game.   I mean, you've got two highly skilled teams that both want to win.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
COACH VIGNEAULT:   It's Game 7.   In this sport it doesn't get much better than this.   
Starting tomorrow ‑‑ today will be a day where we're going to rest up a little bit, but starting tomorrow we're going to focus on the elements that we need to do on the ice to have a good game.   We're going to narrow our players' focus to exactly that, that permits us to stay in the moment, go on the ice and execute.   And that's what we're going to try and do.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible) how you're going to spend it?   
COACH VIGNEAULT:   The games at MSG have been a little different, how they've played themselves out.   But this is Game 7, I'm very confident that our group is going to go on the ice, make the plays that need to be made against such a strong opponent.   
There are some plays, like it's going to be our 7th game in a short amount of time against this team.   There are some plays that we know we need to make against that team to have success, and hopefully we'll be able to execute them.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
COACH VIGNEAULT:   You know, again, are we going to be into‑‑ like last night, it looked like it was going to be another 2‑1 game, and it turned out to be a little different.   Games are going to unfold.   We're hoping to be able to make the other team pay for some mistakes.   
In Game 7, you need different guys stepping up, and hopefully we'll have more than one.  
   
 Q.   Coach, when you challenge the players (indiscernible) are you angry?   Are you blunt?   (Indiscernible)?   How do you define (indiscernible)?   
COACH VIGNEAULT:   You know, I would always prefer that those conversations stay between a player and a coach.   Sometimes players get a little excited after a big win and they don't want to share things.   
But what started as a challenge, it was more like this is the reality, and this is what we need you guys to do.   And they're both very professional.   They both understood what I was talking about, and it wasn't that big of a deal.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible) what's it say about your team that they will not let that be a factor?   
COACH VIGNEAULT:   Every team you meet in the playoffs has those dynamic players.   There's definitely a plan for the dynamic players on how to play them.   He is one of their great players and leading personalities in the league.   He's definitely one of the best.   So we definitely have a plan we're trying to implement, but it's not easy against that skill level.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
COACH VIGNEAULT:   On the (indiscernible) call?   Yeah.   I mean, I think 90% of the people watching that hit, the numbers are there, five, six guys face into the boards.   You've got to play through that at this time.   
I mean, as much as ‑‑ at some point you're happy that a player protects their teammate, and at this time not knowing what the guys calling are going to call, I mean, attempt to turn the other cheek and let's play.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT