NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RANGERS v CANADIENS
May 22, 2014
Alain Vigneault
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Coach, I know every time you've been asked about (No Audio).   What else did you guys do as well? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   I'd say a combination of the willingness to get in shooting lanes and having good sticks.   Penalty killing is four guys on the ice working together with the goaltender, and our guys have done a good job there.

Q.   What is your impression of Brassard these past few days and how he's looked for this team? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   Well, he's still day‑to‑day, and he's been a big part of our offensive success, so we're a better team when he's in our lineup.

Q.   I was just wondering, how valuable are those postgame celebrations or postgame (No Audio) during the long playoffs leading to the Stanley Cup? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   I think you'd be better off to ask the players that one.   They're the ones that came up with the idea.

Q.   (No Audio) is it all window dressing? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   I don't think it's about window dressing, but I think players have come up with the idea, so they're best suited to answer that question.

Q.   Can you just describe the mood of the team right now?   Do you have the confidence of that 2‑0 series lead, even though Game 2 was the Canadiens took control? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   Well, we're a confident group with our total attention is on tonight's game and what we need to do to have success.   Since we've had a longer stretch here in between Game 2 and Game 3 tonight, we've been able to go through a couple of areas that we feel we must be better tonight, and we've gone through areas that we need to continue to do well.   We know that they're going to be ready.   They're going to want to play a good game, and we're definitely going to be ready also.

Q.   It's been five years since this team was last up two games in a series, and a lot of the guys in this room have maybe not been in that situation before.   Is there a key in terms of the approach to this kind of game when you're up in a series like this? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   I can't talk about what happened prior to when I was here.   I mean, since I've been here, this is my third playoff series, first time we've gone up 2‑0.   In every other series, we've had the same approach.   We've focused on the game coming up.   That's what we're doing tonight is we're focusing on this game.

Q.   On the penalty kill, what is the difference between the Flyers and the Penguins and now?   What are the Canadiens doing (No Audio)? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   I can't get into technically on‑‑ I mean, you have three great teams there with three great power plays.   Each team has his own tendencies.   You analyze it.   You come up with a plan to go up against those tendencies, and you make sure that you've got great goaltending, and that's been probably the biggest part of our penalty killing. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT