NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RANGERS v CANADIENS
May 20, 2014
Alain Vigneault
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  COACH VIGNEAULT:   In the playoffs it was a little bit of a challenging moment, but we kept working on finding a solution, and the solution is pretty simple.   Get the puck a little bit more, get a little more traffic, and we were able to do that.   Got us a big goal in the Pittsburgh series, and we were able to move on.

Q.   Question about top line scoring vs. playing four lines.
COACH VIGNEAULT:   I'm not sure we really have a top line like you said.   We're all four lines, a lot like the Habs, our scoring is balanced similar on the three lines or top three lines.   Our fourth line brings us a lot of energy and a lot of physicality and can spend some quality time on the ice.   It has found ways to contribute offensively. 
So that's the only way I think you can move on with such a commanding lead.   That's how you get into the playoffs and how you get through somewhere else.

Q.   But if Rick Nash is able to score goals, it seems to add an extra dimension to your team.
COACH VIGNEAULT:   Well, I think it ’s safe to say everybody   expected Rick to score.   He was brought in for his production.   He's going through what players go through now and then.   He stuck with it.   His teammates stuck with him.   He kept working extremely hard, and it was just a matter of time for him, in our estimation, to come out of it and now it looks good for us.

Q.   When you go through that slump, do you say anything to make sure the confidence is there? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   You know, when players go through that you tell them all the lines:  “I ’ve got a lot of faith in you. ” and  “You ’re working real hard. ” Yada, yada yada...   At the end of the day, they've got to work themselves through it.   They've got to believe in themselves, and that's what Rick did and most of our guys are trying to do.

Q.   Did the penalty bother you last night? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   Three penalties, 200 feet from our net, not crazy about it. 

Q.   Brad said he was pretty certain you'd go over that first period with them as well.   Any thoughts on that? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   Yeah, it's no secret that our start to last night's game -- Give Montreal full marks they came at us real hard.   But at the end of the day, we need to play better than we did.   We can't rely on our goaltending the way we did last night, and we're not going to next game.

Q.   It's been hard for teams to hang on to the lead in series in the playoffs.   It's kind of been the story line.   Is that any part of the messaging or anything they need to hear? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   What we try to do is  – and I know you get sick and tired of hearing it --   but one game at a time, one shift at a time and we want to play the right way.   That's what's gotten us here, and that's what's going to keep us here.

Q.   When you see Rick score the way he did last night, do you think he's thinking less out there too? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   Players have to play with their instincts.   When they think too much about what they should be doing, it doesn't flow.   Maybe that's a little bit of what happened to Rick.   But right now he's shooting well, and he created some good chances yesterday, and he's back on the right track for us.

Q.   How did you feel about John Moore's game last night? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   Yeah, I thought for the most part he did all right.   We need our six "Ds", obviously.   Mack and Marc Staal on the left side are playing more minutes.   So it's only between 10 or 14 minutes left.   So I thought for the most part he handled it all right.

Q.   With Brassards injury, knowing you had a few days off before Game 3, was he part of the equation for yesterday or was he just not ready to go? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   Couldn ’t stop a French guy from playing in Montreal.

Q.   Do you expect him to be available for Game 3? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   Day to day right now. If I was a betting man … … ….

Q.   Montreal's starting goalie, do you have an inkling for Game 3?
COACH VIGNEAULT:   I do, but I'm not willing to share it with you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT