NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LIGHTNING v RANGERS
May 26, 2015
Alain Vigneault
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What have you seen from Yandle in the last couple games here? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   He's working extremely hard.   He's trying to make some plays.   Obviously, you know, with the pressure sometimes our "D" are under ‑‑ a little bit more challenging to make the right play.   But he's got the right idea, and we need him tonight to find a way to get a couple more pucks to the net, and we'll be in good shape.

Q.   Can you talk about the challenges of the pressure he faces (Indiscernible)?   What kind of challenge does that represent for him? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   Well, it's a big challenge.   It's the biggest team that we've met this year, and not just when they have the puck, but when they don't have it, they are quick to put pressure.   You've got to have your heads up.   You've got to be thinking a play ahead, and you've got to make the right plays.

Q.   Coach, what did you notice in the first quarter of that game when you had so much zone time, but it was difficult to generate those strong scoring chances that you want? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   Yeah, for the first 35 minutes of the last game, I thought our puck possession, the amount of time that we were trying to get some good looks, we did everything but get the looks.   So our execution is going to need to be a little bit quicker, and we have no choice.   I mean, if we want to move on, we're going to have to be better tonight.

Q.   Coach, Hank's been so good for you guys when your backs have been against the wall.   How much confidence does that give you going into tonight? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   Not just Hank, our whole group.   This is a team game and there is no doubt that as a group tonight that we've got to come up with our best game of the year, and that's what we're going to try and do.

Q.   Zuccarello hops on at the end there.   Assuming no chance he plays tonight, but is there any update? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   Day‑to‑day, and he's getting better.

Q.   Any concern with the guys that missed the skate this morning? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   No, no, everybody's good.

Q.   Is it just maintenance? 
COACH VIGNEAULT:   Maintenance, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT