NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v CANUCKS
June 4, 2011
Alain Vigneault
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions to Coach Vigneault. 

 Q. Coach, will Manny play tonight? 
 COACH VIGNEAULT: Game-time decision.

 Q. What about Dan?
 COACH VIGNEAULT: Game-time decision. 

 Q. I asked Claude this last series, too, the issue with Patrice Bergeron, would he play or not. Do you think there's competitive advantage not to share that information? 
 COACH VIGNEAULT: I believe at the end of the day at this time of the year when there's a lot at stake, you don't want the opposition to know if a certain player has this or that so that. Let's just put it this way: so they don't try to exploit something. It's as simple as that. 
 I mean, during the season we share everything, as open as we can, but we don't play the same team usually two nights in a row. So that's probably why most teams do it this way. 

 Q. When you first came here, was there ever an instance where you got the twins mixed up or did you know right off the hop which was which? 
 COACH VIGNEAULT: It took me three years to tell them apart. I'm not proud of that. The fourth year, when Danny got hurt, was out of basically my sight for about six weeks, I finally figured out what Hank looked like on a regular basis. Then when I saw Danny again, I was really embarrassed that I couldn't tell them apart because they don't look alike at all. They got two different personalities. I'm not proud to say it took me three years to figure it out.

 Q. You said 'personalities.' What are the differences?
 COACH VIGNEAULT: Danny's a little bit more quiet, listens to his brother. Whereas Henrik is obviously a lot more outspoken, usually speaks for the both of them, so... 

 Q. Not to belabor the point, the injury thing, some of us get a chance to cover the National Football League, most successful sports league in North America. They have protocol. By Thursday they tell who is playing, not playing. Do you see a day when this league would follow down that road and would it be a good thing for you if they did?
 COACH VIGNEAULT: At this time right now, I believe in protecting my players. For me, this is the best way to protect them. I can't really comment on what the NFL is doing. But for now this is what everybody is doing in our league. 

 Q. Should Manny be able to play, is he capable of doing everything that he was doing before he got hurt? 
 COACH VIGNEAULT: Well, I think if he is able to play, we understand that he's been out for quite some time now. We'll ease him in. 
 But his strong points are he's good on faceoffs, he's smart in our zone. So probably in those situations there we would use him. I'm definitely not going to use him with his linemates that he had before. That line is playing real well, Torres, Lapierre and Hansen. I have no intention of breaking that up.

 Q. Can you address the discipline factor. Both teams maybe got more penalties than they would have liked. That might be part of the reason regarding Game 1 of a Cup final, everyone is more amped up. 
 COACH VIGNEAULT: I know some of the penalties we took in the offensive zone 200 feet from our net, we'd like to stay away from that. I thought a couple of unfortunate calls, like Danny's four minutes where his stick ends up in Chara's face there, that's a long way for a stick to go, but it ended up up there. 
 We're obviously going to try to be better in that area tonight. Hopefully our power-play will be more effective, too. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT