AL DIVISION SERIES: ANGELS v RED SOX
October 6, 2007
Mike Napoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  First of all, what's the title and artist for the music on your phone there?   
 MIKE NAPOLI:  Oh, I don't even know what song's on there right now.  It's probably Shop Boyz.   
  
  Q.  During the last couple of weeks of the season you kind of lost some offensive momentum as a team.  Do you feel like that's carried over in the first couple of games?   
 MIKE NAPOLI:  No, not really.  I mean, you take some tough pitches, tough to score runs in the playoffs, but we just gotta keep doing our thing, keep going first and third and doing our hit and runs and staying aggressive.   
 It's just part of what's going on right now and just gotta go out there and do it.   
  
  Q.  Does the suddenness of last night's loss compiled with the long flight home affect the team and how do you guys recharge, regroup for tomorrow's game?   
 MIKE NAPOLI:  We had a day off today.  I mean, last night was a tough loss.  We just gotta forget about that.  We gotta win three straight and we can't lose anymore.   
 We've got to get out there tomorrow and get out there and just keep going.  Can't really look back into the games, you gotta move forward and just keep going.  Down to the third game and we're just going to keep going out there playing baseball.   
  
  Q.  Mike, has Scioscia indicated to you whether or not you're going to be in the lineup tomorrow?  And what does Jered have to do to be successful in Game 3 against the Red Sox?   
 MIKE NAPOLI:  I don't know if I'm in the lineup or not.  I won't find out until tomorrow.  But we have to go out there and get ahead of the hitters and just pitch down.  He throws a lot of strikes, he can locate well.  If he can locate all three pitches, he should have a good outing.   
  
  Q.  What have you seen from Jered this season that would lead you to believe he's ready for this big game in the first playoff start?   
 MIKE NAPOLI:  He'd like to be out there and I have a feeling that he'd like this type of situation.  He knows he's good and he knows that he can get the win out there.  He's going to go out there and he's going to pitch well and he's going to do what he has to do tomorrow.  So we're not too worried about it.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT