NASCAR CAMPING WORLD TRUCK SERIES: FORD ECOBOOST 200
November 20, 2015
Tyler Reddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Tyler, we appreciate your patience. He's our series runner‑up, 2015 NASCAR Camping World Truck Series. Also finished third in tonight's race. That's Tyler Reddick. He's the driver of the No.19 Broken Bow Music Group Ford for BKR. He had two wins this season. He led the season off with an impressive win at Daytona. He also won at Dover.   
Tyler, congratulations. I know this wasn't the prize you wanted to get, but a heck of a season for you in 2015. Your thoughts at this time?   
TYLER REDDICK: Well, obviously first off, I can't thank my team enough, Brad Keselowski Racing did an outstanding job all year long. We've grown so much together these last two years, and this first full‑time season we knew was going to be a challenge for us, but we started off very well on the right footing, and we just worked together good all year long.   
It's been really great to have BBR Music Group on board. It's been great working with Cequent Performance Products, with Draw‑Tite, and Reese Tow Power and those guys the last two years. I've really enjoyed it a lot.   
It was tasking at times. We were definitely really fast at times, too. Unfortunately we didn't lead as many laps as the other two competitors, and we didn't win as many races. But we were very consistent. We were proud about that, and just we've got to move on to next year, and hopefully we can plug away at it and get a championship done for our team. I know what second place feels like now, and I really don't like it too much. So if I didn't have enough reasons to win the championship, I've got one more.   
   
 Q. Tyler, did you have expectations coming into the season, and did this first full season meet or exceed what you thought you could accomplish this year?   
TYLER REDDICK: Going into this year, our standards were set very high. We wanted to win the championship. And obviously a lot of people‑‑ I feel like a lot of people didn't think we were capable of that. We didn't end up being capable of it. As you see, we were runner‑up. We were always very strong throughout the season. We were always right there. Unfortunately we were just a little too short there coming into Homestead to really mix it up in the last race. The 4 had quite a comfortable points gap.   
That was a shame, but you know, I had a couple bad races on my part that definitely took us out of the points lead and dropped us back there towards the end. Just learning and understanding what's worth the risk and what's your reward. We picked up on a few things. We definitely got more consistent toward the end of the season. Not always were we the fastest, but we'd always run clean races and be there at the end to have a shot at winning the races. Unfortunately that only happened for us twice this year, but I feel like if we play our cards right and do things right like we did this year that we'll have shots like that again in the future.   
   
 Q. What do you think you would have to do better next year to win the championship? And do you feel like we should be looking at you as a favorite to win the championship next year?   
TYLER REDDICK: Well, I'll leave that up to you guys for you to decide or not. We were the runner‑up obviously. Matt had an outstanding year. He wasn't his normal self. He was a lot more about wins than consistency. Obviously we had two‑‑ I had two races where I made mistakes that were purely just rookie mistakes, so obviously New Hampshire was not a good race for our team, and Gateway. We were in position to win that race and I missed a couple shifts and took us out of that one.   
There was a couple races there that really took us out of them. Obviously the road course and New Hampshire were some of our probably two worst finishes. Those were the two races we were never really able to rebound from, and I think those put us behind the most.   
   
 Q. You had Austin Taylor back in the 29 truck this weekend. What was it like having him back on the team after everything he's been through?   
TYLER REDDICK: I was really happy to have him back in the truck. He's a really good friend of mine, and it was a really hard thing to watch what he had to go through. He's a lot stronger than I ever could be. He proved that already. He had to come back through a lot of adversity, and he really wanted to get back in the truck.   
You know, he went through the process and what it takes to get back in the truck NASCAR set forth for him, and he didn't have the run he wanted here, but he was really good in practice and he got right back up to speed, which is always great. He proved he's not afraid of it, and the wreck didn't affect how he raced us.   
Hopefully he has some opportunities next year. It's a real shame that I kind of took that away from him throughout the year. These last few races were supposed to be his, and hopefully he has an opportunity with somebody next year to showcase his talent. I definitely have all the faith in the world that he's a great driver.   
   
 Q. How much do you think Daniel Hemric will help you next season? You've got an average of 6.5 through the season, but to build on that and to have a new full‑time teammate, how do you think that's going to play into your championship hopes?  
TYLER REDDICK: I'm probably going to lean on ‑‑ he is the new driver coming in, but I'll probably lean on him more than he will lean on me. He's done a lot of asphalt racing. He's a very smart driver, and I will definitely look forward to having him on the team. Hopefully I can be of help to him in my areas where I seem to get away with things that most people can't somehow, but for the most part he's a very easy‑‑ he knows what's going on in the truck a lot better than I do. I just get lucky and sling it and don't hit anything most of the time.   
I'm really looking forward to having him on board. I'm really looking forward to next year. It's going to be great to have Daniel on board, and it'll be interesting to see what next year has for us.   
THE MODERATOR: Tyler, congratulations. You've been a very, very solid competitor this season. You had a very solid year, and I know bigger and better things are ahead. Congratulations on a good season for you.   
TYLER REDDICK: Thank you very much.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT