SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 5, 2014
Carlos Sainz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MARK STEVENS:   We'd like to welcome Carlos Sainz.   Carlos, you're getting ready to make your second career start on the PGA TOUR, and no better place than here at the Sanderson Farms Championship, where you went to school just up the road at Mississippi State.   Kind of talk about your thoughts coming into this week and then we'll have a few questions.   
CARLOS SAINZ:   Yeah, I mean, really excited for this week, not too far from the school I went to, and there will be hopefully some hometown people rooting for me.   Just really excited to play in my second start on the PGA TOUR.   It was a good year this past year on the Web.com, and looking forward to starting the season off on the right step.   
Nice to be playing in Mississippi.   My coaches are from down here, spend a lot of time here in the off‑seasons.   Just excited to play.   
MARK STEVENS:   Also you played the course yesterday, I believe.   Kind of talk a little bit about the conditions and your thoughts on the course, this being a new venue this year.   
CARLOS SAINZ:   Yeah, the course is good.   I haven't played it too much being from Mississippi State.   Playing there, we didn't really come to Jackson and play too much.   But the course is in really good shape.   The greens are in great shape, kind of old‑school.   Greens kind of set up a little bit, straight Bermuda.   
Just looking forward to a good week.   You've got to kind of hit it pretty good out here just to score well because the rough is kind of gnarly and spotty in spots, and then obviously just a hot putter.   You need to be putting good out here.   The greens are fast, they're undulating, they're subtle.   But yeah, the course is in great shape.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the greens.   If they're soft, will you be playing a little more aggressively?  
CARLOS SAINZ:   Yeah, I think if the greens are soft you can definitely play more aggressively.   Some of these pins are cut over bunkers, and there's a little bit of grain out there, so if you have a pin cut over a bunker, you can't really go at it if it's real firm.   If they're soft you can go at the pins and hold those little shelves and the elbow pins and you can play definitely more aggressively if it's soft.   If it gets firm on the weekend, you're definitely not going to be playing to all the pins on the corners.   That's kind of the defense that they have out here is putting some good pins out there just because the course is pretty well in front of you, not too many hazards off the tee, so yeah, if it's soft, you definitely play more aggressively out here.   
   
 Q.   You played a practice round yesterday with Jonathan Randolph and Camden Backel.   What was that experience like?   
CARLOS SAINZ:   It was good.   Jonathan is a good buddy of mine.   We take from the same teachers down in West Point, Mississippi.   Camden, young kid, really nice kid, really excited for him, first PGA TOUR start at 17.   I don't know what he was obviously thinking playing with us, but it must have been some cool things.   It was just a good practice round, try to get used to the golf course.   Both nice guys.   Jonathan is a good friend of mine, so just a good day.  
   
 Q.   How are you feeling about your game in general going into this week?  
CARLOS SAINZ:   I feel good.   Two weeks ago at Sea Island was my first start.   Actually played pretty good, just didn't putt good.   Beyond that I had a really good end of the year last year on the Web and trying to take my momentum on to the end of this season.   Kind of weird having a couple weeks off and kind of hanging up the clubs for a couple weeks and then getting back out and trying to get as many starts as I can based on my priority ranking.   As of right now my game looks good, and I'm looking forward to a good week.   
   
 Q.   Did coming off the Web.com help you feel fresh starting this year?   
CARLOS SAINZ:   You know, I think so.   I think on the PGA TOUR they're playing up to the same‑‑ pretty much the same amount of golf as we were.   But yeah, definitely coming off the Web and going on to the wraparound season keeps you a little sharp for sure.   This is kind of my first go‑around at it, but definitely didn't have enough time to kind of lose what I was building at the end of the year, and I think playing on the Web.com was definitely a great buffer to come into the start of the season here, especially with these couple of tournaments kind of close to Mississippi State and home.   
   
 Q.   Have you been able to follow football much this year?   Obviously No.1, got the leading Heisman candidate, plans of watching it this weekend?  
CARLOS SAINZ:   Yeah, absolutely.   I was there last week at the game, and it was so fun to be out there.   The school has really changed I feel like since I went there.   I mean, it's just grown so much, and the people around there are just so pumped up for the football team.   It's just been a great experience so far this year.   Seeing your alma mater just No.1 in football, I don't know if anyone really saw that coming.   But what a great year so far.   I'm really looking forward to the last couple games and homecoming this week and Alabama the week after that.   I'm pretty sure everyone is counting the games and counting the days on the calendar to hopefully see how long it lasts.   
MARK STEVENS:   Thanks for your time.   Best of luck this week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT