WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL D: SAN JUAN
March 9, 2009
Nelson Cruz
Jose Reyes
Fernando Tatis
Miguel Tejada
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOSE REYES: We are a better team than they are. But honestly for them yesterday they were better. We were focused, but we can't make it. Yesterday was yesterday. We have to win today or go home. 

We have to win today. We still have two days left. The defeat did not surprise us because in baseball anything can happen. 
 At this time there is no pressure. We are a better team. We do not play yesterday the way that we should have, but that is the past, we have to go out into the field and play ball. Give a hundred percent. 
 Today I'm going to start a play from the first inning. I'm healthy and I'm going to work to bring that victory and represent my country with dignity. 
 Regarding Pedro Martinez's performance, Pedro was great yesterday, he throws strikes like he always does. He is a good guy that brings a good attitude to the team. 
 It is unfortunate, because Alex Rodriguez is one of the best ball players of the Dominican Republic and of the big leagues. But at this time the team is focused only on winning the games we have left. 

 NELSON CRUZ: The team is very positive and the mind is in winning the game today. I feel fine physically and ready to give my best today. 
 I feel fine physically and with the opportunity of making the big team and playing every day.

 FERNANDO TATIS: We have to forget about the first defeat. That defeat has motivated us. We come here today with other mentalities and more in sync.

 MIGUEL TEJEDA: We come very motivated today. For me it is a pride to represent Dominican Republic, not only in this game, but always. I only ask for health to be able to keep on enjoying the game and events like this World Classic. 
 I have been training hard for this event and because it is my last, it is the last of my contract, and I have to take care of my body. 
 Everybody knows the team that we have and in spite of the defeat we are focused. 
 I am playing a position where I am needed at this time but my position is shortstop. I want to take advantage to send regards to my people in Puerto Rico and thank them for the good treatment and respect that they have always had towards my person.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT