CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 24, 2019
Lizette Salas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Congratulations. Great round today.
LIZETTE SALAS: Thank you.
Q. Talking about how your morning routine was different today. Maybe that led to the bogey on the third hole. What happened? Birdie, bogey, and then you took off.
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah, no, I started off good. Range session was fine. I just knew that round was out there today. I don't know. I just got in the zone probably after the 6th hole and I was it hitting great shots and hitting good putts. Just really got dialed in on the back nine.
Q. How often does that happen in a round like that? Or actually do you know you're in the zone or are you just in it?
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah, I'm still just trying to run off the British Open momentum. I got a new putter in the bag. Just minor tweaks here and there. I feel like my game has been coming along for a while now.
Just trying to catch up to those leaders.
Q. So you're minus 11 after three rounds. The leaders are starting to make a little bit more of a charge. What is your mindset for the final round?
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah, just try to throw some darts and make couple putts. Obviously trying to stay out of the long grass.
I'm feeling really comfortable with the driver right now. Just trying to give myself as many opportunities for birdie as I can and try to really take advantage of them.
Q. The greens on this course seem to be fairly big. Bigger than the ones you normally play on LPGA events or roughly the same?
LIZETTE SALAS: I would say they're a little bigger. Definitely much undulated, much more slope, but I like it. It makes me get dialed in more.
Q. Today were you more hitting it closer to the pin today or was the putter just...
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah, pretty much hitting darts on the back nine and just really making the putts. Anything inside 15 feet really gave it a good run at it.
Just really stayed out of trouble off the tee.
Q. Could you describe how you're feeling on the golf course and how confident you are?
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah, I feel really good. I think I'm just trying to get off to a solid start and just -- I don't know why the first round not really -- something was going on the first round which I don't understand why.
But I'm really dialed in this second, third, and hopefully final rounds. I guess with that confidence I'm just able to shoot the low scores that I am. I don't know. I'm just really having fun and confident. Even though I started off 1-over I knew I had the capability of going deep.
Q. How much are you paying attention to the last qualifying spots for Solheim Cup this week?
LIZETTE SALAS: Well, everyone keeps asking me and I have no idea. Like I have an idea -- probably my two picks -- but I'm not the captain or assistant captains. It's tough.
I don't think the captains have ever been in a position like this before. You don't want to hurt anyone's feelings, but at the end of the day you have to do what's best for the team.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT