AIG WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 4, 2019
Lizette Salas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What do you make of the week?  
LIZETTE SALAS: I take away a lot of positives.  We had a game plan at the beginning of the week and we stuck with it.  We fought, every single day, and to play alongside the No. 1 player in the world and to play the way I did, I'm really happy.   
Obviously I could have finished a little better, and it stings a little bit.  But I've just been working so hard this entire year.  I'm so proud of my team.  Patrick has done a phenomenal job, and you know, this is all great momentum going into Solheim, and this is great for my confidence.  I just turned 30 a couple weeks ago and I just feel like I'm kind of reborn, and I'm just happy to be in this position.   
 Q.  Can you walk us through the final putt?  
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah, I told myself, "You got this.  You're made for this."  I put a good stroke on it.  I'm not going to lie; I was nervous.  You know, I haven't been in that position in a long time.  Gave it a good stroke.  I controlled all my thoughts.  It just didn't drop.  So congrats to our winner.   
 Q.  Walk me through your round in general.  You were the hottest golfer on the course today.  
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah, I knew I had to start off hot, you know, being five shots back.  I felt good on the range.  I was feeling really confident, and I feel like 7-iron was the club all day.  It's one of my favourite clubs, and we kind of mastered different shots with it.  So we were able to utilise that today.   
I hit it so good off the tee, which I kind of struggled the first three days.  I just kept holing them in and just kept visualising.  I felt like I had a lot of left-to-right putts today, so coming down the stretch, having those in, I was super confident.  I feel like my range is outside ten feet.  I was on a roll, and we kept seeing the same thing.  Patrick and I kept reading them correctly and they were dropping.  You know, playing alongside our No. 1 player in the world, I knew I had to come up with something, and something awesome.   
To pull off a 65 on a Sunday at a major like this, it's pretty quite awesome.  Pretty proud of myself.   
 Q.  I know it stings a little bit right now, but what does this do for your game moving forward and for your confidence moving forward?  
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah, it's super great for my game right now, and knowing that I have what it takes to contend in a major and to win.  You know, we'll just have toing back to the drawing board.  I'm not going to dwell on it now.  I'm not going to dissect my whole game just at this moment.  I'll have a sitdown and kind of figure out what I could have done better.  Obviously you can't control what other players do.  I gave it my all and you know, to still come up short, it sucks, but we'll be back.   
 Q.  And you have some fun plans coming up this week?  
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah, my 30th birthday party.  It's an 80s theme birthday.  Would have been extra special if we had that trophy there.  But knowing my family was pulling for me today -- (crying) -- I hope they are still proud.  I could feel them, and it's been one of those years, and to finally keep knocking on the door, keep knocking on the door, but it's fine.  Like I'll be back and you know, that tournament at Indy last year, that one really, really hurt.  This one doesn't hurt that bad, but I feel like it was mine and I just gave it my best today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT