HUGEL-AIR PREMIA LA OPEN
April 25, 2019
Lizette Salas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. All right.  Nice round out there to start things off here in L.A.  How were you feeling out there on the course?
LIZETTE SALAS: Much better than yesterday.  We had quite a long session on the range trying to figure things out.  You know, pretty steady round all day.  Just kept patient and just kind of enjoying the day, taking everything in.
Been hitting it really solid the last few weeks, so just trying to keep that momentum going.  These poana greens you just never know what kid of?  Bounce you're going to get, so I was pretty fortunate today.
Q. Out there a lot of times the weather is a big factor in someone's game.  It's almost perfect weather conditions.  How did that affect you today?
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah, I mean, just to be out here in L.A. I think puts a smile on my face.  Conditions are pretty good.  I mean, not pretty good.  It's L.A. and how -- hot is it?  Like 72.  So perfect conditions.
I like it when it's breezy.  Kind of separates the field a little bit.  Yeah, no, I'm pretty happy where my game is, and just have to rest up and get ready for tomorrow.
Q. First round how exciting was it to have some of your family and friends out here watching you?
LIZETTE SALAS: It's always nice for them to come.  Having my dad watch my warming up on the range, it just reminds me when I was little.  I have their support and they're going to love me whether I shot not so great or really great.
So it's nice to see a lot of USC shirts, too.  Just happy to be home.
Q. A lot of reaction from your DriveOn announcement the other day.
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah.
Q. What are some of the things that maybe friends, family have been able to say to you?  What have you seen thus far?
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah, I mean, I've been getting a lot of the positive feedback, which is really heartwarming, and I'm so grateful to have really awesome fans and new fans based on DriveOn.
I think as the year goes on and we hear more of the DriveOn stories I think we're just going to create a bigger fan base.  And not just in golf, but in sports in general.
It's kind of scary being vulnerable and sharing that side of your story to everyone.  I've been getting some really good feedback, and it just reassures me that I'm here to stay and I was meant to do this.
Q. And focusing one more time right back on golf, what's the mindset going into the next couple rounds?
LIZETTE SALAS: Just keep it steady, keep it going, keep hitting good shots.  Just visualize; stay patient.  There is so much going on, but at the end of the day you got to have fun.  Just trying to build up as much confidence for the weekend, and what better way to win in front of your home crowd.
So that's the goal, but baby steps.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT