ANA INSPIRATION
April 4, 2019
Lizette Salas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Lizette, ending the day at 2-Under.  How were you feeling out there on the first round?
LIZETTE SALAS: Felt good.  For the last like three weeks been striking the ball as well as I have been in a very long time.  Just a matter of making putts.  Just came in with a more positive attitude.
Missed the cut last week at one my favorite events.  Knocked me down a little bit but I'm back up.  Drove the ball pretty well.  Had some hiccups out there, but it's a major championship.  Going to expect some tough shots.
I putted well.  Just kept my demeanor pretty solid all day.  Stayed positive.  Played smart most importantly.
Q. This is a different course than last year.  They lengthened some of the fairways and done some things with the greens.  How were you out there adjusting?  What was it like?
LIZETTE SALAS: I've gained some distance off the tee, so my strong game is hitting the fairway and staying out of trouble.  Even when I'm in trouble, just laying up to a good number and relying on my short game to get up and down.
Just made some really -- I have a 5-hybrid in the bag that's been solid, and hopefully don't jinx it, but I've hit it quite often today.  These fast greens you need to stop it.  Yeah, I've been playing really smart and just playing in the moment, not freaking out when I make bogey or when I hit it in the water on 18.  Just got to play smart and know there's a lot of the golf left.
Q. What is there to improve over the next couple days?
LIZETTE SALAS: You know, short game.  I think when it comes down, you know coming down the stretch, a lot is on the line and you have to rely on the short game.  You might be in some funky lies in the rough, so you've got to be prepared for that.  Inside ten feet is always a good thing to practice on.  Also just visualizing like where you want your shots to land.
Could get windy out here, and you need to be very specific.  That's what I need to work on.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT