AIG WOMEN'S OPEN
August 19, 2020
Lizette Salas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







THE MODERATOR:   Where he will come to Lizette Salas to the 2020 AIG Women's Open.  When did you arrive?
LIZETTE SALAS:   We arrived Sunday evening, and so just really excited to come to a new location, I've never been to Royal Troon and heard such great things.  Played 18 holes yesterday and fell in love with the venue.  So feeling really positive vibes and really excited to get the week started.
THE MODERATOR:   So you played the Ladies Scottish Open last week?
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah.
THE MODERATOR:   And how was that?  It was quite tough conditions.
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah, tough to say the least.  I'd like to scratch out some memories from last week and we definitely see some rust.  But we -- "we" as in my caddie and myself -- just kind of clicked on something on Sunday, and we're back to hitting fairways.  We're back to seeing the Lizette Salas shot shape, and we're really feeling like we're in an upward trend.  It's a whole new week, major, first major of the year.
So we are trying to be as confident as possible and positive.  It was a good test last week, mentally, physically, anything you can think of, and I think that's what links golf is about, and so this week is going to be really exciting.
THE MODERATOR:   And after such a long break of competitive play, you've played the last three events.  So you're very happy with the upward trend in your game?
LIZETTE  SALAS:   Well, I live in southern California, so conditions there are a little rough, but I made things as ready as I could.
But I was excited to be back out on the road.  Definitely seeing some positive things, some things I need to work on.  But to be back here competing is such a blessing and just keeping everyone safe and healthy is the No. 1 priority.  So just being back in competitive mode, I'm fooling more like myself.
THE MODERATOR:   Also at the AIG Women's Open, you've had a great record.  You finished sixth at St Andrews.  Last year you finished second.  What is it about the tournament?  You obviously travel well, as well.
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah, there's something about links golf that I absolutely love.  I think the tougher the golf course is, I tend to focus a little more.  I tend to rely on my consistency in fairways hit.  You know, minimising mistakes.  I'm really trying to rely on that part of my game a lot.
Obviously short game is something that I believe that I am strong in.  You know, last year was a great event for me confidence-wise, game-wise, and so I'm just trying to think back at all the great memories that I've had on links golf.
And first time in Europe, at St Andrews was a great treat.  I had never been to Europe before.  Finished sixth.  Qualified for my first Solheim Cup.  Last year played at Gleneagles.  So Scotland and I have a really good relationship so far and with this event, so I'm really excited that AIG brought us back.
THE MODERATOR:   Is Scotland your favourite place to travel to?
LIZETTE  SALAS:   Yeah, definitely so.
THE MODERATOR:   Very fortunate although obviously the ending at Gleneagles, not so much.
LIZETTE SALAS:   Well, we won't talk about that again.
THE MODERATOR:   Shouldn't we?
LIZETTE SALAS:   Go ahead.  I mean -- but my match against Anne Van Dam last year was quite epic, and to be 2-down early in the match and to come out with a victory personally, it was great.  Obviously it was great for women's golf and great for Suzann to go out with a bang.
Q. Do you feel that you still have unfinished business with the AIG Women's Open after last year?
LIZETTE SALAS:   I feel like I have a lot of great golf left to play.  You know, it was a great event for me last year.  I have zero regrets.  I gave it every inch of me that I could.  I did the best that I believe I did.  I was really proud of myself and my team.
As far as the unfinished business, it's a whole new event, whole different situation, whole different golf course.  So the win is definitely a goal, but there are certain steps I need to take in order to get there, and I do I believe I have the mind-set to do it.  So it's going to be -- with the weather coming in, it's going to be a really good test.
Q. How does it feel to be an American from sunny southern California in Troon in the bubble at these very bizarre times that we are living in?  Can you just describe that?
LIZETTE  SALAS:   Well, it's definitely not what it used to be.  Things in sunny southern California aren't great.  We are in a bubble there.  Staying indoors as much as possible, so not very different.  But to be playing in a prestigious golf course like Royal Troon is a treat, and I'm just happy to be out here.
I am colder than normal.  I usually don't wear long trousers, but that's what the weather I guess applies for.  So I'm just really excited to be out here.
THE MODERATOR:   Even with no fans, everyone says the atmosphere feels so major with the setup.  Can you talk about that?
LIZETTE SALAS:   Oh, definitely.  That's something that's been on our minds since the announcement that there were going to be no fans allowed.  We still feel the atmosphere of a major championship.  Obviously with the boards and just knowing that it is the Women's Open.  I think with the name itself and Royal Troon, brings that major aspect to it.
So we're treating it as a major championship, and we're just going to clap for ourselves whenever we have really good shots.  We're going to just keep a positive mind-set.
THE MODERATOR:   Is this your first time to Troon?
LIZETTE SALAS:   Never played Troon.
THE MODERATOR:   Did you watch it when Henrik played?
LIZETTE SALAS:   When was that?
THE MODERATOR:   2017.
LIZETTE SALAS:   I believe I did.  Obviously it's a little different when there's no spectators.  But it's made for really special moments in golf, so I'm hoping to be a part of that at the end of the week.
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you so much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT