LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 13, 2018
Lizette Salas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So you're glad it's over.  But it was a good round, a 2-under round.
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah.  With no driver.
Q. I heard.
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah.  Oh, God.  It's Friday the 13th for some reason, huh?
It was interesting.  I had to keep it together.  It was only after my 2nd hole, and, you know, luckily the winds changed a little bit so, I mean, it made the tee shots easy to pick which club to hit.
Q. There you go.
LIZETTE SALAS: Second time it's happened to me.  Just got to learn; got to keep your emotions in check; hopefully it doesn't happen again.
Q. What happened to it?
LIZETTE SALAS: Well, I got a little frustrated for missing a short putt, and then I tossed, quote/unquote, tossed my putter at my bag, and I guess the head landed on the shaft and I when I took it out at the next hole, it went (bending noise).
Q. Oops.
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah, big oops.  So we'll make some phone calls and see if we can get that fixed by tomorrow.  I played pretty decent with no driver today.
Q. I was going to say, that says a lot for you mentally, that you could pull together after that.
LIZETTE SALAS: Well, yeah.  I was telling my caddie, I said, Kind of reminds me of my old numbers off the tee.  Because I gained some distance from last year.  I was like, Ah, just like last year, just with no driver.  Same numbers.
But, yeah, it was a challenge.  We just glad we got through it.
Q. Mostly 3-wood on those driving holes?
LIZETTE SALAS: Oh, yeah.  Yeah, no other option.  I think on 5 I hit 3-wood, 3-wood, 8-iron into that par-5.  Into the wind it's a completely different hole.
But, you know, we got it under par, and I think we could have gone even lower.  But, you know.
Q. Force you to be a little bit more creative and imaginative out there?
LIZETTE SALAS: Well, I definitely -- we really -- well, you have to be more aggressive.  I think it really helped me just stay committed to my shot.  Now I know I can hit a 3-wood 220, 230.
So a it's a good learning experience.  Just hope it doesn't happen to anyone else.  I had a little freak-out out there.
Q. Take you a minute to gather together?
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah.  I had to group -- get it together on 3, and luckily it was downwind so 3-wood was the club anyway.
I just started thinking ahead, like, Oh, my God, what holes are going to be tough.  I had to scratch it and focus on the shot ahead.
Actually birdied 3 and hit some really solid shots, so I'm happy with my 2-under par with no driver.
Q. In a way have to be more focused.
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah, definitely.  Yeah, to take advantage of the downhill-downwind holes and play smart on the into-the-wind holes.
So definitely a learning experience.
Q. Here with Lizette Salas, who now finds herself very much in the mix, four shots back, with the mistakes that Brooke Henderson has made.  Obviously you didn't know that until you came up here.
Q. How much energy does that give you in away to go out there and do it tomorrow?  You were only five back when you got into that playoff with Suzann Petersen.
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah, I mean, anything can happen here.  Just with one mistake just brings in a lot more players.  Kind of gets us more encouraged to make a move tomorrow.
You know, I didn't know I was that into it until now.  Just got to put the wheels back on and give it a go, and hopefully just make it a little more challenging.
Q. For any young people watching, we don't endorse this sort of behavior at all, but I need to ask you, how did the driver break?
LIZETTE SALAS: Lesson learned.  Kids, do not throw your club at your bag.  You just don't know how it's going to land.   I tossed my putter at my bag and it landed on my driver shaft on the 2nd hole; 3rd hole took out in I driver and just went, (bending noise.)
Q. With that in mind, how happy are you with the round today, because you didn't have the driver most of the day?
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah, well it made things easier to chose clubs off the tee for sure.  Luckily the wind was a little different and had some easier driveable holes with 3-wood.
Just made it a little more challenging but made it fun.  I had to be aggressive off the tee, which was something I learned today.  You know, lesson learned.  That was my Friday the 13th little punishment.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT