KIA CLASSIC
March 24, 2018
Lizette Salas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Mixed bag.  You had it going early and then let it go a little bit late.
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah, I mean, that's poana for you.  I will admit there were a little nerves in there.  It's been a while since I've been in this position.
But I was having fun out there just kind of taking what I could get.  Mix of luck and momentum going.  You know, a lot of could haves, but I'm not going to dwell on that.  Just going to be fortunate to be in this position again and just give it my all tomorrow.
Q. Was the putt at 16 a little bit in your head with the putt at 17?
LIZETTE SALAS: You know, maybe.  I was a little more aggressive on the putt on 17, which I missed on the high side, but just try to give it a good stroke.  I knew 18 is a tough finishing hole, so I really had to have some short-term memory and just forget about it.
Q. Let out a little sigh of relief.
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah, on 18.  And just after Cristie missing hers and knowing how these greens are getting at the end of the day, I'm just glad it went in.
Q. Do they look a lot different?  You guys play so late as the leaders.
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah, you know, they hold up pretty well.  I think I just got to give to a confident stroke and hope it gets a couple bounces.
It's all about luck mostly with these greens.
Q. Did you play much poana growing up?
LIZETTE SALAS: No, but I do practice at PV, Palos Verdes, and that's poana.  There is just something about these greens that are pretty fair to me.  Just got to stay patient.
Q. Was Azusa poana?
LIZETTE SALAS: No, it's bent.
Q. Okay.
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah.
Q. That didn't help you.
LIZETTE SALAS: No, clearly not.
Q. How many people do you know here?
LIZETTE SALAS: I mean, I'm going to say at least 25, 30 people.
Q. Wow.
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah.  So I got my godsons out and my niece and nephews.  It was a great day for some family golf.  I'm just glad I was able to perform well for them.
Let's just see what happens tomorrow.
Q. You've played well here.  Do you feel like it boosts you?
LIZETTE SALAS: Do I feel like it what?
Q. Boosts you.
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah, definitely.  I've had some good history here, but at the same time this is a whole new year, whole new scenario.
I've been working extremely hard during the off-season.  I have the best team I could ask for.  I just have to play as confident as I can.  I'm striking it well.  Just got to minimize my mistakes.
Q. As well as you did in that stretch of four top fives in five tournaments last year, was it motivating for you to work even harder in the off-season because you were so close?
LIZETTE SALAS: Oh, yeah.  Yeah definitely.  End of last year was probably the best I played in a very long time.  Kind of just lit a spark in me.  I went straight to work after CME and made some changes with my team.
It all worked out for the best.  I'm seeing the results, which is really -- I'm really fortunate about.  Just got to keep going.
Q. You feel like the game is ready now for a final round?
LIZETTE SALAS: Yes.  I'm ready, and I've been saying I'm close, I'm close.  I know I have it in me.  I know my team knows I have it in me.  My family is right behind me.
I'm just going to run off their momentum and the confidence I've had for the past six months.  So we'll just see what happens tomorrow.
Q. What do you do tonight with this big group of family?
LIZETTE SALAS: I'm not quite sure.  I think they're all going to drive back tonight and come back tomorrow.  We'll just hang.  Not do anything crazy, huh?  No.  He's like, What?  I don't know.  (Laughter.)
Just keep the same routine.  Probably get some physio later and just chitchat with my family.  Just keep it low key.  Got a big day ahead of us tomorrow and just glad to be in this position.
Q. Are you expecting more tomorrow?  Will there be anymore tomorrow?
LIZETTE SALAS: I'm not sure.  I hope so.  I mean, the more the merrier.  I know this kid is going to be out and my other godson, my niece and nephews, and that's all that matters to me.
Q. You still work with Joe, right?
LIZETTE SALAS: Joe and Jim Gormley, uh-huh.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT