BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 15, 2018
Lizette Salas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Okay.  4-under in kind of difficult conditions with the wind and the coolness today.  Are you happy with your round?
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah, I am.  I'm very pleased.  You know, I had 4-under going into my 9th hole, and just one bad swing, bad luck, ended up making double.
Good thing about this course is every hole is pretty much a birdie hole.  Conditions aren't the same as they have been, but I really like when I it gets windy and challenging.
I play simple golf and I've been striking it well and putting, so I've been feeling really confident lately.
Q. You've had a couple good finishes to start your year.  What are you so confident with in your game now?
LIZETTE SALAS: I mean, I just feel comfortable with my game right now.  I worked really hard in the off-season.  I'm playing much better than I have been compared to last year.
I think I'm just happier and just excited to be playing again.
Q. How was to playing with your friend, Angel, out there?
LIZETTE SALAS: It's always fun.  You know, you just never know what's going to come out of her mouth.
It's even more -- what's the word I'm looking for?  -- I guess more fun when you're playing with your friend and you guys are playing well.
So, yeah, it was a good day.
Q. You spoke about the 9th hole.  That was your only blemish of the day.  What happened in detail?
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah.  Well, I hit this funky drive and I got like -- had an awkward stance, and then like it was in a little -- its own dimple, and I just chunked it out.
Had mud on it so it went in the bunker, and then tried to get up and down and didn't go in.
You know, that's golf.  Try to shake it off and get back to the basics.
Q. You normally a good wind player?
LIZETTE SALAS: I would like to think so.  (Laughter.)  I mean, I love playing at the British Open.  I mean, my strong suit is hitting fairways, and controlling my ball flight I think I've gotten really better at it.
So we'll see what happens.  I think my game is strong enough for any conditions, so we'll see.
Q. Well that was a great start.
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah, yeah, thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT