REIGNWOOD LPGA CLASSIC
September 29, 2016
Lizette Salas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Terrific round.  Got your mojo back.  
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah, it's been a while since I've had it, but to finally finish on a solid note with 6 birdies, I'm very proud of myself.  Even after the bogey on 16 I fought back with two back-to-back birdies.   
Just pretty proud of myself.  I didn't panic.  This year I've been learning a lot, and finally to put it all together, I was really pleased with it.   
 Q.  Must be frustrating at time when you know you have the game, you're five years on the tour, you know what you can produce, sometimes forcing it to happen.  
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah, exactly.  This game is more mental.  I tend to beat myself up.  Just like a lot of these players, we put a lot of pressure on ourselves.   
These next three weeks I am just going to take things lightly and have a lot of fun.  My dad is out here supporting me, so that's a good change.  Just glad to be out here playing a sport I love.   
 Q.  Wonderful start as well on your front nine.  Reeled off a number of birdies.  
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah, just kind of -- I don't know.  Just attacked the finish pin.  I just kept going with it.  I made a recent putter switch.  I've been switching putters like crazy this year.   
It just felt right.  Used it in the Pro-Am and it's been working well, so hopefully it'll give my more birdies in the next three days.   
 Q.  Any tips from dad this afternoon?  
LIZETTE SALAS: Just let it go.  I think I've been playing defensive these past couple months.  Just try to stay aggressive.  He knows me like the back of his hand, so just been giving me short tips.  He doesn't say much, but when he does speak it's pretty important.   
You know, just to have fun and know that you can play some good golf.   
 Q.  Do you know how many times you switched putters this year?  
LIZETTE SALAS: Oh, my God.   
 Q.  Have you kept count?  
LIZETTE SALAS: Too many.  I wouldn't be surprised if it were ten times.  I kind of like do a rotation.  Just one of those things where one putter will do the trick one week and another putter will do it the next week.   
I'm a feel type of person, and just depends on the greens we're playing in.  These are fairly quick so I like to use the Cure putter.  I used it at the Open.  I don't know really the science behind why I switch so much or the reasons why.   
I've been trying to find a solid putter that I can use, so hopefully it's this one.   
 Q.  So you're kind of looking at this Asian swing as a clean slate basically?  
LIZETTE SALAS: Yes.  This is a practice for next year.  Like just working on things that will help me get better for next season.  You know, trying different shots.  Being aggressive.   
There is no cut here, so you just got to go in full force and see what happens.  Doesn't work one day, try something else the next day.   
Just try and have fun.  My dad is out here and I don't want him to be suffering with me.  I think it's going to be a lot of fun.   
 Q.  Kind of frees you up because you don't have to worry making it to...  
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah, no, I'm not even thinking of result.  I am just thinking of what's ahead of me, what I can control, and visualize the shot and just do it.   
I don't think it's that hard, but I've been making pretty hard this year.  You know, kind of line things up.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT