SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
May 28, 2014
Lizette Salas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Lizette Salas to the media room.   Lizette, obviously great week at Kingsmill.   What are your thoughts heading into this week and what was that like?   How did you spend your off week? 
LIZETTE SALAS:   Well, I went straight home to see my family and just kind of worked out great.   Kind of recharged the batteries, saw my swing coach for a couple of days and just really hung out with family and really thanked them in person, everyone that supported me throughout the years, just had my junior golf clinic on Tuesday.   It was a really low‑key week.   But now it's back to work, and I feel great.   So I'm really glad I took that week off to recharge my batteries, and now I'm out here this week.

Q.   Your parents I know were not there the last time you won.   Are they here this week and kind of what were their thoughts not getting to be there?
LIZETTE SALAS:   No, unfortunately they're not here this week.   We're trying things‑‑

Q.   Was it a good omen?
LIZETTE SALAS:   I don't know, we're just trying things differently.   Yeah, they're a little bummed that they could not witness my first win in person, but you know, it just turned out that way.   But they're still very happy for me.   Now hopefully they get to experience a win with me there, and yeah, but we're just trying things differently.

Q.   First‑time win, does it feel different out here?   Do the goals change, confidence change at all?
LIZETTE SALAS:   Well, definitely confidence does change after you get your first win.   I was very happy, and to see the results finally be where I wanted them to be, but the goals are still the same.   I think everything has to be simple, especially for me, just hitting fairways and greens and hitting your spots on the greens.   But yeah, I'm definitely walking a little more with my head held up high a little bit, and yeah, just feeling confident.   But I know every week is not going to be the same, and you just have to go about it in the same routine, same mentality. 

Q.   Michelle was in here earlier and talked about how this course maybe was a good prelude to the U.S. Women's Open because it was a Donald Ross course.   Do you see that out there, the crowned greens that Ross is famous for?
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah, definitely.   You see a lot of the false fronts, you see a lot of areas where the ball tends to run out a little bit more.   I definitely see that it's a good prep for the U.S. Open, so I'll see next week.   That's where I'm headed, to Pinehurst, to go do some prep work, and I'm excited just to be back at work. 

Q.   A lot has been made in the past where have the Americans been.   Now the Americans have won a lot.   Are you glad you don't have to hear any more questions about where are the Americans, and what has been the resurgence, the reason why you think there's been a resurgence this year on Tour?
LIZETTE SALAS:   I mean, it's been great to see the Americans step up and play great golf.   I think the last six events, five of them have been American winners, and that just gives us such a confidence boost going into the Solheim Cup for next year and even International Crown.   So we're just‑‑ I think we're just all playing our own game.   We're not thinking about beating every other country.   I think we're just playing USA kind of golf, and it's great to see Michelle and Jessica win and Paula.   This is looking great for the U.S., and I'm just glad to be a part of it.

Q.   Can you guys kind of feed off each other's success a little bit?   You see one person do it‑‑
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah.

Q.   You can do it too type of thing?
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah, definitely, especially being Solheim Cup teammates and being around each other and practicing together, so we do kind of all feed off of each other.   It's a good thing for the U.S. to finally break through and seeing a lot of American flags on the leaderboard. 

Q.   What was it like the final nine holes on Sunday, your mindset, your nerves, and what had you learned from your close calls that you put into effect to get you over the hump? 
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah, I think the last nine holes‑‑ I got a little anxious a little bit because I wanted to increase my lead and increase the gap, but my caddie did a great job of reminding me to just lets hit the fairway, let's hit the green and let's just make it simple.   I think coming down 16, 17 and 18 I was finally relaxed, and when I hit that fairway on 18, I was like, okay, this is it, and let's just try to enjoy the walk up 18.   But I felt good to start off the day.   I felt confident.   Leading up to it I felt like those experiences, those close calls really helped me be ready for Sunday and to be in that position that I was in.   I felt extremely confident, and I wanted to win by 10.   I was out there for a goal, and I was very blessed to come out with that win. 

Q.   And also, your dad has been with you through some pretty tough times on the bag.   What was it like to talk to him for the first time after you won? 
LIZETTE SALAS:   Well, I was trying to get a hold of them.   I had some bad reception out at Kingsmill, but he was very happy.   He picked me up from the airport, and it was a very emotional time.   We hugged it out, and I got a little emotional just because my dad has been through it with me every step of the way, and for him to see me get that first win was very, very special. 

Q.   You mentioned Michelle before.   When Michelle is playing well, does that kind of give a boost to the whole Tour because she's a player of such high notoriety? 
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah, definitely.   She's probably one of the hardest working players out here, and to see her get the results that she has been getting this year, we're all very happy for her, and it's great for our Tour.   She's been out here for quite some time, and she's put in the work.   And to see her success really helps the Tour a lot. 

Q.   What are your thoughts on the concept of back‑to‑back Opens at Pinehurst, and have you been to Pinehurst before?
LIZETTE SALAS:   No, I have not. 

Q.   What are you expecting? 
LIZETTE SALAS:   Well, it could either be really good or it could be really bad.   We're just hoping for the best, and obviously we have our own thoughts as to landing areas and collection areas.   They're going to be the same for the women and the men, so we do have our concerns.   But we're just hoping for the best, and one of the USGA officials said, divots are a part of the game, and so we'll see.   Hopefully next week I can practice out of some divots because pretty sure that's what's going to happen at the U.S. Open. 
We can get some awesome weather, we can get some awful weather.   It's just kind of hit or miss. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT