KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 17, 2014
Lizette Salas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Lizette Salas into the interview room here at Kingsmill.   You have the low round of day, 65.   You just missed adding to it on 18.
How good were you feeling out there?
LIZETTE SALAS:   I felt really good.   Like my mentality.   Yes, I was quite nervous coming down the stretch Hee Young was knocking it close to the pin.   But I felt good.   I felt relaxed most importantly.   I was just trying to smile as much as possible. 
I took a different approach this week.   I only played the pro‑am.   I've seen the course several times.   It's my third year here.   I didn't want to think too much about the golf course and just hit my targets.
Last week I had a good practice session at home, so I was feeling good coming in. 
MODERATOR:   The fact that you didn't play practice rounds, do you think that made you feel more relaxed today? 
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah, it just made me, I don't know, more target oriented.   I just felt like I related to my target more.   I felt more comfortable over the ball, especially on the putting green.   I just feel like I've been visualizing a lot better and really staying patient coming down the stretch. 
MODERATOR:   This morning, how many holes did you have to finish? 
LIZETTE SALAS:   Seven.
MODERATOR:   You did?
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah. 
MODERATOR:   And was it your first hole that you came and bogeyed? 
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah.
MODERATOR:   And then no more bogeys for the rest of the day? 
LIZETTE SALAS:   No.   Yeah, I was pretty upset about that one.   I don't not like not bogeying par‑5s, and especially a three‑putt. 
So that gave me a little bit extra motivation, and birdied my last hole of the second round.
MODERATOR:   What's the approach heading into tomorrow?   You've been in contention a couple times this year at PureSilk and Kia.
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah. 
MODERATOR:   What do you focus on tonight for tomorrow? 
LIZETTE SALAS:   I have no idea.   Just probably go have dinner with some friends tonight and have a good night's sleep and take it easy tomorrow and do the same warmup I've been doing the last couple days.   Nothing dramatic.
I did bring out an old putting tool my dad made for me my rookie year.   I brought that out this week, so hopefully I'll bring it out tomorrow.
MODERATOR:   What's the putting tool? 
LIZETTE SALAS:   It's a little hard to describe.   You have to check it out on the putting green.   Just visualizing my line and staying low through the stroke. 
MODERATOR:   Okay.   Questions. 

Q.   Do you remember your turn here on Sunday last year?
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yes.

Q.   The three holes?
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yes, I do remember.

Q.   How much does that concern you?
LIZETTE SALAS:   Nothing.   That happened last year, and I think I have a stronger mentality this year. 
You know, comments that are shouted won't affect me this year.   I'm just more happy and excited to play golf.   My kind of golf, and not anyone else's. 

Q.   How much time did you have between rounds and how did you kill it? 
LIZETTE SALAS:   Let's see, I had about two and a half, three hours to kill.   I went in to the physio trainer, got some work done on my lower back, took like a 10‑minute nap, and just started my whole routine again.
Had lunch and went to go re‑ stretch and then started my whole routine over again.   Didn't hit a lot of balls on the range today.   Just did a couple drills.   I just knew it was going to be a long day, so I didn't want to overdo it on the range today.

Q.   Are you able to power nap like that?   If I sleep for 10 minutes, I'm done. 
LIZETTE SALAS:   I did power nap quite a bit in college, so I just triggered that in the back of my mind again and it came back, so...

Q.   Do you get any more charged up when you're playing in a group with Stacy Lewis sort of being the top American player?
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah, it's such an honor to play with Stacy.   We were teammates.   We played alternate shot together, so I know the kind of golf she can play.
To play alongside her and get compliments from her at the end of the round is a great feeling and obviously a great confidence booster.   To play alongside her and Hee Young today, it was a really good pairing. 

Q.   Lizette, could you go through the card a little bit, especially the birdie holes?   You had six.   Were any of them bombs or were they relatively short?
LIZETTE SALAS:   Let's see, 2 and 3 were inside six feet.   I can't remember the holes. 
6 was a good putt; 6 was over 20 feet.   That was a big confidence booster. 
8 was a great up‑and‑down. 
9, man, I wish I had that putt all over again.
Then 10, that's a tough hole.   Par is obviously a good score on that hole. 
14 was a putt that I knew was going to go in.   I read it correctly.   It was about 15 to 20 feet.   That was probably the purest stroke of the day. 
15, four‑footer, left to right.   Those obviously I tend to get a little hesitant and lift my head.   That one I stayed down through the ball. 
16 was a great up‑and‑down for me when I was in the bunker.
17, everyone stuck it really close.   Hee Young had about three feet and I had about six feet.   I really had to stay confident and stay true to my line; it went in.
18 almost went in.   Again, it's a tough hole, and par is a great score. 

Q.   How long was that putt?
LIZETTE SALAS:   That was 25‑, 30‑footer.   It was a big one. 
MODERATOR:   Any more questions?   All right, we'll send you home.   Thank you. 
LIZETTE SALAS:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT