KIA CLASSIC
March 30, 2014
Lizette Salas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What about doing it here?  
LIZETTE SALAS:   It feels good to have that finish after nine straight pars.   I mean, all pars in the front.   Just not getting it close and not striking the ball as well as the first three days.  
But my caddie did a great job of helping me stay patient and stay in the moment.   All we kept saying was, Fairways and greens.  
I hit the ball great off the tee today.   The putts just wouldn't roll in.   So just focus on hitting my spots on the green.   I told him on 14, I said, This putt's going in.   That's when I drained that big slider.  
So that's a big confidence booster for me.   To finish the way I did today is definitely a big confidence booster.  
   
 Q.   Can you forget about not winning the tournament as well as you played?  
LIZETTE SALAS:   Oh, yeah.   Obviously I can't control what Anna does.   She's been playing awesome this year and already had a win, so congrats to her.  
All I got to work on is my mentality and my, I don't know, just the way I play the game.   I took 3‑wood on 16 and look what happened?   I went over.  
That's just golf.   Sometimes things go your way and sometimes they don't.   Luckily I finished with a birdie on a good note, and off to the Kraft.  
   
 Q.   Did you have aggressive lines on the front nine as far as your approach shots?   Did you feel like you were being aggressive?   Like you said, you didn't get a lot of shots close to the hole on the front but played incredibly well off the tee and put yourself in good spots.   So did you feel like you didn't play aggressively enough?  
LIZETTE SALAS:   No, I had an aggressive line; just didn't end up where I wanted to.   Get a funky bounce here or there and miss by a yard or two and then...   
But I hit an awesome shot on 9 and look what happened?   It went ten yards over.   That's just golf.   All you can do is put the a good swing, out a good thought in your head, and that's what I've been trying to do the past two weeks.  
Coming down the stretch I was getting a little bit frustrated, but with the birdie putt on 14 that was a big one for me.   
   
 Q.   Great shot, too.   What do you hit?  
LIZETTE SALAS:   Thank you.   7‑iron.   We've always hit driver, 7‑iron, driver, 3‑wood.   That's been my club on 18.  
   
 Q.   How much more confidence can you have right now going into the Kraft?  
LIZETTE SALAS:   I fell really confident compared to three weeks ago where I was mental‑wise.   These next three days just go back to work and kind of put this in the back of your head, but know that you can pull off putts going down the stretch.  
   
 Q.   You work with a mental coach?  
LIZETTE SALAS:   No.   My dad pretty much.   My dad is very optimistic.  
   
 Q.   Like dinners and car rides?  
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah, and my mom, if I make bogey she's like, The hole is over here kind of thing.  
I have a great support system from my family.   I'm I hope they're happy about the finish I had even though I didn't win.   Definitely a big win for Team Salas for sure.  
   
 Q.   What would this next week mean to you if you could pull it off?  
LIZETTE SALAS:   I mean, it would mean a lot.   But I'm trying not to focus too far ahead.   Just focus on the things that I need to work on during practice and just try to stay in the moment, stay present.  
I know that sounds so boring and simple, but it goes a long way with me.   Something my college coach taught me since I was a freshman.   It's definitely been working.  
   
 Q.   Every day your crowds have been growing, and today is an army here.   How did you feel about that?  
LIZETTE SALAS:   I feel blessed to have the support from my friends and family and my community, especially the Latin community.   For them to come out here and cheer me on in English and Spanish, to get the best of both worlds, it's definitely been a heck of a week.  
   
 Q.   As many times as you've played the Dinah course, how does it suit your eye?  
LIZETTE SALAS:   Well, I guess we'll see the next couple days of practice.   Last year, first three rounds I played awesome.   So I feel pretty good about it.   Just got to work on the mental a little bit more in the final round.  
Still, I just have to go back to work and work on the basics and work on what works for me.   So I'm sure my coach and I will sit down and have a little chat about what needs to be a little better for next week.  
But I think I'm ready.  
   
 Q.   Is there a hole, a putt, is there one you're going to think about?   
LIZETTE SALAS:   Probably 16.   No, 15, sorry.   I really wanted that putt to go in.   I missed it on the high side so I gave it a chance, a good roll.   That's all I really wanted to do is give it a chance.  
Front nine I was not getting the balls anywhere near the hole, so just give it a good stroke, a good run.   If it finds the hole, fist pump it in.   If not, move on.  
   
 Q.   What was the distance on 15?  
LIZETTE SALAS:   About 10 to 12 feet.   So that was in my range.   Just didn't go in.   
   
 Q.   You said there was some bit of an attitude change.   
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Was there a pep talk from dad or something that clicked that you thought...   
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah, yeah, after Asia, do I laugh this off or do I cry about it?   It was kind of embarrassing.  
   
 Q.   A combination?  
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah, combo of both embarrassing for me to do that in Asia away from my family, but my dad even came by and said, I never wanted you to go through this, but I think you had to.  
So just kind of gave me a reality check on you really need to work on the basics.   I went back to drills that I worked on last year, that even though they seem silly to me, they really do work.  
My dad made a gadget for my putting to make sure I was it aligned correctly.   Just worked on the simple things.  
Yeah, just really tried to not focus on the result and more on the process.   
   
 Q.   Thank you.   Great finish, girlfriend.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT