KIA CLASSIC
March 29, 2014
Lizette Salas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  LIZETTE SALAS:   I just really tried to minimize my mistakes, and today on the front nine, my driver was just on, and with me, if I get my driver just dead center of the fairway that just pumps me up.   I hit really good putts out there that weren't dropping and when this poa annua grow, you can't tell how the ball is going to re‑I can't being.   I just gave it good putts.   
I'm really just trying to capitalize on the par 5s.   I haven't really taken advantage of them and just trying to get a little closer and just been getting good up‑and‑downs, as well, too.   Just staying patient.   That's really my key this week is to stay patient, even though I'm in trouble, like on, for example, 13, where I hit it in the bunker, I just stay patient and knew I can get up‑and‑down from there.   I made bogey on 15, but one bogey out of three days is not a bad thing, and I knew coming down the stretch, I can easily birdie 16, 17.   
So I just really tried to hit my targets and hit good putts.   
   
 Q.   How about giving yourself another chance, you played well here last year; without a win, is it any more pressure, do you think, when you don't have a win yet?   
LIZETTE SALAS:   No, I don't think of that.   I don't think of any‑‑ just because I don't have a win, doesn't mean that I can't win out here.   And you know, to have my family and my friends and my community come out and wear the tee shirts and cheer me on whether I'm up‑and‑down, that's an advantage for me.   I mean , that pumps me up and just keep smiling and stay positive.   
So you know, we'll just see what happens tomorrow and you know, I gave it my best and that's all I can ask for.   
   
 Q.   Who made the shirts?   
LIZETTE SALAS:   My mom.   My mom and my brother‑in‑law's uncle, so we tried to do something different this year.   Last year we had the yellow and this year we are doing the purple.  
   
 Q.   How many did they make?   
LIZETTE SALAS:   Oh, we made about a hundred of them.   They will be out next week, too.   We made enough.  
   
 Q.   How many people do you know that are wearing them?  
LIZETTE SALAS:   I know about 99 percent of them.   Yeah, they are all family and friends of mine.   So through my junior golf program and family, neighbors, everyone can get a shirt.  
   
 Q.   What do you think of Kerr's par on the last hole?   
LIZETTE SALAS:   Oh, it was great.   I was just laughing because I had‑‑ that's Kerr.   You can expect nothing but the best from her.   That was a great putt and I was like, okay, let's try to match it, and you know, I just gave it a good run and I gave it a good, solid putt.   Just didn't go in.   For me, if I get a good stroke in a good spot, that's all you can have control over.   If it goes in, it doesn't, just next hole.  
   
 Q.   Club choice on 16, they were talking on TV a little bit, was it hybrid?   What number was it?   
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah, it was my 3‑hybrid/5‑wood.   It just give me a better second shot in.   One of those halvesy shots are not really my favorite to go to; so if I get more of a full shot in I can get really close.   So we just went with that, and it wasn't‑‑ the last two drives, I was pulling them to the left and so I really tried to just give myself‑‑ give me a good number and in play, as well, so that's what we did.   
   
 Q.   What number did you have?   
LIZETTE SALAS:   I had about 45, still little halvesy, but still better than a 20‑something yarder.   So maybe tomorrow, we'll hit driver.   It all depends on how I'm feeling.   
   
 Q.   What do you think of this 18th hole?   
LIZETTE SALAS:   I like it.   It's weird to the eye, and it's a little intimidating with the stand to the left and the water on the right but if you just get it on the fairway like I have been the last three days and give yourself a good angle to the pin and just get on the green, I think you can 2‑putt from anywhere.   
These greens are tricky, so have to be on the right plateau.  
   
 Q.   What do you have planned for tonight with all these people here?  
LIZETTE SALAS:   Just low key.   We'll probably go out to dinner.   I don't know yet.   We'll see what my siblings want to do and my parents, so we'll see.   
   
 Q.   Being this close to the lead, when do you think you've handled it the best or what will you draw on from the past going into tomorrow?   
LIZETTE SALAS:   I mean, I was one shot out in the Bahamas on Sunday.   I felt great.   I felt good.   I felt comfortable.   I think that's the most important thing is to feel comfortable in the position you're in.   I don't think I've ever been tied for the lead, but I feel good about my game.   I feel good about the way I'm rolling the ball and just got to be a little more aggressive on the par 5s and minimize your mistakes off the tee.   
FastScripts by ASAP Sports ...  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT