KIA CLASSIC
March 29, 2014
Lizette Salas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   After a great round today, co‑leader heading into Sunday, how do you feel?   
LIZETTE SALAS:   I feel great.   I felt like I left some putts out there, but I'm still hitting great shots and giving myself opportunities for birdie, and to be in this position, I feel good.   I feel comfortable.   Tomorrow is going to be an exciting day.   We'll just see what happens.   I've just got to relax a little more and smile a little more.   
You know, another round in the 60s is a good thing, but I still feel like I left some putts out there, but that's golf.   You've just got to shake it off.  
   
 Q.   You have a lot of family here tonight.   What do you do tomorrow in preparation for your round?   
LIZETTE SALAS:   I just do the same thing as any other day.   You know, hopefully wake up in a good mood.   But just stay calm and not be rushed and relaxed and to greet my fans before the round and just be‑‑ exact like normal me and just have my usual warm up, not really focus on anything, just stay relaxed and just try to have fun.   
That's the point.   That's the reason why I'm here and that's the reason why we're all here is to have fun and to win championships.  
   
 Q.   There's a lot of purple out there today.   Can you tell us a little bit about that group, what is the significance of the purple today?   
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah, you know, the purple started a little bit last year when my coach, Jim Gormley, was diagnosed with Hodgkin's lymphoma and purple happened to be the color for that awareness.   And so he wasn't able to come out, so every weekend I would wear purple.   So he's now cancer‑free.  
We just kept it going and everyone likes it.   So that's the significance of the purple, Team Purple, Purple Weekend, whatever you want to call it that's the significance of it.   He's been important to me since day one, so that's the story behind it.   
   
 Q.   And the purple tee shirts out there, who is that group and what does their support mean to you?   
LIZETTE SALAS:   It started with my mom.   My mom's wanted to do something different this year and I chose purple, and so that was a little homework assignment while I was in Asia and she did a fantastic job and my family is wearing them, my junior golf program, their parents, the kids are wearing them.   It's just a reminder of how much I love this game and how much they have supported me throughout the years and to be in this position coming into Sunday is a good feeling and hopefully they will be happy with the result tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT