KIA CLASSIC
March 27, 2014
Lizette Salas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   So solid round out there.   Just thoughts.   I don't think any‑‑ three birdies, no bogeys?
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah.   It was a pretty steady round, and just like last week, try to keep everything simple, hitting greens, hitting fairways and greens. 
These last couple of days for practice I felt really good, just been working with my coach and trying to keep everything simple, and just for me, just stay in the fairway, keep it simple.
And you know, rolled in some good putts, and I left a lot of putts out there, but there's plenty of golf to be played, so pretty confident.

Q.   And then that shot, the approach shot on 17, did that jump start your round a little bit, hit it to about two inches?
LIZETTE SALAS:   On 17?   Yeah.   That's just a confidence booster, you know, those tap‑ins just really give you that extra momentum to keep going and to keep firing at the pin, especially on these par‑5s, so I mean that was a little‑‑ that was a good treat.

Q.   And the birdie on 1 and 2?
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah.   Those were really good putts, you know, left to rights.   Those are always a little tricky for me, just you know, for right handers to get the ball started on line, but just kind of throw in little fist pumps for those and just to keep it going.

Q.   You played well last week.   You had a couple of really solid rounds.   Any momentum that you felt really good last week that came over?
LIZETTE SALAS:   Oh, definitely.   Just the whole week in general.   I just felt like myself, and just‑‑ I was just much more happier playing, and you know, being in the West Coast, you know, this is my backyard almost, and just being out here and being able to play the sport that I love and figuring out why I love it so much, and really keeping it simple. 
I feel like I thought way too much after Bahamas and in Asia, so after that I just kind of cleared my mind, went back to the basics, and it's been helping a lot.

Q.   Did you do anything specific, mind clearing, relaxation stuff?
LIZETTE SALAS:   No.

Q.   Anything just more?
LIZETTE SALAS:   A couple of mani/pedis.

Q.   That'll do it. 
LIZETTE SALAS:   But yeah, I've been starting this core exercise program with Curtis and the guys in the trailer, so that's been‑‑ you know, because I've had some back issues and to prevent that from happening this year, I've been working on that and you know, just had like two sessions, but I feel pretty good.

Q.   Okay. 
LIZETTE SALAS:   And everything is just coming together just trying to stay one shot at a time.   I know it's a little cheese I or cliche, but it's helpful. 

Q.   Okay.   What about so lastly International Crown, you're on the cusp.   I think you're mathematically possible to jump in. 
LIZETTE SALAS:   Oh, I didn't know. 

Q.   Okay.   So it hasn't been on, you haven't been watching?
LIZETTE SALAS:   No.   I haven't been.   You know, it's something that would be a great honor to represent my country again.   You know, I'm just looking at baby steps right now, and if that‑‑ if it happens, I'll be super ecstatic about it, but if not, you know, I got years to come and right now my focus‑‑ next week's a major, and so my focus is to build up as much confidence as I can in order to win Kraft next week.

Q.   Lizette, you talk about keeping it simple, but do you consider yourself a grinder out there?   I think I saw you on Monday.   Seemed like you were working pretty hard on the range. 
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah.   I tend to put in a lot of work Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and really just trying to get my routine steady and get a solid pre‑shot routine, and you know, to have my coach here all three days prepping me, that's been really great for us to work together.   And you know, just when I get on the course, it's just pick a target routine and fire at it.

Q.   And then will you work on your game right now or will you just kind of take it easy?
LIZETTE SALAS:   I'll just have lunch and then work on a couple of putts.   I felt like I played really good today.   Just a couple putts didn't go in, but other than that, I'm swinging at it pretty good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT