JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 21, 2014
Lizette Salas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Nice way to make a move up the leaderboard.   What kind of was really working well for you today?  
LIZETTE SALAS:   I mean everything has been working for me this week.   You know, those two weeks in Asia were really rough, and so during the off weeks I just went back to the drawing board, just kind of cleared my mind and really reminded myself why I love this game so much, and just came out here, just try to smile as much as I can, and even though I would hit a bad shot, I would just laugh it off and not get in that panic mode that I did in Asia.   
So kind of tweaked the putter a little bit, got a new driver, got new toys, and so I was ready to come.   I was excited and I was pumped, and I love this golf course.   And it's playing so great and the greens are running so true, so I'm very pleased in how I'm playing right now.  
   
 Q.   What did you tweak to the putter?  
LIZETTE SALAS:   I put in a purple shaft.   That's what I did.   
   
 Q.   Hey.   Purple, we know purple is a good color for you.   
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yes.   I put that.   And a little different feel, you know, with the counter balance putters, you get more of the grip weight, so this time I got a little more head weight on it, and it's rolling great right now, and just hope I don't jinx it, but everything is going really well, and my caddie and I have been communicating a lot more, a lot better, and it's been working great.  
   
 Q.   And you said new driver too?  
LIZETTE SALAS:   New driver.  
   
 Q.   What change did you go to?  
LIZETTE SALAS:   Well, I tried the jet‑‑ I got the JetSpeed, and I really wanted to hit it, and you know, the rep is like, well, let's put in your old shaft.   And so I put it in, and I said, wow, that's in the bag.  
   
 Q.   You're keeping that one.   
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah.   So everything agency coming together, and you know, we're just getting ready for these next three weeks, and the next two weeks I'll be in my backyard, so this will be a good confidence booster for me.  
   
 Q.   Good timing.   I know we're getting down to the final two weeks where people can qualify for the international crown.   
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Is that something, you're kind of right there on that bubble edge.   I know only four players.   
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Have you been thinking about that or is that something that would mean a lot to you to be on?  
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah.   It would mean a lot to me.   But right now that's in the back of my mind.   I'm just focusing on hitting fairways and hitting greens and really giving myself good opportunities for birdies.   
You know, if it happens, it happens, if not, there's Solheim Cup, too.   But for me to be on that team would mean a lot.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT