PURE SILK-BAHAMAS LPGA CLASSIC
January 24, 2014
Lizette Salas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  LIZETTE SALAS:   I was in tears this morning.   I woke up with flu symptoms and high fever, and I wasn't even sure if I was going to even play.   I was in tears because I wanted to play so bad.   I was working on a lot of stuff during the off‑season, so I was ready to compete and was hitting it okay on the range, and just kind of took a deep breath and said, let's just play.   The breeze kind of helped a little bit staying cool, and I just stayed present and tried to hit as many fairways and greens as I could.   It obviously worked.

Q.   You really gutted it out those last three holes. 
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah, I did.

Q.   Made a great par save on 16. 
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah, the closer we got to the water the more the wind picked up.   On 17 it was almost a three‑club wind.   I've learned over the years you just have to go with it.   You can't fight the wind, especially being so close to the ocean.   I just tried to enjoy it.   I said I'd rather not be in bed crying wanting to play instead of giving it my all today, and that's exactly what I did today.

Q.   Do you feel better now?
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah, I think it's coming back, so I might need to take some rest this afternoon. 

Q.   You played really well in Hawai'i last year and now playing really well in the Bahamas.   Is there something about island golf that seems to suit your game?
LIZETTE SALAS:   I don't know.   I think you just have to play with the wind and use your imagination.   When the wind kicks in, you just forget about mechanics and you just have to figure out where to start the ball and where the ball would end.   That's the type of golf I like to play.   I like to use my imagination, and that's exactly what happened today.   I wasn't really focused on mechanics or where the club should be at the top of my golf swing.   I was just feeling it today, feeling it and rolling it today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT