SOLHEIM CUP
September 14, 2019
Lizette Salas
Danielle Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What a successful partnership here. Fantastic match. Can you describe in some kind of words what it was like playing?  
LIZETTE SALAS: I'm at a loss for words. These are the toughest conditions I've ever played in. And we hung in there for each other. We hung in there for our team. And we hung in there for the people at home watching. And it was just an awesome day, playing with my best friend, and getting that win for Team USA feels pretty incredible.   
 Q.  Does it make it easier knowing that you are playing with your best friends?  
DANIELLE KANG: Most definitely. We definitely joke out there, but we're definitely serious. We've got each other's back. And the fact that I know she has my back no matter what definitely helps me play my game better.   
 Q.  After this match, we saw Juli give you some words of wisdom. Could you tell us what she said?  
LIZETTE SALAS: It's a secret. (Laughter).   
 Q.  You put your first points on the board. How much is it going into singles confidence-wise now that you have that?  
DANIELLE KANG: It feels good to know that we can hit under these conditions and going into tomorrow knowing that anything can happen on a Sunday.   
So, yeah, we have really good momentum going into tomorrow and we just gotta play our games. And Juli told me to play my boring golf. And that really worked today.   
 Q.  Tight match out there. Can you sum up how you're feeling?  
LIZETTE SALAS: We feel amazing. We feel a little warmer now that we got that red point on the board. And to close it out on 17, not having to go to the final hole feels pretty good. We stuck it pretty close. And we had each other's back. We had a lot of confidence in each other. And I think that's why we played so well today.   
 Q.  Won three holes in a row, 6, 7, 8. Danielle, how important is it for the swing of events for the match?  
DANIELLE KANG: We just tried to focus on what's in front of us. And Lizette made a lot of bombs out there today. And, yeah, just had a lot of -- I love playing with her. (Laughter).   
 Q.  Incredibly tough conditions. Obviously taking its toll. What will you do tonight to make sure you're ready to go tomorrow?  
LIZETTE SALAS: Some dry clothes, some good food and some rest, and we'll see what Juli has in store for us as a pep talk. But we have a lot of really positive momentum going and we know what we can do now under these conditions. So we just have to go out and do it.   
 Q.  Winning putt on 2. Danielle Kang, the hand warmer, because it's so cold out there -- Danielle, you must be delighted, darkness descends. That was a hard-fought well-earned point for Team USA.  
DANIELLE KANG: We definitely fought hard out there. They definitely weren't easy. And we worked very hard. And like she says, we love playing with each other and just love that we put a point up there for America and for both of us.   
 Q.  Lizette, these conditions a lot of people have been commenting about your ear muffs they're big and I'm sure they're very warm but what about the conditions can you remember playing in conditions like this?  
LIZETTE SALAS: No, these earmuffs are a game-changer and ski mask I really don't have this weather in California but to play the way I did out here, finally got a point up there for both of us and for the people at home watching, and we know people are pulling and we fought hard all day.   
 Q.  Eight points each going into the final day doesn't get much closer than that going into the last day of singles?  
DANIELLE KANG: I think it will be an exciting day tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT