U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2013
Lizette Salas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   They always say par is good at a U.S. Open.   Was par good today?
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah, I'm not as pleased with it just because I was striking the ball very well.   At the same time you have to look at the bright side, and you have to take into effect the wind and the weather, how it's a completely different golf course.   I was still hitting my targets and even though the putts didn't fall, I still was confident over every shot and, you know, I really wanted to make birdie on the last hole. 
You just can't be too greedy out here.   Just hitting fairways, hitting greens, that was my goal.   Eventually the putts will drop.

Q.   Has it ever happened to you before?   The scorecard disappearing like that?
LIZETTE SALAS:   No, I have never lost my scorecard.   I don't know how that happened.   I really don't know what happened there.   It just kind of flew away.   I blame the wind for losing my scorecard. 
Apparently this guy had it.   Yeah, that would have not been good.

Q.   Was he going to keep it as a souvenir?
LIZETTE SALAS:   I think so.   I think he was trying to keep it as a souvenir.   I was asking everyone and no one saw it.   And apparently some dude picked it up.

Q.   Where did he pick it up?
LIZETTE SALAS:   I have no idea.   Probably just when I was giving the standard barren or scorer my golf ball I think I must have dropped it.   That's weird.

Q.   What hole was that on?
LIZETTE SALAS:   The final hole, yeah.

Q.   How did you think the course played differently today?   I heard the pins were more tucked?
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah, definitely a little more tucked.   You know, the ball was just not releasing as much as yesterday because of the rain, but the air was a lot heavier so you had to take a little more extra club.   It was still the same wind as yesterday but a little stronger. 
But at the same time, you just had to take your medicine and really try to take advantage of the par 5s.   And I got into some trouble and had to get up and down on par 5s.   In that sense I felt like I didn't complete my goal or didn't accomplish my goal, but I still hit really good shots out there.   I'm just saving my putts for the weekend.

Q.   You switched to the shorter putter.   How is the switch going?
LIZETTE SALAS:     The switch is good.   I switched in Hawaii and from Dallas to maybe last week, I have been going back and forth which feels good and, you know, to me it's the same stroke.   And I feel like with this Tank, the counterbalance, I feel like it's the same.   It gives me the sensation of a belly putter and I just like the way it looks, how it feels, how the ball comes off the face, you know, so what the help of that and my swing coach, it feels good.

Q.   Who is here with you this week?   I know your folks are here.   Is it your niece and nephew?
LIZETTE SALAS:   My niece and nephew are here, mom and dad, my agent are here with me, I had Hollis Stacy (ph) come out and watch a couple of holes yesterday. 
So having family here is always good.   And hearing my niece and nephew cheering me on puts a smile on my face.

Q.   Don't you have a new addition to the family?
LIZETTE SALAS:   A week ago my brother and his wife just had a baby, so another golfer in the family hopefully.   You know, it's been a long time since we've had a baby in the family.   So we're very excited, very happy.   Hopefully by the time he's five, he should be out here.

Q.   Speaking of that, I notice that several of the amateurs, younger kids started really, really young, is that changing?   Is it impossible to be a pro now unless you've started at a really young age? 
LIZETTE SALAS:   That's a tough question.   I mean, I honestly don't think so.   You know, you hear players that start at 10, 11years old, some that start when they start walking.   So I think it just all depends on how hard they work and how much support they have from their family or from their community. 
I was a late bloomer playing amateur golf and I think it turned out just fine. 
You know, you do see a lot of kids nowadays younger and younger getting that confidence and getting on that national worldwide level, more exposure, but I think that's just how it is with the technology and all the support from the fans.

Q.   When you say the course changed so much from yesterday, are there some clubs that just never came out of your bag today?   What changes like that? 
LIZETTE SALAS:   The 5‑wood didn't come out of my bag today.   You know, it just not many short irons came out of my bag today.   A lot of mid irons, long irons.   You just had to be‑‑ take a conservative line on certain pin locations. 
And you know, on 8, that tucked pin, if you are on the right side, you really had to be creative.   I hugged it on the left and used the slope to my advantage.   But you still have to use your imagination whether you have a short club our long club.

Q.   Is that because of the wind?
LIZETTE SALAS:   I think so and the fact that it's a little softer and the ball wasn't rolling as much. 

Q.   Considering the wind is picking up this afternoon, do you‑‑ will you take where you are on the leaderboard?
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah, I mean, even par is not a bad score at a U.S. Open second round, and we'll just see how the afternoon‑‑ how the afternoon goes and Inbee and Caroline are in that afternoon wave, so we'll see what happens. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT