LPGA LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY J GOLF
April 19, 2013
Lizette Salas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   First off, just great round.   Take me through the day and what was really working well for you?
LIZETTE SALAS:   Well, I made a big change on Tuesday.   I went back to the short putter.   It was a good decision.   I felt good about it, and that's what was really working for me today as I was making putts.   I had five birdies on the front nine and just kept giving myself opportunities and really just wasn't in trouble today.   And that's what kept the momentum going. 
I'm visualizing a lot better.   I'm just having more fun, and just 5‑under par is a great score here with this wind, and I was texting my swing instructor, like how do I get the ball low, because I have a high ball flight, so I was just trying to get the ball low and out of trouble. 
The 2nd hole was very intimidating, so after I birdied that one it gave me a lot of confidence to attack the hole today.

Q.   What made you make the decision to change the putter this week?
LIZETTE SALAS:   Everyone was telling me you're putting really good with the belly, and I said, yeah, but I think it needs a break.   I was very restricted.   I needed to be more free, I needed to visualize better.   It's the same stroke, just not anchored.   It felt good, and I just picked it up from the TaylorMade rep, and it fit perfectly, and I said I think I might keep it.   So I played it in the pro‑am, and yeah, it's been working great.

Q.   How long had you been using the belly putter before this?
LIZETTE SALAS:   Since second stage of Q‑school, so almost two years.   Yeah, it's a very long time, and I had a lot of success with it.   You know, it was one of those decisions where I just felt comfortable, and it's time for a change.   You know, everyone told me I was a good putter even before I used the belly, so I just had to believe it, and it's been working great. 

Q.   Take me through‑‑ we all know at Kraft you put yourself in contention and had a rough Sunday, but usually that's when you learn the biggest lessons are days like that.   What have you taken from that Sunday until now as you're right back up at the top of the leaderboard?
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah, I learned a lot.   I learned how to really grind, and being here in Hawai'i with the wind you really have to grind, and yesterday I ground it out for 1‑under par, which is a phenomenal score.   I learned how to stay patient.   I learned that a bad round doesn't define who you are as a player.   I wrote in a blog, even after shooting 79 I came back with 69.   That's the type of player I am.   I bounce back.   Yeah, it was a terrible score at Kraft and bad timing, but it's just one of those days, and I learned how to forget about it.   I let the clubs stay in the car for a couple of days.   I didn't pick them up until Thursday and just relaxed, and I knew I was better than that, and it's definitely showing here.

Q.   Overall your confidence level in terms of getting up there now.   You've been starting to play really well and seeing your name up towards the top of the leaderboard.   Is there a comfort level that comes with that the more experience you get?
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah, definitely, I'm getting a lot more comfortable seeing my name up at the top of the leaderboard, and that's what Nancy Lopez has been teaching me is to look at the leaderboard and to really study it and to figure out what I need to do.   You know, today it was just fun.   I just started seeing the ball go in the hole a lot more, and confident putting stroke.   Yeah, it's awfully nice to see my name up on the leaderboard so consistently this year.   But you never know with this wind what will happen tomorrow.   Just got to stay patient and not get too ahead of myself tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT