KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 6, 2013
Lizette Salas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You played with Inbee Park today.   What was the experience like?  
LIZETTE SALAS:   It was good.   You know, of course I had some nerves, but I started out birdie‑birdie.   I came out strong.   And then just kind of cruised along.   I was not hitting the ball as well as the first two days, but I kept giving myself good opportunities for a birdie.   Played the back nine bogey‑free, with only one birdie, so made good up‑and‑downs for par.   
You can't ask for more than being in the final pairing at a major.   This is only my second year, and I've played with Inbee several times, so we'll see.   She played great today.  
   
 Q.   How important was it for you to answer her birdie at the first hole?  
LIZETTE SALAS:   That was big for me, just to come back with a birdie of my own and throw a little fist pump in there, and then the next hole came back strong with another birdie.   
So I just think if I just stick to my game plan and just keep my hands steady and my head quiet, a lot more putts will roll in tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   What were you thinking over this putt on the 1st hole?  
LIZETTE SALAS:   It looked good to me, and I just knew it was going to go in.   I heard the crowd going, and that just kept my adrenaline flowing.  
   
 Q.   How much are they a factor in your performance this week?  
LIZETTE SALAS:   They're a big impact on me, and I want to play well as much for them as it is for me.  
   
 Q.   Birdie at 2?  
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yep, see there, fist pump from my caddie, as well.   
   
 Q.   And here at the 9th?  
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah, gave me a good yardage and felt comfortable, and I can dial it right in.   The crowd was happy.   
   
 Q.   Of all the players coming into this week, you've probably had the most consistent form this season, a couple top 10s in your last two starts.   Are you right where you want to be?   
LIZETTE SALAS:   Definitely.   Always being in contention is a goal, and that's where I want to be, and I talked several times with my agents, with my coaches, and this is the position I've worked for the last six months, so I'm very pleased.   
   
 Q.   The 17th, a little trouble there?  
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah, I was not happy, but just tried to get as close as I can and you never know, it might go in.   The same thing happened yesterday.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT