KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 4, 2013
Lizette Salas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Good round.   Take me through the day.   
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah, only two birdies and no bogeys.   Ball‑striking is really solid right now, just trying to keep that momentum for the next three days.   Just a little more work on the putter.   So it was good having my swing instructor out here the first couple of days.   
Just going to try and keep it simple out there.   I was in the rough only a couple times today and was lucky to get up‑and‑down for par, and just got to keep it simple.   Even though it's a major championship, you just have to think about it as another tournament.  
   
 Q.   How much were you working with your coach beforehand?  
LIZETTE SALAS:   Before here?   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   
LIZETTE SALAS:   Well, he was out at Kia.   I see him like two two days every time I'm home, and he has other players out here on Tour, so he's just a great help, and he's helping me know how to help myself, which is really key for me.  
   
 Q.   What's his name?  
LIZETTE SALAS:   Jim Gormley.  
   
 Q.   How awesome is it to play in California and have family and friends cheer you on?  
LIZETTE SALAS:   Oh, it's great.   I'm only an hour and a half from here, and I have friends out in Palm Desert area, and having family, having my junior golf kids come out and support me, having my Trojan fan club come out, you see all those SC logos, and that's the beautiful thing about being in Southern Cal.   We're all united and just happy to be back in Southern Cal and see the family.  
   
 Q.   No sophomore slump for you.   You're playing so well this year.   Are you more comfortable or do you just know your game and know how you size up to the rest of the field?  
LIZETTE SALAS:   Yeah, definitely.   I feel much more comfortable.   You know, I've learned in the last six months a lot more about the golf swing and how to adjust on the golf course.   Just feeling more comfortable in my own skin, not feeling intimidated by anything.   
I'm just a whole different person from six months ago to now, and just being in contention the last couple of weeks has really been a big boost of confidence, and I'm just going to‑‑ I've gotten some mentorship from Nancy, and playing with Oscar delaHoya yesterday, I'm getting so many people in my corner, it's just a blessing.   I've just got to go out and play golf, and my agents have been doing such a great job of doing things outside the golf course to let me go out there and do my thing.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the pro‑am, Oscar delaHoya.   That must have been quite an experience.   
LIZETTE SALAS:   He was amazing.   You can just see why so many people love him, and he never says no to an autograph.   So humble and so bubbly, his personality.   My caddie Greg is good friends with him, so we were just having a good time yesterday.   We kind of grew up the same way, Hispanic descent, Mexican‑American, so we just talked a little bit about it, and he loves golf, and he was just telling me how a boxer's mentality can be incorporated into golf.   It was just a great time yesterday.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT