CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 25, 2019
Lizette Salas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So 7-under a couple weeks ago at the British Open; today 8-under. What propelled you have to such a final round like that and be in rhythm?  
LIZETTE SALAS: Actually, to be completely honest, I had one of the worst warmups I've had in a very long time. So I just kind of went in with a mindset like, Okay, let's just -- I don't know. Let's just play how it goes and focus on your shot, focus on like simplicity and hitting fairways, hitting greens, and it seemed to have worked.   
My putter has been just rolling really great the last couple weeks. Just kind of going through that same momentum as the British Open and trying to dig as deep as possible.   
 Q.  What is it about the warmup that didn't feel right?  
LIZETTE SALAS: Putting was not great; everything was just not -- it was not touching the hole. Just trying to focus on speed. I think that's why it's called a warmup. You're just going through your drills and kind of getting ready for the rest of the day. Something felt off. I probably got into a rhythm from the walk from the range to the 1st tee.   
So, yeah, no, I'm really pleased, really proud of how we played today.   
 Q.  Obviously had a great round. Was there anything you thought that you could have done better?  
LIZETTE SALAS: Not bogey 17. (Laughter.) It didn't treat me that great this week. Hit a good shot and I hit the putt I wanted to on 17.   
I wish I could have came out a little stronger on round one, but that's golf.   
 Q.  What about 17 is more difficult than some of the other holes?  
LIZETTE SALAS: It's just funky tee shot. The green didn't hold very well and I was in between shots a lot. So, I mean, at least I didn't hit it in the water.   
 Q.  Round one was a little bit tricky. As the week went on you got stronger. Was that a by-product of your game or something else, familiarity with the course, that helped you out there?  
LIZETTE SALAS: No, I just played a little too conservative on round one. We figured something out in the putting stroke after Thursday, and I think that's what really helped out the rest of the tournament.   
I just said, You know what? You got nothing to lose. Let's go throw some darts out on the course.   
 Q.  How much momentum are you bringing into Scotland in a few weeks?  
LIZETTE SALAS: Oh, I'm in Solheim mode. Been in Solheim mode for a long time now. To see these shots getting close to Solheim, it's really getting me pumped up. I'm ready to put on the red, white, and blue.   
 Q.  Do you know that you tied the course record?  
LIZETTE SALAS: Yes, I did. Not too happy with that. No, I'm kidding. No, it's pretty cool to tie the course record. I still feel like I left some shots out there, especially on 18 leaving it a foot short.   
Gave it a good run, and can't complain about a 64 on a Sunday.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT