U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 8, 2011
Lizette Salas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PETE KOWALSKI: Even par through two rounds at the Women's Open, Lizette Salas. 
 LIZETTE SALAS: Hi, everybody. 

 Q. How are you doing? 
 LIZETTE SALAS: Good, just tired.

 Q. You got two rounds in at even par. That's pretty good. 
 LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah, I just kind of thought of it as another U.S. Open qualifier where I played 36 holes and tried not to get too ahead of myself. I got into some trouble early which got my a little more grounded. 
 And then on my back nine, which is the front nine, I went par -- what did I go, Greg? Par, par, par, birdie, birdie, so that get me back to red numbers. 
 Then I bogeyed 5. From then on kept steady fairway, green, two-putt, and occasional up-and-down. So it was good. 

 Q. How many holes did you play total today? 
 LIZETTE SALAS: Um, 35 and a putt. (Laughter.) Yeah, it was a long day.

 Q. How much time did you have between rounds?
 LIZETTE SALAS: About an hour. So I just stretched and hit a couple putts, ate some lunch. I was starving. Yep. 

 Q. Do you prefer this kind of day to yesterday?
 LIZETTE SALAS: Well, I got play today, which is good. Yesterday I only hit a drive approach and a putt.
 Wish it didn't have to be like that, but weather, yeah.

 Q. How much of a distraction is it, this weather? 
 LIZETTE SALAS: Um, it could be distracting just because you don't move for a long time and kind of lose focus.
 But, um, everyone has to deal with it. I've been dealing with it for three events on the Futures Tour, so I'm kind of used to it. 

 Q. Can you put into words and perspective the fact that not only are you making the cut at U.S. Women's Open, but you're on the leaderboard?
 LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah, it's pretty nice to have my name up on the leaderboard. Um, is this is my fourth professional tournament. Just graduated from USC. 
 It's been good so far. Going in with no expectations and just going to have fun with it. 

 Q. You shot 69 this morning. Coming off a good round like that, do you want to keep on playing? Were you in a groove? 
 LIZETTE SALAS: I was. I was kind of in like a boring stage I call it, just fairway, green, putt and occasionally I would hit a good shot close and make the birdie. 
 Today got a little shaky. I was getting tired both physically and mentally tired, but I stayed strong throughout the round. 
 Yeah, just wanted to par in. That's all I wanted to do. 

 Q. Did you play against Ryann O'Toole? 
 LIZETTE SALAS: I did for two years. Yeah, now I see her more. She's always been a long-hitter, so it's good for her.

 Q. This course set up well for her, you think? Are you surprised to see her up there?
 LIZETTE SALAS: No, I'm not surprised. She's always been a good player. When she's on, she's on. 
 Yeah, I'm glad to see she's up there, too. Good for our conference.

 Q. When you get tired, how do you combat that? 
 LIZETTE SALAS: Um, well, swing-wise I try not to force it, because if I force it I get into trouble. 
 Just try to breathe more and just play a game in my head. Just hit the fairway, the green, and just make par. That's it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT