U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 8, 2011
Lizette Salas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   LIZETTE SALAS: (Noise disturbance.) I had to start off with a four-footer, which was not where I wanted.   
 (Indiscernible.)  
  
  Q. That was the one that you got suspended...   
 LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah.  
  
  Q. You so didn't even play a whole hole yesterday?  
 LIZETTE SALAS: No. Then I came out and birdied the second hole.  
  
  Q. How long was the putt?  
 LIZETTE SALAS: Seven feet. Then kept playing par golf, which is great here. Made about a 15-, 20-footer on 9 for birdie.   
 And then just kept playing. Had my first bogey on 12. Into the rough and missed my putt there. I wasn't too upset about it.  
  
  Q. How long was the putt?   
 LIZETTE SALAS: About 10 feet, yeah. Then made a really good putt - I think Juli saw it - on 15.  
  
  Q. 30 feet?  
 LIZETTE SALAS: I think so, 30, 35.  
  
  Q. Did it do what you thought it would do?  
 LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah. Well, I actually thought it wasn't going to get there, and then I saw it just pick up speed. I was like, Give it to me one time, and it went in.   
 And then just played steady. Didn't want to force anything.  
 Been playing consistent the last couple weeks, especially the last two events of the Futures Tour and just been more comfortable in my own skin.  
  
  Q. Pretty good adjustment to the pro life?  
 LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah, I think so. I'm not that far off. It's nice to see my name on the leaderboard. It's kind of nerve-wracking, but it comes with the territory.  
  
  Q. You were in contention in the last tournament you played on the Futures Tour in Michigan. How much did that help you coming into like a big tournament like this?  
 LIZETTE SALAS: I think it just helped me mentally. I know in that event I came really close, one shot behind her, and you know, just didn't give up. Even though I was three shots off, I didn't give up.   
 Just my putting has helped me a lot and boosted up my confidence a little bit. Just got a new driver in the bag and it feels great.  
  
  Q. What kind of driver?  
 LIZETTE SALAS: RAZR Hawk Callaway.   
  
  Q. So many people are talking about the greens playing really different. What are you doing to manage this course? What's your game plan?  
 LIZETTE SALAS: I have no idea what I'm doing. I'm just trying to hit as many fairways as I can. I think I hit all fairways today. I missed a couple greens, but my wedge game is pretty good. Got up-and-down. Only missed one up-and-down, which is pretty good.  
 I don't know how many greens exactly I missed, but short game a good and putting has been good. I don't think I three-putted all day today.   
 So just trying to keep it up and hit fairways and greens. That's all I'm doing.  
  
  Q. Obviously this is going to be a really long day for a lot of people. How relieved are you to get your first round done? I guess you don't know when the second round begins, but just a little bit about the timing of all this.   
 LIZETTE SALAS: I'm just thinking of it as another U.S. Open qualifier. That's all I'm thinking about it. If we don't finish it, just come out tomorrow and I guess I can say I played on Saturday.   
 So we'll just see how it goes.  
  
  Q. You're off to a good start already. What would it mean to have a solid performance in your first Open as a professional?  
 LIZETTE SALAS: I'm not trying to think that far, you know, but it's in the back of my head. It'll be awesome. Be a good note on my resume. It will be good for the future, and that's what I'm looking forward to.  
 I've just been a pro for a month, and so far so good. Loving life.  
  
  Q. Who is caddying for you today?  
 LIZETTE SALAS: Same guy from the last Open. He won mid-am in 2000 and he's been playing the Masters.  
  
  Q. What's his name?  
 LIZETTE SALAS: Greg Puga.   
  
  Q. Can you spell that?  
 LIZETTE SALAS: G-r-e-g, P-u-g-a.  
  
  Q. Does he go on the Futures Tour with you, too, or do you just throw your bag on the cart?   
 LIZETTE SALAS: No, dad's been caddying for me. Yeah.   
  
  Q. What's your dad's first name?  
 LIZETTE SALAS: Ramon, R-a-m-o-n. I got the tour bag now, so he's like, No, no, I can't carry that. It's too heavy.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT