WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2014
Ryuji Imada
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Ryuji, great start for you.   Followed you on the back-9.   Thought you were hitting it super.   Have to be very pleased.  
RYUJI IMADA:   Yes, I was very pleased.   I hit some loose shots on the back-9 but I was able to get away with making some good putts.   So, all in all, it was a great day.  
   
 Q.   You know, I followed you a lot in your career in Atlanta when you won all four days.   Where are you in your playing career right now?   Where is your game?  
RYUJI IMADA:   My game is coming back around.   Obviously I've struggled quite a bit the last three years but I'm trying hard and I'm glad to get back out there full-time.  
   
 Q.   You're in great physical condition.   Obviously you've been keeping in good shape.  
RYUJI IMADA:   Yeah.   I got plenty of time at home so I like to do some exercises here and there and like to stay in shape.  
   
 Q.   This course, obviously, suits your game.   You like Sedgefield?  
RYUJI IMADA:   Yeah, I love it.   I first played here on the Buy.com Tour years ago.   After that, you know, I played quite a few times.   Obviously the greens are a little bit different so the greens seems a little bit different from years back, you know, from what I remember, but I played really beautifully today.  
   
 Q.   Keep it going, man.   Glad to see you playing well.  
RYUJI IMADA:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   Ryuji, 4-under par today.   Get some comments on a great start.  
RYUJI IMADA:   Got off to a pretty good day.   Made a birdie on the first hole, hit a 9-iron to about 12 feet, and also made a birdie on 3 and that kind of got me off to a good start.   
And made a bogey on 7 but I was able to get it back by making some good birdies on the back-9.   So, it was a great day.   I played beautifully.   I did hit some loose shots on the back-9 but great day.  
   
 Q.   How is the course playing?   The greens are nice and soft.   Could you go for it?  
RYUJI IMADA:   Greens are softer than what they could be but still got to be careful.   You can hit them in the rough and, you know, the greens will not hold out of the rough.   Also you can pick up some mud in the fairway.   So, little bit difficult judging mud a little bit but, yeah, all in all, it's in great shape and the greens are beautiful.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT