THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 7, 2010
Ryuji Imada
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RYUJI IMADA: My round today, let's see, I made a key par-saving putt on the first hole. Tugged my second shot left and I had a tough two-putt from the left side of the green. But I was able to make about seven-footer for a par. That got me off on the right start. From there I just drove it like I did yesterday. A lot of fairways, good shots, and my iron shots were a little bit off compared to yesterday, but was still good enough to shoot 4-under on the front.   
 On the back nine I struggled a little bit more, but I was able to make a lot of par-saving putts, and all in all, it was a great round.  
  
  Q. Are you happy with your position?  
 RYUJI IMADA: I'm very happy. I honestly didn't think 10- or 11-under was there out on this golf course coming in, but conditions very ideal for a low score. I'm glad I was able to take advantage of it.  
  
  Q. Do you think 22-under will win this tournament, or do you think things will change over the weekend?   
 RYUJI IMADA: It's hard to say. Obviously, the wind hasn't picked up and the greens are soft. I'm sure if they want to, they can trick up the pin positions too, and that's going to make a whole difference to the golf course.   
 You know, if the wind picks up a little bit, the greens are going to be firm enough where we're not going to be able to shoot at the pins as much. I don't think 22-under is going to be a winning score, but if I can get there, that will be nice.  
  
  Q. You're a Georgia Bulldog. What's it like being up on the board down here in Gator country?   
 RYUJI IMADA: Oh, it's great (laughing). You know, obviously, Georgia and Florida have a good rivalry. I've got a lot of Florida Gator friends, too. We needle each other quite a bit. So it's fun to compete against such a great school like Florida.   
 Any time we can be compared to a great school like Florida, you know we're doing something great. So it's fun; it's a fun thing to do.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT