AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 7, 2013
Ryuji Imada
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Just talk about your round. 
RYUJI IMADA:   Well, I finished well.   I made birdie on 11 and 12, which I started on 10 from about ten feet, and after that I just kept making pars.   The greens are really tough out here.   They are in good shape, a little bit bumpy, especially with the amount of play we get. 
I made the turn at 2‑under, made birdie on 3 from about five feet.   And made a bogey on 6, which is a par 5, and you know, a little bit disappointed making bogey on the par5.   Got to 7‑‑ (inaudible) ‑‑ the hole‑in‑one, we got excited about it, and I ended up making a putt from about probably 40 feet. 

Q.   After? 
RYUJI IMADA:   Obviously after him making a hole‑in‑one.   On 8, made another putt from about 30 feet, and 9, hit a pretty good tee shot but didn't take the wind like I thought it would.   And ended up making another 30 feet and made that. 

Q.   Ever had a run like that before of putting? 
RYUJI IMADA:   Obviously I have, but not ones that I can remember. 

Q.   The general consensus, the greens are tough, bumpy?
RYUJI IMADA:   Here, yes. 

Q.   How do you make it‑‑
RYUJI IMADA:   Just hit‑and‑hope.   The ones I made were fairly straight putts.   Especially on 8.   But although they were uphill putts, so that helped.   You get downhill putts, they are a little bit scary.   I missed a short one from about four feet on 6 for par.   They are a little bit tough but makeable. 

Q.   With your status, is there more of a sense of urgency to seize the moment? 
RYUJI IMADA:   I'm just trying to take it day by day.   Yeah, obviously I like to play well, but that's not any different than I was trying to play well last year or the year before.   I mean, obviously I had opportunities to play but all you can do is just give it 100 percent and move on. 

Q.   Where have you played this year so far?
RYUJI IMADA:   Sony. 

Q.   Find it frustrating on the short season and the difficulty of getting in fields? 
RYUJI IMADA:   It is what it is.   You've got to deal with it.   Everybody's doing the same thing.   Just got to play well.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT