OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 28, 2008
Ryuji Imada
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RYUJI IMADA: Strategy-wise, we actually did a little practice round yesterday on the driving range, so, you know, who is going to hit first, who is going to hit this shot and so on. So, you know, we knew beforehand what we were going to do, what shots to hit and what club to hit off the tee. I think we were well prepared. 
 Obviously Spain is playing really well, so they are going to be hard to catch. And also Sweden is really playing well, and Australia, also. They are going to be really hard to catch. But you know, we just have to play well tomorrow and just want to have a chance on Sunday. 

 Q. How much different is it from foursomes and fourballs? 
 RYUJI IMADA: It's quite a bit different. You obviously only play one ball. You never want to make any mistakes. In fourball competition, you can obviously mess up a little bit and have your partner take it up for you. But in this competition, in the water or out-of-bounds, it obviously counts. 
 So definitely play a little bit safer. Say like hole No. 9, we would hit a driver in fourball, but I decided to lay up and play as a three-shot hole. So a little bit different strategy. 

 Q. Happy to be going back to fourballs tomorrow and try to make up ground on the leaders? 
 RYUJI IMADA: Well, I think it's easier to pick up ground in this format if you play well. But obviously Spain is playing really well, and they are going to be tough. I think we have got to play really well tomorrow.

 Q. How are you playing the last two days?
 RYUJI IMADA: We are playing well. I think we are yelling well. He's been putting really well, so I think we can make a lot of birdies tomorrow. 

 Q. What's been the talk on the golf course generally in between shots, or what do you guys talk about just to keep yourself at ease? 
 RYUJI IMADA: We don't really talk on the golf course. We just talk about shots here and there. 

 Q. So it's all golf?
 RYUJI IMADA: Yeah, all business. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT