AT&T CLASSIC
May 20, 2007
Ryuji Imada
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOE CHEMYCZ:  We welcome Ryuji Imada to the interview room.  2-under-par 70 today.  Final round, final group.  Obviously the playoff didn't finish the way you wanted.  Talk about your experience of today and your feelings to this point. 
 RYUJI IMADA:  Well, I'm obviously disappointed right now, but I think the decision I made on the first playoff hole was the right one for me.  I'm not going to second guess it.  I knew I had to get it across for me to make a birdie because I knew that Zach was not going to make a par from where he was.  I knew I had to gamble even though I was in the rough. 
 I hit it good enough to get it over I think, but I just pulled it a little bit 'cause I was in the rough.  I probably could have won the tournament on 17.  I only had about a 6-footer up the hill right to left.  I missed it. 
 You know, but it was a nice week.  I stayed near the top all week, if not at the top.  I've never done that before.  I've always thought that I could win on the PGA TOUR, but I've never done it before, so I didn't know how it was going to feel.  But it was a great week.  Maybe next time I can come through. 
 JOE CHEMYCZ:  Questions. 

 Q.  That putt on 17, did you know Zach had birdied 18? 
 RYUJI IMADA:  I heard somebody in the house just down to the side yelling, "Zach, yeah, Zach."  I knew Zach had made birdie. 
 It was a long wait before I putted that putt, you know. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
RYUJI IMADA:  Let's not talk about that.  It was a missed putt.  That's it.  You know, I could have won the tournament right there but didn't, so... 

 Q.  Great chip on 18 in regulation.  Up to that point, that's the biggest shot of your career.  Talk about that chip on 18. 
 RYUJI IMADA:  On 18? 

 Q.  In regulation. 
 RYUJI IMADA:  I wouldn't say it was the biggest shot of my career.  Maybe if I'd have won (laughter).  But it didn't really change anything.  Second's second. 

 Q.  I'm curious about how a young man can leave home and family at the age of 14, go halfway around the world to go to golf school.  Did that not bring on some emotional crisis with you? 
 RYUJI IMADA:  Well, you know, when you're young, you don't really think that much.  All I wanted to do was play golf all the time.  That's what I got to do.  It was fun.  I know I'm away from my family and all, but growing up in Japan, I always watched the Masters, U.S. Opens, all those majors.  Coming to America was my dream.  Once I got here, I knew what I wanted to do:  play golf, learn English, maybe one day play on the PGA TOUR, so... 

 Q.  Did Georgia recruit you? 
 RYUJI IMADA:  Well, sort of.  I took two years off after high school.  I didn't know what I wanted to do.  I wanted to turn pro because I had a pretty good junior career.  And amateur circuit, I did all right.  I was all ready to turn pro, but my parents didn't think I was ready yet 'cause I was only 18. 
 I sort of played some amateur events.  I really wasn't doing much.  I didn't play much golf.  I was kind of bored.  I knew that I had to make a decision whether I was going to turn pro or go to college.  I knew Chris from AJGA days.  He got the job a few years ago.  Gave him a call.  He offered me a full scholarship.  I went and took a visit.  It was a great place.  I loved it from the beginning.  That's where I went. 

 Q.  What did you learn about yourself today? 
 RYUJI IMADA:  What did I learn about myself?  That's a good question.  I think I'm going to think about that tonight, yeah.  I don't really know yet. 

 Q.  You proved you could stay in there and withstand the pressure, be under the spotlight of the lead group all day. 
 RYUJI IMADA:  You know, I think winning is always hard no matter what level you are, Nationwide Tour, Mini Tours, whatever it is, it's always hard.  I haven't been in this situation in probably three years since I won the BMW.  Actually it was this week, so I had a pretty good feeling about this, too (laughter). 
 It's hard to win.  I did all right under the pressure.  I made a great putt on 15 to stay tied with Zach, made some good shots coming in.  I know I can do it; it's just a matter of putting myself in that position again.  I'm looking forward to the next opportunity. 

 Q.  What was your lie like in the playoff, in the rough? 
 RYUJI IMADA:  It was good enough for me to take a chance.  What do you want me to say?  It was good enough for me to hit a 3-wood, try to get it across. 

 Q.  If you had laid up, do you think you would have chipped it close enough for a chance for up-and-down for birdie or did that enter your mind? 
 RYUJI IMADA:  I don't want to second guess myself.  If I laid up, it was going to be a tough shot regardless because the green on 18, front left, is pretty hard.  I mean, having a 15-footer for birdie, you know, your chances are not good.  There's a chance, but I would rather have a 4- or 5-footer for birdie, get it across the lake, somewhere in the bunker.  I knew if I would have done that, I knew I could get it close.  I had to take a chance. 

 Q.  Last couple days you were sleeping with the lead.  Over the last couple days, how have your nerves been?  What have you learned about how you handle pressure? 
 RYUJI IMADA:  I handled the pressure okay. 

 Q.  Did you have fun? 
 RYUJI IMADA:  Yeah, it was a blast.  I played great all four days.  You know, there was a lot of red and black out there cheering for me.  It made it even more special. 
 What was your first question? 

 Q.  You said you were going to say what it was like to sleep on the lead. 
 RYUJI IMADA:  I slept great.  I have been sleeping about 10 or 12 hours the last two days.  These late tee times are great.  I go to bed 10 or 11 o'clock, get up 9 or 10 o'clock.  Love sleeping (laughter). 
 JOE CHEMYCZ:  Thank you.  Congratulations on a good week. 
 RYUJI IMADA:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT