U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 21, 1997
Ryuji Imada
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RYUJI IMADA:  Yeah, I've been getting off to a good start, making pars and birdies and a couple holes in the beginning, so I've been getting off to a good start.  So it's been a good week for me.

RYUJI IMADA:  Yeah.  Morning round, I got off to a good start.  I made a birdie on 2 -- made a birdie on 2 and --

RYUJI IMADA:  Or did I -- no, I didn't.  That was yesterday.  No.  Actually, I bogeyed -- I missed like a 2 1/2 foot putt to go even.  And then 4, I had a straight up-the-hill about 15 feet, and I made it to go one up -- no, two up.  And then 5, I made about another 15-foot to  go three up.  And then 6, I won with par.  So I'm four up now.  And 7 -- no, wait a minute.  I'm all messed up.


Q.  I don't think he got four up, did he?

RYUJI IMADA:  I was five up after 8.


Q.  This afternoon?


Q.  Oh, you're talking morning.

RYUJI IMADA:  Let's see.  8 --

RYUJI IMADA:  Well, I played well, solid, and I was really fortunate to win this -- win that first match.  He was trying to come back, but I just kept making pars and, you know, and then just played solid, middle of the green, fairways and the middle of the greens, so I played really solid this morning.

RYUJI IMADA:  Afternoon.  Let's see.  Well, Robert bogeyed the first hole.  And then I made a bogey on 3.  And 4, he bogeys it.  And 5, he holes a shot from 120 out from the bunker, so we go back to even.  And 8 and 9, made birdies.  10, I won with par.  11, was tied.  12, I bogeyed.  I 3-putt it from about 40 feet, I would say.  And 13, I was in the middle of the fairway, but I pulled my second shot into the bunker and I bogeyed it.  And so we're back to -- I'm one up.  On 17 -- no, not 17 -- 14, I hit a 6-iron, just about 25 feet right of the hole, and I was downhill right-to-left, and I made it to go two up.  And then on 17, I made a par to win the match.


Q.  Can you go over 8, 9 and 10, in the middle of the round, you won three in a row.  How did you win those holes?

RYUJI IMADA:  Well, I birdied 8 from about 130 in the middle of the fairway.


Q.  How far was the putt?

RYUJI IMADA:  About 7 feet.


Q.  And then 9 and 10, he drove it in trouble and pitched out? 

RYUJI IMADA:  Yeah, Robert was in trouble, but he knocked it to about 4 feet for par, but I was about 8 feet, and I made mine.


Q.  For birdie?

RYUJI IMADA:  Yeah.


Q.  Then 10?

RYUJI IMADA:  10, well, he was in trouble again, and he hit his second shot into the bunker, and I missed it to the back of the green, and I chipped it up and made a par, and he missed his par putt.


Q.  Was that about 2 1/2 feet or so?

RYUJI IMADA:  His putt?


Q.  Yeah.

RYUJI IMADA:  I would say about 6 feet, 5 1/2, 6 feet.


Q.  Ryuji, could you talk first, how long was your putt on 16, and what was going through your mind when Robert putted first and made it?

RYUJI IMADA:  Oh, well, I was kind of expecting him to make that putt, so it wasn't that hard, you know.  It wasn't that bad, you know, heartbreaking, but my putt was just uphill right-to-left, real easy putt.  So I, you know, I knew I could make it.


Q.  How far was it? 

RYUJI IMADA:  About 13 feet.


Q.  Talk about the feeling you had playing out there with his father caddying for him.

RYUJI IMADA:  Well, I really didn't care about that, you know.  Robert and I are players, and, you know, he's not playing, so -- and I know Robert real well.  We've been friends for a long time, so it was a fun match.


Q.  You tuned the caddie out, did you?

RYUJI IMADA:  What is that?


Q.  You tuned his caddie out, did you?

RYUJI IMADA:  Oh, yeah.  I really didn't -- you know, I really didn't let it get to me at all.


Q.  He's been known to have kind of a world-class stare, so he didn't have any impact?

RYUJI IMADA:  Well, he was staring some putts, but I just made it on him.


Q.  That putt at 14 was quite slick, wasn't it?

RYUJI IMADA:  Oh, yes, it was.  I just touched it, and I knew it was going to be fast because I saw it on TV yesterday, and some guys were hitting it from the right side, and it's just so fast, you know, I just sort of just touched it, and it went in.


Q.  During the quarter finals, A, how do you feel about it; B, were you expecting to get this one? 

RYUJI IMADA:  Well, I've been playing well, so, yes, I was -- I'm expecting myself to be, you know, in this position, to, you know -- I guess to do better.  I finished second at Public Links, so that was a good experience for me, and hopefully I can win a few more matches.


Q.  You played awfully well that week until the final.  I think you were probably disappointed a little bit in the way you played in the final.  Are you playing better this week?

RYUJI IMADA:  I don't know about better, but I'm playing as good.  I'm playing really solid, you know, hitting the ball the way I want to hit it, putting it well.  So it -- it's -- I hope it will be a good week for me.


Q.  It seemed like your short game was a real strength for you today; is that usually the case?

RYUJI IMADA:  Yeah, my short game is my strength.  I practice a lot, so yeah, it's my strength.


Q.  Robert said that, you know, he's going to make a decision, going to try to decide whether to go back to school or turn professional.

RYUJI IMADA:  Right.


Q.  I mean, you're a friend of his, do you have  any gut feeling of what he'll do?

RYUJI IMADA:  I really can't say anything right now.  I don't know what he'll do, but I'm sure he'll be great, you know, whatever he does, whatever he decides to do.


Q.  Does he have the physical and mental tools to be a good pro, do you think?  How do you size his game up?

RYUJI IMADA:  Well, I'm sure I can say that. As he did today, he made, you know, he made great up-and-down on 11, 12, and 16, you know.  He was just clutch, you know.  He's really good, you know.  He's got -- he's got what it takes to be great, you know.

RYUJI IMADA:  Well, that's a hard question. That's really true.  I didn't know a lot of players from Public Links.  But the players I played against, you know, I knew them all.  So I would say that the U.S. Amateur is a stronger field than the Public Links  and less players.  I mean, more players at U.S. Amateur, you know.


Q.  Would you talk about your relationship with Chris Haack and how far you go back with him.

RYUJI IMADA:  Well, he was -- he was the Vice President of AJGA and I played that Tour for five years, so I knew him real well.


Q.  How much did he keep in touch with you then these last couple years?

RYUJI IMADA:  Well, I didn't start talking to him until probably April.


Q.  Who called who?

RYUJI IMADA:  Oh, I called him.


Q.  Did you?

RYUJI IMADA:  Yeah.


Q.  And what did you say?

RYUJI IMADA:  Well, I'm interested in going to school, yeah, so --


Q.  He was interested, obviously?

RYUJI IMADA:  Yeah.


Q.  Who else did you consider seriously for college?

RYUJI IMADA:  Well, I considered going to Florida, but it just didn't work out. 


Q.  It was just those two, really?

RYUJI IMADA:  Yeah, pretty much.


Q.  Why didn't you go -- you thought about going a year ago or two years ago?

RYUJI IMADA:  Well, I really thought about turning pro after high school, but I thought, you know, just when I have the opportunity to go to college, I, you know, might as well take it, you know.  And then --


Q.  How close did you come to just turning pro?

RYUJI IMADA:  Really close, yeah.


Q.  Like you're about to sign something?

RYUJI IMADA:  No, not to sign anything, but I thought about playing on the mini tours and, you know, turning pro.


Q.  When was the last time you were really close to turning pro?

RYUJI IMADA:  I'd say about a year ago.


Q.  What stopped you then?

RYUJI IMADA:  It was just, you know, I talked to a lot of people, and I hear that, you know, college is a great, you know, competition -- college golf is a great competition.  And a lot of people say that the college, when they're in college, they have the best, you know, time in their life.  So, you know, I thought it would be nice for me to go try to go to college for  a little bit.


Q.  Was there one or two people's advice along those lines that really stuck out?

RYUJI IMADA:  Well, my coach, Rich, you know, he and I talk a lot, and he kind of -- he thought that I should go to college instead of turning pro.  You know, I'm only 20 years old.  I can enjoy my life for a few more years.


Q.  You might have a few more years.  I think you probably would.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT