JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 22, 2010
Ryuji Imada
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What a round of golf. Eight birdies, an eagle offset by one single bogey.
 RYUJI IMADA: Yeah. It was a great round. I got off to a good start on 1, made about a 15-footer and did make a bogey on 3, but I came back and made birdie on 4. And it was just really a good putting day today. 

 Q. It was a good putting day, but also a great ball-striking day. 17 of 18 greens. In fact, through 36 holes, at the halfway mark of the tournament, you've missed just three greens the entire week.
 RYUJI IMADA: Oh, don't tell me that.

 Q. Sorry, buddy. The truth doesn't hurt. It's good.
 RYUJI IMADA: Yeah. I've been striking the ball well the last two weeks, and hopefully I can keep that up.

 Q. An eagle out at the 15th?
 RYUJI IMADA: Yeah. I hit a tee shot in the right bunker and really caught a good lie, and it just went in.

 Q. You know, that helps the stats as well when you hope to have a chance at your second PGA TOUR event.
 RYUJI IMADA: Yeah. That sounds great. You know, I've been working hard to get my second PGA TOUR victory, and you know, you never know when that next chance comes around. And this looks like it, so I'm going to give it my best shot.

 Q. Could you see this round coming at all?
 RYUJI IMADA: Not really. I was playing really well last week, but I didn't expect 62.

 Q. Did it feel like last week at all with the rain showers?
 RYUJI IMADA: Well, you know, today it was raining a little bit, and I guess the round on Sunday last week helped me prepare for this round, I guess.

 Q. Have a good weekend.
 RYUJI IMADA: Thank you. 

 Q. What was working so well for you today you put up this kind of number in these conditions?
 RYUJI IMADA: I made a lot of 20-footers. You know, when you make those putts, it really helps. 
 And you know, chip-in on 15 was really good, too. So all in all it was a good round. I hit the ball well, putted well, and I didn't make any mistakes, except for No. 3, second shot.

 Q. Have you been putting well coming into today?
 RYUJI IMADA: I was putting well last week. Like I said to the Golf Channel, I was struggling for about three or four weeks, and I shot a 9-over for two days at the Georgia event and missed the cut. 
 And really had to play well last week, and I did that. And I was playing well. Securing my card has helped me relax a lot, took a lot of pressure off me.

 Q. How much fun will it be this weekend knowing you got a shot to win this thing, if you can just keep putting?
 RYUJI IMADA: Well, it's always a lot of fun when you have a chance to win on the PGA TOUR. And you know, I'm in that position right now, so hopefully I can keep that up the next two days.

 Q. Yeah, because I don't see these greens getting hard any time soon with all this rain we've had.
 RYUJI IMADA: It helps me to have softer greens, because I'm not a longer hitter. And you know, it usually helps me quite a bit.

 Q. Is there anything you took from yesterday's round that kind of helped you get that low number today?
 RYUJI IMADA: Yesterday's round? 

 Q. Yeah. Is there anything yesterday that you're able to tie to today that helped you?
 RYUJI IMADA: I mean I got to the middle of the golf course one more time, and you know, the greens are softer and there's not much rough. But green speeds were perfect.

 Q. Were you more aggressive than you are normally or do you normally play that well?
 RYUJI IMADA: Well, the greens are softer. Like I said, you can attack those pins that usually you couldn't. 

 Q. Is that the way you like to play normally if you can?
 RYUJI IMADA: I like to play softer greens, but fast.

 Q. Right. Sounds like you're in great shape, and it's looking good for you. So keep it up. Maybe we'll see you this weekend.
 RYUJI IMADA: Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT