BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 9, 2006
Quincy Douby
Anthony Farmer
Gary Waters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
 COACH GARY WATERS:  Okay, I'll make the first statement here.  Number one, you know, what I always do is give honor to God.   
 Secondly, you know, you're playing a contest like this, you really don't feel that you've completed everything, but I don't feel bad.  I'm going to tell you why.   
 We have played three games in five days.  That's NBA basketball.  These guys, I thought, played their heart out, especially in the first half of this game.  There were points in this game in the second half we were trying to do certain things and I had players tell me, "Coach, I don't have any legs."  That's hard to do, especially when you're playing the No. 2 team in the country that didn't play at all in the first part of the thing.   
 So I really don't feel bad.  I thought our kids did the best job they could under the circumstances.  After I evaluated this whole thing, I mean, if you don't get a bye in that first round, it's tough.  It's a tough, tough thing to go through this thing.   
 I think our guys played admirably.  I thought Quincy was fabulous in the first half.  He kept us in there.  I mean, without him, we're not in there and we don't have a chance.  But I think they ran out of gas.   
 Questions, please.   
  Q.  In the second half, obviously they were able to get some separation.  Were they doing anything differently or do you think your guys, as you alluded to, you might have hit a wall?   
 COACH GARY WATERS:  I think we hit a wall.  I mean, I thought we were defending pretty well in the first half on that, and I just think there was nothing left.  They outrebounded us on the glass, got the offensive rebounds, our guys just weren't up there.  You could see it, they weren't as quick to the ball as they normally are.  When I looked at that, think about it, we played Sunday on the road against a team that probably no one thought we were going to beat on the road there.  That was one.  Then we come back in and we play another team that's rated, I mean that's going to the NCAA.  We go, play another team.  Then we're playing the No. 2 team.  That's kind of hard to do.  I'm not trying to use this as an excuse.  It just dawned on me ten minutes ago.  I'm upset we lost a game, but at the same time, when I put it all together, you play three games in five days.  Put that in perspective, and you'll realize you've really played some basketball.  Our guys, you know, when you're playing only seven, eight guys, that's hard on a bunch of guys.   
  Q.  You made it look easy getting your shot off in the first half, Quincy.  How frustrating was it that you were unable to get your looks later in the game?   
 QUINCY DOUBY:  They did a better job second half, you know, double-teaming me, triple-teaming me, trying to get the ball out of my hands, you know.  They kind of went to a three guard and zone with the big guys, just in case I beat my man, so a guy could step up and get traps.  And, you know, they did a good job getting the ball out of my hands, making me take tough shots.   
  Q.  Did you have any gas in your tank at all in the second half?   
 QUINCY DOUBY:  Yeah, I thought I did.  They did a good job, like I said.  You know, first half, you know, they kind of like let me get a little one-on-one coverage and, you know, I took advantage of that, you know.  I was getting in the lane pretty easily.  I was creating for guys.   
 Second half, they just made it a lot more tougher for me.  You know, they got the ball out of my hands and I couldn't get it back in certain situations.  You know, it was just real tough.  I got to give them a lot of credit.   
  Q.  Coach, are you pretty confident your phone's going to ring at some point Sunday?  Are there going to be anxious moments there?   
 COACH GARY WATERS:  I think the phone will ring.  I mean, we're in the East.  I mean, they have to be pretty smart about that.  They want people here at Madison Square Garden.  I think these kids deserve it, more so than anything else.  I think they deserve a call.  I hope we're one of the first ones they call, and I hope they give us a home game.   
  Q.  Quincy, will that be something positive?  Is that something to be excited about?   
 QUINCY DOUBY:  Yeah, 'cause we love playing basketball, you know.  Whatever tournament we could get in, you know, we just got to play hard and, you know, just try to advance, try to win games, you know.  We're not gonna just get in it just to get in it, we're gonna try to advance and just have a good team.   
  Q.  Not ready to assess the season right now?   
 QUINCY DOUBY:  No, not at all.   
  Q.  Anthony, when did you feel that it got away from you all?  What was it?  What changed?   
 ANTHONY FARMER:  I mean, in the second half, they got out on transition and got some easy looks.  I think that got them going.  That kind of separated them in the second half.   
  Q.  The final score, did it feel like that kind of game?   
 ANTHONY FARMER:  Actually, it didn't because, you know, I thought we were right in there for a while.  It started slipping away from us.   
 But I think we played a real good game, you know.  Unfortunately, things didn't just work out.   
  Q.  With respect to teams you faced this year, are they the toughest team because of what they put out guard-wise on the team?  Are they the toughest team you faced this year?   
 ANTHONY FARMER:  Definitely.  They play hard.  Their size doesn't matter.  They get in there, rebound.  Playing with four quick guards like that, they're able to recover.  If you beat one of them, they're able to get back in front of you.  It's very difficult playing against those guys.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT