COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 21, 2015
Moritz Lampert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tell us about a 67.   That must be a very satisfying way to start the tournament.   
MORITZ LAMPERT:   I played well.   I actually played well last week, as well.   I just couldn't really score well enough.   And today I hit a lot of good iron shots and drove it well which makes it quite scorable around here in the morning with soft greens.   Quite happy with the start.  
   
 Q.   Looked like you had a lovely patch of birdie after birdie after what was an initial bogey early in the round.   
MORITZ LAMPERT:   On 11, the second hole of the day, I pulled my 5‑iron and then had a long putt and almost put on the other side of the green.   I thought I was putting straight into the grain but apparently it didn't.   
Yeah, that's the only bogey of the round and after that I played really well and didn't really get in trouble.   I'm happy.  
   
 Q.   Learnt your lesson quickly and putted well presumably from then on.   
MORITZ LAMPERT:   I gave myself a lot of chances.   I made a couple of birdies from like five, six feet, which was nice.   Almost holed out on 8, that would have been a nice hole‑in‑one.  
Yeah, putting is getting better, working on that and it's paying off so far.  
   
 Q.   How close did you come on 8?   
MORITZ LAMPERT:   I have to see it on TV, but the pitch mark was right in line with the ball.   Ball was behind the flag.   I think it hit the hole but we'll see.  
   
 Q.   Was it good fun to play alongside Dominic Foos?  
MORITZ LAMPERT:   We are from the same club, so we have known each other for quite a long time.   We played for the same team.   It's good to see him out here and hope he does well with his invites and hope to play with him again.  
   
 Q.   You had a rapid rise last season, and now you can plan and schedule a get in place.   
MORITZ LAMPERT:   That's what really helped me after my first victory on The Challenge Tour.   I couldn't really plan what tournaments I was going to play, and that's the same now.   Two years ago, I was on Tour from Tour School and I couldn't really play the big events.   
Now I can plan my events, say I play three in a row, play The Desert Swing here, go home, play Thailand.   So really it's less pressure than two years ago, because I know where I'm going to play, I know the courses.   We'll see what I can do the rest of the year.  
   
 Q.   It's exciting, isn't it?  
MORITZ LAMPERT:   Definitely.   I had a good break over Christmas, came back to Dubai for practice before Abu Dhabi, and I was really happy to be playing again.   I think that's the most important thing for me because sometimes at the end of the year, sometimes you feel like, I have to play another tournament, another tournament, another tournament.   
But at the beginning of the year, ready to go, your game might be a little rusty, but I was ready to go and seems like I'm playing well now.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT