THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
July 24, 2009
Ian Woosnam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   IAN WOOSNAM: Yeah, happy with that. It's pretty tricky out there today I would say. There's some good pins and anything better than par today obviously it's a good score. Funk obviously has finished with a two there I can see. 
 I'm happy shooting 1-under today. 

 Q. Not many out there under four today. 
 IAN WOOSNAM: No, it's a lot harder today. The cut was on 2-over today, I said could easily go to five if it stays like this. 

 Q. How difficult is it? 
 IAN WOOSNAM: Yeah, there's trickier pins today. 

 Q. And also with the wind here, the trees, you never know where it's coming from. Is it like Wentworth down the road?
 IAN WOOSNAM: Exactly, and then these little storms come in and all of a sudden it gets up and then it's down and then it's up and it's swirling. So it's really difficult to pull a club really. 

 Q. Can I just ask you one thing separately, Seve has come out in the news this morning and says he wants -- he's working to get play in The Open next year. How great of news is that for golf?
 IAN WOOSNAM: I think it's fantastic. Obviously being at St. Andrews, as well, where he had his last win, it would be a momentous ambitious for him, but it would be momentous for all of us who would like to see him back. 
 We've missed him a lot. You know, it's sad, really, that well, maybe this has been bugging him for so many years, maybe something to do with his back or whatever. We'll have to wait and see. It's just nice to be able to see him come back. It doesn't matter what he scores or whatever. It would be just nice to see him competing again. 

 Q. What about yourself when you see the likes of Watson at the top of the leaderboard; does that sort of give you relief to think that you can sort of --
 IAN WOOSNAM: Yeah, I hit the ball fantastic, and although I'm still winning a few tournaments, I have to get out there and believe in myself a little bit more, and I can hit draws on the practice round but when I get on the course I can't do it. So a lot is mentally and now I think instead of hitting balls, I've been doing that for 40 year, now I have to work on my mental side a little bit more.

 Q. Is there something that you can do to help, get one of these mind coaches or something?
 IAN WOOSNAM: Yeah, I spoke to someone this week, yesterday, and it's quite a different perspective on it a little bit, Jamil. He's a good man. I had a quick word with him and I've got nothing to prove, so why brother about it. It's like I'm going around looking at golf balls made of gold, I don't know why I feel like that, it's crazy, isn't it.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT