THE RYDER CUP MATCHES
September 23, 2006
Ian Woosnam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SCOTT CROCKETT:  All right, everyone.  Ian, thanks, as always, for coming down to join us.  A few very good first two days for your team.  Before we reflect on the singles order that's been put in front of us, just give us your thoughts on the first two days for your European Team.
CAPTAIN IAN WOOSNAM:  I think I'd have stood here a very happy man if I'd have nine and a half points, but I've got ten points now, very pleased.  Again, I think I played every single player again, and as I said yesterday, everybody's added a half a point or a point and absolutely delighted for every single one of them.

We came here playing as a team, and we're still playing as a team, and that's what we intend to play tomorrow, as a team.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Okay, Ian, thanks for those.  We'll take some questions.
Q.  The way that the team has been selected, there's a reasonable chance that Darren could sink the winning putt.  Was there any strategy in that or just the way things unfolded?
CAPTAIN IAN WOOSNAM:  I put the team how I felt it.  I put them down and that's the way I felt I was going to put them down.

I haven't thought of that situation.  In the end of the day, all I want to do is reach the magic number.
Q.  You've had some pretty successful pairings the last two days.  A lot was made about the American pairings and how important that was to success.  How important do you think the pairings are?  Sergio said it doesn't really matter who is with who; we all get along.  How much do you put into the pairings?
CAPTAIN IAN WOOSNAM:  Well, I think he's absolutely right, what Sergio says.  We've got such a strong 12 players here and you can mix and match with so many different players and that's what the beauty of it, and they are all willing to play with anybody.

Fortunately, we got it right and we are four points ahead and that shows how strong the team is.
Q.  What do you think is the difference between Sergio Garcia in regular tournaments and in the Ryder Cup?
CAPTAIN IAN WOOSNAM:  I can't answer that question.  Sergio has got a big heart.  He's just determined just to go out there and win for himself and win for the team.  You know, you could answer that question    you know when he's out on a golf tournament, he's trying his 100% and giving his whole.  But it's like José Maria Olazábal, as well; they just seem to rise to the occasion.
Q.  Why is this occasion greater?
CAPTAIN IAN WOOSNAM:  I don't know.  They just love playing in a team spirit.
Q.  If your team can finish the job tomorrow, would that top for you everything you achieved as a player?  Would it be the single highlight of your career?
CAPTAIN IAN WOOSNAM:  I think it will be.  I think I'll retire after this.  I think I'll need a year to recover anyway.

But I think it was.  You know, I've won a major tournament.  I've won many tournaments around the world, and I think this will be the most satisfactory thing I've ever done in my life because it's all right playing for yourself and there's only one person to let down, but when you're looking after 12 guys, it's a different thing altogether.
Q.  What's the difference in the pressure of being out there watching and knowing that you can't directly affect it yourself, and the pressure of, say, playing in a situation like this?
CAPTAIN IAN WOOSNAM:  Well, you know, obviously I've played in eight Ryder Cups and it's amazing how you cope with the pressure.  Different people take it different ways.  But, you know, it's amazing, standing there now on the sidelines and you think, God, I wish I wasn't doing that.  But when I was there doing it, people stood on the sidelines thinking, God, how did he do it.  You know, 20 years on, I've been there, and these guys in 20 years' time will be looking back at the same thing most probably.
Q.  Do you have any doubts at all that it could go wrong tomorrow?
CAPTAIN IAN WOOSNAM:  Yes.  The Americans have always been strong in the singles.  As I've said, and I will be talking to my players, I'm already talking to them.  We've got to take every day individually.  We start another day tomorrow.  I know we want 14 points, 14½ points, but it is a different day tomorrow.  We have to get out there and take it like that.
Q.  One trend in all four sessions, the Europeans got up in three matches in all four sessions early on, getting blue on the board.  How important was that, having that momentum and having the Americans look at all that blue?
CAPTAIN IAN WOOSNAM:  Well, I've got to say, I was talking to my friend DJ Russell who was driving with me, and I says, "How would you feel that if it was all red?"  And it's incredible, because all in blue, and I'm still worried about the games.  Because you know anything can happen very quickly in this game.  You know, I've got to say, it's just unbelievable to see we got off to a straight    off to such a good start every single time, and I think it's the first time that we've won all four sessions.
Q.  Paul Casey said you clubbed him on the 14th.
CAPTAIN IAN WOOSNAM:  Yeah, well, I spoke to    I tried to make it a point.  The players wanted to know what club everybody had hit off the par 3s.  I spoke to Paul on I think it was the 12th, I think, and I told him what all the other guys have been hitting.  They have been hitting 3 irons, and obviously Paul was so pumped up, he hit 6    it wasn't 6 iron, he hit 4 iron, and what a way to finish a match.
Q.  You should caddie.
CAPTAIN IAN WOOSNAM:  They are making a lot of money.  I should caddie for someone, make more money that way.  (Laughter.)
Q.  I'm sure you had a strategy when the singles were    when you picked them with the team.  Tom tried to guess that Monty was starting things off and that he would need Woods at No. 4 because that's about the point where he would need the inspiration.  Did you try and second guess what he was doing, for instance, or what was your strategy, please.
CAPTAIN IAN WOOSNAM:  Not really.  My strategy is Monty is a very quick player, he likes to get out there.  Sergio is pretty quick, as well, and we wanted to let them get out there and let them guys play their own game.

I'm sure Tom has gone out with his strategy, and I'm very pleased with the draw, actually.
Q.  You have quite a few players that were on that '99 team.  Does that help in any regard in having them keep their feet on the ground with regards to tomorrow?
CAPTAIN IAN WOOSNAM:  Exactly.  Every single player except for the two rookies, some of the other guys who haven't played before, but '99, hopefully we're not going to make that mistake again.
Q.  I apologize if this question's been asked, but do you believe in fate, because you need four and a half points to win the Cup outright and you have two Irishmen in there at matches 6 and 7.
CAPTAIN IAN WOOSNAM:  I've never believed in fate.  I believed in how you play and the talent, you believe in your own talent, and I believe in these guys' talent, and I'm sure that talent is going to come out and get us that 14½ points.
Q.  What was your reaction when you looked at the two sets of names together?  Did you think that's good or not as good as you expected?
CAPTAIN IAN WOOSNAM:  Well, I'm not going to get into discussion about it, but I think all of the guys have seen it and they are very happy with the draw.

I'm happy with it, and I don't know what Tom said and I don't know if he's happy with it or not.  But I'm going to go up into my team room and think it's going to be some great matches out there tomorrow.  I know we've got to win four and a half points.  I'm on 10 now, and we need four and a half points.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Ian, thanks again for your time.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT