NISSAN IRISH OPEN
May 17, 2006
Ian Woosnam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Ian, thanks as for coming in.  It won't be the last time this is said to you this year, but welcome to Ireland. But of course you're here to play this week so let's start with that.  How do you assess your own game heading into the Nissan Irish Open?
IAN WOOSNAM:  Not very highly actually.  I think if I make the cut again it will be a miracle, especially if the weather stays like this.  It doesn't suit me anymore.  I've been struggling with my back for all year really, and just don't seem to be any freedom in my golf swing and not able to play to my full potential really.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Thoughts on the course; you did make the cut last year and played all four rounds.
IAN WOOSNAM:  Obviously doesn't suit my draw too much.  No, but I haven't played so far, but I know Colin has made some more changes.  I don't know if I'll get to see them today around the golf course.  But obviously it's a long course, especially if the weather is like this, and it's going to suit the long hitters and they are going to have an advantage again.
Q.  Is your back worse in the damp?
IAN WOOSNAM:  Yeah, unfortunately it hasn't been great all year really and when it's damp it's worse.  I've just got no flexibility.  You feel like you don't want to play before you start, really.
Q.  Any chance you won't play?
IAN WOOSNAM:  I'll see, yeah, if I'm really bad tomorrow, I might not play.
Q.  Is this the kind of weather you want for the Ryder Cup?
IAN WOOSNAM:  If you're young and fit, exactly.  I think we have to be prepared for everything, really.  We don't know what the weather is going to be like.  We've just got to wait and see.  No, I think everybody would like to see a bit of sunshine for the crowds, for the television, for the golf course.  Let's just hope we have a good week, really.
Q.  Have you been over to The K Club this week?
IAN WOOSNAM:  I haven't been over to the course this week.  I was there a couple of months ago and obviously it's wintertime and they are just getting it prepared.  They made a couple of alterations on the 7th hole, which looks good.  It will carry 245 yards into the wind on the right hand side, and there's a little bit of a hill up over the top of that and they flattened it out.  That's a good change.  It makes the fairway look a little bit bigger, especially on that hole, is tough.

Other than that, they put a new bunker on the 18th, which looks fine as well.  I think it's 310 to carry it now, so it comes right into play.
Q.  At what stage will you make your contribution to the set-up?
IAN WOOSNAM:  That's all been done already.  I did that pretty well last year, at this time last year, went around with Gerry Byrne and he tried to set that up for the European Open last year.  I think, you know, he obviously didn't have the growth and the time to get it absolutely perfect but for this year, you're able to get in top shape for the Ryder Cup.
Q.  Is it good or bad that the course is not being used for the European Open?
IAN WOOSNAM:  Well, a lot of our players are playing on it many a times.  It would be nice to play on it again.  But you can understand if the weather is a bit wet through the summer, it's going to knock the course back a little bit with all the crowds and everything.  So disappointing, and there's other reasons for it really, as well.
Q.  Do you sense the warmth of welcome to you when you come to Ireland?
IAN WOOSNAM:  Yeah, I'm looking for a back door way out if I lose.  No, I came in yesterday and everyone was wishing me all the best.  The excitement is started, you can feel that.  Everybody is going to be behind a TV in Ireland, the whole country is and all of Europe is.  It's going to be an unbelievable atmosphere, first time in Ireland and it's about probably the biggest sporting event ever.  It's going to be amazing.
Q.  Would you be happy to play The Ryder Cup tomorrow with the team you have now?
IAN WOOSNAM:  Well, I've seen the comments in the paper.  You have to remember that the Americans have been qualifying for two years.  We've only been going for seven months already and we've got a lot of our big tournaments coming up now.  You know, it the guys who are not in the thing at the moment, they have a lot of points to be able to make over the next three months, and I think you'll see a different team in another three month's time.
Q.  Have you had to buy a pint for yourself this week yet?
IAN WOOSNAM:  I haven't had a pint yet, but no, I'm sure someone will buy me one this week.
Q.  Is it an advantage that with many of the big money events coming up, you are going to able to have a team who are in form?
IAN WOOSNAM:  Yeah, I think that's what's nice.  I think you're going to get    obviously what I'm looking for is people playing in form.  As I say with the three months to go, big tournaments, big money to be made, with all of the guys that play the tournaments pretty well in America except for the Open and the PGA, they are going to be qualifying for points and the World Ranking points.  So from now on, the guys have got to make a lot of points.  I think anybody    I think there's only maybe a couple of players are safe, only three players are safe on the team already.
Q.  What do you think about Michelle Wie playing on The European Tour in the European Masters?
IAN WOOSNAM:  Is she playing, is she?  I didn't know anything about it.

She's sponsored by Omega I guess, is she, and they are entitled to invite whoever they invite.  She's a fantastic little player    well, not little; she hits it by me a long way.  It will bring interest.  I think she could do well at Crans and adds a little bit of excitement to the tournament.  Unfortunately, you know, there's always going to be criticism.  It's going to take a spot away from a younger player.
Q.  Are you going to speak to the guys outside the team now?
IAN WOOSNAM:  I can't.  I think I made my point over the papers.  Some people criticized me.  Some people don't.  I think if these guys want to get on the team, it's time to start getting the opportunity playing in Europe where they are going to get to double their points.
Q.  You must be pleased then to hear players like Padraig thinking about including the French Open on his schedule?
IAN WOOSNAM:  Yeah, absolutely.  Anybody does that    Padraig has obviously realized he's got to get a few points.  In the end of the day, I want to get the players who have played in the Ryder Cup before with experience automatically in.  I don't want to be particularly left with having to pick some of the top players.
Q.  A player has gone on record saying that the Ryder Cup is only one week of the year and you shouldn't alter your schedule for it?
IAN WOOSNAM:  What week?
Q.  The Ryder Cup week
IAN WOOSNAM:  Well, that's fair enough.  He has an opinion and the end of the day, you know, if he doesn't qualify for the Ryder Cup, doesn't qualify and he misses out by a couple of points.  You know, I can't do anything about that.
Q.  Would you pick him?
IAN WOOSNAM:  I don't know who you're talking about.
Q.  Would you like me to tell you who it is?
IAN WOOSNAM:  No.  (Laughter).
Q.  Do you get the chance to enjoy being Ryder Cup captain?
IAN WOOSNAM:  Well, I think being at Sutton Coldfield last week, being back in Europe there's quite a bit to be done.  If we're going to do it    I'd like to do a press conference every week when I play and get all the interviews over and done with in the press room, so I can go out and play my own golf and give me a chance to do a little bit myself.
Q.  Is it too early to be thinking about the wild cards?
IAN WOOSNAM:  Yeah, I think you can't think about the wild cards.  Only thing I can say at the moment is every Monday I look at the Internet, see what the team is doing, imagining pairings who is going to play with who.  I speak to Peter Baker a lot.  Unfortunately I don't speak to Des a lot because he's playing in America and I want to let him get on with his game.  Des will very much be in my thoughts as we get closer and we play at the BMW in Germany.
Q.  Is it easier just to pick players in number 11 and 12 position than to make your own choice?
IAN WOOSNAM:  Well, that's easy, isn't it.  It's easy to take 11 and 12.  But I think you look at the team    I think I'll be looking at the team, and it's a pity I've got to make a decision straightaway after the tournament.  But it would be nice to work on my pairings, who I think will fit better and who I can pick because he's going to fit better in the team, because I would take that into consideration, plus someone who will be in form as well.
Q.  Will being Irish be an advantage?
IAN WOOSNAM:  Not particularly, no.
Q.  Are you prepared for criticism whoever you pick and whoever you leave out?
IAN WOOSNAM:  Well, it doesn't matter what I'm going to do.  Someone is not going to be happy.  Someone is going to be happy.  It's something I'm going to think about a lot and I've just got to think what's going to be best for the team.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Ian, many thanks.  Good luck this week.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT