U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 11, 1997
Ian Woosnam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









IAN WOOSNAM: I guess, you know, I am not used to playing over
here yet. But, I've played well at the beginning of the year,
and I've just come off two wins, so I'm looking forward to playing
this week.

LES UNGER: The last two events you played, you were second
and first, wasn't it.

IAN WOOSNAM: Yeah, I placed second in the Benson & Hedges,
and I won the Volvo PGA. Then I went off to Korea and I won --

LES UNGER: They don't have the Korea, so you have a little
momentum now.

IAN WOOSNAM: I've been playing well. Obviously, this golf course
is a different ball game all together. You have to hit the ball
very straight. And, I'm going to try to get it on the greens,
always stay below the hole. 

LES UNGER: Have you had previous experience here?

IAN WOOSNAM: No, this is the first time I've played it, and it's
one of the best golf courses I've played for a long time. The
way they set it up, I heard what Davis was saying, the fairways
are brilliant. The greens are good. If they keep them like that,
they don't get them too hard, it will be fine. But, obviously,
the greens get too dry, it's going to be, you know, unplayable,
really.

LES UNGER: Almost everybody has been asked the question about
finishing with a par 3. So we might as well throw that at you
right now.

IAN WOOSNAM: I don't think there's a problem with finishing with
par 3 at all. I like the way Davis said it was an easy hole. When
you're standing there, hitting it on the green is a different
ball game. Definitely with a 5-iron or something like that, it's
nice to finish with a par 3. I think 17 and 18 is going to be
great for the public because they can see what's going on, especially
if it's going to be tight coming down the last two holes, it's
going to be a great finish.

LES UNGER: Questions, please.


Q. Everybody has talked about long hitters, and I know that
you're not a short hitter. You can hit the ball out there, but
are we missing something here? Can we expect a short hitter to
compete well in this tournament?

IAN WOOSNAM: You know, realistically, I don't think the players
-- there's not many short hitters of the ball these days. It's
just a lot of other players hit the ball a long way. But, I think
it's, you know, if you can get it out there 260, get it on the
fairway, you're long enough to compete anyway. So I think the
round starts by hitting the ball on the fairway. If you don't
get on the fairway, you're not going to score at all. So the most
important thing to me this week is driving the golf ball.

IAN WOOSNAM: There isn't any? That's it?

LES UNGER: They just have to think a little harder here. 


Q. Ian, you won the PGA Championship (European). Your confidence
level, you appeared to be very, very focused?

IAN WOOSNAM: Yeah, I went and played there. I played very well
at Benson & Hedges the week before that, and/or the week I
played anyway. But the PGA, you know, I've always loved Wentworth,
and the course was, in a way, set up like this, very narrow fairways,
a lot of rough, and I played well there. And, hopefully I can
carry it through here. You know, you need a little confidence.
And, at the moment, I'm feeling pretty good. So, I'm looking forward
to it.

Q. Ian, your game is also based on confidence.....

IAN WOOSNAM: Yeah, when I'm feeling confident, I usually do well.
I mean, last couple few days -- well, last couple of weeks, my
driver has gone off a little bit, so that does knock your confidence
a bit, but, you know, a few good straight drives tomorrow morning
and the confidence will come back.

Q. Ian, five years ago, the European Tour was pretty much invisible
in the United States. Now, with Golf Channel, it's on every week.
And, plus they're rebroadcast again and again, so there isn't
a day when there isn't a European on TV. Have you noticed a difference
in awareness of the golf fans in the United States about what
you guys are doing over there, the quality of the events?

IAN WOOSNAM: Well, obviously, the Golf Channel is very good. Obviously,
I think the American public are more aware of different players
now, instead of being the guys who have been coming over here
for years, they're more aware of all the other players, the younger
players that play on the European Tour. So, that's good. And,
it's good for European golf to have some more worldwide recognition.


Q. Have you learned much about or have any opinions about the
proposed World Tour events? I was talking to Jim Cook from World
Series of Golf last night. He's very excited about what they're
going to do there. Have you heard much about that? If so, what
do you think about it?

IAN WOOSNAM: Yeah, I've heard there's going to be four tournaments.
I think that's a start and can obviously grow on that. And, I
think it's going to be good for all the tours if they can work
together and sort it out and start some sort of tour and get the
best players playing against each other each week so it makes
it more exciting.

Q. Ian, one of the things about a European player not winning
the Open recently is that the golf course is -- U.S. Open rough,
et cetera, et cetera, is that the main reason or is it something
else?

IAN WOOSNAM: I think it's -- I think it's something that the Europeans
don't quite do as well as the Americans is drive the ball as straight.
And, I think the likes of Colin Montgomerie does drive the ball
very straight. He's done well in this tournament. And, he should
be a force this week if he drives the ball well. I think mainly
that's one of the main reasons we haven't done that well in the
U.S. Open.

Q. Can I mention the T word, Tiger? Your thoughts on him and
do you feel sorry for him in any way, the media frenzy that surrounds
him or what are your feelings?

IAN WOOSNAM: Yeah, it's very difficult for Tiger. He's 21 years
of age, but I think he's handled himself very -- exceptionally
very well and, obviously, is going to make a few mistakes. I think
he's done a terrific job. And, he's great for the public and for
golf. And, you know, it is difficult for the lad, but he seems
like a very nice lad. And, if he continues to carry on as he is,
he's going to be a great ambassador for the game of golf.

Q. Ian, any thoughts on the 6th and 10th holes, the holes that
are converted par 5s. How does that change the way you think and
does it make the hole at all unfair?

IAN WOOSNAM: Which holes were they? 6 and --

Q. 10.

IAN WOOSNAM: 10, I thought it was a par 5. 

Q. It is.

IAN WOOSNAM: I'll have to play it again. Well, you know, the greens
are very severe, obviously made for a par 5 green. And, that is
the only criticism I'd have. The green is not quite set up for
a par 4. But, you know, it's the same for everybody. Just think
if you make a 5, it's really a par, really, so it's going to be
a lot of them on them. You have to get on with it and hope for
the best.

Q. I want to go back. You say you guys don't drive as accurately.
Why? The golf courses you don't play don't require it or what?

IAN WOOSNAM: No, I think we play in a lot more wind, you know.
I think it's -- over here, you tend to -- you don't play in so
much wind, and swings can get a little bit smoother off the tee
than what we do. We have to start a little bit lower and a little
bit harder and you just lose your rhythm a little bit.

Q. You mentioned Montgomerie. Could you talk about some of
the other European players and what you think your chances are
here.

IAN WOOSNAM: Well, we've got Lee Westwood playing this week and
he's just come off a second or a third and Darren Clarke's been
playing well. He played well in the PGA. And, as I say, if they
drive the ball straight, and these lads do hit it a long way as
well. So, if they do go straight, they could play well and win.
And, there's a lot of other good players, a young lad named Paul
McGinley, he hits the ball straight. We've got some exceptional
players. It will be a great experience for him going around a
golf course like this in the future. And, obviously, he'll play
in a lot more tournaments.

Q. Ian, much has been made about Tiger saying he's going to
use his driver two or three times around. How often will you hit
your driver?

IAN WOOSNAM: Nearly every hole. There will only be a few times
when I won't be hitting a driver. You know, as I said, you know,
some of these guys are exceptionally long. Tiger will be hitting
his 3-wood past my driver, so I have to hit my driver, and I have
to hit straight as well.

LES UNGER: Everybody happy?

IAN WOOSNAM: Thank you.

LES UNGER: Thank you very much, Ian.


End of FastScripts..... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT