U.S. SENIOR OPEN
August 13, 2016
Ian Woosnam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Ian Woosnam is even today, plus 1 for the Championship.
Q. Ian, easier said than done, scoring even par today.  How do you like yourself after this round, going into tomorrow?
IAN WOOSNAM: If the wind keeps blowing like this and I'm playing really steady -- I think only for a couple of shots yesterday, I'd have been right in there, but I'm still right in there as it is.
Yeah, if the wind blows, it suits my game.
Q. You dropped a couple, I believe, on the first nine.  What was the journey back for you to get back to 1 over?
IAN WOOSNAM: Front nine, I three-putted out on number whichever hole it was.  Then just shortly, I three-putted No. 4 and didn't have a very good chip on 5, dropped one there.
I played steady on the back nine.  I used a putter on 16 greens today or just off the green, which is good golf in that wind.
Q. Obviously, things can change, but there's one golfer under par right now.  Given the conditions for today, does that surprise you?
IAN WOOSNAM: No, there's some really tricky pins out there today just over in the front, and it's very difficult to get to the holes.  If you do get it on the green, it's difficult to two-putt as well.  I'm not surprised at the scoring.  It's a couple of shots more harder today than what it was yesterday.
Q. How was playing the 8th?  Some feel it's a par 4 and a par 5.  How do you view it?
IAN WOOSNAM: Unfortunately, they put the tee right back today.  They have an idea how strong the wind's going to be, but obviously, it got up a little bit stronger than what they thought.  I hit two of my best shots there to about 20 feet and driving a 4 iron as good as I could hit.  A lot of guys would probably be hitting 2 woods in there, most probably.
Q. With your position right now, where you're at, you're going to be among one of the final groups most likely.  How does that help maybe having that in front of you, maybe putting pressure on the final group?
IAN WOOSNAM: Exactly.  I'm due for a good putting round.  Hopefully, it will happen tomorrow.  I played the first two rounds with Miguel.  If I can get out with him again, I enjoy playing with him.  He knows I'm playing well as well, so that will be interesting.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT