WNBA MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 11, 2017
Las Vegas Aces Announcement
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ANNOUNCER: Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome President and COO of Mandalay Bay, Chuck Bowling!   
CHUCK BOWLING: Well, good afternoon, thank you so much for joining us.  Again, I am Chuck Bowling, Chief Operating Officer at Mandalay Bay.  On behalf of our entire team, let me welcome you to our home, and to tell you how excited that you're all here with us today.   
It's an exciting time in Las Vegas as we have watched the city grow and mature as a professional sports market.  And we couldn't be more proud that Mandalay Bay will be the home to the city's very first professional women's franchise.  On behalf of our team, our family here at Mandalay Bay, the entire MGM Resorts family, we look forward to a long and successful partnership with the WNBA, and we can't wait to tip off in the spring.   
It is now my pleasure to introduce the women who will expertly lead us through today's program.  You may recognize her from her work at ESPN, where she works and covers college and WNBA basketball.  An expert in the sport, and most importantly an ambassador for the sport and for many student-athletes, I am honored to introduce LaChina Robinson to be today's emcee.   
LaChina?  Welcome.  Glad to have you.   
LaCHINA ROBINSON: Thank you, thank you.  And welcome, everyone.  Welcome to the House of Blues at Mandalay Bay, and welcome to all the WNBA fans and everyone that's watching us around the world on NBA TV, WNBA.com, and the WNBA App.   
Today is a very exciting day, both for the WNBA as well as the City of Las Vegas.  The WNBA is the most successful professional women's sports league in the world, and the players, well, they're the best at what they do.  Las Vegas will have an opportunity to see this firsthand in 2018 as the WNBA embarks on their 22nd season.   
I am so honored to be here with you today on this momentous occasion as the WNBA celebrates this move of its team to Vegas, and the team has some very special and exciting announcements for all of us.   
But first, I would like to recognize some very important people that are here with us in the audience.  Centennial High School Bulldogs, where are you at?  As well as the Spring Valley High School Grizzlies.   
It really warms my heart to look out in the crowd and see the children, because I remember the impact that the WNBA had on me back in 1997 when it began.  I remember Lisa Leslie and Rebecca Lobo and Sheryl Swoopes.  They totally transformed what I thought I could be in my future, and I know that the women that play here will have the same impact on the community.   
I would also like to acknowledge a member of the MGM Resorts International Board of Directors, Rose McKinney-James, and the Chairman and CEO of MGM Resorts, Jim Murren.   
We also have with us in the audience, WNBA Chief Operating Officer, Jay Parry, and WNBA Senior Vice President of League Operations, Ann Rodriguez.   
But [everyone] knows that we can't have a game without the players.  Well, we have three amazing women with us on hand.  First starting with WNBA legend, Erin Thorn, and two players that we know will quickly become fan favorites here in Vegas because of their play on the court, but also for the people that they are in the community.  Please join me in welcoming teammates, Kayla Alexander and Moriah Jefferson.   
Additionally, joining us today we have other tremendous professional athletes in the audience, including Vegas Golden Knights players, Oscar Dansk, Reid Duke, and Brad Hunt.   
We also have a very popular local PGA player, Scott Piercy.  We've got the NBA in the building as well.  Please join me in welcoming Las Vegas resident and former NBA player, Lester Conner who is with us today.  Thank you for being here, Lester.   
Now, join me in welcoming the participants on our stage.  Very far left here, President of Basketball Operations and Head Coach of your Las Vegas WNBA team, Bill Laimbeer; the President of MGM Resorts International, Bill Hornbuckle; Chairman of the Board of Clark County Commissioners, Steve Sisolak; Mayor of the city of Las Vegas, Carolyn Goodman; and WNBA President, Lisa Borders who will tip off the festivities today.   
But, before we get started, let's take a look at what the WNBA is all about.   
[Video playing]   
LISA BORDERS: Wow.  Does that not look like fun?   
Somebody work with me.  Does that not look like fun?  We're getting ready to have some fun in Vegas.  Let me thank all of you all for being here.  I want to thank LaChina.  Isn't she amazing?  Give her some love.   
This is an extraordinary day for the WNBA and certainly for our newest team, our baby team.  We're so grateful to the MGM family, but it's an exciting day for all of us, not just the team, not just MGM, but for all of you.  So thank you all for being here.  You could have been anywhere today at this appointed hour.  You decided to be here, and we need to say thank you for that.   
Let me also say thank you to a couple of folks, Jim Murren, who you heard is the CEO and Chairman of MGM, and Bill Hornbuckle, the President of MGM.  These two men are extraordinary, in case you didn't know.  They are the leaders of MGM, but they have a whole group of colleagues who work with them.  But let me start first and foremost by saying thank you to you, Jim, and also to Bill, for your unyielding commitment and dedication to bringing this team to Vegas.  Somebody say Amen.   
Did you hear me?  Somebody say Amen.   
We appreciate them, and we appreciate the entire MGM family, because of their leadership and hard work, and the entire MGM team, all of you will have the opportunity to experience the WNBA and this team first among equals here in your home market.   
The MGM family, the MGM values, integrity, inclusion, excellence, and team work is in clear alignment with the WNBA.  You all live here, so you already knew that, right?  Come on, people, work with me.  You knew that.   
Let me just tell you, it is coming to life every day here at the MGM family, but it will come to life also in our new team.   
Now LaChina told you there were two players here that will be on this team.  Y'all want to see them again?  You want to see them again.  Kayla Alexander, Moriah Jefferson, stand up.  Let everybody see you.  Give them some love, y'all.   
Now, Kayla and Moriah, there are two high school teams here, Centennial, and -- right?  That's all you've got?  Centennial and --   
TEAM: Spring Valley.   
LISA BORDERS: Right.  Would you like some pointers from these young ladies, because you are the future of the W, right?  Ladies.   
Jim, they're not working with me.   
Ladies, this is Centennial and?   
TEAM: Spring Valley.   
LISA BORDERS: All right, Spring Valley and --   
TEAM: Centennial!   
LISA BORDERS: I'm still not happy.  Let's try this just one more time.  We've got who is in the front?   
TEAM: Centennial.   
LISA BORDERS: Who else?   
TEAM: Spring Valley!   
LISA BORDERS: Oh, Moriah and Kayla, you've got your work cut out for you.   
So, welcome to you all.  We're delighted that you're here as well.  We look to you as the future.  Moriah and Kayla are playing today along with 142 of their league sisters.  But we look forward to the path that they are cutting, that you come right behind them and continue to shine the light on women in the WNBA.  Are you with me?   
TEAM: Yes.   
LISA BORDERS: Are you with me?   
TEAM: Yes!   
LISA BORDERS: All right.  That's excellent.  So we are excited for you.  You are our future.  MGM is our public partner, our private corporation partner, but we also have public sector partners.  Madam Mayor, Mayor [Carolyn] Goodman, girl mayor.  Somebody say Amen.  Love her.   
Not yet, not yet.  Give me one more minute.   
MAYOR GOODMAN: Are you ready for me or do I sit down?   
LISA BORDERS: Sit down for one more moment.  We've got to thank the chairman too.  Mr. Chairman [Steve] Sisolak, can we thank him too?  We've got the county and the city represented here.   
Now the team has got some things they want to tell you in just a moment, but let me just say, on behalf of the WNBA, all the other teams, all the other sisters to Moriah and Kayla, and all our fans around the globe, welcome to the WNBA family.  We're excited to have you join us.  We look forward to seeing your team play, and we look forward to seeing all of the exciting things that the MGM family is going to bring to the league.   
Somebody say Amen.  Thank you.   
LaCHINA ROBINSON: I'll tell you, I've known Lisa for a very long time, and your life will be a lot easier if you just do what she asks you to do.  I've definitely been spoiled because I've had the privilege of knowing Lisa long before she became the WNBA President.  She was part of a group that helped bring the WNBA to Atlanta, which is my city.  So we're grateful for those efforts, but it didn't stop there.   
She was a fan that showed up at every game, cheering just as loud and encouraging the women right there on the front row.  Now she's in a launch position for the league and doing an outstanding job.  So thank you, Lisa.   
Now, it's your turn, Mayor.  Now we will hear from Carolyn Goodman who has served as the Las Vegas mayor since 2011, Mayor Goodman.   
MAYOR GOODMAN: Thank you.  And you're right, Mr. Sisolak, I don't take orders from anybody except my husband on occasion.  But when Lisa says sit down, I sat down.  I tell you, ladies, you better listen to her, too.   
But the reality is when I first played basketball it was half court, all the way through high school and college, so you can imagine.  You weren't even a glimpse in your mom's eye.   
So anyway, hello, everyone, and it's so wonderful to be here today to celebrate with each of you.  It's a remarkable occasion.  These truly are the best of times to be in Las Vegas, because there is so much all of us believe in, which is sports, sports, sports.  To celebrate the list of professional sports teams that now call Las Vegas home.  You guys have got a great record going there.  So proud of you.  Your training desert rats how to like the ice.   
Today is very special, and we recognize the coming together of the world renowned Las Vegas entertainment capital of the world, and the most successful women's professional sports league in the world.  You are a lucky lady.  I must say, however, I'm not all together surprised welcoming the WNBA to Las Vegas is a natural progression of our destination related to basketball.   
Las Vegas has hosted numbers of popular, professional basketball exhibition games as you know, and of course, the NBA summer League's presence has always been a source of great pride to us.  Today Las Vegas counts itself among the ranks of other world class cities, which have WNBA home teams.  Cities like, as LaChina said, Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, but trust me, there is nothing like Vegas.   
A milestone that has professional and personal significance for me, because before my term of office, my husband was mayor for 12 years.  So adding up what I have put in, that's 18 years of loud screaming from our family, "bring us professional sports," and we had nothing until NASCAR first came to us.   
But basketball has always been our passion, and in particular, women's passion and basketball has been mine.  Neither of us needed any convincing that Las Vegas would one day be home to multiple professional sports franchises, or that the benefits would accrue in our community and the tourism industry as a result.   
It's been, for both Oscar and me, an honor to see that this progress has been made.  And I can't think of a more outstanding professional sports league partner than the WNBA, which is known for its charitable works and philanthropic activities in communities all around our country.   
Through the WNBA Cares program, the league is a force for social change, diversity and inclusion, and, obviously, empowerment.   
As someone who has worked for decades to improve educational outcomes in Nevada, including within our inner city areas where much attention is still needed.  I know how much of an impact good deeds of groups like the WNBA can be.  I've witnessed firsthand how effective a tool athletics, health, wellness can be for building in our youth a sense of confidence and a hope in the future.   
So I am so thankful to welcome to Las Vegas a community partner with such a great reputation and uplifting effort for communities, and improving lives, particularly the lives of young children.  What is possible through the [WNBA's] efforts to build confidence in our young people and empower young women is evidenced in the fact that more than 100 million women and girls play basketball worldwide.  That's 100 million women and girls playing basketball.  That figure includes young women who live right here in Las Vegas, eagerly awaiting opportunities to see our home team play, who likely dream one day of being professionals themselves.   
I know the WNBA's presence in Las Vegas will be a source of strength, inspiration, and pride for all of these young women, and that the possibilities for their lives will be better because this team now calls Las Vegas home.   
I look forward to supporting the WNBA as your presence in our community grows and recommend MGM Resorts International -- I didn't recommend them, I commend them.  I commend the MGM Resorts International for bringing professional basketball to Las Vegas and especially the WNBA.   
And I'm reminded of Lisa Borders' comment, when the news of the relocation was announced.  She said that bringing the WNBA to Las Vegas for them and for us is a match made in heaven, and I can assure you, as mayor of the great city of Las Vegas, it's known worldwide just the name, it is a match made in heaven.  Thank you, and good luck!   
LaCHINA ROBINSON: Thank you so much, Mayor. Now join me in welcoming Clark County Commissioner, Steve Sisolak to the podium.  Steve?   
STEVE SISOLAK: Thank you.  It is such a pleasure and honor to be here today.  You could not be in a better town if you're a sports fan than Las Vegas right now.  We've got so much going on.  It's an incredible town to live in, and we appreciate the efforts that MGM has made, and I've got some things to say about that in this regard.   
I'm thrilled to welcome the WNBA to Las Vegas, and couldn't be more proud of the team's home court which will be the Mandalay Bay Event Center, located in the heart of County Commission District A, which is the one I represent, so I take personal pride in that.   
For the legion of basketball fans throughout our community, and I count myself among those ranks, having our very own WNBA team is simply astonishing and calls for much celebration.  This is something we could not have imagined just a few years ago.   
As I prepare for today's press conference, I couldn't help but reflect on how significant of an achievement it is for Las Vegas to have a home team in the WNBA.   
When news broke, I thought of the memories that will be made on this home court.  The camaraderie that we'll build throughout this great community in support of the team and the years of hard work by so many dedicated people to build lasting partnerships with professional sports leagues.   
The dedication and tenacity of many forward-thinking community leaders, far too many to mention, including our past two mayors, that changed the hearts and minds with respect to how Las Vegas is viewed by the professional sports world, and that laid the ground work for a partnership that many once thought would be impossible.   
It is one of those inspiring partnerships that we commemorate today in addition to the bond that now exists between the WNBA and Las Vegas community.  A bond that will continue to grow and strengthen in the years to come.   
That bond was made possible in part by MGM Resorts International's persistence in elevating Las Vegas' position in the sports and entertainment industries.  Another example of MGM's stellar leadership and enduring confidence in Las Vegas and our community.   
It's been a privilege to observe how this community's goals have evolved from aspiration to achievement in the world of professional sports.   
We have three members here of the NHL team, the Vegas Golden Knights, making its presence felt on the ice with every game they play.  By far the most successful expansion team in the NHL.  By the way, they have a four-game winning streak going into tomorrow night.  Congratulations, gentlemen.  They have clearly made themselves a part of this community.   
And a home football team coming, Las Vegas Raiders as well as the Las Vegas Lights FC professional soccer team.  It is truly a dream come true for sports fans in Las Vegas.   
To the WNBA, we offer our sincerest gratitude for making this latest achievement possible.  But as any professional athlete or coach will tell you, behind all the exciting announcements and fantastic achievements is what matters most.  The fans.  We have an incredible fan base.  I'm grateful for the local basketball fans that will now have the opportunity to cheer for a home team, the WNBA.  And that the community has yet another point of strength and pride.  There is no fan like a Las Vegas fan, and I think some of our athletes here will attest to that.   
There will be no WNBA team like our home team, comprised of many talented athletes and coaching staff, and I'm sure will experience much adoration, respect, and success one day.  I expect to see some of these young ladies in the first rows here playing one day for the future of this WNBA team.   
I want to thank Lisa Borders and her team at the WNBA.  The WNBA Board of Directors, Board of Governors and Bill Hornbuckle and his wonderful team at the MGM Resorts International, and Mr. Jim Murren for making a dream reality for the basketball fans throughout the valley.   
On behalf of the Clark County Board of Commissioners and the citizens of this community, I'm honored to welcome the WNBA to Las Vegas, and look forward to many lasting memories together.  I want to thank the MGM Resorts International for once again leading our community forward with their endeavors and contributions to this community.   
Thank you very much MGM, and welcome WNBA to Las Vegas.   
LaCHINA ROBINSON: Thank you so much, Commissioner.  It's a privilege to now invite to the podium the man who helped make all of this possible, MGM Resorts International President, Bill Hornbuckle.   
BILL HORNBUCKLE: Thank you, LaChina.  I'm going to bring this mic way down here.  Holy schmolly, the land of giants.   
Most notably, Bill [Laimbeer], Moriah, and Kayla, welcome to our family.  You may not know it, but you now join 77,000 other men and women, but we are truly a family, and hopefully you'll find out over the next several months and ensuing years that MGM Resorts is something special, and it's an amazing place to be and ultimately to make a living and to work.  To say we're excited on behalf of our company would be an understatement.  For us to be joined with this amazing group is also an honor.   
First to recognize Mayor Goodman and Commissioner Sisolak, it's great to see you both here, and I thank you for that, and I do mean that.   
Lisa, I can tell this is going to be a lot of fun, welcome on behalf of our family as well.  Thank you for your attendance today.   
To our host today, Chuck Bowling and his entire team who always does an amazing job.  Thank you, Chuck.   
And our border of directors, Rose McKinney-James as well, thank you for your attendance and your undying support.  And really, I need to mention this, because I work for him so it's always a good career move to acknowledge the boss, Jim.   
Jim has been behind this initiative from day one.  When we doubted it, Jim said no, this is good.  This is not only going to be good, this is going to be great because MGM Resorts, and MGM and Mandalay can do something very unique and special with this.   
So, Jim, thank you for your vision on all of this.   
I also think it's fair to say that the entertainment capital of the world is quickly becoming, without a doubt, the sports capital of the world.  It's something we've all been working on for some time.  We all recognize what entertainment brings to us, but the other aspect wasn't quite there.  If you think back now what's been accomplished over the years, it's been truly quite astonishing.   
To tell the story, you have to go back a little bit.  Jim and I started at MGM in 1998 together, and we quickly had a vision of the Grand Garden, while exceptional, could be bigger, could be better, could be expanded, and could some day -- I didn't think it would take this damn long -- but some day could invite professional sports to our town.   
Finally between what's happened at T-Mobile Arena, which by the way got recognized as Billboard's number one arena in the world this year!  And our incredible partnership with AEG, we stand here today inviting and welcoming the WNBA.  Obviously, what Mr. [Vegas Golden Knights Owner Bill] Foley has done, and you fine gentlemen have done for this community, I want to thank you with all of our hearts.  I've been in this town 14 years starved for that kind of entertainment, so thank you for all that you do.   
In 2018, we're going to welcome the Las Vegas Lights, an expansion team for the United Soccer League.  Another interesting and exciting venue ultimately to go up in Summerlin -- no, that's a baseball team that's going to ultimately end up in Summerlin, so all exciting activities that surround us.  And I know many of you have been following this, but it would go without remiss, and I know several of their management and players are here today, the NFL and the Oakland Raiders are coming.  They're coming soon.   
In October of 2020, we'll welcome them to this community.  We want to thank them for their attendance, and like everyone, their belief in this community.   
I want to give tremendous credit to Mark Davis, Mark Badain, the governor [Brian Sandoval], and the Southern Nevada Infrastructure Tourism Commission that you two fine folks served on, as well as the commission itself.  We're really, really excited to yet bring another -- not only exciting team and sport, but an amazing venue that will truly put us on a world class stage.   
What really brings us here today, as you now know, is the WNBA.  It's been proven that this community can and will rally behind a sports franchise, and that they're hungry for more.  I can remember back in '91 when the Rebels were smoking.  I think some of us were here,  18,000 people showed up to watch that team.  Here we are 20 years later with 20,000 people showing up to watch the amazing escapades of the Golden Knights, and I believe we'll do the same come next spring right here at Mandalay Bay.   
It's been proven that this community can and will rally behind a sports franchise, and we're hungry for more.  We've given them more year after year.  Our relationship with the NBA has grown over the years.  And we're partners, if you don't know, with the Golden State Warriors, with the Lakers, the Memphis Grizzlies, the Washington Wizards.  We host the NBA Summer League in Las Vegas annually, which is continuing to grow, and we host preseason exhibition games that draw record crowds and sellouts.   
We also hosted USA Basketball for the last Olympics, and we hope to do so again in the near future.   
We also host the PAC-12 Championship tournament that draws record crowds and becomes an event that people can plan their schedule around.  We also play the Play4Kay Women's Basketball Tournament, we also hosted this past Thanksgiving weekend, and the list truly becomes endless.   
Then we're going to introduce to, this team that runs the WNBA.  You've all met Lisa.  She is a dynamic dynamo.  She was not going to take no for an answer.  That part I do remember.  We can't tell you how impressed we've been with the whole organization and how they've helped us.   
If you think about this, we run hotels.  We run resorts.  We don't run sports franchises.  But she has convinced us with their help, which has been exceptional, we will get through this, we will succeed, and ultimately we'll lead this league.  Won't we, Bill?  Good answer, Bill.  Good answer.   
We also share, as Lisa mentioned, significant values.  The WNBA and MGM Resorts are both committed to bettering the communities we serve and operate and not in a superficial fashion.  We really dig in, we engage, we identify where we can make a difference, and we stay, and we succeed.  In every community where the WNBA has a team, this is a focus for them.  One of the first things that comes up in every conversation we've had about how we can work together.  Both our organizations are committed to the diversity and inclusion, and know that we are best when we are a collection of people from different backgrounds and different views, all with the same objective, to do good and to do right.  We so look forward to welcoming a team here in 2018 and to introduce them to our community.   
To our schools, some of which are here today, thank you all, ladies, and to the coaches who brought them, and to our after school clubs.  We have the girls basketball teams, as we mentioned earlier today from Centennial and Spring Valley, and we want to welcome them and thank them for coming.  This is going to be fun.  This is going to be good.  I promise.   
We also have at MGM, three amazing arenas in the company.  As all of you know have hosted major events over the world.  When we toured though with the WNBA group, we all agreed that the Mandalay Bay Event Center, Chuck's home, would lend itself ideally to being the host hotel for our new team.  The venue is beautiful.  It's intimate.  It offers great sight lines.  And Mandalay Bay is a tremendous property for families to come and visit.   
We're also going to dedicate $10 million to refresh the arena to make it worthy of your fine sport and these wonderful ladies.  That's something we're excited to do, and we'll have it ready for the season.   
Chuck is also open and excited to welcome the new team and fans from all over who will make Mandalay Bay their home in Las Vegas.  Now for those of you here who are fans and anxious to be connected to the team immediately, we start taking deposits today for season tickets.  We have tickets starting at $20 per game, center court seats starting at $65 per game, and we'll have some unique seating options with VIP floor tables.  This is Las Vegas, and we have to pick up on that.  We know how to sell those, I promise you.   
All of you, anyone with a $100 bill today can go right outside to those tables and sign up for season tickets today.   
So we have a city hungry for professional sports and jumping to support our teams with a tremendous amount of energy.  We're a company committed to attracting new events, giving visitors around the globe reasons to come to Las Vegas.  We want to work with people we like who share our values, our mission, and I think we've found them.   
So when Lisa Borders came to tell us the WNBA San Antonio Stars were up for sale and needed a new home, it didn't take long for Jim to say we're in, and we all said yes, sir.   
On top of all of that, we were able to attract someone who was a legend.  An All-Star when he played in the NBA, and a legend coach in the WNBA having won three championships to come to Las Vegas and help us build this franchise.   
When Bill Laimbeer said yes, and I had no doubt we were on to something very, very special.  Under Bill's leadership we'll build a team and an organization for us in the Las Vegas community, and we'll make it proud, and the world will take notice of.  We can't wait to introduce our team to all of you next year.  I know he's a man of few words, so I promise he will be briefer than I am.  Then I'm going to come back up and do a reveal of the name and know the name, though it's not the Stars.  But we'll reveal that name in a moment.   
So without further adieu, Bill, if you could come up and take the stage.   
BILL LAIMBEER: My job is to say a little bit, not a lot a bit and get to the announcements.   
But I will say a couple months ago I got a call from Jim saying by the way, we're going to buy this franchise.  I was like, really?  Wow.  He said we want you to be a part of it.  And I said, really?  Wow.  So I said, okay, let me think about it.  I talked to my wife, Chris, she's in the audience over here.  Hold your hand up, Chris.  We talked to each other and said it's going to be a lot of work.  But at the same time, I was ready for a new challenge.  It was time to do something special, and this is what this is.  So I'm really looking forward to it.   
It surprises me to no end every day the commitment MGM has, the resources that MGM has.  They have some unbelievably talented people working very hard right now.  I see it every day.  I mean, it's phenomenal all that's getting accomplished in the launch of this, and to go forward it's really fun to be a part of.   
Today's kickoff day, now the pressure is on.  We've got to get moving at light speed, selling tickets, and sponsors, and the arena, and we've got to get some players.  But one of the good things is we get the first pick in the draft this year.  We won the Lottery.   
We're a young team, and that's going to make us even younger.  We have number one, and number 13, I expect both players to make the team.  It's going to be a work in progress, but we're very excited, after the initial shock of what do you mean we're moving?  We're going to Las Vegas?  As time goes along and they see the commitment also, they've been experiencing it the last couple days here, everybody's excited and the word of mouth will get around amongst the players.  I can't use the word enough, the commitment MGM has toward this project is phenomenal.   
Make no mistake, the WNBA from way back when -- I've been in this business now for 15 years.  That's a long time.  Longer than any of the people that work for the WNBA.  It's built on the community.  The players take great pride that they have this franchise in the United States to play in front of their family and friends.  They realize how important their involvement in the community is, and they take it to heart.  They're out there all the time.  You'll be surprised how many appearances they do out there.   
Across the board we're going to have a nice community outreach program.  We're going to design basketball specific at times, and regular community at times.  That's what they want to do.  They know the future of this league is built on their interaction with the community.  You'll see a lot of them.  Thank you for coming out today.   
My job is to go out and get a winning and exciting team.  I embark upon that every day as my mind is going a thousand miles an hour on how to get there.  I hope you'll be supportive of us.  My job is to get out of the way so we can unveil our logo and our team name.  So thank you all for coming out today.   
BILL HORNBUCKLE: We're about to unveil the name.  I promise.  But I first want to take a second to tell you how we got here.  We all, Jim, especially, had a great passion for making certain that we find the right name and the right look to present our team.  MGM Resorts and ultimately Las Vegas.  We spent a lot of time talking to Lisa and the NBA, and to the agency behind a number of brands we see in the NBA and the WNBA, and we learned a lot from this process.  We learned a great deal.  Some things we can actually utilize in our core business.   
It was very important for us to create a brand that the players would be proud of.  One that would represent them as elite athletes that they are.  A brand with an immediate connection to Las Vegas, and a brand that spoke of excellence, hard work, of strength, and that women at the top of their game would be proud to wear on their jerseys.   
We'd like to thank our creative and talented friends here at the Cirque du soleil, Michael Jackson One show for helping us to find a bit of a Vegas way, as always, to help share the name.  Without further adieu, please run the tape.   
[Video playing]   
LaCHINA ROBINSON: Wow.  How amazing was that?  Congratulations to the Las Vegas Aces, and welcome to the WNBA family.  Thank you to everyone that was a part of this announcement.  It's been a beautiful day.  This concludes our program.   
We will now ask all of our participants to come back on stage for some photo opportunities.  Following the photos, we will invite media to the stage for select one-on-one interviews with executives and one final, but very important note, we are so excited to have all of you as a part of the WNBA family.  To become official you've got an opportunity today to purchase tickets to see your Las Vegas WNBA team.  We have a team set up right outside of here where you can purchase tickets.  We also have a website, www.AXS.com, trust me, you will not want to miss this opportunity to see the most amazing women athletes in the world.   
Thank you all for coming.  Please join us in the back for refreshments.  Have a great day.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT