HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 26, 2016
Lin Yuxin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Firstly, happy birthday yesterday, and what a birthday present.  
XI YU LIN: Yeah, I still couldn't believe it, but yeah, it's been really good just today, and lots of amazing things happened.   
 Q.  Well, one of the most amazing, the shot on 16, and it went past the flag, and you didn't know it had actually gone in the hole?  
XI YU LIN: No, I didn't, because I saw my ball land on the slope, and I saw it start coming back, and I thought, hmm, it's going to be close to the pin, and I hear my caddie saying, "Let's just get in the hole."  I'm like, no way.  Then when I picked the tee up and walked to the back, and I really just couldn't believe it.   
 Q.  What did you think when you got to the green and there was one ball short?  
XI YU LIN: Well, when we were walking on the green, and Ariya said, if you still not believe your ball is in, you've got to hit another one, because you can't find your ball.  No, maybe it's just really close to the hole, and so I walked to the hole, I seen a ball in the hole, and that's my ball.  I finally believed that it really happened.   
 Q.  We always thought that it was a terrible tough hole.  Nobody has ever won the Honda, and you are the first player to take away the car.  
XI YU LIN: Oh, that's my honor.  It's funny, yesterday I hit the same club, and my ball finished, I think, like a yard from the hole today, so I was thinking, okay, tomorrow it's going to be the same strategy for me, so I just hit exactly the same club, the same way to hit it, and it's the same way, so it did go in.  It worked.   
 Q.  Is that your first hole-in-one?  
XI YU LIN: No, I had one last year in Canadian Open.  It was my first one, first official hole-in-one in a tournament, so this will be the second.   
 Q.  And also, importantly, you have put yourself a long way up the leaderboard.  You're in good shape.  
XI YU LIN: I haven't checked the leaderboard yet, but yeah, I've been hitting really good for two days.  I had two eagles yesterday and another eagle, like hole-in-one today, so I feel quite comfortable with my game.  I know it's a tough green out there, so maybe just focus more on the putting and hopefully I can do even better on the weekend.   
 Q.  Do you have a car right now?  Do you own a car?  
XI YU LIN: No.   
 Q.  Do you have your license?  
XI YU LIN: I just passed the driving test last year in America, but I don't have a license in China yet.   
 Q.  So you have a license in America?  
XI YU LIN: Yes.   
 Q.  But no car?  
XI YU LIN: No.   
 Q.  So this has to be exciting?  
XI YU LIN: Yes.   
 Q.  Did you get a good look at the car on the 16th tee or tomorrow you're going to go in and take a look?  
XI YU LIN: I'm going to go have a look tomorrow.  When I walked off the tee, I just didn't believe.  I was thinking they were kidding, so I didn't really look at the car, but it's funny, like then on the 17th hole I see the group behind coming in, and I was thinking, okay, don't touch my car, that's my car.   
 Q.  You had a birthday yesterday; you went out to dinner with some players and some caddies.  This has to be the best present ever.  Did you get any presents other than the car?  
XI YU LIN: Yeah, I got a present from my caddie, and I spent a really good time last night with all my friends.  My parents are not here, but I think my mom already showed me what she got for me.   
 Q.  What was it?  
XI YU LIN: It's a bear head cover, because my puppy, he loves bears, so that's why now I've got all bears in my bags.   
 Q.  Because your dog loves bears?  
XI YU LIN: Yeah.   
 Q.  You're hopefully going to get the car and get it to America and keep it?  
XI YU LIN: I'm going to have to think about what I'm going to do because it's never happened to me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT