BLUE BAY LPGA
October 29, 2015
Lin Yuxin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








XI YU LIN: I'm pretty happy and satisfied with my performance today.  A little bit unexpected, as well.  From the beginning, we know that the course itself, it does have a degree of difficulty there but I think I've been very patient throughout the whole day.  It's not easy for me not to have my bogey at all today and strategy-wise, I was very good, as well, and also, I'm happy with that.  I placed the ball in a good position very well.
MEGHAN FLANAGAN: Did you feel any extra pressure this week coming back to China?  It's our Tour's only stop in China this year and you've had a lot of extra obligations and things like that.  Have you been super busy leading up until today?
XI YU LIN: Actually it's always nice for me to play in my hometown, because last time I won an LET tournament here, so I like Hainan a lot.  Also my mom is here with me this week, so I don't really feel much pressure, because I've been doing pretty good these couple weeks.  And my game's pretty good, as well.
So just tell myself, just enjoy every putt and enjoy all the good things here, the good condition, good hotel, good food, everything.
MEGHAN FLANAGAN: What do you think was the biggest challenge out on the course today?  Was it the wind?  Was it the pin positions?  Because there weren't very many low scores other than a few.
XI YU LIN: I think the approach shots will be the hardest part because the greens are pretty firm.  Yes, some of the pin positions pretty hard.  I had to play really smart and also I think there's a couple holes, pretty windy today.  So just need to be really careful.
MEGHAN FLANAGAN: You tied for sixth last week and you've been playing very well.  What about your game that's been very key to your good finishes and your good play recently?
XI YU LIN: I would say, maybe about my putting, because I work with my coach a couple days before I came to Malaysia, so we work on my putting and on my rhythm of my swing a little bit.  But I think the biggest improvement would be my putting because when I putt well, then I'm not going to feel that pressure when I'm chipping or when I hit it on the green.  So I think my putter really helped me a lot.
Q. Is Sanya your lucky spot?
XI YU LIN: I don't know really how to explain it.  I've been doing very well on this island and in this area, also, when I actually had a victory for the first time on The European Tour.
And maybe it's due to three factors that I could possibly do well here:  The weather is very similar to Guangzhou, my hometown.  And two, the course is very similar to in Guangzhou where I usually get my training done.  And thirdly, maybe there is some uncertain factors which I myself can't even explain right now.
But obviously, I feel very comfortable being here.  I feel very, very relaxed being on this island and also in the area of Sanya.
Q. Basically we are talking about the situation in the area of hole No. 4?
XI YU LIN: At that time, actually I teed off first in that group.  After I teed off, I didn't really see from my angle very quickly.  However, I saw my competitors, Inbee Park and others, I heard them yelling and with some explanation and I realized that my golf ball collided with the opponent's ball there.  And then, thanks to my opponent Inbee, because she could read the course more clearly and actually did pretty well there.
As far as improvement, even before Malaysia, I feel that I've been very steady and improving myself, especially very stable in long putting.  However, after I got back, I also got some training with my coach and that really helped tremendously, especially with the mind-set, it's very stable.
This year, I've been doing well and I hope that I can finish in the top three.  And as far as a possible title of winning on the LPGA Tour here, I would like to go step by step.  I don't want to give myself pressure and I don't want to think about that now.
Q. What's your strategy tomorrow?
XI YU LIN: To do what I did today successfully, I will continue to do what I have done well today -- especially the strategy that should be played out on the course.  For example, it's very difficult to be on the green, so sometimes I can do my best, as long as I can position the ball well, I can be happy.  If I can save par, I will be happy and I will settle with that.
Also, the wind, dealing with the wind itself here, I feel that I am drawing a lesson from what I learned last week in Taiwan where I probably didn't do too well in terms of that skill.  So obviously I know how to handle the wind situation better this time, so I'm pretty happy with these two factors.
Q. What happened on 17?
XI YU LIN: I laid up, and of course obviously did very well.  Almost got a hole-in-one.  I of course feel that to deal with that approach was kind of easy, as far as the distance, and also I was happy with my swing and was very relaxed.  The wind helped quite a bit, as well.
Also, I told myself on 17 or 18, I would like to at least get one birdie there.  I did, and I was happy.
Q. What's your relationship with your caddie?
XI YU LIN: I started using her from April this year, and we are really hitting it off well.  Whenever we run into difficulties in a situation, she calms me down and also gives me her thoughts and ideas to make her feel better and also more stable.  We really get along very well and we even sometimes can kid around a bit to loosen up the situation.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT