FUBON LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 22, 2015
Lin Yuxin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Lovely opening round of 67, and you were particularly solid on the back nine where you had to putt incredibly well.  
XI YU LIN: Yeah, today, my driver is not very good, so I missed a couple of fairways.  And also, it's pretty tough to approach the green from the rough, so I also missed a couple greens.  On the back nine, I only had nine putts, because I only hit three greens and I had all up-and-downs on the three greens, I made birdies, which is really good.  Like my putter helped me a lot today.   
 Q.  On the front nine, the ninth hole, you were one of very few players to make a birdie.  It's very difficult with a left-to-right, strong wind, I imagine.  
XI YU LIN: Actually at the ninth, because I had a bogey on 8 and on the ninth tee, I was just so glad I hit the fairway first, because my driving so like not working that well today.  And there was like 135 yards to the pin and I had a solid 7-iron which hit like into the wind off the right.  I was aiming way left.  So when the balls go out and like when the wind is pushing the ball, I was so worried.  I'm like, stop, stop, stop.   
So then it finished like 1 1/2 yards right of the pin, which is pretty -- surprised me, as well.  I'm glad I made that putt.  That putt was not a very easy put.   
 Q.  Recently you were playing well.  You were missing some cuts in the beginning of the year.  Did you make any changes?  What has been going on recently that you've been playing better?  Any changes?  
XI YU LIN: For me, like these couple tournaments in Asia, for me, the biggest improvement is my putting, because before I came to Malaysia, I worked with my coach in Beijing.  So we work on my putting a lot.  And I found out like maybe a better rhythm for me and pre-shot routine, like a better pre-shot routine for me.   
Like I'm really confident with my putting now, which has really helped me with my other part of the game, because when I'm hitting to the green, I'm not worried about missing the green.  And when I'm chipping, I know even if I chip not very good, maybe I can save the par still.  Yeah, I mean, I think my putting really improved a lot.   
 Q.  How long did you go back to Beijing for?  
XI YU LIN: Five days.  I had a tournament after Evian and then I had like a week, almost two weeks off.  Then before I go to Malaysia, I just went to Beijing.   
 Q.  So did you play in a c LPGA event after Evian or where did you play?  
XI YU LIN: It was national championships.   
 Q.  In China?  
XI YU LIN: Yes.   
 Q.  How long have you been with your coach in China?  
XI YU LIN: Oh, he actually works here.  He's Andrew Park.  He lives in Orlando but he's also working for the Beijing team.   
 Q.  National team?  
XI YU LIN: Not national, the state's team.  I'm in that team, as well.  So every year he will come to China like two or three times.   
 Q.  And he happened to be there at that time?  
XI YU LIN: Yes.   
 Q.  And you were Top-10 at Malaysia; how good was that for your confidence?  
XI YU LIN: Well, I mean, I played Malaysia last year but last year, first two rounds, I was sick, so I didn't play really good.  But I had very good like last two rounds in Malaysia.  So actually, I like that golf course.  This year, I'm coming back and I'm feeling pretty confident and very comfortable with my putting.  So, yeah, my game, like recently, my game really impressed me.   
 Q.  Do you have any goals for the end of the year?  Did you want to have a certain amount of finishes?  
XI YU LIN: Actually, like last year at the end of the year, I give myself like three goals for this year.  First, it's like wish I can play all the majors, and then -- well, keep the card first.  Make all the majors and wish I can play all the Asian tournaments.  So I already reached my goal, so like these couple weeks for me just like a bonus.  I won't give myself any pressure.   
 Q.  Now have you thought about goals for next year now, now that you're finishing off the season?  
XI YU LIN: Not yet, because maybe -- I don't know how good I'm going to finish this year, so I'm still going to work hard and see what happened at the end of the year.   
 Q.  Did you play in CME last year?  
XI YU LIN: No.   
 Q.  And you're going to be in your set to be in it this year?  
XI YU LIN: Yes.   
 Q.  How much are you looking forward to that?  
XI YU LIN: Well, last year I missed by one spot actually.  So I'm really looking forward to play there.   
 Q.  So that was kind of an extra bonus, too?  
XI YU LIN: Yes.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT