SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 10, 2015
Lin Yuxin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Feeling pretty good two back heading into tomorrow, two shots back, three shots back?  Shanshan was three shots back when she won last year.  That make you feel a little better?
XI YU LIN: I mean, like today my long game wasn't really good.  I hit three balls in the water.  I save three great bogey, though, and my putting was really good.
So I think it's (indiscernible.)
Q. What will you doing in advance of tomorrow to try and fix 'em?
XI YU LIN: Well, it's more about rhythm for me because I just did some changes, so it's all about confidence.
Maybe a little bit like strategy, because last hole I was a little too aggressive for the pin, so maybe tomorrow when I am in that kind of situation, especially when my ball is not on the fairway, I going to be more careful.
Q. Right.  This is a great week for you.  What are the changes you made in advance of this week?
XI YU LIN: Not much actually.
Q. Not much?
XI YU LIN: Actually recently my game was pretty good.  My putting is getting much better from last couple weeks.  Actually last couple tournament I was hitting great but just can't make that much putts.
This week putter works really good.
Q. How long has your caddie been on the bag and when did that start?
XI YU LIN: She start to caddie for me in.
Founders Cup.
Q. How a has that partnership been working out?
XI YU LIN: It's really good.  I really like her.  She used to be player as well.  She know what I need.  Yeah.
Q. What's her name and how did you get connected secretary with her?
XI YU LIN: Marty, her name is Marty Lund, and actually it's funny, last year when I play here, first round I play and Ariya and she's caddie for Ariya that time.  Only for one tournament.
Ariya told would me if you want you can try because she only going to work with her for one week.
I email her and...
Q. Worked out from there?
XI YU LIN: Yeah.
Q. Perfect.  Good luck tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT