SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 9, 2015
Lin Yuxin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I believe Shanshan's dad was the first one to take you out to the driving range to play golf.  Toll us that story?
XI YU LIN: Shanshan's dad and my mom are good friends.  Actually, at that time he owns junior golf team in my hometown, and then he just took me to the range and let me have a try.  Yeah, when I was 8.
So that's all the story how it begins.
Q. Kind of been hooked ever since?
XI YU LIN: Yeah.
Q. Was it pretty surreal to be out there with Shanshan today in the final group?
XI YU LIN: What you mean?
Q. Was it pretty cool to be out there with Shanshan?
XI YU LIN: I didn't play with her.
Q. Was it pretty cool to be on the leaderboard and see your name up their with hers?  Ahead of hers actually.
XI YU LIN: Yeah, but I play with Yani.  It is also my first time playing with her.  Yeah, it's good playing with someone speak Chinese as well.
We had really good conversation and we all playing really good today.
Q. Was it comforting to see the birdies coming in on the back nine?
XI YU LIN: Yeah.  I mean, when I start -- at the start of the back nine I miss like three birdies in a row, just like lip out.
Then I just keep telling myself I'm putting pretty good.  (Indiscernible)  I'm happy on the 14th hole.  I make a really long putt for birdie.  Even I had bogey next, but then I had another good putts on par-5.  Another birdie.
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. How is the conditions out there?
XI YU LIN: It's a little hotter today than yesterday for me, but actually because I live in south China, so last two week when I had week off at home the weather is -- well, the weather was almost the same as this.  At that time I don't really need to practice.
So today I trying to drink more waters and, yeah, my dad stole my umbrella, which is not very good.
I was pretty hot and I drink lots of water.  Thank God I finish 18.
THE MODERATOR: Did you feel like this was coming on recently?
XI YU LIN: Yeah, because, well, last couple week when I played Evian, actually it was my first time make the cut in that tournament, and I had best finish on major this year.
So I'm pretty confident with my game.  On the week offs I did a little change on my iron game, so yesterday I was so glad to see it's still working and still good shot.
So today I'm really happy and confident.
Q. Were you and Yani speaking Chinese out there?  Was that pretty comforting to have that?
XI YU LIN: Yeah, we speak Mandarin.
Q. What's the game plan for this weekend?
XI YU LIN: Well, make more birdies and -- well, I had one bogeys today and one bogey yesterday, which is pretty good for me, so just wishing I can hole more putts.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT