CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 21, 2015
Lin Yuxin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Was this one of your better rounds of the year?  How would you describe it?
XI YU LIN: Yeah, it's very solid round today, because last week, my long game wasn't really good.  And today, well, even when I was in the driving range, I was hitting the ball like everywhere.  So I was just telling myself, just be patient today, and I'm so glad.  I almost holed every birdie chance I could have.  Well, I had some bad shot, but I keep them on green and 2-putted.  So, yeah, pretty satisfied.
Q. Take us through the hole-in-one?
XI YU LIN: It's my first hole-in-one in a tournament.  I had one in practice round before, but it was only me, like nobody really see it.  So this time, lots of people saw it.
Q. How long ago was that hole-in-one?
XI YU LIN: How long?  It's 158 to the hole.
Q. What did you hit?
XI YU LIN: 6-iron.
Q. Did it look good the whole way in the air?
XI YU LIN: Well, when I'm hitting that, and I just trying to get the ball on green first, and I hit it pretty solid.  And then I never think about it will go in.  So I just pick the tee up, and when I turnaround, I saw my caddie, big smiling face, telling me the ball is in the hole.  So I'm like, oh; I was kind of shocked because it's my first one.  Still pretty excited.
Q. So this is your first one in competition?
XI YU LIN: Yes.
Q. What's your strategy tomorrow?
XI YU LIN: Well, like today, get more birdies on par 5s.  I did really good on the par 3s, like so hopefully tomorrow, like just more stable and trying to hole as much putts as I can.
Q. Is there anything that you want to fix going into the weekend?
XI YU LIN: Maybe still my irons is not very consistent.  But like today when I miss my shot, it's still on the green and not very tough chip or tough putts, which is pretty good.
So tomorrow, when I'm playing some hard hole, maybe I'll just aim middle of the green.
Q. What is the biggest challenge playing this particular golf course?
XI YU LIN: This green is pretty firm.  So on some of the hole, you can't really go for the pin.  Especially like when I was in the rough.  So need very good course management I think, and some of the putt is really tough to read, like very slopey like last one.  Also need very good putting.
Q. The Olympics are about a year away.  Currently you are on the squad.  What would it mean to you to represent China with Shanshan?
XI YU LIN: Well, playing Olympic is always one of my big targets.  So like I never think I can improve my World Ranking that fast in like last two years.  So I think I just will keep concentrate on every tournament and hopefully I'm playing better on LPGA and then I will get into the Olympics.
Q. Are we going to start seeing more and more Chinese women on the LPGA in years to come?
XI YU LIN: Oh, yeah, for sure.  Last year was only me and Shanshan and this year there's three more girls playing on Tour.  I believe there's a couple more International Team players is going to go to the Q-School.  So I believe there will be more Chinese players on LPGA.
Q. How long have you been a professional?
XI YU LIN: I turned pro early when I was 15.  I played on LET in 2013 and LPGA last two years.
Q. Are you enjoying it out here?
XI YU LIN: Yeah, it's really cool.  Well, for Chinese, it's much easier playing on LPGA because we only need one visa (laughs).  It's easier traveling for me.  I really like America because I really like traveling around and seeing different things.  It's so different from China, though.
Q. There's a large Chinese population here in the Vancouver area.  Have you had a chance to look around or meet anyone off the golf course?
XI YU LIN: I met a couple of my friends, even like a couple of them, we practice together when we were young, yeah.  So it's a very like nice week for me because I got Korean food and Chinese food around me, and all the friends speaking Chinese around me.  So it's really relaxed for me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT