BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 21, 2019
Lin Yuxin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Hole in one today on the 17th.  I believe it was 142, 143 yards with a 9-iron.  Talk about what you felt when you saw the ball in flight, pitched just short of the green, big left-hand turn it drop into the cup?
XIYU LIN: I mean, I was really surprising because I only see the ball land, and it's like -- from my angle it's like 10-feet right of the hole, which then I'm like, Oh, it's a good shot.
I didn't know what happened next because from my angle I didn't see anything.  So I just pick up the tee and walk, and all of a sudden I hear the screaming and I said, Oh, is it really going in?
Q. So how far from the tee had you walked before you knew you had a hole in one?
XIYU LIN: I was already cleaning my tee at my golf bag.  I already put the club back in.  Yeah, I wasn't even know and I'm just like, Oh, maybe there is a good shot there.
Then like some other player was like, Oh, you know you made the hole in one?  I'm like, Oh, really.  (Laughter.)  Just from my angle it looks a little to the right, so I didn't know like how did it go in.
I kind of looking for forward to see the video on the Internet tonight to find out how the ball went in.  Definitely wasn't in my mind at all when I hit it.
Q. How many holes in ones have you had on the LPGA Tour and how many as a professional?
XIYU LIN: I think I had all my -- I have four on LPGA, including one in Olympics if that one counts.  Yeah, so this is my fourth hole in one.
Q. Which is the most significant, the one at the Olympics?
XIYU LIN: Yeah, obviously because that's like the first woman have the hole in one, which is going to be like lifetime thing that I will keep telling everybody I'm the first Olympic hole in one.
This one, it's always very special.  Like this one and the last time I had hole in one in Thailand I also (indiscernible), but it's all using the back slopes.  It's always like I couldn't even see the ball and I don't even know it goes in.
I mean, it's great to have that during the tournament.  It's just very cool.
Q. You finished at 2-Under.  Birdie on the last.  That was a nice way to finish.
XIYU LIN: Yeah.  I mean, because I been having like three weeks off, and normally when I come back I was a little bit - not saying rusty - but when I like haven't played tournament for a long time I kind of stand there and kind of confuse, not seeing the ball I want to hit.
Normally the first two day I will be a little poor with my strategy.  Actually today I doing it really well.  See that hole in one.  That's a perfect right landing, right number.
I'm very happy, yeah.  After that things kind of turn around.  So when I make the turn I had some really bad lies, but I'm like, You make the hole in one so you cannot complain.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT