BLUE BAY LPGA
October 21, 2016
Lin Yuxin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How do you feel about your play today compared to yesterday?
XI YU LIN: I'm happy that today I did pretty well, better than yesterday.  Yesterday the rhythm was kind of slow and today, the rhythm was right there, pretty smooth, and also my mood is pretty good, as well, as far as the putting.
My putting, basically I was very happy because the fact that when the ball lands on the green, it rolls pretty smoothly.  That's why I'm pretty happy with my result today and overall performance.
Q. Any pressure because you are the highest-ranked golfer from the Chinese squad?
XI YU LIN: No, no, I don't think I have any pressure, especially this year.  In addition to Shanshan, we also have our teammates in the LPGA, as well.  They are all pretty solid and they have at least two years in the LPGA.
As far as my own form, I think it's still in the process of recuperating or getting back after the Rio games where I didn't do too well.  I don't have any pressure.  Each day I'm trying to make progress.  Yesterday for example, I didn't probably fair too well.  I wasn't particularly unhappy, and today I'm there.
Q. Anything different that you can tell us about last year, you finished tied for fifth at plus three, and now after the first two rounds, you're already under four and you're tied with the third position, and what might be the difference?
XI YU LIN: The conditions of this year is certainly very different from last year.  I believe last year, we got wind, we got rain, and the degree of difficulty was right there.  It was pretty, pretty high.
As far as this year, maybe because at the very beginning, the greens conditions are actually softer, which is easier for us to hold the ball there.  And also, it's not that windy every day.
And I believe this year, because of the conditions, the strategy has to be very, very different.  Last year, if you reached par, it's already pretty sufficient.
This year, you have to on a daily basis be under par in order to really thrive and in order to do well.  I think this is what I do.  I'm trying to catch as many birdies as possible.
As far as next week, I haven't thought about it thoroughly yet because I want to focus on the next two days, especially try to reach my objective and get better as far as my form.  Obviously next week's competition, I am confident with that.
Q. How were the conditions today and how was hole 4, and what will be your objective tomorrow?
XI YU LIN: Let me say, as far as hole 4, the conditions today and yesterday was very, very different, especially with the pin position there.
I believe today I actually did pretty well with the i9 there.  And also yesterday, the condition, it was very windy.  And today again, it's not that windy.  So obviously to catch birdies will be considered normal.
As far as my objective tomorrow, I don't think I will focus on ranking.  It's not really under my control.  What I need to do is just focus on my technique, especially with putting, for example.  The speed has to be adjusted to be more under control and I probably didn't do too well in the very beginning.  Also, I didn't grab or seize the opportunities they arise.
Q. Talk about the ramifications of the typhoon itself, before it took place on Tuesday, I got here on Monday afternoon, and I already actually knew that the typhoon probably would comma according to the news and everything.
However, I actually spent a whole day Tuesday in my own room eating, sleeping, didn't do anything else.  Actually I didn't do too well on Wednesday, the next day.  But I'm very thankful to the organizing committee and IMG and the Westin hotel and the club itself, because they got preparations ready, so information was totally there and delivered.
In the very beginning, I was a little nervous, and then afterwards, I felt pretty comfortable, even though the whole day I spent in my room.  I didn't have any electric out age or anything else, and the dining service was also very good.  Might be some breaks ine with five even though that don't bother me, so that was really impressive.  And when I was on course, I didn't feel at all the club or the course in itself were in any way affected by the typhoon at all.
So even the course condition was not that muddy, so she was pleasantly surprised.  Overall, so far I'm also happy with the weather conditions.
Q. This past summer, there was a junior tournament here sponsored by HSBC and a lot of the younger players, men and women, were here playing, and now as we speak right now, they are competing in Shanghai for the finals.  Of course you yourself grew up through this path, as well.  What advice would you have?
XI YU LIN: Given my experience, it's to play and have such a tournament at such a young age at this club, for example, which is really one of the quality clubs.  However, it does have it's difficulties there.  For example, with the degree of difficulty of the course itself, you need a lot of data to back you up to help and you to understand how the condition is.
This is a challenge.  So my suggestions to the youngsters would be, yes, if you go and participate in any of these tournaments with clubs with a tremendous degree of difficulty, treat it as a learning process.  Those courses where you have lesser degree of difficulty, you might boost your confidence.
However, in these courses where you have more degree of difficulty, then you will find out the disparity that you might have with others and how much you are lagging behind and so forth.  This is the same in the United States, as well.
So in short, through these experiences, you might be able to summarize the lessons you've learned and also enrich your experience in competitions.
Q. What do you to make sure the driving is on the right course without any problem?
XI YU LIN: Basically you really have to make sure that -- actually as far as the course here, it's not really that difficult without any windy situation.  The course itself is pretty wide for to you narrow down your target.  You don't want to be setting your target in a very wide vision, but what you need to do is narrow your vision to narrow down the target specifically, and this way you don't be astray too much and you won't miss the target too much.
And also, try to aim actually high.  In other words, to aim at certain subjects in the distance, for example, the top of a billboard and so forth, not something on the ground.  That will also help you easily, or relatively easier to narrow down on your target.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT