BLUE BAY LPGA
October 21, 2016
Lin Yuxin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








.
Q. I know Hainan is a special place for you in the sense that you have a lot of good results here.  Your best finish last season was here at Blue Bay and your first LET win was also at Hainan.
XI YU LIN: My defending win.
Q. Is there something different when you come to Hainan?  Do you feel different?  What do you attribute your good results specifically here to?
XI YU LIN: I think one of the biggest reason is Hainan is actually very close to my hometown.  My hometown is Guangzhou.  It's only like an hour flight from here.  I guess the course condition will be more close to where I would normally practice when I was young, so the grass and the greens, it's very familiar for me.
And also to be honest, I love playing in hot weather.  Much better than cold weather.  So I love just playing under the sun, and doesn't matter if it's windy or not.  And plus, I love the food in Hainan.  I love the coconuts and mangos and everything.  So yeah, it always brings me good memories, yes.
Q. How does it feel to have the LPGA bring one of its tournaments so close to your hometown and to have it held here in China for the second time this season?
XI YU LIN: Oh, yeah, it's always good having a tournament in China no matter it's in Beijing or here.  Because I think golf now in China is still like developing, so we need lots of exciting moments for like our kids or even our spectators, our folks.
So I wish that we will have like more tournaments around China and hopefully more Chinese players will do well and let the Chinese know us and let the world know us, as well.
Q. You're on your third year on the Tour, but we have a rookie from China, as well.  What kind of advice do you give to the newer players from China who are just joining the LPGA Tour?  I would imagine there are some challenges.
XI YU LIN: Yeah, I think because my first year was a tough year, as well.  I think it's like I said, because America, it's very far away from our country and technically, everything is different, different courses, and different culture, different way to work.  And especially I mean, the course, like at first it took a long time to get used to maybe half of the greens on Tour now.
So my advice for the rookie from China will be, maybe it's good if you're born in the States or practice there a lot, but if you're not, you have to work really hard on knowing the course and the greens.  The first year, you might not have such a good result, but as long as you keep yourself in the top hundred, you keep your card.
So the first two years, just don't rush yourself too much and just learn every tournament, learn how to play on that kind of golf course, and you will soon see like how that kind of things will help on your game.
Q. I know you said last year that when your mom was here, you were so happy to have family here, and I see her again this year, as well.  Can you tell me about the influence your mom or family has had on your career and what it means for them to be with you here?
XI YU LIN: Because I mean, it's always really good to have my family with me because I joined the national team when I was 13, and we played the Asian Games when I was 14.  So at that time, I was already away from home.  So when I was 14, I remember that year only being home for like a month or two.
So I was away from home when I was really, really young, and I always want to spend more time with my parents, and not just my parents but all my relatives in China.  I tried to bring, like last year in Sanya, the LET tournament, I bring my cousin over and I just enjoy being with them.
Because even my parents, like they don't really speak English, so it will be a little better for them to travel Asia with me.  And plus, my mom is just my lucky star.  Every time I bring her to Hainan, there will be something good happens.  That's why I bring her here again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT