SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CTBC
April 21, 2016
Lin Yuxin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Very nice round.  You haven't really played particularly well at this course.  What was key today?
XI YU LIN: Because last couple weeks my game been pretty good, but just couldn't really put everything together.
So last week after I miss the cut and I had a talk with Mardi, like we talk about everything in my game.  Just trying to get everything clear.
Today we really talk a lot.  Like if I'm feeling comfortable, I just back up and tell her exactly what I'm feeling.
So I think that was really good.  We had many good decisions, club selection.  Really close today.  I hit solid and I make some putts.
Q. How long have you been with Mardi?
XI YU LIN: A year.  Founders should be whole year.
Q. Founders last year she started?
XI YU LIN: Uh-huh.
Q. Like you said, how big has she been with not just decision making, but helping you with your game overall?  How helpful has she been to you?
XI YU LIN: Well, she is very experienced because she used to be player.  We been working together for a long time.  We know each other.  So I decide to just tell her all my feeling, and sometimes just get the feeling this club is right even it doesn't look right.
So I just tell her.  I telling her everything.  I'm so nervous hitting this drive or I don't like this pin position, so let's hit to the middle of the green.
We talk a lot.  Like soon as I make it clear, I can have a good rhythm.
Q. What does she say when you tell her you're nervous?
XI YU LIN: Last hole I said, I don't really like this drive.  It's just a drive.
Q. That was on the last hole right here?
XI YU LIN: Yeah, 9th hole.  Yeah, because lots of trees on the left.  Today I missed one hard left, so I said don't really like this.  Just hit the shot.
Q. So she gives you a little bit of confidence and says, Get it together; you can do this.
XI YU LIN: Yeah, then after I tell her I get nervous, she will like - how you say - like we set even a smaller target.  She will tell me like it's wide open on the right side and also on the left side.  Even you hit in the tree you can layup.  All target is middle of the fairway, so it's wide open on both sides.  You shouldn't feel nervous.
First thing she says, It's just a drive.  Why you nervous?  It's just funny though.
Q. She's great.  I want to talk to you about International Crown.  China is in now, and Shanshan is obviously the leader of the Chinese now.  How much are you looking forward to that event and being able to represent China for that?
XI YU LIN: Well, actually, I never think we can get in International Crown like that soon, like this year.  Because I think all junior player are playing good maybe in another one or two years we will definitely get in.
This year obviously that little girl, she won in China and just push us, force us to the seventh place, which is really good sign, because that means even she's not having a tour card yet but she's been doing really good, playing good golf.  I can see lots of player are getting much better.
This year on tour we get five, six players.  It's getting more and more.
Q. Do you know her at all?
XI YU LIN: Oh, we know each other for long time.  I know her when she was 12.
Q. You know all of the other three teenagers?
XI YU LIN: Yeah, I know all of them because we -- instead of Shanshan, but rest of us used to be in national team together, so we train all the time together.
Q. How much could your performances at the International Crown and the Olympics, how much can that do for golf in China?
XI YU LIN: I expecting as much as possible.  Yeah, because now in China golf is still not such a popular sport.
Still there is lots of people seeing that's a sport that's very expensive and wasting the area and not quite good.
So hopefully after Olympics and also International Crown they will change their mind.  We been doing like -- especially Shanshan been doing a lot because she having her own academy.  They bring the golf lesson to the primary and middle school and let the kids know how good is golf.  Let them know actually don't really need to be good player, but you can still playing good golf and come to the college in the States.
It's really good for them.  Hopefully getting more popular and more people really understand it more.
Q. Do you envision a day when golf will be like it is in other Asian countries?  Is it realistic?
XI YU LIN: I mean, so far, because just too much population in China, too much people, so I don't think golf like will be like here:  bunch of golf course and it's close to downtown and everybody can just drive there and play nine holes if they want.
But I'm wishing they at least starting to think golf is such a good sport, not just only rich people can play that kind of sport and not for us.  I'm hoping people will say, If I got a chance I would like to try if I get offered that.
So I think that's the thing I would like to see maybe in the next four, five years.  I think it would happen.
Q. That all the little girls back in China will see you and Shanshan in the Olympics and think, Wow, that could be mean?  Maybe they don't watch Golf Channel now, but...
XI YU LIN: Yeah, even for the education.  You don't have to be a professional player, but if you have that talent, why don't you use it to help you get to a better college or better life or something.
Q. Sure.
XI YU LIN: Yeah.
Q. Can you see a day when Chinese golfers are a force in the women's game, where maybe you could take on the Koreans in an international event?  Are you a sleeping giant?
XI YU LIN: Well, I think because Chinese is good at, you know, the sport that needs skill, so I think golf should be that kind of sport.
So soon as like the people change their mind and the more kids joining this game and trying, more people trying, can found more people with talent.  Just hoping more people trying first.
We will see very soon that we find lots of kids with talent and they really starting to do well.
Q. Is that a challenge right now, getting enough players interested that you can build the giants?
XI YU LIN: Sorry?
Q. Is that biggest challenge right now, getting more kids to try it?
XI YU LIN: Yeah, I think more kids could try, and for government, they really starting to support this sport, really trying to -- should be a sport that Chinese going to be good at.
Hopefully golf stay in Olympics.  They'll think, This is the sport.  We could have made gold medal in Olympics, so they will starting to support this game and you get more opportunity on tournaments and golf course. (Indiscernible.)
Q. I would guess winning the gold medal would be the most dramatic thing that could change everything for the sport.
XI YU LIN: Winning any medal.
Q. How about placing well, maybe top 10 there?  I know a medal, but even a good showing, would that be influential?
XI YU LIN: I think so, definitely.  Yeah, that's the way it's going to be, I think.  Just trying to do our best and let the whole China seeing how good we can doing.
Q. One more question about here at Lake Merced.  I know you played the past few years.  What have you learned about that course that you brought into this week?
XI YU LIN: Well, to tell you the truth, I think today is the warmest day, warmest tournament round day I ever had here.
Q. Yeah.  No gloves or anything.
XI YU LIN: Yeah, first, I like playing in the warmer -- I rather play in a hotter place, so today really help, because my body keep losing, and happy I'm only wearing one shirt.
Q. One layer.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT