NCAA WOMEN'S COLLEGE WORLD SERIES
May 28, 2015
Ally Carda
Kelly Inouye-Perez
Stephany LaRosa
Gabrielle Maurice
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  UCLA 7 - Oregon - 1

THE MODERATOR: We're joined by UCLA head coach Kelly Inouye-Perez.  To her right we have student-athlete Ally Carda, student-athlete Gabrielle Maurice and student-athlete Stephany LaRosa.COACH INOUYE-PEREZ: First, we'd like to say it's a great opponent we just played in Oregon.  Very talented.  We had some dog fights against them.  So we knew today was going to be a great game.  But I'm so proud of my Bruins.  They just made a little history for themselves here.  First World Series, to be able to get out there and get the W in the fashion they did playing their game.  I'm just very proud of them.  We're not done yet.  But day one is the big one, and I'm really proud of where we are right now.THE MODERATOR: Questions?Q. Coach, if you can, talk about the barrage that five-inning run?COACH INOUYE-PEREZ: You know, I think what's most impressive about this team, I couldn't even tell you any one individual that stood out tonight.  Some great at-bats.  For Steph (Stephany Larosa) to be able to come out and strike and throw that first punch was outstanding in the first couple of runs that we scored.  And then Gabi (Gabrielle Maurice).  But definitely that one inning -- that's something that we do well.  When we get going we can definitely score in bunches.  That's a product of them having quality two-strike, two-out at-bats.  They do a great job of being able to compete down to the last pitch.  So, very unselfish team and quality at-bats across the board, and definitely some big runs to get Ally (Carda) some assurance so she didn't have to be so perfect at the end.Q. Stephany and Ally, curious what role the two of you have played for each other over the years and how has that partnership worked over the years?STEPHANY LAROSA: Me being the catcher, I'm kind of new to the position, still it's only my second year.  But Ally (Carda) has done a great job for me in a sense where she's definitely instilled that confidence in me that I could get behind the plate regardless of having no experience at all.  So much credit to her for kind of instilling that in me and it makes me come out here and be as strong as I am behind the plate because of her.ALLY CARDA: I'll give the credit right back to her.  I think she instills the confidence in me as a pitcher.  Especially playing Oregon tonight, they're a tough team and unfortunately earlier in the year we lost two.  So for her to be behind the plate with me tonight and to re-ensure that we're in a good place and make sure my stuff's moving.  It gives me great confidence and makes me nice and calm on the mound, and she makes me feel I can do anything out there.  So it's been great.Q. Ally, early on, you know, you had many of your pitches come in late, you got it back.  Talk about being in the circle and just having command and being able to dominate your opponent?ALLY CARDA: I think we've really prepared for the team tonight and for this tournament.  We've been doing it all year.  For me on the mound, I think I've been taking it, we talk a lot about it, but one pitch at a time.  I need to focus every pitch.  We can't really take any breaks because all these teams are really good.  They're great hitters. So once I take one break, that's where we're in trouble.  So everything I've been focusing on is just one pitch at a time and making good pitches move and putting them where I need to.Q. A little bit off topic, but we've seen some creative stuff in dugouts over the course of the year.  And especially here this weekend.  LSU bought a goldfish.  You guys had fun stuff going on, Stephany and Gabrielle, if you could both touch on this.  Any symbolism to what you guys do in the dugout or any fun stories connected to it?STEPHANY LAROSA: Absolutely we have a theme established.  We like to produce runs.  But when you get to this point in the season your dugout is a huge part.  They're kind of where your energy comes from.  So we kind of take anything and we run with it.  Just something to buy into.  So being able to buy into lime drives and producing runs, it's big for the team, and it's definitely contagious, and I think it plays a big part, especially out here tonight.GABRIELLE MAURICE: Going off of that, I think it just keeps everything simple in the dugout, not making anything much bigger than it is, and it keeps everyone loose and goofy so we can play relaxed and I think it really benefits us.Q. Stephany, to have to wait four years to get here, were you able to savor where you were out there, were you too locked into the actual game to kind of savor it?STEPHANY LAROSA: No, absolutely.  I think it's a big thing.  Try not to make things as big as they are but we talk a lot about living in the moment, taking one pitch at a time and enjoying it because it is our senior year, it's our last hurrah, and to be out here with this group of girls it's going to be quite a memorable experience.THE MODERATOR: Thank you.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT