NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 21, 1997
Stefan Cherneski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Right now I am just overjoyed right now.  Kind of like a big adrenaline rush.  Don't want this moment to end right now. 
 
I definitely feel that is two, three years down the road.  I definitely feel myself going back to another year junior.  If things go well down there, I will have to assess my situation with the Rangers then.  But I see more not making an immediate jump, but more of a gradual progression into the NHL. 
 
I don't think there is really any aspect of my game individually needs working on.  Keep on raising, working on every part of my game to become a better player in all areas. 
 
I like to think that I shoot the puck really well and really good in the offensive zone. 
 
Kind of nervous sitting there. Nervous and excited at the same time because you don't know  what is happening.  But, it is so exhilarating to be there, see what is all occurring on the draft floor and different players getting called. 
 
I think I am a good two-way forward who can bring character level to the team, positive attitude, and general all-around team guy. 
 
I sort of like to think that I sort of play like Steve Harmer. 
 
That was a couple years of years back when they were enjoying Stanley Cup success.  I guess you can say I jumped on the bandwagon. 
 
No, I have always admired Rangers. Always been one of the teams that I have enjoyed watching and I enjoy watching them play for them in the future. 
 
I didn't really have a favorite team.  They just took the thing from my first year in Brandon. They took the profile from there. 
 
Not really.  When you think about it, it is going to be great to be in the same areas of great  players such as them.  But, when it gets down to training camp, it is going to be business.  It is not going to be about going out for autographs.  I am going there to do my job and that is to play hockey. 
 
I think you just have to work your hardest and assess yourself after each year and assess yourself where you want to be; where you are at and where you want to be next year.  It is not up to the player if he is going to make the team.  It is up to management.  And, if they feel at some point in time that I will be able to play, I will be happy to jump into that position. 
 
Definitely.  If they feel that I should go back, I will leave there with like a vengeance to make it back, kind of a fire burning in me. 
 
No, I have never met Wayne Gretzky.  That will be a dream coming true from a kid growing up in the prairies to meet a player like Wayne Gretzky and Richter and Messier. 
 
Might have been like ten years age.  I am not too sure. 
 
Definitely it is a great honor.  I think I just need to work on my whole game.  Make every aspect of my whole game better. 
 
My greatest assets probably are my ability to shoot the puck and offensive zone, scoring goals. 
 
Like a burst of adrenaline going through my body and I haven't stopped smiling since. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT