THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2015
Scott Arnold
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Great finish to your first Open.SCOTT ARNOLD: Yeah.Q. You must be pretty pumped.SCOTT ARNOLD: Yeah, very excited.  Today I played really well, hit the ball tee to green pretty much how I have all week, and holed a few more putts today, which was nice.  Adrian Fryer from the UK is a guy that I saw yesterday.  He just gave me a few little tips, went out on the putting green and just saw a few things in my alignment and a few things like that, and worked a treat today.Q. Obviously the scores are out there this morning.  Is it there to be taken?SCOTT ARNOLD: Yeah, I think so.  Obviously the wind is going to pick up a little bit, but I was lucky enough to play the first 15 with hardly any breeze.  We played the last three into the wind, which was a little bit difficult, 16, 17, but yeah, I think from now on, I don't think the breeze is going to get any softer, so hopefully we can shoot up the board a little bit.Q. Do you think Jason has got it in him to shoot that number?SCOTT ARNOLD: Definitely.  I played with him on Tuesday and he hit the ball really well.  I think if he just puts himself in there and gets off to a decent start, I think he can definitely go ahead and lift the trophy.Q. Will you hang around just in case that happens?SCOTT ARNOLD: Well, we've got a flight back -- I'm going to France tomorrow, so yeah, I've got to shoot off.  I'd love to stay and support him and Cole.  I wish them all the best, but I've got another tournament to go to now.  I'm sure if he plays like you know he can, pretty sure he can get it done.Q. (Inaudible.)SCOTT ARNOLD: Exactly, yeah.  I feel like my game has been quite good, like I said, just had a bit of a cold putter really most of the week, and the days that I holed some putts I made plenty of birdies, so really, really happy with how I've played all week, and hopefully we can finish in the Top 40 would be quite nice, and then obviously kick on.  Like I said, we've got France next week and then I think it's a week off next week.  Pretty tired and drained, so I'm looking forward to getting done next week and then having a week off.Q. Is it the buzz you needed, something big like this?SCOTT ARNOLD: Yeah, I think so.  I'm really surprised at myself that I didn't really feel out of my way and really nervous this week.  I don't know if it's because I played here so many times, but yeah, I didn't really feel out of place, which is a good thing.  Hopefully going to these smaller tournaments like the Challenge Tour, I can hopefully feel like I'm one of the better players there and keep playing how I'm playing and hopefully chalk up a win hopefully next week would be nice.Q. So you've proven to yourself that you belong?SCOTT ARNOLD: Yeah, definitely.  I think I can play.  Obviously just got to have the opportunity to get out there and play.  At the end of the day, hard work, and you play well, and you'll get there in the end.  So that's the outlook I'm taking.  If I just keep playing well, everything else will take care of itself.Q. What's more important to you, 66 or (inaudible)?SCOTT ARNOLD: Probably the check, to be honest.  Obviously to shoot 66 the last day of a major is not too bad.  But yeah, I think the money is more important for me at the moment.  At this time in my career.  I think a few years down the track I don't think it would be, but yeah, definitely the money.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT