THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 23, 2020
Robby Shelton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. You're standing on 13 tee, sort of average round.  What all of a sudden just clicked?
ROBBY SHELTON:   You know, just saw a putt go in the hole on 13.  I made about -- something around 50 feet.  I had mud on it.  It was off the green.  Just got kind of lucky.  The ball found the centre of the cup and to birdie the next hole gave me even more confidence because that's a hard hole, and kept it rolling with a hole-out on 15.
It was just like kind of a switch went off, I guess.  It finally started happening.  First three days, nothing went in, and it was just very slow.  Finally, it finally happened.
Q. Describe that second shot on 15.
ROBBY SHELTON:   Yeah, it was around 150 yards downwind.  I had to get all the 50 degree I could, and it was a good number.  Just a full shot.  Luckily they are soft because it landed four or five feet behind it and spun back in.  I mean, it went dead center in the cup, so pretty cool.
Q. By virtue of that finish, 6-under in the last six, you pretty much stamped your passport to Chicago for the Playoffs.  What do you think about that, being able to get within yourself like that and make that drive?
ROBBY SHELTON:   Yeah, it was exciting.  It kind of felt like I was winning the golf tournament for a minute there.  I was super nervous on 1.  I just wanted to two-putt that one.  Luckily I did, but you know, that's been my goal the whole year was to make it to BMW and just hopefully hold on.
Q. At what point did you start picking up the scoreboard to see where you were in the standings?
ROBBY SHELTON:   My caddie and I knew we had to get probably Top-20, at least, to have a chance and maybe have some help from there, too.  I started looking after I birdied 13, 14, and after the hole-out I knew I could do it.  17 and 18 are pretty easy.
Q. Is there a bit of a sense of relief now?
ROBBY SHELTON:   Oh, yeah, for sure.  I can breathe.  Even if I don't make it, it was still fun to play those last six the way I did.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT