A MILITARY TRIBUTE AT THE GREENBRIER
September 14, 2019
Robby Shelton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Battled back and you're right there for Sunday. How difficult did the golf course play today?  
ROBBY SHELTON: Yeah, it was a grind today all day. The greens were really firm and the pins were tucked on the front of the greens on almost every hole. They didn't want many low numbers today, and it definitely showed. The scores were pretty high.   
Pretty happy to shoot even par.   
 Q.  Maybe best case couple shots back going into Sunday. You a guy that likes to chase or be out in front?  
ROBBY SHELTON: I definitely like to chase. Even on the Korn Ferry Tour I had a couple big leads and kind of gave it away early. I like to come from behind for sure.   
 Q.  All things considered, how satisfied are you with your position heading into Sunday?  
ROBBY SHELTON: Very satisfied. I told myself to start the day, Just grind and try to shoot even par. It was really tough. The score showed it. You know, super firm out there, and the pins were tough.   
So pretty happy with what I did.   
 Q.  Kind of interesting moving day with not a lot of low scores out there. I think the clubhouse low score was 65. How different did it play and in what specific areas?  
ROBBY SHELTON: Yeah, no way somebody could have shot 59 today. There is now way. It was so tough. The greens were super firm. You're hitting long irons into the greens and just having a lot of 20-, 30-footers, instead of ones that are inside 10 feet.   
Makes it a lot harder.   
 Q.  You've talked about staying patient, and that's something you did the first two days when you did have a little bit of the jitters. Staying patient on a Sunday is a totally different ballgame on the PGA TOUR. What are some things from past experience you'll draw from?  
ROBBY SHELTON: Yeah, even today I could feel myself getting a little antsy, a little fast paced. I tried to slow myself down on the back nine and definitely helped.   
And from past experience, just my two wins on the Korn Ferry. You got to be super patient. I remember having a 4-shot lead in Nashville (indiscernible) and lost the lead. So, you know, I mean, it's hard to do, but hopefully I can manage my nerves tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT