A MILITARY TRIBUTE AT THE GREENBRIER
September 12, 2019
Robby Shelton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A 62 in the opening round. Happy with that birdie on the end. How did you put it all together?
ROBBY SHELTON: Yeah, I was pretty Steady Eddie today. I had one hiccup there on 18, but besides that hit fairways and greens and made nine putts fall.
Was a pretty easy round today.
Q. It's been quite the 2019 calendar year for you. A couple wins on the Korn Ferry Tour in order to win your PGA TOUR card. Let's carry it over with your game. I know there was some missed cuts in the last couple months, but you've got to feel like things are trending in the right direction.
ROBBY SHELTON: Yeah, it is. I had a hot April, April-May season, and I was still feeling well, but the putts wouldn't fall and stuff.
It's trending again. It's feeling good again over the ball. It's exciting that it's just starting right now.
Q. And that it's translating to the PGA TOUR. You have not played in a TOUR event in over two years. Getting back out here, the first event of the new season, what are the vibes like?
ROBBY SHELTON: Yeah, I'm fired up. Last night it was tough to sleep. I've been waiting for this moment all season. After winning two times on the Korn Ferry I knew it was coming, and just been super excited. It's finally here. Just celebrate it for the next three days.
Q. It is a long season. What were some benchmarks that you have for the next few event in the fall?
ROBBY SHELTON: Yeah, I'm going to try to play the next five in a row and hopefully seven out of the next ten. Going to be a long stretch, but if I can just stay consistent, that's ultimately my goal. Stay consistent and hit fairways and greens and not get too tired.
Q. Robby, 8-under, 62. That's your PGA TOUR career low. I think 64 was your previous best. What a great way to get the '19/'20 season off to a start.
ROBBY SHELTON: Yeah, super excited. Been a heck of a season, and the game is trending in a good direction again. Super excited and just ready to get the next three going.
Q. This is your first tournament as a full PGA TOUR member. What was it like teeing off on the 1st hole? Was it any different to playing -- I know you played a handful of TOUR events in the past. How different was it?
ROBBY SHELTON: Yeah, just trying to tell myself that it's just golf. I think my sponsor exemptions and stuff, I thought I had to change my game and try to play with the big boys.
Now, I mean, I just know it's golf. Been through the Mackenzie Tour and the Korn Ferry Tour, so I know what my game has. And if I can just get to that a lot sooner, that's the goal.
Q. Just talk about the 62 today. Just the lone bogey at 18, and you finished it with a birdie on No. 9.
ROBBY SHELTON: Yeah, the putt on No. 9 was a really good feeling just to have that to drop and seeing the leaderboard right there.
It was nice also getting a read from Tyler. But, yeah, the round was good. My swing felt a little shaky at first, but kept it in the middle and after I got my nerves calmed down it was really good.
The putter felt really good in my hands. I made a lot of five- and ten-footers, and that's what you have to do out here.
Q. Did you wake up thinking there was a 62 out there somewhere today?
ROBBY SHELTON: Not really. I was just trying to hit fairways. That was really the goal. I knew if I hit fairways my irons have been good this whole season, so just lucky to have the putter right there with me.
Q. It's a long tournament; you know that. How do you just relax and get ready for tomorrow?
ROBBY SHELTON: Yeah, I'm just not going to wear myself out. The young Robby would probably go out there and start grinding and putting and hitting stuff, but I'm just going to go back and chill.
I have a late tee time tomorrow, so got to take it easy.
Q. Is that something you've learned from the previous dozen or so starts out here, something you need to do in that situation?
ROBBY SHELTON: Yeah. Like I said, coming out I would grind on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday and wore myself out and all my good shots were gone by Thursday.
But now I'm just trying to ease into it and take it easy a lot of the time.
Q. One bogey on 18. How good did you feel to come back with three straight birdies after that?
ROBBY SHELTON: Yeah, it was nice. Just to bounce back, that's always a good stat to have, the bounce back. After that bogey I hit a good shot. Just didn't get up and down out of the bunker and hit it tight on the next three and made them, so it was nice.
Q. You were talking about how excited you were last night. What did you do to get yourself to sleep? Any tricks to that?
ROBBY SHELTON: Honestly just to make myself go to sleep. I went to bed probably around 9:00. I needed a good night's sleep. I didn't need to stay up late and think about it.
Yeah, that's all I did.
Q. Did that surprise you how you felt about it, that you were that much keyed up about it?
ROBBY SHELTON: Yeah, I don't think it's shocking. It's the PGA TOUR. It's so much fun and what you look forward to your whole life. I just knew my game was there, and I was super excited to see what it could hold up to.
Q. What did you hit into 18, the 9th?
ROBBY SHELTON: A little 6-iron.
Q. Any messages or comments, texts of support from peers before starting this week?
ROBBY SHELTON: Yeah, it's been amazing. A lot of friends and family have been shooting me texts, Just stay calm. You know, It's just golf. That's what they keep saying.
I did that today.
But, yeah, a lot guys out here, Tom, Trey, all the 'Bama boys been texting me. That's exciting just to know they're out here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT