U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2014
Robby Shelton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Just take me through your round.  You were even at the turn and obviously found a few birdies there on the front nine.  What was going well for you?  Were you hitting it close?  ROBBY SHELTON: Yeah, I hit it close.  I got a hot start on 2, that was a good birdie, a 512-yard par 4, hit a hybrid in there to eight feet.  That was huge to make that.  Then I birdied the next one.  Hit it in there tight and actually made the putt. Pretty steady the rest of the way.  Could have made a few more birdies.  I actually made a good putt on 8 for birdie.   Q.  Had a good chance on nine here too.  ROBBY SHELTON: Yeah.   Q.  Talk a little about your experience playing in the U.S. Open this year and how that experience translates to this week?  ROBBY SHELTON: Yeah, it helps a lot just to play in that and all the pros to see all of them play.  It helped my game a lot, tremendously.  Then I didn't play well at the Western.  That actually helped me, I think.  It boosted my confidence just to play well again.  I mean, that's just led me to here pretty much.   Q.  What was working particularly well in your game today?  Were you driving the ball well?  You were obviously hitting some iron shots close so that helps.  ROBBY SHELTON: My front nine I didn't hit it great.  It wasn't bad, but I was a little shaky.  Then starting on the back I figured something out and was hitting pretty much every fairway and every green, just made a few of the putts.   Q.  What is your comfort level on these two courses?  You're from the south and have played these grasses well.  What's it feel like?  ROBBY SHELTON: It feels like home, yeah.  It really does.  I played at Country Club Mobile a lot, and it's very similar to this place, the greens and everything, the Bermuda rough and all that, so pretty comfortable with it.   Q.  You've climbed up the World Rankings, top three now.  What does that do for you?  How much importance and emphasis do you place on that?  ROBBY SHELTON: I don't put much on it.  There is a target on my back, but I don't put too much emphasis on it really at all.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT