NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: SABRES v STARS
June 18, 1999
Michael Peca
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Talking about the determination of the team not to lose in your own building, especially obviously the Stanley Cup.  Can you just talk about that from the teammate's perspective?

MICHAEL PECA:  I think it even goes beyond that.  We don't want to lose regardless of where it is because we want to win it.  But certainly being at home we want to not give a team an opportunity to beat you at home.


Q.  What is your observation on the Warrener injury, how it happened and how the team feels about it?

MICHAEL PECA:  I didn't really see it happen.  I didn't notice the line change.  I was taking a drink of water or something and then when the play happened I didn't see how it had gotten started, but obviously it is an injury that we probably would have liked to have avoided, but we got -- Darryl Shanahan has been probably one of our best defensemen all throughout the regular season and he is looking forward to the opportunity to playing.


Q.  Mike, is Dallas' style mentally frustrating you and how do you keep the patience if they keep playing so well?

MICHAEL PECA:  Well, it can be frustrating because going on the first three rounds and having a lot of good fortune offensively to run into a team that plays very stingy and tough defensively, it can be frustrating but you have got to just keep your head up, keep working hard and hope your breaks come.


Q.  How can you guys pick the pucks to the corners, start to cycle it.  They seem to put their sticks on your sticks every time there is a loose puck in the corner or near the net.

MICHAEL PECA:  Just have more determination, I guess.  We felt we are getting better at it as it is going on, so hopefully we will get a little bit more breaks that way.


Q.  Let me be candid, Mike; a question about you personally. You have been the igniter on this team all year long.  You look worn down.  You look like -- do you have the energy to continue to be the igniter?

MICHAEL PECA:  I do and you can come in with me if you want and watch my weight on the scale.  It is the same as it was during the regular season.  But I think it is just a case where things get frustrating.  When the things get frustrating, you try doing different things to break  through instead of just sticking to what it is that you know brought success to you and the team, so we will look at things and come out with the right frame of mind and certainly doing the right things to get things going.


Q.  There was a time you would look around the locker room you didn't really know who was going to score next, but you knew it was going to be someone.  Do you still have that feeling now or are you thinking can it be somebody?

MICHAEL PECA:  Yeah, we certainly still have that feeling.  Yesterday if we had a couple of bounces go an inch the  other way than the way they went, we'd get scoring from a couple of those guys.  The breaks didn't go our way and we just got to fight harder to gain more breaks and have them go our way.


Q.  Is there a change of attitude or a change of philosophy now that you know you can't afford to lose another game?  You haven't been in this situation yet in this post-season or do you still have to stick with what you guys used to get to this point?

MICHAEL PECA:  You have to stick with what got you here, but you got to do it for the whole 60 minutes.  We can't, you know, try to avoid any swing of momentum in their favor throughout the course of the game.  We got to try and dictate it the whole 60 minutes and, like I said, we want to just go out and convince ourselves to try and be aggressive, not sit back and play like we are worried about losing, rather go out there and play hard and strong and confident.


Q.  Lindy used the term "vicious" when trying to describe how Dallas is with their sticks.  Can you describe what it is like out there and how dirty they are?

MICHAEL PECA:  I will be honest with you.  They are probably the dirtiest team we have ever faced.  I guess part of the thing about experience is they know how to hide all those two-hand slashes and stuff.  But certainly they have gotten a lot of whacks in and but that is part of the game.  That is part of Playoff hockey.  We just got to battle through it.


Q.  Hitch said after the game last night that the first period you played against them was probably the best first period that anybody ever played in that building.  Was it impossible to sustain the energy that you had there?  Did they pick their level up; what happened?

MICHAEL PECA:  I think their level picked up because I don't think it was fatigue.  We had a pretty strong third period as well.  They weren't a team that was going to allow another period like that to happen so they wanted to come back with better effort and kept us in better check.


Q.  As captain is there anything that you do tomorrow, do you speak to the team or do you do anything differently; have you prepared anything?

MICHAEL PECA:  Yeah.  You obviously want to say that you think will make a difference certainly, want to go out and do things that you think will make a difference.


Q.  Your powerplay has been so strong in the first three series and suddenly it doesn't seem to click anymore.  What do you see as the reason?

MICHAEL PECA:  Our success was coming from getting the puck through from the point and getting guys in front and it seems as though we may be a little discouraged in shooting the puck from high now, and their shot blockers have a little to do with that but I think we have moved the puck at times to get in position to shoot the puck, but I think overall all the last three games we have been at -- we have been at work on our powerplay and you are not going to score many goals if you allow four guys on the ice to outwork the five of you.


Q.  Outside the giveaways in Game 4 you really only generated  one offensive goal in the last three games.  Anything left to try to change to try and get something going?

MICHAEL PECA:  I don't know.  I don't think you look at tape for two weeks and watch all the game tape and not come up with things you think aren't going to work.  Obviously we feel there are things.  There is things that we feel that will work.  It is just a matter of working hard and executing.  I think one thing we can do a better job is sticking our nose in front of net and hanging out there a little bit after the first chance and you know, look for rebounds and for second chance opportunities which we haven't been very good at.


Q.  Home ice has meant very little throughout the Stanley Cup Playoffs around the entire League.  Why should things be different for you tomorrow night at home, say, as opposed to the last game of the series?

MICHAEL PECA:  Well, we have always felt very comfortable at home.  I think getting on a roll early in the Playoffs certainly added to our confidence, the fans have been super, it is just a great feeling of comfort for a lot of guys here at home. We have been a strong team at home, last few years, so we are looking to have a very strong performance tomorrow winning that hockey game.


Q.  Your team always seems to rise to the occasion when you are counted out or people don't give you a chance.  Do you feel that people think you are counted out right now don't have a chance of winning it?

MICHAEL PECA:  I don't know.  That doesn't real matter. In that locker room guys don't feel we are; that is the only important thing.


Q.  Before the series you talked about how you felt Derian Hatcher was a dirty player.  Do you feel he is even dirtier than you thought he was or is he just as he is and is that actually something that you kind of admire in a way?

MICHAEL PECA:  Well, I mean he is a guy that every team would love to have, a big strong defensemen that plays nasty in front of their own net and the corners..... Obviously you don't enjoy it when you play against him;  you want to complain about it when it happens to you.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT