NHL AWARDS CEREMONY
June 19, 1997
Michael Peca
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Even for you Mr. Reserve, this has got to be kind of cool?

MICHAEL PECA:  It is.  It is really a great honor.  I was telling people the weeks and months prior to this, knowing I was a nominee, I still hadn't grasped what all this meant. Coming to the city and seeing the big show that is put on, really puts in perspective what this means to me now.  I am thankful to all the hockey writers that they were gracious enough to pick me.  I thank you and hopefully I can continue to improve and not stop here.


Q.  What does it mean as far as your place, young player's place in the NHL, now that you have won a major award like this?

MICHAEL PECA:  Well, I am big on the mental side of the game.  For me, this is going to put me a little bit at ease coming into camp each year.  Years prior, it was always a case where you are coming in wondering where you are going to fit in time to time.  Now, I think this solidifies me somewhat when I come to camp, I know what my job is.  Is makes it a lot easier coming to camp knowing what you got to do and knowing what your job is, mentally that will help me a lot. 


Q.  What do you think about being the underdog winning this, going against Forsberg, who put up better numbers points--

MICHAEL PECA:  To be honest with you, I didn't think about it much that way.  Peter had outstanding years and so did a lot like Rob Zamuner and Sandstrom, a lot of guys are more capable of being up here this evening.


Q.  Does this make all the hard work throughout the year worthwhile, kind of the icing on the cake?

MICHAEL PECA:  It does, especially because our team emphasized that all year long and to have it sugar coated a little bit with this - by no means, is this individual work.  I had linemates and teammates that busted their butts all year long.  Of course, having Dominik Hasek between the pipes makes it a lot easier.


Q.  You said it was for Brian Kilrea, could you --

MICHAEL PECA:  When I got to play for Killer, he didn't only help me as a hockey player and working all parts on my game, but he really molded me into -- I like to consider myself a fine individual and out in the real world, Brian was a man who was real close to me.  I love him very much.  And, I mean, I can't say enough of what his coaching did for my development and I still use some of it today.


Q.  The day of your trade from Vancouver the sentiment was that Buffalo was giving away Alex Mogilny to save salary and  cost and getting much in return.  It is ironic the way it has worked out, not only for you, but for the team.

MICHAEL PECA:  It has.  And I am glad to see that. The other two guys are going to be fine hockey players Jay McKee and Mike Wilson.  When I came in, I didn't want to apply too much pressure to myself.  I knew I was coming into a tough situation.  If I was a fan, I probably would be hassled about the situation. I wanted to prove to the fans in Buffalo they weren't getting a scrub.  That they were getting a guy that was going to work and hopefully be a person and player that they will appreciate some day.


Q.  20 goals to compliment your season, so to speak, how did it feel?

MICHAEL PECA:  It meant a little bit.  Always nicer to look at 20 of the 19, but what made it special, it was my six shorthanded goal.  We were talking about it for a few weeks before that.  I think I went two days or so without scoring, so, it was nice to get the 20th.  My offensive part of my game is something I want to work on a little bit more.  And, hopefully I can have some years when I surpass that.


Q.  What does this do for your bargaining position?  (audience laughter)

MICHAEL PECA:  I am sure it will help it somewhat. But, I just made a long summer.  It certainly is going to be something that is going to be taken care of right away.  They  have got a full plate.  Of course, Buffalo always has a full plate.  But, we have got one.  And, there is a lot of work that has to be done.  I met Darcy Regier today.  He seems like a bright man.  I am sure he is going to get everything done that needs to be done.


Q.  Are you hoping your advice to ownership and management will not go on deaf ears regarding Ted?

MICHAEL PECA:  I hope so.  A lot of other guys, I know share the same feeling.  As far as, you know, I just try not to involve myself in these type of feuds.  I am a Ted fan.  But, I have told a lot of people as well, Ted is a big man and a lot of people want him here, but if he is not, he is going to be a great coach somewhere else.  He will be taken care of.  But, now I need a contract and Michael Peca is probably priority 1 for me right now.  Hopefully we can get through that and I hope we are together at the same time.  If we are not, we will both be fine, I am sure.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT