NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: OILERS v HURRICANES
June 14, 2006
Michael Peca
Ryan Smyth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 MICHAEL PECA:  We said we wanted to have an attacking mentality, wanted to played with confidence right from the outset of the game.  Came out had a good first shift.  Thought we really dictated the played five-on-five, and their power play kept them in the game.  They got three power play goals, five-on-five we really dominated play. 

 Q.  After not scoring in the last few games.  You opened it up early and it kept coming tonight. 
 MICHAEL PECA:  We were creating chances today.  A little hungry around the net, I think, and just seemed like we just came out with some confidence.  Obviously we knew our season was on the line. 
 Just wanted to live in the moment today, didn't want to think too far ahead.  Sure enough we come out with a great effort. 

 Q.  Is that the real Oilers we saw out there tonight? 
 MICHAEL PECA:  I think so.  We had said all along that we hadn't felt like we gotten dominated in the series for a full game and yet we hadn't played our best game.  Tonight I think was pretty close to what we want.  Obviously we like our PK to be a little bit more stable for us, but five-on-five and our power play got involved and it created lot of great chances, pretty rewarding effort. 

 Q.  What was your take on Fernando's winning goal. 
 MICHAEL PECA:  He's such a great breakaway player, he has got a lot of variety when he comes in there and he's scored a lot of big goals for us in these playoffs.  If there's one guy we want going in on that one, it's him.  He has got nerves of steel.  Just gotten better as the season went on and in the playoffs just playing at a level that's pretty impressive and was happy to see him get it. 

 Q.  (Inaudible) talk about ending it on a shorthanded goal. 
 MICHAEL PECA:  It is a little bit of justice for us.  We weren't happy obviously with our penalty kill, kind of flip-flopped from -- not being happy with our power play but our power play was I thought pretty good for us, got a lot of momentum, got a big goal for us.  But five-on-five, that's our game, we dominated play, we were wearing them down.  That's the way the rest of the series is going to be. 
 Game 6 is going to be the same thing.  We need to play five-on-five and continue to grind it out. 

 Q.  Did you have a sense that you were taking a physical toll on them? 
 MICHAEL PECA:  Absolutely.  We didn't want to change anything.  We didn't want to think we had to get into some careless offensive type of game.  We knew that if we play our game, we're not only going to win but if we play the way we want to and execute the things we want to do, which is get the puck in and being physical, it's going to benefit us because we believe we're going to win this game and to continue in the series that type of stuff is going to help us. 

 Q.  (Inaudible). 
 RYAN SMYTH:  Heads up on the play and big time goal right now. 

 Q.  Hemsky too, set up a really nice goal on the offense -- (inaudible). 
 RYAN SMYTH:  Great shot by him on the power play.  We finally capitalized on that and he gave us some momentum.  I thought the depth that we had tonight going up front was good.  We wanted to get everybody involved and our D played really solid defensively and moved the puck up really well and all around we had a better game. 

 Q.  Looked like you guys had confidence all the way through, where did it come from? 
 RYAN SMYTH:  We just wanted to give ourselves a chance, you know, hopefully push it back home, but we didn't want to get -- look past Game 5 and we wanted to go period by period and obviously right from the outset we got a goal at 16 seconds or something.  It was great start for us. 

 Q.  Is this the game though you want to play?  This is the kind of game you want to play? 
 RYAN SMYTH:  No question.  We got to a better level.  Like I said, everybody was going and we capitalized on our chances and we got more to the net and, you know, challenged Ward a little bit more. 

 Q.  (Inaudible) Your thoughts on Raffi Torres.  He had a couple of big hits.  
 RYAN SMYTH:  He's a physical guy.  Obviously gives us momentum with the physical play that he used out there.  He even feeds it off himself, big hits and he gets them offensive chances himself, so it's a win/win and tonight I thought he played hard.  I thought he played an excellent game. 

 Q.  What did you think of Fernando's shot? 
 RYAN SMYTH:  Great patience, picked his head up.  Obviously a lot of people know that he has got a good shot, but obviously shorthanded, overtime, and he put it perfect right up in the corner and it was great to see. 

 Q.  You picked out the silver dollar, whatever, kind of the luck is on your side now? 
 RYAN SMYTH:  Turned out that way tonight.  By no means is this series over, we want to make sure we carry the momentum from tonight into Game 6. 

 Q.  The series continues -- 
 RYAN SMYTH:  Obviously we didn't want to end our season tonight and we showed that for most of the game tonight and obviously came out in the right end for us.  Now we push it to Game 6 and we don't look further than that. 

 Q.  Ironically you get the winner shorthanded -- 
 RYAN SMYTH:  Obviously the special teams have been a huge factor for them.  They have capitalized on their power play and our power play got one tonight, finally we got through that, but shorthanded goal, that's huge for us, and we want to carry that into Game 6. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT