NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: OILERS v HURRICANES
June 4, 2006
Michael Peca
Fernando Pisani
Jarret Stoll
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MICHAEL PECA:  I think it's pretty real for me, everybody, already.  You don't forget about it with the break in the post-season.  With the emotions and everything else, it will probably come a little bit more tomorrow in the morning skate. 
 Q.  This is the first time in two years there's a Stanley Cup Final and with two small-market teams, and the new C.B.A., it's definitely benefitted you. 
 MICHAEL PECA:  I think it's great for the game.  It all depends.  You know, if the game is marketed well the next few years, then smaller market teams are going to get much more exposure.  And then you're not going to get those -- I think those hits when you get the teams on TV in the Stanley Cup Finals. 
 I think it's great for the game and for those markets to have our two teams respecting our respective cities in the Stanley Cup Finals.  Both teams are deserving and really it's a matter of how many people you've got living in a city. 
 Q.  With the economics, do you agree that it's helped? 
 MICHAEL PECA:  I think it has.  Our team was able to go out and get a bunch of players.  Same with Carolina where in the past, you seem to have lost players to trade or free agency. 
 I know both organizations and communities, fan base, we're excited to see that happen and I think it's even more exciting to see the results pay off. 
 Q.  What about the matchups, what is that going to be like for you? 
 MICHAEL PECA:  It won't be too difficult -- when Peter was playing, I got to run him in the corner but he's behind the bench.  There's not going to be any sort of contact within the game. 
 But you know, certainly we have a friendship, we have a history, I really enjoyed playing for him in New York and I have a lot of respect for him as a coach.  He's done a tremendous job with Carolina. 
 Q.  Are you surprised he's gotten the team to the Finals this quickly? 
 MICHAEL PECA:  No, I saw the talent that he had, the determination, the willingness that he had to push himself, to push his team to be successful.  He wanted to be a great coach.  Early on he was finding his way and the Islander organization didn't give him that time to find his way. 
 Things happen for a reason.  He's found a place in Carolina and he's been able to lead the team to the Stanley Cup Finals and it's well deserved. 
 Q.  How much of a difference has he made and what about the makeup of this team? 
 MICHAEL PECA:  Well, they have got a lot of speed, they have a great mix of young players and old players.  The great thing that Pete did is he demands a winning attitude.  He doesn't settle for, you know, mediocrity, we'll make the playoffs and we'll see what happens.  I know he'll probably come into training camp this year saying, we're going to win a Stanley Cup this year and that's all we want to do, that's the only goal we have. 
 You know, they came out of the gates really strong, and they are going to sustain it.  When you're a club that you're that good out of the gate, strong, and you're not expected to and you also sustain it, that's a sign of great coaching and leadership on their team. 
 Q.  Is there a thawing out process? 
 MICHAEL PECA:  I know both teams want to probably get on the offensive right away.  You know, it's funny how human nature sometimes takes over and you get that. 
 Q.  (Inaudible). 
 FERNANDO PISANI:  Once we made the playoffs, it was a huge weight lifted off our shoulders and we could just go out and play.  That was something we needed to do. It's been an up-and-down season and guys have been, once we made the playoffs, guys were able to go out and play and that's what we've done. 
 Q.  Do you look at the post-season as a coming out party for yourself? 
 FERNANDO PISANI:  Yeah, it's a different time of year, exciting time of year and gets us that much more motivated than the regular season. 
 Q.  What about you personally? 
 FERNANDO PISANI:  Well, like I said, playoffs are a special time of year.  I think everybody tries to step their game up a couple of notches.  I've been pretty fortunate to get the goals going in. 
 Q.  (Inaudible). 
 FERNANDO PISANI:  Our fans are pretty excited right now and they have been awesome during the whole season.  Playoff time comes around, it's a different atmosphere.  It's electric.  It's going to be pretty loud. 
 Q.  Without seeing each other for so long, is there any way you can sneak up on them? 
 FERNANDO PISANI:  You know what, I don't think there's any sneaking up at this point in time.  We know their tendencies, they know ours without playing each other, we've watched a lot of film and I'm sure they have watched a lot on us, and I'm sure both teams are going to be well prepared. 
 Q.  What has Michael Peca meant to this team?  Can a guy like that pick it up another gear in the playoffs? 
 FERNANDO PISANI:  He's been solid for us in the playoffs.  He's awesome on faceoffs, he just does the little things well that a lot of people don't notice.  But, you know, as a player and I'm sure the coaching staff knows. 
 Q.  Can you see the leadership in him? 
 FERNANDO PISANI:  Yeah, he's been a great leader.  Just because he's not wearing the A or C doesn't mean he's not a leader.  He's the kind of guy that says the right thing in the bench and the dressing room.  He's well aware of every situation on the ice. 
 Q.  (Inaudible). 
 JARRET STOLL:  Being in my first playoffs, it's been an unbelievable ride so far and I'm sure it's only going to get better.  Hope to keep a level head, you can't get too far ahead of yourself.  You have to stay focused on where you need to be.  We realize when we've got to get to work, and that's tomorrow. 
 Q.  (Inaudible). 
 JARRET STOLL:  It will be a battle.  Definitely it's going to be interesting.  They have got a lot of good shooters out there.  They move the puck pretty quick and they don't waste time out there, they like to get the puck to the net and we're going to have to do a great job blocking shots and not letting them set up the way they want to.  Just make it tough for them and make them force a decision, force a pass, just take them out of their ordinary feel, and that's what we did against Detroit and that's what we're going to have to do here. 
 Q.  What about the unfamiliarity, you haven't played them in the regular season? 
 JARRET STOLL:  That's where you've got to do your scouting, get your video sessions in and learn about them and whoever executes the best is going to win the series.  Discipline, all of these things that come into factor, specialty teams that are huge on playoffs are going to have to be huge again. 
 It's no secret what's going to win this series.  You've just got to execute your system and your game plan to a tee.  They don't know us very well and we don't know them, it's going to be a battle. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT