NHL DRAFT 2017
June 23, 2017
Miro Heiskanen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How do you feel now that it's finished and you know you're going to Dallas?  
MIRO HEISKANEN: Amazing feelings, yeah.  Really nice team, nice talent.  There's a couple guys I know, and it's really nice to be here.   
 Q.  What do you know about the Dallas stars?  
MIRO HEISKANEN: There's a couple of Finnish guys, and great organization and great players and nice area up here.   
 Q.  Did you think they were going to take you?  Had you talked to them?  
MIRO HEISKANEN: Yeah, I've talked to them, but I didn't know that they are picking me.   
 Q.  Have you talked to anyone, any of the Finnish guys from Dallas, leading up to this or after the draft combine?  
MIRO HEISKANEN: No, no, I didn't talk to any Finnish guys.  Only Roope Hintz, we played last year on the same team, so I know him really good.   
 Q.  Talk about what this experience has been for you.  Have you enjoyed yourself year?  
MIRO HEISKANEN: Yeah, of course I enjoyed.  It's amazing.  Always wanted to get drafted, and now it's true, so it's an amazing feeling.   
 Q.  Did you have trouble sleeping last night or what was it like last night or the days leading up to tonight?  
MIRO HEISKANEN: Yeah, I got good sleep.  I'm good sleeping, and yeah.  It wasn't any problem.   
 Q.  How do you feel about coming to play in the United States?  Can you talk a little bit about whether you think this will set a trend for other people from your country coming over to play in the NHL?  
MIRO HEISKANEN: Yeah, of course.  Really different playing in the U.S. and Finland, but I think it helps a lot because Dallas there's a couple of Finnish guys and they can help me, and I think it helps.   
 Q.  Are you excited to come to the U.S.?  
MIRO HEISKANEN: Yeah, of course I'm excited.  Yeah, it's a really nice country, and I like to be here.   
 Q.  You made a very high pick.  Are you satisfied with your pick position?  What does that mean to you?  
MIRO HEISKANEN: Of course it's a really big thing, third overall is really good, I think, and always dreamed of that, and now it's true.  So it's really nice.   
 Q.  What do you think the best part of your game is and why it might be good to be -- to have that in the NHL?  What part of your game is best suited for the NHL do you think?  
MIRO HEISKANEN: I think my hockey sense and skating.  Those are the biggest strengths for me.   
 Q.  What do you know about the way the Stars play, the style, anything like that?  
MIRO HEISKANEN: No, I don't know that much.   
 Q.  Roope, fellow countryman Julius Honka, do you know anything about those guys?  
MIRO HEISKANEN: Yeah, I played with Roope last year and I know him really well, so I think that's really good, good for me, that I know a couple guys there.  Yeah, Julius Honka, yeah, of course.   
 Q.  You just found out what team you're going to, but do you envision yourself spending a couple more years in Finland and then coming over here?  
MIRO HEISKANEN: It's hard to say because let's see where I am in September.   
 Q.  What was today like?  Were you anxious?  
MIRO HEISKANEN: Yeah, a little bit nervous, of course.  A really big day for me.  But now it's true, get drafted, and I'm really happy.   
 Q.  Is this how you dreamed it would be?  
MIRO HEISKANEN: Yeah.   
 Q.  Your family, who do you have here with you?  
MIRO HEISKANEN: Mom, dad and sister.   
 Q.  What was that moment like when they get to hear your name, as well?  What was that like for you to share that with your family?  
MIRO HEISKANEN: I think, of course, they are really happy, happy for me, and they are always -- always been -- made that day possible, and now it's possible, and of course I think they are really happy for me.   
 Q.  What do you think about early morning practices and the stuff that when you were a kid, getting your new equipment, things like that?  
MIRO HEISKANEN: Yeah, they were always helping me, do everything for me, and I can't thank -- I have to thank really lots of them.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT