ANA INSPIRATION
March 30, 2018
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Pretty solid overall, how are you feeling this week?
PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, today I hit ten greens, not as good as yesterday.  Today I made some good putts, but didn't make as many as I probably should have.  The golf course is in great shape.  It's a big difference between afternoon rounds and morning rounds.  They're just so much softer in the morning.
Q. That's the biggest difference, you think?  Does it affect other parts of the game?
PAULA CREAMER: No, I mean, it's difficult when you're missing greens.  You have to be able to have good chipping out here, and the greens are so much firmer than what we're used to, even when you're chipping.  You can be a little more aggressive in the morning with your irons.  The ball just goes so far in the afternoon.  It plays a little different.
Q. From what you worked on in the off-season, do you feel like that's starting to click a little bit?
PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, this is my sixth tournament round in six months since I didn't make the cut the last two tournaments.  But, yeah, it's just being patient and knowing that we're doing good stuff and working for reasons like this and all these swing changes we're making are for later down the road.
It's easy to get wrapped up right away and come out and have expectations to be so high.  But right now it's more focusing on kind of taking it under pressure.
Q. And the work continues or you at a spot where you're consistent?
PAULA CREAMER: Oh, no, yeah, it's definitely continuing.  We changed my whole putting this week.  I've been a right-hand putter for 15 years, and now I'm a left-hand putter, and that happened this week.  So we're definitely just trying to make as many changes within reason, as we can, and I can still come out here and feel confident.
Q. So you switched from regular to cross?
PAULA CREAMER: No, it's still this way, it's just putting more with my left hand than my right hand.  You see people putt with one hand out here, I've always done right hand, and now I'm doing left hand.  It's a whole philosophy and everything, and the way my eye line is.  But just trusting that more and more.
Q. Had you done that before at all?
PAULA CREAMER: No, huh-uh.  I've done left-hand low, but still felt like this was strong, but still my right hand was kind of in control.  Now my left hand is in total control.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT