MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 21, 2013
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   What a good battle between and you Beatriz.   Talk about coming down the stretch and being in such a close contest.
PAULA CREAMER:   No, it was.   My goodness, there were so many great shots played today and some big putts.   I definitely can look at myself in the mirror and say I gave it 110%. 
I talked to Kathy Whitworth last night and I talked to Nancy Lopez just kind of picking their brains a little bit.   They both said just to go out there and fight as hard as you can.   Either way, win or lose, know that you did as good as you could.   And I can honestly say I did. 
Do I wish I could go back and maybe change a couple of things here and there?   Yes.   But I played great.   I really did.   Beatriz just played one shot better.   She just said in her speech as well that it came down to one putt.   Through all that golf out there, it's kind of funny how it comes down to the wire.
But I am pleased.   Am I bummed?   Yeah, super bummed.   But that's what it is.   I feel really good being back in this spot and tasting that a little bit of pressure and excitement coming down the stretch.
MODERATOR:   You've been playing really good golf lately, really solid.   You played 67, 67 on the weekend and didn't win, which is hard to swallow.
But going into a major next week and then Solheim coming up, you have to be kind of pleased. 
PAULA CREAMER:   Yeah, of course.   You know, like I said, my game is coming along.   I've always been kind of in contention, right around there, but this was a good week for me to start off strong on Thursday and Friday and then continued it on the weekend.
But this is what I've been working hard for.   I've been just grinding away, and it's starting to pay off.   All in all, I've always said golf is a marathon, not a sprint.   I just want to continue this up and we'll see what happens going into St. Andrews.
MODERATOR:   Questions for Paula? 

Q.   She took the lead for good on 14, but at 16 you hit it really close.   Looked like you were going to tie it up. 
PAULA CREAMER:   Yeah, that's golf.   I mean, probably if it was reversed there hopefully I would have done the same.   It was great.   I made a birdie; she made a birdie on the next hole.   Then I would make a birdie and she was make one on the next hole.
That's fun.   Like I said, I had fun out there.   It was good golf.   She made a bomb on that hole but almost missed the one on 17.   17's pin placement was kind of weird.   I hit a great putt there and then really didn't even hit kind of hit the hole really and I played it where I wanted.
But that 14, I hit a great shot in there.   It was just a little bit too much and I left myself with a really tough putt.   She had a straight uphill 10‑footer.   You know, that's the difference right there. 

Q.   Was that awfully similar to what could be happening at the Solheim Cup with match play and you on opposite sides?
PAULA CREAMER:   Oh, definitely.   I felt it, I know she probably did out there, a little pre‑game into Solheim.   I love match play.   It felt like match play, yes.
But at the same time, you're playing the golf course.   Coming down the stretch of course you're playing each other.   But it was good.   Definitely has your juices going for the next couple of weeks. 

Q.   Can you talk a little bit about calling Lopez and Whitworth, how do you have the comfort level to talk to them and how you tap into that? 
PAULA CREAMER:   Actually, they have been there.   I've known Kathy since I was about 16 years old when I played in her event out in Texas.   She's just taken me under her wing.   She's my best‑kept secret, that's for sure.
She's just amazing.   When I hear her speak, the world just stops.   What she's done for women's golf winning 88 times, there is nothing cooler than that.   When someone wants to help, just whoever it is, I'm lucky it is me.   I just can't say enough about that.
I am sure she has many things to be doing.   To take the time to try to help me become a better golfer, that's amazing.   I'm blessed for that. 
And Nancy has been there since I ‑‑ I won the Nancy Lopez Award when I was about 17 years old.   So just one year after Kathy.   So it's is neat when you can turn your phone on and you see these text messages from them.   It's pretty special.   They gave me some great words of wisdom, as they have for the past 10 years. 

Q.   Seems like from the time you stepped in here Wednesday you've genuinely had a good time, even more than previous years. 
PAULA CREAMER:   I have.   100%.   I'm in a really good place right now.   I'm very happy.   I just love what I do.   I always have.   But I think over the last couple months I've just been embracing my life out here.   You have to grow up so fast.   I've been here since I was 18 years old and I'm 26 now. 
There is just a little bit different level that you go through.   I think my new role, I have a new role out here.   I'm embracing it and learning how to deal with certain things.   I'm not a little kid anymore; but at the same time, I learn something new every day.   The day that I stop learning out here we have to start worrying a little bit.
But I do.   I'm so happy.   Been working really hard, like I said and being able to not only play good golf.   I mean, everybody is happy when they play good golf, but just fighting through things, adversity, perseverance, things like that, that's what I'm proud of most. 

Q.   You've been coming here about eight years now.   Looks like physically you've filled out and strengthened yourself.   Are you on a rigorous training program? 
PAULA CREAMER:   Are you saying I look fat? 

Q.   No, not at all.   You look strong. 
PAULA CREAMER:   So I look big is what you're saying?   (Laughing.)

Q.   Talk about your training. 
PAULA CREAMER:   No, I definitely have worked out a lot more.   After surgery I was able to do a lot more strengthening.   I filled out.   I'm not 18 anymore.   I'm not that little girl. 
But I have been.   I love working out and being in shape.   I think it's such an important thing, especially when it's this hot out.   It plays a huge factor in things. 
But overall, I know that my body is my job.   I don't want ever to look back and say I stopped playing golf because of an injury or something that I didn't do now.   That's one of the main reasons I work so much, is prevent those things.   Flexibility, strength.   I try to keep it up on the road as much as I possibly can.

Q.   If you're not the little kid anymore, Lexi may be.   So you see her in that role now?   Do you talk about that? 
PAULA CREAMER:   No, I mean, 26 isn't old by any means, but these days two seem like it's ancient out here.   Lexi is a good friend of mine.   I play a lot of golf with her.   It's fun to see the youth of golf.   That's where I was.
Actually, I wasn't out here.   I mean, I came out when I was 18.   But it is, it's exciting to see that.   She has a lot of talent.   She works hard.   She's going to have a great week at Solheim Cup.   I can't wait to be there and watch her face when she steps out on that first tee.   It's going to be priceless.
But that's fun that I get to kind of help her, and hopefully I can ‑ not as a mentor in a sense ‑ but just be there if she ever has any questions.   I've been in her shoes.
MODERATOR:   Any more questions? 
All right.   Good luck in St. Andrews. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT