MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 20, 2013
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PAULA CREAMER:   I love this feeling.   I haven't felt it for a while.   I've normally been chasing the leaders, but this is great.   This is right where I wanted to be.   We'll have a good day tomorrow and see what happens.

Q.   Talk about the round today.   What was your overall feeling? 
PAULA CREAMER:   I played pretty consistent today.   I obviously wish I could have made a couple more birdies here and there.   I gave myself plenty of opportunities.   But it played totally different, the golf course.   It played a lot longer; a lot of the tee boxes were moved back, so it was probably a little bit tougher.   However, you can still make birdies out there once you get going. 
The greens are really receptive, tomorrow they will be a little bit firmer, but not much has changed.

Q.   Is this going to be match play between and you Beatriz tomorrow? 
PAULA CREAMER:   There are a lot of people in the mix.   You can get hot out here and shoot a low number, so I can't worry too much about what she's doing.   I've got to go out and play my own game because there are going to be a lot of players that can fire at pins and post a low score.   I'll just have to make as many birdies as I can.

Q.   You've had a bit of a dry spell since the last time you won here.   How much do you anticipate trying to put an end to that tomorrow? 
PAULA CREAMER:   No, I obviously, this is what I want.   I've never made a secret of how much I like to win and be in contention.   But at the same time, I haven't given myself this opportunity too many times.   So it's here, and we'll see how I can handle it tomorrow.

Q.   What do you anticipate being what you have to get done to separate yourself from the rest of the pack, because it's a pretty tight pack tomorrow? 
PAULA CREAMER:   Yeah, I'm going to have to make as many birdies as I can, eliminate the bogeys.   I didn't have any bogeys today which was a positive.   But just to continue what I've been doing for the last three days.

Q.   The rain last night, did that kind of help you open things up a little bit? 
PAULA CREAMER:   You know, it just changed the golf course.   You can fire at pins a little bit more.   Not as much thinking of where you need to land the ball.   But at the same time, you have to control your spin with certain shots, and it's more you're off tees where it's really changed instead of really hitting into the greens.   It's more tee shots that have changed.

Q.   So far this week what have you found out here that's been lacking in your game recently or in the past few years?   Is it something that you've put together out here this week that's above and beyond what you've done? 
PAULA CREAMER:   I've made more putts.   That's always a helpful thing.   Just, I started off a lot better than I have in most events.   Kind of put myself in a good spot after Thursday, and came out and played well on Friday.   Today, just kind of kept it going.   So I think the first couple of rounds are a lot better than what I've been doing in the past.

Q.   Do you play very much with Beatriz? 
PAULA CREAMER:   Not much.   A couple times here and there, I played with her at Kia; I played with her at Texas.   That's really it.   Maybe a couple times last year.

Q.   What kind of a player is she? 
PAULA CREAMER:   She's steady.   Hits a lot of fairways and greens, gives herself a lot of opportunities to make birdies.   But at the same time there are so many players out there that you have to kind of be aware of.   But she's definitely going to be fighting until the end, for sure.

Q.   Considering the season Inbee has had, does it surprise you that she's not in contention? 
PAULA CREAMER:   Yeah.   She's just unbelievable right now.   She's playing so great.   You can't play great every week, but she's still right in the mix.   Even for that, everybody's kind of surprised you don't see her at the top.   But you still can't‑‑ what she's done is remarkable. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT