MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 19, 2013
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Were the conditions much the same today as yesterday? 
PAULA CREAMER:   No.   I mean, they played a little bit harder out there today.   You know, the breeze definitely was picking up.   I know in the morning it was pretty dead yesterday.   A little bit of breeze in the afternoon.
But it was a different golf course today.   It was getting a little bit firmer and some of the pin placements were a little tougher than they were yesterday, so a little bit harder to get close to the hole.

Q.   Heading into the weekend with a good shot at this, how do you feel coming up here?
PAULA CREAMER:   I feel great.   I feel confident.   Hitting the ball well.   Gave myself tons of opportunities today.   Started off well but didn't hit many good shots the first couple holes.   But just kind of grinded through it, fought through it, I should say.
But just two more days.   I love it out here.   The fans are great.   Just importantly just trying stick to my game plan and see what happens.

Q.   When you go into the weekend in the lead or really near the top, do you get a little bit more excited to play?
PAULA CREAMER:   I'm always excited to be out here.   Every day is a new day.   Obviously when you're in contention it's what you play for, it's what you want, it's why you practice as hard as you do.
It's exciting to be in the top.   It'll be fun going out tomorrow.   We'll see what happens.   But I can only control myself.   Hopefully I can continue doing what I've been doing the last two days.

Q.   If it rains tonight, do you think that changes anything at all?   Do you think people will go for more birdies? 
PAULA CREAMER:   We never know if it's going to rain or how much, if it's a little bit or not.   Yeah, obviously the golf course will change.   Hopefully it doesn't get too much rain because it's getting tougher with the fairways kind of running it here and there. 
Like I said, we'll see what happens in the morning and kind of take the game plan knowing that. 

Q.   The longer it goes, do you have more appreciation for that 60 you shot few years ago?
PAULA CREAMER:   That was an awesome round.   Yeah, I think yesterday I had a ton of opportunities to go low; today I did as well.   Obviously a little bit different, but a 60 out here anywhere is a good score.
Do I feel like I can do it again?   Sure.   Why not?   It was fun doing it. 

Q.   So 60 is just a good score?
PAULA CREAMER:   No, it's a great score.   It's not 59, but it's not 61, so...

Q.   Second round 68 in much tougher conditions.   In some way was that round better than the first?
PAULA CREAMER:   It was.   Definitely played a lot tougher.   You could go low yesterday in the morning and it was a little bit different conditions today.
But it's still out there.   The fairways are starting to firm up.   You're not hitting super long putts into some of these holes.   Starting to hit a little bit more wedges here and there. 
There are definitely some tucked pins.   Kind of got to be aggressive when you can and make your pars when it's necessary.

Q.   You talked on Wednesday about experience meaning so much around this golf course. 
PAULA CREAMER:   Uh‑huh.

Q.   When the conditions get difficult like this, does that play even more into your experience?
PAULA CREAMER:   I think so.   You know when to step on the gas and when not to.   When you get a rhythm going on out here it kind of takes care of itself.
Experience in any case takes care of the issues that you have out there.   Just being confident.   I have so much confidence out here, and the fans have been so great over the years.   I kind of feel like I have a little extra bonus with them in my back pocket.

Q.   (Indiscernible.)
PAULA CREAMER:   Definitely.   You know, I did shoot 60.   I didn't even know I shot 60 that day.   That's saying something about your golf.
At the same time, I do.   I feel like you can come out here, and if you do well at par‑5s and make a little one you have run there, for sure you can.
But if it stays like this then a 60 might not be attainable, but you never know. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT