U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2013
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   That was a hard 14.  
PAULA CREAMER:   I was very excited about 14 today.   That was my moment out on the golf course was two‑putting that hole today.  
   
 Q.   In general, how about your day?   
PAULA CREAMER:   I started off really strong.   I only had one bad swing, really, almost the whole day and it happened on 8 with that 5‑wood over those trees.   It was a downhill lie, and I had to hit a good shot.   But if I would go back, sure, would I aim a little farther left?   Of course.   
But I played great.   My caddie, Colin, did such a great job with all the numbers and everything.   I mean, we just stayed so focused out there.   It was out there.   You definitely could have moved up the board.   That kind of took some wind out of my sails, but still finished strong.  
   
 Q.   I was talking before to some of the Americans about how in some ways with Inbee being so good, the American public, we expect to win.   This is America.   It's almost like it's unfair not only to the American players, but to the Asian players that they don't realize what a global sport it is.   Do you have some thoughts about that?   
PAULA CREAMER:   We are a global sport.   I mean, golf is obviously played all around the world.   But when you have your National Championship, of course, everybody in America is rooting for an American.   And that's when we go over to the British Open, it's the opposite for that one and that kind of thing.   We're used to that.   
You know, you still can't take away what Inbee's doing.   She's just playing so good.   It's elevating the game right now.   You know, you just have to keep on going with her and we'll see what happens.  
   
 Q.   Probably kind of had a taste of this, but is it an important thing for the publicity and the vision of the Tour to have an American champion?   
PAULA CREAMER:   Oh, a hundred percent, sure.   An American champion, obviously being here in the states, is something that we all look at with the U.S. Open.   But golf is played all over the world, and there are so many great golfers from other countries, and we're lucky enough that this is our home base to be able to play out of.   You know, the American girls, I mean, I played with Angela today in the last couple groups.   It was her and I as the Americans there.   
But it's coming.   I think that it's just really about junior golf and giving little kids the opportunity to play the game, and they do that in every other country, and I think we need to kind of get a little bit better at that for the future of women's golf and men's golf.  
   
 Q.   Almost all of the non‑Americans live here?  
PAULA CREAMER:   Uh‑huh, yes.  
   
 Q.   It's tough.   
PAULA CREAMER:   Exactly.  
   
 Q.   Talking about Inbee a little bit.   I mean, Annika came close.   She won the first two.   Yani was pretty dominant, but she couldn't do it.   What Inbee's doing and in such a dominant fashion, she's about to win by four, to come into third with all that pressure.   Can you put that into context?   You've been up there and you know the pressure?  
PAULA CREAMER:   Yeah, it's impressive.   I wish I could sit there and ask her that question and listen to what she was really thinking and what she would really say.   It's amazing when anybody dominates any sport.   Right now that's what she's doing.   
To do it three majors in a row, that's pretty awesome.   That's something that you're on a very short list there in men and women's golf.   And I think that is definitely something that‑‑ do I wish it was me?   Sure, hundred percent.   Does it make me work harder?   Even more.   
But to be able to have played junior golf with her and grown up with her in a sense, it's nice to see someone that you know, and she works really hard and it's paying off.  
   
 Q.   Like you said, you have played with her a lot.   Is there something in her game, in her demeanor, that would have led you to believe?  
Everybody sees her demeanor out there.   She's the most‑‑ you don't even know if she has a pulse out there half the time.   Doesn't matter if it's a good shot or a bad shot, I think I've seen her actually smile maybe ten times.   But that's just who she is and that's how she plays.   You can't take that away from her.   
You watch me, and I wear my heart on my sleeve.   Everybody's different.   Does that mean I have to do what she does?   No, not necessarily.   But I think that her demeanor is obviously something that's very important to her.   She's one of the best putters I've ever seen.   And she just literally makes everything.   When you go against somebody like that, it's tough to beat.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT