U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 2013
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Even is pretty strong in these conditions?
PAULA CREAMER:   Yeah, goodness, I played really solid front nine, 2‑under, felt really good. 
Actually made a great butt on 11 for par just did a horseshoe out, so made bogey there.
I don't know, I've bogeyed 14 every single day, so tomorrow my goal is just to make a par on 14 and move on.

Q.   At that point in the tournament, you may need that?
PAULA CREAMER:   You never know, exactly.

Q.   Do you feel like you did enough to at least maybe think about‑‑
PAULA CREAMER:   My goal is to get it under par.   Obviously that's a good round out here.   The pin placements were really tough.   They obviously saw 9‑under was leading and they are going to make it as hard as they can, which they should.   It's still fair.   I still think it's out there. 
I think that this golf course is awesome when it's this windy.   You've got to be a great ball striker.   You have got to be creative.   You've got to use a lot of the slopes. 
The greens were probably a little bit quicker today.   They're going to dry out a little bit more come tomorrow.   If I can post another good number, it'll be a good tournament. 

Q.   Is this a course that you can make a run like that at or do you try to stay patient and wait for them to fall back?
PAULA CREAMER:   It's a little bit of both.   I'm kind of far behind, so I have got to make some birdies. 
At the same time, this golf course is all about playing your own game and playing your game plan.   When you do have opportunities to try to capitalize on them. 
I had some coming down the stretch.   It was unfortunate I couldn't make a birdie on that one par‑5, 13.   It was just up in front.   Then I bogeyed the next hole.   I kind of felt like I gave almost two shots away there.   I could have been sitting 2‑under par and I'm even at that point or 1‑over, yeah, 1‑over for the par right there.
You can do it.   You can.   There is going to be some tee box changes of course tomorrow and just got to take what it gives you.

Q.   Is there a possible there's a since of exasperation among the players to try and catch Park these days the way she's playing?
PAULA CREAMER:   Inbee is playing awesome.   You can't take that away from her.   She is just playing fantastic golf.   What are you going to do when you go against someone that's hot?   You have got to kind of match her and practice harder, work harder.   She is one of the best putters I think I've ever seen.   Right now she's just literally making everything.   It helps when you are good ball striker too.

Q.   When you are battling the elements and everything else today, are you sneaking a look at the board at all?
PAULA CREAMER:   Well, yeah, of course, I look at it when I'm out there every once in a while.
My goal at Oakmont in the last couple of Opens was not even to pay attention to leaderboards.   I'm going to try to do that tomorrow and just stick to my game plan, maybe make some birdies early on.   If not, maybe make them coming down the stretch.   They are going to happen either way and try not to let too many shots slip away.

Q.   You've won a major before.   How difficult is it‑‑ Inbee has already won two, and now she's chasing a third.   Just to stay in that mental capacity, that moment, how tough is it? 
PAULA CREAMER:   It's remarkable.   I mean, we could watch history tomorrow of what she has been doing.   Like I said, winning a major, one major, is tough enough.   Winning three in a row, that's pretty impressive. 
But there's a lot of golf left too at the same time.   There's some girls in between going to be chasing her and have got nothing to lose.   We'll see what happens.

Q.   What do you like at your game and how do you leverage that to maybe get a few under par?
PAULA CREAMER:   I have been really making my saves.   When I do miss shots, I have been getting up‑and‑down making couple 6‑, 7‑footers. 
The thing that I wish I could a little bit better was make the ones that I have for birdie.   At the same time, it all evens out.   I wish I could‑‑ I've hit the ball really well.   Like I said, if you look at my cards the last three days, I really haven't had too many mistakes.   I haven't made enough birdies, but I also haven't given too many away.   I think I've given three for sure away on 14.   That is my hole, my bogey hole.   Tomorrow it's not going to happen.

Q.   Is it the kind of day where it felt like par should have been about 76? 
PAULA CREAMER:   Yes and no.   There are some really interesting homes, but like I said you can still make birdies.   For me, even teeing off, when I went through the pin sheet before we played, I still could have figured under par would be a phenomenal round.   Maybe even is a great round.   I would have taken that too.

Q.   Just take us through the birdies you made today?
PAULA CREAMER:   I don't even remember my birdies.   I birdied 2.   Yeah, I made about a 20‑footer.   I hit my drive right and then hit a little rescue to about 20feet, made that.
I birdied 9, hit a wedge to about 4 feet, 5feet. 
Bogeyed 11, missed a 6‑footer.   I was in the front bunker, missed about a 6‑footer.
Bogeyed 14, missed about a 7‑footer.
And that was it.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT