U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2013
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tell us about the conditions today?   The wind has been blowing, right? 
PAULA CREAMER:   Yeah, it was.   This is kind of how this golf course should be played.   Windy and kind of gritty and all that kind of stuff.   Playing‑wise yesterday was kind of a calmer day and lower numbers, but it's hard.   There are a lot of numbers, a lot of thinking, lots of shots out there.   I'm exhausted.   I.K. has been playing so good the last few days.   You feel like you're shooting a hundred over, and I'm only 1‑over par, but she's playing really well even in these conditions. 
But it's out there.   It's still out there.   If you make some putts, I just haven't really made any putts.   I've hit the ball really well.   Colin and I have done a good job with numbers and things, just not really capitalizing when I need to, but I made some good saves too.

Q.   The pins on the chute looked a little harder, were they? 
PAULA CREAMER:   Yeah, they're just more tucked in little areas.   It was a little different wind today than it was.   It's predominantly the same this way.   But it's like 8, for instance, the par‑5, it's not straight down.   Today it's more left, right and we are all the way back at the box.   So they tucked the pin behind the bunker making things a little bit more difficult. 
But you can still use the ridges everywhere.   It's just knowing when to be a little more aggressive, and when not to be.

Q.   You know, you're not that far off.   A lot can happen on the weekend.   How do you feel about it? 
PAULA CREAMER:   I feel really good.   If I could make half the putts that some of these girls are making right now.   If you look at my card, I think I've had four bogeys, maybe, and three birdies, something like that.   Not a lot that's been going on my scorecard which is a good thing.   That's what U.S. Opens are all about is just maintaining and kind of grinding it out.   Hopefully, I can have a good day tomorrow and put myself somewhat in contention going into Sunday. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT