HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 28, 2013
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What a great round today, beware the injured golfer I guess?
PAULA CREAMER:   Yeah, it's my first time on this golf course and everything, and at the beginning of the round, I really couldn't feel my right side and I didn't know if I was going to be able to even go. 
But I called my dad and talked to him a little bit and I just said, what do you think, and he said, well, completely up to you, and just kind of went out.   And thank goodness it's hot here.   I couldn't do it if it was cold. 
But it shows how much, Colin, he's such a good caddie, he just points and directs me of where to go, so take my hat off to him really.

Q.   To get through the front nine, seems like by the scoring a little bit tougher, were you in any doubt to start it off or did you feel good once you got going? 
PAULA CREAMER:   I may be around 5 or 6 started to get a little bit more feeling back into my right side.   Just took it really one shot at a time.   I was just graduate to be out there and playing.   Like I said, I have no expectations whatsoever this week.   It's just really to get out there and try to play some golf.

Q.   Do you think you'll get expectations now that you've had such a good round going into tomorrow, or do you still feel lucky to be playing?
PAULA CREAMER:   No, just lucky to be playing.   I think that sometimes things like that change your mind‑set for a lot of things, and thank goodness I had the third‑‑ you're so much more relaxed out there.   It could be so much worse of the it's unfortunate like that that accidents do make you realise, but I do believe everything happens for a reason and maybe that's what I needed. 

Q.   You had your first look at the course properly; how did you find it?   Lots of players think it's playing quite tough. 
PAULA CREAMER:   It's a great golf course.   I think it's a really‑‑ you have to hit some good golf shots.   You have to think, your caddie has to do a lot of numbers out there.   You definitely don't hit drivers, that many. 
It's a really positioning kind of golf course, and even from there, you're hitting some long irons into holes, and it's a very, very good test of golf, especially with how big the greens are, they can put the pins in so many places. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT