SUNRISE LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY AUDI
October 25, 2012
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   All right.   We'd like to welcome Paula Creamer into the interview room.   Congratulations.   A nice 3‑under par round today for you.   Can you just take me through your round out there and what was really working well for you?   
PAULA CREAMER:   Yeah.   You know, I didn't hit the ball quite as well as I wanted to.   However, I made some good birdies and just tried to kind of plot my way around as much as I could and try and finish strong at the par‑5 on 18, but kind of just misjudged that wedge shot and it was a little bit unfortunate there.   It would have been nice to finish with a birdie.   
THE MODERATOR:   This is your first time playing this golf course.   What are some of the keys to this golf course and how different did it play today with the wind not being very strong out there?   
PAULA CREAMER:   The wind kind of picked up on the last four or five holes and kind of had to play for it a little bit more there.   But this golf course is all about the pin placements, too, where they're going to put it tucked in these big greens, and it was good to get my first round in competition is always different than a practice round.   So this was a nice way to start, and just going to have to make a lot of ‑‑ make some birdies on the next three days.  
THE MODERATOR:   Last week you played in Japan and finished sixth.   How did you feel about the state of your game kind of heading into this week, and is there any specific things that you're working on at the moment?   
PAULA CREAMER:   I feel pretty solid with where my game is at, just trying to really eliminate the mistakes and make as many birdies as I possibly can, but continue working on my golf swing and having new confidence with my putting and hopefully be in contention on Sunday.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Paula?  
   
 Q.   Is it your putting that has helped you make more birdies today?  
PAULA CREAMER:   A little bit of both.   A little bit of not getting it close enough with certain shorter shots, and also not quite making the 10, 15‑footers.   
I kind of struggled a little bit with the speed early on and then kind of found my way throughout the round.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT