RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
September 16, 2012
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just talk me through those last four holes.   
PAULA CREAMER:   Oh, my goodness.   We had that little break on the par3, 15, and I had about a six‑, seven‑footer and it kind of just got all sort of back together.   I made that and had a lot of confidence the last couple holes.   
It's a great way to finish.   I played really well.   Even, you know, before that, I was hitting the ball well.   It's just one of those things where the putter kind of let me down at times, but you know, overall in the big picture, I'm pretty pleased with how I played this week.  
   
 Q.   Tell us a couple of horror stories of when the weather came in.   
PAULA CREAMER:   Horror stories, my goodness, I don't think I've played‑‑ it was like we were standing under a shower.   That's the best way I can describe it.   It was hard, my goodness gracious.   I've always said Solheim in Sweden was one of the toughest conditions I've ever played in.   I think this tops that, for sure.   
   
 Q.   Looks like you're going to come up one place shy for two straight weeks.   Is it just down to the putting?   I know it was a little bit frustrating at times out there.   You let your frustrations show, but how close are you?   
PAULA CREAMER:   No, I feel very close.   I hit the ball great.   I cannot take away from my ball‑striking.   That was definitely not the issue.   It was my putting for sure.   And a little bit speed related in some aspects and you know, I'm going to take a couple weeks off and try and refresh.   
But I have to continue moving forward with everything that I'm doing because like I said, I feel really good about where I'm at.   It's just a couple things here and there.   
   
 Q.   Is that the beginning of a little Shin/Creamer rivalry?   You'll get the better of her one day.   
PAULA CREAMER:   Well, you always want to get compared to the best or the people that are playing the best.   She's showing right now why she won last week and why she most likely is going to win this week.  
   
 Q.   Ready for a holiday?   
PAULA CREAMER:   Yes, I'm ready for a week off.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT