SAFEWAY CLASSIC PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
August 18, 2012
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  KELLY THESIER:   We'd like to welcome Paula Creamer into the interview room.   Congratulations, a solid round, 3‑under par today.   You find yourself right up there near the top of the leaderboard again.   Take me through the day out there and what was working well? 
PAULA CREAMER:   I didn't miss many greens, only a couple.   I hit all on the back, and maybe missed one or two on the front.   Just gave myself opportunities.   Couldn't really make any putts out there.   I wanted to finish around 9 or 10.   That was my goal.   I didn't quite get there, but it is what it is. 
I seemed to keep progressing and have to continue doing what I've been working on on the range.   I know the putts will fall, so just see what happens tomorrow.
KELLY THESIER:   Just a few weeks ago we saw you in contention on the back side on Sunday at the Evian Masters.   How much is that experience and getting those juices flowing again and that run you can put yourself on going to help you tomorrow as you look to do the same thing again? 
PAULA CREAMER:   Well, nobody wants it more than I do, that's for sure.   I love the feeling of pressure.   I love striving to be the best and trying to chase someone down is what I like to do.   Hopefully I can start off strong on the big part of the golf course, 8, 9, and 10.   I hope to do well on a couple of those three holes and who knows what will happen. 
This golf course, if you get a little bit too far ahead of yourself, you never know what's going to happen.   So you have to pick and choose where you can be aggressive.   The other holes you just take your pars and move on.   However, I'm pretty far.   Where am I?   4‑back, so it's not terrible, but I'm going to have to shoot a low number tomorrow.

Q.   Talking to Cristie, she said she expects to see low numbers tomorrow just the way this golf course is playing.   Have you set a number in your mind what you think you're going to have to hit? 
PAULA CREAMER:   I would say I'd have to shoot around 7‑under to give myself a chance.   You wake up in the morning, and you never know what's going to happen.   The biggest thing I think is you're playing in the afternoon.   The greens aren't quite as pure in the morning.   Some people are 5, 6 behind, and you're going to have a little bit more.   You can go low in the morning. 
It's going to kind of play a key factor going into the back nine, but you can't control everybody else.   You just have to go out and do your own thing.

Q.   (Indiscernible). 
PAULA CREAMER:   That's golf.   It happens to everybody.   You never want to see that.   As a golfer, you never want to watch somebody struggle and this and that.   It's not a fun thing.   We've all been there.   You have to try to stay in your own world.   Probably I should have sat down a little earlier.   I was reading my putt a little bit too much.   And it doesn't happen often, so it's also kind of a learning experience for me too. 
I'll know what to do next time, but it's tough, especially on the 17th hole.   You don't want that to happen to anybody. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT