EVIAN MASTERS PRESENTED BY SOCIETE GENERALE
July 27, 2012
Paula Creamer
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   Welcome to the 2012 Evian Masters.   We're doing something a little bit different here.   We thought we would bring in two players who have played the last 36 holes together:   Stacy Lewis, who is tied for the lead, and Paula Creamer, who is tied for third right now.
Stacy, we'll start with you as a co‑leader.   Obviously you're playing great.   You have been playing great all year.   What went right for you today? 
STACY LEWIS:   Today was actually a little bit more of a struggle for me.   I wasn't really sure how I would play coming off a good score yesterday.   It's hard when you make pars and you feel like you're going backwards because of all the birdies I made yesterday.
It wasn't the best, but I made two birdies late and fought through it.   Pretty happy today.
MODERATOR:   Paula, obviously a fantastic shot there on 18 to close the day.   You crept up the leaderboard all day and put yourself in a great position.   You're a past champion here, so a lot of great feelings.   Take us through year day.
PAULA CREAMER:   No, I only missed two greens today, which is a lot better than yesterday.   One of my strengths in my game is irons and just giving myself opportunities, and today I kind of took advantage of that and made some good putts and also left some out there. 
It will be an exciting weekend, that's for sure.   Hopefully the weather holds off for us, too. 
MODERATOR:   What's the best thing you've done here this week in Evian Masters ‑ aside from your golf game? 
PAULA CREAMER:   I went over to Lausanne the other day.   It's my second time there.   I went actually the year I won and wanted to go back over.   I wanted to go to the Olympic Village but it was closes. 
But still it's a beautiful place over there.   Really just trying different kinds of foods and trying to embrace the culture over here.
MODERATOR:   Stacy, you've been having a great year; you've got a couple wins under your belt; you've been climbing up the Rolex Rankings.   Just take us through your year for those who might not be following it every week how you feel you've been playing and what's gone right for you. 
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I got off to a really good start this year.   I lost in a playoff in Australia, and that's the best start I've had to any year.   Usually I'm pretty slow getting started, so I was pretty happy with that.
Then we got in a little swing in there kind of in the summer in ‑‑ was it ShopRite and ‑‑ yeah, ShopRite, Sybase, Wegman's, and Mobile.   I went on a streak there and played really well and won twice.
I was disappointed coming of the U.S. Open.   I felt like I was playing good going into the tournament, and kind of got ahead of myself that week.   So I was disappointed with that, but I'm happy the way I bounced back from that tournament and just kind of kept moving on from there.
MODERATOR:   You guys are Solheim Cup teammates.   Obviously you play a lot of golf together.   Stacy, what's the best part of Paula's game? 
PAULA CREAMER:   Tell me what is the best part of my game. 
STACY LEWIS:   Playing with her is so much fun.   No, Paula, she always hits it good, every time I play with her she's solid fairways and greens.   She finds a way to will putts in the hole.   That's what's pretty amazing to me.   I talked to her about it at Solheim.   I was like, How do you make so many long putts when she has to? 
She can find a way to will the ball into the hole.   You probably haven't been that happy with your year, I'm sure.
PAULA CREAMER:   No.
STACY LEWIS:   But she played great these last two days.   It was lot of fun playing with her today.   She had some putts go in, and it kind of helped the whole group, I think.
PAULA CREAMER:   It was like yesterday with you.   You were making so many good putts.   And that's the nice thing, when you can play with a player that's playing well.   We haven't played a ton this year together, but when you do play with somebody that has a lot of the momentum, it helps you just as much.
MODERATOR:   Questions for the ladies?   We'll do one more from me.   Unlikely probably that you'll be paired together going into the week, but from both of you, Stacy first, what do you have to do to get your third win and first win here at the Evian Masters? 
STACY LEWIS:   As you've seen today, you have to make birdies.   You can't try to force it though, that's the hard part.   You want to try to birdie every hole, but that's usually when you get in trouble.
So it's staying patient out there and making putts.   Just got to keep making birdies and climbing up that leaderboard.
MODERATOR:   And Paula, obviously the last win, the 2010 U.S. Open, was a huge one for you.   Been trying to get the next win.   A past champion here.   Tell us what have to do in the next 36 holes to get back in the winner's circle.
PAULA CREAMER:   If you played this golf course the way it's meant ‑‑ obviously Stacy played well; I have 9‑under.   You can do it out here.   You get little confidence and start hitting your irons close and anything can happen. 
There is a lot of golf left.   Most importantly, like what Stacy said, you just have to take it when you can.   They have been moving some tees around here and there, and I'm sure some of the pin placements will be a little bit different tomorrow.   Some of 'em you can go for, and some of 'em you can't.   You just have to stay in your own little world and take care of your own business. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT