U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 8, 2012
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
PAULA CREAMER:   Yeah.   Obviously I'm a little frustrated with things.   I hit some really good shots today.   I haven't hit my driver well this weekend and that I think kind of got me into trouble a little bit, just not missing fairways but just shape of the shot and that kind of thing.  
And of course, bogey on 17 and just a couple of short ones that I could have made coming down the stretch.   But overall, seventh place it was a pretty good week.   Like I said, I'm pretty frustrated, but at the same time, Na Yeon Choi, she played awesome.   It would have been tough to beat.  
   
 Q.   Paula, top finishing American, does that mean anything to you in this tournament?  
PAULA CREAMER:   I mean my No. 1 goal is always to be the top American.   It has been.   To me I think that's such a just a realistic goal right now.   Yani is so far ahead in the Rolex Rankings and for me to be the No. 1 American just in general is always a goal of mine.   So yes, I think that's a big thing.   Hopefully I can continue it on and one more major this year and we'll see what happens.  
   
 Q.   The Koreans have won four of the last five U.S. Opens.   Is there a common denominator in their game that fits this type of venue or can you put your finger on that?  
PAULA CREAMER:   There's a lot.   There's a lot of Korean girls, so obviously we're going against numbers in a sense.   But I think the Americans were ‑‑ we're always playing well.   It's tough.   Obviously it's our national championship and you want an American there and you want red, white and blue, but at the same time they're elevating the game just as much as we are, and it is becoming a global sport and whatnot, but at the same time we still have to give back to our junior golf programs.   I think it shows a lot with what Korea does just as a country and their juniors.   First Tee is a good way for us to have that.   But you just have to look at the junior golf.   That's the future of golf, and if we don't put our efforts towards that, then who knows.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about just the experience here in Kohler and just the course and on and off.   Do you see this as a course where you could see this tournament coming back to some day?  
PAULA CREAMER:   This is an incredible venue.   Great fans.   Obviously the weather was a little bit not normal for this time of year.   It's a good golf course, Mr.Kohler and Pete dye have done just such a wonderful job.   The USGA set it up very fair.   Yesterday Na Yeon Choi played just tremendous.   I think that happens, but I think the golf course was set up well for us and the score showed it.  
   
 Q.   Paula, last thing, you talked a little bit the other day about your putting and so forth.   Do you kind of take some positives out of the week knowing you didn't bring your best putting and seventh place?  
PAULA CREAMER:   I mean I think about it every day.   It's incredible.   I feel I'm so much better than what my scores show, but that's golf.   I don't get quite out of my game what I wish I could get out of my game, but it's a learning process, and golf's ‑‑ I keep saying it's a marathon, it's not a sprint, and right now we're going over some hurdles and it's only making me stronger, it's only making me tougher.   And finishing with that putt on the last hole was big for me.  
It's unfortunate that I do look back at this and think of how many putts I missed and not made.   But like I said, that's golf and it'll make me a better player.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT