SOLHEIM CUP
August 20, 2017
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Putting another point on the board for Team USA.  Georgia came out struggling a little bit.  You were up in the match and then she found her game.  You guys had a tight back and forth.  What part of your vast experience playing Solheim Cup did you draw upon to get it done in the end?
PAULA CREAMER: I think just confidence.  And you know, she's a rookie.  And she played all five matches this week.  And she played awesome.  And you know I knew that she was going to be a fighter.  I see a lot of me in her, just that grinder, doesn't matter where it's at.
I knew if I just kept putting the pressure on, kept putting the pressure on, if I missed a shot that's okay, let's get up-and-down, that kind of thing.  And just really tried to stay in tunnel vision with my caddie, Brooker.  And kind of I missed some shots out there, and then he and I fixed it.
And it's an unfortunate finish for her because she really did play well.  And we deserve to halve that match, I truly believe that.  But a win is a win, and I tip my hat off to her, because she made me work for it and I made her work for it.  And that's what you want in a match.
Q. Your game has been wonderful this week.  What is it about the Solheim Cup that brings out the best in Paula Creamer?
PAULA CREAMER: Well, these crowds are awesome.  I didn't want to let anybody down.
I felt like I had a lot of pressure in Germany.  And this was way more pressure than that.  Being an alternate is a tough job to fill.  And for Juli to play me four matches, you know -- I knew my game was there, but obviously it didn't look like it was.  And I had a great partner, Austin.
And our team, they helped me motivate me.  This is just such a great win for me and for women's golf.  I think everybody showcased themselves well.
Q. Incredible match out there.  You and Georgia were just going at it blow for blow, hole for hole.  How would you describe it from start to finish in your own words?
PAULA CREAMER: You know, I don't think we both quite had our A games, but when we needed to do something we did it.  We had a lot of bounce-backs of things -- the chip-in that Georgia made for eagle and then the birdie on the next hole.  Those are momentum things.
And I didn't feel like I played horrible.  I missed a couple of shots here and there.  But you know it was going to be a battle.  Nobody was giving up in that match, that's for sure.
And it's an unfortunate finish for Georgia, because, honestly, we did deserve both to, I believe, both halve that match.  But you know it is what it is.  And I'll take a win.  But at this point my hat to Georgia.  She played really well.
Q. Coming in here as an alternate in the way that you did, it must have been understandably difficult.  Did you put more pressure on yourself because of that?  And, secondly, how happy are you with the outcome now?
PAULA CREAMER: I mean, I thought Germany was a lot of pressure, just being a captain's pick.  And then being an alternate -- and I know that Juli got a hard time for picking me -- but I told her I could do it.  For her to play me four times as an alternate, it means that she believes in me.  And I'm so glad that I came out and played my game, didn't let any other noise bother me.  And I just have had such a great week.  It's been awesome.  I've had so much fun.
Q. How does this rank for you, career-wise?  And your game for the rest of the season and moving on from here, is this a real kick starter for you?
PAULA CREAMER: You know, everybody needs a little -- you go through peaks and valleys in your game and I'm definitely -- I'm beyond motivated.  I want to win.  I want to be in contention.  I love this.  I love this atmosphere.  I love this feeling.
And all the hard work that we're doing is paying off.  And we're going to continue to do that because I want to be back in there.  I really do.  So hopefully this will jump-start it.  But I feel good.  I feel confident.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT