U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 7, 2012
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Anything under par I guess today would be pretty darn good; right?
PAULA CREAMER:   Yeah.   Definitely I wanted to shoot under par before I went out there.   I would have taken it in a heartbeat. 
It's playing tough.   But you can make your birdies.   There's some holes where you can put a close wedge.   It's just different wind we have had, and the pin placements, the USGA did a very good job tucking them.

Q.   Were there any that were really tough hole locations?
PAULA CREAMER:   More on the back side.   The front side I thought was playing really tough with 6 and 8.   Those were some heck of par 3s right there.   10 was all right.   11 is fine, hitting a shorter shot.   I think the Back 9 pin locations were tucked but you're hitting a shorter club as opposed to the front nine.

Q.   How close do you have to be to have a chance tomorrow?
PAULA CREAMER:   I wanted to get in around even.   That was my goal.   Even or 1‑under.   Obviously when I woke up this morning and saw it was so windy, I knew even par would be a good score. 
Hopefully if I'm within four or five and I can go out a little bit earlier than them and make some birdies, you never know what's going to happen.

Q.   You went right to the putting green after your round yesterday.   Did you feel more comfortable with your strokes today?
PAULA CREAMER:   Yeah, I was there when it was dark on the putting green last night. 
Yeah, it's just a confidence thing, and obviously, you can look at my stats, my putting has been an issue.   I've hit the ball great.   I've given myself so many opportunities.   I was incredibly frustrated yesterday.   I haven't been that frustrated for a long time after a round and I had to go grind it out on the putting green.   Definitely it helped today.   I made some more putts and that was good.

Q.   I saw you lipped out violently on 15 yesterday and it seemed you let out a little yell.   It probably was indicative of the week you've been having where you've been kind of around the hole. 
PAULA CREAMER:   Well, it's not only this week.   It's been pretty much every week, it seems like.   And I gotta get over it.   It is what it is and it can't be like this forever.   That's for sure. 
Like I said, this is a big test for me to overcome, and it's a mental grind, and I've just gotta put the time in and work hard and take it to the golf course, and we'll see.   It's getting better.   I just have to continue being positive. 
I know I'm a good putter.   It's just a matter of time.

Q.   Is it more of a confidence thing or is it something physical that you're still struggling with?
PAULA CREAMER:   I think what happens is I have some makeable putts, and ultimately I give myself opportunity almost every other hole for a good look at birdie and I'm constantly being held with these 15, 20‑footers.   And you're not going to make them all.   Over time I miss them and I think maybe something is wrong with my stroke.   But nothing is wrong with my stroke.   It's just matching my speed and my line.

Q.   When you go out tomorrow are you going to put a number in your head that you feel like you need to get to or do you feel like that would mess up your game even more?
PAULA CREAMER:   Depending on the wind and the weather, I think that's going to be a part of it.   A pin like today it's tough, it's hard out there.   You just have to take what it gives tomorrow.
I'm glad I'm done.   I wish I would have finished at even, one over, but it is what it is and I'll start off strong tomorrow.

Q.   Does it help having won two years ago to sort of say, well, I kind of know what it takes and you could adjust maybe better to that round?
PAULA CREAMER:   Of course.   I mean there's no better experience than winning at a U. S. Open and being however far behind I'm going to be. 
I mean I'm a chaser.   I love chasing, you know, so definitely I have a confidence factor in the fact that I have won a national championship and I can do it again.   It's just having some putts fall and getting some good breaks out there.

Q.   How long were you practicing in the dark last night?   Would you do that again or do you need to rest?
PAULA CREAMER:   No.   I'll continue doing what I've been doing.   Just because I had a decent day in this weather doesn't mean I'm going to go sit in there and just say yea, that kind of thing.   No, I need to grind it out.
You know, last night obviously the rounds took forever, so it was dark when we finished any ways.   But I will.   I'll continue to do my practice afterwards.

Q.   Paula, do you think the course setup today was a reflection of some of the comments and some of the scores?
PAULA CREAMER:   100 percent.   Yes.   100 percent.

Q.   Where do you think they'll put the pins tomorrow?
PAULA CREAMER:   I don't know where they can even put some of these pins tomorrow, what they did today.   But you know, you know that's going to happen.   The USGA doesn't like it when how many people, 10, 11 people were under par, whatever it was.   They made it hard today.   It helped with the wind, made it even tougher.   It also helps where they put some of these tee boxes for some of these pins.   I never thought 6 would be a back tee box, but it is.   I made a par and I felt like I made a birdie.

Q.   If you're chasing, would you rather it be harder or easier?
PAULA CREAMER:   Oh, harder.   100 percent.   I like it when it's this.   You gotta hit good golf shots and that's what golf is about is being able to work the ball right‑to‑left and left‑to‑right.   When you get the calm, easy days, I don't like that. 

Q.   What are your thoughts on the leaderboard?   There's a lot of big names up there. 
PAULA CREAMER:   Oh, this golf course, like I said, suits top players, and people who can make the big putts at the big moments are going to be at the top.   And Suzann, she's going to be a tough competitor.   She's come close to this championship in the last several years, so you know she's going to grind it out really hard and want to hang in there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT