U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 5, 2012
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How do you feel about your round?  
PAULA CREAMER:   I don't really know.   I was talking to Collin at the end, and you know, I only missed three greens, and I gave myself a lot of chances, but it's hard onto make birdies.   The opportunities that I did give myself I made.   You know, it's tough to make 25, 30‑footers out here.   There's just so much speed related.   But I'll take it.   It's first day.   It's Thursday.   Nothing crazy.   But this golf course is only going to get harder, and I think today was a pretty good ball‑striking day.   Just need to see a couple putts go in.  
   
 Q.   Any particular holes that are birdiable out there and others that are ‑‑  
PAULA CREAMER:   I would say some of the par‑5s, you know you get a shorter wedge in your hand and you're able to put spin on it, you can take advantage.   9.   I think 4.   Those are some birdie holes.   
You know, the main thing is is just giving yourself opportunities constantly, and it's so hot.   It's such another element to add to it that you tend to ‑‑ you're not thinking 100 percent clearly all the time.   And I think that's the hardest fight and battle out there is trying to just be in the shade as much as you possibly can.   I'm not the biggest sun umbrella fan, but I used it almost every hole.  
   
 Q.   And you wore black.   
PAULA CREAMER:   I know.   I always gotta wear black and white.   Always, once, and I figured today was the morning day.   I have a white hat in my bag, though, just in case.   
   
 Q.   How frustrating has it been not to have won since ‑‑  
PAULA CREAMER:   Incredibly.   It's very hard.   It's frustrating.   At the same time it's motivating.   You know, I'm trying to learn how to channel the energy that I have from being frustrated into making it positive, and you know, it's been hard.   I mean it's been very difficult.   I set such high expectations for myself, and to not have won since 2010 is kind of crazy to me, but it is reality, and I've been working very hard.   I can't say that I am slacking off or anything like that.   If not, I'm working harder now and maybe even too hard, you know, just putting pressure on myself.   But it's going to happen.   I'm not too scared about that.   It will come around, and you know, it's just a battle of fighting through all this.  
   
 Q.   Did you play practice rounds on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday?  
PAULA CREAMER:   I played ‑‑ yes, I did.  
   
 Q.   It's the fourth day in the heat, the sun.   Does it grind on you a little bit?  
PAULA CREAMER:   Yes and no.   I live in Florida also, so I'm used to the humidity.   And last week was hot.   But that's why you work out.   That's why you drink a lot of water.   Nutrition is important.   I would never want to sit at the end of the day and say, man, I'm tired.   I'm not preparing myself, my body for something like this.   I don't think I could accept that very well.  
But you know, it is.   It's hard, yes, but you just have to take the proper measurement and everything to go that route of knowing it's hot.  
   
 Q.   As driven and focused as you are, what do you do to relax?  
PAULA CREAMER:   I'm learning that one.   I'm learning.   I'm very ‑‑ I like to go, go, go, so it's hard for me to just sit down.   But just really learning how to be able to do that I think is important.   My family is here.   My dog's here, so it's nice to be able to get away.   
I think the people around me, my team have done and are doing a great job helping me kind of get away from the game, get away from golf when I'm gone.   I think about it so much, it's hard to not do that.   But that's what the best players in the world can do.   They can separate the two.  
   
 Q.   A lot of players said coming into the tournament the mental grind wore on them more than the physical grind as a tournament like this.   When you just got done playing, is that the same thoughts or is it more physical once you get done playing?  
PAULA CREAMER:   No.   It's hard out there.   Mentally it's tough.   You know, it's not necessarily like the longest U. S. Open we've played because there's a lot of run.   Of course there's some holes where they're long, but it's just hitting the ball in these right little spots with these hills and constantly thinking, okay, can I fly it to the right of it, can I fly it to the left of it.   So it's more I think mental exhaustion at the end of the day, definitely, than physical.  
   
 Q.   On a light note, I can't help but notice your nails?  
PAULA CREAMER:   I like both of the colors, so I decided to do both, and I always do something a little different at the U. S. Open, and the pink, obviously, and I thought the blue was pretty.   I don't know.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT