SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC
June 3, 2012
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Congratulations on a solid round out there for you today.   Just take me through your day and what was working.   
PAULA CREAMER:   Well, I started off with a bogey on the first hole, which wasn't ideal, but made birdie on 3 and 4 and tried to give myself as many opportunities as I could, and I the bogey on 9 was kind of unfortunate, but got it back on 10.   I had to back‑to‑back bogeys on 13 and 14.   Those were easy chips, yes and no, but I should never really have been in the positions that I was at.   But overall I feel pretty solid with where I'm going.   So we'll see.  
   
 Q.   Next week is the big week, heading into another major.   Talk so much about what you've done with your game.   How confident do you feel about your game right now heading into next week?  
PAULA CREAMER:   I feel really good.   David Whelan, my coach, is coming in actually tonight.   I'll meet him there tomorrow.   We'll have a really good practice session.   I could feel it kind of getting a little flat today.  
But I think the biggest thing is this is my first time playing Wegmans without my grandpa, Pops there, and I think that's going to be the hardest thing just mentally because when I was an amateur he was there, so this will be more of a mental feat next week, I think, than really out on the golf course physically.  
   
 Q.   Everybody's always talked about the Americans and when the Americans are going to step up and now Stacy's won two out of the last three events now.   How impressed have you been with watching her game lately?  
PAULA CREAMER:   No.   She's playing great.   It's unfortunate nobody put really any pressure on her today.   We were all kind of packed in right there and she took advantage of it yesterday and made a lot of birdies, and you can do that on this course, especially with Stacy when she starts making putts.   They all seem to go in.   Kind of like Yani with the confidence.   And it's great for women's golf.   It's great for American golf and hopefully next week I will be in contention there, too, the red white and blue.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT