KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 29, 2012
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PAULA CREAMER:   Yeah, it was a nice little birdie.   I played pretty well today.   It wasn't my best, but I hit 16 greens, and I can't complain with that.   But the green speeds I kind of struggled with, left everything pretty much short, or if not, just rolling into the front edge.   But it's Thursday, and you can't win it today, but you can put yourself in a good position, and we'll take it. 

Q.   Is this the slowest you've seen these greens?
PAULA CREAMER:   I think so, and I think that's kind of why mentally I've not been quite as aggressive as I should be because I'm thinking they're going to be so fast.   I don't think this putting green is the same as the golf course.   This is getting pretty fast, and when you get out there, it's almost Velcro. 

Q.   Were you happy to be playing with Yani?   Do you like that pairing?
PAULA CREAMER:   I do.   I feel like I've played with her a lot this year.   Seems like every week, at least one of the days, I'm playing with her.   Unfortunately not on Sundays.   But I am getting used to it.   Obviously you're playing the golf course, but of course she's going to be right in there on Sunday, best player in the world, and it's good to play with people that are going to push you. 

Q.   Considering your history here, no top 10s, how happy are you to get off to a start like this on a course that's given you problems?
PAULA CREAMER:   I feel good.   Like I said, you can't win it today, but I just need to keep putting myself in spots where I need to be.   My birdies will come.   I made two good par saves today, but just trying to play patient.   Even though there's no rough out here, you still have to be 100 percent in it on every shot because sometimes it can get you out here, and I feel good.   I feel good where I'm at.

Q.   Is the rough leading to any jumpers?
PAULA CREAMER:   There's a couple.   I mean, yesterday in the practice rounds I dropped a bunch of balls, and pretty much every one of them was a flier, so you do have to watch for that.   But it's not horrible.   You have to just kind of look at it and assess it, but it's not like it's taking 10 yards off or 12 yards off.   It's pretty normal.

Q.   Is it at a point where people do look to see what Yani has done or is doing, or do you try to just ignore it?   You play the golf course, but are you curious what she's doing if you're not playing with her obviously? 
PAULA CREAMER:   Well, I played with her so I know what she's doing.   I mean, yes and no.   You can't get wrapped up with one person out on the golf course.   You have to take care of yourself.   I think a little bit of that has happened probably.   The end of last year people worrying a lot about what she's doing and how she's playing and not really taking care of your own game, and it's easy to do when you have a player who's been so dominant.   Of course you're going to see where she's at. 

Q.   It's kind of a contradiction almost, the LPGA is certainly getting a lot of attention from her good play, but gosh, they do need a rivalry.   How does that happen?   Just play better? 
PAULA CREAMER:   I would think so, yes.   People need to just step up to the plate and give her a bit more competition. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT