RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 27, 2011
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, we have Paula Creamer with us. Welcome to Carnoustie. I understand that you are an ambassador for Ricoh, the sponsors of the championship. Can you tell us what that involves? 
 PAULA CREAMER: Being an ambassador for Ricoh is quite an honour. They're an incredible company, and the fact that they are so heavily involved with the environment and making things better is something that I've always looked at and tried to take part in myself. It shows a lot when a company, a sponsor, wants to get involved with the LPGA, and the fact that the "Super Sunday" on Sunday, the birdies and all the money it's giving back to Japan relief, to be a part of it, like I said, is quite an honour, and I'm very lucky to be an ambassador for them.
 THE MODERATOR: Ricoh are a company who are pretty big on teamwork. How important is your team around you this week besides every other week? 
 PAULA CREAMER: Teamwork is huge. That's what I guess gets me through each year. My team is pretty small, but it's very intricate. I have my parents travel with me, my coach, my manager, my caddie. It's all about teamwork, and you can't do it by yourself. Unfortunately you are the one that hits the shots, but there's a lot of people behind the scenes that help you get to where you need to go.
 THE MODERATOR: Who are your coach and caddie? 
 PAULA CREAMER: My coach is David Whelan, and my caddie is Colin Cann.
 THE MODERATOR: Ricoh are also a company that makes businesses more efficient. Have you had to do anything this week to adapt to the links and conditions? 
 PAULA CREAMER: I have. I've changed the setup in my golf bag definitely as the wind plays a huge factor over here. My setup of my golf bag is different. I normally carry a 5- and a 7-wood. This week I have some rescues and hybrids and I put in a 4-iron and a different 5-iron in my bag, and I only have three wedges instead of four. You do have to adapt to the conditions. 
 THE MODERATOR: I understand you've been to Carnoustie before the Evian. What are your initial thoughts about the golf course? 
 PAULA CREAMER: I love this golf course. I think it's by far one of my favourite links golf courses that I've played. I think it's very fair, it's hard. I think it has every aspect of golf that you need. You have to hit all kinds of shots, and that's what I like. I like the harder the better. It is fair at the same time. You get some hard bounces here and there, but you don't get hard bounces into those little bunkers, which is kind of a nice change. 
 But Mother Nature is in control out here. That's going to dictate the scores for sure.
 THE MODERATOR: How would you assess your form coming into the tournament? 
 PAULA CREAMER: I feel really good. In these last several tournaments that I've played in, I feel like I'm right in there. This past week I hit the ball really well. I started making a bunch of putts, which was nice. The weekend I didn't play as well as I wanted. But it's just putting myself in contention, that's all I can really ask for. But I do feel good. 
 I love playing over here, always have. I like the challenge. I like the different type of golf. I like grinding it out, so that's a positive thing for me to look at. I know the weather is not going to be great tomorrow, and I'm excited for that. I don't want it to be sunny. I want it to be blowing and bouncing and getting frustrated out there. I like that. 

 Q. When you were here a couple of weeks ago I was told that the winds might have been going two different directions on the days you were here. Comparing that to the conditions earlier this week, a lot of the players are saying it's very difficult to judge what they'll do in the tournament. Have you got some sort of advantage having had that experience?
 PAULA CREAMER: Well, I played with the wind where 1 was downwind, and today it kind of switched around, so actually it was the first time I've really played it where it's been into. I can tell you, 15, 16 and 18 played a heck of a lot harder when the wind was into than it is now, going down and kind of across. It was a very different golf course when the winds do switch. But I have that -- I know what it's like. I think the prevailing wind is into on 1, and those finishing holes played downwind, makes it I think a little bit easier. 
 But overall, who knows what's going to happen. I mean, that's the greatest thing about the British is it can change at any moment. It changes on the golf course, especially around 9, 10, 11, 12. That little area seems to always be opposite of what it should be, and maybe the two days that I played before Evian kind of helped me get used to it, I don't know. But I'd like to say that I kind of have a hands up on playing the golf course with the wind. 

 Q. You took a local caddie out with you when you were here?
 PAULA CREAMER: I did, Danny, yes, the club champ I had on my bag. It was fun, it was a good time. I played with Colin, the head pro, and trying to get as much insight as I can. Like I said, you can't really control where the ball bounces but you can aim in the right direction, that's for sure. 

 Q. Were you disappointed that 18 is so far up, kind of takes the burn out of play with the prevailing wind? 
 PAULA CREAMER: It does. The setup was a little bit different than what I thought it was going to be here. It is playing pretty short. I think 6 could have been moved back further, that par-5, and it could have been a little bit different, making it more of a three-shot type of hole, and if it's downwind and we get there, great. And 18, why not play it further back and even play it all the way back and make it a par-5. 
 17 is a strange hole for us. I think you go 4-rescue, 5-iron on a par-5. But when that wind switches around it's going to be a different story. 
 18 doesn't play I don't think the way it should be played, but it is what it is, and I know that we have I think it's like 40 yards in between tees, depending on which way the wind direction is, to set it up for that. But it's also the first year that we're here, too, so who knows what they can do with the pin placements out there, tuck them behind bunkers and whatnot to make it a little bit harder for us. 
 THE MODERATOR: Paula, thank you very much. Good luck this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT