EVIAN MASTERS PRESENTED BY SOCIETE GENERALE
July 22, 2011
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Paula Creamer into the interview room. Thanks for joining us. Congratulations on your round today. Can you just take us a little bit through the round and how you felt you played out there.  
 PAULA CREAMER: I played pretty solid all day. I gave myself a bunch of opportunities. I'm putting the ball a lot better. I feel very comfortable and confident out here. I like the greens. They're pretty quick and you have to think.  
 Even though they are very soft and you can fly it the pins, you still have to make those breaking putts, which is key out here. No bogeys. Missed the short one on the last hole, but it was a good putt, just a misread.  
 Overall, I'll take today for sure.  
 MODERATOR: When you find yourself up there near the top of the leaderboard heading into the weekend, what's the feeling like? Do you change any approach to the weekend or just try to continue with what's been working well?   
 PAULA CREAMER: No, you know, you can't really -- I don't really want to change anything right now. You have to adapt with the golf course. Hopefully it dries out a little bit more going into the weekend and we don't get that afternoon rain. There are some shots out there I know I can work on.  
 At the same time, I'm just trying to be a patient as I can and hit as many greens and give myself as many opportunities. This is where I want to be going into the weekend.  
 MODERATOR: How different were the scoring conditions today compared to yesterday when to rained so heavily in the morning?   
 PAULA CREAMER: I was afternoon yesterday so I only had a couple holes in the rain, but it's wet. It's playing very different than it has in the past. This golf course has never played firm and fast. The holes, tee shots, things like that, everything is a bit slower. The rounds take a little longer with the lift, clean, and place.  
 Today I knew it was going to be the best of the four days, so I tried to take as much advantage of that as I could.  
 MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. Coming back to a place where you've had success, does that makes it easier to get the feel going with the putter? I mean, you do know these greens.   
 PAULA CREAMER: It does, yes. I think winning my first time here and winning by such a large margin, every year I've come back I've expected myself to do it over and over again. In reality I put a little bit too much pressure on myself.  
 This year coming here I knew I've been playing well. I had some really good tournaments coming up to this. If I just kept going with my game plan that I have been, I knew I would be in contention going into the weekend and not getting in my own way.  
 Knowing I've won out here and knowing these greens, I do feel a lot more confident, and it's showing with my putting.   
  
  Q. What's been the key to getting your putting balance on?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Practice. I've just been grinding it out work really hard on my putting, confidence. I've always thought of myself as a very good putter. Sometimes you just go through little waves where the hole doesn't look four and a quarter inches.   
 You know, I've been just grinding it out with Colin and my coach, David Whelan, and, you know, just trying to stick to one thing. You tend to kind of overanalyze things.  
 I'm hitting good putts now, and that's all I can do.   
  
  Q. Does the place you're in make a difference to you? You see all the scenery and you've got this lovely little town, a bit like St. Andrews. What does it do for you?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Well, I'm definitely more relaxed. Everybody is just kind of enjoying it as you can. I think that sometimes people relax a little bit too much. You know, they forget they are here for a golf tournament.   
 I think I've kind of figured out that balance. Afterwards I love going down the town and seeing as much as I possibly can. Today my mom and I are going to go do some sightseeing before the awards party this evening.   
 And that's great. You don't do that in the States as much. It's nice to take advantage of it when you are in another country.  
  
  Q. We had a young lady in here earlier who said she traveled with 50 pairs of earrings.   
 PAULA CREAMER: Okay. Uh-huh.  
  
  Q. How many do you have in your bag?  
 PAULA CREAMER: What if my suitcase gets stolen? I don't want to tell -- no, I'm just kidding. No, I have a lot of golf earrings, the fun like little plasticy kind of ones. There's a lot. I've always been an accessory kind of girl, so I would probably go against that, yes.   
 It's as scary number.  
  
  Q. You went to Carnoustie. Can you just talk a wee bit about that and what you look forward to next week.   
 PAULA CREAMER: Oh, it's a great golf course. I enjoyed it a lot. I thought it was a great test of golf. You have to hit good shots. It's not unfair by any means. You don't get those crazy bounces over bunkers and things like that.  
 I was very surprised with how narrow the greens were. I didn't realize they were as narrow and as long. TV definitely doesn't do it justice in that. It's all about the weather there.   
 Saturday when I played it wasn't too windy. It was pretty calm. No rain. It was a little bit -- normally I think the prevailing wind is into, mine was across.   
 Sunday was actually the opposite wind. It was down, so 15, 16, and 18 all played dead into the wind, which is very hard. It's probably the best finishing holes that I've played in a long time with that wind.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT