U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 9, 2011
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Could you just sum up where you're at, how it's going so far?  
 PAULA CREAMER: You know, I finished the first two days even. Yesterday was a long day. I wish I could have finished. I think that would have been a huge advantage, but, you know, I didn't unfortunately.  
 You know, I came out, hit a great shot on 8 to about 15, 18 feet. I three-putted and left it about three feet short.  
 No. 9, I made about a 10-footer for par. So it goes both ways.  
 But, you know, it's tough. It's a fast turnaround. I think we were out here 13 hours playing golf. That's a lot of golf, especially on this golf course. It's a long walk.  
 But I feel really good. I feel very confident. I'm going to go back and get some rest, probably come back in a little bit and do a little bit of practice, and then, you know, get ready again for the afternoon.   
  
  Q. Just your last nine holes took like 14 hours with the weather delay, a night's sleep. Can you just talk about how that affects the rhythm of your round?  
 PAULA CREAMER: It's tough. I mean, it's always hard when you have to come back, and especially with the restart at 7:00. That's a lot, considering we were out there playing, you know, 34 holes. At least, you know, move it back a little bit so we could have some rest.   
 But I understand, I mean, trying to get everybody in, and it's kind of the luck of the draw, as you could say.   
  
  Q. Opens are exasperating as it is. How much does it compound it, and how much does that become a part of the test, these delays and the frustrations?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Oh, this is all of it. You either are above it and move on are and you just kind of accept that this is what it is, or you dwell about it and let it get to yourself, and, you know, affect your game out there.   
 That's something that I guess I've kind of been lucky where I've been in every Open with a delay, so I know what to expect and I know how to handle it. It's just really, you know, when you're not playing to just get home, go away from it and put your feet up.  
 You know, mentally you have to be ready to come out and know that they're gonna be long days. Opens are just so hard as they -- you know, just playing golf out here. But there are so many other elements and, you know, variables that are, you know, part of it that you do have to realize.   
  
  Q. You have to feel good about the position you've put yourself in to defend. Can you talk about how things change over the next 36 holes for everyone?  
 PAULA CREAMER: No, I'm very pleased. I mean, even par, if somebody said, Would you take even par after two days? Yeah, I would. I would sit in my house.   
 But, you know, that's golf, and I have two more days left. I have to still control. I can only control what I can do out there. I know there are some things that I can get better on, but I have a lot of confidence. I feel really positive out there.   
 And, you know, like I keep saying, I want that trophy back. This is something that I really want, and I'm trying my ultimate, my hardest that I can possibly try.   
  
  Q. Could you just talk about the Yani pairing and just how that worked out for the first two rounds?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Well, it was good. You know, Yani is by far one of the longest players out on tour. I knew that going into this. So I tried -- you know, I had to not try and kill every shot that I had, because there was no point in that.   
 But it was good playing with Yani. You know, I think that right now - I've said it a couple times also - that she's the one to beat.  
 She hasn't quite had her two days that she's wanted, but I'm sure she's gonna come back on the weekend. You know, you take who you play with, and to be paired with No. 1 player in the world is something that you want every time.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT