KIA CLASSIC
March 23, 2011
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PAULA CREAMER: There are a lot of holes out here that are pretty long. It puts a premium on par-5s and making birdies on those. There are going to be a lot of holes at pars if it's a good score.  
  
  Q. Talk about your game. You came real close last week.   
 PAULA CREAMER: I did. It was fun. It was a good run. On the back nine, I made a lot of birdies. That always helps your confidence coming into this weekend. With a major next week, that's kind of what I'm looking for.  
  
  Q. I want to talk about the major. I'm the 18th green announcer, so I need to be introducing you on Saturday and Sunday, that means you're in the last several groups.   
 PAULA CREAMER: Well, I hope so. I hope so.  
  
  Q. What would it mean to win that thing?   
 PAULA CREAMER: Well, when you think of the LPGA Tour, that's always one of the top things that you think about, jumping into Poppie's Pond is something that I've always wanted to do. And I played an as an amateur there, so I have a lot of special memories coming from that golf course. But hopefully I can be there on Sunday.  
  
  Q. Okay, so how does that course suit your game?   
 PAULA CREAMER: That golf course has always suited my game pretty well. It puts a premium on hitting fairways and greens. In the past, I just never really took advantage of the par-5s, and that is something I'm really going to look at this year.  
  
  Q. When we think of Paula Creamer, we think of healthy Paula Creamer. How are you feeling? Are you back to 100%?   
 PAULA CREAMER: I am. I feel like everything is kind of at one level now. My thumb's good. Health-wise I'm doing really well, and I'm excited just to be out here and playing and not worrying about everything else that's going on. I can just focus on my golf.  
  
  Q. The time away though, did it make you appreciate playing more?   
 PAULA CREAMER: Oh, 100%. It was the hardest thing I've ever had to do, but it was the most necessary thing that I've ever had to do as well.   
 Every athlete always thinks that they're never going to have to have surgery, never going to have to have surgery. There is nothing that can prepare you for that.   
 It was a big thing, but I definitely matured in it. Obviously I wouldn't want to have to do it again, that's for sure. But it has helped me immensely.  
  
  Q. Now majors, just start adding them up again, right?   
 PAULA CREAMER: I hope so. That is the plan, yep.  
  
  Q. Tell us about playing with Juan Pablo? What was that experience like?   
 PAULA CREAMER: No, it was great. He's a really nice guy. He's a good player as well, and it's cool to intermix with other athletes as well. I picked up some pointers from him, and hopefully he got a few from me.  
  
  Q. I missed the start, but just talk about the Kia Classic this week? Obviously a big event, real first money making opportunity for everybody on Tour this year. What kind of event is this?   
 PAULA CREAMER: It's a big tournament for everybody. It's right before our first major of the year. It's a great golf course; it's a tough golf course. Depending on the weather, it's not going to be a real low winning score.  
  
  Q. Just your finish last week, you obviously finished strong Sunday. Is that going to help you this week?   
 PAULA CREAMER: Oh, any time you have a good Sunday finish, that helps you. I've been working on a lot of things and it was good to take it to the golf course, especially in the heat of the battle out there, being able to kind of produce what I've been doing on the range out on the golf course always helps also. But any time you can make a bunch of birdies that helps.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT