LORENA OCHOA INVITATIONAL BY BANAMEX AND CORONA LIGHT
November 12, 2010
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Eight birdies, three bogey, great round, leading by one. Just talk about it. 
 PAULA CREAMER: I started off very strong, 4-under through six holes, and kind of had a minor hiccup in the middle of the round. But I finished very strong. I'm pleased with the way I'm hitting the ball, and I'm putting very well. 
 Consistently I'm rolling the putts the way that I want to, and that's all I can ask for is to give myself as many opportunities as I can. 
 THE MODERATOR: You finished second here last year, what about this golf course and this tournament suits you? 
 PAULA CREAMER: I really like coming here. I enjoy the golf course. It sets up very well for my game. It's not the longest golf course that we play all year, but you have to hit a lot of fairways and you have to be very precise with your irons and that kind of suits my game.
 But coming in second last year, I definitely wanted to come back and give myself a good chance to win. 

 Q. The last couple of tournaments you've played in Asia, you weren't playing so strong the first two rounds; you were having issues, especially with your putter. What did you do to make it better this week? 
 PAULA CREAMER: I've really been working on my short game a lot, actually, since I can remember at the beginning of this year, and it takes time, it really does. You build the confidence over time. 
 But my first rounds lately have not been the best start and I really wanted to come out strong this tournament instead of fighting my way back all the time. But I have a new putting routine, and I'm just trying to stick with it and we'll see what happens at the end of the year. 

 Q. You've played really well in Guadalajara the last few years, and you're kind of one of sweethearts of the fans here. How do the fans help you? Would you talk more about that?
 PAULA CREAMER: The fans are great. It's really nice coming out here to play, and it's very nice that the field is small; so you get to interact more with them. But it is; it's a very nice feeling and you want to play well for them and you want to come out and you want to make as many birdies as you can. 
 Like I said, it's always very nice to come to Mexico, especially Guadalajara. 

 Q. Your new putting routine, how much does it have to do with the fact that you're injured? 
 PAULA CREAMER: Well, my actual routine has changed; Blackhawk, at the CVS tournament was when I changed it. 
 So it's been a couple weeks now, a month or so, where I've actually gotten used to it. But I just needed to do something different. It was kind of getting stale. 
 But I think the biggest thing is I had surgery, and that's all I could do is putt; putt, putt, putt. I couldn't hit as much. I think I put way too much emphasis on that, and I expected to make everything and I kind of lost my confidence. 
 So now it's kind of back to where it should be. 

 Q. You've played well in Guadalajara, probably after Lorena Ochoa, you're probably the fan favorite here after her. Do you feel that way? 
 PAULA CREAMER: I do feel -- I'm very lucky that I have a very good fan base here. Not only the little kids, but everybody, is very, very supportive of my golf. 
 You know, like I said, it's very nice when you come to another country and no one's ever going to be as big as Lorena, but if you're the next best, that's definitely something that's very nice. And it helps. It does help to play better with that. 

 Q. What words do you speak in Spanish? 
 PAULA CREAMER: I do know a lot. I can understand -- like I understood that question. But I get very nervous speaking it, so I can't say it as much. But the verbs are very hard for me to conjugate. 
 But you put me on the spot -- what do you want me to say? I don't know -- lo siento, con permiso. You know. I know good golf words -- I don't know. 

 Q. How would you say congratulations? 
 PAULA CREAMER: Well, you would say like -- I know happy birthday, Feliz Compleaños. I know that song. I used to know the pledge of allegiance in Spanish, but I've forgot now. 
 I don't know -- I know colors. I know that kind of stuff. Next year I'll be able to answer more in Spanish. (Laughter) Chiquita; I know that one. (Laughter).

 Q. The championship is wide open, is it more pressure for you or just try to enjoy? 
 PAULA CREAMER: No, I like where I'm at. Of course, this is great for me. Going into the weekend, there's lots of golf left and I just hope that I can keep on doing what I've been doing. And hopefully I can make some birdies early on like I did today, and we'll see what happens. 
 But my biggest thing is on Sunday on the back nine; if I have a chance to win, then I'm content with that and hopefully I can pull it out. 

 Q. One of the hardest things in golf is consistency, what are you going to do to keep up that consistency for tomorrow? 
 PAULA CREAMER: Well, I'll going to go to the range. I need to hit a couple of balls; kind of in the middle of the round I went to the left side of the golf course. So going to go try to fix that. A lot of it is confidence and just believing in yourself and just doing what I've been working on, and we'll see. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks. 
 PAULA CREAMER: Hasta mañana. (Laughter)







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT