CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 28, 2010
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Many of us who've ever had food poisoning or a 24-hour bug know how it can affect you. How trying was it out there today, Paula?
 PAULA CREAMER: Oh, my goodness. This was the hardest thing I've had to do. I've played through a lot of pain and I've played through being sick a bunch, but this was a hard one. The weather didn't help much either.

 Q. Was there any consideration at any point given to quitting?
 PAULA CREAMER: Oh, every shot I thought about it. But you know, you have to kind of grind it out. You know, it's hard, getting sick out there, hitting shots left and right. You know, it's difficult, but I knew if I just kept going, I could finish the round.

 Q. So under the circumstances I can't imagine that you're not happy with a 7. 
 PAULA CREAMER: No, A, I don't even know how I broke par, and B, I don't know how I played 18 holes, so I'm just going to go home, get some IVs. We'll see what happens tomorrow, but I know I gave it 150 percent today.

 Q. Well, as Judy Rankin said a moment ago, you might not feel it now, but tomorrow you'll feel better and you'll be happy you toughed it out today. 
 PAULA CREAMER: Exactly. And that's what Collin, my caddy, kept saying out there today, just keep on going, and if you really can't do it, we're going home. And you know, of course, I'm not a quitter, so I wanted to putt as many as I could.

 Q. Thanks for taking the time to talk to us, Paula. Good luck tomorrow. 
 PAULA CREAMER: Thank you. Thanks.

 Q. We understand you're not well. How did you make it through the round?
 PAULA CREAMER: I don't know. I really -- I have no idea. I really felt like I was dying pretty much the whole day today. 
 But you know, sometimes you just gotta do that. You gotta go out and play as hard as you can. You know, unfortunately I've had a lot of practice playing either in A, pain, or being sick. So I kind of knew what to do. I hit it, gees, 40 yards shorter than what I normally would have hit it, so you know, you just gotta finish the round.

 Q. Food poisoning?
 PAULA CREAMER: I think so. Food poisoning or it's a 24-hour bug. I believe it's food poisoning. My dad's sick, too. 

 Q. Are you worried about tomorrow at all?
 PAULA CREAMER: Well, you know, I got through today to give me the opportunity to play tomorrow. You know, hopefully -- I feel a little bit better right now, but we'll see what a good night's rest and a couple IVs will do for me.

 Q. Did you think about not playing?
 PAULA CREAMER: I did, yes. I thought about that probably on -- on every hole I came about, okay, 16 more, 14 more, 12 more. I knew once I got to that par-3 over there, that I had to finish it out. It didn't matter what was going to happen. I was going to finish the round.

 Q. And you played pretty well, too. 
 PAULA CREAMER: I did. I'm 3-under through nine holes. My gosh, I just was trying to hit it the least amount of times as I could.

 Q. When did you start feeling bad?
 PAULA CREAMER: This morning. I've been sick all morning, and I went and saw doctors. Actually right before my round had a shot, got a shot at the turn, a bunch of medicine, but you know, that's the way it is. 

 Q. The combination of your thumb, mosquitoes, rain and food poisoning, is this the most difficult round of golf you've ever played?
 PAULA CREAMER: Oh, goodness. I don't know about most difficult. Maybe annoying at times, you know. These mosquitoes are so bad. At one point I just -- I don't care anymore. I just let them bite me. 
 But you know, it's -- just all the fans, I mean my goodness. They're in the thick stuff and they're getting eaten alive more than we are. I can't complain too much.

 Q. Thanks, Paula. 
 PAULA CREAMER: Thanks, guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT