CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 25, 2010
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: We'd like to welcome Paula Creamer, the defending U.S. Women's Open champion. I know you still like to hear that. Welcome to the CN Canadian Women's Open. Talk about being here in Winnipeg and how excited you are for this event.   
 PAULA CREAMER: Well, I am. I've always liked coming to Canada, and it's nice that we do get to travel all over the country and play different golf courses in different regions. It's a really good golf course. The wind definitely will play a factor. I know it's supposed to get pretty hot out there, and the ball bounces a lot.   
 But there's also tee shots out here that you have to be really careful about, so it kind of brings everybody into the mix. But I am, I'm excited to play tomorrow in the tournament. I've always -- like I said, I've always liked coming here. There's a lot of fans, a lot of supporters, and it makes your round out there a lot nicer.   
  
  Q. You said it's starting to bounce a little bit. Could you make a comparison to last week's course, which by all accounts was very firm?   
 PAULA CREAMER: I would say it's pretty much the same, maybe a little bit more here. You get a lot of roll. There's a lot of 3-woods off of tees just because there's certain bunkers that you have to avoid, and there's little neck areas, little narrow fairways. Length really isn't going to play a huge part on some of these holes; it's more about placement, because I hit it in the rough a couple times this far into the rough and I could only hit 9-iron out. So that's definitely going to put a premium on your tee shots.  
  
  Q. A couple players were questioned about the trend these days in tournament golf is somewhere along the line to have a drivable par-4. If you've seen the north nine do you think they might try something like that on the 3rd hole?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Yes, there's going to be a lot of girls that can get there. It's only like 220 I think over that last bunker and from there it's hardpan, so it's going to pretty much go into that bunker or in that rough area, and it's not a bad place to be. Depending on wind I'll hit driver or not. Pin placement on that hole is really what determines if you hit driver off the tee or not. But the longer hitters will for sure hit driver.  
  
  Q. Do the players like a drivable par-4?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, it's nice. It's kind of different. It's fun. You know, I think there's times to have that, and it's kind of an interesting, strategic location, the 3rd hole starting off and you have a drivable par-4. Normally you see that on 15, 16, 17. It's the opposite here.   
  
  Q. Could you describe how significant a breakthrough that was to win the U.S. Women's Open? And talk a little bit about your long-term aspirations. Obviously you want to be the best in the world I presume?  
 PAULA CREAMER: It was a big win. I think -- we were talking about it the other day, I think relief was a big factor of that. It was everything I worked on in those couple of months at home was geared toward that week, and now it's been about five, six weeks after, and I'm kind of still thinking about that. It's hard, you kind of have to overcome that. It was a win, but now you've got to come out and you've got to play well in these tournaments. I built up a lot of confidence after that tournament.   
 I know it's been hard for me these last couple of weeks just because I can't practice the way I want to practice. It's very, very frustrating always playing in pain and that kind of thing. But if I overcome this, then my goals are obviously -- and I've never kept quiet on it, I've always wanted to be the No. 1 player in the world and get to that point and stay there.   
 But that's something that I have always, always looked at and hopefully I can get there one day.  
  
  Q. Would you say your career is on course now in terms of where you're at at this age and where you thought you might be here?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Well, that's tough to say because there's lots of tournaments that I felt I should have won, but I've also done really well in events where I wasn't feeling well or I was playing through an injury, playing through pain. But that's sports; you know, it's always that kind of -- that case. There's not many times where you go out there and you're feeling 120 percent. But I've taken it for granted when I have, and I realize what I have and the opportunities that I have, and I want to go out there and play the best golf I can.  
  
  Q. And despite the injury, are you healthy enough to win here this week?  
 PAULA CREAMER: I feel really good. I've been hitting the ball really well, just need my putter to make a couple more putts out there. But my confidence is there. Like I said, I've given myself a lot of chances, I just need to kind of finish the deal.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thank you, Paula.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT