U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2010
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, we're happy to have with us Paula Creamer, who shot a 70 today. I saw the par 18; that was fantastic, but your front nine was particularly good with three birdies. 
 Tell us overall how you felt about the way you played today.
 PAULA CREAMER: Um, well, I started on 3, 3 green. I made par on that hole. Actually, I made an awesome up and down. I hit it over the green on that downslope on the back, and I hit my chip up before they called it yesterday to about a foot. So that was what I had to sleep on for the next -- for today. 
 You know, I played pretty solid. Made a couple errors out on the golf course that, you know, cost me some shots. But I did make some good birdies. You know, I putted the ball really well. I hit my lines that I wanted to.
 You know, I tried to keep it below the hole as much as I could. Even though these greens are a little bit more receptive, they still -- you know, you have to put a premium on keeping it below. 
 But overall, I would say I fought hard. You know, I had a double on No. 10 and came back strong from that.
 THE MODERATOR: Well, not long after you teed off you started your birdie brigade there, because you birdied 6, 7, and 9. Would you please tell us the club you hit into the green and how long those putts were.
 PAULA CREAMER: On 6, I hit 7-iron to about a foot and a half. 
 Um, 7 I went driver. Um, I had about 145. I hit an 8-iron past the pin about 20 feet just on the first cut in the fringe. 
 And then on 9 I went driver, 3-wood just short and chipped up to about 10 feet and made birdie there. 
 Do you want me to go on with the other... 
 THE MODERATOR: Tell us about 10, double bogey.
 PAULA CREAMER: 10 I hit a terrible drive left and hit it in that left bunker and had a really awkward stance, and I actually slipped hitting the bunker shot out and got it caught up in the rough. 
 I hit a really good shot off of the downhill lie. It just shot out to the right. That's the one place that you cannot hit. That was something that I was saying earlier with the mistakes that I made. I put the ball in the wrong spot in that right bunker, and I just had to hit it out into the of the middle the green and two-putt. 
 And then bogey on 12, par-5. Hit a good drive. I hit, I thought, a relatively good second shot, my 3-wood, but I guess it just somehow bounced pretty hard right into that right fairway bunker. I had to, once again, chip out. I had about 100 yards for my next shot, and I two-putt interested about 25, 30 feet. 
 And then birdie on 13. It was about 130, I believe, it played, and I hit a 9-iron to about six, seven feet. 
 And then birdie on 17. I hit driver onto the front left half of the green, kind of on the first cut of the fringe, and I two-putted. I made about an eight-footer.
 THE MODERATOR: And a great up and down on No. 18 making, what was that, about an eight-foot putt for your par?
 PAULA CREAMER: Probably about seven or eight feet, yeah. 
 THE MODERATOR: You're the first player we've had in today, so just briefly tell us how the course played after all that rain. 
 PAULA CREAMER: You know, the fairways were a little bit softer. The ball still would run out. You know, the greens were much more receptive. Like I said, you still have to keep the ball below the hole. When you have a wedge you have to kind of watch your spin. 
 But, you know, the superintendent out here, all the golf, the maintenance guys, they did one heck of a job. I mean, that golf course, you would never even guess it had so much rain. I take my hat off to them. They did a wonderful job getting it ready for us today. 
 The bunkers were fine, and I know that yesterday they were all under water. I was in a lot of 'em today and they were pretty good. (Laughing.)
 THE MODERATOR: I think they started about 12:45 this morning with lights on their helmets.
 PAULA CREAMER: I don't know how they did it, but thank you to them.
 THE MODERATOR: Questions? 

 Q. This obviously isn't the first time that you've had to finish a round and start another round in the same day. Can you talk about how that might alter your preround routine? Can you just talk about that a little bit?
 PAULA CREAMER: Well, I'll still take it like I do every round. You know, I'll try and get off my feet for a while, eat some lunch. Probably be one of the last groups out in the afternoon. I mean, I have some time. I'm trying to get away from golf for a little bit. 
 Then when it comes time to get ready, I'll do my normal routine. I may not hit quite as many balls just to save my thumb. It's gonna be a lot of golf that I haven't done in quite some time.
 You know, that will be something in the back of my mind. I don't want to get my hand too tired before I go out there.

 Q. Having the injury probably forced you to develop some patience that you might not have had before. Do you see that helping you here on a course like this?
 PAULA CREAMER: Oh, without a doubt. Definitely. 
 I had to be patient my whole time, you know, recovering through therapy, through all of that. You know, you get your cast off, and the first thing you do is want to put a golf club in your hand. In reality, you have to be more careful than you do with your cast on. 
 I think that I have learned a lot in these last couple of months just about, you know, myself and what I want, and I know that I can get in my way. I think that I have matured over these last couple months. It shows. 
 I've been able to finish strong today, even though I was kind of on a roll and then, you know, you hit kind of a bus out there for a while at No. 10 and you don't know what's gonna happen. I just fought through it.
 To me, that's something that my maturity has showed to myself.

 Q. Due to the changing conditions from the rain to today, do you change the way you look at the course? You don't really have a lot of time overnight for something like that, so can you talk about maybe some of the things you did a little bit differently today. 
 PAULA CREAMER: Well, you definitely -- I mean, even in the last couple days, you pay so much attention to other people's balls out there, how they bounce, how they play. 
 Today I had to do the same thing. You know, you could feel it in your shoes. The grass was a little bit softer; the greens weren't quite as firm as what they were. The first couple holes, it's, you know, kind of a learning experience. 
 You've gotta just kind of think of what you do. The good thing about when the greens are a little bit more receptive is you can stay below the hole a little bit better.
 At the first couple of holes, I kind of, you know, you misjudge it a little bit, but then you kind of find your rhythm. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT