U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2010
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR: All right, Paula, great playing today. You really distanced yourself; bogeyed on No. 13. What happened on that?   
 PAULA CREAMER: I just put the ball in the wrong place on the green. I actually made a great first putt to about five-and-a-half feet, and second putt had a foot break. I hit a good putt, it just didn't go in. You have to accept that.   
 Unfortunately, you know, my approach shot to the green, I just didn't place it in the right position.  
 MODERATOR: Overall you've got to be pleased with the way you played today.  
 PAULA CREAMER: Definitely. Played really consistent, stuck to my game plan, hitting lots of greens. Just, you know, I know birdies will come.   
 Every time I get a par, I know I'm not losing any ground. I can just keep on going with that mindset.  
 MODERATOR: Questions?   
  
  Q. You've already mentioned being consistent, but you seem to be there. 1-under, even, all day long.  
 PAULA CREAMER: Uh-huh.  
  
  Q. How could you do that on this golf course, because everybody else is just going up and down like a yo-yo?   
 PAULA CREAMER: You know, I'm just trying to stay as patient as I can. I knew that going into this tournament, you know, over par would win, or I have that kind of ingrained in my mind that if I just, you know, kept going along and making as many pars as I can, you know, that I would be in contention.  
 You know, today was a tough day. I got here at 5:30 here this morning, and it's 9:00 now. That's a lot of golf. On this golf course, I mean, 18 holes is hard enough, let alone how many we played today.  
 I just kept telling myself, Just keep making pars, hitting the middle of the greens, stay below the hole.  
  
  Q. What did you play, 25 holes today? Something like that?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Something like -- I don't know.  
  
  Q. How did your thumb hold up? Do you have any concerns about it holding up overnight and going into tomorrow?  
 PAULA CREAMER: It's tired. My whole left hand is pretty tired. That's to be expected. I haven't played this much golf, jeez, since last year. And, you know, I had two warmups. I played just a lot of golf today, and, you know, the previous days, as well.   
 But, you know, I'll get some ice on it. I'll probably sleep with an ice bag on my hand. I'm afraid to take this tape off. My thumb is just going to explode out of it. You know, we're just trying -- the more I think about making pars, the less my thumb bothers me. (Laughing.)  
  
  Q. Obviously when you came here you wanted to win, but you haven't played a whole lot. Your thoughts being in this, you know, final round tomorrow, being out front, and, you know, the chances of winning this thing, you know.  
 PAULA CREAMER: Well, I think that's, you know, the key to it is I'm very -- I'm just very excited to be here. It's been a really, really tough last couple of months, and, you know, even these last three weeks have been difficult.   
 You know, I haven't been able to play the game that I've wanted, you know, let alone even hitting balls off the ground. Who would have thought that would be such a big thing in someone's mind, especially a professional golfer. You'd expect them to hit balls off the range, off the ground.  
 But, you know, I'm just so excited to play in this tournament. I always have. This has always been one of my favorite events. It's kind of a challenge to myself to see, you know, how I can -- how I've grown up over the years, how I've learned from my experiences.   
 I think that's my challenge this week is just, you know, trying to get better every year that I play in it. You know, go in tomorrow and I'll take what it gives me. I'm still gonna be excited to just be out there and hopefully have a chance to win. There's still a lot of golf left.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT