SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC
June 20, 2010
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You did some good tweeting.   
 PAULA CREAMER: Oh, definitely. I mean, gees, if someone was going to say you're going to play in the lead group in your first tournament back out in whatever, how many months, I would take it in a heartbeat.   
 You know, the first thing that you're going to lose is your touch and your feel, and I struggled a bit with my wedges. It's just so hard for me to hit that high shot. My wrist and my thumb just doesn't want to flip it.  
 All day today I struggled with keeping the ball on line. I kept pulling it, and that's my miss, is the compensation of my right arm. That's, without a doubt, that's coming from my hand.   
 But you know, I take so many positives out of it. To have a chance to win on Sunday and to get those nerves out, to get back into that competitive mode on the last day is something that I would have been grateful for if somebody told me that last week.   
 You know, I didn't win, but I played great. I would have had to play pretty good on the back side to have a chance.  
  
  Q. Did anything feel particularly rusty on Sunday in terms of just being back in contention?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Well, it was kind of not nerve-wracking or anything, but just you get to feel those emotions, you know, the first couple of holes and the last couple of holes, you get to feel that pressure sense, and you know, I haven't felt that for a really long time. And to get that right back in your first tournament back was kind of a wake-up call in a sense. But taking it into next week I feel a little bit more prepared. I got that rust brushed off a bit.   
 But you know, it was a good tournament. I hit a lot of good shots and made a lot of good putts.  
  
  Q. Is there anything that you can do between now and then to shake off the rust given the fact that you're probably going to want to rest a little bit?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Yeah.  
  
  Q. You can't practice very much?  
 PAULA CREAMER: No. No. Tomorrow I might putt a little bit and chip. I won't hit or anything. I'll wait for Tuesday to play in the Pro Am, and we'll see on Wednesday.   
 But you know, it just gets a little bit stronger every day. Today was tough because we had that side wind pretty much the whole Back 9, and that's my favorite shot is that kind of hold-off, hold-it-against-the-wind shot. And I just could never do it, and with me missing it left all day was not the two that you want to put together.   
 But hopefully that kind of stuff comes back, those little 7-irons, little 8-irons where you have to take a bunch of yardage off is tough for me, and that's something that I'm going to start working on more and more on the range when I'm out there.  
  
  Q. Is it good that it's a three-round tournament?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Yeah.  
  
  Q. You can sort of progress and see?  
 PAULA CREAMER: For me, definitely. My thumb is, it's feeling it. It's tired. This is a lot of golf for me that I haven't been able to do, and that's why we're out here, to know what I have to do. I have to kind of overcome this whole thing and take it tournament by tournament.   
 And you know, going into next week, gees, I mean I feel pretty good considering what's happened. I mean I can only take confidence away from this week going into a major.  
  
  Q. What does it say about your athleticism and your tenacity and your game that you were able to sort of change things and still compete, and do you take anything from that going forward? Do you simplify when you're perfectly healthy?  
 PAULA CREAMER: You know, it's definitely you're going to have to -- I'm going to have to reevaluate a lot of things. You know, you look back on my wins and things like that, and you know, you see why it happened, and this week I didn't win, but I kind of overcame a lot of things in my mind.   
 And being able to play within myself and tell myself, no, you can't hit a knock-down or you're just going to have to hit two more clubs and trust it, that's kind of overcoming a lot more than what you would normally do on a driving range or even winning a tournament in a sense because I had no expectations. I mean I was just coming out here, seeing what was going to happen, and I came away in my mind a winner myself.   
  
  Q. When you left back in February, Lorena was No. 1 player in the world. The landscape has kind of changed a lot.   
 PAULA CREAMER: Yeah.  
  
  Q. And now obviously Ai. What are your thoughts on Ai and how she's kind of changed her whole game?  
 PAULA CREAMER: You know, Ai is not only one of the greatest golfers out here, but she is such a good person. Japan should be so proud because she represents her country to the highest level.   
 And you know, I know Ai really well. She's a good friend of mine, so to see her succeed, and when she went through that rough patch a couple years ago, it's amazing how she's totally overcome all of that.   
 It's funny we were talking about it the other day she misses a cut and wins a tournament. You know, it's like what are you doing, girl?   
 I mean, but it's confidence, and that's all golf is is so much confidence and believing in yourself, and being put in that situation time and time again, and that's what she's been giving herself is that chance to win and she's been doing it on Sunday.  
  
  Q. What was her answer when you asked her what are you doing, girl?  
 PAULA CREAMER: No, she's just so cute. You know Ai, she just kind of laughs and says, oh, Paula, that kind of thing.   
  
  Q. Thank you. Good tournament. Well done. See you next week.  
 PAULA CREAMER: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT