LORENA OCHOA INVITATIONAL BY BANAMEX AND CORONA LIGHT
November 14, 2009
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Tough ending for you today but you're still right in the hunt for your first victory of the season tomorrow. If you would, just take us through your day. 
 PAULA CREAMER: You know, I played well all day. It's just unfortunate the last four holes, too many bogeys. But other than that, I feel like I'm right in contention and I'm ready to go out, especially with the finish. Kind of makes me want to go play some more right now. 

 Q. You were in the lead for some time. Did that apply any pressure for you? 
 PAULA CREAMER: No, not at all. There's still a lot of golf left. I just made some mistakes down the stretch that I normally don't make. I got above the hole way too many times, and when you're putting above the hole here, it's very difficult. 

 Q. What happened to your putting? You had a lot of chances for birdie and just didn't seem to work. 
 PAULA CREAMER: Like you said, I gave myself a lot of opportunities to make putts. They just didn't all go in today. 
 You know, playing with Jiyai, she's one of the most patient players since Annika. So watching her, I have to realize that I have to be patient and birdies will come, and they did come more in the middle of the round. 

 Q. Can you talk about going through the difficult emotions on the course? 
 PAULA CREAMER: It's very hard to describe the emotions that go on. You know, you're so mad at yourself on one hole, and the only thing you think about is bouncing back and making birdie. 
 Obviously that wasn't the way I had planned with that putt, but when that happens, you just have to kind of shake your head and laugh. The killer was the next hole. 

 Q. What happened on the shot -- inaudible.
 PAULA CREAMER: I was watching it. I thought it was a lot closer than that, but I know that the crowd was helping it come backwards and back. I wish I would have yelled a little bit louder; maybe it would have gone half the distance. 
 Like I said yesterday, it's really nice coming here. There's so many fans. They love women's golf and I'm happy to give all of the credit to Lorena for bringing golf to México. It's nice to come here and play in front of everybody. 

 Q. Do you realize that you are the second most popular here next to Lorena, how does that feel? 
 PAULA CREAMER: It's really nice. I wish I could sign more and more, but because of the tee times, they are so late, there's only so many minutes that we have afterwards to actually practice before it gets dark. But tomorrow obviously I'll be able to sign a lot more for the fans, because some of those kids, they follow you 18 holes running around, and I just wish I could sign everything for them. 
 But like I said, it's really nice to come here because they really do enjoy it and they appreciate it. 

 Q. How do you feel about tomorrow, do you have any expectations?
 PAULA CREAMER: No, I'm ready to go. I want to go out there and play. I haven't been in this situation for quite some time, and I'm ready to go. I'm excited. I'm looking forward to playing tomorrow and having a chance to win a golf tournament. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thank you, Paula. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT