LORENA OCHOA INVITATIONAL BY BANAMEX AND CORONA LIGHT
November 12, 2009
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Inaudible.  
 PAULA CREAMER: No, I don't think there's any correlation with that. I just didn't play -- I remember last year I was really struggling with my putting, so this year I knew going into this week that I kind of struggled with my putting on these greens, so I had been practicing a lot on the putting green and it's paid off. But I don't think because I played with Lorena last year that was -- no, I think it was just my golf.   
  
  Q. You had a difficult year. What would it do to your season to give you a victory, say, in this tournament? You talked about taking a break, how would that change your break?   
 PAULA CREAMER: Well, it would make things a lot easier in the off-season, a lot more exciting I guess you could say. It's nice to have a good round but there's three more days left. I have to keep focused on that, and I have next week. But a win here would be huge. It would be, considering I don't like to dwell on the year, but what I've had to go through, it would be nice.   
  
  Q. How do you think the course will play this weekend?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Well, if they keep not watering the greens, it's going to get harder and harder. There are certain greens out here that are like rocks, and I think by Sunday it could be a completely different golf course. So it's hard to say. I mean, there were some tough pins, and I'm sure they are just going to get tougher and tougher. So I don't think there's going to be too many birdies made. It will just make it a little bit harder every day.   
 17 is a tough hole. Today you saw Suzann, she hit it just short, and I hit it a yard on and it released over, and Michelle hits 5-iron or something and it's over the green. It's just a very difficult hole. It's nice, though, that it's the last one, because anything can happen.   
  
  Q. Which was the shot of the day for you today?   
 PAULA CREAMER: I would actually say it was probably the putt on No. 4. I got up-and-down on No. 4. I 3-putted the hole before, so I was a little bit upset and I made about a 6-footer above the hole. I think that just got my momentum kind of back in it instead of kind of dwelling about the 3-putt before, because it was just tiny one on the par 5, and I got a birdie on the next hole. But I feel that that putt was kind of a momentum changer for myself.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thank you, Paula.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT