LORENA OCHOA INVITATIONAL BY BANAMEX AND CORONA LIGHT
November 10, 2009
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Paula, thanks for coming in. If you would, just talk a little bit about Lorena's tournament and just being here.   
 PAULA CREAMER: It's great to come back to Guadalajara. It's a great golf course, and they do a good job in hosting us. It's a lot of fun to come to her home where she grew up and learned how to play. It's pretty exciting to come here.   
  
  Q. Inaudible.  
 PAULA CREAMER: I packed -- inaudible -- I've been to México, and so I have to be extra careful of what to eat. Certain things my body does not agree with. I do all right and do the best I can with what I have and probably that they have here, but just that one time, my whole body, and I have to be very, very careful.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about your Tweeting?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Well, the Twitter, it's a good way to interact with your fans. Sometimes I go overboard on it, but just kind of to let people know what you're doing on a daily basis and what's going on in your life is pretty cool, and I follow other athletes, just to see what they do.   
  
  Q. How can you describe your year, kind of bittersweet?   
 PAULA CREAMER: It's been very hard this year, but for the most part -- what I had -- my body, and so far it's been pretty good. There was times where I really didn't I think was going to be able to make it out there, but hopefully 2009 is almost done and 2010 will be a lot better.   
  
  Q. Do you think that right now in your preseason --  
 PAULA CREAMER: Or like next -- oh, definitely. Probably for the past couple of months -- since December, I'm going to get some rest and take a vacation. I'll work out and all that but no golf, just a little rest and a break. It's been a really hard year and I want do be able to take back with me some positives.   
  
  Q. You're one of most popular players in México. How do you feel about that?   
 PAULA CREAMER: It's very nice. It's much better than being the worst, or the most hated golfer here. (Laughter).  
 I think it's very nice, considering we only come here four times a year, and to have a fan base, it's very nice and it makes it a lot of fun coming out.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the Solheim Cup, give us your highlights?   
 PAULA CREAMER: Solheim was great. It's always fun representing your country. It was a great team and the captain, Beth Daniel, did a wonderful job. It came down to the wire, it really did, and all of the memories that come from it, I'm looking forward to the next one in Ireland already.   
  
  Q. What are your expectations for this tournament? How do you see the other players?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Well, I'm starting to hit the ball a lot better. I switched back to my old irons right now. I've kind of done some equipment changes. I feel like I'm starting to hit the ball with a little bit more power, and I'm starting to putt the ball actually, instead of missing. But I feel prepared. I like this golf course. It sets up really well for my game, so I feel like I should be in contention coming in on Sunday.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT