U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2009
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. (Indiscernible.)
 PAULA CREAMER: It's difficult to say. If I hit a good bunker shot there, then maybe we wouldn't be sitting here talking about it, but unfortunately I hit a horrible bunker shot and if I could do it all over again I would probably lay it up. My wedges have been good this weekend. 
 I'm not sure what happened there. Just kind of felt like one shot after another seven times. After that, it was difficult to bounce back, especially on the back side. There's not as many birdies on the back side as I feel there are on the front. That's not quite the momentum I wanted going into the back. 

 Q. Was there something specifically that you were feeling off the tee? Because on 8 and then 9, you know, you probably didn't have the drives you were looking for. 
 PAULA CREAMER: You know, I guess I just -- I mean, the easiest thing to say is I woke up on the wrong side of the bed today. You know, even from the first hole, I mean, I had 65 yards and I didn't hit the green. 
 You know, it was unfortunate. I just didn't have anything really going. I think I've hit it in almost every bunker in this golf course the past three days. I'd love to see my stats with that, because they're through the roof in the sand. My poor caddie. 
 I feel it's an unfortunate day. I shot 79. I played bad. You know, I guess I deserved to shoot that.

 Q. (Indiscernible.)
 PAULA CREAMER: Well, I tried you know, on the next tee shot. You have to just let it go. I kind of stood on the green there and just tried to get all my emotions out. 
 It was difficult, because I made a good par on 9, and I don't think I fully recovered, you know, after the triple, but I made a lot of great saves on the back side. 
 I can't tell you how many greens I missed this week. I feel kind of -- not rusty in a sense, but it's not quite my iron shots that I normally, you know, can look at. 

 Q. Is your thumb okay?
 PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, my thumb is okay. You know, little achy here and there, but that's not why I played bad, you know. I wish I could blame it on that but I can't. I just didn't play well. 

 Q. I hate to ask you this, but you said you let your emotions out on that green. Tears?
 PAULA CREAMER: No, I just stood there and --

 Q. It looked like it on television. 
 PAULA CREAMER: Oh, did it? No, I was -- I was standing there and, you know, looking at the hole and thinking, how did you just hit it seven times on this hole? 
 That's really what I was going over, and I was thinking there's a lot of golf left. You have this back 9 and then you've got 18 holes tomorrow. Just don't dig yourself a deeper hole than you're already in. And it didn't quite come back as well as I wanted.

 Q. Did you feel the course played a little bit more difficult today maybe it has the first two rounds?
 PAULA CREAMER: Um... 

 Q. Players out there are struggling with some shots. 
 PAULA CREAMER: Yes and no. For me, obviously it felt like it played a lot harder. You know, playing with Cristie, she played great, so you look at how she played 1 over. I would have taken even par. 
 You know, I said at the beginning of the day I'll shoot even, 1 over par and I'll be pleased with that. It's not going to get easier. We know that going into it. 
 But the pin placements were difficult, and if you miss it in the wrong spots, you're going to make bogey and that's what I did. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT