U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2009
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Great finish, right? Tell us about that putt.   
 PAULA CREAMER: It was on the right side of the green, about a 35-footer, 30, 40 feet. I practiced it maybe five or six times in the practice rounds, so I kind of knew what it was going to be like.   
 It was a good way to finish today. I just battled it out best I could, made great pars and good birdies, tried to keep myself in this thing.  
  
  Q. Talk about 9. You had one of the two birdies. The length of the hole, how much do you think that causes problems?  
 PAULA CREAMER: It's a perfect 5-wood for me. You have to land it around 205, so it's a perfect 5-wood. I hit a great shot. Kind of took the slope to about 7, 8 feet. It was a good putt.   
 I felt like I hit the ball decent. You know, when I hit it well it was really close. When I hit it bad, it was really far off.  
 So I'll be going to the driving range afterwards. If I can play the way I did today with not feeling like I drove the ball as good as I normally do, I think I'm sitting pretty good.  
  
  Q. Are you pain-free?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, I was. You know, I think -- in situations like this, I don't even think I can feel anything. You're just so mentally focused on everything going on out there. I don't feel -- I'll go ice it before I go to the range, but it's holding up, and hopefully it can hold up for two more days.  
  
  Q. The crowds following you, does it get you much more pumped up?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Oh, without a doubt. I've always said I love playing in front of a gallery. The fans here -- it's unbelievable. It's like a football game out there.   
 That's what you want. You want to hit great shots in front of people and have that support. Definitely with those par saves, they were right there with me and grinding it out.  
  
  Q. Any one particular shot, a hole that fans cheered, got you to a better feel?  
 PAULA CREAMER: There's a lot out there, you know. Some big par saves I made, some really good fairway bunker shots. I think the birdie on 5 today just started the round for me, the up-and-down on 2, a big crowd cheering for that. It's a good hole.   
 Overall, they were there from the first tee to the 18th green. That's pretty impressive out here.  
  
  Q. 16 and 17 you had some scary downhill putts. What's your feel on that? Just try to get it below the hole to five, six feet?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Exactly. It's so hard to -- you know, these greens just are so much break going on. I hit good shots going into -- 17 I didn't hit such a good iron shot, but 16 I did. I'm left with this, you know, huge breaking downhill putt.   
 All you can do is give yourself an uphill putt the next one. That's what I kept thinking, give yourself -- even if it's a seven-footer. At least it's straight uphill and you don't have to really think too much about the break.   
  
  Q. Just given all that's gone on this week, how important is it for the Tour to have two American players, you and Cristie, two big names playing well going into the weekend?  
 PAULA CREAMER: I think it's great. It seems like our Majors lately there have been more and more Americans in the top bunch, which is good to see, especially in the U.S. Open.   
 Any tournament, it's wonderful to see Americans, but especially here, with all these fans and everything, the kids, to see that, give them some, I guess, hope in a sense that they can get involved with golf because we are out here.   
  
  Q. There were a few women wearing pink because of you. How about a sea of pink? Would you like to start seeing that?  
 PAULA CREAMER: It's amazing. When I first came out here I was 18. This is five years later, but pink is becoming so popular. The little girls, it's great. Even little boys. I think it's cool when you can see the 8-, 9-, 10-year-old boys running around in their pink shirts. It's great.   
 I love to see that. Hopefully in a sense that's kind of moving the needle for junior golf.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT