RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 3, 2017
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What a week you've had.  You finish in a tie for 13th at the Ladies' Scottish Open, you have to Monday qualify for the Women's British Open, you do so at the Castle Course at St. Andrews.  How has your last week been?
PAULA CREAMER: It's been a little dramatic in certain ways, but such is golf.  I was prepared.  I found out after the U.S. Open actually that I wasn't in the British, and what are you going to do, you've got to go out and you've got to qualify, and I did.  I played really well.  I played really well last week, also, so going into this event, I feel good.  I'm glad I'm here.  I've been playing awesome.  Just a couple putts out there today that didn't go my way, but it's a fun golf course, and I mean, this weather is just absolutely perfect.  You can go so low today.
Q. How important was it for you to get back in the field again this year?
PAULA CREAMER: I mean, I don't think it's all just about that.  I think it's more about the way that I'm playing golf.  I mean, yes, it was crazy trying to have to qualify.  I've never had to do that as a professional.  I've always done it as an amateur.  But this was a good learning experience.  I mean, if you want pressure, there's not much more pressure you can get than trying to Monday qualify for a major.  I played well and carried it over into today.
Q. Juli will be making her two Solheim Cup picks on Sunday.  You received one two years ago.  You've played in them consecutively for the last several years, six appearances total.  How much has that been on your mind this summer as a whole?
PAULA CREAMER: Obviously there's nothing better than representing your country, and by far that's the best event.  For me I've played my best golf during that, including last year when I was a captain's pick.  I know I can do it.  I know I can pull my own weight.  But we'll see what Juli's decision is at the end of the week, but hopefully I'm there to represent because I know I won't let my team down.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT