SYBASE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY SHOPRITE
May 16, 2009
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Paula, thanks for coming in. A nice round today, 4-under par and it's put you in the hunt for your first victory of the year. If you would, talk about your play and how you feel going into tomorrow.   
 PAULA CREAMER: I putted really well today, even some of the putts that didn't go in, they were really what I've been working on, which is a positive. I gave myself plenty of chances. I'm hitting the ball great, driving the ball really well, so I'm basically giving myself as many chances as I possibly can on this golf course.   
  
  Q. Would you talk about your recovery on 12?   
 PAULA CREAMER: On 11 green, I felt after I hit my wedge shot, I had like a knot in my shoulder under my shoulder blade, I don't know what it is, but it was driving me crazy. I could never get through the ball and I was calling my caddie to try and work on it. I don't know, just kind of tweaked it somehow. I never was comfortable the whole round, the whole rest of the back nine.   
 But, yeah, 12 was disappointing because I had plenty of club. I just got really quick. Just wasn't a good swing at a bad moment with the water there. After that double, I just really told myself, you have so many holes left, get it to around 10-under par and that's right where you would want to be.   
  
  Q. Do you like the chase, or would you rather be chased?   
 PAULA CREAMER: I should like the chase now since that's where I'm at. But I do, I like being able to put pressure on people, and hopefully going out, I can be a couple of groups in front of the leaders, or I may be in the group right in front. If I start off strong like I did today, you know, who knows what will happen.   
  
  Q. What have you been working on with your putting?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Just my overall stroke. I've been working on it for the last couple of months. It seemed like ever since I've been sick, I couldn't hit a lot of balls, so I've been really working on my short game and my putting and my chipping, and just trusting my lines. I tend to over-read and over-aim, so my caddie has been really looking at the face of my putter.   
  
  Q. Some girls have been having problems making reads; how have you found them as far as the reading goes?  
 PAULA CREAMER: They are difficult. You really have to feel the grass out there. There are just so many different types out on these greens and they are really kind of bumpy. It's interesting, it's kind of hit-and-hope on some parts.   
 But the closer you hit it, I said yesterday, the closer you hit it, the easier the putts are. Come.  
  
  Q. Coming into today, you were six shots back; was the game plan just to get close?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Without a doubt. My game plan today was to move up the leaderboard as far up as I possibly could. I feel like I did that, even though I made the double on 12, I still made a lot of birdies and that was my plan. So I feel like I'm in the right position right now.   
  
  Q. What did you hit on 12?  
 PAULA CREAMER: 5-iron. It was weird because I had 165 irons and I hit my 5-iron about 175, so I had more than enough club. It was just a bad swing.   
  
  Q. Where were you going into Sunday when you won the Sybase?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Oh, I was a couple back. I think I might have been two back. I wasn't in the lead group. I was in the group in front. I don't quite remember, though.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: All right, Paula, thanks a lot.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT