KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 31, 2009
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE: Thank you all for joining us. Paula, welcome to the interview room. You're in the Kraft Nabisco Championship this week, four starts, two Top 10 finishes, eight career wins. What's going to be different this week?   
 PAULA CREAMER: It's just going out and playing the golf course. It's in phenomenal shape. It's the best I've seen in the last couple of years. It's really nice to come to.   
 I feel prepared. Last week was a little bit of a struggle, but mentally I have to kind of forget that and go out and play my game.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: We'll take questions. Please use the microphone.   
  
  Q. How are you feeling?  
 PAULA CREAMER: No. That's the hardest part because I can't eat much. My energy levels are kind of low. I don't feel quite like my normal self out there, but I just have to find some energy and get through.   
 I'm really pacing myself and not try and do too much too fast. I practiced the short game this morning, and I hit 35 minutes before my tee time. I'm not really hitting as much. Just trying to conserve energy.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible question).   
 PAULA CREAMER: Definitely. It is. However, we'll take any win at the same time, but people always look at the majors.   
 I look at the majors, and this week all I'm trying to look at as in any other tournament, and see what happens. You know, you go out and play 54 rounds of golf, and hopefully you'll be in contention on Sunday and that's what you have to do every week.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible question).   
 PAULA CREAMER: The greens. They're just going to get firmer and firmer as the days go on.   
 The rough, I'm sure, is going to keep growing and get thicker, but pretty much the pin placement's around the same every year, but I really feel the greens speeds are going to be what causes it, and hopefully we'll get some wind as well. That kind of makes things a little more interesting out there.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible question).  
 PAULA CREAMER: Are they quicker than normal? I would definitely say they are quicker than normal. They have been. They're rolling very purely. Their shores are tight. They're pretty firm.   
 I didn't play the course today. I was on the other one, so I'm not quite sure how much firmer they were than yesterday, but I mean I would assume they're not watering them too much.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible question).  
 PAULA CREAMER: Whatever that is appealing and stays down is my diet. It's not much. It really isn't. It's hard, but you know, I try to eat as much as I can. It doesn't agree well with me right now.   
 I mean today I had some ice cream. That was my lunch, and that's all my stomach can really handle, which isn't bad. Right? You know, it's nice, but it's not very nutritious.  
  
  Q. Phil Mickelson won at Doral when he wasn't feeling well. Do you feel that way?  
 PAULA CREAMER: I've won sick before. I think it really just makes you focus on other things. You know, you're out there, you don't feel well, but you're getting the job done.   
 I think it is, it's interesting how it happens. I've played my best golf when I haven't felt well. I can take it. If I play well, I can handle it, but I'd like to know what is wrong with me.   
  
  Q. Is there a major that -- a course or anything you favor that you really think is your best shot?  
 PAULA CREAMER: I'd like to say all of them are my best shot. It's hard to just pick and choose one of them.   
 This golf course is great for my game. You have to be really precise with your irons, give yourself good chances and have to be accurate off the tee.  
 I've always said I like the narrow golf courses, where you have to hit good golf shots, and you have to do that here, especially this week because of the greens and the rough is getting thicker.  
  
  Q. I know you said you're prepared. Can you tell me is that because of quality of practice or quantity of practice or how has that changed, since you didn't play last week?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Yeah. Well, I would definitely say the quality. When I'm out there, I'm really focusing really hard on getting the job done. If I'm going out there to do my speed putting, okay, do your speed putting.   
 There's not much wasted time. People tend to practice so much in the majors, and you feel like you have to just go out and work as hard as you can, but in reality, for me my best thing is rest, trying to get better on that part.   
  
  Q. How much weight have you lost?  
 PAULA CREAMER: A lot. It's hard. I lost nine pounds when I was over in Singapore and Thailand, and then I gained some of it back, and I've lost about six in the last five days.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Any more questions? Okay, thank you, Paula.   
 PAULA CREAMER: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT