HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 8, 2009
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tell us about today how you felt? You came out firing from the box?   
 PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, my game plan was to come out strong. You know, 2 under through 4 is not bag. But it was nothing like Ji-Yai, she really played awesome today. I take my hat off for how she played. It was quite impressive.  
  
  Q. For your performance, happy overall?   
 PAULA CREAMER: I had a decent week. Unfortunately, a couple of critical bogies here and there. I would have liked to have finished at 7 yesterday instead of 6.   
 But overall I had a great week here in Singapore. I love coming here. It's a little hot, but there's nothing you can do about that. The fans were great. Hopefully next time I come back I can win a tournament here.   
  
  Q. Do you think you would have done better if not for the illness?   
 PAULA CREAMER: You know, I played my best when I was my most sick. So I don't know about that.   
 However, you know, you have to take it day by day. It was unfortunate the last couple of days I never made as many putts as I should have. But it's all right.   
  
  Q. The last week you really pushed in there, you're up in contention every week. Do you feel this is kind of you've found your peak almost? You're at the top of your game at the moment?   
 PAULA CREAMER: I do, I feel very confident with my game. A third last week, and we'll see what happens, probably a third this week as well. That's good. You know, that's being right in the hunt. That's all you can ask. As long as I keep giving myself chances. The more I learn, and hopefully the more wins I'll have.  
  
  Q. What would be your most memorable moment of this week at the HSBC Women's Champions if something stuck in your mind?   
 PAULA CREAMER: Oh, so many. The HSBC does such a wonderful job, and IMG as well. The caddie party is a lot of fun for us.   
 But just to be able to come out here we're treated so nicely, and I think the fans do a lot for us as well.  
  
  Q. The heat is not a problem?   
 PAULA CREAMER: The heat is a little bit of an issue. I wish I had a portable air conditioner, but I don't.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT