HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 6, 2009
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE: Thank you for coming in. We just talked to Jane Park and you guys are tied for the lead coming into today's round and tied for the lead playing into the weekend. Talk about your day today, a little up-and-down.  
 PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, obviously the score showed that it played harder today. I think it was just a little bit more wet. The greens were a bit slower. That's probably why you didn't see as many putts go in.   
 I really feel that maybe, I don't know, overall it seemed very slow. But there were some good pin placements out there today. A lot of tricky spots, places you couldn't miss. But I felt like I hit the ball as well as I did yesterday. I just really never capitalized with my putter.   
  
  Q. Could you just tell us how you're feeling today? Have you recovered from the virus? Is it still hampering you?   
 PAULA CREAMER: This morning I felt a lot better, actually. I've been taking a lot of medicine to help me. But, kind of, the fourth or fifth hole, I started to feel nauseous again and pretty sick out there.   
 And then on the back nine I think my body is kind of not very happy with me right now, especially being in the heat. So I feel like I'm a little dehydrated, but it's horrible when you can't keep liquids down anyways. I'm trying to drink as much water as I can, but I feel like I am probably a little dehydrated.  
  
  Q. Have you seen a doctor at all?   
 PAULA CREAMER: You know, I don't think there's much a doctor can do. I saw the doctor this morning. Like I said, you can only take so many medications to help you feel better. I think it would be nice to lay in a hotel room or in my own bed for a few days. But when you go out every day and play in this heat, it takes a toll on your body. Hopefully one more good night's sleep. I went to bed at 8 o'clock, so I think I had 12 hours of sleep. I don't think there's much more I can do in that department.   
  
  Q. Jane Park was talking quite a lot about how far you guys go back together. Can you maybe talk a little about Jane who we don't know so much about, and what her attributes are? And what potential you think she has?   
 PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, Jane and I have played a lot of golf together, a lot of junior golf. We were always partners in our team tournaments. We're very, very close, very good friends. She's an excellent golfer as she's shown.   
 I think her demeanor on the golf course is impeccable. She doesn't get upset. She's not overly excited, things like that. She's just very even keel out there. She hits a lot of greens, hits a lot of fairways and is very consistent player.   
  
  Q. What were you telling yourself out there when you were being nauseous? What were you telling yourself?   
 PAULA CREAMER: I used my sun umbrella a lot today. I told myself it's cool under this umbrella. It's cool. Trying to psych myself.   
 But like I said yesterday, you've got to tough it out. When I'm done, I'm done. I'm not practicing after rounds, I'm not doing anything like that to overkill it.   
 But it is, it's hard. You want to feel sorry for yourself but at the same time you want to win a tournament and you can't let it affect you.   
  
  Q. Knowing how competitive you are, I'm sure you don't want Jane to actually beat you on Sunday. But what are your feelings about seeing her up there in a tournament of this scale and right up at the top?   
 PAULA CREAMER: No, like I said, Jane and I are good friends. I like to see her do well, and in her golf. She works very hard. For both of us, you know, to go out and battle for it, it's just a good thing.   
 But at the same time, there are a lot of golfers very, very close together. And there are 36 holes left. Hopefully tomorrow I can make a gap, a big difference out there with the scores. Who knows what it's going to be like. But to see Jane is good.   
  
  Q. Yesterday you mentioned that you kind of play better when you are sick. So in the back of your mind do you wish that you won't get well tonight? Do you have that thought?   
 PAULA CREAMER: I don't know - I have mixed emotions about that. If I play better, then maybe, so be it. But at the same time, I'm not sure how much longer my body's going to allow me to feel this way out there.   
 I like to play healthy. I think that's just the number one goal in mind is to play healthy.   
  
  Q. Any aspects of the game you feel you need to work on going into the weekend that you could improve on?   
 PAULA CREAMER: Well, I think the only thing that kind of held me back today was my putting. I didn't make as many putts as I did yesterday. I didn't birdie all the par 5's like I did yesterday. I gave myself chances on those holes, but like I said earlier, I never really capitalized on them.   
 But since I'm not really practicing after the rounds, I just have to go into it with confidence. In the morning I might practice a little bit longer in my putting. You know, 15 putts around the hole, things like that.   
  
  Q. You are still in the lead up to two rounds, but are you still worried that you might kind of your chances might slip every round? You know that Lorena could still catch up, right?   
 PAULA CREAMER: I hope I don't think like that, Geez. I'm in the wrong sport if I think like that.   
 No, I feel very confident with where I'm at. I feel like I've gained actually something today. The gap yesterday, there were people there, now there's not quite as many, but there are still 3-, 4-, 5-under.   
 But I like being in the lead. I'll take the lead over any place for the day.   
  
  Q. Did the doctor give you any diagnosis? Is it a virus? Or did he say for goodness sakes, stop playing or anything like that?   
 PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, I think it's just a virus. I mean, there's been so many people sick from it, so it can't be hopefully nothing too serious. But I think it's just a virus.   
 They were kind of surprised that I felt the way I did this morning, that I felt better. They were like wow, really. They thought it was going to last a little bit longer. Of course I jinxed myself and here we are struggling.   
  
  Q. You mentioned I think how tight it is at the top of the leaderboard. When it gets to that situation, does that say something about the golf course that you're playing?   
 PAULA CREAMER: Oh, it does, definitely. It's played a lot harder today. I just to have a golf course ... I don't know who was leading after two days last year, I'm not sure. Was it 13 after two days? Geez. That's a huge, a huge difference.   
 But I really feel that it was the greens today. They just weren't quite as pure as they were yesterday. I don't know if it was the rain, the storm last night or what not. But we'll see. Hopefully, if we don't get any rain tonight, it will kind of roll better tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT