HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 5, 2009
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DANA GROSS-RHODE: Paula, thank you for joining us. We were just saying, you had to wait 52 minutes to make a four-foot birdie on18 to go to 5-under, and you're tied in the clubhouse for the lead. What are you doing to have a good round and to have the lead up front? 
 PAULA CREAMER: Well, I don't have to think about it too much. But I'd rather have to putt than come out and have to play a couple of extra holes after sitting in there. 
But I was just kind of bummed that we didn't get to finish, so I could go home. But it was a good day. I hit a lot of really good shots out there. Made some really good putts and just constantly gave myself chance for birdie. 

 Q. You started the day not feeling too well. When did you start feeling better again? Was that affecting your game? 
 PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, I'd probably say I went through several different symptoms today. It's hard to explain. The beginning part I was very sick, very nauseous. And during the middle of the round to the last couple of holes, my body felt terrible, like chills and aching and all of that. So I didn't feel nauseous at that time. It just kind of switched. 
 Now I feel better just sitting down inside. But I went through many different feelings today, not just one pinpoint. 

 Q. How did you manage to keep yourself together?
 PAULA CREAMER: For some reason when I'm sick, I tend to play a little better than I normally do. I don't know what it is. Maybe I'm more relaxed or thinking about that than golf. I'm not sure. But it's just all mindset. I don't feel good, but I still have 18 holes to go out and play just kind of toughed it out and trying to make the best of it. 

 Q. Do you think you picked up this up last week? 
 PAULA CREAMER: I got it this week. People were getting it last week. But there are probably five players, you know, just people I know just like me. 

 Q. Was it the flu or food poisoning or heat? 
 PAULA CREAMER: No, not heat. It definitely wasn't heat. I drank so many bottles of water, I think it's impossible to be dehydrated. It might be dehydration now. But no, it must have been something I ate or what not. I haven't been feeling very well for the last couple of days. 

 Q. Do you know if there are any changes in the course from last year or anything that is slightly different maybe? 
 PAULA CREAMER: No, it's pretty much the same as last year. I just say the green speeds are different. They're much slower this year than they were last year, but that's just because of all the rain that they've had. However, the decisions, the yardages are the same. Very, very similar. 
The rough is probably not quite as thick as it was last year. There's not much rough in general.

 Q. You said on Sunday after the disappointment in Thailand you're going to come here with the fire in your belly.
 PAULA CREAMER: No pun taken.

 Q. Pun was intended. 
 PAULA CREAMER: Is that a question? Oh. No, I was, of course. When I woke up this morning I was thinking, 'Oh, geez, I hope I get to play, and then I played really well. 

 Q. But you were there on Sunday.
 PAULA CREAMER: I'm incredibly motivated. Last week was hard I'm kind of out of it right now. But it was a hard loss. I felt like I played so well that week. I can only take the positives. You can only dwell so long on what happened. I just have to move on. I played well last year, and I felt like I need to come away with it. 

 Q. It's pretty hot and humid here in Singapore. You're out there several hours. How do the conditions and the weather compare to Thailand, the conditions there, and how does that affect your game, the heat and humidity? 
 PAULA CREAMER: You have to be very aware of being hydrated, and the proper food that you need to eat. A lot of fruit. At the same time you have things like that. 
 In Thailand, it was hot, but there's much more breeze. It's pretty close temperature-wise, but it's so much cooler there. Here it's kind of stagnant. I think that's the main difference. 
It's interesting how some days the more humidity here, the ball doesn't go quite as far, and the other days it does go further. I think just looking at the weather and knowing that and feeling that in the air. 

 Q. I remember the last year at the Fields Open in Hawaii, you came into press conference every day and complained every day of how bad you felt?
 PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, that was awful.

 Q. Then walked away with the silverware?
 PAULA CREAMER: Like I said earlier, I play better when I'm sick. Fields, ADT ... 

 Q. You looking forward to tomorrow? 
 PAULA CREAMER: I'm not going to practice at all today. I'm just going to go straight home. Probably just drink a lot of fluids. I probably haven't had as much electrolytes and Gatorades and stuff like that that I need. So I'll probably get a lot of that. 
But at the same time I do, but I feel like I'm getting better. You know, it's only been six hours. But I feel a lot better now than what I did this morning.

 Q. Do you think you can tough it out again tomorrow? 
 PAULA CREAMER: You'll have to carry me out on a stretcher before I'll leave a tournament. I feel like I'll be in a lot of pain, but still I'm going to try to finish unless it's life threatening or what not. 

 Q. You mentioned before the tournament that the pin placement makes the holes tough. How did you find the pin placement today? 
 PAULA CREAMER: They definitely have a lot harder pin placement coming. That's for sure. Today's the first day. But sometimes they tuck the pins in corners and you can't go for them. You have to take your par and move on. 
It was actually a different way today than it was in the past. Normally nine plays downwind, today it was into the wind. So it was kind of a different golf course. But I feel that they're going to make it harder and harder as the days go on. 

 Q. Are you happy with your round considering the other names haven't performed so well?
 PAULA CREAMER: I can only control myself. I can only control my game out there. But at the same time it's a four-day tournament. Today's just the first day. You have to put yourself in a good position which I felt like I'd done, but there is still a lot of golf left. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT