ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
July 30, 2017
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So it's your best round of the week, 3-under par 69.   I know you didn't finish as you might have wanted to but how would you assess the week?  
PAULA CREAMER: I played really well.  I actually played great these last two days.  Hit the ball well.  Missed a lot of birdie opportunities.  Today I played very solid.  It was unfortunate the bogey on the last hole.  You know, it happens.  But it's always harder when it ends on your last hole.   
 Q.  So some confidence heading into the next week?  I know you're not quite in yet but tomorrow you're going to The Castle Course.  Thoughts ahead of that?  
PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, I've never actually had to do this, so this is a new experience.  The last time I had to qualify for something was when I was an amateur for the U.S. Open.  But you know, it is what it is and I'm going to go out and try to play like a one-day tournament and try to win it.  We'll see what happens.   
 Q.  If you go and try to win it, you know there's about 20 spots available with a hundred and something in the field.  There's quite a good percentage of people are going to get in.  Do you go in there trying to win it?  
PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, I'm playing well.  I think we're a little disadvantaged; we haven't seen the course, so it will be important to try to go out there today, drive straight from here and at least walk a couple holes or putt some on the putting green.  That's the hardest thing is you have one day to go out and put a good score together.  You don't need to do anything crazy.   
Like I said, it's kind of a new feeling for me, but I'm ready for the challenge and I want to be in next week for sure.   
 Q.  I don't want to describe it as exciting, but you kind of look like you're kind of interested by the experience.  
PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, I can't go in it with a negative frame of mind.  I think excited is more of the challenge.  I've always liked a challenge.  I mean, obviously this is a little bit more than what I've wanted but I'm playing well.  I've hit the ball really well.  Just comes down to out here, luck of the bounces sometimes.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT