SBS OPEN AT TURTLE BAY
February 11, 2009
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Thanks so much for coming in. Welcome to the event this year. If you would, just talk a little bit about how excited you are to be back, what kind of things you did in the off season, and just give us an idea of how you're feeling right now.   
 PAULA CREAMER: It's always good to start off in Hawaii. It's a beautiful place, and I've won here. It makes it a little easier to come and play.   
 I'm excited to play this event. I'm hitting the ball really well. I have a lot of confidence, and I'm ready for tomorrow to start, I guess. In my off season it's just kind of a waiting game really, how much can you fit in your season to make it that much better for this year, and I feel like I've worked really hard with my coach, David Whelan, and we'll see what happens.   
 I guess the biggest thing in the off season for me is I bought a house, so I'm now officially living on my own, which is exciting. Mom and Dad are around the corner. They're not too far away, which is nice, but you have to start somewhere.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Very good. Questions?  
  
  Q. What are you looking forward to most this year?   
 PAULA CREAMER: Well, I have numerous goals. This year they're more personalized than they've ever been before, but obviously it's Solheim Cup year. That's always great to where red, white and blue, and it's back in the States again, which is always fun. So hopefully we'll have a great week there, but just to go out and play good golf.   
  
  Q. There is a high-profile rookie class this year. You've been on the Tour for a while now. Would you consider yourself a veteran?  
 PAULA CREAMER: I know. It's hard to believe, I'm 22 and I'm considered a veteran. It's amazing. This is my fifth year. You know, I don't know how old you really have to be or how many years declares you to be a veteran. However, there's so much that I can learn, and I do learn every day and every week and every tournament that I'm out here.   
 I just feel like it's a learning experience, and the ones who can perform are able to take that, that information that they've learned and put it on the golf course and take it off the golf course as well.   
 But I don't know. It's hard for me to say I'm a veteran right now. It's really hard. I don't think I am. I don't view myself as that at all.   
  
  Q. Korean players feel at home here in Hawaii. Do you think you can beat them?   
 PAULA CREAMER: I just try to go out and play my own game, play the golf course, and whoever's in contention, you know, I guess that's what you have to go for, but there are a lot of Koreans. It's what golf has become.   
 It's great that they can bring international attention to the LPGA. A lot of them are my friends. It's nice to see that, and they've done a lot for women's golf as well.   
  
  Q. Does it help now that the LPGA can be seen consistently on The Golf Channel starting next year?   
 PAULA CREAMER: No. I think that's very true. To be able to be on a network week in, week out is very important. It's good for the game of women's golf. Hopefully that will help, and a ten-year contract, you can't complain about that.   
  
  Q. What would you miss most of the SBS Open at Turtle Bay if it did not return next year?   
 PAULA CREAMER: I think waking up every morning and looking at that view, you can't mess with that. It's kind of like Half Moon Bay. You see it really from everywhere.   
 I don't know. I think just the fact that I've come here and I've played really well. It's a great tournament. It's exciting to come.   
 You know, you always get that first week out, and I think this was a great place to come.   
 The golf course, you can't complain about that. Having the wind blow every day in different directions, things like that, it just shows who's on top of their game, and I like that. I like that, and everything is so close together. You get a lot of great people to come out and watch, which is very nice.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Anything else? All right. Thank you so much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT