ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 23, 2008
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PAULA CREAMER: It's not the appendix, but it is very swollen, huge. That's why I couldn't have breakfast. I haven't eaten anything so it's not like I've gained weight. It is really weird.
 But they were just awesome at the hospital. I had three cat scans, so, yeah. They got to know me really well.

 Q. Your dad said you had a doctor out here keeping an eye on you, making sure everything was copacetic?
 PAULA CREAMER: I had to take something on the 13th tee. It's called Pink Lady. It's this basically pink medicine. And I said, did you do this on purpose?
 But, I mean, that was the first time I've ever had to spend the night in a hospital, you know. It was my first IV, things like that. It was a first for many things.

 Q. Except the money list?
 PAULA CREAMER: Except the money list.

 Q. Can you block out the million dollars with everything else that's gone on today?
 PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, I wasn't out here for the million dollars. You know, the money, that's just the bonus part of what I do. You know, I was honestly wanting to win tournaments and meet my goals.
 In the beginning of the year, it was five wins, then I got four. And I've always told myself if you don't reach your goals, you have to work that much harder. So this off-season's going to be a tough one for me.

 Q. Did you leave the hospital?
 PAULA CREAMER: The doctors are here. I have my medication already.

 Q. What is the diagnosis, Paula?
 PAULA CREAMER: It's peritonitis.

 Q. Did you check out of the hospital and come straight here this morning?
 PAULA CREAMER: Yes, I left the hospital at 7:00 o'clock this morning.

 Q. Two hours of sleep last night, two hours of sleep the night before?
 PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, it hasn't been much, yeah. It's hard, but you've got to do it early on. I didn't get off to the best start that I wanted.

 Q. Paula, the girl that just won, Shin's got like 21 wins now in the last two years, kind of an unknown quantity. Have you had a chance to play with her?
 PAULA CREAMER: I played with her a couple of times. She's got a great imagination, too. She hits it very straight. I think when she comes over to the LPGA, she's going to be a great player, a great addition to women's golf. I like how she's very, very humble. But at the same time you'd never know that she's had as many wins over in Korea.

 Q. Will there be a great sense of what might have been for the next couple of days as far as getting your fifth, maybe getting that money title?
 PAULA CREAMER: Definitely. I mean, it's hard for me right now, because, yes, I feel so sick. But it's -- and I played well under these circumstances. And what if I was feeling great, what would have happened?
 But at the same time, I think I was the most calm that I've been in a lot of golf tournaments this week. I think just because my mind was not on golf and not really on the outcome, it was just all right, let's make it through 18. And I don't have enough energy to race out there.

 Q. Can you recommend it?
 PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, I recommend getting sick and staying in the hospital (laughing). No.

 Q. What would you say was the turning point?
 PAULA CREAMER: 11 and 12, and 13. I took the medicine on the 13th tee.

 Q. Was it where the doctors said you're good to go, or was it ultimately your call?
 PAULA CREAMER: I told them. I said I have to be out of this hospital at 7:15 at the latest. And they said, okay. So they said, are you sure? And I said, yes. I've gone this far. You want me to come back, I'll come back.

 Q. How are you right now? Is there pain, discomfort?
 PAULA CREAMER: I think my body's just not used to the medication that I'm on right now. So I was incredibly shaky just because I haven't eaten that much. I felt like I couldn't walk a line, that kind of thing.
 I haven't had much potassium and sugar in my blood, so they kind of replenished me. And as I said, I don't feel like myself right now.

 Q. The IV helped quite a bit?
 PAULA CREAMER: It did. I feel fine.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT