LORENA OCHOA INVITATIONAL BY BANAMEX AND CORONA LIGHT
November 12, 2008
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What are your thoughts on the course?   
 PAULA CREAMER: It's wonderful. It's in great shape. The golf course is beautiful. It definitely does not feel like we are in the middle of a big city, that's for sure.   
  
  Q. What do you think the score will be for the winner on Sunday?   
 PAULA CREAMER: It really depends on the hole locations where everybody putts the pin placements. These greens are very difficult, lots of breaks, lots of little sections of greens.   
 You know, if they get much faster, it will be difficult to hold certain greens coming back up the slopes. It just really depends on the hole locations.   
  
  Q. 10-under, 12-under, 14-under?  
 PAULA CREAMER: It's too hard to say. I think it will be lower more than it will be higher.   
  
  Q. How do you feel for the next year without Annika Sorenstam being on the Tour?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, it's going to be very different with her not being out on Tour. However she's done so much for the game; you have to respect her decisions and what she's doing, and I wish her and her fiancée, Mike, nothing but the best. And I think that we will see her soon, though.   
  
  Q. What about your play and your expectations for the next year?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Definitely this off-season I'm going to work very hard and I'll take a nice break after the Lexus Cup and kind of re charge the batteries and then get right back out hitting balls and working on my swing and just getting ready for a good year hopefully.   
  
  Q. What is your feeling about being on Lorena Ochoa's home course; did you expect it to be like this?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Well, obviously you know that she's going to be practicing at a wonderful place. To be as good as she is, she has to have wonderful or nice resources, putting and chipping and things like that.   
 So I knew that was going to be very nice. But the whole atmosphere, everything, from the pool to the gym to the clubhouse, it's very beautiful.   
  
  Q. Do you think that because Lorena Ochoa knows this course so well, that she could just run away with the tournament?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Well, she definitely has an advantage, that's for sure. This is her home course for a very, very long time, and the hardest part about this golf course is the greens. The more you get to putt on them, the more you play them, the better that you get to understand them and know them, and I definitely think that she has somewhat the upper hand.   
  
  Q. What are the feelings of Lorena Ochoa on the LPGA Tour all around?   
 PAULA CREAMER: She's very much very well known to be very liked. She's a wonderful person, a great golfer.   
 I think what she's done for herself being here with her foundation, it's amazing. She really has done such a wonderful job being who she is and showing that, and I respect that more than anything.   
  
  Q. Have you been playing a course with kikuyu grass?  
 PAULA CREAMER: I have a couple other times. There's some courses in Florida that actually have that type of grass, and it's very similar to -- it's not quite the same but very similar to the grass in Japan. The rough, the ball sits up. The fairways are like carpet; they are perfect, the ball kind of just sits there. However, you'd rather be in the fairways than the rough.   
 It is, it's different, it's not something we play on every week, but I have played on similar grass. .  
  
  Q. Do you feel comfortable playing on this kind of golf course?   
 PAULA CREAMER: Very much. So I like tree-lined golf courses. You have to be very precise off the tee, especially with your irons.   
 I keep saying over and over, this golf course is all about the greens. There's just so many breaks. You have to be able to hit it in the right part where the flag is, not be above the hole, certain things like that.   
  
  Q. Do you have the chance to walk around in the city yet?   
 PAULA CREAMER: I haven't been able to. I will tomorrow, and today, I'm going to try and go look around the town and see.   
 The hardest part about being a professional athlete, is you go to all of these great places, but the time to go and see the town, it's very difficult. But I will try and make an effort to go see it.   
  
  Q. Your opinion about the newly-elected President in the United States, Obama?  
 PAULA CREAMER: I don't really talk about politics.   
  
  Q. For next year, you are expecting to come here to Morelos or Marias?   
 PAULA CREAMER: If it works out on the schedule, I would love to. Both of those golf courses are very different to this one. I've played both of them, and I really enjoy it, and we'll just see if it works out on the schedule.   
  
  Q. Apart from Lorena Ochoa, which other players do you think are going to be very suited to this course?  
 PAULA CREAMER: This is the best field that you can have.  
  
  Q. Someone who stands out who is suited for this course?  
 PAULA CREAMER: It's too hard to say one player, because every week, there's so many that play great. It's too difficult to just say one player.   
  
  Q. The No. 4, is it hard for you?   
 PAULA CREAMER: I hope not.   
  
  Q. For the members, this is the hardest hole on the course.   
 PAULA CREAMER: It's a difficult hole, yes, but I still think you can make a par and have a look at birdie.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Gracias.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT