BELL MICRO LPGA CLASSIC
September 10, 2008
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Paula, thanks for joining us today. You won here last year and three times this year so far. What are you feeling this week in Mobile?   
 PAULA CREAMER: I've played many, many rounds out on this golf course. Obviously coming off the win that I had last year here, defending my title, even though it's not same, it still feels like it.  
 I feel very prepared. I had a good two weeks off. I did some things that in the normal season if you didn't have two weeks I wouldn't have been able to do.   
 I'm glad to be back and see all the familiar faces and the fans and all the volunteers that have worked so hard for this event.  
  
  Q. I wasn't here last year, but I just heard about the way that you finished up your first round. Can you just talk about what that zone was like for you and how it just seemed to click?   
 PAULA CREAMER: Well, it was a year ago. You know, I was struggling at the beginning of the round and then kind of just pulled out seven birdies in a row and I finished strong. It helped me in certain situations later down the -- this year it's helped me.   
 But it is, once you see the ball go in the hole, the basket, it just gets bigger and bigger, and that's what happens.  
  
  Q. Is there something about this course that just sets up perfectly for you? It's a course that you really enjoy obviously.   
 PAULA CREAMER: You have to be -- you have to be a very good putter. You have to give yourself lots of chances. I think the biggest part of this golf course is just putting it in the right parts of the green.   
 I'm so the disappointed that they're going tear these greens up, because that's what makes a Robert Trent Jones Golf Course, and that's what makes this golf course what it is today.   
 But, you know, hopefully it'll come back stronger and stronger. I think that's why I play so well here, is you just have to be so -- I guess very, very precise on your yardages and where you put the ball.  
  
  Q. I think I know the answer to this question, but a player of your caliber, do you just expect to win every week or do you set a certain goal? Going into a tournament, what's your focus?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Of course, without a doubt it's to win. I don't think I could ever play an event where I didn't feel like I could win or I should win.   
 This golf course has really treated me well over the couple years. However, I've had to grind it out, too.   
 But for me, it's confidence. That's what it all is.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT