ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
July 28, 2017
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Solid round today.  What was the key?
PAULA CREAMER: I hit a lot more fairways today.  Actually I could have shot a lot lower.  Had some really good looks at birdie and kind of figured it out from yesterday, a couple good swing thoughts that I had on the driving range.  It's tough.  It's not easy and it's definitely different golf that we're not normally used to.  I've always loved playing over here, so it was nice to actually get out there and hit some good shot s and make some good putts.
Q. How tough were the conditions today?  Just looking at the numbers on the board, it seems to be playing much higher.
PAULA CREAMER: Yesterday morning was brutal.  It was cold and we had the rain and it was windy, but I feel like it's definitely fair, because yesterday afternoon it was sunny, and today for us, we had not many clouds out.  So I think weather-wise, it kind of balanced.  But it's not easy.
I mean, you miss some shot in the wrong place and you don't have much to work with.  But you know, it's just taking every shot as it is, and you just add them up at the end.  It's not like our normal golf in the States where you know where you stand at all times.  More here, it's just trying, survival of the fittest.
Q. Not the year you'd like so far; you have to play in the qualifier Monday unless you win.  What motivation do you have for that?
PAULA CREAMER: Obviously my goals in golf are so much more long term, and right now I've obviously struggled this year.  I keep saying I feel a lot closer than what it looks and I truly believe that.  I love what I'm doing.  I really believe in what we're working on with my swing.  It's just putting it out on the golf course under pressure.  Every athlete goes through, you know, slumps and they go through tough times.
Once I get through all this, I definitely know I'll be a stronger player and a stronger person, as well.
Q. What are some of those things that you're working on in the swing?
PAULA CREAMER: I've just been getting so across the line and flat.  Right now I've been really working on keeping the club in front of me, and just really retaining my angle.  In kind of these low shots, you have to do that, which is actually helping me, so that's good.
Just it's hard when you don't know where the golf ball going to go at times.  I played five weeks in a row and I took last week off; my little cousin got married, so I went and kind of got a way from golf a little bit.  But had two hard practice days with Gary that I think definitely helped mentally clear things in my head.  I just had too many thoughts, and it's very simple now for me.
Q. You were asked about motivation; does Solheim Cup come into it at all for you?
PAULA CREAMER: Well, I mean, obviously.  Solheim Cup is the biggest week that I want to be a part of.  But for me my goal is the Olympics, and I want to kind of -- golf has always been a marathon to me.  It's a sprint.  Of course I want to represent my country.  That's the greatest honor that you can get, and if I do get that chance, I know I will be able to hold my own and hopefully help my team.
We'll see how it plays out these next couple weeks.
Q. You said you found something on the range, is that left over from last week?
PAULA CREAMER: Actually a little different.  I got a little too wide with my stance.  Even though it's windy, I guess subconsciously, you feel like you have to get much wider out here, so you don't blow over.  Well, I was getting too wide and I couldn't turn.  I couldn't get into my right side, which means it's going to go kind of everywhere, and we really worked on that on the range feeling a little narrower and I was a little bit too open.
Those swing thoughts, definitely I was able to actually get in a better position.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT