CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2008
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Paula, thanks for coming in and joining us today. Great season so far: Three wins, and you're one of a couple multiple winners on tour this year. Talk about your season so far and then about playing this week.  
 PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, it has been. You know, I had a good starts and finished in top 10s all the time this year, which is something that I've looked at just consistence-wise.   
 I'm hitting the ball well and putting well. I like this golf course a lot. You have to hit it on every fairway. The rough out here is so punishing. The importance of hitting the greens is something that I like.   
 Having good irons, I think you really need that out here because of the rough. But I love coming to Canada. I've been here a couple times. This is my first time to Ottawa, but it's a really nice place and there are so many fans.   
 I think it's amazing how many people came out just on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday. I can't wait for the weekend.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Questions for Paula.   
  
  Q. I know you did a public appearance over at Golf Town. You mentioned the fans. What kind of a reception did you get over there?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Oh, my goodness, there were so many people. It was unbelievable. I signed for I think about an hour and 25 minutes. I signed just the whole time. It was great. There was so many fans. Lots of little girls and lots of little boys.   
 And that's great. I loved it. I really did. My hand got a little tired, but it was is really nice evening.   
  
  Q. I was just wondering, what do you think that Annika's retirement will do for the race for No. 1? I know Lorena is way in the front, but do you think that throws anything open just because she's still winning tournaments and she's going retire?  
 PAULA CREAMER: You know, every time I step on the golf course I'm out there with a purpose in mind of winning golf tournaments. You know, to me, I love playing against the best players in the world. Not having Annika there will be different. Just her presence at a tournament for how much she has done for women's golf brings so much excitement.   
 But she'll be missed and I'm sure she'll be back.   
  
  Q. I guess the sense that America is waiting for the next great women's champion. Is that something that you as aspire to?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Of course. I love representing my country. Any time I get to wear red, white, and blue it's probably the highlight of my golf career.  
 But I do, I try and do as much as I can for junior golfers. There are so many opportunities now to get little girls and boys involved with golf, and I try as much as I can to be that, I guess that next role model for them.   
 But it's a pretty big, you know, plate that you have in front of you when you have that. But I would love to do that for my country.   
  
  Q. I asked Lorena about this earlier. Just wondering if this feels like a major championship to you? And if so, in what regards?  
 PAULA CREAMER: It is. The golf course, the setup of it is, I feel, a major. The rough is just so thick. It's pretty long and soft. The greens, I wish -- hopefully we don't get too much rain so they can dry out a little bit.   
 But it is. The fans, it's a great venue. It's run really well. To come to an event where there are so many people and so many volunteers and the field, you know, you have everybody who is anybody is at this event. That's what you want. You want the best players at a tournament.   
  
  Q. It was mentioned earlier about the next great American champion. A lot of talk has been on the LPGA Tour about the international dominance that goes on. I'm wondering if you think that's perhaps a little over done? And No. 2, is that what kind of inspired you a few years ago at the Solheim Cup when you had the American flag painted on your face?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Like I said, I was representing my country. I think as an athlete, watching the Olympics, whenever you get to play for your country and represent them there's nothing better than that.   
 When you get to win, and being in your hometown for that, I think there's not enough words to express that. But there is definitely a huge international -- you know, every week we go that's there.   
 But I don't think that it has pushed me in any way. I'm incredibly competitive and there are so many goals I want to achieve, and I'm willing to do what it takes to get there. I know that there's a lot more their need to do mature-wise and just strength and just experience in general.   
 I'm willing to know that, and I know what that takes to be the No. 1 player in the world. It's just a matter of time.   
  
  Q. In the Pro-Am round, how much do you get out of a round that you play in that format?  
 PAULA CREAMER: I got to play my own ball today, so that was important to try to go out and shoot a score. The golf course, like I said, it's in great shape. The greens are very difficult. They're soft and you're able to fly it at the flags, but if you're in the wrong section of a green you'll have some difficult putts.   
 But it was, the Pro-Am, for me, I have a lot of fun. I get to meet three or four new guys and go out and have a good time.   
  
  Q. The state of the LPGA at this point in time seems to be relatively strong by comparison with the other tours. If there's one thing you could do to do kick it up a notch, what would it be?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Well, I would love to give more time. I try so hard to do things to promote the LPGA Tour and whatnot. But at the same time, my job is out on that golf course and I have to do it.  
 But I think just being able to see it on television more, you know, people are starting to recognize women's golf. The more that we're I think out in the public eye the more that people will be more involved with it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT