RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 29, 2008
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   COLIN CALLANDER: Paula, thank you for joining us. I believe you've been out on course this morning. How was it?   
 PAULA CREAMER: Yes, this is the first time I've been here. The golf course is a lot different than it was yesterday, that's for sure, with the rain overnight. It's amazing how a golf course can change so much. But I do, I like it a lot.   
 There's a lot of birdie holes but there's a lot of par holes and you have to kind of take advantage of the par 5s for sure here. I think those are the big part of the golf course and those are where you really need to make your opportunities and capitalise on those, and the par holes, like 7, 5, a couple of those that you just need to take your pars and kind of move on.   
 COLIN CALLANDER: Do you think it's a very different experience than St. Andrews last year?   
 PAULA CREAMER: Yes, definitely. This golf course, it's like playing in the States, but at the same time, there's so many different shots you can play from everywhere. Your creativity and your imagination has to really come out this week, and that's something that I felt pretty lucky having a coach playing that kind of golf, and so he's been teaching me different shots to play and practise before the tournament starts.   
 COLIN CALLANDER: You came in here with two wins on the LPGA Tour last weeks and a Top-10 last week, you must be relatively confident.   
 PAULA CREAMER: I have had a good start, and winning in the last three months and staying in contention, I think that's the biggest part I've been trying to do is just give myself opportunities. Obviously majors are a big part of what I focus my goals on, but the U.S. Open was a big week for me, and I think that playing in the last group on Sunday definitely helps just knowing what it feels like to be in that situation and nerves and whatnot.  
 And coming into this event, I feel very prepared and I feel very excited to be here and hopefully it will be a good Sunday.   
  
  Q. What would it mean to win a major?   
 PAULA CREAMER: Like I said, it's a huge goal for myself. There's no reason why I can't win a major. It's just a matter of timing. The only thing I can control is my own golf. If somebody gets really hot, there's nothing I can do about that, just try to stay there with them. It really would mean a lot to me. There's so much that I want to do in golf and majors are definitely a big part of that.   
  
  Q. The final round of the U.S. Open this year, how did you learn from that and how has that helped you moving forward?  
 PAULA CREAMER: The first three days of the U.S. Open were totally different than how I went on Sunday. I was very patient and was out there making pars and making some birdies here and there and I got off to the wrong start on Sunday and kind of reverted back to my old habits of getting anxious, trying to go for pins and on the back pin I was long and things like that.   
 I looked at it and had a week off where I went home and just focused on what went wrong on Sunday and how to make it better, and definitely just decisions, poor decisions in the heat of the moment.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 PAULA CREAMER: No, I mean, I love pink, I always have. I guess the harder questions are when I'm not wearing pink, people ask me, why are you not wearing pitch, but I always have something, it's always there, even my ribbon or my spikes, or my anklet is pink. I like it and I like the colour and I don't think there's anything wrong with me wearing pink. Ian Poulter wore pants on Sunday at British, and I thought it was pretty nice.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 PAULA CREAMER: You know, I went over to St. Andrews, and I think it was March, before the Open, to kind of get that wow factor out of the way so that when I went to the event I was ready and prepared to play, and that was a huge tournament for us to be able to go there and play that golf course. It was, it was a big feat for women's golf.   
 Like I said, I tried to go over a couple months early to get that out of the way so I could go and focus on winning a golf tournament.   
  
  Q. Have you thought about how important a win would be this week with Annika in the field, her last major?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Forgot about that. Definitely that would mean a lot. You know that she's going to go out here giving it her all, that's for sure. She's going to try to post as low scores as she can, but at the same time there's so many great players in this field and they are going to want to do that same thing and win with Annika in the field.   
 There's so many people out here that want to win, and I know Annika, she works so hard at the game and it works very hard to win my first major with Annika in the event.   
  
  Q. What do you think about the course, Sunningdale?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Yesterday was so different and so firm and so fast, and today it was much softer. The greens were receptive. They are just a little bit slower. You know, to me like I said, it's mind-boggling to me how fast it can change overnight. I hit driver, 6-iron into No. 2 yesterday and today I hit driver, 3-wood, and it's just things like that. To me knowing that you never know what you're going to get and any day you come out here the wind could switch.   
 It's a great golf course and you have to focus on your tee shots. Those are the main priorities, because if you keep it in the fairway, you can have short irons in the hole.   
  
  Q. Annika said she didn't know why Michelle Wie was playing with the men this week instead of qualifying --  
 PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, I'm not sure, I don't know why you would want to pass up playing in a major especially the British Open here at Sunningdale but she goes a different path and that's not the pathway that I've taken. We'll see what happens.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Well, Helen has had such a great year, and I'm so happy for her to have won that event last week. She's been really playing well, putting well, just it's great to see that.   
 And you know what, it's just drive and it's inner -- they fight to the end. Juli Inkster has always been my role model, because she grinds. I love people who will give it their all and fight for it, and definitely Helen did that and in a three-hole playoff -- with three holes, or two. It's awesome and that's what you want, it's what you want to win tournaments just by showing who wants it more.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 PAULA CREAMER: What do they do better? I mean, well, experience, I think that's one of the biggest things. You see a lot of golf and you've been in a lot of situations. There's so many different ways to get the job done at the end of the day, and I think the more that you can control your emotions and you know your tendencies that are going to come up emotionally and physically, I think that has a big advantage over things.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 PAULA CREAMER: A lot from 50, 65 yards, bumping it up with an 8-iron or a 9-iron and still trying to fly it. I forget, I think it's No. 11, that short par 4, you know, with that big mound in the middle of the green, if the pin is up front, you have no chance.   
 Just shots like that where you would never play in the States, different ones around the green and I remember chipping with 6-irons yesterday and trying to get to the ball as soon as you can, and obviously it changes when it rains but bumping and running it 65 yards, those are new ones for me but they work.  
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 PAULA CREAMER: I think it's great that you can sand there and hit a 58-degree wedge or you can stand there with a 7-iron or ultimately have a decision of what gets closer, and I like that. I think that's what brings the best players to the top of the leaderboard is the creativity and imagination, and the biggest thing is trust. Everybody can say you can bump a 7-iron up to the green, but to do it is another thing.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Great, he won with Se Ri here, and he knows what it takes to win. He's been around here many, many times and grew up here, ten minutes from here, and it's huge. He tells me a lot, where to be aggressive, where not to be aggressive, and I've really taken a lot of advice from him.   
  
  Q. What's his name?   
 PAULA CREAMER: Colin Cann.   
  
  Q. Do you know what town he's from?   
 PAULA CREAMER: Is there like, a Surrey? I'll ask him, I'm sorry. I met his parents for the first time, though, so that was nice.   
 COLIN CALLANDER: Paula, thank you and good luck this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT