U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2008
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







FULL AUDIO INTERVIEW

  
Q. You talked about handling the pressure in the  
tournament. Do you still take that approach today or is it  
starting to hit you a little bit?
 PAULA CREAMER: Yes, and no. At times, especially when I make a bogey or a careless mistake, and/or I don't capitalize on something. But I've been really calm the last three days, I'm trying to take momentum when it happens out there to keep it going.
  
I'm just really having a lot of fun. I'm enjoying it and I'm  
trying not to put too much pressure on myself. But I feel  
good. I feel very confident. 
 
  
Q. What about being in this position on a Sunday, being right  
there? 
 PAULA CREAMER: Well, this is what I've always said, as long as I put myself in position on Sunday that's all you can do. And I'll go out tomorrow and just enjoy myself, play good golf, and stick with the game plan that I've had. And I'll be in, I think, one of the last two groups or something, so that's great. I'm excited about that and hopefully I can hit some good golf shots and play good early on.
 
  
Q. (Inaudible.)
 PAULA CREAMER: Without a doubt. You want to be in the last couple of groups on Saturday with momentum and good shots. And especially Helen, she played really well all day long. A couple of shots here and there. Same with me.
  
And it was kind of a battle with each other, which is what we  
wanted. And J.J. was always right in there and she kind of  
struggled with her putting today, but she was constantly hitting  
greens. 
 
  
Q. Helen said it was a very relaxed atmosphere in the  
group. Can you talk about that?
 PAULA CREAMER: It is. It's very relaxed. You come out here, fans are so supportive. It's great. The golf course is perfect. It's just you go -- the only thing you have to worry about is the weather, I guess. And other than that it's just exciting, it's a U.S. Open and it's, people are playing well and the golf course is set up really well.
 
  
Q. (Inaudible.)
 PAULA CREAMER: I'm obviously very excited. I love where I'm at, where I'm sitting. And I guess we'll see. Ask me tomorrow how I feel.
 I  
think it will be all right though. 
 
  
Q. On 12 you missed the putt and you were having along  
discussion with your caddie. Did the competitive juices come out  
there?
 PAULA CREAMER: Yes, I think it was venting a little bit. I was a little upset with the decisions that we made, but he looked at me and he said, "Paula, look where you're at, come on, stay focused with your game plan." And I was like, okay, I'm all right. And that's the advantage of having Colin on my bag. I had him ever since I turned pro and he's won U.S. Opens and Majors before and he knows what it's like to get too far ahead of yourself. 
 End of FastScripts 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT