U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2008
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. On 18 you got to like where you are?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, of course. And I played well. Couple unlucky breaks out there with my bogeys where I had just like against collars and really couldn't do too much to get up-and-down. And then a 3-putt.   
 But other than that I gave myself a lot of opportunities, I was above the hole probably too many times, especially with wedges in my hand. But the golf course played totally different than it did yesterday. A lot of tees moved up. But we'll see how it is tomorrow.   
  
  Q. You used a lot of drivers.   
 PAULA CREAMER: Well, on certain holes. I'm not longest one, but I'm pretty straight with my driver. So when I can, I'll hit it. And I'll take the advantage of that.   
 But there's a lot of holes where you just got to hit it in the flat spot and have an 8 or 9-iron in.   
  
  Q. Did it play harder or easier today?  
 PAULA CREAMER: It's difficult to say because I shot 1-under today when I shot 3 yesterday. It played a little harder, I think it was kind of a little rainy at times, but it's just -- I think the pin placements were a little bit more difficult. A lot of big breakers. That kind of thing.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 PAULA CREAMER: Oh, 17 surprised me. 12, the par-5. 17 was a good hole though. You have to really think about where you're going to hit it. In between those bunkers there.   
 12 was a little weird.   
 This one was a little strange, but it's what it's going to be like.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 PAULA CREAMER: No, never on 17. It was never there. And 12 all the way at the front of the box it wasn't over there. And I didn't even know they were going to use that box, so.   
  
  Q. They were trying to make sure everybody went for it here, do you think?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, but you still got to hit it in that little gap and that bunker on the right's more reachable from down there than it is from up here, so.   
  
  Q. Annika was saying you played 17 nice and conservatively, which is what you have to do.   
 PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, that's, they're a little longer, they carry the ball a little further than me so I would, I could carry that left bunker, but just to me it wasn't worth it. And it's a tough pin, front left. You take your par and you get out of there. And I'll take four fours right now on that hole until the end of the tournament.   
  
  Q. How much pressure are you putting on yourself? I know we keep asking you about Majors. Do you think about that at all?  
 PAULA CREAMER: I'm really just going out and trying to play my own game. I'm having a lot of fun. It was a great pairing the last two days. With Annika and Suzann and I think that that's always been the problem is that the pressure and the amount of emphasis I've put on a Major. I'm just trying to go out and do my thing.   
  
  Q. This hole hasn't been terrible kind to you, you would probably rather be 1-under than 1-over?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, it's very disappointing to say I'm 1-over on 18 when it's a reachable par-5. But we'll see what happens the next two days. And I'm going to go about the same game plan that I have been. And it's just unfortunate, yesterday I had a poor wedge and a 6-footer today that I missed.   
  
  Q. How tough is it knowing that it's Annika's last Open? Did you think about that at all?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Without a doubt. Yeah, you're walking out there and you hear everybody saying, thanks for the memories, thank you for what you've done and it's true. She's definitely has raised the bar for women's golf and she has put such a big impact on where we're at today.   
  
  Q. 27 teenagers in this event, how tough would it be for a teenager to win a U.S. Open?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Well, I think that at the end of the day it's just a number. You have to be mature, you have to be able to handle a lot of situations out here. It's a Major, but stranger things have happened.   
  
  Q. How much do your Junior golf, all the Junior golf you played help you win early?  
 PAULA CREAMER: Oh, well I think being able to win on every level and every kind of situation is all about confidence and knowing that you've done it before and definitely it's helped a lot. Knowing that you can win in match play or stroke play, come from behind, go out with the lead, that kind of thing. And that's just all experience.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT