SEMGROUP CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JOHN Q. HAMMONS
May 2, 2008
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Another bogeyed end but you are still right at the top of the leader board. Really tough conditions out there again today. You got to still be happy with how you played.
 PAULA CREAMER: I am. I'm pleased with how I played today. I didn't feel like I hit the ball as solid as I did yesterday. You know, I kind of hit some 4-iron shots and some loose drives out there, but I'm going to try to hit a couple balls on the range. This is so difficult, practicing afterwards because of the wind on the range. 
 But, you know, I made some good shots once again. I made some really good bunker shots out there. But overall we still have 36 holes left which is a lot of golf and hopefully the wind stays the way it is. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Questions.

 Q. Speaking of the wind, it's suppose to blow less than 10 miles an hour this weekend which is pretty rare around here. Does that change your plan of attack or would you probably have it out?
 PAULA CREAMER: I'd rather have it keep blowing. I thought tomorrow it was suppose to be pretty windy and cold. But, no, I would, I would prefer that. 
 You know, the harder it is, the better I play, the more confidence I have out there. But, at the same time, if it stops blowing, we're just going to have to make more birdies.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 PAULA CREAMER: Because she wants to go out and make as many birdies as she can of course. I like it when it's blowing a lot harder. 
 But, you know, there's-- like I said, there's a lot of golf left. Hopefully, you know, you can go out tomorrow and you'll start on the good score out there. You have to post a number. That's all you have to do is you just have to go out and play your own game and patience. 
 You know she's going to try to make a run for it, but, you know, she's got a lot of ground to cover, and you have a lot of golf left.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 PAULA CREAMER: Right. Definitely.

 Q. Can you talk about that hole and starting with, I guess, decision on the chip. Was that your best option?
 PAULA CREAMER: Probably not looking back at it. I definitely should have bumped it into the hill with the line that I had. It's where all the rain was; it was in the little holes and I probably should have bumped it. But I hit the middle of the ball or played it more like I guess a bunker shot. That was just the wrong club. You know, the wrong club, bad Chip. 
 You know, kind of that little section there I really didn't have any good vibes going. A lot of wrong clubs and poor decision making. After that we kind of got back on a roll again.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 PAULA CREAMER: I was already upset with being long just adding to everything. But I knew you had the get up and down. I'm not going to walk out of there 35 yards around the green with a double. There's no reason why you should have that. Once again you have to grind. I mean those are the bigger putts than the birdies out here. 
 But then again when you get those chances for birdies you have to be able to capitalize on them because there aren't that many.

 Q. Second day in a row you finished in a bogey yet you are still in contention. Yet you are still near the top of leader board.
 PAULA CREAMER: Yeah. Like I said, I played well. You know, too bad bogeys, one bad bunker shot on 18. 
 You know, I made some good putts early on. It's kind of just where they fall in your round. And, unfortunately, the last two days mine have fallen on, you know, the last two out of three holes. 
 And, you know, that's a shame. But, you know, you can't do anything about it now. I wish I could. But I still feel good about how I played.

 Q. Two very windy days but two winds from different directions. The course played a lot different today. Did your thinking have to change?
 PAULA CREAMER: Definitely. A totally different direction. Shots on the Par 3's were complete opposite. Not complete opposite but like, what's that hole, 13; you know, here we are having left to right now. Yesterday it was blowing mild right to left. And that's just, you know, it's kind of fun, you know, to have it switched about. You have to go and think different tee shots. 
 You know, I hit more drivers today than I did yesterday. But I think it's going to be the different tomorrow too. I heard the wind. So we'll see. We'll go out for another battle. 
 Not as strong that's right. So that means 17. Yeah. Great.

 Q. What was the best shot you hit today?
 PAULA CREAMER: Goodness. Um, I'd say bunker shot on 11. The bunker shot on 10 was pretty good too. I hit out of that one. It was okay. I didn't know if I could clear the lift but I tried to hit it high. It was a little right but I had to hit it good. 
 Um, I'd probably say the one on 11. That was a good bunker shot. Five-iron. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: All right. Thanks for coming out. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT