SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
June 3, 2017
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Another solid round out there.  What was the key?  
PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, I've only had one bogey in the last two days.  It's defensively positive.  I've missed just three greens today.  I've given myself a lot of opportunities and I like playing a little tougher conditions.   
Today was definitely different wind than yesterday.  There were some good pins out there that we had to kind of think about a bit.  I played solid.  I hit some good putts that didn't go in and made some good putts that went in.   
 Q.  Describe 18.  How far into the fescue were you?  
PAULA CREAMER: I actually was just below the fescue.  It was kind of in it but kind of out of it.  But it was a hole.  It wasn't like it was in rough.  It was actually like kind of in a dead area.  So it would be tough to even just rip through it and try to get it up that fast.  I had no idea how it would react.   
So I knew at the worst I was going to make bogey taking a one-shot penalty.  I hit a great pitch and an even better shot to save par.  It's nice.  That will make dinner taste a little bit better tonight.   
 Q.  How big was that?  You're tied for the lead as opposed to...  
PAULA CREAMER: I haven't looked at a leaderboard all day long.  I knew that I needed to make a putt.  You know, it's always nice to end, like I said, with a good putt.  That one was even a better one.  It was a dodgy pin placement right there.  It was a pretty big left to right.   
Yeah, it was a smart play and ended up getting up and down.   
 Q.  Any one particular spot where you kind of held your round together today?  
PAULA CREAMER: Um, you know, I just played pretty solid.  I had some really good looks on 1, 2, 3, 4, 5; I had all within ten, eleven feet and didn't make any of those.  I think it was just staying steady and giving myself an opportunity.   
Made birdie on 6, so that kind of made me feel a little bit better about those other ones.   
There really wasn't any big up and down moments for me.  It was a good bounceback from bogey on 7, birdie on 8.  So that was good.  That was positive.   
 Q.  What's it like to be in contention again?  
PAULA CREAMER: I mean, it feels good.  It's been a while, that's for sure.  My team, we've just been working so hard.  Gary and everybody, Gary Gilchrist Golf Academy, guys working with me left and right.   
I feel good.  I feel prepared.  I knew there was a time I was going to kind of breakthrough.  It just shows these last two days have been good golf.   
We'll continue.  Whatever happens tomorrow happens, but I feel like my golf game is in a good place.   
 Q.  How have you remained positive and patient?  
PAULA CREAMER: It's hard.  I've had some pretty bad sad moments.  I love this game.  I love working hard.  I love everything about it.  I still have such a drive and a passion for getting back to where I want to be.   
Like I said, the team around me is awesome and they know my goals.  I think that's really important, everybody understands what you want.  I want to be in contention every week.   
 Q.  Did you sense coming into the week that a breakthrough was close?  
PAULA CREAMER: Oh, yeah.  I actually played really well last week.  I know I missed the cut by one, and on Friday I was just distraught really.  I took a couple weeks off, had an injury, and got back to where I wanted to be.   
You know, going into this week, you know, I've missed a cut a won right after, and my dad reminded me of that.   
Like I said, I felt really prepared, and it just showed these last couple days.  We need one more day.   
 Q.  Been 13 years since you almost won this as an amateur.  How satisfying would it be...  
PAULA CREAMER: I mean, this place has been so nice to me giving me a sponsor's exemption when I was 17.  It would be awesome to hold the trophy tomorrow.  Just all the fans as well.   
But for me, it's just staying steady to my game plan, and if I do that and I play well -- I can't control anybody else -- but hopefully I'll be there on 18.   
 Q.  What was the injury?  
PAULA CREAMER: My wrist.   
 Q.  Right?  
PAULA CREAMER: Left.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT