HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 28, 2008
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN:  Paula, thanks for coming in.  You certainly put yourself in the hunt today.  Just talk about your round.   
 PAULA CREAMER:  You know, I hit a lot of good shots out there today, made a lot of really good putts.  I missed a lot of putts, as well, but the ones that I holed were fairly big breakers, a couple 15-, 20-footers.  I played good.  I tried to stay as patient as I could because this golf course can kind of -- if you get a little too aggressive, with these greens it gets a little difficult.   
  
  Q.  How important is it to post a good round right after the victory last week and maintain the run?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  I feel good.  I birdied the 1st hole and I birdied the 3rd hole so it was kind of off to a good start, and I just kind of tried to stay with that.   
 But I have a lot of confidence.  I feel good over the golf ball, and I'm putting very well, which is also important, and with confidence on these greens because you have to hole a lot of big breaking putts.  There's not many straight putts that you have out there.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel your experience in Singapore helped you today?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  Yes, without a doubt.  This golf course, like I said, it's pretty straightforward from tee to green, but once you get on the surface you have to know -- I've putted a lot on these greens.  But it did; I think coming to Lexus Cup definitely helped.  Whenever you can play on the golf course in competition, that always is a bonus.   
  
  Q.  A week ago you were worried just about whether you would survive the flight here, but your game has survived, as well.  You're in really hot form at the moment, aren't you?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  Yeah, like I said earlier, I feel good and I'm ready to play.  I want to go back-to-back.  That's the first thing.  There's three more days left but you have to keep yourself in position each day.  That's very important.  I feel good with the way I played.   
  
  Q.  Is all the attention now on Lorena and Annika helping your game so far do you think?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  I'm kind of under the radar.  I'm out there, and they played in front of me and they had a lot of people out there, which was nice to see.  But it was kind of nice, we were just cruising along with our group and playing kind of freely.   
 But of course, you know, I want to be in the mix of that.  But it's really early in the tournament, but I feel really confident with where I am, and tomorrow I think I'm in the last group.  So I'll get to play with Lorena, so it'll be good.   
  
  Q.  During the day you mentioned you saw Ochoa and Ai along the way.  You're tied with Ai and one back from Lorena.  How do you feel?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  How do I feel playing --   
  
  Q.  You mentioned seeing them on the course today while you were playing, Ai Miyazato and Lorena?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  I couldn't see them play.  How could I have?  I was behind them.   
  
  Q.  How does it feel to be in the position you're in now, one off Lorena?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  I feel very good with where I am at.  You know, I just am kind of taking it day by day and trying to stay patient, and I'm looking forward to tomorrow and Sunday.   
  
  Q.  Is the course playing harder than the last time you were here?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  The wind was completely different today than it was in the practise rounds.  Some of the holes -- normally 16 is down, today it was into the wind.  1 is normally into the wind, and 9 into the wind, as well.  It should have been down.   
 So it was a different type of golf course today than it has been in the past.   
  
  Q.  Are you the type of player that actually wants to see what your competitors are doing, or are you just focused on your game?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  It's way too early.  I'll look probably with seven holes to go on Sunday.  Obviously I'm going to know where I'm at down the stretch and after each day.  But while I'm on the course I don't look at leaderboards.  I used to, and I'm trying to stay focused and stay in my own world out there because that's the only thing that I can control.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Paula, thanks a lot.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT