FIELDS OPEN IN HAWAII
February 22, 2008
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   (Press conference in progress.) 
 PAULA CREAMER:  Driver, and then we had 95 yards and I kind of chunked my 54-degree wedge.  And I missed about a five and a half-footer for par. 
 Birdie on 5.  Driver, and I laid up with a 3 rescue to about 90 yards, and I hit my 54-degree wedge to about 15 feet. 
 Birdie on 8.  About 150, 7-iron to about 15 feet. 
 Birdie on 10.  Driver, about 150.  I hit 7-iron to about 15, 18 feet. 
 Birdie on 13.  Driver, 3-wood into the bunker under the green I don't know how far.  I had about 210, I think.  Then I made about -- didn't hit a very good bunker shot.  Made about a 12-footer. 
 Birdie on 1.  Driver, 3-wood to kind of the front of the green left.  Chipped it for like a foot. 
 DAN GROSS-RHODE:  Okay.  A very solid round.  10 under par, you're only two strokes out of the lead.  You gained on the leaders today.  Looking forward to tomorrow as well? 
 PAULA CREAMER:  Yeah, I am.  I'm looking forward to play in one of lead groups, which is nice to get back into.  But I started off kind of shaky.  I just never really hit many good shots the first couple of holes, and kind of found my ground after the birdie on 5. 
 Then I kind of settled down into the round.  But it was, it was a good day.  Had a lot of looks at birdie and made a lot of good putts.  Missed some putts here and there, but really looking forward to tomorrow. 
 DAN GROSS-RHODE:  Questions. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 PAULA CREAMER:  I wanted to get to about 11 or 12, I thought.  There was one point where I said 10, 11 is good, and then the last couple holes finishing I want to get it closer to her. 
 But it was.  I mean, it's hard going out when you're at 6-under and she's at 12 and you were only two back and now you're six and you haven't even tee'd it up. 
 I think that's kind of the hardest part about playing today was just staying patient and knowing that birdies will come and not try to force things too much. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 PAULA CREAMER:  No, I kind of had a relapse this morning.  I don't know what happened.  Here I am getting all better, and now I'm taking a little turn.  Today was really hot out there.  I think that kind of -- yeah, it was -- I woke up and I really wasn't feeling good.  It kind of set the tone for the day of how I felt, unfortunately. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 PAULA CREAMER:  I know.  My parents always say, yeah, you're sick.  Good.  No, you know, I'm just trying to go out there -- you know, I know I've been practicing hard.  I think the biggest thing that I feel is I get a little tired easier.  So I'm really trying to stay hydrated.  That's the biggest thing for me. 
 I probably ate food out there eight or nine times just trying to constantly keep things coming in and keep my energy levels up. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 PAULA CREAMER:  Maybe.  I mean, I'm out there and I feel I'm focusing a lot.  I feel a lot better than I did at Turtle Bay.  There I was just kind of ill.  Now I can feel my body is kind of fatigued.  I haven't been able to workout or anything like that. 
 But I do.  I think mentally just going out there, and I'm having a lot fun with my caddie.  Colin and I are enjoying it.  I think that maybe the medicine is doing that to me, who knows. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 PAULA CREAMER:  Yeah, I'm going to have to make a lot of birdies tomorrow for sure.  Especially with the back 9.  You're going to have to go out there and go low and make as much as you can. 
 But at the same time you can't force it.  The more you force things the more -- not as much changes will come about.  The biggest is thing is just to go out and play my own game. 
 If somebody gets hot at the beginning, just remember I have a lot of back 9 too.  A lot holes on the back 9. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 PAULA CREAMER:  Yeah.  I mean, I'm playing good.  My confidence is there.  I'm putting good.  You know, we'll see what happens tomorrow.  I feel good and ready to go out and ready to win a tournament, that's for sure. 
 The biggest thing is just to stay confident and know that I've been practicing hard.  Kind of like today was a great day for me, because I started off hitting the ball terribly. 
 You know, I finished strong, so something to keep in the memory banks. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 PAULA CREAMER:  I'll probably just do a little bit of practice and eat something.  I've been going to bed at 8:15 every night, which is very early.  I feel very old doing that, but your body needs it. 
 You know, I'm just trying to get ready for that flight to Singapore.  That's the biggest thing for me.  That's all I've been thinking about. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 PAULA CREAMER:  No, I think I'll be fine.  I'm taking a lot vitamin C and things like that.  I think I just need to maybe rest for a couple days.  I guess the flight, the plane will be good. 
 But I hope I feel better on that airplane.  I don't want my head to blow up on that plane.  Yeah, winning would make that flight a lot easier.  Yes. 
 DAN GROSS-RHODE:  All right.  Thanks for coming in. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT