FIELDS OPEN IN HAWAII
February 21, 2008
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Thank you for coming in, Paula.  Great round.  You really lit up the front 9 on the course, your back 9.  Talk about what was working for you out there. 
 PAULA CREAMER:  Just my confidence with my putting.  I hit the ball really well last week at Turtle Bay, and I hit it decent today.  I had some close shots.  But, you know, the biggest thing for me was just my confidence in my putting.  Being able to hole the 8-, 9-footers constantly gives me confidence. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Go over those 9-footers. 
 PAULA CREAMER:  You want me to start on my back, or No. 10? 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Yeah. 
 PAULA CREAMER:  Okay, so birdie on 11, driver.  I had about 85 yards, 54-degree wedge to about nine feet. 
 Bogey on 12.  About 170, 5-iron, right bunker, and I missed about a 6-footer; bogey. 
 Birdie on 14.  Driver, 3-wood, and then I had about 45 yards and I hit it to about, I would say ten feet past the hole. 
 Birdie on 2.  I didn't hit a very good drive.  I had about 175 yards total.  I hit a 5-iron to about eight feet, nine feet. 
 Birdie on 3.  Driver, 150 yards.  I hit a little 6, but I had about probably about 35-footer up the hill. 
 Birdie on 7.  Driver, 150 yards.  I hit a little 8 to about 6 feet. 
 Birdie on 8.  148, hit 7-iron to about ten feet. 
 Birdie on 9.  Driver, I had 160.  I hit a 6-iron to about 6 feet. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Okay, great. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
PAULA CREAMER:  Yes, I was sick Friday night, and I'm starting to feel better the last two days.  I had all the symptoms of a flu, but no vomiting or anything like that. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 PAULA CREAMER:  Without a doubt.  I mean, I couldn't move.  I mean, it was pretty bad, and I just started to get -- probably I would say Tuesday starting to feel better.  But Saturday, Sunday, Monday it was pretty rough. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 PAULA CREAMER:  Yeah, I mean, I don't know.  I just kind of went out there.  I guess my mind wasn't really thinking about golf.  It was more thinking about how much more holes left, that kind of thing. 
 No, I hit the ball so good on Saturday.  I kind of tried to take that momentum into this week because I didn't really get to do much earlier on in the week.  Just tried to take that confidence with my irons. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 PAULA CREAMER:  At Turtle Bay?  Without a doubt.  When I got to 6 I thought I would have to get it to about 9.  I mean, 10 won, but I felt then that was in my goal, my pathway, but I think I thought about it too much and I had back-to-back 3-putts.  That's not really a normal thing that I do.  Got a little too aggressive. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 PAULA CREAMER:  Like I said, the biggest thing for me is taking, you know, what I've been doing in the off-season to the golf course.  Really working on my golf swing and trying to repeat that in competition.  That's the hardest thing to do. 
 Kind of Saturday was a great day to do that because I really wasn't in contention.  It was a no-win situation, that type of thing. 
 Just go out and do your thing.  And I am.  I'm pleased with it.  I'm working on a lot things.  But I do, I feel good.  I feel good for this week and going into Singapore as well. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 PAULA CREAMER:  You know, it was windy at the beginning of the round, and then kind of died down and got windy again near the end.  It was weird.  The wind totally switched out there at one point. 
 But it was good.  The greens are getting a little firmer and a little faster, which is nice.  The fairways are still pretty long.  You can kind of can get some weird shots off your club face from the fairways. 
 No, it's playing good.  Good pin placements out there. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 PAULA CREAMER:  You know, Mimoko hit a lot of really good shots today.  She kind of struggled a little bit putting at first, but she made a couple birdies down the stretch, and I think tomorrow she'll do the same. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
PAULA CREAMER:  Green.  I don't know.  I like the color.  You know, it was my -- I didn't have any more other choices out there to wear today, so I liked the green. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 PAULA CREAMER:  No, just more confidence in what I'm doing over the ball.  I'm trusting my line, that kind of thing.  I practiced a lot of putting.  You know, didn't take a lot of -- a whole lot of energy putting, so I did that and I worked on my stroke. 
 Just the main thing is the mindset of knowing you're going to make it or not.  It was more mentally just trying to overcome everything.  It was good. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Thank you all.  Good luck tomorrow. 
 PAULA CREAMER:  Thanks. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT