ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 18, 2007
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PAULA CREAMER:  It went into the wind, right to left, and everything right of that hole is all shaven down, so it's difficult.  I hit a great shot.  That hole has always kind of been my nemesis, and to have a birdie today was very good.   
  
  Q.  It is difficult to make up ground on the back nine, isn't it?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  It is, it's hard.  I said yesterday, all you have to do is get off to a good start, and that's what she did.  Lorena, she played awesome the front nine and she kind it put it on cruise control.  I don't know what's happening right now, but from the looks of it, you just had to go out, shoot even par on the back nine if you had a good start.   
  
  Q.  Did you try and do an aggressive line on 18?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  No, I just hit it a little right and didn't hit it as good as I wanted.  It's unfortunate because if that didn't happen, I would have had a birdie and I'd be sitting here 2-under.  It was a good bogey, and it's unfortunate, and what are you going to do.   
  
  Q.  Some people say a million dollars creeps into your mind and some people say it doesn't.  How was it for you?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  You know, you're out there and you're really just focusing on what you have to get done.  It's hard, you see the scores and people are going over par.  I mean, they're just forcing things too much, just not letting their games happen.   
  
  Q.  Did you check the scoreboard coming up the fairway?  I realize you had already hit it in the water, but then when you saw Lorena had doubled --   
 PAULA CREAMER:  I didn't know she did until I reached the green, just the prompter thing was like four holes behind.   
  
  Q.  I'm just curious, when you did see it, did your heart sink just a little bit more?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  Oh, definitely, without a doubt, of course.  Yes, very much.  That was very unfortunate.  I mean, who knows if I would have known that, but at the same time, it is what it is.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT