ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 17, 2007
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  No worries today, were there?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  No, I played good.  I played solid.  You know, made some really good putts.  I hit it pretty good.  You know, I'll do the same thing that I've been doing every day, go hit some balls, do some chipping and putting and we'll see what happens tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  What about tomorrow?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  It's all or nothing, you know?  I mean, you just go out and you have to play good today, kind of wanted to play like it would have been tomorrow, just go out -- it's kind of like a practice round for tomorrow, really.  Lots of positives to take from it.  I played good, and just try and keep the momentum going.   
  
  Q.  When do you start feeling the pressure?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  I mean, there's pressure the whole day.  It's not over until it's over, and you watch the leaderboard, everybody plays really good in the middle, and then those last couple of holes you never know what's going to happen.  It's good that I like those finishing holes, but at the same time you have to get through them and make some pars and hopefully start off strong in the beginning.   
  
  Q.  Course set up relatively easy today?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  Yes and no.  When it was windy it was playing a little difficult, but the wind died so you could kind of fire at flags.  Tomorrow's pins are going to be a lot harder, I'm sure, and you're going to have to take that and you'll be aggressive when you have to and be more conservative when you need to be.   
  
  Q.  So you knock in a wedge shot for eagle on a par-5, is any part of you thinking you need to save this for tomorrow?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  I said that jokingly to my caddie and to Sophie, we'll save this for tomorrow.  I haven't been hitting my wedges very good, so confidence-wise it was very good.   
  
  Q.  Have you decided when you were going to try to go for tomorrow?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  It doesn't matter.  It is what it is.  I guess it's nice to go later on.  You know what you have to shoot then.  Everybody is right within a couple holes of each other, so I don't think it makes a big difference.   
  
  Q.  If you had the first choice and you had to make your decision, it would be --   
 PAULA CREAMER:  Somewhere in the middle maybe.  You can watch what's going on in front of you but at the same time watch what's going on behind you.   
  
  Q.  Would you go over your eagle?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  I hit a driver and laid up to 85 yards, and I hit a little 54-degree, and it went in.   
  
  Q.  Will that be strange tomorrow with picking your spot and your tee time?  Normally the leaders are in the last group.  Would it be weird coming in not being in the last group?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  Yes and no.  You play tournaments a lot, too, when you're not leading in the last group, and you have to wait for the leaders to finish.  I guess it is what it is.  The tee time isn't what matters out there I don't feel.  The round of golf is; go out and play your own game and you're in your own mindset, then nothing else can bother you.   
  
  Q.  What's the biggest concern, what tee time you pick or who plays with you?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  It doesn't matter, really.  It just is what it is.  You can't control it, and hopefully whoever I play with, it'll be a good day.   
  
  Q.  Do you go flat out on the gas from hole one tomorrow and go flag hunting all the way, or do you just sort of wait and see how it's playing out and pick your spots and maybe kind of counter-punch?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  Well, it depends on the wind, it depends on pin placement.  There's so many factors that are involved.  However, like I said, when I see a shot I'm going to take it, and if I don't see it I'll just play a different route.  It's important to get off to a good start and not shoot yourself in the foot too early because it is only 18 holes.   
  
  Q.  At what point did you think you were home-free today?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  17 I thought.  Lots can happen on those last couple holes.  I made eagle, I was feeling pretty good there, then made bogey on the next hole, missed a little putt.  After that I was feeling pretty confident.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT