ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 15, 2007
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Obviously when there's mild conditions on this course you have to take advantage, and you did that.   
 PAULA CREAMER:  Yeah, I played good today.  I went out and was 3-under through four holes, so it was a very nice start.  Just tried to play consistent out there and hit a lot of greens.  If you hit fairways and greens, you're going to have a look at some birdies out there.   
  
  Q.  With as much as this course can change in a day, how important was it to get a start like that?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  It's incredibly important.  You go out, you have a par-5 the third hole out, so you want to try and take advantage of that, and you can kind of go on a little roll from there.   
 But this golf course, when it's windy it plays totally different, so it's nice to have 4-under after the first day.   
  
  Q.  How do you feel about the format?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  The format, it's nothing like anything that we have, so it's nice to be able to have a little change.  It's hard, you're really not in control of a whole lot out there.  You don't have four days to make up a bad round; you just have two days, then one day, then one day.  It's just about going out and playing your own game.   
  
  Q.  The idea of you can't win a tournament the first day, you can only lose it, is that never more true than here?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  Oh, without a doubt.  That's very true here.  If you shoot yourself in the foot, you're going to struggle going into tomorrow.  You're going to have to go low, and it's one of those days out here that you could have gone low, but at the same time, a round of 1-, 2-under was a good score.   
  
  Q.  What does this all mean today, the score, everything?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  It's good.  I probably had the worst warmup I've ever had in my life this morning, so I'm --   
  
  Q.  What about last year?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  But this one was a little longer and more balls hit.  I mean, on the driving range I was hoping to shoot even par.  I'm very pleased with how I played, but it just proved a lot to me that once the gun goes off that I can pull it together and go out and play.   
  
  Q.  What were you doing on the range?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  I wasn't making contact.  I was struggling.   
  
  Q.  When did you sort it out?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  I really didn't sort it out.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT