LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 12, 2017
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (Regarding rain delay. )  
PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, it was pouring there for a little while, and then we had -- I don't know how long the official time was, was it like 45 minutes?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, I mean, I'm 30.  I'm getting old out here.  I was like, Oh, gosh.  I got to warmup a bit.   
Went out with a good 2-putt, and then birdied the par-5 right afterwards.  You know, I played solid.  I putted really well.  I switched back to conventional-style putting.  I've been left-hand-low for the last three years.   
This is my first week back doing that and using my line, and seems to be doing pretty good so far.   
 Q.  You started that right after ANA?  
PAULA CREAMER: Yeah.  I hit the ball really well at ANA and Kia and I just couldn't make any putts.  We talked about how many times I won conventional and how many times have I won left-hand-low, and the difference was astronomical.   
 Q.  Really?  What was the difference?  
PAULA CREAMER: Well, I mean, I think I've won 11 times conventional, one time left-hand-low.   
 Q.  Really?  
PAULA CREAMER: It was one of those things where you obviously have to get in a tournament and be able to do it under pressure.   
I've been playing solid, so...   
 Q.  Conditions today a little bit different from what you normally experience at Ko Olina?  
PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, the golf course is playing totally different.  It's playing much longer.  In the past we've been getting tons of roll-off with tee shots.  I mean, who would've thought we would play the ball lift, clean, and place, and it was the right decision, especially with that downpour today.   
So good job by the rules officials for doing that.  The now course superintendant, I heard they have a new guy, and, I mean, the golf course is in great shape.  Kudos to them for that.   
 Q.  How big was it to get the birdie tap on 17?  
PAULA CREAMER: Oh, huge.  I mean, 18 is not the easiest hole, especially now with the rough on the right side.  But it's playing much longer.  I mean, we used to be hitting hybrids off the tee because it's straight downwind.  Now we're hitting driver, 7-irons into it.   
I made a good 2-putt there and just really pleased with how everything went today.  Keep it going into tomorrow and the weekend.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT