CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2007
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Thank you for coming in.  I know you're cold, I know you're sniffling, but to go five birdies and no bogeys on the day and be tied for second, that's pretty impressive. 
 PAULA CREAMER:  I played good.  I think I missed two greens today.  Other than that I played pretty solid.  You know, I made a lot of good putts.  I missed a ton of opportunities out there, but considering the conditions, I'll take 5-under. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Can we go through your card? 
 PAULA CREAMER:  No. 4, birdie, I hit a little 5-iron about 170 yards, and I made about a 35-footer. 
 Birdie on 6, I had 90 yards, and I hit a 54-degree wedge to about three feet. 
 No. 11, I hit a 4 rescue, had about 190, and I hit it to about 20 feet, 15 feet. 
 And then birdie on 14, par 5, I didn't hit a very good drive, and then I laid up to about 115 yards, then I hit a 9-iron to about six feet. 
 And birdie on 16, I hit a little 5-iron from about 170 yards, and I made about a 25-footer. 

 Q.  66 on Saturday and you're actually further behind Lorena.  How maddening is that? 
 PAULA CREAMER:  I mean, I played good.  You can only control what you do on the golf course, you can't control anybody else.  I know that today was kind of a moving day, and as long as I'm somewhat in contention tomorrow, I'm pleased with that. 
 But what are you going to do?  I played good, and obviously Lorena played good, too. 

 Q.  It's going to be raining all day tomorrow.  Can you talk about the conditions today and even worse tomorrow, how that affects you? 
 PAULA CREAMER:  Well, I think when you play in the rain, you just kind of have to overcome it that you're going to get wet and be a little cold, have a good routine with the caddie.  My caddie Colin and I, we worked really well out there today in the rain.  You just have to focus on what you're doing.  If you let the other things get in the way, you're not going to play your game. 

 Q.  Has Lorena Ochoa reached the status yet where she's an intimidating factor? 
 PAULA CREAMER:  Everybody knows she's the No. 1 player in the world.  Other than that, you know she's going to go low because of that.  But I don't think it's intimidation.  I have a lot of respect for what she's done in women's golf, what she's done in Mexico.  But at the same time, I'm still out here trying to compete, and I think I have a good chance of winning tomorrow. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you all for coming in.  Hope you get warm, and good luck tomorrow. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT