CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2007
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Thank you all for coming in to join us.  Paula, thank you for coming in.  Obviously with the wind out there right now you have a good day with three birdies on your front nine.  You've got to be pretty happy with that.   
 PAULA CREAMER:  Yeah, the back nine was playing a lot longer, windier.  The front nine I played solid.  Every look I had for birdie, I made on the front.  The back nine I didn't hit it quite as close as I did, but I still made some really good pars, and I think I only missed three greens the whole day.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Do you want to go over the birdies?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  No. 1, I birdied, driver, 6-iron from about 160 yards to about 15 feet.   
 No. 5, I didn't hit a very good drive, but I had about 185 yards, and I hit a 4 rescue to 35 feet.   
 And then 7, I went driver, 6-iron from about 160 yards to about five feet.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about the putt on 2?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  I did miss a birdie opportunity.  It was about eight feet or so.  I just thought it was going to be a lot faster.  These greens aren't quite as similar as they are to the putting greens.  And the first hole I kind of putted a little firm.  It was about eight feet or so.   
  
  Q.  The 15-footer and then the 35-footer in the first five holes, did you think, all right, this is kind of the rhythm I want to get into, and then as you mentioned maybe the wind and you just couldn't get back into that rhythm?  Did you think that you were going to start humming along pretty well there?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  I did.  I was hitting the ball really good on the front nine.  I kind of started hitting it not as good on hole 8, and then I got a really good up-and-down on that hole.  I think just from there on, I think might have hit maybe two solid iron shots.  But my misses, you know, that's the good thing is my misses aren't that bad right now, which is a positive thing.   
 But like I said, I only missed three greens, and I'm pleased with the way I played.  But I definitely will go hit some balls afterwards.   
  
  Q.  Talk about the course and how it played today.   
 PAULA CREAMER:  The greens were -- they're different.  Every green is different.  Some of them released -- I had a wedge that release ten yards, and I had a 5-iron that releases a yard.  It's just very different.  If you leave it short, it always bounces up.  But sometimes it just is very different with that.   
 The greens here, they're very soft, as well, so in the afternoon there was a lot of spike marks, which I think will probably play a pretty big impact on the afternoon rounds.  But it's in great shape.  The rough is thick.  If you hit it in the rough you have to think about what can I get on, not just what's your number, which is what you want in the Canadian Women's Open; you want a difficult shot.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Thanks a lot.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT