CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2007
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Paula, thank you so much for coming in.  You're coming in here having a great season.  You have one win this season, you have eight Top-10 finishes including a tie for 7th at the Women's British Open a couple weeks ago.  But you went from there to playing Japan and then here in Canada, so you've done a lot of traveling.  How are you feeling?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  You know, it's been a long stretch and I have one more to go, so seven, which doesn't seem that long, but it has been all over the world.  I'm a little tired.  I haven't been sleeping too good since I've been in the States, but I'm trying to get through it.   
  
  Q.  You've had a chance to play the course a bit.  What have you seen in terms of challenges for the next four days?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  It's a really good golf course.  I love tree-lined golf courses.  The rough is pretty thick out there.  I think the biggest thing for me will be my putting.  I think it's going to come down to a putting contest, really.  The fairways are drawing out.  It's not playing as long as it was earlier in the week.   
 But, you know, I think it's going to be a good weekend.  Scoring should be pretty good depending on where the pin placements are, if they're tucked or not.   
  
  Q.  I was just wondering if you've had a chance to maybe (inaudible) that players might go for it and it could be a good risk-reward hole?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  It's a par 5.  A lot of it has to do with making birdies on those par 5s.  What is that, 12, that par 5?  If you can hit a high draw over those trees, then you're hitting 200 yards to 150 yards into that par 5.   
  
  Q.  How do you deal with the pressures of being so successful so young?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  Well, I put the most pressure on myself.  Nobody does that besides me.  I expect so many things.   
 But I think it's just striving for that perfection, trying to be good.  There's always little milestones and little things that you have to get through, and those kind of fall in place.  If you think about winning, you have to do so many things to get there, and you have to handle it.  You have to be able to.   
 I don't know, I think a lot of it is my parents have taught me a lot of things, to control your emotions.  I think that has a lot to do with it.  But like I said, I put the most pressure on myself.   
  
  Q.  Just wondering what the deciding factor in you coming to this tournament was.  This used to be a major on Tour.  You did a lot of travel to get to this.  It's such a good field.  What was your main factor for coming up north for this tournament?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  Well, I've always wanted to come here, but I had schedule conflicts with my sponsors.  I've always wanted to come and play, but it worked out this year.  The field is great, and I think that's the thing; the Canadian Women's Open, it's a good tournament.  It's a really nice purse, that has a lot to do with it.  But it's just great to be here.  Like I said, I've always wanted to come to this event, just schedule conflicts.   
  
  Q.  Where did the pink come from?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  Pink has always been my favorite color.  Ever since I was a little girl, I just have loved it.  I always wear something pink, no matter -- today it's my ribbon.  I don't always wear a pink outfit, but something is pink.   
  
  Q.  What was St. Andrews like for obviously somebody who loves the game of golf, to go to the birthplace?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  It was amazing.  I went earlier in April, and I think it was a good thing for me to do because once you go there you're in such awe of the place it's kind of hard to get over it in one week.  But it is, it's truly an amazing week.  Everything went as planned.  I really hope we get to go back.   
 But we got to play in all kinds of weather, which is hard to do, but it's fun to be able to get to play in galing wind and rain and cold.  It was a great week.  I'll take a lot of really good memories back from that week.   
  
  Q.  There are so many young players on the Tour now and these players are so mentally tough.  Where does that come from?  Why are they being groomed so well so they arrive on the scene ready to go?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  Well, I can only talk about myself, what I do.  I think it's just that inner drive.  I want to be the best, and I want to work hard at the game and I want to help influence it for other girls, junior girls, being involved with golf.  It's just I don't like to lose.  I want to be the best at what I do, and I think that has a lot to do with it, it's just fighting and never giving up.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT