HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 4, 2017
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great start to your round today.  Can you tell us a little about the front nine?  
PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, I played really solid on the front.  Didn't quite hit my driver as well as I have the last couple of days.  Missed a bunch of fairways on the back nine.  But I've been making a lot of really good putts.  My short game has helped me when I needed it to, but you can go low out here.  So hoping for that tomorrow.   
 Q.  You must be pleased how you bounced back.  
PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, I made a couple errors, that's for sure.  I did make a couple good birdies down the stretch, and this golf course, you've got to stay in it as long as you can.  I had a couple errant tee shots that didn't really set up well for me and ended up making bogeys there.   
 Q.  What do you think the difference is, instead of getting frustrated or concerned by that -- familiar feelings are back?  
PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, I just tried and focus on the next shot.  I'm not worried about if I hit it over here or hit it over there, because I know that my short game is good enough.   
Also just being able to go back to, okay, what does the swing really feel like, that kind of thing and not really dwelling on it, whereas in the past I would sit there and ask a million questions and say why did it do this and try figure things out, instead of just going out and playing golf.   
I'm thinking a lot; it's not like I'm just out there playing, but I'm putting pressure on myself.  But at the same time, I'm not sitting there really analysing everything.  I can do that at the range afterwards.  I'm not going to hit every shot perfect, and I really tried to give myself more room for error instead of trying to be so precise.   
I think that kind of happens when you struggle for awhile.  You start to get really in a little cloud there, and I was trying to step away from that.  I think that's what's helped me is when I do get into trouble.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT