GINN TRIBUTE HOSTED BY ANNIKA
June 1, 2007
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN:  After the second round, you're likely to be in the final group tomorrow.  You were 1-under today, 5-under overall.  Just talk about where you feel you're at right now.   
 PAULA CREAMER:  It was a pretty consistent round today.  Gave myself lots of looks.  Couple times I didn't get up and down out there from easy, you know, holes, but overall I feel pretty good with my game.   
 It's getting tougher and tougher as the days go by, especially the morning to the afternoon.  The golf course is so much different.   
  
  Q.  Can we go over your scorecard?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  Yep.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Bogey on 5.   
 PAULA CREAMER:  I hit my drive a little bit in the rough, but it was a good lie and I hit an 8-iron.  Had about 145 yards and hit an 8.  It took one bounce on the green and was it like concrete and flew over and I missed about a 15-footer.   
 Birdie on 6.  I hit a 3-wood and had about 120 yards, a little 9-iron to about four feet, par.   
 Birdie on 11.  Driver, then a 3-wood to about hundred yards and I had a little pitching wedge to two feet.   
 15 bogey.  Hit my 3-wood off the tee in perfect position from the middle of the fairway.  Had 130 yards straight downwind I thought and I hit a 9-iron but it came up short and I didn't get up and down, which was very bad bogey.   
 16, hit a smooth driver, and then I had 200 to the pin.  I hit a four rescue just to the front and I got up and down and I made a 4-footer for par.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Questions for Paula?   
  
  Q.  Do you feel like you're in pretty good position for the weekend to keep this thing rolling?  I know we've got some approaching weather to be concerned about and the tee times have been moved up.  How do you feel you're playing right now?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  I feel really good.  I think this golf course is great.  It shows a lot -- on the Back 9 there's that little stretch from 11 you should birdie Par 5 and then 12, 13, 14, those are the three good holes, including 15.   
 I feel good.  There's a lot golf left.  And like you said, with the weather approaching you never know what's going to happen.  I like where I'm sitting and I feel very confident with my game.   
  
  Q.  Are you in a stretch where you're kind of comfortable and confident in yourself?  You seems to be able to weather some bumps along the way a little bit better.  Is that how you're feeling?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  Yeah.  I put myself in some interesting places out in the golf course, but overall I'm feeling really good with my putting.  If something is off track out on the golf course, the best thing you want to rely on is your putting, and I feel good with it right now.   
 You know, the speeds of the greens have gotten so much quicker because they're so much drier.  I think if you keep going with the game plan that I've been going with I'll be in pretty good contention going into Sunday.   
  
  Q.  You seem very, very happy.  Is there some reason you're so happy this afternoon?  Is this always Paula Creamer?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  No.  I mean, jeez, I'm twenty years old out here playing good golf.  I think it's a great golf course.  I like playing the hard golf courses, difficult, having to hit it in certain places.  I like just to have to think so much out here, and I think that's a challenge.   
 But I'm 5-under par and right in there.  You got two more days left.  There's no reason why I should be mad right now.   
  
  Q.  It seemed like any time anybody comes in here we ask about somebody else.  But with the way Lorena is playing right now, she seems to be really on her game, as you seem to as well.  She's enduring a stretch like that, too.  Does that make things more difficult for you as far as overcoming her if she is going to put you up these scores week after week?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  No, I mean, that's why she's the No. 1 player right now.  She's a great consistent golfer.  I think she brings a lot to golf in general and a lot of excitement.   
 But there's two more days left, and to have that -- knowing that and knowing that there's weather coming in, you never know what's going to happen.  But I know she's going to be in the hunt, and I'm going to have to play good golf and so is she.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Anything else.  Paula, thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT