GINN TRIBUTE HOSTED BY ANNIKA
May 31, 2007
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Thank you all for coming in.  We appreciate you coming in to talk to Paula.  You had a great round.  You want to kind of summarize your round real quick and we'll go over your scorecard.   
 PAULA CREAMER:  I gave myself chances out there for birdie.  Toward the end the wind started picking up and Colin and I kind of were struggling with that.   
 But we finished with a birdie on the last hole.  I didn't make too many mistakes out there.  A couple, but I recovered well from them.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Can we go over your scorecard?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  Uh-huh.  You want me to start from the Back 9 or Front 9?  I started on 10.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Start on 10.   
 PAULA CREAMER:  All right.  Birdie on 11, Par 5.  I went driver and then I laid up to about 70 yards and then I hit -- had a 58 degree wedge and I hit it to about ten feet.   
 Bogey on 12.  Hit my drive down the middle of the fairway.  It was about 185 to the hole and hit a four rescue and took a really bad bounce at the front the green left and I was kind of against the rough and the collar, and I didn't hit a very good chip and missed about a 10-footer.   
 Birdie on 15.  I had about 165 yards.  I hit a 6-iron to two foot.  It was down the hill.   
 16, Par 5.  I could have gone for it but I laid up.  I was just kind of in the rough and I laid up and hit it to about five feet with my 54 degree wedge.   
 And then birdie on 17.  Played about 155.  I hit a little 6-iron to a foot.   
 And then No.4 bogeyed.  I had 118 yards to the hole and total missclub because of the wind.  Misjudged it and left it way short and missed about a 4-footer to get up and down for par.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  What club?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  I hit a wedge, just the wrong club.   
 Birdie on 5.  I hit it right in the rough and I came up with a pretty decent lie and I had about 150 yards and hit a little 6 to maybe 35, 40 feet to the right and I made a bomb.   
 Birdie on 9.  Driver, 3-wood to about 80 yards, and then 54 degree wedge to about six feet.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Thank you very much.  Questions for Paula?   
  
  Q.  Are you surprised at the scores at this point?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  Well, I mean, it's all about the wind out here.  If there's no wind you can go low.  If there is wind it takes a lot of thinking.  You have to hit it in the right places.  It's just much more difficult.   
 And obviously when you play in the morning you have that advantage for a little while because there is no wind.  But today it started picking up on the 5th or 6th hole, which was on the Back 9 of mine, or I guess I should say 13, 14, in there.   
 But this golf course is getting firmer, the greens are getting firmer, and especially when the wind picks up it makes more difficult.  That's what we want.  You want a challenge out there.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  What are your thoughts on Michelle WDing?  I'm sure you know.   
 PAULA CREAMER:  I didn't know, no.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Well, do you have any thoughts on what she brings to an event and her not being here anymore?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  Why did she WD?   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Wrist injury.  On her being here to begin with, any thoughts on that?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  Okay.  Well, it brings excitement, but overall there's a lot of great players here this week.  The field is really strong.  It's pretty cool to have Annika back in the tournament, and Michelle being here always brings an extra little player to it.   
 I wasn't aware obviously that she withdrew, but I guess we just have to go out and you have to only worry about your own game and play four good rounds.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Any other questions for Paula?   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT