FIELDS OPEN IN HAWAII
February 21, 2007
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PAM WARNER:  Thanks for coming and joining us today.  Let's start with talking about your win last week at the SBS Open.   
 PAULA CREAMER:  It feels good to come here with a win.  It was an exciting week.  I played very good.  I had a lot of fun, and it was good that the off-season paid off.   
 PAM WARNER:  You tied for 11th last year at the Fields Open.  Just talk about you just had a chance to play on the course, talk about the course conditions.   
 PAULA CREAMER:  You know, it pretty wet out there.  I think it's not in the best of shape, but you know, they have got till tomorrow maybe to do some work on it.  Fairways are a little long.  The greens are getting quicker which is good.  It's a little shaky.  Hopefully the wind blows so it makes it pretty difficult out there.   
  
  Q.  What was your approach coming into this Hawaii swing last year, as opposed to this year?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  Same approach.  Just come and play as good as I can.  I think I know deep down inside that I work really hard and that I know that I can do it.  I was hitting the ball well, and I think that that gives you a bit more confidence going into it.  The pressure that I've put on myself so far this year is not as great as it was last year.  My expectations are a little different this year.   
  
  Q.  Is the pressure a little less this year?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  Just different types of feelings and different goals.   
  
  Q.  Curious how you celebrated your win.   
 PAULA CREAMER:  I just went to dinner.  We went down to Lai-Lai's (ph) and we had dinner, and then the next day I had to wake up at 5:45 in the morning for a calendar shoot.  So that was exciting, a good way to celebrate your win, wake up that early. (Laughing)  But it was fun.   
  
  Q.  Where was the calendar shoot?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  Turtle Bay.   
  
  Q.  How different are these two courses, the one you went on last week and what are some of the differences that you'll be facing, even similarities with the course this week?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  I think the similarity is the wind.  I think that's pretty obvious.  But the difference is, Turtle Bay, the greens were a lot quicker, a lot firmer.  Fairways were a lot more narrow than here.  This is a pretty wide-open golf course, pretty big greens.  I would say that the rough is a little different.  It's a little longer here than it was there.  But it's more punishing to miss fairways there than it is here, if that makes any sense.   
 But that's pretty much it.  I mean, same type of length and all.  The fairways don't seem to run as much because they are longer.   
  
  Q.  Do you think at all, this is Michelle Wie's home course, do you think at all about the fact that she's not here, do you wish maybe you could take her on on her home course?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  Well, I come out every week playing the golf course, so to me it doesn't really matter who is in the field.  Obviously you want a strong field and you want the best players there.  Ultimately I just come out trying to play my game and play the course and beat that number.   
  
  Q.  Do you pay attention to the worldwide rankings at all?  I know you went up to No. 5 in the latest rankings, does that mean anything or do you pay attention to that at all, or wait until somebody asks you or tells you about it?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  No, I mean, I want to be the No. 1 player, of course, that's my goal.  But I think that they are in the locker room so you see them.  So I need where I stand.  But, you know, I want to be No. 1.  So yes, I do.  I'm very aware of that.   
  
  Q.  Julieta Granada's mother is out here caddying for her.  Can you imagine playing at this level with one of your parents?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  With my mom?  Oh, my goodness, my mom cannot carry the bag for ten yards, let alone 18 holes.  (Laughter).   
 My mom has never played a hole of golf in her life.  I think that's fantastic.  No, my dad caddied for me a couple of times as a professional and I think that it's just a feeling of comfortability out on the golf course.   
 We don't really need to have Dad caddie for me right now.  Colin can caddie for me, that's better.   
  
  Q.  With last week's victory, is there more of a relief off your shoulders, less pressure starting out?   
 PAULA CREAMER:  Yeah, I think it is.  It was a good week.  It's a good way to start the year.  I expect the best out of myself, but it does feel good to have that win under my belt so far, and it makes the next one easier and the one easier after that.   
 PAM WARNER:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT