U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 2006
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Give us a report, please, on your wrist today.
 PAULA CREAMER:  The wrist is feeling all right.  It kind of got a little sore out there later in the afternoon, took a couple Advils just to help it out.  But it's feeling good, and mentally I'm just trying to overcome it.
Q.  I noticed you had a little problem hitting the fairways today off the tee.  Any explanation for that?
 PAULA CREAMER:  You know, I just changed a couple of my lines today.  I think on No. 8 I just    let me start over here.

The longer par 4s I know I just swung too hard and I lost it right, 14 and 8, both of them, put myself out of position, and then I hit terrible wedges into the green.  I was just trying to save bogey at that point.

Whenever we had to overcome some things, I just tried to stay in and stay tough.
Q.  36 holes tomorrow, you're going to be in one of the high profiling pairings.  What's your approach?
 PAULA CREAMER:  I'm excited.  This is what I want.  I want to put myself in contention.  2 under, I think there was ten people under par yesterday and there's only a couple today and it just is going to get lower and lower.  Hopefully I stay patient like I have been and trying to make some good shots here and there and make a couple birdies.  It's hard to get a good rhythm because you are hitting such long irons.
Q.  From an endurance standpoint what's it going to be like tomorrow?
 PAULA CREAMER:  Even after one round you're pretty mentally tired.  It's going to be a battle of who can be the most mentally tough out there on the golf course and have the most energy.  It kind of stinks having the late tee time because the bounce back is a little short, 6:30 first tee time.  But you can say it's the same for everybody, but I think whoever wins this tournament will be the most mentally tough.
Q.  When you see Annika has posted at minus 2, is there a little bit of an envy there that she's done with her day and able to sit back with that number posted?
 PAULA CREAMER:  Yes and no.  I think the conditions were    I'm not sure.  I believe they were similar to what we had yesterday.  The best thing is that I realize that she had a lot of pars, and if you do that in a major championship, you'll put yourself in good position.  I came out and I felt like that on the front nine.  It got really windy on the back, and I just said let's fight through it and we'll be around the leaders tomorrow.
Q.  Was the Solheim Cup the last time you played 36 in competition?
 PAULA CREAMER:  Well, at Bulle Rock I played    how many did I play?  I don't remember how many I played.  I played 27, so that was the last time.
Q.  Do you know your wrist can handle the 36 tomorrow?
PAULA CREAMER:  We don't know if it can, but it will.  I will make it.
Q.  How does it feel now?
 PAULA CREAMER:  I think it's going to be okay.  I'm going to take a lot of Advil.  I'm going to ice it tonight.  I'm going to get work done after I'm done here.  I know it's going to hurt.  It hasn't been as bad as I thought it was going to be here with the fairways, but oh, well, I just have to move on and hopefully won't bother me.
Q.  Do you think about it?
 PAULA CREAMER:  I'm definitely very aware of it.  When I hit in the rough and things like that, so hopefully I'll hit a lot of fairways and just not have that.  But like I said, it's getting better, which I think is the best part to overcome, that I know it's on the mend.
Q.  Isn't it weird when you look at the leaderboard and see where you are and usually on Saturday night you look at it and get a different picture?  What's that like?
 PAULA CREAMER:  Today is normally moving day, and tomorrow we're going to just have to keep it going.  I guess it's a good thing knowing that I have two rounds tomorrow.  It's a lot of golf and anything can happen.  We'll see what happens with that.

The main thing is staying patient for me.  If I get anxious out there, then it tends to get a little shaky, but I just need to know that there's 36 holes out there, and Colin and I, we're going to work through it.  It's going to be a long day, so hopefully I'll get some rest.
Q.  Were you anxious at all today?
 PAULA CREAMER:  I did a little bit.  It started with    I made birdie on 10.  I gave myself so many chances for birdie out there today, and to be 1 over par is kind of a shame.  I played a lot better than what I posted.  But after that I made a couple mental errors, especially off the tee, made some poor decisions there.  But I'll look at it and analyze it and then go out tomorrow and regroup and replan.
Q.  Is there any way to fight through that and not lose focus?  What do you do?
 PAULA CREAMER:  Well, Colin is very aware of my emotions out on the golf course, my caddie.  So he'll help me.  He told me on    I forget what hole it was, 14, 15, we were on the clock for three holes, so that gets your heart racing and carries into everything else.  I hit some pretty    not errant but not very solidly struck irons, and he said you need to calm down, you're just getting a little anxious, jumping the gun a little bit.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT