THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 25, 2019
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So 7-under round.  You've got to feel really good right now.  
PAULA CREAMER: Yeah.  Actually played well.  When I got into trouble I managed to get the ball back in and get up and down with my wedge or get up and down.   
But gave myself a lot of looks for birdie and just was pretty consistent overall.   
 Q.  Talk a little bit about the putting.  When did you change the stance and why is it working for you?  
PAULA CREAMER: I've been kind of changing my putting a lot the last several months.  I got that putter in Kingsmill and literally walked over to the bag and picked it out of it.   
Then I would say Arkansas was really when I went to more of a split stance, my left foot behind.  I've started AimPoint as well.  I started AimPoint after -- I believe it was after ShopRite I had my first lesson.  It seems to be working well.  I've picked it up pretty quickly.  You still have to practice it a lot.  It's not something that just kind of comes to you.  I've been working really hard on that, like every day pretty much.   
 Q.  Why does the split stance work?  
PAULA CREAMER: I mean, for me, I feel really comfortable.  My stroke is very consistent every single time.  I walk in and I go.  You don't see me really fiddling a lot.  Just kind of stepping into it and putting it, and I just seem to be able to repeat that over and over and over again.   
That was something we've been trying to do, be more consistent with my putting.  It's helped my speed a lot, too.  My stroke is just very compact with it.  Obviously being able to read the putts better, that comes in with confidence.   
 Q.  Last five, six weeks have been very good for you.  A lot of signs of progress there.  You feeling you're in a good place now?  
PAULA CREAMER: I do.  I feel really just in control.  I'm going to hit some shots that aren't going to be perfect, but most the time I know where they come from.  I haven't honestly filmed my golf swing manage in probably three months.  We're just really working.  We have three or four key things that I work on every day.   
I think we've got a really good system going on now with my team.  I'm confident and playing good golf.  When you're in control, you kind of feel better about going into tournaments with tighter pins, things like that.   
 Q.  Did the good feelings come back at Evian?  (Regarding 14 years ago.)  
PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, I mean, coming here obviously puts a big smile on my face thinking I was 18, 19, whatever I was, 19 years old when I won here, which was kind of unheard of at the time.   
But it's an awesome place and I'm so glad we're here this time of year.  Just really shows off the golf course better.  It's just so pretty, and hopefully the weather can not rain on us.  But we'll see what Mother Nature has for us.   
 Q.  What's the last time tomorrow you led on the first day of a major?  
PAULA CREAMER: I mean, I don't know.  Who knows if that's going to stay.  Still a lot of golf left, three days, and I can only just keep doing what I have been doing the last several weeks.   
 Q.  When is the last time you felt this good about your golf game as a whole?  
PAULA CREAMER: It's been a while.  You have a good week here or there and then something would happen.  I'm healthy, knock on wood.  I haven't had any problems since the beginning of the year.  I've really worked hard on my rehab and things like that.  I'm able to practice with my wrist.   
So honestly, it's been several years where I felt like just all in all good in my shoes kind of thing.  That's nice.  It's nice to kind of be back to that.  But no pressure.  Not putting myself in any place where I have to do something.  I just want to have fun and play good golf.   
 Q.  Talked to you earlier in the year and you talked about needing to recharge your batteries physically and mentally.  You think you've done both?  
PAULA CREAMER: I do.  It's been crazy the last four, five years of my life.  I feel like I'm in a really good place off and on the golf course.  It's hard enough out here, and then you bring your other life into the mix of things.   
I feel very good.  Not every day is a going to be great.  Not every day is gonna be bad either.  I just feel like mentally I'm in a very, very strong place.   
 Q.  This is still with Kevin, right?  
PAULA CREAMER: Yes.   
 Q.  Minus 7; well done; amazing round.  What are you most happy with today?  
PAULA CREAMER: You know, I gave myself a lot of chances out there, and when I did kind of hit it in an errant spot I was able to recover.  No bogeys today, which was really good out on this golf course.   
It's nice to be able to go out and see the ball go in the hole.  Birdied my 2nd hole, and kind of from on there I just kept on going?   
 Q.  Things are going well with the flat stick?  
PAULA CREAMER: It is.  Things are going well the last several months.  Been very consistent golf the last four, five tournaments.  I feel really good.  I feel like I'm in -- I goes you can kind of say you're in control of your golf game, but that's where I feel right now, and excited for the next three rounds.   
 Q.  A lot of concentration on the 18th; been changed to a par-5.  Birdied that today.  Talk us through it.  
PAULA CREAMER: Hit my drive in the first cut, and you have to hit a pretty good drive - I do - to even kind of think about going for the green in two.  I just laid up to about 75 yards and hit it to about five feet and made a birdie.   
 Q.  Sitting at the top of the leaderboard, a 7-under round.  You ten Top 10s and a win.  How does it feel to be back?  
PAULA CREAMER: Oh, it feels good.  I mean, I love coming here.  It's so beautiful.  I think this is the perfect time of year to be here.  I've always liked this golf course.  First time I came here I ended up winning.  It's always set a good mile marker in my book.   
I played well today, and it was nice to make some birdies and no bogeys.   
 Q.  You're always known for your pink accents, and the whole tournament is just pink and colorful and happy.  
PAULA CREAMER: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  Do you feel like it's just a good vibe here?  
PAULA CREAMER: You know, it's funny.  I did an interview yesterday and they brought up what did I think about the golf course when I first came here.  I said, Honestly, I was just like, Everything is pink here.  I didn't care about the golf course.  I thought, how cool is this?  I was 18 years old.  It's made for me, Pink Panther.  Every time I've come I've always enjoyed it.   
 Q.  A bogey-free round, your career low here at the Evian Resort Golf Course.  What worked for you to stay so consist?  
PAULA CREAMER: I didn't know it was my career low.  That's pretty good.  I'll take that.  I think the key was no bogeys.  Every time I put myself maybe out of position I was able to make par.   
I hit a lot greens, a lot of fairways, and I love this golf course.  I just think it sets up really well for my game.  It's nice when you can come to a place that you've won at as well.  It's just a fun week, a fun tournament.   
 Q.  What do you enjoy the most about this tournament?  
PAULA CREAMER: I mean, it's just so beautiful.  You can't get over the scenery.  If you're ever having a bad moment, you just look over to your right and you see the lake.   
But also all the pink.  I mean, first time I came higher here I was just like, This place was meant for me.  I love all the pink.   
But I think when you're playing good golf you need to be confident out here, and that's kind of been what I've been doing the last several weeks.   
 Q.  You had 25 putts today with a new stance.  What has that new stance allowed you to do?  
PAULA CREAMER: Just very consistent.  I do my kind of split stance, I guess you could say.  I just am able to walk right into the putt and go.  I've gone to AimPoint now as well.  It's taken me a little bit of time to get used to.  It's something you have to practice, and I feel really confident with it.   
So between the two it's just been a good mixture, a good combination, and hopefully keep it going.   
 Q.  This is your 15th appearance here this week.  What's been the biggest lessons you've learned about this golf course?  
PAULA CREAMER: Just to stay patient out here.  I mean, obviously hitting fairways is really key.  Kind of need to slow yourself down at times just assessing what the golf course kind of gives you.  There are certain pins you can be aggressive on and certain pins you can't.  I think over the years I've realized that.   
You just have to be able to, like I said, kind of judge the wind.  You and your caddie have to really have a good mix out on the golf course, I believe.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT