HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 2, 2017
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Paula, pretty good play, a new course and new you for a new year.  Can you talk about your round today?  
PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, I played pretty solid.  Made some really good putts at a good distance.  The last couple of events I haven't had many birdie opportunities I've given myself, and today I made some of those, which is nice.  It's a good golf course.  It's nice when the wind is here.  It plays tricky and you have to figure out where to land it and whatnot.  Pleased with my first round for sure.   
 Q.  So you put a lot of work in the off-season, obviously being up there on the leaderboard is rewarding.  
PAULA CREAMER: Very much so.  After last year, I was obviously not pleased with the way I performed and I worked really hard this past off-season.  It's kind of interesting, you say you do; I feel like in the past years, I have, as well.   
But I really am proud of the way that my team and I just figured it out.  I know it's obviously early in the year but I'm very pleased with what Gary and I have been working on and my new caddies.  It's exciting for me.  I love coming out here, so it's a new start for me.  I feel good.   
 Q.  Even though it's not the course you won on, do you have the same feelings coming back to Singapore, a confidence boost?  
PAULA CREAMER: It's new for everybody.  So there's not many tricks that you have to start learning where to hit it and that kind of thing.  There's always great memories here.  Doesn't matter it's a golf tournament, doesn't matter where I'm at, it's always brought up because of that putt.  Singapore is I think one of my favourite places we go all year, so it's nice to be here.   
 Q.  Of your holes out, which one were you most pleased with?  
PAULA CREAMER: I birdied 10, 12, 13, so that was kind of a nice little run right there.  Had a good look on 9 and 8, as well.  Started to settle down in there.  Made a good par putt on 3 and I think that just kind of gave me a little momentum and birdied the next hole, the par 3.  Made some good putts which I needed to and that was really a confidence booster for myself.   
 Q.  Feeling the momentum?  
PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, which in the past several events, I haven't really had that.  So this was good, after Bahamas, we still continued on working hard but really realised where I need to get better.   
 Q.  Can you talk about HSBC giving you an invite into this tournament?  
PAULA CREAMER: Oh, this is awesome.  I'm so thankful for Giles to give me this, just a little bit of kind of a relief and be able to come out here and give me the opportunity to play.  You know, this is one of my favourite events, and it's nice to be able to come here.  Would have been tough sitting home watching it on TV but Giles and HSBC believed in me and gave me this opportunity.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT