U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2006
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  First of all, how did the course behave?
 PAULA CREAMER:  Considering it was wet out there, it held up pretty good.  It was one of those things, where a couple of times I felt it out there.  Overall it wasn't too bad.
Q.  How did the conditions of the course affect your play?  Was it wet, was it muddy?
 PAULA CREAMER:  There's a couple of ways to look at it.  It's going to play long, and also you hit    it makes the fairways a lot wider because you don't get a lot of roll out here; just wherever it lands is where it ends up.  There's several ways to look at it like that.

But I think overall the golf course played tough, even though there wasn't much wind.  It was still a very difficult test of golf.
Q.  Are you pleased with your round at even par?
 PAULA CREAMER:  I am.  Even par is a good score.  Obviously it could have gone a lot better, or could have gone a lot worse.  I made a couple of mental errors, but thought through it and made some good up and downs.  I three putted No. 8, my 17th hole, which you never want to do.  I finished with a good two putt.
Q.  How tough is that putt on No. 9?
 PAULA CREAMER:  It was difficult.  I was thinking about chipping it.  I had a couple of ridges to go over, and I had my wedge out thinking I was going to chip it, but I watched Se Ri's putt, and I got a good teach from her.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 PAULA CREAMER:  Of course, I definitely do.  It's one of those golf courses where it's difficult with the wind and it's just    you have to hit a lot of golf shots out here, a lot of long irons, a lot of knock downs.  It's not the most creative shaping shots, but you definitely have to hit a wide range of hitting it high or hitting it low.
Q.  You must have gone a little stir crazy yesterday.  Does it feel good, is it sort of a relief to play today?
 PAULA CREAMER:  It definitely does feel good to have the first round done with I told Colin walking down the last hole.  Waking up at 4:00 in the morning the last few days, you have to grind so much out here, and that's one of the reasons I was tired.  But I'm glad it's done.  I get to sleep in tomorrow, that's the best part.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 PAULA CREAMER:  Definitely I would say the last several weeks.  It happened at ShopRite, so that's through a major and the last couple of tournaments.  I wish I could blame it on it.  I'm out here and I hurt, but I have to mentally overcome that.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT