MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 8, 2006
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAULA CREAMER:  I hit a couple bad tee shots, but I finished with par on the last hole, so that was a positive.
Q.  What about the weather?  Is the weather okay?  Last year the greens were extremely fast last year.  Today's been a little bit cooler.  You had a little bit of rain yesterday.  Did it help at all?
PAULA CREAMER:  They're much softer and some of the shots, today I'm surprised how soft they actually were.  You hit a 5 iron into a green and it only releases a couple yards.  But the weather has been    we're pretty lucky with it.  Last year it was so hot it was disgusting.  And this year it's nice.  And hopefully it gets breezy for the weekend.
Q.  Obviously you don't win a tournament on Thursday, but you seem to be    you are in that position where you're just okay, you're happy with the round and the score?
PAULA CREAMER:  Yeah, I am.  I had it to 3 under par, which really kind of makes you a little upset when you walk off with 1 under.  It could have been a lot worse; it could have been a lot better.  There's two ways to look at it.

And I have three days left, and I have a good pairing so I know the people I'm playing with are playing really well and that pushes me as well.
Q.  Can you talk about your wrist?
PAULA CREAMER:  It was fine.  I'm feeling pretty good though overall.  It's just my mind over matter, really.
Q.  As it gets toward the end of the year, and this is a Major championship, but can you talk about playing with it?
PAULA CREAMER:  I would think about it.  It would probably be a much bigger decision than now.  I'm committed to playing right now, so I think that that's the most important thing for myself.  But it would have been a different situation if it was at home.
Q.  Do you practice as much?
PAULA CREAMER:  I don't practice as much, no.  I'll probably hit 10 balls afterwards, just to work on my driver.  I'll go straight there, so I don't have to hit a lot of 7 irons to warm up.  But I can practice my putting and my chipping and that's fine.  And that's, you know, what you need out here.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
PAULA CREAMER:  Next week?  Nothing.  I will be doing nothing.  I will be resting, thank you.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
PAULA CREAMER:  Yes and no.  There's a couple times where I just, you know, I could have hit probably a 7 iron but I said, no, it's not worth it.  I got out of the rough more than anything.  In the fairway I'm fine.  It's just that I've kind of been    at the beginning I get a little nervous and then once I start hitting some shots and I feel it is okay, then the shots that killed me today was on 2.  And then Colin was like just trust it, take your practice swing, see if it hurts.  And it didn't hurt so I just kept on going.
Q.  Which shot was that on 2?
PAULA CREAMER:  I think the left and I had a drop out of the hazard and I was on a hill like way above my feet.
Q.  In the rough?
PAULA CREAMER:  Yeah.  Yeah.  So.
Q.  The one here on nine and one on one, that didn't bother you at all?
PAULA CREAMER:  Right.  No.  Well, yes and no.  I mean, I think I just    I know it's going to, consciously it's going to hurt so I just kind of say, okay, just swing hard and see what happens.  I don't    normally I would probably like take four or five practice swings to feel it out, but I only took two.  So I have to look in the rough.  You know, what are you going to do?  You swing hard.
Q.  You don't think you're going to hurt it any more, right?
PAULA CREAMER:  That's what the doctor said.  That's why I'm out here.  If I thought I was going to cause any damage to it, then I probably wouldn't be playing.  But it's fine.  It's just painful.  I can handle that though.
Q.  Does it feel like you're hurting it now?
PAULA CREAMER:  Sometimes it does.  Sometimes I say, what am I doing.  But most of the time it is okay.  I try not to think about it.  If I don't think about it, I'm okay.
Q.  The way you started today, I think the first five or six holes you had about 20 feet, every one for birdie.  Were you surprised at all to be hitting the ball that well with your wrist?
PAULA CREAMER:  Well, I hit the ball really well yesterday in the practice round for nine holes.  I hit the ball really well.  So I had a lot of confidence.  And I started playing good, but overall I just, you know, like I said, it's mind over matter and I was very pleased with the way I hit it.

I was playing the first nine holes and I had a couple wayward drivers on 1 and 2 and it could have been a lot worse.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT