SYBASE CLASSIC
May 19, 2006
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAM WARNER:  We'll take some questions for Paula.
Q.  How frustrating is it to have the weather foul up your plans for the day the way it is?
PAULA CREAMER:  It is upsetting, but there is nothing I can do about it.  I can't control the weather.  After the birdie and after the last couple of holes I played yesterday I was really excited to get out there and play.  And watching last year's telecast, that makes me even more anxious to get out on the golf course.
Q.  (No microphone.)
PAULA CREAMER:  It was great.  I had so much fun.  It was unbelievable.  I wore a really pretty dress.  I'm so glad I went.  I was so glad they asked me to go and do it.
Q.  (No microphone.)
PAULA CREAMER:  I had heels, like maybe four inches or three and a half inch heels, but they were nice and they were kind of small on me so they really stuck to my feet.  So there was no way I was going to fall down.  The runway wasn't very long so it was okay.  I walked down and back, but it was fun.  Like I said, I'm really glad I went.  I had a great time.
Q.  You talked about ending yesterday on a high note.  Just talk about obviously coming back here in terms of what it actually felt like on the first tee as defending champion.
PAULA CREAMER:  I was nervous.  It's a new experience for me.  It's the first time I've been in a professional golf event defending a title.  I was anxious to get the day going.  I had a couple of looks at birdie the first three holes and then I had a double on four.  It just happened so fast out on this golf course.

But I hit a great drive off 1.  Like I said, I started off consistently.  You make 5 pars through 11 holes and I'm thinking, My goodness, what's going on here.  Then I rattle off all these birdies like I felt I should have done the whole day.
Q.  That's probably a feather in your cap, a sign of maturity.  Would there have been a point in your career that would have been difficult to do?
PAULA CREAMER:  I've always been pretty tough out on the golf course.  I've never given up or anything like that.  I think it was just more of    it's all about grinding.  If you look at really good players, they grind through the tough times.  And I was trying everything I could out on the golf course.  But I don't think my age has anything to do with it for who I am.  I think I'm pretty mature when it comes to that kind of stuff, being able to move on.  That's what I've been working on the past couple of months, being able to move on and forget the past.
Q.  I seem to remember last year you talked about going out and playing in the rain a lot.  Are you a little annoyed you didn't play today because you can play; maybe others can't?
PAULA CREAMER:  Of course, I love playing in bad conditions.  Like I said, I think that's when you grind.  That's when you go through    you know, after the round you should be mentally exhausted because of how much energy you have to put in it.  I really feel when I go out in bad conditions I have a definite thumbs up advantage in front of more people.
Q.  What do players think about playing 36 holes?
PAULA CREAMER:  I'd like to play 36 holes, of course.  The more golf the better.  That would be a four day tournament and I think that's what this needs.  I think I'm young so I'm able to do that type of thing.  And I feel that it would be necessary, weather dependent.  We'll keep our fingers crossed.
Q.  Do you think you could play today?
PAULA CREAMER:  I haven't seen the golf course.  I know there's been a lot of rain.  I came out Tuesday for a practice round and we had similar rain conditions and the golf course was unplayable.  It was just way too wet.  So I would assume today was.  And I saw pictures on TV that said it was too wet.  You never know.  I'm sure the rules officials made the right call.  Unfortunately, I wish I could have gone out and played.
Q.  Would you consider yourself a favorite?  You're not in the lead right now, considering that the forecast might be for more wet weather and what you did last year winning in the rain on the 18th hole?
PAULA CREAMER:  I hope so.  Last year I won in the rain, so I feel I could do it again.  It is nice out there, but I wouldn't mind if it was bad conditions.  It will help me move up the leaderboard.

PAM WARNER:  Thank you, Paula.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT