SYBASE CLASSIC
May 18, 2006
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAULA CREAMER:  11, I hit in the right fairway bunker and I chipped out.  Then I didn't hit the green from 100 yards and couldn't get up and down from there.  It was just one of those days where I had    when it was bad, it was bad and when it was good, it was good.

I hit my driver a little right off 12, an errant tee shot.  But I had a pretty good lie, I was in the first cut.  I hit a good 9 iron and from there on, it was one of those things, I made about a 10 , 12 footer and it was like the hole was opening up for me.  It was just a matter of moments.  After that, it's like really consistent.  I don't know what was happening on the beginning.  It's just I can't even tell you.  It's one of those things, it was like an out of body experience.  I didn't even know what was going on.
Q.  Pretty good effort?
PAULA CREAMER:  I'm 5 over at one point today, not exactly what you want.  And to bring it back to 1, I'm very pleased with that.  At least I ended on a good note, and going into tomorrow, make a lot of birdies and just try and stay patient.
Q.  How was it playing with Juli?
PAULA CREAMER:  Oh, yeah, of course, she was my Solheim Cup partner and I have a lot of confidence when I'm playing with her.  It's a very relaxed atmosphere when I play with her.  We had a good time out there.  At one point nobody was doing anything and at one point everybody started getting on a little roll.
Q.  After winning here the first time, did you feel more pressure?
PAULA CREAMER:  I played last year and I'm expected to win again.  Of course, I'm pretty nervous, it's definitely not like any other tournament feeling that I've ever been at because it's a new thing.

But like I said I just have to forget about that and go on.
Q.  If you were to repeat here, it might give you bigger confidence because of the quality of the people, the youthful people like yourself and the veterans who have been here that know how to win; everybody out here is talented.
PAULA CREAMER:  Right, this feels is very strong.  A win here would mean a lot.  Like Evian, there's so many great players at Evian, and that win was huge for me.  Even though this was my first win, it just helped me move on and to have a good field means a lot.  But a win is a win and you have to beat players no matter what.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
PAULA CREAMER:  I think last week I played probably my best golf so far and I had a really good attitude last week.  I just went out and I said, okay, this is what you have to do.  You have to start playing better.  You have to put yourself in contention to win, and, you know, so I'm going to try to do that come tomorrow.
Q.  Inaudible?
PAULA CREAMER:  Well I said it a couple of times.  I think it's really good, because it's young, it's excitement, it's a new thing.  But I think it's even greater that Karrie Webb and Juli Inkster are still so competitive out here.  Karrie has won twice so far and won probably the two biggest tournaments we play.  I think that's pretty exciting to see that there are young players coming up, but the veterans are still doing just as good.
Q.  Inaudible?
PAULA CREAMER:  I think it's great.  Any exposure for women's golf is great, especially if it's worldwide.  I'm very lucky, my sponsors are worldwide marketers and I think that if you can get other countries involved, then I think that's great.  When you get to go over to England and things like that, it's exciting and it brings more to the venue.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT