KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 31, 2006
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
(Inaudible)?
PAULA CREAMER:  I was pretty consistent throughout the whole day.  At the beginning I couldn't hit it.  But I started gaining momentum.  I think the biggest turn around for me was that par putt on 17 that I made.  I saw the ball go in the hole and then that carried onto 18, and then I started hitting fairways on 1, 2, 3, and then I just started getting more consistent.
Q.  The chip before the green (Inaudible)?
PAULA CREAMER:  I just played the wrong shot.  I think I knew I wasn't    I was just indecisive about what I should have done, if I should done a bump a run or a chip shot.  It was one of those things.  I knew it wasn't the right shot, but I thought, well, this is what I should do.
Q.  It was a long 2 putt bogey.  You're thinking what?
PAULA CREAMER:  Well, going to 17, I like that hole a lot.  I had to stay patient.  I hit two inches behind the ball and I chunked it into the rough and I had a pretty nasty lie.  But luckily I could hit it high and it would stop.  It was very key.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
PAULA CREAMER:  It's difficult out there.  The wind was swirling.  (Inaudible)  I have to take a shot when you can.  There are a lot of birdies out there, but you have to eliminate your mistakes.
Q.  What was going on with the second shot?  What happened there?
PAULA CREAMER:  I don't know what happened there.  I was like, What was that?  I hit a tree.  It was terrible.  I don't know.  I had mud on my ball.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
PAULA CREAMER:  I think I could have moved up more today.  I missed some key putts out there that I should have done.  (Inaudible).  Birdie on 11.   I'm glad I finished strong and gave myself some chances going into the weekend.  I feel pretty good where I'm at.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
PAULA CREAMER:  Yes and no.  Annika hasn't been playing her best golf the last two days.  Her putter has failed her, but that's golf.  I've had days like that.  And it just happens to be this week.  It's not over yet.
Q.  The par 3 over the water on the front nine.  Indecision going on there?
PAULA CREAMER:  My caddie had the wrong number.  He had 139 or something and it was actually 149.  It was just he did the wrong math.  And then when I was over the ball he told me (inaudible).
Q.  (Inaudible)?
PAULA CREAMER:  I hit right.  I saw the group in front of us hit it short and in the water.  And then for me to come up short again and watch Annika come up short...(inaudible).
Q.  What did you have before you re did the math?
PAULA CREAMER:  Well, I was going to hit a three quarter 7 and I went for a three quarter 6.
Q.  No. 9, did you even notice (Inaudible)?
PAULA CREAMER:  You're out there, and yes, you're playing with a player, but you're not really worrying what she does.  I like to know what Annika is doing and I like to watch her.  But at the same time, I have to take care of my own game.
Q.  How much help do you need from Lorena today?
PAULA CREAMER:  I think we need some help.  The wind hopefully will pick up like it did yesterday.  (Inaudible.)
Q.  What's a good range to be in going into the last few days?  What would you sleep better with?
PAULA CREAMER:  I think I can shoot a couple more under par.  12 or 13, I know that I'm going to have to play really good the next few days.
Q.  How different are you than a year ago?
PAULA CREAMER:  What do you mean?
Q.  To play with her, how different is it for you now playing with her now?
PAULA CREAMER:  I have a lot of confidence in my game and know I can play out there.  And when I'm with her, I don't want to play badly, that's for sure.  I just want to go out and take care of what I have to do.  And right now she's the best player right now and (Inaudible)?
Q.  You won two times last year.  (Inaudible)?
PAULA CREAMER:  I hope this week.  That's the plan.  I definitely have the same feeling that I had last year, but then again I have to stay patient and I can't get too far ahead of myself.
Q.  (Inaudible)  How much do you look forward to that?
PAULA CREAMER:  I look really forward to going home and playing in an LPGA in front of everybody (inaudible).
Q.  Paula, can you go over your scorecard?
PAULA CREAMER:  Birdie on 2, hit 3 wood over the green, had a 4 footer.

Bogey on 16, I hit my driver in the rough and then I punched out and I had two putts from 40 feet.

And then birdie on 18, I had 95 yards, hit my 54 degree wedge to about eight feet.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT