KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 30, 2006
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Did you think expect when you started today that 69 would be a good score on this course but would leave you seven shots out of the lead?
PAULA CREAMER:  Lorena played a fantastic round.  Annika said it on TV that you just can't look at the score board after that.  10 under is fantastic.  There is still three more days and you can't dwell on being 7 back, really.  You just have to think of how you're going to move up the leaderboard in the next couple of days.
Q.  Any number under par?
PAULA CREAMER:  The golf course is in great shape.  It's very difficult.  There are pins out there that you just couldn't go for.  Overall you have to hit fairways and you have to hit greens.  And I think that if you do that, you'll give yourself potential for birdie putts and you can go as low as Lorena did.
Q.  Give us the details on your birdies.
PAULA CREAMER:  17, it was like 35 feet.  It was up there and then rolled down.

7, 3 wood, 7 iron to like five feet.

And then the par 3, 8, I hit a 6 iron to about a foot.

I bogeyed 4.  I hit a driver right and then I chunked it out and had a 10 footer for par.

Then I birdie 14, another par 3.  I hit a 9 iron to like six feet.
Q.  When you saw the 10 under on the board, did it change your mindset at all, trying not to get too far back?
PAULA CREAMER:  Like I said, I tried not to look at it.  She played in the morning.  The wind picked up in the afternoon.  And it was totally different wind conditions.  The golf course plays a little harder in the afternoon than it does in the morning.

You can't look at it, really.  It's the first day.  And I just have to get give myself many opportunities to go low.
Q.  Were you surprised 10 under was the number?  It wasn't really predicted?
PAULA CREAMER:  It's a fantastic round.  I think it's a major record.  That's pretty fantastic.
Q.  Have you ever had occasion, even in junior golf, where you shot something ridiculous in the first round and had a big lead, and having three days left or two days left, is it hard to sometimes protect it?
PAULA CREAMER:  There are people chasing you, that's for sure.  Lorena has got a four shot lead.  I would rather have that than coming up from behind.  But at the same time, there's still a lot of golf and the golf course is only going to get more difficult.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT