SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 30, 2016
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How would you rate your week overall?  It's a pretty steady start and you charged towards the end?  
PAULA CREAMER: This whole week I played very solid.  I can't be upset about that.  I had two big numbers on Thursday and Friday, a triple and a double, and other than that, I played pretty good.  I love coming to Malaysia.  I think it's a great place.  I like the golf course and it's a good momentum going into the next overall tournaments that we have left.   
 Q.  Have you rediscovered your form that you might not have had earlier in the year?  
PAULA CREAMER: This has been a crazy year for me.  It looks like I'm very far away from being good, but I'm really not that far away.  I'm very close.  I proved it I think yesterday, and today I played pretty solid.  There was some tough pins out there and I shot 3-under today.   
Overall, this is kind of what we've been looking for and hopefully I can continue to keep it going.   
 Q.  Quite ironic, because it's all about pink this tournament and you're all about pink.  What do you feel your memories are of Malaysia this time around?  
PAULA CREAMER: They are always great.  That's why we all keep coming back.  If it wasn't good, then I don't think you would see many players here, but Malaysia treats us well.  Like I said, the golf course here is wonderful.  It's tough and it's tricky when the wind starts to pick up.  It's nice to see everybody in pink and especially for a great cause, promoting and supporting breast cancer.   
 Q.  And lastly, the season is about to end.  What are your plans now?  Are you going to play till the end or are you looking forward to the holidays?  
PAULA CREAMER: I'm going to be playing all the tournaments till the end of the year.  I don't know the last time we played five in a row.  I need to do it; I need to get on the golf course and play and this is kind of what I wanted.  I know if I keep continuing this on, hopefully I can get a win under my belt by the end of the year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT