SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 29, 2016
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 7-under round today.  What was the key for you?
PAULA CREAMER: Well, I started on the back nine, second off today, you get really good greens.  But I played great.  I hit a lot of really good iron shots.  Made a lot of good putts.  Just tried to keep the momentum going.
I could have shot a lot more under par, but I'll definitely take my 7-under.
Q. Obviously not the position you wanted to be in going into the weekend but a bounce-back round like this, is there anything specific you worked on after your round yesterday?
PAULA CREAMER: Quite truthfully the last two days, I played pretty good.  The first day I had a triple on my last hole and yesterday I had a double.  So if you take those two things away, I'd be pretty much right in the mix of things and I know that.  I've been playing well and putting well and my short game is on point.  It's just putting them all together and hopefully I can do it tomorrow.
Q. You can see the background, just a ton of rain.  How happy are you to get off the course?
PAULA CREAMER: I'm very pleased with that.  Definitely when we were walking down the ninth fairway today, I was thinking:  Oh, no, we'd better pick it up to try to get it in.  Nobody wants to sit in a rain delay.
Q. What's your game plan going into tomorrow's final round?
PAULA CREAMER: Try to be as aggressive as I have been.  There are some pins where you just can't go for, and on the par 5s, try to take a little advantage of it.
I talked to my mom this morning -- I always talk to my parents before I play, and it doesn't matter what side of the world we're on.  My mom said, "I have really good feeling today.  I know that you're going to play really well."  So hopefully my mom can say that again to me tomorrow and have another good feeling.
It's actually a great coincidence to play good on a special day.  Definitely I gave myself a lot of opportunities, played great on the back nine, which is my front nine, but it's fun to be able to come out and play good golf in front of all the great fans here.
Q. How do you feel you're placed going into tomorrow's round?  Do you think you have a shot?
PAULA CREAMER: I feel really good.  I mean, there's still a lot of golf left.  The leaders have three more holes to play, but you know, I've been playing really well the last couple of days.  I just had two bad holes, or else I'd be right in the mix.
Today was awesome, and I hope to do it again tomorrow.
Q. 2014 HSBC Women's Champions was the last time you were in the winner's circle.  Do you feel that you're close to winning again?
PAULA CREAMER: Oh, definitely.  I've said it a lot:  I look a lot farther away than what I really am, and that's golf.  I've been working really hard with my coach, Gary, and we've made a lot of changes this year.  It's just a matter of putting them all together, and today was a great confidence booster.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT