WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 30, 2005
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAUL ROVNAK:  Paula, thanks for coming in and joining us.  A fabulous round out there today, you played yourself right into contention in this tournament, and just your thoughts on that.
PAULA CREAMER:  Yeah, today I hit the ball well.  I gave myself chances and I took opportunities to make birdie.  I left a lot out there, but I also made some good putts.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Can you take us over that score card?
PAULA CREAMER:  Birdie on 4.  I had a 5 iron and had 170 yards and I hit it to about four feet.

No. 5, I had 120 yards and I had a little 9 iron to about six feet.

No. 6, I had 210 yards and hit a three rescue.  I 2 putted the par 5, reached it in two, from about 35, 40 feet.

7, I hit an 8 iron 145 yards to about a foot, within a foot, a couple inches.

15, I had about 210.  Again I hit a three rescue and got up and down.  I made about a 4 footer.

17, I hit driver.  Pulled it way left off the mound, punched out with my 8 iron.  I had 125 yards to the hole and I made about an 8 footer.

And 18, I went driver, 3 wood.  I hit a terrible 3 wood but got lucky with that.  I had like 210 to the front and I 2 putted from about 30 feet, 25 feet.
Q.  Would you rather be in the last group or playing behind them?
PAULA CREAMER:  It really doesn't matter to me.  I mean, obviously I'd like to play with the leaders but we'll see what happens.  I mean, there's still several birdie holes out there, but that would be great.  I like playing under pressure, so that would be good.
Q.  Can you tell us about the socks?
PAULA CREAMER:  It's just something different, just to I guess spice things up a little bit.  You get out there and you wear a lot of the same clothes as a lot of the other players, luckily, Adidas, they do a good job, so that's good.  It won't be an every day type of thing, just every once in awhile sometimes.
Q.  Was it hard to keep the socks up?
PAULA CREAMER:  Well, only when I would like read putts, I'd kind of like go down and after a while, when I made a putt, I'd pull them up, and then I missed one, so then just rolled them down.
Q.  Did you have other chances for birdie, at 7?
PAULA CREAMER:  Oh, definitely.  There wasn't hardly any wind out there.  It was easy to score.  You could go low.
Q.  Were there other putts you should have made?
PAULA CREAMER:  Oh, yeah, definitely.  I hit a lot of greens today, 1, 2,  3, 9, 14.  I mean, I had a lot of looks out there.
Q.  What sort of lengths were those putts that you had birdie chances?
PAULA CREAMER:  Anywhere from 15 feet to about maybe 23, 24 feet, 25 feet.
Q.  The first round, you were 4 over?
PAULA CREAMER:  Yeah, I actually went bogey    I bogeyed the first hole and then I went bogey, double on 7 and 8.
Q.  Did something turn it around for you?
PAULA CREAMER:  I made a good save on 9, a really good up and down on 9.  At that point, we went through, when it started really, really raining, I was, of course, on the hardest holes on the golf course, 8 and 13.  In that kind of weather when you cannot reach a par 4, it's very tough.

But I just kind of told myself, you know, you can't be 4 over par through eight holes in a major championship.  I got up and down on the next hole and then played good golf.  I made birdie on 10 and 12 and finished not as good as I wanted to but that was a momentum swing on 9.

Just the wind and the rain at the same time, I've played in worse rain and I've played in bad winds; together, it was brutal.
Q.  Inaudible?
PAULA CREAMER:  I told you I like fashion, so it's always going to be a surprise.  Really I haven't decided.  I have an idea what I want to wear tomorrow, pink ones or white ones, I don't know yet.  They are like pink and white stripes, maybe.  I haven't decided.  It depends.
Q.  Laura Davies said on TV that you'll need some help from the leaders to overtake her, but you're closer now than you were then?
PAULA CREAMER:  Oh, definitely need some help.  She's playing really good golf but you can't depend on that.  You can only control yourself.  To get somewhere within five or six, five would be fine with me going into the weekend considering where I was starting out.
Q.  What is the favorite nickname    inaudible?
PAULA CREAMER:  Pink Panther.
Q.  Will you be wearing some    inaudible?
PAULA CREAMER:  Pink is my favorite color and I always some pink on no matter what it is or what time of the day.  I always have something pink on and they started calling me Pink Panther and it stuck.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT