HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2005
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAUL ROVNAK:  We welcome Paula Creamer.  Talk about playing match play this week.
PAULA CREAMER:  I think going into this, I'm a lot more into match play than a lot of the women, except that play Solheim Cup, so I think I have a big advantage.
Q.  Do you change your game any different for match play than you would a regular tournament?
PAULA CREAMER:  Totally different, yeah.  You're not playing the golf course anymore.  You're playing your opponent.  Your game plan is just not really existent to the golf course, it's just what your opponent does.  You have to be obviously very aware of what she's doing.
Q.  How do you think your youth helps you in the tournament?  Do you have expectations, even playing on hot days?
PAULA CREAMER:  Well, my expectations are I think incredibly high.  I mean, I know they are very high.  You mean like youth?
Q.  Physically, and also youth; meaning you don't have any expectations that don't have as many expectations?
PAULA CREAMER:  Well, my expectations are very high.  Like I said, you know, I think I put the most pressure on myself.  By no means, no one else does.  I expect a lot out of myself.  I'm not really, you know, content with what I normally do unless I either win or I give it my all.

But I think that you definitely have to be in shape on this golf course.  It's hot, it's hilly, it's humid; so it's going to take a lot of draining out there.  Like I said, you're just playing that one other person, you're not playing 144 other players.
Q.  What other New Jersey courses have you played, or is this your first time out here?
PAULA CREAMER:  In New Jersey?  Goodness, I've been a couple of times.  Where have I played
PAUL ROVNAK:  Well, you played our tournament in Atlantic City.
PAULA CREAMER:  I played a U.S. Girls event.  I believe it was in New Jersey; I don't remember.  I've been here a couple of  times.
Q.  You had a practice round, I assume; what's your impression of the course?
PAULA CREAMER:  I have not played a practice round yet.  I just walked the front nine right now.  I just got back from doing that and it looks like a relatively wide open golf course.  The greens are holding very well.  Greens are slow compared to what we just came off of.  I brought my wedge and my putter out there but I haven't played it yet.
Q.  Do you think being that you're 18, do you feel over your head times, do you feel that maybe there's too much too soon?
PAULA CREAMER:  No, not at all.  Eve always I've always looked forward to turning professional.  It was a big decision and everything has gone smoothly.  I'm very lucky that way that I have a great team around me that helps me get to where I have to go and things like that.  But I enjoy it so much.  I mean, this is a blast.  I think any other 18 year old would love it, as well.
Q.  Do you talk to some of the other younger golfers on the course as to the rigors of playing the LPGA going in or just in terms of getting through the season?
PAULA CREAMER:  Other players?  Oh, yeah, I'm very good friends with, you know, like Lorie Kane and Wendy Ward.  Obviously I talk to, you know, like Natalie and Cristie, and there's a lot of girls out there that have been very, very helpful toward me, very supportive.  Lorie is like my older sister.  I'm very lucky that I've had a lot of veterans that have taken me under their winning.
Q.  Veterans, meaning just some of the older players?
PAULA CREAMER:  Yeah, like the experienced players that have been out here for several years.
Q.  Expand on the difficulty of the course.
PAULA CREAMER:  Well, I haven't really seen the golf course.  Like I said, I only saw the front nine.  It's pretty hilly and it's definitely hot, humid, you have to drink lots of water.  It's definitely going to be an endurance test out here, not only physically but mentally as well.  Match play, you always have to be thinking about not only what's going on with yourself, but what your other opponent is doing.
Q.  What are some of your most successful match play in the amateur ranks?
PAULA CREAMER:  I've played in the Amateur, U.S. girls, Curtis Cup, U.S. Junior Solheim Cup.  Polo, I won Polo, an AJGA event which is match play.  I've played in, goodness, a lot of match play events and I love match play.  I think that it's a good change.
Q.  The LPGA has crammed in a lot of important stuff schedule wise, do you feel happy that all of a sudden this is a match play event after coming off the grind of the last few weeks or does it really matter?
PAULA CREAMER:  I think it's nice to have a match play event in the season.  I think that makes it a good    we have a really good field, and, I mean, the Top 64 players are here and that makes it even better.

I think coming off of obviously two majors that we've had in the last three weeks, some good tournaments in there and a match play event makes it a good run right now.  I think that it makes it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT