MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 9, 2005
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   We got Paula Creamer here in the interview room, 4  under par 68, one shot out of the lead.  Let's go over your scorecard first.

(Scorecard done.)
Q.   4 under par, 68, you've got to be happy about your round today.  Talk a little bit about it and your thoughts right now.
PAULA CREAMER: The whole day I tried to stay very patient.  This is a Major, you can't make any mistakes out here.  The Front 9 I made a lot of pars, and number 9 I hit a terrible wedge.  After the rain delay I kind of settled down.  I rolled out some birdies, I had many chances on the Front 9 and couldn't make any.
Q.   Questions?  Did the rain delay come at a good time?
PAULA CREAMER: Yes and no.  I had a roll where I was making pars and things like that.  I guess yes and no.  It was nice to kind of cool off.  At the same time I was on a roll.  As it turns out, it was a good thing.  I didn't really notice a difference.
Q.   Paula, I'm not sure what happened after the delay, but before then you had a decent gallery, a lot of them younger girls.  Do you notice more younger girls watching you now than there was two or three months ago?
PAULA CREAMER: Definitely a lot more girls having pink, and with their ribbons in their hair.  It's cute.  I talk to them once in a while if I have the chance.  If it's in the middle of the round, it's tough.  I try to talk to them, and they seem like they're all getting started.  It's nice to know they're out there watching us.
Q.   Was 16 the only fairway you missed today and can you talk to how important it is for your game to hit the fairways?
PAULA CREAMER: 16 was the only fairway I missed, and the whole day it was the only one.  Out here you have to hit fairways or else you get     the rough out here is awful.  It's very thick.  It's terrible.  I got lucky with that.  I got a good lie, and, you know, for me, it's crucial for me to hit fairways and greens.  That's how I've always played.
Q.   On the 8th hole, your second shot that seemed like you got on top of it what happened on that shot?
PAULA CREAMER: I had like a funky lie on the fairway and I was trying to hit it too hard and I got quick.  My ball position, I talked to Lance my caddy because of the uphill slope.  I played it too far forward and it kind of got away from me.  I could have gotten there definitely.  It was almost too much club.  We were in between clubs.  If I were to do it again, I would definitely hit a 3 rescue.
Q.   Any aspects you would improve upon come tomorrow?
PAULA CREAMER: I was pretty happy with the way I played today.  Definitely make more putts.  I gave myself plenty of looks today.  There was a couple of holes out there like number 8 and 9 that they're easy birdie holes that I didn't give myself a chance.  That's what I'm going to try to do is hit the middle of greens, but try to take it a little bit more aggressive when it's an easy hole.
Q.   Any more questions?

Natalie Gulbis today said her and her caddy thought about 8 under would win this.  Are you surprised at the scores.
PAULA CREAMER: I am.  I'm very surprised.  The conditions out there were nice.  It was hot but not tough conditions.  The greens will get faster and the rough will get thicker.  I thought 8 under would also win this event and we're almost there.  You have to stay patient in this game, and especially it's a Major.  That's why you need to stay patient.
Q.   Was there anything you learned from playing with a Veteran like Laura Davies?
PAULA CREAMER: Oh, yes, when you play with an icon like that my eyes were pretty much focused on her.  When she started playing well, my momentum kind of picked up as well.  It was fun.  It was a great run, especially playing with Grace too.  I felt I had a very good group, and I learned a lot from both of them.
Q.   Any more questions?  All right.  Thanks a lot, Paula.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT