KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 23, 2005
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOEL LAMP:  We have Paula Creamer here.  Paula, your first major as a professional.  You had to work your way in here to get into the Top 15.  Talk about how big of an accomplishment it is to just get to be able to play this week.
PAULA CREAMER:  I'm very excited to be here definitely.  It feels that much sweeter to be here knowing that I earned my way in the last three weeks.  But it's great to be here and hopefully all goes well and I can play my game.
Q.  Talk about the adjustment, a year ago you were here, what's the difference now?
PAULA CREAMER:  Lots of things.  Money is a big difference.  There's many different things.  I just have a different mindset coming into this event, and you know, I've played the golf course and I'm very familiar with it and I was here for Q-School, so there's a lot of background out here.

I'm really looking forward to it and getting ready to play.  Excited, I guess you could say.
Q.  Wonder if you could talk about Annika Sorenstam and how impressive she's been especially the last two weeks, and what can you take away from that?
PAULA CREAMER:  Well, you can always learn the most from the No. 1 player in the world.  I've learned so much from her just watching her, and I played with her here last year, and it's probably the most I've ever learned in a round of golf probably in my entire life.  She's a fantastic player, and that's where I want to be in a short time and hopefully that will be the day.  But I've learned a lot, that she's incredibly consistent, and she has a fantastic mental game and that's what you need out here.
Q.  You're paired with one of the top young amateurs, Morgan Pressel; how often have you played with her?
PAULA CREAMER:  We've played a long time.  It feels like junior golf all over again.  It hasn't been that long since we haven't played together.  But yeah, it's good, I'll be very comfortable out there and I'm sure she'll be comfortable, too.
Q.  What have the last three weeks been like, and how have you been progressing trying to get in here and how much was it on your mind?
PAULA CREAMER:  Oh, it was probably the main reason I was out there those three weeks to get comfortable and also to get into this event.  This is tough to do when you have three weeks to get Top 15 and the best players in the world are playing, too.

So it was tough, but it was a good goal and I like to have goals that are pretty far out there, but, you know, it's going I feel very proud of myself that I made it.  But still, could have been a little better, and there's always room for improvement.
Q.  Can you talk about your preparation to turning professional, and how much would you say you've learned -- inaudible -- and not knowing what you're getting yourself into until you get out here?
PAULA CREAMER:  It's a little bit of both.  Learning how to win has helped me tremendously in knowing that I have confidence and that I can pull something off with three holes to go.  It's just experience, really.

At the AJGA we played a lot of fantastic golf courses but when you play out here, it's all about experience.  Last year I gained a lot of experience, and that was probably the most important thing and the biggest decision why I didn't turn was because of that experience.  I don't think that is necessarily one place that is going to help you learn that, just to be out here really.
Q.  Talk about the big difference now that you've got some money; have you treated yourself to anything?
PAULA CREAMER:  Unfortunately, yes, but I'm a girl and I shop all the time.  I've been here three days and I've gone shopping every day.  We are trying to cut back on that.  Yes, I have treated myself.
Q.  Can you be specific about the goals that you've sort of already notched on the schedule this year, things you wants to do, places you want to go, where you want to play?
PAULA CREAMER:  Well, this is probably the first goal of mine to get to the Nabisco.  That's done now.  In the first couple of weeks I wanted to make Top-10 finishes, a couple Top-10 finishes and having a shot at winning an event.  Haven't gotten quite there.  I had a Top-10, but still it wasn't, you know -- and a chance to win.

But my main goal of the year is definitely Solheim Cup and representing my country, and of course, playing under Nancy Lopez is a huge goal of mine.  We'll see what happens.   It's a long ways away, but that's the main goal.
Q.  You've played here before, you made the cut last year; how does this course play to your game and what is the biggest asset?
PAULA CREAMER:  This golf course suits my game pretty well.  It's a thinker's kind of golf course and I need to have narrow fairways and tree lines, and it's just a Tiger golf course that just suits my game well.  And a lot of course management and learning how to think on the golf course is the main thing for me.  This is a major championship golf course, so you're going to have to definitely do that.
JOEL LAMP:  Thank you, Paula.  Good luck this week.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT