WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 20, 2004
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAULA CREAMER:  This morning I didn't play very consistent.  I hit some good shots, but my managing around the golf course wasn't so good.
Q.   How wet was it out there?
PAULA CREAMER:  Pretty wet.  We could use a club length to pick up the ball.
Q.   Did you have any unplayables or shots that were sunk into the water?
PAULA CREAMER:  Casual water?
Q.   Yes.
PAULA CREAMER:  Yes, I had that twice.
Q.   Were the conditions and the way you could shoot at the pin, fly at the pin, do you feel like you let a good scoring day go by?
PAULA CREAMER:  Yeah, I do.  Like I said, I gave myself plenty of opportunities for birdie.  Today I could never have one straight putt.  Every putt was at least a foot and a half of break, and ten footers doing that, it gets kind of straining after a while.  But that's what happens and you have to deal with it really.
Q.   How would you prefer the course to play?  You probably don't like playing in the rain, but how would you prefer the course to play, the way it did the first day and in the practice round or early today or today when it's probably easier to score on it?
PAULA CREAMER:  It's tough to say because, you know, you have more chances today for birdie, but it's tough conditions out there and you have to be mentally tough.  I mean, I don't mind playing in the rain.  I like that, it's fine.

But I guess today in practice round, the greens were really firm and the fairways were firmer, so two totally different golf courses really.  You have to change all your course management that you were going to do, but I think it's tougher than that in the practice round.
Q.   Is it any big deal to you that you've played the cut in every LPGA tournament you've played this year or because you're an accomplished player, do you expect that of yourself and it's not that big of a deal to you even though others that look at you as an amateur think of it as a big accomplishment?
PAULA CREAMER:  I expect it of myself.  Coming into these tournaments, I feel that I can win, and the cut is just something that so far has been good.
Q.   Is it premature, the Wie  Creamer thing, you hear that all the time.  Is it premature or is that something you sort of like and look forward to down the road?
PAULA CREAMER:  I mean, if she's competition, she's competition.  When you win a tournament you beat everybody in the field.  If that's going to happen, we'll see.
Q.   When will you make your decision on what you're going to do?
PAULA CREAMER:  I haven't decided yet.  I don't know.  I'm going to finish up this last year of high school, and then we'll see what happens, but I haven't made a decision.  I'm still looking at colleges and thinking about turning pro.
Q.   Do you feel like you've gotten the credit you deserve even as an amateur as opposed to maybe Michelle, or do you understand that's how the game works, some people become the media darling, or not?
PAULA CREAMER:  I took 2nd in an LPGA, and it really wasn't that much of a big deal, but I guess I think it's better for me to kind of hang under the radar and every once in a while I pop up there, but I've done well this summer, and I always wanted to win an LPGA.  It was one of my goals this summer, so I can't really control how much media there is.  As long as I play golf, it all comes down to that.
Q.   Take us through your score card.
PAULA CREAMER:  I birdied 1.  I made like a ten footer.
Q.   Just tell us what you hit in, as well.
PAULA CREAMER:  Okay.  I hit a 9 iron.

I birdied 7.  I hit 6 iron     no, I hit 7 iron into 7, and I hit it to about eight feet, made birdie.

I birdied 9, the par 5.  I hit it in the bunker and then I hit it to about five feet and made it.

I birdied 13.  I made a really long putt on that hole.  It was on the fringe, and I think it was about like a 40 footer.
Q.   Do you know what you hit in?
PAULA CREAMER:  I hit 6 iron.

Then I bogeyed 15.
Q.   What happened on 15?
PAULA CREAMER:  15, I hit it in the bunker and I couldn't get it up and down.
Q.   What did you hit off the tee?
PAULA CREAMER:  5 iron.

And 18, I hit 7 iron to the green and couldn't get it up and down.
Q.   How far were your missed putts on those two holes?
PAULA CREAMER:  15 was about a seven footer, eight footer, and 18 was about a six footer.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT