U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2004
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RHONDA GLENN:  Paula, I was on the radio when all of this was going on.  What was the margin of your match?
PAULA CREAMER:  3 and 2.
RHONDA GLENN:  Okay.  Congratulations, you made it to the semis and now we go on to the next goal.
PAULA CREAMER:  Yeah.  Yeah.  It's -- today I played decent.  I could not figure out away to get the ball to stay on the green without spinning back.

My short game saved me today.  I got up-and-down a lot to save par.  My putting really worked.  But other than that, I hit the ball well, I just couldn't, like I said, couldn't get that feeling of keeping it on the green.
RHONDA GLENN:  Okay.  Questions for Paula?
Q.  Can we talk about the 14th and under the pine tree.  What were you thinking when that happened?
PAULA CREAMER:  Well, I hit a terrible 3-wood into that green.  I kind of deserved the lie that I was in.  My ball was laying against like a pine cone type thing.  And I just tried to hit it out of there, really.  If it got on green, great.  If it didn't, I knew a par was probably going to halve the hole.  And I hit a good shot the next one after that and it saved 5.
Q.  You've been in this position before, is there anything that feels different this year?
PAULA CREAMER:  No, not really.  I think I'm just feeling really confident, very comfortable out here.  I really like the golf course.  Especially when you're short game is good thinking about it, knowing these greens out here that that's also a bonus.  Knowing that my speed control's been very good.  The last couple matches.  And my chipping.  So it's -- I'm feeling very confident.
Q.  Would you say you're more confident than maybe you were last year?
PAULA CREAMER:  I would think so, yes.  Definitely.  My putting is a lot, like I said, is the main thing right now for me.  And I'm hitting the ball well and I just got to keep it in the short grass, really.
Q.  Was there a point in the match when you sensed things were starting to swing your way a little bit?  Maybe on 12 when you hit that approach shot?
PAULA CREAMER:  I think 12.  10 probably, because I went eagle and then I bogeyed and then I parred.  And so I think that was kind of -- because she won the next hole and then I won.  And at that point I think that was the turning point for myself.
Q.  What did you hit into 10 or 12, the short flop you hit up there?
PAULA CREAMER:  I hit like a small pitching wedge.  Like a little -- I have a gap between my clubs.  I hit my 54, 90 and I hit my pitching wedge like 110.  So I've been getting that distance lately and I'm starting to get pretty good at it.
Q.  Did you know, did someone indicate to you how close that was?
PAULA CREAMER:  Well, I heard a really clap, loud clapping.
Q.  I saw the smile?
RHONDA GLENN:  That's why you want the galleries out there.
PAULA CREAMER:  Exactly.  To help you know where the ball was.  But I knew the ball was pretty close.  I like that type of knock down type shot.
Q.  That seemed like it gave you a push.  You kind of jogged up the hill after that.
PAULA CREAMER:  I was pretty excited.  That green is tough.  Especially when you can't see the flag and you're hitting a little wedge shot into it and that, knowing that you don't have to putt on that green is a good feeling.
RHONDA GLENN:  You are going to face Amanda McCurdy  tomorrow.  Do you know her at all?
PAULA CREAMER:  No, I don't.  I do not know her.  I'm sure it's going to be a real good match.  I don't know how it's going right now though.  The pars or birdies or whatnot.
Q.  Was there anything about this golf course that has surprised you at all this week, based on what you knew coming in or thought coming in?
PAULA CREAMER:  Well, I knew coming in it was, the greens were tough and it was tree lined and whatnot.  But really coming out, I mean the green speeds even with the rain and everything that we have had so far, they're still very quick.  And today I knew they were fast, but even though it was raining I thought maybe they would slow down a little.  But they weren't.  The course drains really well, the fairways are pure, and the rough is thick.  It's deadly if you get in there.

It's just an all around great golf course.  And it's a USGA type setup and it's great.
Q.  Who is on your bag?  Is it someone you know or is it a --
PAULA CREAMER:  It is my boyfriend.
Q.  Okay.  Did he carry for you last year in this tournament?
PAULA CREAMER:  No, my dad did.  But he was actually supposed to leave today but the hurricane in Florida, so he, they closed the airport, so he'll be here.  Luckily.  So we're doing good.
Q.  What's his name?
PAULA CREAMER:  T A R I K.  Tarik.  His last name is Can.  C A N.
Q.  And how much is he of -- how much do you use him out there?
PAULA CREAMER:  I use him a lot.  He helps me a lot.  He keeps me comfortable.  He tells me what kind of shots he thinks I should hit.  He's very much involved, which normally it's me by myself and it's nice to have extra input.  And he's done a great job and he caddied for me in the Shop Rite and he caddied for me at the Open and it just seems to work with him.  And hopefully the next couple matches it will.
Q.  How is he different from maybe having your dad on the bag last year?
PAULA CREAMER:  Dad and boyfriend is a little different.  That's two totally different.  I get asked that.  Which one do you like better.  We're not talking about that.  But I just feel very confident with it and comfortable.  He plays golf, so he's at the University of Texas, so I know that he knows what he's doing out there.  And my dad does too, but I think it helps that he plays golf and he can visualize shots too.
RHONDA GLENN:  Is he on the golf team?
PAULA CREAMER:  He will be.  This will be his first year.  He leaves, he was supposed to go to Texas this, on today, but he can't.
RHONDA GLENN:  Now he can't go at all because you're still playing.
PAULA CREAMER:  I know.  Exactly.
Q.  A lot's been written and said about the way you dress, some of your accessories and things.  Would you say that that's kind of where your personality shines through sometimes?
PAULA CREAMER:  I guess, I'm outgoing -- I'm a girl.  And I dress, I guess, like a girl.  But I like pink my favorite color.  I always have something pink on.
Q.  What's the hat with the little -- is that a special hat?
PAULA CREAMER:  It's just a My Girl putter and it's a little logo on the Titleist hat.  There's pink inside of it, so.  It works well.
Q.  Are you thinking at all about what's going on back home with the weather?
PAULA CREAMER:  A little bit, yeah.  It's suppose to land there.  And it's a little -- I'm glad I'm not there.  But I've been through I think two of them.  So it's, I kind of know what's going to happen.  But I'm not going to be there, so.  It is okay.
Q.  Was there something that you're thinking about do you think different tomorrow based on how you played today?
PAULA CREAMER:  I don't think so.  I'm going to go hit some drivers.  My driver kind of put me in some weird spots today that normally it hasn't.  And definitely work on my putting and chipping still.  Even though today was a good day it still could have been better.  And putt, really.
RHONDA GLENN:  Okay.  Everybody all set?  Thank you, Paula.
PAULA CREAMER:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT