KIA CLASSIC
March 26, 2016
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  When you're ten shots off the lead on a Saturday morning, it's easy to go out and score, but easier said than done, and you definitely did it today.  
PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, I played really well.  I had a great run there in the middle, especially on that front nine on the last several holes and moving day, it's important.  You've just got to get yourself into contention going into Sunday.   
I played really well yesterday.  I finished awful, so today my goal was to finish a little bit better than I did yesterday.  We'll see how it sets up for going into the last day but I'm very pleased with how I made.   
 Q.  I'm sure you noticed the wind on the last couple holes and now that the leaders are going out, there's probably not too many 66s, so you're probably going to have yourself within earshot of the lead.  
PAULA CREAMER: I would think so but you never know.  These girls have been playing so well and I kind of got a little bit out of it yesterday, only shooting even par.   
But this golf course, it's all about the wind and the greens and if it continues to keep up, it's not going to be easy.  There's some tough pin placements out there and they have made it a little harder for us this year for sure.   
 Q.  The last hole, you had a great round going no matter what, but to get that one to roll in, seeing your reaction, that feels better than probably any birdie you made today?  
PAULA CREAMER: That was great.  Especially with that pin placement way back there and it wasn't ab easy putt for sure and it was probably the longest putt I made all day believe it or not.   
But it's always nice to finish with a birdie, especially in front of everybody, and I have a lot of family and friends here and it's nice to be able to go out and play well and going into tomorrow and to Easter, I feel pretty good.   
 Q.  How good does it feel, last week's finish and now getting back into contention -- we know what your goal is, the Olympics; being this early in the season to catching up ground on getting one of those available spots?  
PAULA CREAMER: Well, I have no option but to go out and play good golf if I want to be in Brazil.   
My coach, Gary, and I have worked really hard on making that hopefully realistic and putting in perspective what I need to do to get better in general just in the game of golf; but as a person, too, out on the golf course.  There's a lot of things that have changed for me and we've been working really hard.  It's nice to see some big improvements but we continue to just keep on moving forward and keep doing what we love to do.   
 Q.  And you mentioned the finish yesterday, seven-shot difference, I'm sure you had great enjoyment rolling in those birdies?  
PAULA CREAMER: I did.  It was a little bit of redemption going into those holes and quite truthfully I didn't really play that bad yesterday.  Just kind of got in my way a little bit and kind of reverted back to my old habits mentally on the golf course and I told myself, that's not going to happen anymore.   
Sometimes you need a little wake-up call for that and unfortunately it did happen yesterday, but I came back today and played strong.  When you go off kind of early in the morning, you have to go out and take advantage of it, and I did.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT