SOLHEIM CUP
September 20, 2015
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Last match of the day.  Were you paying attention to everything going on ahead of you?  
PAULA CREAMER: You know, I was trying to just really honestly focus on my match.   
 Q.  Did you know you were winning the Cup?  
PAULA CREAMER: No.  For Juli to put me out as an anchor, it was awesome.  And I am so proud of our team.  We were in there this morning and we were just so fired up and ready to get out there and just play good golf.  And this was so awesome.  I played great.  Seeing the girls and seeing the red on the board, I'm so proud of them.   
 Q.  To be a part of such a large comeback, the U.S. never came back from more than 2-down before then.  How did you rally yourselves for singles?  
PAULA CREAMER: We wanted to get out there and win, honestly, that's all we thought about it.  Unfortunately the controversy happened this morning.  We did it, we figured it out and we played awesome.  We really played good golf.   
 Q.  For you this week, to be playing such great golf and be part of so many critical matches, what did it mean to you to have that kind of week?  
PAULA CREAMER: Big.  This is big.  Everybody questioned why I was here.  And I'm just proud of myself and proud of my team for believing in me and, of course, Juli for picking me and putting me on this team.  The way it finished today, it just is icing on the cake.   
 Q.  I know you've been close with Juli.  
PAULA CREAMER: Yeah.   
 Q.  To be able to do this for her as your captain, how important is it for you guys to come away with that victory just for her?  
PAULA CREAMER: Honestly, I can't even describe to you how awesome it feels.  My first captain was Nancy Lopez, one of my role models.  Juli Inkster has been not only my biggest role model, but my partner, somebody I played so many matches with.  And to play under her and for her to choose me as a captain's pick, it doesn't get any better than that to go out and play good golf for her.  And I'm so proud of her for guiding us and leading us to this win.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT