KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 16, 2015
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Paula, how huge was you getting the momentum there from 15 on?   
PAULA CREAMER:   No, it was great.   I actually did not hit the ball very well at all.   As you can see, I have hardly any greens hit today.  
But that's what you got to be.   You have to have a good short game and be able to bail yourself out at times.  
My putter was hot and I gave myself some really good looks for par, even thought I had to save them.  
It was a crazy back nine, that's for sure.  
   
 Q.   On TV they were saying you were putting on a putting clinic out there.   Do you believe that?   
PAULA CREAMER:   Oh, I mean, I was making some great putts, just great saves, good up‑and‑downs.   I was definitely not in the best of places.   Lost my feel with my iron swing.   
I'll be going to the driving range for sure.   But that happens, and you have to be able to have a good short game to bail you out.  
   
 Q.   What do you love about this course?  
PAULA CREAMER:   Normally I like it a lot because I hit a lot of greens, but today it got the best of me.   
But it's just fun to play.   There are some really hard pin placements these last three days.   It's been a lot more difficult than in the past.  
But if you hit it good and hit it in the right spots, you'll move up the leaderboard.  
   
 Q.   Is this as well as you've putted lately today you think?  
PAULA CREAMER:   My putting has actually been pretty good this year.   It's just my ball striking.   
Today I made good putts.   Some of them were 5‑, 6‑footers, you know, shorter ones, and then I made a long one on the Par‑5, 30 feet, and then the one on 17 was about 15 feet.  
So it's just making them, which is the difference.  
Like I said, I've been working really hard on my short game because I need to.   My irons haven't been their strongest, but we're working on it.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the general difficulty of the finish, 15 through 18.   
PAULA CREAMER:   The wind today really picked up on the last several holes.   Those holes played tough, especially where the pins were.   15, I couldn't get there today in two today, so I had to layup.  
Angela hit it over the green.   That's a good birdie hole going into the last three.  
Like I said, they're making this golf course really fun with the pin placements.   You can't just fire at them.   The greens are really firm, so you have to think about where you want to put the ball.  
   
 Q.   If you hold your position you might play with the rookie, the leader.   Would you like that?   
PAULA CREAMER:   Yeah, I'll take it for sure.   My goodness gracious.   You want to have an opportunity to win.   Playing in a final group or the last two groups, that's always fun.  
It's good to have my game where I want it to be.   I have a lot of confidence, even though got to go work on some things, but this is fun.  
   
 Q.   What makes this golf course so special?  
PAULA CREAMER:   Didn't you ask me that already?   
   
 Q.   I did.   
PAULA CREAMER:   So again?   
   
 Q.   One more time.   
PAULA CREAMER:   Okay.   Well, I'll give you a different answer if you want.   
No, I think the people, the fans, they set it up really well.   The greens are firm.   I know they had a tough winter here with the rough.  
It's patchy in certain places, but you just have to play good golf all in all.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT