U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 31, 2019
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Disappointing couple of days for you?  
PAULA CREAMER: You know, I hit the ball really well.  My putter's been cold these past couple days.  When I had to convert a par, I couldn't do it.  Missed a lot of putts within eight feet.  That's been the bummer.   
But the golf course is in great shape.  It's a good test of golf.  The pins were a lot harder today, not as breezy, but there's pins you can't go for, for sure.   
 Q.  How do you try to keep yourself calm on the course, maybe some frustration does kind of set in?  
PAULA CREAMER: There's some birdie holes out there.  Even when you are kind of behind the 8 ball, per se, you know there's a couple holes down the stretch, coming up in front of you that you can have a wedge in your hand and give yourself a good opportunity.   
But this golf course, you use pretty much every club in your bag.  You have to be pretty creative with shaping shots and the greens are getting firmer for sure.  So there are birdies out there to be made.  But you got to make as many pars as you can as well.   
 Q.  You're like right on the projected cut line right now.  Do you sit there and watch the leaderboard all day and see what your weekend holds, or do you just say I'll see what happens at the end of the night?  
PAULA CREAMER: I think I'll see what happens at the end of the night.  My life is too stressful to sit and stare at a leaderboard like that, but it is what it is.  I made a birdie on the last hole but missed a 3 footer on No. 8.  As good as the birdie was to finish, I three-putted 8, which was pretty much unacceptable.  You can't do that.  I bogeyed 6 as well.  It's unfortunate, but I'm not going to sit there and stress about it.  If I get to play tomorrow, I'll be very excited.   
 Q.  The crowds, the course, does this feel like a Major Championship venue?  
PAULA CREAMER: Oh, yeah.  The crowds, the venue here, it's been awesome.  I know it's been really hot, so it's been tough for a lot of the spectators, but I feel like they're doing a good job with water.  And there is shade out there to try to get under.  It's been awesome.  It's been a good U.S. Open venue for sure.   
 Q.  As a veteran of the Tour, do you have any thoughts you want to share on Hank Haney and his sort of mindset that he expressed the other day?  
PAULA CREAMER: No.  Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT