KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 14, 2015
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Hit a good putt on the last hole.   Disappointing bogey nonetheless.   All the players look forward to coming here.   Most all of them love the golf course.   Is it a course that look forward to coming to more because it suits your game?  
PAULA CREAMER:   I do.   I really enjoy coming here.   The golf course is always in good shape.   The greens are really good right now, even after the big storm that came through.  
It's fun.   It's fun to play on.   There are some holes that you can be aggressive on and some there are some holes you have to take par on.   You got to hit the ball in the right spot, and that's what I like.   
   
 Q.   So much has been made recently of Morgan Pressel's good play and added length.   I know you out a new set of irons in the bag.   Seems to have progressed to the driver as well.   Are you hitting it further than you used to, and how good a bonus does that feel like?   
PAULA CREAMER:   Yeah, it's nice to be able to hit it a club shorter than you were hitting before, a 7‑iron versus an 8‑iron.   Yeah, a lot of it just comes from making good golf swings Agriculture well.  
We figured out a couple things with my irons, and it is nice to go down a club.   Length is huge, but you can't get too wrapped up in it.  
My game is the way I've played, fairways and greens, and I have to just take what it gives me.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel like you played today?   
PAULA CREAMER:   You know, I started off great.   I hit some awesome irons there and some really good putts to capitalize it.  
Overall I played decent.   Didn't hit as many greens as you would think I would've with my score, but I'm pleased with my first round.  
I always love coming here and playing at Kingsmill.   The fans, everybody is very supportive.   It's nice to play well.  
   
 Q.   How is the course playing today?   
PAULA CREAMER:   Course was playing tough.   Some of those pins were kind of a Sunday/Saturday pin‑like day.   Can't be really aggressive, but when you did hit good shots you were rewarded.  
   
 Q.   Seems like two of the bogeys you had, here and on nine, the putt you hit was right where you wanted to hit it.   
PAULA CREAMER:   Yeah, I mean, you can't get upset about hitting a putt where you were aiming and where you wanted to play it.   That out on the last hole, it would've been very hard for me to play it straight.   I played it left edge and hit a good putt.  
Those are things you can't get upset about.   You did what you wanted to do.   You have to move on and get ready for the next one.  
   
 Q.   How thankful were you get the birdies on 6 and 7?   
PAULA CREAMER:   Yeah, my front nine was awesome.   Good birdie on 17 to come into the 18th hole.   Hit my iron shot a little heavy, but I'll take any birdies out here when they come.   Doesn't matter how.   Scorecard doesn't have pictures.  
   
 Q.   Run through a few of your better shots and holes.   
PAULA CREAMER:   Birdied 1.   Hit it to about ten feet.  
Parred 2.  
Parred 3.   
Birdied 4.   Made a long one there, about a 30‑footer.   
On 4, par‑3, hit it to about four feet.  
5 hit it to about five feet.   
6 probably four feet.  
7, what did I do on 7?   Oh, the par‑5.   That was one was about four feet.  
Then 8 got up and down.  
And then 9, I hit my drive right.   I kind of hurt my thumb on the tee shot and kind of punched it down on the next one.   Didn't get up and down.  
Then my other birdie was on the par‑5, 15, just over the back of the green; tap‑in there.  
And then birdie on 17.  
Bogey on 18.   
   
 Q.   Feel good going into tomorrow?   
PAULA CREAMER:   Yeah, I do.   I am very pleased with where my game is at.   I have a good mental approach to things right now and I'm feeling good which my putter.   
Just trying not to get in my own way and keep doing what I been doing in my next week off last week and see what happens in the next three days.  
   
 Q.   How much stock do you put in being in contention level the first day?  
PAULA CREAMER:   Well, of course it's nice to kind of be right our there.   I haven't been playing my best golf lately, but I knew it was right around the corner.   One day doesn't make or break you, but it's nice to get a good foot in front of you going into the next three days.  
   
 Q.   You visited the naval base out here on Monday.   Can you just talk about that experience.   
PAULA CREAMER:   It was awesome just being able to meet with all the sailors.   I always try to take time to meet up with the military.   I got to fly a simulator.   Got to go on the hovercraft.   To be on George H.W. Bush was just awesome.   Pretty surreal when you're standing out there.   That thing is huge.   Pictures definitely do not do it justice.  
But just being able to give my time to the men and women that serve our country.   I have so much respect for them.   They look at me and think that I'm a role model in a sense, but they're the true role models.   
   
 Q.   You also were involved with the Dove Real Beauty luncheon Wednesday.   Was that a cool experience to be asked to be involved with that?  
PAULA CREAMER:   Oh, I mean, to win that military award presented by Dove, I was in shock.   I thought that was just so awesome.   That's the stuff that you want to have happen to you.  
Golf is my life.   That's what I do.   But the military is my passion.   To be honored with that, it's pretty special.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT