WEGMANS LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2014
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about what happened? 
PAULA CREAMER:   I came out into the parking lot and came out on the putting green, and he was sitting in a chair and I could just tell he was not doing well.   First thing I said was, okay, I'll figure it out.   It's okay.   Don't even think about coming out today, and he literally took a half hour for him to stand up and move five feet.   So he's been in the hospital all day. 
Probably the hardest thing I've had to do in a long time is come out here without him.   You feel such mixed emotions with everything.   I'm not physically hurt, but my brain is on a whole‑‑ he's my brother.   We've been together ten years and I cried.   I hate to see him in pain, and I wish I could have helped him with something.

Q.   Has he had back issues before? 
PAULA CREAMER:   His back has been bothering him a little bit the last couple months, but he does his exercises and things.   I'm hoping it's just a pinched nerve and whatnot.   But it's not something we're going to mess with.   Obviously, I'm going to go to the hospital right now to go straight and see him and see how he's doing.   It's unfortunate.   You never think something like that's going to happen, but it's a good lesson for everybody, really.

Q.   I remember I think it was at Cherry Hills he was watching you on a scooter?
PAULA CREAMER:   Yeah, he broke his ankle at Kingsmill. 

Q.   Is that the last time you've been without him? 
PAULA CREAMER:   Yeah, that was '05, my rookie year, so this was an experience to say the least.   But obviously I didn't play great, but my expectations weren't super high going into it.   Still I can hit the golf ball where I want to and that kind of thing, but it's tough.   I think it's harder mentally if you have that than a physical injury.

Q.   How much is the wind a factor? 
PAULA CREAMER:   It's more routine.   It's more being comfortable and picking targets.   I'm not quite hitting it the way I normally do, so he and I even have been kind of struggling with things let alone bringing in one of my best friends to be on the bag and trying to figure that out.   But it was playing hard.   We could still make a lot of birdies out there at the same time.   I just did not play good golf.

Q.   This isn't the way he wants to end this run, you like it here and the fans love you here.   I know they're going to be disappointed.   Can you talk about one last time what this community has meant to you? 
PAULA CREAMER:   I've never kept it a secret how much I love coming here.   Even today I must have heard a hundred times keep your head up.   So many people saw what happened on the putting green and how distraught I was.   My dad is carrying the bag around for me and all.   Literally Meghan showed up on the first tee.   We met right there and we went. 
But the fans have been so supportive of my golf.   For a place for this to happen, I guess in hindsight, it was a blessing because they kind of just motivated me to get around the course and try to take my mind off of what happened this afternoon early on.

Q.   (Indiscernible) I hate to mention it, but it was an amazing feat that went for a long time.   Did that enter your mind today? 
PAULA CREAMER:   Coming down the stretch, yeah, of course.   Obviously, would have never wanted it to be like this.   I don't mind‑‑ obviously, I mind, but it's different if you just don't go out and play good golf.   But if something happens, an extra variable you add to it, it's tough. 
But I easily could have withdrawn and pulled out, but there is no way.   I'm a fighter.   I'm a grinder, and I birdied the last hole, and I'm never going to quit.   It was an awesome run.   It's unfortunate it happened this way, but some things just have to come to an end at times. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT