JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 22, 2014
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:     Like to welcome Paula Creamer into the interview room.   Congratulations, a great 8‑under par round today.   Moving day seemed to be really good to you.   Kind of what was your outlook heading into the round and what seemed to be working well for you to be able to shoot so low today.
PAULA CREAMER:   I have hit the ball great this week.   I've given myself so many opportunities it's kind of ridiculous.   I just didn't put my best the last two days, and then today, I still‑‑ first five holes, I gave myself plenty of opportunities and then I started to kind of feel it get a rhythm with my putting and then I seem to make those 9‑, 10‑footers. 
I gave myself so many opportunities, but they are in that range of, you know, from 8 to 12 feet and you just‑‑ it's hard to make all of those, and then when you are constantly giving them, you tend to kind of try to change things, and I really just tried to stick to what Colin and I worked on last night after I finished playing.   I 3‑putted the hole yesterday on 18 from about six feet and that just did not settle well with me and I wanted to come out and play well today. 
The MODERATOR:     During that stretch, it seemed like every time I refreshed the scoreboard there was another birdie.   When you get into that sort of streak, what is the mentality?   Are you just feeding off that previous birdie.
PAULA CREAMER:   Yeah, I played well enough to shoot 59 today easy, and it's one of those things that I didn't but it was out there and wasn't just making long putts or anything like that and I was just making 6‑ or 7‑footers and giving myself chances.   But I like this golf course, and I've always played pretty well here.   If you get hot out here, you can keep it going.   There's some good holes that you just have to par and you have to take advantage of the shorter holes on the par 5s to make birdies. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
PAULA CREAMER:   Maybe somewhere early in the front nine, I was getting really handsy with my putter and I needed to use my big muscles, I was popping hitting it instead of using my‑‑ I always try to putt with it locked in one place like a triangle.   I lost that the last two days. 
So it was just a constant reminder to keep my hands forward and be more solid and roll the ball and keep the ball rolling, because it was pretty bad the last few days, it was hopping around and that was just something that we found that clicked and it worked. 

Q.   Were the pin placements easier today?   Why the low scores? 
PAULA CREAMER:   Just putts and making birdies.   The golf course has played different than what it has in the past.   I don't think the greens have been quite the same.   The last couple years they have been sharp and fast, and now you have to give them a bit more of a hit and desert golf, you don't normally do that.   I think we've been kind of thrown off. 
It took till Saturday to I think realize that unfortunately.   You're just giving yourself opportunities, and when you're starting the day at minus four and the leader is at minus 13, you have nothing to lose.

Q.   When you are six, seven, eight back, do you try to be aggressive‑‑
PAULA CREAMER:   Both, either way, you just stick to your game plan, but in this situation, you have to be more aggressive or else you're just going to be in the middle of the pack, and that's not what this‑‑ this golf course has always been low numbers and you have to know that's the one you don't make those birdies and you have those opportunities, you feel like you're giving shots back to the field on this golf course in this case. 

Q.   What happened on 16? 
PAULA CREAMER:   Bogey on 16, for some reason I just keep hitting it right in that right bunker.   It's a 7‑wood off of a tee.   It's one of the easiest holes on this golf course and I chunked it out into the other bunker and it was a very, very hard bunker shot to a back right pin.   I just hit it down the ridge and 2‑putted for bogey, so it was the tee shot into the right bunker and I did it yesterday, too. 

Q.   What do you expect to be leading at the end of the day?
PAULA CREAMER:   I have no idea.   I haven't even‑‑ how many holes have they played?   Maybe 18, 19.   I'm going to have to play good tomorrow, too, to give it a shot but you never know what happens. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT