JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 20, 2014
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Would it give you less problems do you think if you guys did go first?  
PAULA CREAMER:   Probably.   I mean I guess that's the only variable.   They're saying that the divots will be the same, but the divots aren't the same.   I mean we're not‑‑ come on.   It's definitely not, especially in those run‑offs.   I know you putt a lot.   I've never played there, but I know you putt a lot from the sides, but still, I mean hey, people are going to chip, they're going to practice, and by the time our Sunday comes, that thing's going to have three weeks of played on.  
   
 Q.   Last thing on this.   Mike's answers to why women will go first is agronomics, the grass.   Does that make sense?  
PAULA CREAMER:   Yes.   I mean I understand what he's saying, yes, but at the same time, we don't necessarily care about the grass and that kind of stuff.   We just want a major championship golf course played the way that it should be played, and we don't really know how it's going to be played now after the men, what if they get a lot of rain, this and that, things.   There's so many other variables, so I really honestly, I haven't tried to give it too much attention, just because it is what it is and we can't change it.  
   
 Q.   Paula, thank you.   How did your round go?  
PAULA CREAMER:   I shot 2‑under today, doubled 8, so not feeling so great right now, but you know, I played well.   I gave myself a lot of opportunities and hit some good putts here and there, but just one bad swing on that tee shot and hit it in the hazard, and it was just kind of unfortunate over there.   I should have salvaged a bogey, but I made double.  
   
 Q.   We were talking to Lydia.   She came in at 5‑under.   I'm sure you've played with her at some point?  
PAULA CREAMER:   Uh‑huh.  
   
 Q.   As a 16‑year‑old, what are your impressions of her on the golf course?   I mean does she act at all 16 on the course?  
PAULA CREAMER:   No.   I mean age is just a number.   You see Juli out here playing, too, and you would never that she's 52 years old.   So no, I mean Lydia is a great player.   She obviously has proven herself time in, time out and she's a really good putter and somebody who has a lot of confidence in their game.  
   
 Q.   When they waive the age requirement, do you think if a player is ready, they're ready, no matter the age?   As you said, it's just a number?  
PAULA CREAMER:   No.   I feel like you have to obviously have a good team around you, especially when you're that young.   It's a difficult life out here.   You have to grow up very fast, and I was 18 and I couldn't imagine doing it at 16, and I've been lucky enough to have the same everything, same caddy, same manager, same‑‑ you name it.   
And you know, I think it is hard to transition, but if you have a good solid head on your shoulders, I think you can do it.   And I don't have to make that decision.   
   
 Q.   So you were kind of cruising when you got to the 8th tee.   
PAULA CREAMER:   Uh‑huh.  
   
 Q.   What happened on that tee shot?  
PAULA CREAMER:   I hit it right into the hazard.  
   
 Q.   Do you know why?  
PAULA CREAMER:   Yeah.   It was a bad swing.   (Laughs).  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT