HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 2, 2014
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Never been a more dramatic playoff?  
PAULA CREAMER:   I'm shaking.   Oh, my gosh, this has been such a long time coming and I wouldn't be here today if it wasn't for Colin, my caddie, my best friend, he's been there through it all.   
We've had such a good last seven months working on what we've been doing and obviously a bit of luck going in on that one.   Aza hit a great shot in there and she's such a great competitor, as well.   When that happens, there's nothing you can do.   
   
 Q.   You must have had nerves of steel in regulation play.   
PAULA CREAMER:   I did.   I definitely tested myself coming down the stretch, that's for sure.   I had to make a bunch of 6‑ , 7‑footers, but I just kept grinding and kept on just doing what Colin and I were planning on doing.   And you know, it was fun playing with Morgan and Teresa.   It was nice playing with one of your best friends and kind of kept me calm out there.   
You know, it was, it was a grind all day and like I said, it's been a long time coming.   
   
 Q.   You went for the green in two, can you talk us through that?  
PAULA CREAMER:   It reminded me of a putt at Solheim Cup that I had.   Just get it in the right spot it would fall down‑‑ but I could stand there all day long and putt that.   I finally hit the fairway in the playoff‑‑ I was in a playoff a couple years ago and I refused to go to eight, nine more holes so I was going to try to end it.   
   
 Q.   You were on the phone a second ago, who were you trying to call?   
PAULA CREAMER:   I was calling my mom and dad.   They have obviously seen it all.   Derek was at the second one‑‑ we're not married yet so my dad would have been upset if I called Derek first.   It's pretty neat when you can share it with everybody.   
Whatever call it was‑‑ I called them actually before the playoff, too, and they just said, stay calm, be happy you and don't have to prove anything.   Just go out there and play some golf.   
   
 Q.   Good to be back in the winner's circle again?  
PAULA CREAMER:   Oh, it feels so good, oh, my goodness, I can't tell you how good it really does feel.   This is a huge win and it's a lot of hard work.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT