MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 13, 2018
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Probably not your best stuff today, or how did you feel?  
PAULA CREAMER: You know, the front nine I could not find a fairway or a green, and my short game kind of bailed me out.  And then figured some things out on the back nine.  But two birdies on 17 and 18 might not be quite enough, but just been really working hard on my golf swing and under pressure I'm kind of learning a little bit more about it, but it's great to be back in Toledo.  I love this golf course, and first time I've been here since the changes, and it's really good.   
 Q.  How tough is this course stacked up to the rest that you guys compete at on the LPGA Tour and obviously being 1-over today?  
PAULA CREAMER: Well, I think that this golf course when it's firm like this, it plays actually a lot trickier than what people give it credit for.  The greens are just rock hard in the afternoon, and it's almost like a British Open in a sense.  I think that's the defense of the golf course, and if you're above the hole here or if you miss a green, it's really difficult to get up-and-down, and you have to kind of lag putts if you get it past it, so really course management, even though it's one of the shorter courses that we play, really it's a premium if you miss fairways.   
 Q.  When you have a later tee time like this, how often are you looking at the leaderboard, the projected cut lines, things like that?  
PAULA CREAMER: You know, I'm not really into that right now.  I can't control everybody else.  I can only control myself, especially with all the things going on with my changes and whatnot.  It's just extra pressure that you put on yourself that's not necessary.  So for me it's just going out there and sticking to my plan no matter what happens.  Obviously I knew I needed to make some birdies, but you can't force things.  That's when you get into trouble.   
 Q.  Lastly from me, how do you mentally prepare for a round like this, knowing that you could face the cut line?  I know it's early after round 1, but going into today, what was your mental preparation?  
PAULA CREAMER: Like I said, just to keep doing what I'm doing.  I've been putting actually a lot better lately.  I haven't made as many putts, but I've been hitting really good putts, which is good.  If I gave myself some opportunities, I knew I would make some.  However, my ball-striking wasn't quite as good as it has been, but it is what it is, and like I said, we'll see what happens with the cut, but it's only getting harder.  It is a birdie-birdie finish with 17 and 18, but you never know.   
 Q.  You've had a lot of young girls following you around watching you today.  What advice do you have for women and girls that are looking to get into golf?  
PAULA CREAMER: Just to embrace the game.  It's such a fun thing to do, whether it's with your family or your friends.  I played the game, I started golf just to go out with my dad, and here I am 14 years later as a professional.  It's just nice when you get to go out and enjoy it, don't put too much pressure on yourself, and just embrace the sport and travel all over the world.  I think the biggest thing is knowing that it's a struggle game, it's a game of patience, but it helps you in life, too.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT