SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 10, 2013
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Solid round, you got off to a very good start.   Talk about the round, just good start?  
PAULA CREAMER:   Yeah, I played really well.   I hit the ball actually very nicely.   I've been working on my swing these last couple weeks and taking into the tournament that I was a little unsure about where it was going.   But I continued doing what we were working on and it fell through or continued to be strong.  
   
 Q.   15, take us through that?   
PAULA CREAMER:   I hit a good shot.   It was just the wrong shot at the wrong time.   Just maybe wrong number in the sense of what we calculated with the wind and stuff like that.   But you can't be wrong or mad when you hit the shot that you wanted to.   You know, the big positive thing was I came back and birdied 17 and 18.  
But things like that happen, unfortunately.   You want them not to happen, but it's a good hole.   It's a good little par‑3 that you have to hit a good shot.   I'm just really in between clubs on that side.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the closing stretch just 15, 16, 17, and then 18 obviously an exciting hole.   How that might produce excitement and obviously close out strong here?   Talk about that closing stretch?  
PAULA CREAMER:   That par‑3, 15 is a really good hole no matter where they put the pin.   The 16, the par‑5, they move that box around a lot.   It's a birdie hole, but you have to hit a good city shot and good second shot.   When they move it up, it obviously benefits the longer hitters.   They can get there in two.   17, I like that hole.   It's a good one.   I know they're going to tuck the pins here and there.   And then 18, it's all about the tee shot.   It will be a good tee shot, and then you have a shorter iron into this green.   The greens are getting firmer.   They're bouncing a lot.   Hopefully we don't have (Indiscernible).  
   
 Q.   Yeah, talk about the conditions.   I haven't asked anybody, wet, dry?   They said dry coming into it?  
PAULA CREAMER:   I think the greens are probably the best I've ever seen here.   They've gotten some sand and some top dressing on them.   But they're rolling really pure.   Hit a good putt and it goes in.   Fairways are a little bit wet.   Little surprised with that since we haven't had any rain.   It was playing really nice.  
   
 Q.   Good.   We talked about your vacation yesterday?  
PAULA CREAMER:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Think that was something that really helped you come in and refresh after a tough stretch?   
PAULA CREAMER:   I do.   You know, there is a lot going on in the middle of our schedule.   It was really nice to just get away after Evian and just ship my clubs home with my parents and had a great vacation in Italy.   I had two good weeks off.   Went and saw the eye doctor and got new contacts.   I feel like I can see the world in a different light now.   
But it was really nice to be able to be home too.   I've just worked really hard with David my coach.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT