SAFEWAY CLASSIC PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
August 28, 2013
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PAULA CREAMER:   I am, I am tired but this is a great golf course for me so I'm going to try and do my best out here and get some good night's sleep and get ready to play.   
But it is, it's been a long 3 weeks.   (Inaudible) but it is what it is and we kind of just got to (inaudible).  
   
 Q.   Coming off the Solheim Cup last week as a team competition, you have International Crown coming up next year in its inaugral year.   How excited are you to have another opportunity to compete for your country?  
PAULA CREAMER:   I mean, there's nothing better than that.   There's nothing better than representing your country.   Every athlete, that's something that they want to do.   I'm very much into being an American and whatnot and being patriotic, but any time you get to wear red, white and blue it's (inaudible).   
   
 Q.   I know you're quite the competitor, but pair you with Stacy Lewis, Cristie Kerr and Angela Stanford.   I mean, that is quite the team you have there?  
PAULA CREAMER:   It is.   Right now that would be awesome, it would be fun.   Any time you get to play in a team atmosphere, it's completely different.   Since we have Solheim experience, that makes it even better.  
   
 Q.   We've had fighter jets flying over us all week this week.   I know you did something pretty special yesterday.   Can you explain what happened?  
PAULA CREAMER:   I had about nine soldiers and Air Force men come out and watch me play nine holes.   (Inaudible) from the base.   It's really great to just give back to the military.   I come from a military family and there's so many special ties, especially with my foundation.   It's nice to be able to give them the opportunity to come out here and watch the golfers as well.   It's pretty cool.   They brought some of their daughters out.   They're able to come back on the weekend.  
   
 Q.   Could you talk about the differences between 72 holes and 54 holes?  
PAULA CREAMER:   Well, I mean, pretty much every event we play nowadays is four‑day.   It's a little bit better, (inaudible) and rise to the occasion for four‑day.   Threedays you have to start off really sharp, just because if you get a little bit behind it's a lot harder to catch up.   
I love four‑day events, always have.   Three‑day events are fun, but it's a better golf tournament really in fourdays.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
PAULA CREAMER:   I try to as much as I can.   I think it's pretty cool to give back to junior golf.   They are the future to have LPGA and just golf in general.   I've always found that I love kids.   I love giving back, like I said, especially to the First Tee (inaudible).   It's just (inaudible).   We do have great sponsors and they allow me to do that kind of thing.   If it helps oneperson out there and (inaudible).  
   
 Q.   You have talked in years past here about (inaudible) and about childhood idols.   You are obviously her idol now.   How important is that to you?  
PAULA CREAMER:   I mean, it's kind of hard for me to embrace it.   I came out here when I was 18years old.   I was playing against Mika a lot and (inaudible).   The first couple of years I was (inaudible) and I was so excited to be out there.   To have this influence, to be able to pick up a club and to realize that I have an effect on someone else, I can't quite grasp it.   I'm still learning so much.   
Hopefully I can be a help.   I love what I do.   I take a big pride in coming out here and trying to conduct myself well.   It's a great game that we have and I just hope that I can‑‑ whether it's a (inaudible) or whatever it is, to get girls involved in this game is (inaudible).  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
PAULA CREAMER:   I was about 17.   I played a bunch of the sponsor exemption events in the summer of my junior year before my senior year.   I played pretty well and almost won (inaudible).  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT