CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 22, 2013
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Good afternoon, everyone.   We'd like to welcome Rolex Rankings No.11 Paula Creamer into the interview room.   Congratulations, a great 4‑under par round to get this event started.   Take me through the day, what was really working well for you out there.   
PAULA CREAMER:   I hit the ball really well.   I started off with a bogey on the 1st hole but kept giving myself some chances after that and kind of settled down into the round.   8:15 is an early tee time, so my body wasn't quite awake when we were teeing off.   But I finished really strong, started to make some good putts and hit it close.  
THE MODERATOR:   You were talking about feeling good about your game coming into this week.   Are you starting to see all the changes you've been making really come into fruition?   
PAULA CREAMER:   Yeah, a lot of it is confidence and just repeating it over and over again.   Like I said, I hit the ball well last week, and I've been playing well in the last couple of months, it's just putting four good days together.   Things are starting to come around, and it's just a matter of making a couple key putts out there, and we'll see.  
THE MODERATOR:   We were talking with some of the players yesterday about the condition of the golf course.   Karrie Webb actually said it's one of the best conditioned golf courses she's seen all year.   How is it playing out there?   
PAULA CREAMER:   I agree with that.   The golf course has some bounce to the fairways and the rough is really thick, so you miss fairways and you're pretty much in trouble.   You've got to figure out how to salvage a 4.   And the greens are great.   It really is a good test of golf out here, and you've got to be able to put the ball in the right spot.   If not, it's going to be a long day out there.   
   
 Q.   When you look up at the top of the leaderboard and you see Lydia Ko up there leading again after she became the youngest winner last year, you guys have seen her out at a number of events, but how impressive is her game overall?  
PAULA CREAMER:   I haven't even looked at a leaderboard.   I don't even know who's leading.  
   
 Q.   She's tied for the lead with Angela.   
PAULA CREAMER:   I think that's great.   Like I said in the press yesterday, in here, she's a really good player.   She's solid.   She's a good putter.   She's actually a great putter, and that's what this golf course kind of takes is creativity, imagination with the greens, and I would expect to see her name up on the board.   It treats her well, this course.  
   
 Q.   Did the course play any different today than it did in the practice rounds?   
PAULA CREAMER:   Yes and no.   The fairways are getting pretty bouncy.   I didn't play in the morning here the last couple of days.   I've been pretty much late afternoons, so I've been playing it a little bit firmer.   The mornings are cold here, so the ball doesn't go as far.   So these two days, Thursday, Friday, it's kind of a key because everybody is on opposite waves, and come the weekend you'll be pretty much the same tee times.   But they are; like I said, the fairways are a little bit bouncy, and the greens are pretty receptive, so you can't‑‑ it's not too hard coming into them.   
   
 Q.   Did you make any really long or really short birdies?  
PAULA CREAMER:   At 14, par‑5, I hit it just in front of the green and got up‑and‑down, made about a four‑and‑a‑half footer.   
15, hit it to about, geez, a foot and a half.   
And then 16, made about a nine‑, ten‑footer.   But had good looks even on 17 and 18 coming down both, maybe eight feet, nine feet on 17 and 18.   So I started to hit the ball really well.  
   
 Q.   On 15 what did you hit in there?  
PAULA CREAMER:   It was 9‑iron from 125, a little 9.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT