SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
June 9, 2018
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How great does it feel to put yourself back in position heading into tomorrow?
PAULA CREAMER: No, it feels really good.  It's been kind of a crazy year for me, but been working really hard with my coach and with Kevin.  It's nice to be able to make a lot of birdies.  I don't think I've made this many birdies in like the last three months, so it was good to actually have it all in one round.
Q. Anything specific you're working as far as your game goes on with your coach to get into this position?
PAULA CREAMER: Oh, everything from putting to chipping to bunker to my driver.  All of it.
After my surgery we just really wanted to break everything down and basically start over again.  Now that I'm strong and healthy I can do a lot more things with my golf swing.  I'm able to put the ball -- I'm in a better position with my hands and my wrists.
It's not easy taking it from a driving range to a tournament.  I don't know, for some reason I've always played really well here.  I've felt good.
Went home after the Open for a couple days and worked on some really good things.  Just taking what the golf course gives me.
Q. What are the characteristics of this golf course you like the most?
PAULA CREAMER: I think the feel, the atmosphere around it.  Everybody here is so supportive.  Every hole I'm at they're all rooting for me and cheering me on.  I've been here for so many years it feels like I'm a hometown girl in a sense.
But, you know, I'm good with my wedges.  I am driving the ball well.  Irons have been really strong lately.  If I give my putter a chance, that's kind of what this golf course is all about:  not missing in the wrong places.
Q. What's the key for tomorrow?  Is it controlling nerves?
PAULA CREAMER: I think so.  I mean, just still continuing to keep doing what I'm doing with my swing; not do anything different really.  It's another day out on the golf course.
I know last year when I came in, kind of similar situation.  I mean, I don't know what's going to happen this afternoon, but I'll be within four or five of the lead.
So I put a little bit too much pressure on myself and didn't quite perform the way I wanted to on Sunday.  I know that going into it.  Just go out and have fun and enjoy it.
I had a great time playing with the two girls, Marina and Jin.  It was fun.  I want to do that again tomorrow.
Q. Did you leave here last year with more positives, though?
PAULA CREAMER: I did.  I think this time last year was kind of a turning point just with my confidence.  Being back in contention is obviously something that I want, but this definitely made a turning point for me last year, so we'll see if it does it again this year.
Q. In a way was the surgery, not a relief, but just to get it out of the way and make that decision and basically try to fix the problem rather than try to muddle through it?
PAULA CREAMER: I mean, nobody ever wants to have surgery.  It's the last resort.  I tested all avenues you could imagine.  It's the greatest decision I've made so far.
My doctor, Dr. Hunt, did my thumb surgery as well.  I told him, Just give me the Rolls Royce treatment.  Just make sure it's done, whatever we do.  I can't afford to have another surgery.
Because of that, that's why we're making all these swing changes.  You know, you do what have to do.  Sitting out six months is beyond one of the hardest things I've ever had to do, but you got to do what you got to do for your career.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT