RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 2, 2013
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Are you disappointed with that?   
PAULA CREAMER:   Not really.   I felt like I gave one away on 17 and didn't make birdie on the par5, but other than that, I played really well.   I hit a lot of good golf shots.   On that back nine, it's hard.   When you make that turn to come around back into the wind right‑to‑left, it's playing difficult.   So you take some on the front and just trying to coast on it on the back.   
   
 Q.   Most difficult nine holes of the year?  
PAULA CREAMER:   I don't know about most difficult of the year, I think because there's such a big difference from the morning to the afternoon today with the tee times, that played a huge part with just making birdies and pars out there.   But it's just a pretty difficult back nine, coming into the stretch of the last six holes, those are hard.   But the good thing is, tomorrow we're all around the same time and we're going to go through the same conditions.  
   
 Q.   Do you enjoy that challenge?  
PAULA CREAMER:   Oh, I love it.   I love the harder, the better, the wind, just everything about it.   There's just so much thinking going on.   We sleep good at night after days like this, and that's what a British Open is about.   You want to be able to shape the ball [and you|you and] want to be able to think about different things, and yesterday was kind of a fluke.   
   
 Q.   Do you pay any attention to the leaderboard or how things stand or how far back you are?   
PAULA CREAMER:   Not really, not today, just because I knew the morning played a bit easier and there were some birdies to be made early on, and just on the back nine, like I said.   The front nine, you can make birdies.   It's still very difficult, but you're having short irons in.   On the back nine, you're hitting 5‑woods and four rescues, things like that.   But I wasn't a very good leaderboard watcher today, but I will be tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT