RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 1, 2013
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You walked off the 18th hole with a pretty big smile on your face, 68.   Are you happy with that?  
PAULA CREAMER:   Yeah, I am.   I was kind of laughing at my putt actually more than just the round.   But I played really well, I played solid.   Still had a lot of opportunities out there.   A little bit different wind today than the practise rounds, so the golf course played different.   
I'll take it, for sure, first day of the British Open, without a doubt.  
   
 Q.   There was a little bit of rain early on in the round, but not a lot of wind to speak of; did you feel like these were the conditions to really make a score?  
PAULA CREAMER:   I did.   When you wake up at 4.00 this morning for a 6.52 tee time, you don't really know what to expect, but it was.   On the range, I had some rain.   I really only brought out my umbrella once, but then again, I'm a person that it has to be just dumping rain for me to even use an umbrella.  
You could score, for sure.   The pins were accessible.   But, you know, you'll take 4‑under rain or shine out here.  
   
 Q.   We talked about opening round in Toledo a couple of weeks ago and the fact that you had‑‑ you were playing well; how important was it to shoot 68 today?  
PAULA CREAMER:   Oh, I think it was very important.   It says a lot when you get off to the right start.   I have a lot of confidence in the game read now.   Golf courses like this really rely on a team.   
And Colin, my caddie, he's so good out there.   He knows every number known to man and I really trust his targets.   If I'm going to hit it‑‑ he says it's going to be good and a lot of it is the luck of the bounce, but it is a good start to the right direction.   
   
 Q.   He's going to be asking for a raise, so you'd better watch out?  
PAULA CREAMER:   No, it's important, I've been working really hard and obviously it's been a challenge the last couple of years out there.   It hasn't been terrible, but we've stuck together, and it's team work.   It's not all about me.   It's about both of us.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT