PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 12, 2012
Michael Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You played well the first day, as well.   
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:   I played better yesterday than today.   Yesterday was a real tough test of golf it was blowing 20, 25 knots out there.   It was tough.   You're hitting driver, 2‑irons, 3‑irons into par 4s, and even on 7, I hit driver, 3‑wood.   
So it was a tough last couple of days, but it's nice to finally put a few good scores together.   Feel pretty confident right now.   Like I said before, I'm working pretty hard with my coach, Jonathan, now the last three or four months and it's really paid off.  
   
 Q.   That first day with those winds, which were formidable for some players, but you're right up on that board and today a whole raft of pars and the birdies came.   
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:   I hit it close on several occasions on the front nine and didn't convert them unfortunately.   But I stayed patient and holed a 25‑footer on No. 11 and missed a bunch of putts once again on 12, 14, 15, 16.   But anyway, that's golf.   You've got to just focus on the future and I'll focus on tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   I take it when conditions are somewhat easier than the first day that could get a little bit frustrating.   
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:   Yeah, that's right.   Yesterday was a great test of golf, like I said before, and today, I think the wind is going to increase the next couple of hours and will make it hard for the afternoon guys.   We had it yesterday.   It all evens out in the wash.  
   
 Q.   Like your position on the leaderboard?  
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:   Yeah, I do.   I'll be two or three shots after two rounds.   It's been a long time since I've been in contention.   It feels nice again to be teeing it up there amongst the leaders and amongst the great players.  
   
 Q.   I gather it's the first time two cuts in a row for a long time.   
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:   It's been a long time, yes, it's been at least three or four years.   I'm not counting.   I just want to focus on this week.  
   
 Q.   We have spoken recently and there have been a lot of promising signs.   
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:   Yes, it has, it's been very promising, but I've been very inconsistent.   That's one thing I'm trying to strive for is to be more consistent, and I think it's just a matter of working on what I'm working on the last two or three months will hopefully pay off the next couple of days.  
   
 Q.   Are you enjoying golf again?  
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:   Yes, finally, one thing I've been working on mentally is just enjoy the game.   It's only a game of golf, and just you're out there playing and if you play well, it's a bonus and if not, it's no big deal.  
   
 Q.   Presumably that's hard to do when you've been right at the top of the game and you've had the inconsistencies, but at the same time you have to remember why you actually love this game.   
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:   Yeah, just try and peel it back to when you started playing as a kid and just enjoy it.   Just enjoy it, and the results will come.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT