IRISH OPEN PRESENTED BY DISCOVER IRELAND
July 28, 2011
Michael Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Going along nicely and suddenly 5-under for four holes, what's going on?  
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: Bit of luck. Played great all day really to be honest with you. Hit it close a couple of times. Missed a few opportunities, but yeah, got it going and hit it close on I think 16, the par 5 there, for two, about ten feet, eight feet and holed that and holed the next putt. Got lucky on the last hole twice.   
 Been playing nicely over the last probably four or five weeks. Missed the cut by one last week in Sweden but still played nicely. So I'm very happy the way I'm playing and putting better now.  
  
  Q. You told us in France that things were starting to turn around for you. What's made the difference?  
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: It's a lot of hard work. I changed my swing completely in December last year, working with new coaches now. And that's really worked a lot. Being patient with it, and also I think the inspiration that big D gave me a few weeks ago winning. He's 42; I'm 42. He won a major. It's definitely a motivational point for me to go out there and play, still play and compete. What he did two weeks ago was definitely inspirational.  
  
  Q. Past champion of this Irish Open; how special is this tournament to you?  
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: The crowds are fantastic, whether you're Irish or New Zealand or Australian, they all support you. I think it's a wonderful week for everyone to come and play here. I know the boys lovely playing in Ireland, very hospitable people, and I love the Guinness, too.   
  
  Q. This golf course suit you?  
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: I think so. It's not a long golf course. You need to hit a lot of 3-woods or heaven woods off the tees. It's not a long golf course so kind of suits me, I'm not exactly long out there. So I'm putting well, which I'm hitting the ball quite nicely, hopefully the next three days will be quite nice.   
 I've won twice in Ireland, the Irish Open and also The European Open, so I tend to do well in Ireland. I think the people here are very supportive of my golf, and also very hospitable. And every time I come to Ireland, I've had lots of fun here, and today was a prime example where I played great from tee-to-green and holed a few crucial putts toward the end of my round, and hence I'm three shots behind the lead.  
  
  Q. The back nine was superb, four birdies and an eagle and just the one bogey?  
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: I played great the back. I played really well actually the first nine, ten holes, but holed nothing, really, and got the putter going finally. I've been struggling over the putter the last couple of weeks, so I've changed putters today, this morning, and it seemed to work.  
  
  Q. What are you using?   
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: It's the 2-Ball Odyssey Callaway putter, so it's helped me a lot.  
  
  Q. That seems to be the main difference today between an average enough score and a very good score is the ability to read those greens today?  
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: They are tough. I must say, they are very, very tough to read, a lot of subtle breaks on the greens, and you can hardly see some of the breaks. So I found it hard to read the greens the first couple of times, and I had to really focus even more so on reading the putts on the last nine holes, and it came up trumps. But yeah, the greens are definitely difficult to read.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT