ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 1, 2011
Michael Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 72, 1-over par yesterday, what was the difference in your play today?
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: Pretty similar I think. Just holed a few more putts today. Been playing great for the last couple of days. Hit the ball fantastic which is great for me, struggling off the tee, but these last couple of days have been great off the tee. So that's half the battle for me right now is the tee ball. 
 Callaway made me a new driver, RAZR Hawk driver, which helped me a lot the last couple of days, and it's nice to be up there in contention with a chance. It's been a while. Too long.

 Q. It has been a while. How hard has that struggle been, to be at the top of the game, win the U.S. Open and then suddenly you're hardly making a cut. 
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: Well, you really appreciate your good play more. Yes, it's been a struggle over the last four or five years, a big struggle for me. But it's there somewhere, and today, the last couple of days, even last woke on Friday I played 5-under on Friday, the second round of the BMW tournament. 
 So it's all about momentum, confidence and then the combination of those two things together, and it made me play well this week is basically patience, a lot of hard work and just don't give up. 

 Q. Talking about patience, what has stopped you from giving up? There have been times when you've said, is this worth carrying on?
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: Just talking to friends of mine, very close friends, family. I talked to Steve Redgrave about six months ago, seven months ago. Once you do it, you know you've got it. 
 So I've done it five or six years ago at the U.S. Open and won nine times, eight times on The European Tour, so I know I've got the goods to win on Tour. Just keep on believing really.

 Q. What advice did Steve Redgrave give you?
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: Well, he's obviously an amazing athlete and what he's done in rowing is incredible, and he said to me that for every gold medal he had won, he had to work even harder and harder and harder. That's one thing I didn't do after winning the U.S. Open, I took my foot off the accelerator, had some fun, and suffered the consequences. 
 I had to really knuckle down and I have been the last six months working out a lot with my trainer. I'm working with a new coach now, Gary Edwin who is based in the Gold Coast in Australia and Luke Ringrose, who is based in Lingfield. Working very, very hard the last year really and finally it's all paid off. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT