COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 25, 2013
Michael Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MICHAEL CAMPBELL:   Once again, 4‑under after ten holes and just couldn't hole a putt on the last eight holes.   Holed a chip, but not a putt. 
    So, yes, it's been frustrating, but, hey, you know, it's just one of those things where at this time last year, I was packing my games and going home.   So can't complain about that.   Being three shots behind with one round to go, it's definitely nice to be in this situation.

Q.   There are so many positives, aren't there?
    MICHAEL CAMPBELL:   Of course, of course.   It's just nice to be out here and having some fun at the same time and maybe have a chance of winning.

Q.   And by a strange feeling, you said the frustration, is it self a positive, knowing what you are chasing and knowing what you can achieve now? 
    MICHAEL CAMPBELL:   Yes, I think when a title is definitely reachable, expectations are obviously quite high and I want to do well this weekend or tomorrow, and if I don't, no big deal, you've got next week.   All I can do is just control my own game, control my own destiny and see what happens. 

Q.   Given this form through, is it Portugal, Hong Kong, here; does it just make you puff out your chest that little bit more, the confidence, the belief?   You actually seem to be just genuinely happier. 
    MICHAEL CAMPBELL:   That's really one thing I've been working the last six months is just smile after each round of golf, whether it's a good one or a bad one, and it's working so far.   It's really simple stuff. 
    But yeah, look, six months ago, I was desperate.   I think I made two cuts in about two years, 18 months or something, and now I have a chance of winning a couple times last year and maybe tomorrow.

Q.   This is back with your coach actually saying, peel away that on I don't know? 
    MICHAEL CAMPBELL:   Yeah, and that's what we are doing right now, we are just going back to what is working and what worked before, and going back with my coach, Jonathan Yarwood, six months ago definitely helped.

Q.   What's necessary into the final round? 
    MICHAEL CAMPBELL:   After Simon Khan, Chris Wood, two fantastic rounds, the scores are out there to shoot low tomorrow.   I think I need to shoot low tomorrow to have a chance.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT