HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 12, 2006
Michael Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
(NOTE - Campbell's round equals the course record set by Henrik Stenson and Tiger Woods in the third round)
Q.  Were you inspired by the All Blacks?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  It's great to see the boys play well. It was inspiring for me. Today was a different day for me than yesterday. I woke up this morning and said to myself that today was a good day and go out and enjoy myself.
Q.  What made the difference between the last few days?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  I basically said to myself just think positive. That's it really. Simple stuff. Yesterday I was unlucky on a lot of occasions with wind swirling around and gusting and blowing my putts off line, bad lies. I hope I have had all my bad luck for the year in one day.

Today was completely different. Everything was great. Missed two fairways all day, and hit it close. I believe if you fill your mind with positives thoughts it will help you perform well.
Q.  It must be frustrating thinking what might have been?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  But it is all about the present time. It has been said over and over again that the point of power is in the present time. That was my attitude today.
Q.  You don't kick yourself now thinking you could be in a winning position?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  The thing is I am really excited about the three weeks coming up. I have Hong Kong, Australian Masters and then the Blue Chip New Zealand Open.
Q.  Hong Kong might suit you?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  I played it three or four years ago and finished top ten.

My form is good at the moment. I finished second to Goosen a month ago and looks like top four or three this week. so my form has finally turned the corner.
Q.  Were you thinking of the course record today?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  I was thinking of it after ten holes when I was six under and I was playing well enough to beat it. My last three holes yesterday was a huge turnaround for me and I carried the momentum on to today. Birdied the last three for a 77, and then birdied 2 and 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8.
Q.  An important start to the Order of Merit?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  It's a good start to my 2007 campaign, and I am pretty excited with another three tournaments left this year.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT