HSBC WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2006
Michael Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Michael, thanks for coming in and joining us.  Many congratulations, a 3 & 1 victory over Simon Khan.  You had a tough match in your first round last year, and that looks like another tough one today.
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  As the scores reflect, we didn't play great today, but it's all about beating your man, not the golf course, that's the most important thing.  Today was a prime example, it was nice to get over the first hurdle, another three to go, and hopefully will be well for the weekend.

One match at a time and today wasn't great, a few things to work on, but it's nice to get that one under my belt.  So I'm happy.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Was it a grind in parts of the round?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  It is.  Match play is a wonderful thing when it comes to momentum can change.  Frequently, two or three times in the space of a hole, your opponent to chip in or whatever, and it's not over until the last putt.  So it was nice to win with a birdie on 17.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Nice way to finish, thank you.
Q.  Is your golf good enough to win this week?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  It can be.  (Laughing).  Definitely.  It's match play.  It's all about making putts or birdies, really.
Q.  You said you've got a couple of things to work on, in terms of what you can do?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  I hit a few loose drives today which caused a few bogeys out there, but that's it, really.  My putting, chipping is great, iron play is pretty solid.  Just a matter of working on the tee ball action.
Q.  You came into today's round under a bit of pressure knowing that you had all to lose and that Simon had all to gain sort of situation?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Not really, no.  I was still half asleep the first nine holes (laughter). It was pretty tough the first nine holes, because it was rainy and cold, it's hard work.  I had no pressure at all being defending champion and as you say, you know, expectations of me to win that match was very high against Simon, but I didn't feel it.  You know, the most important thing is not to apply the pressure on yourself.  You've got to go out there and just play golf.
Q.  If things stay the way they are at the moment, we could be losing the two favourites, Furyk and Woods.
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  See the smile on my face?
Q.  How much would that throw the whole thing wide open?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Yeah, going on who is off so far, obviously Robert is playing fantastic.  I think it's great for the Ryder Cup mix next week to see if he does defeat Jim Furyk, No. 2 in the world.  It's gone up for Europe already.  So mentally, it's going to did a lot of things for the guys next week if he wins.  And once again, Tiger gets beaten by Shaun Micheel, it makes our job a lot easier.
Q.  Are you doing anything the same as last year, superstition wise, where you're staying?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Same cook, same house.
Q.  Same food?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Same food.  Salmon.  Lots of salmon.  Lots of Omega 3, good for the cholesterol.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Thank you very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT