U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2006
Michael Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. There must have been a lot of frustration?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Yeah, there was.  All three of us suffered from the same disease, you could say.  Nothing meant for us at all, for us three guys; we just really struggled on the greens today.  That's life, you know.  You must carry on.  There are lots of U.S. Opens to go in my career, so I'm looking forward to that.  I'll put this behind me.
Q.  Obviously still there's a lifeline.  The rest of the people to come back?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Yeah, it was tough out there.  The thing is your play gets magnified worse out there.  I didn't play that badly the last couple of days, just missed a few fairways.  Once you do that, you have to chip out sideways and make bogeys.  Just one of those things that happen.  All three of us, it just wasn't good enough.  We just couldn't get on a roll.

There was no momentum, no one making any birdies    I made two today, but besides that, it was pretty dull out there I think for all three of us.
Q.  Did you find the greens were slower than you expected?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Actually surprised that they were this morning.  I didn't do my homework, I think.  I can walk away    I'm just disappointed I'm not defending or doing well this weekend.  It's one of those things that happened, and you just learn from it and hopefully have a bit of power from your lessons.  This week was a lesson for me, and I need to go back and reflect on it and learn from it and hopefully learn for next time.
Q.  You say it was a lesson for you.  What do you think that the lesson would be?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  I think just patience.  I got a bit frustrated out there today, missed a few very, very short putts, a few putts within two feet, and rushed my pre shot routine a little bit, just frustration.

I think the word that springs to mind is patience.  It's a very patient    this game of golf, especially this week, it requires patience, and today was a prime example.
Q.  (Inaudible).
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  The patience ran out towards the back nine there where I missed a few fairways and made a few bogeys, and I got frustrated, I think, and missed a few putts because of that, because of my frustration.
Q.  Obviously Tiger is not playing very well.  Is that almost expected?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Yeah, you think about it, it's his first time back since his father passed away.  I mean, come on.  He's actually very emotional right now.  It's just one of those things that he is human, and it's going to be tough for him to come back.  Toughest conditions in the world at a major championship, first time coming back after two months off or nine weeks off, his father passing away.  I mean, God, you've got to give him credit for actually turning up.  That's one thing that I really admire about Tiger is that he wanted to come back just to play golf and get away.
Q.  Could you sense a lack of focus out there?  Were there obvious signs to you?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Yeah, intensity is the word.  He's pretty focused, but the intensity wasn't there as it normally is, I actually felt as a player playing next to him.
Q.  Do you sense any frustration or resignation by him about the way he's playing?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  No, he never gives up that boy, I'll tell you.  No, he gave it all towards the end.  He needed to make a birdie there on the last hole.  He rushed his chip 20 feet past, but he didn't give up at all.  To come back under the circumstances speaks volumes on how strong he is as a person.  I mean, it's a tough thing.  I'm lucky that my father is still alive, but for him to come back only after two months.  Two months ago his father passed away.  That's not very long, you know.  Time heals, and I believe that eventually it's going to empower Tiger to be a better player.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT