COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 24, 2013
Michael Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Are there mixed feelings after a round like that? 
    MICHAEL CAMPBELL:   Yeah, the first eight holes I played some wonderful golf, and a very easy 4‑under.   Then my putter went cold on me completely.   Hit some wonderful shots the back nine, but that's golf for you.   It gives me a chance, an opportunity for the weekend, a chance to win this golf tournament, but there's no guarantees in this game. 
    But yeah, so I can walk away after the first couple of days pretty happy.

Q.   And the putter going cold is down to you or the greens being bumpier in the afternoon?
    MICHAEL CAMPBELL:   It's a combination of both I think.   It is very hard to read out there, especially the grain, some of the putts I hit today I thought was right edge and then went the other way.   So it was very confusing out there for me, anyway, but have a chance for the weekend.

Q.   Did the breeze make a difference? 
    MICHAEL CAMPBELL:   Yeah, it made No. 15 real tough.   Hit driver, 4‑iron to the hole so it was definitely a bit of breeze for me, I don't mind.   Prefer at least 20 knots out there, a little bit tougher for the boys, but hopefully the weekend, tomorrow, it will blow.

Q.   What's the level of expectation?   Getting there, time and time again?
    MICHAEL CAMPBELL:   Once again, no expectation at all.   Just enjoying myself which I have been the last three or four tournaments, it's been great fun so far and that's going to continue on, that same sort of theme, just go out there and just have some fun. 

Q.   How do you feel about being the most expensive player in the auctions for India? 
    MICHAEL CAMPBELL:   It feels nice, it's a real compliment, my form shows that, we have a great team.   Daniel Chopra I know very, very well and he's a great player, it's very exciting, very different indeed.   I think it's going to be one of those three days where it's going to be a bit of fun and it's definitely something I'm looking toward to.

Q.   Well, it is different, there might be some complexities in the way the league works and things like that, but just playing as a four‑man team, that's pretty special, isn't it?
    MICHAEL CAMPBELL:   Absolutely, because you obviously play as individuals in this sport so it was nice to play as a team and the only time I've done that is World Cup a couple of times and also Presidents Cup.   So this is very different, indeed but it's going to be great fun.   Looking forward to it.   I've played it before, three or four years ago, it was a bit of fun, as well.   Just going to be enjoying myself.

Q.   Seeing the way golf has grown in India, I take it this is another step in that direction?
    MICHAEL CAMPBELL:   I think it's a great idea to really change the game a little bit to hopefully create more interest in the game of golf in India, so this is a positive step. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT