QUINN DIRECT BRITISH MASTERS
May 11, 2006
Michael Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  I am disappointed I didn't finish off the round. I was 4-under after six holes and came in five under. But having not played competitive golf for four weeks or so it is nice to come back here and be amongst it.

I was very surprised really. I had a month off without touching a golf club since Augusta and came here on Monday. First time I swung a golf club was on Monday so after four weeks off to come out first round out and shoot 67 was pretty handy.
Q.  Is that why you had your coach here this week?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Absolutely. A lot of creases to iron out. After a month off a lot of things creep into your swing. I flew him over from America and things are working so far.
Q.  You said yesterday this was the start of your bid but you didn't expect anything so soon?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Not really, no. I hadn't played for four weeks but having said that I played some of my best golf those last nine holes of Augusta. I didn't touch a club for four weeks. There were a few things to work on and we have worked hard on my game these last three days. I can walk away  a little disappointed as I could have had a two- or three-stroke lead, but 5-under is a pretty handy score.
Q.  Anything missing today?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Lack of match practice. 16 and 17 was pretty average. I got a little tired I think as I hadn't been training and have been drinking lots of fine red wine as opposed to going to the gym. I did it purposely to get away from the game as I needed a break. It was a very busy end of the year after my win at Pinehurst and the first six months after that I was mentally and physically very tired. I remember playing Tiger's event at the end of the year and I was shot. I took a long break and have only played six times since the end of the year and now it is time to turn up the volume, ready to win a few tournaments over here and reach my goal.

My goal was to win the Order of Merit. I know I am a million euros behind David Howell but there is a long way to go with a lot of big tournaments.
Q.  Where did you spend the last month?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  In Australia on the beach.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT