QUINN DIRECT BRITISH MASTERS
May 10, 2006
Michael Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  It's been a very quiet season for me so far. I have only played six times since the New Year. I did it purposely as I need a rest mentally and physically. I had a very busy end of the year after winning the US Open and the World Match Play. Mentally and physically I was very tired so I decided to take a lot of time off and I have. Four months, playing six times but now it is time to do some work, grind and work on my game and time to go out and play golf now. I had a lot of time off, a lot of time in Australia but I am looking forward to playing golf again now. The routine of playing golf for me is an easy part of my life and sometimes when you stop that routine for a while it becomes disjointed so it is nice the be back again. I have been working hard on my game. I flew my coach, Jonathan Yarwood, over from America. He is here this week and will be in two weeks time for the BMW. I am pretty serious now and back to the hard grind, back to the gym.
Q.  Is that the least you have played for a while?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Since turning pro I think. Different dynamic now with winning a major. It is the least golf I have played since turning pro 12 years ago.
Q.  Last year you just missed out on the play-off and then a month later won the US Open so was it at this event things started to come right for you?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  If you look at my results so far they haven't been pleasing - I have missed five cuts and got beaten in the first round of the match play. It is very similar to last year. Last year I did exactly the same thing, missed five cuts in a row and then came out and started playing well here and then built my confidence through playing well in this event and in Europe. That is my plan. At the end of last year we sat down with a plan and now it is time to start to build up towards my defence from Pinehurst which means I am playing four in a row here in Europe before going to America. It is a very similar route we took last year to build up to the US Open and minus the pre-qualifying it is exactly the same.
Q.  Are you still riding the wave from last year?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  You draw positively from that win and it makes you more motivated. I want to come out and do better this this year. When you taste that victory and taste that first major you want more, I do personally. Sometimes you get a case where you exceed and excel in their chosen sport and do something wonderful like I did last year they think that is it. For me I want more. More majors. It is the one thing good players are judged on - how many majors you have won. There are a lot of great players who haven't won Majors yet and it is nice to be part of history now.
Q.  Are you thinking about the other Majors yet - Hoylake?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  No. I haven't played there bit have heard great things about it and I am looking forward to playing it. I will try and squeeze up there for a couple of days before the Open as it is only a four or five hour drive for me and play a few times before the Open. But my focus now is on before the US Open.
Q.  What do you know of this course?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  I have played it dozens of times and it is a very challenging course. The last hole is one of the toughest on the European Tour with a tough drive and second shot and then the three tier green. You can easily three or four putt on that green. It is a course that holds a lot of history with the past Ryder Cups and there is a great atmosphere. The guys like playing here. Electric atmosphere and I hope to be part of it.
Q.  It is the return to Europe for a lot of players, what does that add to the event?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  All the European-based players, Harrington, Poulter, Westwood, Clarke - all those guys play the first few months in America to warm up but really the true season for us starts here for us on the European Tour. That's why you see all the players play this week and again in the BMW in two weeks time. These are some of the biggest events in Europe. We always try and peak  for the BMW, the players' flagship and that is our main focus not only the Majors but also these major events in Europe.
Q.  What is about the European Tour you particularly enjoy?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  There are a lot of factors. I enjoy the culture, the camaraderie among all the players I find refreshing. I see my mates on TV and if he is doing well I want him to win but if I am playing against him I want to beat him. One thing about golf is you shake hands on the first tee and again at the end and after that you are mates again. I compete against my best mates all the time and that is unusual mentally. It is the same in rugby where the All Blacks play England and compete against each other on the pitch and then share a beer afterwards.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT