TARGET WORLD CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY WILLIAMS
December 10, 2005
Michael Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Michael, for joining us for a few minutes.  Great finish there with those two birdies to hang in there.  Why don't you just talk about going into Sunday.
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Yes, once again, it's been a roller coaster ride the last couple of days.

Great start; I hit my Heaven Wood on the 2nd hole to about two feet.

And then I lost the putt there for a while.  4, 5 and 7 were just    4 was two good shots to about 15 feet and three putted from there.

On the par 5 at the 5th hole, good drive and good second shot really and came up short and caught a bad lie, and made bogey there.

Then in the bushes on 7 with my drive, then made a penalty shot and then made bogey there.

Then nice shot on 8 hit 4 iron to probably ten feet.

Then I hit driver, 5 iron on the 11th hole to probably a foot.

Then another three putt from nowhere on 13, and then strong finish.

Once again, it's a mixed bag of good and bad and other stuff, too.
Q.  I missed 13.  What was that?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  3 wood, 3 wood, front of the green and into the bunker, smashed out and three putted.
Q.  Everybody seems to be driving into that thing in the middle of the fairway on 7.  Is that the bush that you went into?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Yeah, it's 300, so for me it's right between my driver and 3 wood.  I try to miss it.  Actually sometimes if you aim for things, you think you'll just push it or pull it, and it went straight into the bushes.  Next time I'll aim right or left.
Q.  What makes sense to you, a rock in the middle of the fairway or the cork trees in the middle of the fairway at Valderrama?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  None do, really.  I think it's very penal to have those sort of things in the middle of fairways.  I think maybe a bunker or so and then you have a chance to smash it out onto the green, but not a rock or cork trees.  It makes you think twice on the tee.  You can't just smash driver down there 310 or 320 yards.  You've got to think about your tee shot.  It does actually make you think about the shot at hand.
Q.  Have you aimed for it all three days?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Yeah.
Q.  You just got lucky today?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Yeah.  I hit it too straight.
Q.  You opened 3, 3, 3.  You've five shots ahead after 2, and within five holes it's tied.  I mean, that's golf, right?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Well, that's this golf course.  You've got two reachable par 5s.  First five holes, as you can see my record on the 5th hole is pathetic.  It's 2 over.  It's a par 5 you can reach in two with driver and 3 iron.  Hopefully tomorrow I can rectify that and make eagle.  It's a course where you can get on a good roll very, very easily.  The 6th hole was a driver and a flick, so I got off to a pretty hard start.
Q.  Whereabouts did your second shot go on 5?  Too far right by the tree?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  No, it was between the bunker and the green, and I caught a really bad lie.  It was sitting pretty deep and I had to chunk it out and flopped it and skulled my chip about ten feet, missed the putt.
Q.  How important was closing with the two birdies?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Very important.  For me, if you look at 17 and 18 yesterday, I played them in ten shots and today I played them in five shots.  It would have been nice to have that finish yesterday.  I wanted to get close.  I knew that Darren was playing well, and I didn't want Darren to get too far away from me, and I knew if I birdied the last two holes I might have a chance to even take the lead.

But he obviously birdied the last hole, played great today, so all credit to Darren.
Q.  When you hit your tee shot on 17, did you think you were in trouble?  Did you think it would come off the hill like it did?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Of course (laughter).  It was a horrible shot.  That's why I gave it the old one handed "here we go" type of thing.  The golf gods smiled on me and gave me a little bounce to the right ten feet and I made birdie.  It could have been disastrous.
Q.  Didn't you used to wear red socks for luck?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  That was about ten years ago.
Q.  Why did you give up on that?  It wasn't bringing you any luck?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  It did for a while, yeah.  At the British Open I wore red socks.
Q.  In '95?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  '95, and then I started missing cuts, so I changed to black (laughter).  They're black and gray right now.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT