VOLVO MASTERS
October 29, 2005
Michael Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








HONOURARY LIFE MEMBERSHIP PRESENTATION TO

MICHAEL CAMPBELL
Q.  Michael, it's been a fantastic year for you and George O'Grady standing along side of us, he's got a special presentation for you.
GEORGE O'GRADY:  I think Michael, I think in honour, not only of your win in the U.S. Open this year, but your tremendous support of The European Tour over so many years, all of the members of The European Tour want to award you honourary life membership and we hope that you will your support of us and be a member and enjoy it with pride.  Congratulations and thank you.
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Thank you very much, George.  Thank you.  Well, this is a wonderful accomplishment for me.  I thank The European Tour for making me the player that I am.  I think over the last ten years now, I've learned a lot about myself and my golf game, and definitely The European Tour made some huge contributions to my success so far.  So thanks to the European Tour.  Thanks, George.
GEORGE O'GRADY:  Great pleasure, great pleasure.  Thank you.
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Just to top off on the Order of merit, the year has been an unbelievable year for me to be honest.  Today has been a great day, but the whole of the last ten months has been an incredible    it's surpassed my expectations.  It's surpassed a lot of things, goals that I've achieved so far.  And being made an honorary member once again just catches it caps it off.  Every week, every month is something new and it's very exciting for me and I'm just so happy just to be here right now, and just how things have changed for me to for last four months.  In the last 12 months I couldn't break an egg, but now I'm in contention of winning the Order of Merit.  It's amazing how you do a few things behind the scenes, how you can improve as a person and as a player.

Now, there's a lot more of the guys and it's more important to the guys playing on this tour.  Really in the last probably ten years, really it's been the Americans, and now I've proven the theory wrong and it's given guys like Paul McGinley, Monty, Poulter, all of the Darren Clarkes, Westwoods, Harringtons, all of the top players here the opportunity that if Michael Campbell can do this, win a major playing over here, surely they can do the same short sort of thing.

So the last thing I want to do is upset the routine or processes right now.  I want to keep on doing what I'm doing, and I am employing the same people for next year, for the next 18 or 12 months.  But you know, I just want to play in Europe.  I think The European Tour, it's different countries every week and different golf courses.
Q.  Very satisfying; you needed to go very low today.
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Yeah, today I needed to go very, very low and Monty is obviously playing fantastic golf.  All credit to Monty.  He deserves it.  But I missed I think six putts within ten feet, 15 feet the back nine, so it could have been anything. But this is Valderrama and hopefully it blows tomorrow.  I think I'll probably be eight or nine behind with 18 holes to play.  Catch up on one hole, every second hole, but just go out and playing tomorrow and just shooting low, and let the golfing gods take control.
Q.  You haven't broken Monty just yet.
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  He's a good egg to break.  All credit to Monty.  I played with him on the first day obviously.  He played fantastic.  He could have shot a lot lower than he did and obviously yesterday was a fantastic round, shooting I think 6 under or whatever he shot, what a phenomenal round.  And today once again he's up there under the pressure, under the gun and he's once again shown the world really how good he is and he's a world class player.
Q.  You've shown this week that you're not about to raise a white flag?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  No, no, Kiwis don't surrender, neither do the All Blacks.  They don't surrender until the fat lady sings, and I'm going to go out there tomorrow and just give it my best shot.  18 holes is a lot of holes to play and there's another six for him to play now.  It all depends on what he does in the next six holes and obviously tomorrow but I won't worry about him.  I'll just go out and play to the best of my ability and give 110%. The 17th green here is brutal and it's difficult.  I had 90 yards to the pin today and it's incredible, we should actually play more golf courses like that to be honest.  Normally in golfing terms it's quite simple.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT