VOLVO MASTERS
October 28, 2005
Michael Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Today was a really nice day.  I played great from tee-to-green and missed a few -- I had a few silly holes I think on 6 and 7.

Then I had 235 yards to the front of the green on 11, and my second shot, I hit it about a hundred yards and made 6 there.

I've got another two rounds to go.  Monty is up there doing his stuff once again, but I can't really control what he does.  I can just control my own destiny here, and then I'm just going to play the same way I've been playing for the next two rounds.
Q.  Is this a course that you feel comfortable on?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  It's not one of my favorites, to be honest, Valderrama.  It's a golf course you need to work the ball a lot off the tee because you've got a lot of trees in all of the fairways, you could say, on the second hole there and if you add those two on 13, is it, 14, as well.  So it's a challenging golf course.

But he's won here before; well, joint, I think, and he's performed well over recent years in Valderrama.  It's one of those golf courses, we had a little talk yesterday and he said he prefers this golf course, he likes it a lot.  It's one of his favorites, but not mine.  That's just the way it goes and you've got to learn to like it and hopefully the next two rounds is good enough for me.
Q.  Where would you have liked to taken him on?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  It starts with a P and ends with a T.
Q.  Does it make a difference not playing alongside him today?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Not really.  Kenneth is a nice guy to play with.  We had a bit of fun today.  I had fun yesterday with Monty, but I was a little bit rusty I think after a two-week break and it showed yesterday.  But today I was more focused on what I was doing and I played a lot better than yesterday.
Q.  What was the difference in your play?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  I think basically I was more focused today.  Yesterday I was a little bit rusty; had not played for two weeks.  Today I was more focused on what I was supposed to do.  I played great from tee-to-green, apart from a few holes, I think 6 and 7, bogeys on those.  But it was a good effort today.
Q.  Just the nature of the course, you're always going to make bogeys here.
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Absolutely.  I think it's the type of golf course where if you're not on your game you make bogeys very, very quickly and I did on 6 and 7, and I came back strong with birdies on the 17th hole there.  It's a tough par 5, once again, and it's a real test of golf out here in Valderrama.

As I said before, it's a marathon and we have another two rounds to go and hopefully it will be good enough to win this event.
Q.  Conditions today compared to yesterday?  Any particularly tricky flags?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  The greens are more receptive, softer because of the rain obviously.  And the ball is spinning a lot out there and you have to hit it past the hole.  Basically it's playing a little bit longer, and the rough is brutal, once again.  So it plays probably two shots harder than yesterday.
Q.  Coming to the week knowing you need to be in the top 5 to challenge Monty, does that affect your thinking?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  No.  I'm just going to go out and do what I've been doing the last six months, give 110% on every single shot, shot-by-shot as they always say, and just have a bit of fun on the way.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT