THE PRESIDENTS CUP
September 23, 2005
Michael Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Michael, when you missed the putt on 17, what's your reaction?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  That's my nature, that's normal for any    wherever you go, if you played in Australia or South Africa, it would have been the same thing if the Americans missed the putt.  That's all part of the game over here in America.  I know they can be very vocal at times.  You've got to accept that as a player and I know that.  Actually, they are raising me up a little bit, you know.  If you just use it in your favor, as I did, it certainly helps me a little bit.  If you hear a little heckling going on in the crowds, like a guy said to me over the putt, "miss the putt" sort of thing, it's pretty unfair.  But once again, it's actually a good thing for me personally, it really keeps me going.  It's just one of those things.
Q.  When a guy shows as much emotion as DiMarco does, does that fire you up?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Yeah, obviously the whole    you know, the last couple of days has been a lot of fun for me.  It's my second Presidents Cup and I've come to form this week as pretty good.  I've won the World Match Play last week and won the Open four months ago.  You know, I've just really enjoyed the moment here and enjoyed guys competing against each other.  It's amazing how we are friends once we walk off the golf course, but on the first tee, we're enemies.
Q.  You caught a lot of hole on the shot on 18.
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  It was frustrating.  The shot was perfect, I had 113 yards with a sand wedge and I had to pitch it about five yards past the pin and I hit the pin.  I aimed for the pin and hit it.
Q.  And the chip shot?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  That's the way it goes.
Q.  Are you happy with a halve out of that match?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Yeah, could have gone either way.  I think it could have gone either our way or the Americans' way.  That's the way it goes.  It's going to be tough.  It's a real fun week for all of us to play here in front of a challenging crowd, you could say, but I've really enjoyed it so far.
Q.  Do you feel a different role this than the first time around on this event?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Yeah, I feel that the expectations are greater due to obviously my World Ranking and my being labelled a major winner and without Ernie being here, I've had a little bit more I would say.  I think when you do those sort of things, you know, you've got your responsibilities and I believe that I can fill those shoes, and it's showed last couple of days.  I played okay, would be yesterday and a halve today, so I haven't lost yet.
Q.  Did the weather delay have any effect on your game?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  No, I think it's the same for everybody else.  I think it's the same with the International Team as well as the U.S. Team.  There's no difference at all really and we all have similar time to warm up, similar times to go to the respective tees.  So there's no real advantage or disadvantage.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT