THE PRESIDENTS  CUP
September 22, 2005
Michael Campbell
Tim Clark
Retief Goosen
Mark Hensby
Nick O'Hern
Adam Scott
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
VIJAY SINGH:  We played good.  Mark played well, we both hit some bad shots.  I would have been much happier if we had won, but even score is not losing.
Q.  How was the atmosphere for you?

MARK HENSBY:  You know, it's a different format, and not one I play in very often.  It's different, there's no doubt.  It's hard to get a rhythm going.  And today we were playing well, we would go 1 up and the next hole they would make a putt or we couldn't get it going.
Q.  Vijay, how do you feel when a match is as tight as that?

VIJAY SINGH:  I try to stand on the tee and take a shot.  I want to be in the middle of it.  It's pressure when you have to make a putt and you have to hit a good drive but nothing more than usual.  I enjoyed it.


.
Q.  Can you talk about your day out here?

NICK O'HERN:  Yeah, the crowds were loud obviously which is good and it's great to be a part of it.  Obviously our match was disappointing but we played well and hit a lot of good shots.  They just hold more putts, I missed a couple of short ones and maybe that was the difference.  All in all it was a lot of fun.
Q.  Talk about how your match went down to the last hole, any anxieties and stuff, nervousness?

NICK O'HERN:  Yes, but it's no different than when you're playing a tournament and coming down to the last hole.  You deal with it and you've got to make the putts that we need to.  We played good golf.  It's not an easy day out there, the wind was strong and gusting from time to time.  It would have been nice to come out with a half at least.

Q.  Obviously a great match all the way to the last hole?

TIM CLARK:  Yeah, a good match and I think me and Nick make a good team.  You know, it was just one of those matches, we were down and got it back to even.  I think if we could have just got a little bit of momentum.  Unfortunately it's a 1 down loss, I think we would have liked a halve with two to go.  It was a good match, they just outplayed us.
Q.  This is the first Presidents Cup here, talk about playing the Americans now.

TIM CLARK:  Certainly it's a little different, I hit some shots that by the reaction, I thought I might have missed the green but they were up there around the hole.  It's a little bit different.  I think in South Africa, there's a bit more cheering for good shots no matter who hit it.  But, no, we sort of expecting that here and, you know, other than that, yeah guess they did pretty good.

Q.  From your vantage point it didn't work for the other side?

ADAM SCOTT:  They just got behind early and if the other team is playing good, I guess it's hard to come back.  You know, I think that we just played a little better.
Q.  The putt at 10 seemed to take a little bit of the starch out of those guys.

RETIEF GOOSEN:  It's true.  We kept the pressure on them the whole time.  We holed a few putts.  Freddie missed a couple of short ones and that sort of got us ahead.
Q.  Your eagle on 12 didn't hurt matters.

ADAM SCOTT:  No, it kept everything rolling along and got us in a pretty comfortable position to keep the pressure on and finish it off early.
Q.  Is it like getting more than a point, winning a match against Tiger Woods?

RETIEF GOOSEN:  Do we get ten points if we beat him?  (Laughter).


MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  I kind of relaxed too much, I was watching the putt, and he holed that putt and made me think a little bit more about my putt.  I followed Kenny with my putt on 17 and I'm happy to be playing with Angel tomorrow.

We played together today, the first time as a team.  We played great together.  We gelled very well.  We're very, very similar personalities, very laid back and had some fun today.
Q.  Team spirit?

MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Fantastic.  We got together on Monday and it's amazing how the last four days or so has been    how we can get together so quickly as a team.  I think we have got the same sort of mentality, the Australians and South Africans and Fijians and Argentines and Canadians, it's amazing, how mentally we can think the same.

It's been a very, very exciting first day to us to have the first edge on the Americans on their home soil, it's a huge advantage, so I'm looking forward to tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT