SMURFIT EUROPEAN OPEN
June 30, 2005
Michael Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Comment on the day?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL: I just wasn't there to be honest, my putting was average and I just wasn't there. My mind was flashing back to what happened two weeks ago I think and I just wasn't on the job today.
Q. What was the crowd reaction to you?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL: Oh, it was great, continuous congratulations to me for winning the U.S. Open and it was nice. It is a bit of an anti-climax I suppose from going from winning a Major Championship to here is a little bit different to normal.
Q. But you are not going to kick yourself about it -- you maybe half expected it?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL: I didn't really know what to expect to be honest. I thought I'd be pretty ready for today and I wasn't you know. My mind wasn't on the job and it didn't really happen for me today.
Q. When you were over shots or when you were walking between them?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  I can't really remember now -- it's a blur. It is an experience I haven't had before and one I'm not used to.
Q. A nice save to finish with, that might make lunch taste a bit better?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL: Yes, but hopefully over the next three days I can shoot low and be in contention again but right now I just want to go home and rest.
Q. I think everyone can understand that -- it has been a bit of a rollercoaster for you?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Yes, it has, I just want to go home and put my feet up and take it easy!
Q. Bogeys at the 16th, 17th, and 18th?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL: The 18th was a prime example of what my day was like today. I hit it to the front of the green with a driver and five iron and then made bogey from there, so there is a two shot swing. On the 16th I had a bad drive and had to knock it out sideways and at the 17th I three putted from about 30 feet so once again I wasn't there, I wasn't sharp and my mind wasn't doing the right job for me.
Q. You thought yesterday that you could get your mind right?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL: Well, yes, I did but this is a new experience for me. To win a Major for the first time and then to come back two weeks later and try to perform as best you can is hard. But I have learned from it and hopefully I can cope better the next time.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT