JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
April 22, 2005
Michael Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SCOTT CROCKETT:  Michael, many thanks for coming in.  A long day but a ultimately successful one.  You must be pleased with where you are in the tournament.
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Yeah, after my start this season, I think it's nice to come back after a month off and play well this week.  I made a few changes to my structure you could say and have been working with my coach full-time this year.  Last couple of years, it's been more difficult to try and see him because he's got other jobs at hand.  So decided end of last year to go with him full-time.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Just the details your card, you started at 10 and birdied 11.
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  That was about 20 feet, sand wedge.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  The par 5.
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Back of the green in two and 2-putted, 25 feet.

Next hole, driver, 8-iron to about six feet.

17, 6-iron to about two feet.

18, I hit it right into the hazard.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  And 2, the second hole?  Or we'll go with the third, the one after the second, which you can't remember either.
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  The second hole I hit driver, 4-iron, green-side bunker and chipped up.

Next hole, 4-iron just off the green, pin-high, chipped in, 15 feet.
Q. How hard has it been to concentrate for  such a long time?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Yeah, I think it's been a long day with what's been happening with the tournament.  The first day was even harder because you're doing nothing much at all, and then come out and play, hit a few golf balls.

Yesterday was harder than today you could say because it's just you had the whole day to fill your whole time and it was pretty hard to do.  Today moved pretty fast and I think I'm fit enough and strong enough to play 36 holes.  Very fortunate to actual play 36 holes today in these conditions.  After the practice day and the Pro-Am day, I was shaking my head thinking 2- or 3-under would win this golf tournament and you wake up today and it's benign conditions.

The forecast tomorrow is pretty bad, as well, so getting a lot of different types of -- you could say different types of wind directions.  The last three holes it completely switched on us, 360 degrees, or 180 degrees -- it's been a long day.  180-degree turnaround out there.  It's a tougher golf course where you just have to be very wary.  It's very gusty, as well.  So it's tough out there.
Q.  You had five missed cuts but then there was a suggestion, with your 12th place finish the last time in China at the TCL Classic, that your form is coming back?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Yeah, it's been hard the last six months or so, I've been struggling with my game.  I sat down and took four weeks off and decided to do something about it and work on my game mentally and physically and come out all guns blazing.

I played great the first round today and shot the worst 2-under in the world.  2-under today in the first round was pretty bad, making bogeys from 90 yards out; was a little bit rusty with my game.  But I knew I was good enough to shoot a low one this afternoon today I shot -- 7-under today, it was quite an easy 7-under to be honest.
Q.  In a way, you benefitted by coming straight out and going into the second round.
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  Yeah, because obviously your body is warmed up already from the first eight holes.  I would not mind playing 36 holes today, especially in these conditions.  It can get very, very gusty and very, very breezy out there.  I had a good feel for my putter in my hand and my game felt nice.  I wanted to play 36 holes today, so it was a good judgment by the officials.
Q.  What did you do during your four weeks off?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  I actually went to America for a week.  I flew from Sydney to England, and England to America, for a week and then to England and to here.  I've been flying around the world for last four weeks, but it's been worth it.

There's been a few occasions last year where he couldn't come over because of other commitments that he's got in America.  He works for an academy my which is based in Sarasota and his bosses would not release him to come over to see me.  It was pretty frustrating for me to see him.  They said no, so we decided to do something about it.
Q.  How many other players does he work with?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  About four other players, Stephen Scahill, Alex Cejka and a few other players on the U.S. tour.
Q.  I suppose it all depends on how Adam Scott plays tomorrow?
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  If he doesn't go crazy, we've got a chance.  It was a great score he shot yesterday -- today.  It was a freak round, I think 9-under in these conditions was very, very good.  It all depends on what Scotty does tomorrow.
Q.
 The forecast for tomorrow is not great so presumably you are happy to have your two rounds in the bag.
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:  I think the forecast for tomorrow is horrendous.  So I'm very happy with where I am right now to be tied with the lead with Scotty, Peter Hanson, and I think as well as Goosy.  So it's nice to be up there again.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Michael, well done.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT