UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 17, 2012
Michael Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PAUL SYMES:   Michael, well played again, great up‑and‑down on the last, that capped off a pretty good day for you.  
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:   I wouldn't say well played, but just one of those things where today was sort of scrappy; apart from a couple of drives, it was pretty average really.   But once again, I just managed to grind out a score, which is very important me not playing so well.   I turned a 73 into a 69, which is always nice.   
But I've still got a chance to win tomorrow, and that's what I wanted to do after three rounds is give myself an opportunity to go out there and hopefully lift the UBS Hong Kong Open trophy.   
PAUL SYMES:   Tell us what happened with you knocked your ball off the tee.  
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:   I've never done that before.   Since I started playing golf, in the last 38 years of playing golf I've never ever done that where I had a practise swing and I teed the ball up and then my practise swing, I knock it off the tee.   
I knew it wasn't a penalty, but JP was there and confirmed it.   It wasn't an intentional swing.   So I was allowed to replace the ball on the tee.   It was hilarious, wasn't it.   It was so funny.  
   
 Q.   Must have given you a scare initially, surely?  
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:   Yeah, I knew the rules, but I wanted to double‑check.   And when JP started walking towards me with a big smile on his face, I knew I was okay.   
PAUL SYMES:   Looking forward to playing with Miguel tomorrow, another member of the over‑40 club.  
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:   Yeah, once again Miguel is playing great golf once again, and he's won this twice before and he's the man to beat; and Manny, as well, playing some great golf again after winning last week.   
And then you have the local favourite, Zhang.   It's going to be a very interesting day tomorrow and it's going to be I think a lot of fun.   It will be nice to be a part of it.   
   
 Q.   You went through yesterday and sort of detailed what's gone through your life the last seven years; how good would it be to be sitting here tomorrow with the trophy beside you now?  
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:   It would be very satisfying.   I've made a lot of sacrifices the last couple of years, the whole family and it would be nice to finally get some more silverware to add to my trophy cabinet.   
That's why we play the game, Bernie, is to play and win golf tournaments.   It would be a nice little way‑‑ a nice way to finish the year.   
   
 Q.   In the bigger picture, if you are sitting here tomorrow night, you also have a tournament next week.   
MICHAEL CAMPBELL:   That's right, if it's a bonus for me; if I win tomorrow or top two tomorrow, that means I'm playing to Dubai for The Race to Dubai.   So it would be a lot of fun to qualify for that.   It's one goal, after finishing third at Portugal my goal was to make the Top 60 of The Race to Dubai, so hopefully tomorrow will be good enough to do that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT