WGC ANDERSEN CONSULTING MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2000
Michael Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: Obviously it's going to be good for me. I'm looking forward to it.
You have to look at my fields I've beaten the last few months compared to Tiger's fields,
it's not as strong. In hindsight, I look back and think what Tiger has done is phenomenal.
I have a lot of respect as a player and a person for him. So relative to who you beat, you
know. And obviously coming here has been good. My confidence is very high, I'm very
focused, and obviously if I just keep on doing what I'm doing right now, tomorrow is going
to be exciting.  
 
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: It doesn't surprise me, no. I've been very hot. '99 on the European
Tour I came close to winning so many times, but tried too hard in the last round. I've
been here before, in '95, I played well in '95. I finished fifth on the Order of Merit,
and obviously I knew that the ability was there. I knew that I was good enough to win a
golf tournament, and finally I think breaking through in the Johnnie Walker, it was a huge
step for me, for my confidence and my career. And beating Tiger at the Johnnie Walker in
Taiwan in November, I think it was, was the kickstart to my career. I had a second win to
my career after '95, because the injury I had in '96 put me back probably two or three
years. And during those two or three years I wasn't confident in playing, but I got low,
but I just hung in. 
 
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: It started when I started seeing a coach of mine, his name is
Jonathan Yarwood, about two and a half years ago, he's in Sarasota. He's been based there
for five years, he's under David Lipper's wing. And Jonathan has changed my whole swing
around to a point where it's very simple. And that leads onto more of a mental side now,
my confidence as I said before is very high, because now I can visualize a shot more
easily, because of him. I know my technique is better than it was two and a half years
ago. 
 
Q. Michael, when we were going -- when we were writing about Tiger's six PGA TOUR
winning streak, and everyone was making a fuss about that, did you think to yourself, hey,
what about Johnnie Walker, I'm the guy that beat him?
 
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: That's why I went from the 6 PGA TOUR events to eight in a row.
Actually it was Ernie Els in the start of the year. I was watching the playoff, and we
have Tiger Woods, he wins 6 PGA tournaments in a row, I knew I was in 8 tournaments in a
row, because I beat him in the Johnnie Walker. But obviously I respect Tiger as a player.
Everybody does in this world. But tomorrow when I head towards that first tee, I'll be
thinking about my first tee shot. It's going to be tough to spend a week away from my
family, my son who is 18 months old. It's hard to walk out the door and leave home. I'll
be making the most of it. 
 
Q. What was the nature of the win in Taiwan, were you head-to-head, or how did that day
go?
 
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: I was pretty much leading the whole -- the whole -- I was leading
from the first round. And Tiger was about two or three shots behind me every time. So I
knew he was there. But I just sort of used his presence to my advantage. All the
expectations was for Tiger to win, the media, the public, everybody expected Tiger to win
that week. So all the attention is on Tiger. And all I did was just played golf. And I
just was lucky enough to win by about three or four shots. 
 
Q. At the Open in '95 when particularly we in America first became introduced to you,
and you made the great sand shot on 17, you were right there. And then you sort of in our
minds just disappeared. What was the injury, what happened to you, and also maybe --
you've probably gone through this a hundred times -- could you go through the thing about
your Scottish grandfather, great grandfather going to New Zealand? It's fascinating stuff
for us.
 
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: During the end of '95 I was invited to lots of tournaments around the
world. I played in Japan, I played in Indonesia, in Spain, in England, Australia, New
Zealand, 8 tournaments in a row, 7 different countries. And they weren't short trips,
around the world practically. And my body was tired, I was in contention for those seven
or eight tournaments, whatever. And my wrist broke down. It was a sign of my body saying
"I can't handle this, all this pressure of playing." And just basically pounding
all those golf balls. And I had strict instructions from a doctor to take six months off.
I get invited to Augusta, thinking, "Hey, I can't turn that down." So I came
back too early, and it made a difference to my wrist, which put me back another six
months. So there goes a year and a half or so or 12 months. So through just not being
patient, through being very eager to get there and playing Augusta, of course, my first
time ever, and it did a lot of damage to me mentally, as well, as well as physically. So
another year goes by, and I come across Jonathan Yarwood, he's sitting here right now, my
coach. But the other question was back in 1840, Logan Campbell came over from Edinburg. He
stopped in Asia, and eventually got to New Zealand. He married three or four wives. Back
in those days it was allowed. And one of them was a Maori, M-a-o-r-i, and so he's my great
-great -great-great-grandfather. And he was the mayor of Oakland. He's very well
respected. And he's respected in New Zealand and Auckland. He gave land to the Maori
people. And also there's a monument that's called One Tree Hill in Auckland, named after
him. And that's it, really. 
 
Q. When was the lowest point? Did you really think of, say, giving up the Tour?
 
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: The lowest point was in the French Open I think around June, July of
'97, I shot 81, 80 something, I can't remember what it was. I went to my hotel room,
sitting on my bed and going, "What can I do?" I couldn't even hit the golf ball,
couldn't putt, couldn't chip. I was shanking my chips. I can always go have my Telecom
job, I can always be a club pro somewhere around New Zealand, just take it easy and give
lessons to amateurs and all that. But just the family around me, the support I've had from
my wife, Julie, mom and dad, and all my friends and the group of people around me, the
circle of people around me gave me so much support, morally, it was amazing. So I just
thought to myself, "Come on, don't be stupid. You've done this -- you've beaten the
best in the world before. There's no reason why you can't do it again." And basically
my coach, Jonathan, steered me in the right direction, and here I am. 
 
Q. Did you play the following week, after the French Open?
 
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: Almost every cut. I lost my card on the European card and
Australasian card. In '97 I went to see Jonathan, and two weeks later -- I went to
European Tour school and retained my card for '98, and all of a sudden it was a snowball
effect after that. 
 
Q. Michael, did you think that you would rise higher than 65 after your last win, and
what was your first thought when you saw that you had drawn Tiger for the first round?
 
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: I was very surprised, dropping 3 spots, after winning the Australian
Masters, because it's regarded as a very high tournament in Australia. And the field
wasn't that strong, obviously, but as I said before, at least I thought I'd probably drop
to around the 50s, around there. But playing Tiger, I'm very excited about. But I think in
a way, the way I'm playing right now I have a good chance of doing well. As I said, I'm
here to win, not to make up the field. I believe the way I'm thinking, I'm in that zone
and being focused, I have a very good chance. 
 
Q. Considering how he's played and his history with match play, would you rather have
not played him in the first round?
 
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: It wouldn't have bothered me at all, really. The only thing is all I
can control is my own destiny, not his. I'll be out there thinking about my golf game. And
just he can think about his. He's obviously a naturally gifted player, and I've got a lot
of respect for that. But the bottom line is that I'll be out there playing and give it my
best shot. It's been -- spending a week away from my family is hard enough. You turn a
negative to a positive, and at least for being away from my wife and family, I'll make the
best of it. 
 
Q. Do you consider yourself an underdog?
 
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: Yes, no question about it. He's streaks ahead of everybody else out
here. I think the most important thing I do is go to that match tomorrow with a very
positive attitude.  
 
Q. Michael, did you watch the end of the Pebble Beach?
 
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: No. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: He won last week.  
 
Q. It was too late by then.
Q. Where is the family, Michael?
 
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: I live in Richmond now, in England. 
 
Q. Did you live in that area, once?
 
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: In '95 for about three years. And I bought a place in '96 in
Richmond, and I've been there the last three or four years. 
 
Q. What exactly was the injury? Was it ligaments, was it tendonitis?
 
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: Basically it's like -- it's like a band that goes around your wrist.
And it's like -- it's called a sheath. And so when you move your wrist, your tendons go
with that movement. Mine is ruptured right there (indicating), it still flicks out. It
doesn't hurt, but basically it ruptured right there, which means every time I turn my
wrist, it just flicks over the bone. 
 
Q. Did it happen on one particular shot or just wear and tear?
 
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: It was inflamed, a week before it actually happened. In Australia, I
played two weeks there, and it's hard, hard ground. And I felt this little twinge in my
wrist, and I thought nothing of it. And so I just persevered with it. And all of a sudden
on the 5th or 4th hole on the New Zealand Open, I had this shot off the tee, actually, a
driver, and I felt it was out of position on the way down, so I tried to, through my
natural instinct, trying to correct it very quickly, and that's when it happened. It just
popped. And I felt this sharp painful, painful sharp pain down my left arm. And I knew it
wasn't good at all. And I thought my whole career was done. But now here I am. I'm back
again. 
 
Q. It was the end of '95?
 
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: Yeah. But I feel I'm more of a complete player now. I used to be a
very streaky putter, but now my putting is more consistent, as in better. My all- around
game is better. The way I'm swinging right now was technically better than in '95. 
 
Q. Did they do surgery?
 
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: No, I went to an herbalist, and natural path and I tried acupuncture,
which I thought -- I was a nonbeliever when I first went there, because I couldn't even
hold a pen in my left hand, it was so painful. And after two sessions of acupuncture, I
held this pen. It works. I'm a true believer in acupuncture now. I had a lot of advice
from different types of areas, and mostly guys wanted to cut me up. I said, "No thank
you. There's other ways we can do this." And just acupuncture helped me a lot. And
just a lot of rehab on my wrist. 
 
Q. Did you have to do something now, a preventative rehab?
 
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: Last -- two weeks ago at the Australian Masters on the 7th hole my
second shot, there's a tuft of grass, about this far from my ball (indicating), and I hit
my second shot and it caught the grass, it was thick grass in Australia, and it caught my
club, and it tweaked my wrist, and it was pretty -- not painful, but I could feel this
pain again in the same area as my injury, for the rest of the day. So it's still quite
weak. I'm just going to do a lot of strength stuff to it, very light weights in my wrist,
just to strengthen it up. I'll never be a hundred percent. I'm just going to maintain some
sort of rehab every day over the year, just to keep it going. 
 
Q. Where would beating Tiger tomorrow rank for you?
 
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: I never even thought about it. I haven't thought about tomorrow at
all, really. Obviously -- I think the most important thing I can do is keep my feet on the
ground and just turn up tomorrow, go through my routine, hit balls, get on the first tee
and hit it. And I think -- if you start thinking about consequences, if you think about
the future, too far ahead of yourself, you get into a lot of problems. But if I keep on
doing what I'm doing, keeping my presence of mind I'll be fine. 
 
Q. Coming to Sunday at Riviera, a lot of the leaders, everybody came in the tent and
they asked immediately where's Tiger, what's he up to? Everybody was aware of what he was
doing or wanted to be aware, and basically admitting to the nation, they all are looking
over their shoulders. But you're saying you can use that to your advantage. Can you
explain that a little more?
 
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: Basically I think if you're worried about -- obviously Tiger is on
the leaderboard, there's guys out there subconsciously going, "Oh, my God, he's
coming again. Here he comes. Oh, he's past me. Oh, he's won." And those sorts of
things. But that's where I think the guys waste energy. Obviously they're focused on their
game for the first three and a half rounds, and they see Tiger's name up there, so the
energy is lost. If you can just control your own mind and just focus on your own game. I
know it's easy to say and hard to do. 
 
Q. You did it, though? Did you overcome that? Did you feel it happening?
 
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: Oh, yeah, I use certain techniques that I've been taught by this guy
called Dallas Richardson that works on the PGA TOUR, and also the European Tour, works
with all the guys, he's taught me a few games about that type of stuff. So basically block
out the influences. Because Tiger's name on the board influences a lot of players, how
they play. They get defensive. They get too aggressive. And what Dallas taught me in the
last few months helped me. Don't ask me what it is. 
 
Q. I understand. You said you were a couple of strokes behind, and you felt you could
use that to your advantage. I wonder if you felt that influence or fought it off or never
--?
 
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: No, I didn't actually fight it off, I used these techniques to just
make sure I focused and use all my energy on my own game and not his. 
 
Q. What, tell us?
 
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: You've got no chance of finding out.  
 
Q. We've got no chance of using it (laughter.)
 
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: It's like the Colin Montgomerie syndrome in Europe. Every time you
see Monte's name, guys fall away. And obviously Monte is such a dominating force in
Europe. And the guys just crumble, because once again, they go, "Here we go again.
Monte is on the board. He's going to win again." They get so negative about their own
ability, and they just give all that positive stuff to Monte. Same with Tiger. When you
see Tiger's name on the board all the guys go, "There he goes." 
 
Q. That's been the history of golf: "Here comes Hogan. Here comes Nicklaus. Here
comes Michael Jordan" in basketball. The great athletes sort of rise up, and other
people say, "Oh, no, here he comes." If you can keep your mind on your own game,
is that it?
 
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: Basically if you go out and play your own game and see what happens.
I'm the type of person that's easygoing, and go out and play and have fun. The most
important thing I'll do tomorrow is go out and have fun. Obviously it's going to be a lot
of media hype about -- the most common thing we have is we're the same color. We're
sponsored by the same brand, wear the same golf shoes, wear the same socks, different
clothes. 
 
Q. This second round of success, are you enjoying it more this time, is it more
satisfying this time?
 
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: Obviously once you've been through the hard times you really
appreciate the good times more. And I believe there's a reason why things happen. And I
can't understand why it happened to me in '95, but now I do. I'm more of a complete
person, complete as in a family man now. Very happily married for my wife, Julie. And
Thomas is 18 months old. He has put golf in perspective, it's put life in perspective. He
loves me whether I lose tomorrow or win tomorrow. And I miss him. It's hard to be away
from my family now. He's an inspiration to me. He was born in August of '98, and ever
since then my whole golf game has turned around. Because obviously I can't play this game
for the rest of my life. Whether it's ten years' time or 20 years' time down the track, I
have to have different avenues to generate some sort of income. And that means -- I think
I've got another 15 years of good playing ability left. 
 
Q. Where are you going next week?
 
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: I'm playing in Australia next week. I've won 920,000 Australian
dollars, and if I win next week, the Tour Championships, I'll be the first person ever to
make a million dollars. So my goal right now is to go back home next week and play The
Tour Championship and break a million dollars. And also I love to play over here
full-time. I think my game has improved about two or three levels in the last probably
three or four months, but I think for me to go even further, I've got to compete against
these guys on a more regular basis on the PGA TOUR. But I'm very comfortable in Europe, I
have a nice house and nice friends around me. And I've got a few goals to achieve in
Europe yet before I come over and play fulltime over here. 
 
Q. You said you left your wife and your son --?
 
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: My wife is here, actually.  
 
Q. Okay. But they were in Australia with you
 
 ? MICHAEL CAMPBELL: Yes. 
 
Q. But your base is London, Richmond?
 
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: Richmond, also Australia, two places. I spend six months of the year
there, and six months in Australia. 
 
Q. You're not the first golfer who lost his game, and many players have not returned to
the kind of form you've returned to. What response have you met with other players, is it
one of compassion?
 
 MICHAEL CAMPBELL: It's been unbelievable. Greg Norman gave me a wonderful compliment,
accolade. He said, "Michael, you're back where you should be." That was nice of
Greg saying that. And also the feeling I'm getting like at practice this morning and
yesterday and last night for dinner, and all the guys come up, Tim Herron and Nick Price
and Justin Leonard and Colin Montgomerie, and Mark O'Meara and the list goes on, Ernie
Els, and they said, "Well done, welcome back." And it's nice to have that
respect from your fellow peers. The respect that it was there all the time, but finally
it's come back after three years of absence.  
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT