OKLAHOMA CITY THUNDER MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 28, 2018
Alex Abrines
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Alex, what did you make of this season for yourself and for the team?  
ALEX ABRINES: Well, I think right now it's hard to see a positive way after the loss.  But the start of the season was pretty tough to me coming back from the National Team with an injury.  So that kept me off the court for almost like a month, the last training camp, and it was hard to get back in rhythm.  But after a couple months I think I've been finding my spot on the team.   
The team is playing better around December and January, so it was all going in the right direction.  I'm a much better player than I was last year.   
As a team, I just feel like right now we could win more games and be in the semifinals.  I just felt like we didn't play the right way in some certain formats of the game, and that's how it went.  But as I said, losing yesterday, it's kind of early to say that.   
 Q.  Why specifically do you feel you're a better player this year than you were last year?  What areas of your game do you feel you've made major strides?  
ALEX ABRINES: Especially defensively.  I mean, I think just late games in the series we were already one to five, and I was able to play good defense on Mitchell or Joe Ingles, Ricky, whoever was in front of me.  So I think last year we were avoiding that, just playing like short coverage and stuff.  I think all the work we did during the season has been paying off lately.   
 Q.  What value do you think you could get out of an off-season if you could just stay healthy for a full one and get to work on your game for a whole summer?  
ALEX ABRINES: Just keep doing what I've been doing during the year.  Now it's easier because you don't have to play games, so you can focus on certain points of your game.  But especially keep improving on defense and then just develop my offensive game.  Like not just being a shooter, trying to put the ball on the floor, playing some big roles and being able to create for my teammates.   
 Q.  How are you physically right now?  
ALEX ABRINES: Good.  I had some issues in my groin, but we have plenty of time to take care of that.  Besides that, I'm pretty good.   
 Q.  Maybe this is unfair because you shot 38% from three this year, and that's obviously a very good number.  But are you a better three-point shooter now?  Do you expect in your career to shoot better than that?  
ALEX ABRINES: Yeah.  I mean, you just said like 38 is pretty good, but if you're a shooter, you expect to be at least in the 40s.  I've been doing that in Europe before I came here, and I know here you shoot from further distance, but, yeah, I think I can do a better job with that.  I think it's just because I couldn't find my rhythm during the regular season.  I had some really good games scoring five threes, and then I'd have stretches not scoring a three in five, six games.  So I think I've got to work on that and just be more conscious.   
 Q.  What do you have coming this summer?  
ALEX ABRINES: The most important thing in my life, a wedding.  No, I mean, specialist is going to take care of some issues in my body, getting treatment.  Maybe after a couple weeks start working out and whatever the team needs me here in Oklahoma, and then I'll go back to Spain to get my wedding prepared.  Still working on that.   
We've got a training camp for the kids coming up for the first time, and then just keep working, trying to find time in the day to work out and be able to stay with the kids, get married, go to the honeymoon and do all the stuff.   
 Q.  Any specific basketball goals for the summer?  Things you want to work on, get better, and that kind of stuff?  
ALEX ABRINES: Yeah, like I said, especially on offense, ball handling, playing pick-and-rolls.  Obviously it's really important for me because it keeps me on the court from injuries and from feeling pain.  So I'm going to work on that too.   
I think just that, keeping my body healthy and just work on those aspects of the game.   
 Q.  How have the wedding preparations been?  Have you been involved in them at all or is that your fiancee?  
ALEX ABRINES: Yeah, my fiancee did the most part of it, but I'm trying on get involved.  Obviously, right now, I have more time so I'll be able to just get things prepared and done.   
She's going now to Spain, so she'll be able to get meetings done and all the stuff.  But I know I've got to help, and I'll do my best.   
 Q.  Do you like it or is it kind of like, all right, honey, whatever you want?  
ALEX ABRINES: No, no, no.  Sometimes I've got to say no because she wants a lot (laughing).  But, yeah, I try to.  No, I try to give her as much as she wants.  I know it's our day, and it's going to be the best day of our lives, and I just want her to be happy.  So prepare for the wedding for her.  I love you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT