OKLAHOMA CITY THUNDER MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 23, 2016
Alex Abrines
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Was there ever a thought or worry from you that you wouldn't ever make it to the NBA or to the Thunder?  
ALEX ABRINES: No, I mean, it was a tough decision, because I don't like changes too much.  So since I was playing in Málaga in the south of Spain for two years, and I move to Barcelona, it was a tough decision.  This one was even bigger.  So that's why it takes me too long, like three years from the draft to make the decision to come over.  But now I'm here, I'm really happy.   
 Q.  How do you feel physically, knowing in the Olympics you missed a game.  Was that somewhat of a similar injury that you had when you were in Barcelona?  
ALEX ABRINES: No, it was completely different.  It was like a hidden -- and I had like two days off, just because, I don't know how to say it in English.  Like precaution.  So it was not like a big deal.  I'm perfect, my leg, feels perfect right now.   
I'm a little bit tired because I don't know if you've seen a lot of Spanish league, but we had like almost in July, and then we started like a training camp with the national team.  So this summer I had like maybe ten days of holiday.  So it's been a tough summer.  Like ready to start training camp tomorrow.   
 Q.  Could we get the correct pronunciation of your last name?  
ALEX ABRINES: Alex Abrines (A-bree-ness)   
 Q.  What expectations do you have of yourself in your first season of the Thunder?  
ALEX ABRINES: I know it's going to be tough the first year here.  You guys play different here than we play in Europe.  I think I'm going to push myself to the limit.  I think in the beginning of the season, maybe I don't play that much, but I would work to like the end of the season, like important moments to be on the court and just help the team as I can.   
 Q.  Talk about how the season ends late and you went to the national team and this is a longer season than you're playing before.  Are you doing anything different to maintain conditioning-wise for an 82-game season or is it still just the same process?  
ALEX ABRINES: No, I started -- I've been here for two, three weeks, and I've been working out with all those guys from the Thunder and just getting used to the physicality of the game here.  So I will work on that through the next weeks and months.   
 Q.  What are your first impressions of Oklahoma City so far?  
ALEX ABRINES: It's a different city than Barcelona.  I mean, I'm really like a calm guy, so I think the city feels perfect to me.  The lifestyle obviously is different, so first days, I was a little bit confused.  Here you've got to drive everywhere and there in Spain, just walk or you have the train.  So it's kind of different.  I missed Spain but also it's a good city and great people, great people.   
 Q.  How helpful is it for you to have a guy like Sabonis on the team that you know from Spain and have played together?  I guess he knows Spanish, too, since he grew up there.  How helpful is that for you?  
ALEX ABRINES: Really much.  When I realized that Thomas was playing for the Thunder next year, back in summer, that was one of like the things like make me change my mind and made me come over.  It makes things more easier if you have something, somebody, in this case.  And, well, it's his first time in the NBA, so we go through together.   
 Q.  Do you have an expectation in terms of playing time, how much you want to play?  
ALEX ABRINES: Oh, no, I want to play like 48 minutes.  But I know it's going to be tough.  There's a bunch of players, they are really talented and good.  So I don't know, actually here it's different, because you have like 48 minutes.  Back in Europe you have like 40.  So I will not put like a number, but as much as I can.   
 Q.  Is there any players on the team you're leaning on in particular?  A lot of guys have made the jump from Europe.  Has anybody reached out to you in particular?  
ALEX ABRINES: Like the European players?  No, I've been talking to Ersan a lot because he played for Barcelona but not about basketball stuff.  Just like how it's there and he speaks Spanish or something.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT