DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 23, 2019
George Groves
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  EDGA Finale Champion. How does that sound?  
GEORGE GROVES: Feels fantastic. Obviously we have a really strong field out there. It was playing a lot more tougher today than yesterday. Breeze is a little bit more up, about one or two club more wind, but I got the job done.   
Yeah, I'm really, really proud of myself.   
 Q.  What in particular in the game is going really well for you this week?  
GEORGE GROVES: Driving off the tees. Just literally hitting fairways is the key around this course and placement, as well. Obviously the pins are a lot more tucked today in corners and stuff like that. The distance kind of helped me a little bit for obviously getting a bit more spin with my mid-irons and second shots.   
 Q.  How are you going to celebrate this win?  
GEORGE GROVES: I don't know. Got an early flight. I fly at 7.00, so can't be too heavy. I've enjoyed it. I'm going to go back and celebrate with my family and probably celebrate with Mike tonight.   
 Q.  What would you be doing if you weren't playing this well?  
GEORGE GROVES: I don't know. This tour has really changed my life. I think it's just changed me as a person. Changed me as a golfer. I'm just really happy that I've actually managed to basically get into stuff like that. It's really good.   
 Q.  Two more tournaments next year, four in total. When will you start preparing for your defense?  
GEORGE GROVES: When the weather clears up, I think it will be all right. Just practise a lot more on my putting. Left quite a few putts out there, a lot of lipouts yesterday and just couldn't hole a thing today. But that's golf. You can't really hole everything.   
 Q.  With televised tournaments, do you expect more involvement next year from other guys?  
GEORGE GROVES: I hope so. It's really good obviously to get us involved obviously on TV and show other people with disabilities, kind of get more into golf, and instead of lounging around at home, be confident in themselves and kind of get out there and show what you can do.   
 Q.  Sum up again, what's it feel like to be champion?  
GEORGE GROVES: It's fantastic. I'm going to go home very proud of myself, celebrate with my friends and family. It will be really good.   
The putts went in. The greens are very, very hard to read. They are very quick. They are the quickest greens I've found all year, and I knew it would be a struggle coming in today and yesterday. Feels incredible, and I'm just happy to get the win.   
 Q.  You are the world No. 1 after all in the rankings, but what's it like being here and playing on this course, during the week of a tournament, as it's set up for the big players, final event on The Race to Dubai, how cool is it being alongside these guys on the range and on the course?  
GEORGE GROVES: It's unbelievable. Obviously in Scotland earlier in the year, I thought that was incredible, my first time ever going into a European Tour and playing with the pros. Hopefully The European Tour will invite us more and more to show our talents to people on TV and people that come and watch.   
 Q.  For the folks at home, give us an idea how golf has helped you in your journey?  
GEORGE GROVES: When I was younger, obviously I was a footballer, and I was told to basically do exercise for my arm. My parents said, do golf. I went to the range one day and I thought, this could be something. So I took golf up. To come out and win this, be world No. 1 is just incredible. I'm pretty sure I've 100 percent done the right choice.   
 Q.  What's your message for folks at home who may be thinking about anything in life they can't do or people tell them they are not able to do; what's your message for them?  
GEORGE GROVES: My message is try everything you can, even if you struggle, just keep do 100 percent, never give up. That's what I've done, basically.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT