PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2011
Marty Jertson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. First, what's it like to play in this event as a club pro, and what's it mean to you to be out there today?
 MARTY JERTSEN: Well, it's big time. The atmosphere is unbelievable. You know, you get a little different nerves going and the whole experience out here was unbelievable, the condition of the course and the players you're playing with, the caliber of players. It was a lot fun. I experienced some different nerves that I hadn't experienced in a while. It was fun.

 Q. How do you think you responded today?
 MARTY JERTSEN: Not so good the first four holes, but after that I got it together. That kind of gave me a wake-up call, and rattled off three really nice birdies there to come back and get back in it and kind of dogged it out. Obviously the back nine is playing really tough. I made a stupid bogey on 10, but other than that I felt like I -- after the first four holes I played pretty nicely.

 Q. How is the course playing overall?
 MARTY JERTSEN: Good. I mean, some of the tees are up compared to where I've been playing them in the practice rounds. They didn't have it fully stretched out, so I think that's why you saw a couple of guys take it pretty deep, especially in the morning. 
 Into-the-green putts on that Bermuda are getting a little bouncy in the afternoon, but they're still rolling perfect. Obviously the fairways are like everyone has been raving about this week. They're just like carpet. If you're in the fairway, you're money. 

 Q. What do you have to do tomorrow or what's the goal for tomorrow?
 MARTY JERTSEN: Play a solid round and eliminate some of the big mistakes I made today. I putted really good today. I don't know what my stats are, but they're probably pretty good. I'm going to keep rolling the rock and just try and hit the fairway a few more times. 
 But the big goal is to get under par and play a clean round in the morning. I'm going out early. There's some easier holes to open the round with, so I should have a chance to get some momentum going early.

 Q. Do you think starting on the back and in the morning will give you a chance to be more aggressive?
 MARTY JERTSEN: I really do. I mean, 2, 3 and 4 are brutal holes. 1 is not the easiest hole, either. 10, 11, 12, 13, really you can birdie all those holes and then -- they had the tee up on 14. I hit a 9-iron in there today, so that was a birdie hole today, too, almost made birdie there. Definitely, I mean, it's going to be a lot easier starting the back nine and kind of getting the flow of the round before you get to the tough holes on the back and then the first four on the front. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT