NBA DRAFT 2016
June 23, 2016
Ante Zizic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Opening statement, feelings about today, please.   
ANTE ZIZIC: You know, for me it's something special, and it's part of my dream, so really exciting.  I like Boston because Boston is one of my favorite clubs ever.  I don't have words for something or can't tell right now because I'm just still excited.   
 Q.  Danny Ainge and I think his son Austin came and watched you.  What did you talk about and what did he like and what did he not like?  
ANTE ZIZIC: You know, a few times -- he was in Zagreb once and watched my game and probably he liked me because I'm always 100 percent.  I run the floor very well.  I talked a little bit with him but nothing special.  I was not in a workout in Boston.  I was in with other clubs, but I'm thankful because they got me.   
 Q.  Did the Celtics talk to you at all about potentially staying overseas for a year or two and keep developing?  
ANTE ZIZIC: Not yet.  Not yet.   
 Q.  Is that something you would be open to or do you really want to come over here now and play?  
ANTE ZIZIC: Now I'm going to see what's going to happen because I need a day to think about, to talk with the guys from club and everything.   
 Q.  What does it say about Croatian basketball that you and Bender both got drafted in this first round?  
ANTE ZIZIC: You know, Croatia is part of Europe where you got always a lot of young guys, talented guys, and we like basketball.  We practice a lot.  Dragan and I grew up together and from same club.  We played many years, and he's my best friend in basketball.  I am thankful because both of us are selected at a very good spot on the board.   
 Q.  How would you compare yourself to him?  
ANTE ZIZIC: For draft?   
 Q.  To Dragan in terms of your skills.  
ANTE ZIZIC: Like player?  We are different position.  I play center, he was a power forward.  We have a different style of game.  But together we play great.  We got great communication and everything.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT