NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: FLAMES v SHARKS
May 17, 2004
Miikka Kiprusoff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  It looked like you struggled a bit early to get your rhythm, but once you did you were very comfortable.  It looked like maybe it took half a period to get feeling completely right.  Is that an accurate assessment?   
 MIIKKA KIPRUSOFF:  Yeah, it was some weird shots, like, early and I was really a little bit lucky there on those first couple shots.  But after that I felt pretty good.   
  Q.  A lot was written about your record after giving up four goals in a game.  Your now 7-0 in doing that.  Is there a confidence in you bouncing back or is it a determination-type thing for you?   
 MIIKKA KIPRUSOFF:  Yeah, I try not to think of it too much.  I think it's also like how the whole team plays.  We bounce back when we lose and I think that's the biggest thing.   
  Q.  Is there a confidence?  I mean there was talk here when you got traded about confidence and maybe you had lost it after that slow start last year.  Is there more of a confidence this year in those situations maybe even because of the team?   
 MIIKKA KIPRUSOFF:  Yeah.  Like I say, I like to play a lot, and when I went to Calgary, I did get out of action there right away.  And it's easy for me to play if I see a lot of games.   
  Q.  Why do you like playing in this building, both as a team and then yourself, do you think?   
 MIIKKA KIPRUSOFF:  It's not an easy building to play in.  Even when we're winning here now, but it's not the easiest place to play.  They always come hard early in the game.  It's not easy.   
  Q.  Evegeni has really resisted efforts to portray this as a goalie battle and has become annoyed.  But what is your attitude about this whole thing?   
 MIIKKA KIPRUSOFF:  Well, I try to concentrate on my own game and I try to help our team to win and everybody's been asking, is it different?  It's not for me.  It's a conference final and it's enough challenge there for me.   
  Q.  Have you caught Evegeni's eye at all during this whole thing?  Have you acknowledged each other in any way?   
 MIIKKA KIPRUSOFF: No, I haven't.   
  Q.  Have you got a chance to reflect yet on where you were right at the end of training camp and where you are now?  Do you get to think about that at all, thinking I'm not even playing to now I'm in the Western Conference?  Or have you not had time for that?   
 MIIKKA KIPRUSOFF:  Yeah, I been thinking about that.  It's, things change fast here.  And I was real lucky to get in Calgary.  Things have been working well so far.   
  Q.  Did you think sitting out the third period yesterday helped you mentally or physically be more ready tonight?   
 MIIKKA KIPRUSOFF:  I don't know.  It's never fun to get pulled out, when they pull you.  But it was bad and I was, when they pulled me I was already thinking forward to this game and that's it.   
  Q.  Do you feel more pressure at home when you have the whole stadium is full of fans dressed in red?  Do you feel more pressure to win for your fans than you do not road?   
 MIIKKA KIPRUSOFF:  No, actually it's fun to play there and it's weird, like, we couldn't win there last two home games.  But it's not that big of a difference.  But it's still more fun to play back home.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT