UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 11, 2015
Nick Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








NICK MARTIN: He's a great, great player, so obviously I learned a lot from him.  Great role model in my life.  Even before college I always looked up to him.  But when I got here, I would say consistency and how important that is, and who you have to be not just on the field but off the field at all times.  Because when you're in that role as a leader as a captain, especially at a university like this, you're always being watched.  So to be that example at all times and you don't really have any breaks.
Q. How are you guys different?
NICK MARTIN: We're very similar, cut from the same cloth literally, but we are different too.  I mean, I think -- I don't know.  Personality-wise.  I'm probably more outgoing, I would say but on the field we both have that switch and we flip it.  And we know when it's time to go, it's time to go.
Q. I know before the season we talked about leadership depth on this team where there are so many leaders at so many different positions.  How has that played out where we're into mid-November and you guys are in a playoff race.  How has the depth of leaders that you guys had helped you out so far?
NICK MARTIN: It's helped a lot.  Obviously, we've had a lot of injuries up front, not that those guys respect leaders anymore.  But sometimes when we're not around as much, we're not in the mix.  So it's difficult, it puts them in a difficult position.  But people have stepped up at every position, every which way, because sometimes guys aren't there always, and whether it's a bad play or something's going on outside of their life, other people have to step up.  That's part of the game of our life.
Q. How does that leadership depth help you guys practice better mid week?
NICK MARTIN: People are just more focused.  When you look around and you see those people are locked in or they call you out, you're like, all right, well, I've got to get my shit together.  I've got to get going.
Q. When you see Sheldon on the other side leading the defensive line group, does anything stand out not just for the D-line group but the defense as a whole?
NICK MARTIN: Yeah, I mean, he's one of those guys that he's on every play.  There is not a time that he's not, and he sets the standard, the defensive standard.  One of those guys you can lean on no matter what's going on and that's huge.
Q. Coach Kelly was talking about a little variation you guys had in practice last week with regard to red zone preparation.  You did some things together.  I'm trying to look for the exact words that he used.  But where he talked more about the nuances of the plays in the red zone and he thought it was a little bit more focused.  I don't know if that is necessarily applicable to you guys up front, but did you, being 4 for 4 in the red zone last week with touchdowns, obviously it's something he's going to want to do again this week.
NICK MARTIN: Yeah, absolutely.  That was an emphasis we put on.  Get six, seven points in the red zone.  We don't want to come up with a field goal.  We want to get the ball in there.  We did that.  We harped on it.  It's something we'll continue to harp on as an offense and offensive line in that situation.  People are going to bring different blitzes and load the box, and we've got to pick it up and give time to Josh or C.J. or whoever it is, and get the ball carried into the end zone.
Q. Was there anything during the week of practice that made it more tangible for you guys?
NICK MARTIN: I would say the biggest thing was putting an emphasis on it.  Whether that be more film study of watching people in the red zone defense or whether it just be practicing and play-wise, but, yeah.
Q. Talk about leadership, Coach Kelly was talking about how one of the reasons Ronnie came back was to become more of a leader.  Have you seen that this year?  If so, how has he been more of a leader this year?
NICK MARTIN: Yeah, I have seen this that this year.  One in his voice.  He's been more demanding and more commanding just in his voice and how he demands from other people.  A lot of times it's the ultimate team sport, but you have to prepare and play individually and have that performance.  So sometimes when you're focusing on yourself, it's hard to make other people around you better.  And I thought that's where he got out of his shell and he's done a great job this year.
Q. Did you talk to him at all when he was going through the process?  What role did you play in it?
NICK MARTIN: Yeah, Ryan's one of my really good -- one of my best friends.  I've been with him every day for the past four, five years.  I was honest with him.  I told him I want you back.  I want to play our senior years together, but I'm not going to be that guy that puts pressure on you.  I know other people are doing that.  I just told him I'm going to be his friend either way, whatever he decides.  But obviously I want to play with him again.
Q. What do you think Saturday will be like as the final Senior Day?
NICK MARTIN: It's going to be special.  They all are.  Especially this stadium, this team, and what we've all done the past four or five years here.  But still we've got a mission to do, we've still got a team to beat, and you have to control those emotions until after the game.
Q. Your parents I imagined are seasoned veterans at Senior Day now?
NICK MARTIN: Yeah, four straight, I believe.
Q. Have they given you any advice since they've now been through it quite a bit?
NICK MARTIN: You know what?  Last year we just kind of laughed when I ran on the field.  It was more just you've got one more of these.  What are we doing here?  I'd probably say with the years before, not saying Zach's wasn't special, but we knew we had a couple more years left.  But, no, this one is different.
I think they've been -- obviously we had some overlap, but I think it's their 7th or 8th season straight, and I'm the youngest.  So they haven't missed a game for sure since I've been here.  So it's kind of coming to an end.  It's a special thing.  New chapter is going to be exciting, but this has been an unbelievable journey and a special place.
Q. What was it like experiencing the run that this team made in 2012?
NICK MARTIN: I mean, 12-0, there is nothing better.  The amount of time we put in when you win, that is the goal, always is.  Just people are happy, people are excited, and that's what you strive for.
Q. What is the excitement level around the team going into this senior week versus last year's?  Obviously at that point you guys had started losing a couple games, whereas this year you're very much in the hunt for the playoffs.
NICK MARTIN: People are excited.  They're focused.  That focused energy, which is awesome.  We have a mission, we've had it since day one, and it's to the point where that's in reach.  But right now you focus on it, and right now our mission is Wake Forest.  If people can focus in on that, that's what we'll get done.
Q. Did you watch the show last night and what was your reaction when you guys got in that top four?
NICK MARTIN: Yeah, it was on in the locker room.  People were very happy.  That was a cool thing.  It's one of those things where it's good when people get excited to see that that mission is in reach, and then you've got to focus in and use that energy and focus in on Wake Forest.
Q. A quick follow-up, they brought up 2012, and I'm wondering, you've been a contributor for four years and three year starter.  Do you have a game that will always stick with you as your favorite game played here?  I could assume it could start from that season, but you started all the other years.
NICK MARTIN: It is.  Favorite game, I don't know if I have one in particular.  But I do remember a moment in 2012, I had gotten -- Chris rolled his ankle and I went in on senior night against Wake Forest, actually.  I was playing left guard next to Zack.  We ran inside zone and actually scored on that play.  That was pretty cool to get a touchdown literally playing right next to my brother.  That was a cool moment.
Q. Did you throw the key block or was there one?
NICK MARTIN: It was actually three down.  So I went up to the backer, so, yeah, I had to block.  I contributed just as the other ten guys did.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT