UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 30, 2015
Nick Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
An Interview With:   
NICK MARTIN   
 Q.  Nick, did the dynamic of the offensive line change greatly when there was a change at quarterback with you guys this season or is it business as usual with this group?  
NICK MARTIN: No.  It's business as usual.  We like to keep things the same up front, we have to prepare the same way and we gotta play the same way.  Doesn't matter who's behind us.   
 Q.  What's the message for guys that have experience in big games like this on the road for the guys that maybe are doing this for the first time, don't have a lot of experience playing in front of a hostile crowd like this?  
NICK MARTIN: Go back to basics, rely on your fundamentals and preparation.  It's going to be loud, but after a few series, you'll get used to it, and honestly, enjoy it because they're fun.  A lot of people don't get these opportunities.  This is something you'll remember for the rest of your life.   
 Q.  I know DeShone mentioned that he didn't play the game at Florida State, but the loudest place he's been, he said it was ringing on the inside it was so loud.  You've been doing this for four years now.  What's the loudest environment you've played in and enjoyed?  
NICK MARTIN: Well, Florida State was definitely one of them, and I would say probably the loudest was Michigan, like in 2013.  My first away game starting silent cadence.  They set the record for stadium goals like this and you can't hear the person next to you.  But it was also probably one of the more fun games you play in.  That's why you play, for those moments.   
 Q.  You said you get used to it a couple series in.  Do you notice, I guess, warming up, this is why I'm here, this is fun and then all of a sudden, like holy cow.  
NICK MARTIN: Yeah.  No, it definitely -- obviously you kind of realize before the game and everything, but after that, I mean definitely the first series, when they get going, I mean you can't hear anything.   
 Q.  And on that topic, Coach Kelly mentioned obviously silent cadence is going to be involved in the game at Clemson.  Any advantages for an offense using silent cadence?  
NICK MARTIN: You practice it every week, you know.  You practice it, you do it.  It's kind of one of those things.   
 Q.  Between you and DeShone, I understand the dynamics, but who does it challenge most on the offense?  Is it the wide receivers or is it the tackles when they have to rely on that?  And DeShone mentioned that you would actually be saying go.  
NICK MARTIN: Yeah.  No, I do.  That call at some points in the game the guards should get it; tackles probably won't.  I would say, depending on the down, certainly the tackles obviously having more athletic pass rushers out there, definitely challenge.  That's what I say, you go back to basics, you rely on your fundamentals.   
 Q.  Everyone seems to say that you guys kind of have that nasty edge about you on the offensive line.  How much do you enjoy being the guys that kind of bring the edge to this team?  
NICK MARTIN: I mean you love it.  That's who we are or who we try to be.  That's our job, too, especially running the ball, you gotta get after people.  It's the mentality we have.  It's a sense of pride.   
 Q.  Are you ever surprised with how everyone describes DeShone as they use the same words poised; you know, he's comfortable.  Are you ever surprised by the way he kind of carries himself while he's on the field?  
NICK MARTIN: No.  You know, he does it every day.  He's the same guy every day.  And when you do that, it's easier to fall back on that.   
 Q.  And then with C.J. Prosise, what are the biggest changes that you've seen in him?  This is still a new position for him, but he's tearing it up.  What have you seen him develop in the most as far as a running back goes?  
NICK MARTIN: He has unbelievable vision.  Obviously he's one of the biggest.  His pass blocking is getting better, protection.  His break-away speed still surprises me.  I mean one of the first touchdowns or whatever it was, he turned that corner and I thought he was going to be out of bounds and he was just gone.  It's fun to watch, fun to block for.  Sometimes you don't see it during the game, but you see it on film, he's getting four or five extra yards, somehow staying up.  He's a fighter.   
 Q.  We were talking to DeShone about setting protections, and he said working with the offensive line, even if he's wrong, usually he's right because you guys sort of clean it up.  How often is he right?  I mean what's his batting average there?  
NICK MARTIN: The majority of the time.  You know, there's been a few instances where things happen.  But for the most part he is right.  And that helps.  He's a very intelligent quarterback.  We do what we can.  Sometimes if he's not, we'll try to take the protection.  If not, he'll know who he's hot off of and he'll make a play.   
 Q.  How much time do you spend with him away from this building or away from practice just going over stuff?  He mentioned that he's spent a lot more time with you over the last few weeks than he ever had before.  
NICK MARTIN: Yeah.  Absolutely.  Film wise, O line is always watching film, and obviously different guys pop in, whether it be tight ends, quarterbacks, running backs.  And outside, too, that's one thing, I think we developed to talk not about football.  That's one thing I learned, especially with Malik, is getting to know him off the field more as a person and how much that really converts when you're playing and how much that comfort level you have and trust you build.   
 Q.  Why do you think that matters what you guys do away, just like hang out at your apartment?  
NICK MARTIN: Yeah, exactly.  It builds a bond.  I mean obviously just being a teammate you automatically have the bond what you go through.  But having a bond outside the field, you know, I feel it goes -- that's why the O line is always together.  I mean it's a cohesive group.  And when you get on that field, you gotta trust them.  He's gotta trust us with, I guess you could say -- you don't want to say his life.  But it is.  We mess up up front, he pays for it, we don't.  And that's why it gives us a sense of pride.  You gotta lay your life on the line for your brother.   
 Q.  You don't go against Rochell a whole lot, but I'm sure you've had some encounters with him over the last few years.  Where do you think he's better as a player?  Where have you seen him improve most over the last few years?  
NICK MARTIN: Really his consistency, especially in camp more so when we were against him, he's doing his job.  Obviously we don't get to watch too much of how he plays, whether he makes plays or not.  But that's one thing I notice is he's going to be doing his job, and that's a reliable player.   
 Q.  Thinking about the running game, it's been a long time since Notre Dame's put up these type of numbers with the running game.  You must have so much pride in that and in a game like this knowing that you can grind it out if you need to.  Just talk about that, just how maybe the running game has come together and maybe you'll have to lean on that just a little bit more this game?  
NICK MARTIN: Yeah, absolutely.  Like you said, it's a sense of pride.  As an O lineman we love to run the ball.  We like when we have success.  Going back to our running backs, the way they run, you guys have all seen it.  It's unbelievable.  Up front, we work our butts off to try and make holes and do our best.  But beyond that also, it's about the people that come before you, too.  The O lines, having guys like Chris Watt, Zack Martin, Christian Lombard, those guys, and even before that, the O line at Notre Dame, especially in the 90s and ever since then, has always been a sense of pride, and we just try to carry that on.   
 Q.  And maybe some of the toughness you've seen in DeShone.  He gives you a lot of credit that he can look in your eyes and trust you, but is there an example of when you looked in his eyes and said, wow, this kid's getting it?  
NICK MARTIN: Yeah.  The poise he showed in the first Virginia game, in that situation obviously he did well.  But even after that, the way he handled himself in Georgia Tech, first home start, did well.  Not to dwell in the past, but UMass.  It's a team you can overlook.  Obviously you got Clemson the week before.  But in college football anyone can beat anyone on any given day.  I thought he handled himself really well, prepared the right way.  And that's a veteran move.   
 Q.  Is that something you don't even worry about now?  It's only been a couple of games.  
NICK MARTIN: Yeah.  No, I don't.  It goes back to that trust and comfort level.  He's a football player.  He was recruited for this system, and he's doing well.   
 Q.  You've mentioned you've got to spend a lot more time with DeShone talking about non-football things.  What's DeShone's way of escaping all this pressure that you've kind of gotten to see firsthand?  
NICK MARTIN: Yeah.  Really, just get away from it.  You know, just hang out with the guys and not always talk about football.  You know, during the season you really don't have a life outside of football, at all.  But that's why we do it.  We love it.  And it is, it's kind of just getting away from it, relaxing, not having to do with those pressures.  Just talking, watching TV, playing video games.  Whatever it is, just kind of getting away.   
 Q.  What video game can he beat you at?  
NICK MARTIN: Oh, man.  I'm not a big video game guy, so probably anything.  We had a league -- I don't even know why I'm telling you this, but we had a league, Will Fuller literally beat me about 100 points in Madden.  So that explains to you how bad I am.   
 Q.  What's his strong suit then?  
NICK MARTIN: Will?   
 Q.  DeShone.  
NICK MARTIN: Oh.  You know, read defenses, whatever.  He's a quarterback.  (Laughs).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT