ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 7, 2014
Natasha Howard
Sue Semrau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









COACH SUE SEMRAU:   They're undefeated for a reason.   And they know what they want to do and they do it.   And they expose you when you're not as confident in who you are.
We've had some ups and downs this year, and part of that is habits.   We don't have a lot of the habits that we need to have as a team that has freshmen and sophomores.   The one on my left here has habits, and you can see what four years in our program ‑‑ a kid that goes to work every single day.
Everybody keys in on her and she still has 29.   I know she's three rebounds away from being our all‑time rebounder.   That's an amazing feat.   Extremely proud of her and exciting to play in the NCAA tournament. 

Q.   Coach, as you prepare for the rest of postseason now what things did you learn positively and negatively about your team? 
COACH SUE SEMRAU:   Well, I think we showed a lot of resilience and a lot of fight with the young kids.   In the second half we could have packed it in, to play them even in the second half and to battle and to fight, I'm proud of them for that.   But again I think what we learned is more for what we want to be as a program.   And if we're working to build a top ten program then we learned what that takes.
When Ariel Braker is willing to shoot one shot and be in the starting lineup and go to work and do what she needs to do, that's what we've got to have is kids that are willing to do whatever it takes to win.   Natasha did that in our program for three years.   She wasn't our leading scorer last year.   We have five kids that scored in double figures.   Natasha has been somebody that's willing to do whatever it takes.   Now you see the fruit of the labor.   And it's really exciting for her. 

Q.   What did they do well to take her out of the offense? 
COACH SUE SEMRAU:   I think she was trying to get more people involved, honestly.   We always want to get Tash involved, and we wanted to run some shot clock, as well, because they're so prolific with their scoring ability.   Unfortunately she didn't shoot great.   But she ran for 40 minutes, and that's always something that she gives us. 
You look at Lindsay Allen, she does the same thing for them.   And we've just got to get some kids that have some confidence around them, going into the tournament time. 

Q.   Natasha, you're two games in a row, pretty strong performances.   What are you going to take away from these performances, why were you so successful in these two games? 
NATASHA HOWARD:   Just battling day in and day out, not giving up, just fighting for my teammates every single game, no matter if we came up with a win or a loss.   Just battle with my teammates. 

Q.   You've seen a lot of great ACC teams.   How does this Notre Dame compare with the best you've seen? 
COACH SUE SEMRAU:   They're, I would say, up there.   The thing that great ACC teams in the past have been able to do is pass the ball.   And I see them as ‑‑ when you have 24 assists in a game, that's pretty incredible.   And great scorers on the other side that can knock it down.   But they don't want to just play up and down and hully gully, they want to defend, too.   And they do a great job of that. 
And Muffet has done a great job with this team.   She's put people in position where they know what they're good at and they stick with the game plan.   And different people can have good nights.   They have a lot of good weapons. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT