ITALIAN OPEN
October 12, 2019
Soren Kjeldsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You must be pleased with 5-under, 66?  
SØREN KJELDSEN: It's a great round. This week has been very positive. It's been a tough season for me and I've really to battle. A few things, the positive seems to be a little easier to putt down again now.   
I feel I'm doing a lot of good stuff. The last doesn't worry me too much. I made five birdies in a row there on the front. Lots of positives and I'm very, very happy.   
 Q.  The birdies on the front nine must have put you in a good mood for the rest of the round.  
SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, this is a tough course, and it's a long course. I put the ball in the fairway, but I don't really hit my driver that great. But I hit it pretty straight, and seemed to hit a lot of 4-irons in there.   
To make five birdies in a row there, a lot of them with 4-irons and a chip-in and stuff like that, was pretty nice.   
 Q.  The commentators were saying you're not one of the longest off the tee, but your iron play has been superb so far. Has that pleased you?  
SØREN KJELDSEN: Very, but to be fair, if I look at this season, I'm trying to find that high draw off the tee, and it's very difficult for me. This week, I've played with the low cut off the tee, and I seem to do that when I was Top-50 in the world, as well.   
So sometimes you try to get to the next level and then you get worse, and this week, I've been doing what I know I can do, and that's the pleasing part. Like you say, generally when I've played my best, I've put it in play and arrive got good iron play and good short game.   
 Q.  You're just outside the top 90 in The Race to Dubai. What was the mind-set coming into the week? A good result here can push you up the rankings.  
SØREN KJELDSEN: With the year that I've had, I haven't really been looking much at that. I wanted to get some kind of momentum going into next season. Like I said, it's been tough.   
For me, it's really trying to get a few positives before the end of the year, and you know, who knows if I have a good day tomorrow, things could change a little bit. But I'm trying to take like tiny steps because I mean, it's been a lot of downhill stuff this year, and I'm trying to climb the ladder a little bit again now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT