BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 24, 2018
Soren Kjeldsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Looks like 13 gave you a shot of adrenaline but it was just too much?
SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, I hit two decent shots there on 14 and then 3-putted that.  Hit it in the rough on 15.  You know, little things.  Good chance on 16.  Didn't get up-and-down on 17.  Yeah, so obviously felt like I could have shot a little bit lower there but playing lovely.  Gave myself a lot of chances and wasn't to be today but if I can continue to play like that, I should be up there a bit more.
Q. When your fellow countryman puts down the hammer and shoots a 61, what does that do to the morale?  Does it show you there's more out there or is it just work?
SØREN KJELDSEN: I got off to a good start and after the sixth hole, I saw he was finished.  I thought, all right, there must be a few chances on the back nine and there were a lot of chances there but obviously great round by Thorbjørn.  But we can't be surprised about that.
Q. Were you pain-free this week?  You had to do a lot of work in the gym to get through the season:
SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, my back is great at the moment.  The guys at the physio are doing tremendous work.  I was joking this week; I'm a bit like Thomas Björn at the moment.  We need to get pick-ups at the hotel three hours before our tee time.  It's long days at the moment to get the body working but it's a lot better than what it's been, and I've had no pain this week so it's been great.
Q. Danish golf is in a good place, of course got The Ryder Cup captain, and I think this is the first time not only is there a Top-10 but three Danes in the top 5.  Looking good going forward?
SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, it is.  It's nice.  We've got a nice tradition going, really, from Thomas Björn and since then, it just seems like, you know, sometimes it looks like nobody is coming from behind, and then suddenly they are there.  You know, obviously Thorbjørn has been out for a while and Lucas is starting to play great and I'm sure a couple of new ones are going to pop up out of nowhere.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT