MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2016
Soren Kjeldsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SOREN KJELDSEN: It was a good day. It was a tough spot, bogey, bogey, spot, and then I played great after that. Really glad to turn with level par. And then two soft bogeys again on 10 and 11. And then I thought I fought really hard after that, played well. And overall really good day. 

Q. What would you prefer tomorrow for conditions?
SOREN KJELDSEN: Well, I'd like it to be like it's been the last three days. I think it's been fantastic. Obviously it's going to be a little bit calmer. I'm not going‑‑ I can decide a lot of things, but the weather I can't control. So I'm going to enjoy that calmer conditions, maybe we can get a few birdies.

Q. You look very confident in the moment.
SOREN KJELDSEN: I'm really happy. And I think the main thing is sort of mentally I've been really relaxed. I really enjoyed it. I think no matter what happens tomorrow I've learned a lot today. Because I play a lot of weeks where I think I put way too much pressure on me. And you three‑putt the second hole of the tournament and you go crazy. And this week I've just been so calm, I've really enjoyed it. And I think my level has definitely improved.

Q. Any reason for that?
SOREN KJELDSEN: I think I got myself worked up so badly last week that I got here and I just felt a little ‑‑ not flat, but I couldn't get more uptight. So I was crazy last week.
And then this week I didn't seem to have the energy to be so uptight. So I just enjoyed it.

Q. Bernhard Langer?
SOREN KJELDSEN: He's a legend. He's always been the guy for me to look at. And obviously the way I grip my putter is because of him, as well. 
I was so pleased growing up watching him and being a big fan of his, getting to know him a little bit and realize that he is exactly what you want him to be. He's fantastic. He's the pro's pro. He's a gentleman. That's why people love him.
In a way, we're not really that surprised, are we? He's killing the Champions Tour. And the guy is amazing.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT