EURASIA CUP PRESENTED BY DRB-HICOM
January 17, 2016
Soren Kjeldsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts on a 3 & 2 victory?
SØREN KJELDSEN: I played really solid.  Struggled to make any putts really and then finally, was it 14 and 16, made some nice putts there.  So it was nice.  Alastair was getting really involved in the putting and I felt like maybe over-complicating it a little bit, so on 14 I decided, I'm going to pick a line here.  In the Pro-Am I made a lot of putts, so I just decided I'm going to stick to what I see and try to hit good putts.  It's nice to see a couple drop.
Q. Do you stay concentrated when the Cup has already been won a while ago?
SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, it was important for me, after two halves there, Darren said to me this morning, no matter what happens, you concentrate on your match and you go and win for yourself, and for Europe.  But I felt after two halves and everybody has been playing so great, it was important for me to get a full point on the board.
Q. I think it goes without saying that you've enjoyed this week, but what have you gained from playing a team event?
SØREN KJELDSEN: It's just been so nice to be part of a team, and to have Darren and Poulter and Westwood every night standing up, explaining what's the challenges of tomorrow, and the fire in their eyes.  We have all seen it on TV for The Ryder Cup and that, but you could really sense this week that it was massive for them, as well, and I think that lifted all of us.
Because you know they have done it all a million times before, and you sort of wonder, you know, do they really get fired up for EurAsia Cup when they have played so many Ryder Cups.  But you could really sense EurAsia Cup was massive for them, and I think that made us feel like we were part of something big, as well.  So it was really nice.  They have been tremendous and we have just sort of tried to soak up all their experience.  All in all, it's just been really fantastic.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT