EURASIA CUP PRESENTED BY DRB-HICOM
January 13, 2016
Soren Kjeldsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How does it feel to be part of a team event this week?  
SØREN KJELDSEN: It's great.  It's one of the things I really wanted to achieve last year was to make this team.  So I'm delighted to be here.  It's the first week and it's nice, the atmosphere is nice and relaxed, and probably come Friday, it's going to get a little bit more tense.  But lovely atmosphere to start out the year.   
 Q.  What's your experience of playing as a team?  
SØREN KJELDSEN: Well, I've played the Seve Trophy and I played the Royal Trophy, so I played quite a bit.  But I love team events.  It's great fun and it's a good opportunity to sort of, you know, spend time with the other guys in a different manner.  So not just under competition, but having a table tennis match or something like that in the team room, it's great fun.  I'm just really enjoying it.   
 Q.  Week-in, week-out, you're playing very much as an individual, so how does it change when you're in a team environment?  How do you change your approach?  
SØREN KJELDSEN: I just enjoy the whole thing.  I think when you're on the golf course, fourballs and foursomes, you try and sort of get into your own thing.  But you know, so far, it's just great.  It's different but when you're over the shot, it's the same thing.  But it's nice to play for not just yourself.  It's nice to have that team feeling.   
 Q.  It's very early in the week, but how is this team shaping?  How is the captaincy of Darren Clarke?  
SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, very good.  Team seems really happy.  I think Darren's made a few, I think surprising pairings.  But I was certainly pleasantly surprised.  I've got a great partner, so I'm delighted.   
 Q.  Almost gave the game away.  We're not meant to know these things just yet?  
SØREN KJELDSEN: You're not going to get anything out of me, but I'll just say I'm delighted with the guy I'm playing with and he's playing incredible golf.   
 Q.  Are you delighted with the place you're playing and the heat?  How are you coping with that?  
SØREN KJELDSEN: I love the heat.  We were just talking about it today.  I'm not very keen on the cold.  You know, it gets a little extreme here but I enjoy that.  Keeps you nice and loose.  I'm not 25 like some of the other guys in there.  I need some heat to warm my muscles.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT