BMW MASTERS
November 15, 2015
Soren Kjeldsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about an exceptional way to finish this golf tournament, isn't it?  
SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, it is really nice.  I've been fighting a little bit on the greens, and sort of -- probably yesterday was -- well, I suppose on Friday, I started to get an idea of what I was doing and how I was going to practice it, and today I putted nicely.  The only bad putt I hit was on the last.  So I'm trying to forget that one.  I putted nicely and obviously played really good.   
 Q.  Were you conscious of just how that was building up this leaderboard?  
SØREN KJELDSEN: Well, I actually looked a little bit.  Normally I don't look at boards, but if I sort of know that I'm doing well; today, I knew I was a bit too far behind, so I sort of used it as a bit of motivation.  I could see the guys weren't moving a whole lot.  So I tried to stay aggressive and make some more birdies.   
 Q.  Which is very nice, isn't it, because it will be a very tidy finish come what way, at the moment, you're top five?  
SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, I'm really pleased with it.  I finished well in Turkey and then last week, I finished really badly on the Sunday and then sort of this week, I was struggling to get going a little bit, even though I felt like the game was okay.   
It's really nice, because you want to finish on a high.  You want to go to Dubai with momentum and this is certainly going to give me that.  The worst thing is having a really nice season and then sort of finishing on that bit of a low.  So I'm really trying to get my head in the right place and keep playing well.   
 Q.  You like Dubai; you like that final-ending series tournament?  
SØREN KJELDSEN: Well, I haven't been there the last two years, so just to be there is brilliant and I'm really looking forward to it.  I've played well in the past, semi-decent rounds there, so I look forward to coming back.  My game is in good shape so hopefully I can do a little better than I have in the past.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT