BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
October 9, 2015
Soren Kjeldsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tell us about the little chip-in on 3?
SOREN KJELDSEN: It was nice.  A little bit of a slow start.  Made a good birdie on 17 to get back.  Make a nice birdie on 1, and then poor bogey on 2, really.  Hit a bad second shot on 3 into the bunker there.
And then I holed that nice bunker shot and that sort of set me up for the back nine.  I played well after that.
Q. Just watched your approach shot into 7, where the ball pitched and run through the green.  Is that a sign of how things have changed from yesterday?
SOREN KJELDSEN: For sure.  Thankfully it's firming up a little bit.  I thought the course was playing really nicely today.  To be fair, it came in like a bullet.  I could have hit it with a little more height than I did.  It's firming up nicely and it's good because the course is only going to get better if it gets firmer.
Q. It still a long way to go.  You are leading at the moment.  The fact that you have won on tour this year, taking that winning mentality into the weekend, will that help?
SOREN KJELDSEN: Well, it should.  It can't hurt.  To be honest with you, I'm not really into all that -- I haven't looked at any results.  I didn't even realize I was leading until I saw you.  So I just want to keep doing what I'm doing.  I enjoy myself, going through the process and hitting some nice shots.
Q. Do you feel you are playing as best as you have played in your career this current spell?
SOREN KJELDSEN: It's not far off.  It's been really good the last six months.  But still, I've been to 31 in the world and right now I'm 59.  So to be able to say that I'm better than ever, I need to play on that level a little bit.
Q. A good performance here could get you inside the Top-10 on the Race to Dubai, which is always nice to see when you look at that standings?
SOREN KJELDSEN: I'm not going to look at that.  I'm playing really well and I'm really enjoying this.  I feel I'm learning little things every day, growing with the game and for me it's amazing..






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT