BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
October 8, 2015
Soren Kjeldsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great opening round of golf.  That was a fantastic approach into 18.  On what's a difficult green, you gave yourself a great chance for the birdie?  
SOREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, I did.  I hit a decent drive, not my best but it was just sort of in the semi there.  I've got a new club in the bag this week.  It's like a driving iron.  I suppose it's between a 2- and 3-iron.  It was perfect yardage for that.  Nice to hit a shot like that with a new club, you feel like you made the right move of changing it.   
 Q.  There aren't too many players that are going around here bogey free at the moment.  That must have pleased you also?  
SOREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, to be honest, I think I only probably missed about two greens.  There wasn't a whole lot of scrambling involved.  I hit it nicely off the tee and hit a lot of solid iron shots and gave myself a lot of chances.  Golf is not always stress free, but it was pretty stress free today.   
 Q.  How did you find it out there with the crowds?  Great atmosphere here today.  The course is set up perfectly.  Obviously you enjoyed it by the scoring, but it was a good experience for you?  
SOREN KJELDSEN: It's absolutely brilliant.  All the players are so happy to be back at Woburn.  I was watching about 20 minutes of the coverage before I went out and with the blue skies and the tall trees and all that, it's just a fantastic venue.  The atmosphere was great, which it is always is in Great Britain.  Really nice to be back.   
 Q.  Six Top-10s this year, including a victory.  Has this season exceeded your expectations?  
SOREN KJELDSEN: Well, that's a tricky one.  I mean, if you asked me 12 months ago whether I would be in this situation, I would probably doubt it very much.  Obviously you set your ambitions pretty high, but it's been a terrific season for me, no question about that.  I'm just really, really happy and that's why I continue playing..   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT