DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
May 28, 2015
Soren Kjeldsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SOREN KJELDSEN:   I played really well the whole day really.   Had a couple of‑‑ I three‑putted 9, which was, you know, it was a long putt there.   I three‑putted 10 as well, and had a 6, you know, on the last.   But I had a lot of good stuff for me, and I never really got into any trouble.   Even on 18 I hit a good drive, ended up in the bunker.
So it was really‑‑ you know, lots of crosswinds.   Lots of wind from the left there from the beginning.   I hit some great drives and made some good putts. 
So it was nice because the last two weeks I've played well, and I seemed to carry it on to this week as well.

Q.   You just focused on some of the bad stuff, but honestly, right, it's the positives you have to stress because you know the bad stuff's going to come in these conditions, don't you, really?
SOREN KJELDSEN:   Yeah.   Absolutely.   I knew it was going to be really tough.   But you know, when you hit the ball well and stay out of trouble, you feel like you can shoot a score. 
And I played really, really solid today.   It was a great round.

Q.   Is it four seasons in one day out there, because you had a mix of everything. 
SOREN KJELDSEN:   Four seasons, but with rain gear and four layers.   So I don't know if you would call it four seasons.   When it's four seasons, it's supposed to be warm as well.   Never really got warm.   We saw the sun come out a couple of times, which was nice, but never really got warm.

Q.   How much of a masochist are you?   Do you ever enjoy playing in these condition of conditions, the challenge it offers?
SOREN KJELDSEN:   Yeah, to place it course is great because the golf is so different.   You know, Wentworth last week was great, but this is the complete opposite.   And you need to shape shots.   You need to, you know, change the trajectory a lot and all the crosswinds and all the chipping and all that, there's no standard shots out there, which is really a lot of fun.

Q.   You grew up in those kind of conditions.
SOREN KJELDSEN:   Yeah, I do.   I come from a windy place.   So playing in the wind and conditions I sort of grew up doing that.   So I enjoy that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT