BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 29, 2011
Soren Kjeldsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   SØREN KJELDSEN: Got off to a little bit of a slow start and then what I caught fire, I kept it going. I think I made six birdies in seven holes I think, so I got it going so it was great.  
  
  Q. We wondered if you literally caught fire because after that things happened.   
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, I don't know, I mean, I came out and I felt okay. The first few holes were playing quite long this morning and then sort of after I birdied 15, I sort of seemed to have settled down a bit and then started hitting it a little closer and making the putts.  
  
  Q. Just getting the range on a course with so many changes in elevation, it must be pretty tricky out there.   
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Definitely, yeah. But there wasn't much wind so after the sort of cold wind, it was only, you know, well, there's a lot of elevation, and there's a lot of contours and that on the green so it's not that easy to get it close but I seemed to take advantage of the short irons I had. I hit them close and then made pars on the long irons and made some good ones with the short irons.  
  
  Q. Give us a highlight.   
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Highlight, well, I mean, I hit a great third shot into 15. That pin was quite tight. Hit an 8-iron to six feet and made that. Sort of seemed to get me going.   
 From then on I hit it sort of within ten feet probably and made the putts there, so it was just nice, solid stuff and converting.  
  
  Q. The evidence of the score says it wasn't hard but has it been awkward to adjust from a wide-open track in China with plenty of birdies to something like this which is colder and trickier?  
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Certainly different but I think the key for me is I focus on what I do. That hasn't changed. Obviously the conditions are very different, but you try to keep it sort of within you, and you play the game that you want to play, and then don't it think about too much the other stuff.  
  
  Q. Give us an appreciation of what Brett Rumford is doing at the moment.   
 SØREN KJELDSEN: That's just unbelievable. I just saw that. He's 10-under for the day. But yeah, especially I thought on the front nine, a lot of short irons, and fairly generous pins. So you can make some birdies on the front nine. But he seems to be making it on the back nine as well, so good for him.   
  
  Q. How long have you been with Rich?   
 SØREN KJELDSEN: This is my third week. So it's been fantastic. He's such a good caddie, he really is, and he's made a big difference.  
  
  Q. He was in demand.   
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, that's right.   
  
  Q. And he picked you.   
 SØREN KJELDSEN: I felt quite lucky to get in there, took that as a compliment and then we are taking it from there.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT