VIVENDI CUP 2010
September 24, 2010
Soren Kjeldsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 9-under after two rounds, how did it go out there for you today?
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, I played nicely. I had a lot of chances and played pretty solid all the way around. I had a bit of a bad finish but played nicely. 

 Q. How different were conditions out there today?
 SØREN KJELDSEN: It was playing a lot longer. Yesterday everything was quite short. The ball was going a long way and this morning it was going nowhere, so big difference. Seems to be the sun has come out a little bit now but it was certainly very different.

 Q. How do you rate your game as a whole at the moment? 
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Recently it's been about one out of ten, and these two rounds have been seven out of ten. So it's been a lot better. Big improvement so pretty pleased.

 Q. What about the fourball, playing with an amateur for the first few days, how did you like that?
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, we had a good time. I had a good partner. Stephane played well and made an eagle today, net two on a par 5 and that's pretty good. I played with McGinley and Dermot, as well. We had a good time. It was a good fourball.

 Q. So you have been one out of ten recently; yesterday and today, seven out of ten; what can we expect over the weekend? 
 SØREN KJELDSEN: I don't know really. Just try to build two good rounds and try to build on that. I'm trying to not look too far into the future. 

 Q. This is a good knock over two days. 
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, I played nicely. I played a lot better than 2-under today I thought. Hit a lot of shots close and didn't make a lot of putts and got it to 4-under and bogeyed the last two. Generally I played pretty good.

 Q. Considering the 65 on day one, it's been a long time coming, that?
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Yes, it has. It's been a tough year for me. But I'm sure something good will come out of it.

 Q. Am I right to think there have been signs in recent weeks, you were having a run of birdies and letting it go and having a rogue shot and letting it slip? 
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, I mean, it's been pretty it tough. I thought I battled well in Holland and then bogeyed the last and missed the cut by one. 
 Yeah, the game has been coming on. I practiced hard last week at Greenwood and played nicely there, so I feel I was in pretty good shape when I got here.

 Q. Is there any it particular reason why the game has been deserting you? 
 SØREN KJELDSEN: I've just had a lot of things outside the course, really, that started all the way back in the beginning of December and that's been hard. I'm starting to be a little bit better to put it behind me.

 Q. Don't want to pry too much, but is it all cleared up, whatever it is? 
 SØREN KJELDSEN: No, not really. It's just really a matter of me accepting what's happened and get on with it, because I'm not going to -- it's not going to come out to my advantage in any way.

 Q. But the game is responding to that change of attitude, is it? 
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, I haven't been very patient on the course this year, and I think that's been more than anything, that's been the difference. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT