MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2010
Soren Kjeldsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You finished with par. You're 1-under for the day, right?
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah.

 Q. Can you tell us how are the course conditions out there? Is it more difficult or --
 SØREN KJELDSEN: I thought it was more difficult for the reason that the par-5s played a lot tougher today. 8 is into the wind; 13 is in off the left, which makes it difficult to sort of get around the corner; and 15 is into the wind, as well.
 You know, historically if you look at the scoring here, people play well on the par-5s and they make birdies and eagles as they did yesterday, and I think it's going to be a little different today. And then there are a few other holes where they tucked the pins away a little bit. I know they say that they don't change the pin positions. They say they've got a plan from the start and they don't change them because of low scoring, but they decided it was going to be tough today. 

 Q. Are you happy with where you stand right now going into the third round?
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, definitely. I mean, I played nicely. I played solid both days, and yeah, there's always a shot here and there. But I've been hitting it well and I've made a few putts, so it's been good.

 Q. How about the little bit of rain overnight? How are the greens? Were they less receptive, more receptive, playing faster, slower?
 SØREN KJELDSEN: They're still quite soft. I think these first two days is probably as soft as we'll ever see them. I don't think they like soft greens here too much, but obviously with a little bit of water they're going to be a little softer. But they're still very quick and it's still very difficult. But no question, if we don't get any more water over the next few days, it will firm up, and it's going to make it more difficult.

 Q. What's your strategy going into the weekend?
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Well, I mean, it's so difficult out here that you take one shot at a time. For some reason -- well, I suppose in a way it's easier to do here because every shot is so difficult that you just need 100 percent commitment. Your concentration has to be there, and in that respect because the course is so difficult, in a way it's easier to just take one shot at a time because you simply can't think of anything else. 

 Q. Were you surprised when Jaidee quit?
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Well, I suppose I was, yeah, because I didn't know that he was sort of injured. He doesn't seem to be a guy that's injured a lot, so it was obviously very disappointing for him. But you know, that's professional sports, I suppose. 

 Q. So you didn't notice anything at all?
 SØREN KJELDSEN: I just saw him walking down 10, he started putting a bit of ice on it, so that wasn't a good sign. You know, he had been playing nicely for a day and a half, and suddenly sort of the wheels came off a little bit, which was strange, and sort of after 10 we got the answer why it was happening. 

 Q. He had a stretch of five bogeys in a row or so. You don't remember seeing him hit a root or anything?
 SØREN KJELDSEN: No, I didn't see anything. And Jaidee is not the guy that's going to use that as an excuse. When he leaves the course, and in particular leaves Augusta, you know that he's hurt. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT