BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 26, 2009
Soren Kjeldsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Run of 65 today, did you enjoy yourself out there?   
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Absolutely. I was in good company. I had four weeks off and I was just really happy to be playing again. I didn't mind it was raining and just happy to be out there the last two days have been good.   
  
  Q. Why have you had a few weeks off?  
 SØREN KJELDSEN: I had a couple of weeks with a bad flu and couldn't really do anything and I went to the U.S. Open and I had an ear infection. So I had to have that sorted.  
 So I had to withdraw from the U.S. Open and get back to Denmark and get it started. At least now I'm feeling good.   
  
  Q. Was that a little frustrating?  
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, very, because the last tournament I played was at Wentworth where I finished third and played really nicely. I was going to play Wales and the U.S. Open, and there I was on the couch. It was a bit of a shame.   
  
  Q. Excited to come here and getting the juices flowing playing in a tournament again?  
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Absolutely. It's a tournament I've always played. I like this one. I was really looking forward to coming back, so those two rounds, I still feel the same way.  
  
  Q. What do you make of the course?  
 SØREN KJELDSEN: It's great, considering the amount of rain that we have had, it really is very good, especially the greens are holding up beautifully. I made a lot of putts out there these two days and with the weather we have had, that's quite amazing really.   
  
  Q. Feeling positive for the weekend?   
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, it's hard not to, isn't it. It's great to be playing again and to be honest with you, I'm a bit surprised that I've played as well as I have these two days after four weeks, it's quite a long time.   
  
  Q. Apart from the score, what was the most pleasing aspect of your round today?  
 SØREN KJELDSEN: The pleasing aspect was scoring well. After four weeks not playing, you sort of semi-expect that you are not so sharp around the edges of your game.  
 But these two days, I've played solid but I've scored really well, and that's been maybe a little bit surprising but very pleasing.  
  
  Q. You're in good form at Wentworth last time, how frustrating was it to have to miss four weeks and two big tournaments?   
 SØREN KJELDSEN: It really was, because Wales was always going to be big for me, because you know, The Ryder Cup is going to be there next year. I wanted to go there and play well, and the U.S. Open, one of the majors, you just don't want to miss tournaments like that.   
 So it's been frustrating but on the other hand, I've had a little bit of a break, so there's still a lot of golf to be played this summer.  
  
  Q. This golf course is well-known for its low scoring in the past. Does it surprise you how many players are in red figures, bearing in mind the conditions yesterday?  
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Yes, I suppose but having said that, we hit a lot of short irons into the greens, and the ball doesn't, you know, it doesn't go anywhere. It just stops. It's not like it spins a lot either.   
 If you are sort of dialed in, you can hit it close a lot of times, so today the weather was perfect, so today was understandable that a couple of guys went low.  
  
  Q. As far as courses go, where does this one rank for you on The European Tour?  
 SØREN KJELDSEN: I love it. It's not what we saw a lot on Tour really because it is so low scoring. I think the crowd loves it, as well. They see a lot of birdies here and a lot of eagles and it makes us look pretty good.   
 We love making birdies and eagles, and I think to have tournaments like that where we are able to and where they let us go low, it's really good and it's important.   
  
  Q. Obviously the company at the top of the leaderboard, Retief Goosen, the man to catch, you'll need to be at the top of your game on the weekend to stay up there.   
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, definitely, but every week it's like that, it doesn't matter if it's Retief Goosen or who it is. The standard out here is high, and if you don't play great, you're going to go backwards.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT