BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2009
Soren Kjeldsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Søren, two 69s the first two day, 68 today; did you play better?   
 SØREN KJELDSEN: I did. I played much better today. I played pretty good the first two days, but today I really did play well.  
  
  Q. Did the course feel like it was there for the taking today?  
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, with no breeze and that. But having said that, the course is very, very firm so you have to hit it straight. Those traps are very much into play today. If you are just slightly off-line you are going to end up in the trap. Obviously without the wind, it was easier but it's getting firm and it's not easy.  
  
  Q. Can you see a really low one out there tomorrow, because you you may need it.   
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, I mean, you shoot the number you shoot, I hit the ball really well today, and if I can do that tomorrow, who knows.  
  
  Q. Did your win at the Volvo Masters convince you that you could win any tournament?  
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, pretty much, that, and playing quite a few majors now and World Golf Championships and that. I'm not really scared of anybody now, which mentally is a big thing. So, yeah, I'm ready to go on from here.  
  
  Q. Better to get into the final group if Paul does finish things off; is that important to you?  
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, the later you start, the better you've played so, that birdie was big for me. I had a bit of a tough up-and-down really but I hit a shocking chip shot and it was nice to get away with a four.   
  
  Q. You have a fantastic chance of winning this championship.   
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, I played really great today. Conditions obviously were really good and not much breeze, but the course was playing firm. It was not exactly easy. You can make bogey so quick out here. I was really pleased with the way I played.  
  
  Q. 69, 69, 68, something around that tomorrow, you've got a great chance, haven't you.   
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, you never know. 18 holes, a lot of stuff can happen in both directions. I'm not trying to think about the end result tomorrow afternoon. I'm very pleased about the way I was hitting the ball today, and I want to do the same tomorrow.  
  
  Q. You seem to be driving the ball very well today.   
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Today I was driving it beautifully, the best I've been driving it for a very long time. That felt very good and I felt I could be more aggressive off the tee because of that. I had trust in my driver and it felt good.  
  
  Q. How important is it to take that aggression into tomorrow's round, as well.   
 SØREN KJELDSEN: It's a question of commitment. It's maybe not so much about aggressiveness but seeing your shot and really just commit to it and hit that shot.   
 Yesterday I backed off a couple of shots and I didn't want to do that today and I didn't and I'm really pleased about it.  
  
  Q. Looks like you could be in the final group tomorrow. Does the game plan change in any way because of that?   
 SØREN KJELDSEN: You play your game. I'm in this position because I've been concentrating on my own game, so I'm going to continue to do that.   
  
  Q. Any particular long putts out there?   
 SØREN KJELDSEN: 15 is about an 18-footer.   
 18 was a long putt, it was probably about 25 foot.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT