THE 3 IRISH OPEN
May 15, 2009
Soren Kjeldsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RODDY WILLIAMS: Søren, thanks very much for joining us, and a great round on a testing round here at Baltray. What do you think of that? 
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Standing on the 10th tee this morning, you're sort of semi-hoping we are not going to play, because it's so wet. And you just look into these bunkers looking for big puddles, and they are just not there; on links courses, they drain so good. When we got out there, probably the first two or three hours was pretty bad, and then the last couple of hours were okay. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS: First second and third pretty comfortable for you the past two days. 
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, yesterday I hit great shots, and I hit the ball very close to within six feet, all three. And today was a bit of a different story. I hit a good shot on the second hole, only about a 4-footer for birdie, but I hit it through the back on 1 and chipped in and hit it through the back on 3 and chipped in again. 

 Q. How did you manage to stay dry? 
 SØREN KJELDSEN: The answer is I didn't (laughter) -- I had about five layers on. I had two layers of waterproofs on, as well. It was pretty cold in the beginning but after probably about the first hour it was cold. I didn't get wet. 

 Q. How many golf balls do you use on a day like this?
 SØREN KJELDSEN: I think I used five or six today.

 Q. Is that as many as you've ever used? Have you done it before?
 SØREN KJELDSEN: I think last year, I got about the worst time of my life at the Open, I must have gone through about 12 that day. 
 It wasn't even close to being unplayable at all. The only hole that was wet really was 16, the landing area, there was one puddle, but that was about it, and we didn't really see much water. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS: Winds seems to have died down a bit. 
 SØREN KJELDSEN: That's a bit unfair. No, but I'm sure it will be good this afternoon but weather comes in pretty quickly here, so we'll see.

 Q. Do you like the style of links golf?
 SØREN KJELDSEN: I wouldn't say links golf, but being from the northern part of Denmark, I'm certainly used to the wind. Unfortunately we don't have many links courses, but I play in the same conditions as the boys play here, wind and rain.
 When I grew up, but we didn't have many links courses, but you know, links courses or not, I always have to keep it low and I have to keep it along the ground anyway, so I'm used to this kind of game now. 

 Q. Do you still have a Scottish coach?
 SØREN KJELDSEN: I do, yeah. I've still got Colin, yeah. So he's based down in Portugal, but I see him quite regularly. 

 Q. What's his name?
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Colin Smith. He's based in list been.

 Q. Did you have a house at St. Andrews at one point? 
 SØREN KJELDSEN: No. 

 Q. You spoke about your resilience, being able to grit things out, like with weather like this?
 SØREN KJELDSEN: In a way the game has always been like that. But this year has been very much so for me, playing some of the bigger tournaments. Players I haven't played before; I played in The players Championship, and there's been a lot of new stuff that you have to get used to; and therefore, stay really patient. 
 So certainly it's one of the key words for me to sort of hang in there and sort of stay tough. 

 Q. How are you coping with travelling backwards and forwards, States to Europe, States to Europe?
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Obviously it's a little hard. That's what I want to do and that's the event I want to play, and coming from last week, which was great, coming to a great event this week, I mean, this is right where I want to be, so no complaints from me. 

 Q. Have you got your ham yet? 
 SØREN KJELDSEN: I haven't. 

 Q. Can you tell me more about Colin Smith, when was the last time you saw him and what were you working on?
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Last time I saw him was at Augusta, he was there. We just work on the same stuff. It doesn't change radically. I've been with him or 17, 18 years, so it's not like suddenly you change everything. Everything we do is long term and we keep working on the same stuff. 

 Q. We've had the rain, and they are probably talking about wind for the weekend. How does that make you feel as far as different conditions? 
 SØREN KJELDSEN: If anything, I'd prefer just to play in wind. I don't mind it being very, very strong, but in the wet is just hard work, with the towels and the gloves and trying to keep everything dry, it really is hard work. So hopefully this weekend we'll just get some wind. I think that is nicer for all of us:
 RODDY WILLIAMS: Søren, thank you very much, well played. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT