VOLVO MASTERS
October 30, 2008
Soren Kjeldsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MICHAEL GIBBONS: 6-under today, one of the best rounds you've ever had, considering the difficulty here. 
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, the breeze was strong and there's not that much space out there really. You have to control the ball well and seems like pretty much every shot I hit today came up sort of the way I saw it before hitting it. So you've got to take advantage of those days, and I did. 

 Q. Leading last week, and second here last year; can you go one better this time?
 SØREN KJELDSEN: There's a long way to go. My priority is to hit a good tee shot on the first tomorrow, and that's as far as it goes really. 
 You never know with this game, especially on this course, but playing well last year and playing well last week, I felt good coming into today. But to do 6-under today, I couldn't have predicted that obviously. 

 Q. Were you influenced by what you saw around you, besides that other people were struggling, high scores? 
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Not really. When I was changing my shoes this morning, I heard they had the tournament on from last year, and you saw the scores. End of the week, plus-ten or something like that made it into the Top-10. 
 So, I mean, before this week started, we are probably not going to have all of that great weather, either, but you know it's the sort of a golf course where you hang in there, and I mean, we all know, it's going to be difficult. It's a very tough golf course, and with the weather not being particularly kind maybe this week, it's going to be better for four days.

 Q. Do you prefer to have a Challenge Tour birdie-fest? 
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Well, I think it's nice to have a bit of both really. If you have to play courses like this every week; sometimes it's great to go out and hit 20-under every week. It's nice to have variety, and I think we have that on The European Tour, which I think is great. We play in it different conditions, different courses, and not just bombers courses every week. Like last week, I thought Sergio's tournament was really good, as well, sort of a strategic tournament, as well, so we've got a great variety. 

 Q. Was there one shot or one hole that was kind of the key to your game today?
 SØREN KJELDSEN: I would say I got off to a good start, 2-under through five, and then hit it through the green on 6 and chipping in. You hole a bunker shot and suddenly you're 3-under instead of 1-under. So if there was one shot, I would say that was it. 

 Q. Last week, you weren't prepared to say -- what's the philosophy this week? 
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Like last week, I only got into that position because I sort of played my golf ball and that's what I did today, and I can't see any logic in, because it's Saturday or Sunday, suddenly what the other guys are doing is important. It wasn't important today, so hopefully if I can keep that mind-set, it's not important on the weekend. 

 Q. I looked at your shot to the back of the green; what were you thinking when you were about to run up? 
 SØREN KJELDSEN: I wasn't thinking of any number. To be perfectly honest with you, I was thinking, I've practiced a lot on these bunker shots, and this was a good time to show that I'm improving. 

 Q. Tell us one thing about yourself that might surprise our readers that they wouldn't know. 
 SØREN KJELDSEN: I can't tell people -- I don't know. 
 I'm not one of these really weird Scandinavians. I'm pretty normal. I play my golf. I enjoy that. I think that would probably be a surprise to some people. (Laughter).

 Q. How do you think Scandinavian golfers are perceived? Do you think that people do think they are weird? 
 SØREN KJELDSEN: I suppose, I mean, you always get the odd stories of what people do, and maybe you know, it always becomes a little bit maybe us and them, and you know, they are always a bit strange. The sort of Scandinavian tradition on the Tour is so long now, I think the guys like Robert this week, we've got a good chance of winning the Order of Merit. I think seeing a few interviews with him, he seems as level headed a guy as you will ever see and as nice a guy you will ever meet. 
 You have all of these players out, Henrik Stenson is one of them, as well, completely just a great guy, and if you see a few interviews with these guys, you really shouldn't have these rumours floating about too much. 

 Q. Did you look up to any other Scandinavians growing up? 
 SØREN KJELDSEN: I suppose I've never really had a Scandinavian sort of role model. I always looked at Langer, sort of the other neighbor for us, which you can obviously see on the putting style now. But he's always been -- I think he's a class act, and when I came out on Tour, I realised that he was as classy is the impression I got when I was a kid. So that's nice when things like that happen. 

 Q. Is there a Scandinavian comrade ship this week?
 SØREN KJELDSEN: It would be great to see Robert winning. He's had such a good year, and a long way through the season, people were sort of -- he hasn't won as he should have, and suddenly, he starts winning and I think he's done everything, you know, fantastically well. Obviously Padraig being in there, as well, he's had an unbelievable year. 
 But I mean, I suppose there's quite a few of them that really deserve it, so it's going to be a great finish. 
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Søren, well played again, good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT