BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2008
Soren Kjeldsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tied for the course record?
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, it was a good round. I played really solid. 

 Q. And the course is playing well, do you find? 
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, I think we got quite lucky this afternoon because it seemed like yesterday the greens got a bit crusty but with a little bit of moisture early on today, the greens are I'm sure definitely better this afternoon than they were yesterday afternoon, so we've got a good break. 

 Q. You played yourself into contention? 
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, I'm very pleased. Haven't played that great lately, and I had a nice feel yesterday when I was practising after the rounds and I seemed to take that out on the course today; I was very pleased.
 The greens were a little bit softer. I mean, there wasn't much breeze yesterday and there was nothing today. So I think that the main reason was that the conditions was just a little softer.

 Q. Paul McGinley shot the course record yesterday; did you look at that and say that's what you were shooting for today?
 SØREN KJELDSEN: No, to be honest with you, I try not to think too much about the score. You've got one shot ahead of and you that's as much as you can try and control. So try to do very much that, try not to look too much at what's going around. 

 Q. Just the one dropped shot there? 
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, I hit it left on 15 and had a good break.

 Q. And you picked it up on the last two?
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, I played 17 conservatively. I took a 3-wood off the tee and hit it a nice distance and made about a 20-footer.
 And then went off the last and had just a good 3-wood, second shot just off the green, and made two putts. 

 Q. And taking those two shots on the last two, that must give you more confidence going into tomorrow. 
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, it's nice, because I played well all day, and then to finish off with two nice birdies obviously makes me feel very good. 

 Q. Speaking to you early in the week, you were keen to do well this week and you've given yourself a chance to do it tomorrow?
 SØREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, to be honest I'm pleased to do well every week but this being our flagship event, for us this is the second best tournament after The Open. So it's definitely one of those that you look forward to. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT