WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 22, 2017
Soren Kjeldsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How were you able to take care of the No. 2 player in the world today?  
SOREN KJELDSEN: I felt good coming into today.  And spoke to Alistair yesterday and he said, you know, go and shoot 5-under and see if it's enough.  Don't worry about him.  Obviously he's pretty spectacular player.  You don't want to be watching too much.   
So I knew that I had to play well to have any kind of a chance, therefore, I didn't look too much at what Rory was doing.  I played really, really well.   
 Q.  How much do you relish being the underdog role in a format like this?  
SOREN KJELDSEN: Well, coming in at 64 this week, everybody that I'm playing I'm going to be the underdog.  It's nice.  I haven't had the best start to this season this year in America.  But last few weeks have been getting a little bit better.  So I felt good and I think you can talk a lot about match play, but at the end of the day you need to shoot good scores that's what I managed to do today.   
 Q.  Right out of the gate you jumped on it.  Then it was back and forth all day.  Talk about your emotions.  
SOREN KJELDSEN: I think I did a good job of not worrying about what Rory was doing.  A few times he hit it about 100 yards past me.  I was trying not to look at that too much.  I knew I had to play well to have a chance.  To be honest with you, that's case in every match this week.  The players are so good that you need to be on your game.  I got into my little zone.  Alistair and I work really well and I managed to hit a lot of good shots and make some putts.   
 Q.  Back on 14, you are 1 down, in the middle of the fairway, hard shot, into the wind.  Pin tucked over by the river.  You took extra time on that one?  
SOREN KJELDSEN: That was a big shot.  Obviously losing three holes in a row there, it was between a 5 and 6-iron.  Alistair suggested holding it up a little bit with a 5, but I felt with that short pin on the left, I didn't really want to try something fancy.  I just wanted to aim right and hit it pretty hard.  Went with a 6 and hit it beautifully.  That seemed to really get me going.   
 Q.  You birdied every hole since then.  Do you happen to know what your record in this tournament was?  
SOREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, it's awful.  I was actually thinking about this driving to the course this morning.  And I think over the years, you know, there are not many tournaments where I haven't got decent records.  I think U.S. Open is probably one.  This one was one.  I think when I played on teams like Seve Trophy and Royal Trophy and stuff like that, I've had good records.  I don't know what it has been with this tournament.  I was determined to change it today.   
 Q.  As days go, not a bad day on the golf course, is it?  
SOREN KJELDSEN: No.  That was a good day.  He's such a great player, so I knew I had to go and play well.  I had to focus on what I was doing and I played really well today.  My mindset was if I go and shoot a good score, he has to play well to beat me.  I obviously know he's capable of that, but I managed just to squeeze it in.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT