THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 5, 2018
Katie Boulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. OSAKA/K. Boulter   
6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What were you able to do differently from Birmingham?  It seemed like a lot more steady from you.  
KATIE BOULTER: Yeah, I actually felt really comfortable out there.  I wouldn't say in Birmingham I felt that.  I kind of mixed up my tactics a little bit, as well.  I was using a slice a lot more, just trying to get the ball in play.  Just compete as much as I could.   
 Q.  What made you feel uncomfortable in Birmingham?  
KATIE BOULTER: I think that was my first match on a grass court.  No, it was my second actually, in a bigger stadium.  I hadn't quite gotten used to it a little bit more.  Yeah, I felt like I really enjoyed playing today.  I wasn't really too nervous.   
 Q.  What do you take away from the experience today?  
KATIE BOULTER: I mean, she's a top-20 player.  First of all, she hits the ball harder than me, she hits it more consistently.  It's something I need to get used to.  I feel like even within a space of two weeks, I've changed.  I've gotten better at it.  As the scoreline showed today, it was much better than Birmingham.   
Yeah, no, it's a really good learning experience for me.  I'm looking forward to going forward and having many more matches against people like that.   
 Q.  Have you surprised yourself over the last three or four weeks?  
KATIE BOULTER: I have surprised myself a little bit.  I know the work that I've put in at the same time, so it's all there.  It was just a matter of time before it came out.  I think it's been a really good experience for me playing over the grass.  I think it puts me in a good stage for the rest of the season.   
 Q.  I remember last year you were talking about some inspirational notes you were reading.  Do you still do that?  Anything you look at?  
KATIE BOULTER: I think last year I used the notes a lot more, purely because I hadn't been in this environment before.  I hadn't played a match at Wimbledon before.  I think it made a huge difference to me right there and then.   
I feel like I believe in myself a lot more this year.  I've won a lot more matches.  I feel a lot more comfortable.   
 Q.  Where do you expect to see yourself in the next 12 months?  
KATIE BOULTER: Working hard, doing the best I can, building myself physically, mentally, doing exactly what I've been doing for the past six months.  Ranking-wise I'm not going to focus on at all.  But obviously I want to be pushing 100.  I'm pretty close now, and main draw at slams.   
 Q.  Obviously the US Open isn't far away.  You're very close to getting a main draw automatic entry.  How much does this give you a taste for that?  Is that a realistic target over the next few weeks?  
KATIE BOULTER: I think it's great.  It's really nice to be exposed to this.  It's great that the All England could give me an opportunity here.  Because I'm going to feel much better when I go and play the Grand Slams hopefully in the main draws around the world.  Of course, it will be a completely different atmosphere, a different experience.  Hopefully I'll feel good.   
 Q.  Does that feel like a realistic target?  
KATIE BOULTER: Yeah, definitely.  I'm so close to it right now.  I'm going to keep working until I reach that goal.   
 Q.  With your ranking now, you're going to be able to get into a lot of WTA events.  Are you going to try to concentrate mainly on the WTA Tour?  
KATIE BOULTER: I think I'll be putting a lot of emphasis on the WTA Tour.  However, I will also be playing a mixture of up-and-down tournaments.  I think it's great to get matches under your belt.  Also it's really nice to play people a lot higher than you and have a free shot at them.   
 Q.  Have you worked out where you'll play in the States?  
KATIE BOULTER: I haven't confirmed anything yet.  I'm going to talk to my team tomorrow after this tournament is finished.   
 Q.  How have you enjoyed the experience of the last few weeks, playing on bigger courts, getting attention from the media?  
KATIE BOULTER: I think it's been spectacular.  It's something I've always dreamed of.  It's exciting to be in this situation, and to be able to compete with a top-20 player is something I've imagined myself doing.  Now I'm actually doing it.   
I look forward to more matches like that.  I hope I can replicate these tournaments over and over.   
 Q.  Grass could develop into your favorite surface as you play on it more and more.  Do you feel you can come back here in future years and go deeper in the draw?  
KATIE BOULTER: It's already my favorite surface.  What can I say?  Yeah, I hope that I can get better and better on the courts.  But it will always remain my favorite surface.   
 Q.  In future years, do you think this is the Grand Slam you think you can do best in?  
KATIE BOULTER: I think I can play on any surface.  I haven't played that much on clay.  I need to build myself a bit more on it.  Hard courts, grass courts, I hope I can go as far as I possibly can at the slams.   
 Q.  How much patience do you need as a young player, being a leading junior?  
KATIE BOULTER: I think patience is a virtue.  You have to have it.  It's part of the game.  I try my hardest to have it.  Sometimes you lose it, you do.  It's being human.  It's just the way it is.   
But, yeah, I'm really happy in the place I am right now.  Yeah, I'm looking forward to the rest.   
 Q.  As a sort of rising star in your home slam, there were a few empty seats around in the first set.  Would you have liked to see it packed, create a slightly more intimidating atmosphere for your opponent?  
KATIE BOULTER: The crowd has been great.  I couldn't ask for anything more.  They've lifted me whenever I needed it.  All I can say is thanks to everyone who has been watching.  I appreciate it completely.   
 Q.  Is there something you could have done differently today in order to win the match?  
KATIE BOULTER: I don't think so, no.  I put my heart out there.  I did the best I could.  It was so close.  I had a lot of breakpoints.  She served well.  I don't think I could do that much better, no.  She's a top player, and I respect that.   
 Q.  Were you able to do the physical work off the court that you want to, or do you still have to be pretty careful?  
KATIE BOULTER: I'm still very careful with what I do.  I'm getting better and better.  I am not at my maximum yet.  This year, the second half of the year, will be a huge emphasis on that.  I think it will make a big impact to my game.   
 Q.  You supported your England kit this morning.  Will you be tuning into the Wimbledon final or the football if we make it?  
KATIE BOULTER: What kind of question is that (smiling)?   
I think I'll go an England football match, yeah, unless Jo-Ko is in the final.   
 Q.  What do you think our chances are of making it to the final?  
KATIE BOULTER: I think it's a great chance.  I'm looking forward to watching them.  Hopefully they're going to do well.   
 Q.  Naomi, did she give you any words of advice?  
KATIE BOULTER: She didn't give me any words of advice, no.  She seemed lovely.  I don't know.  I haven't really spoken to her.  She said, Well done, at the end.  Yeah, I wished her luck in all the rest of the tournament.   
 Q.  Seeing a top-20 player up close, did you think, That's what I need to do to get to that level?  
KATIE BOULTER: I think Birmingham, that was the one time.  It really showed me where I need to be, what I need to do to get there.  It's a very clear thing for me and my team to see someone like that, to play against someone of that caliber.  It's very inspiring to be two weeks later much closer to her, actually feeling like I'm in the match, having a chance to win.   
Yeah, I think so.   
 Q.  Was there anything she did in particular?  
KATIE BOULTER: It's everything.  She's got a great game.  She hits the ball really fast, takes time away from you.  I think I needed to move quicker and be behind the ball.  That's what I'm going to be focusing on going forward.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT