NASCAR HALL-OF-FAME INDUCTION CEREMONY
January 29, 2014
Frances Flock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KERRY THARP:   Up next we have the widow of Tim Flock, and that is Frances Flock, and certainly what a character Tim Flock was.   He was a two‑time NASCAR premier series champion, 39 wins, and his entire family was nothing but NASCAR.   But Frances, it was enjoyable to listen to you talk tonight about your husband and about the race that they're probably having up in heaven.   But maybe just talk about what this evening means to you to know that your beloved husband has been inducted into the NASCAR Hall of Fame.   
FRANCES FLOCK:   Well, to start with, it is an honor for me to be able to accept that award, but it hurts in many ways because he's not here to be able to accept it for himself because he loved NASCAR so much and racing that he would have loved to have been honored just to have been in the NASCAR Hall of Fame, even though he's already in about 16 of them all over the country, but this one here would have been the cream of the crop of everything.   
   
 Q.   Ms.Flock, if your husband was here, what would he say to us?   
FRANCES FLOCK:   He would say thank you, and he appreciated all the press coverage that you gave him, and he would not actually believe the paper‑‑ I think I got a bigger write‑up today than he did.   He might be a little bit jealous, but he would be so proud and so honored.   He would give you stories of racing until you got tired of hearing them tonight.   I grant you, he could tell some more good race stories.   The longer the stories got, the better he got with racing.   
   
 Q.   Ms.Flock, I know there were times when your husband and your family and NASCAR didn't necessarily see eye to eye on some things.   A night like this, does that provide some closure for you and the family on this thing?  
FRANCES FLOCK:   Tim would be honored because this would actually close the gap of the differences that they had back in the '50s and early '60s with the trying to join the union thing then.   Tim always thought that it was kind of a dirty deal at the time, but later on he realized that it wasn't for the best.   
   
 Q.   I want to go back to this monkey story.   I've never seen before that the monkey was riding in the race car.   Was there a second seat in the race car?   Was he jumping around?   
FRANCES FLOCK:   Well, when they decided to put the monkey in the race car, they built a little seat for him.   He had a helmet, he had a uniform, and he had a safety belt, and he'd sit in that seat with his safety belt connected for eight races.   But on the eighth race, he actually got loose somehow or another and jumped out of the seat and jumped down in the floorboard.   Back then Tim would have to pull the chain to the right front tire to see if it was wearing, and he had watched him do that so much that he jumped down, pulled the chain, and a pebble hit him because they was on a dirt track, and he jumped up, run all over the full seat back then because they raced with full seats in the Hudson Hornet cars back then, and Tim literally had to pull in the pits, leading the race, and pull a monkey off his back, and it cost him $750 that day and his brother Fonty won the race.   
   
 Q.   That's the day he literally got the monkey off his bad?   
FRANCES FLOCK:   Yes, that's where that saying came from, got the monkey on your back.  
   
 Q.   I had a great opportunity to interview Tim years ago, and I only got one question in.   I asked the question, he took the microphone out of my hand and talked for five minutes.   Did he always have that outgoing of a personality just in everyday life in addition to how he treated us in the media, which it was a pleasure to talk with him?   
FRANCES FLOCK:   Yes, he was always that way.   His personality was that way 24 hours a day.   Like you said, talking to him was a pleasure, and he would make you feel like he was his best friend and that y'all had known each other for 100 years or so.   He never met a stranger whatsoever, and he loved people, loved talking to people, and his personality was that way all the way up until his death.   
KERRY THARP:   Frances, thank you so much for being here this evening.   Congratulations to you and your family.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT