AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
March 31, 2021
Zoe Campos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. How does it feel different this year coming to compete in this than it did two years ago?
 ZOE CAMPOS:   Obviously, two years ago I had really no expectations, but this year's a lot different.  I'm two years older with two years more of experience.  So my mentality is a lot like stronger and stuff.
 Everything's pretty much the same.  I just want to play my game.  We'll see how it goes.  Golf is golf.  You never know what happens.
 Q. I know you were co-leader first round last year, right?
 ZOE CAMPOS:   Uh-huh.
 Q. Today wasn't quite as good, but you're still very close.  I know it's hard on the back nine out there today.  Did it play much different this year than it did?
 ZOE CAMPOS:   I think it played just a little bit longer, but that didn't really like affect anything really.  Being co-leader two years ago was a lot different, but I mean, this year I think it played a little bit harder.
 Q. What did you learn from playing the course since last year?  And do you think it's an advantage?
 ZOE CAMPOS:   I definitely think it is an advantage since two years ago I've already played and I just already know the course and what goes around on the greens.  But, again, golf is golf.  You never know.
 Q. So you're playing both the Island and Bluff courses this week.  Describe some of the challenges.
 ZOE CAMPOS:   I would say the greens are pretty hard.  It's pretty hard to spin them and keep them staying on the green.  If you don't hit the fairway, then you're pretty much in trouble, but other than that, if you hit the fairway and you hit it on the green, then you can get around the course.
 Q. Which course do you enjoy?
 ZOE CAMPOS:   Wait.  Which one's which?
 Q. So Island is the front.
 ZOE CAMPOS:   I think the front.  Back's a lot more difficult.  But I like them both.
 Q. How will you prepare for tomorrow?
 ZOE CAMPOS:   I'm not trying to think too much.  Wherever I am up on the leader board, that's where I am.  I'm not really going to pay attention.  I'm just going to go out tomorrow and play my game and see what happens.
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT