AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 3, 2019
Zoe Campos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Zoe Campos to the press center.  Zoe is 16, one of the youngest in the field this week.  She's from Valencia, California and she is co-leader in the clubhouse with a 68.
If you wouldn't mind just walking us, just giving us general comments on your round.
ZOE CAMPOS: Through my round today, I had a slow start with my putting, but I got it going during the middle and towards the end.  My shots were pretty good today.  I felt like my swing was on point today, so yeah.
THE MODERATOR: You had six birdies today.  Pretty impressive.  If you wouldn't mind taking us through some of your highlights.
ZOE CAMPOS: My first birdie was on the par 3, and par 3 No. 7 -- or no, No. 6.  And I hit a really good shot towards like right at the pin and I made my 10-footer for birdie, and that's when I knew like I was going to have a good day.  And the rest of my birdies, like I just kept my putts rolling and everything felt really well.
Q. I think you maybe got your invitation kind of late to this.  What was your thought?  Did you think maybe you weren't going to get in?  Were you looking at this?  What were you thinking getting into this event?
ZOE CAMPOS: At first, I didn't think at all I was going to get in because my ranking was kind of low for this tournament.  But once I got in, like I knew I needed to play well, and I guess I am now (laughing).
Q. Have you been in this setting before?  Have you ever sat on an interview podium and addressed media?
ZOE CAMPOS: No, not at all.
Q. Do you like it?
ZOE CAMPOS: Not really (laughter).  But kind of at the same time.
Q. You and Allison Lee are from the same hometown.  What do you know about her and how well do you know her?
ZOE CAMPOS: We're pretty good friends.  Ever since I started playing, I've always been right by her side and she's kind of my coach at first, and like we'd always practice together.  So I basically got all my like techniques from her.
Q. So you're in high school.  What year?
ZOE CAMPOS: Sophomore.
Q. And do you feel comfortable with these older -- like if you're playing with Jennifer, if you were playing with her, how do you feel your game stacks up with all of them?
ZOE CAMPOS: At this point, playing with older people, that's what I've always like dealt with.  I have no nerves towards playing with college players, or even pros.  I just play my own game.  See how it goes.
Q. It's relatively quiet out there today.  It's a good crowd but it's not huge like it's probably going to be on Saturday.  Have you ever played in front of big galleries like that, and are you looking forward to that kind of opportunity if you get there?
ZOE CAMPOS: I haven't really played in front of a huge crowd, but I have had like some small crowds out there.
But having the opportunity to play like in front of an even bigger crowd, it would be like really exciting and something you'd never really -- I've never seen before, and it would be a good way to test how I play out there.
Q. You got your invitation later than most of the players.  Can you just tell us, you said you started working really hard after that.  Can you just tell us how you ramped up your practice after getting the call from Augusta National, and what have you been doing in that period, and when exactly did you get that call, maybe just to give us a timeframe?
ZOE CAMPOS: I'm not exactly sure when I got the call, but it was kind of late.  But ever since I got that call, you know, my practice started getting like longer and more focused, more than like having fun out there and stuff.
But you know, I would practice out there after school, like four hours to five hours a day, since I get out early.  You know, I always go chip first and I go hit and then I go putt, each about like an hour and a half, you know.  It would be a long day, but it was worth it.
Q. So how long have you known you were in the tournament?
ZOE CAMPOS: I think about three months, or two, I don't know (laughing).
Q. Can you just tell us a little bit about last night, the dinner over at the club and maybe who you might have met while you were there, and what it was like experiencing the clubhouse and the course, all probably for the first time?
ZOE CAMPOS: Seeing Augusta for the first time, it was unbelievable, and like just seeing how everything is set up, and how everything looks, is just so perfect.
You know, looking at that makes me more motivated to play better, to play at that course, because I think it would be an unbelievable experience to play there.
Q. When you were -- you're still a kid, but when you were a really small kid, did you ever picture yourself playing at Augusta National?
ZOE CAMPOS: No, not at all.  I honestly didn't even really know what Augusta was, until I started getting into the game.  (Laughter).
But ever since like a couple years ago, I didn't even think that women could even play, but now that that's happening, like you know, I'm trying to get there, but yeah.
Q. When you thought that women couldn't play there, did that make you want to play there more?
ZOE CAMPOS: Yeah.  I thought it was unfair at first, but now playing -- being able to play, even on Friday just as a practice round, like that's such a good opportunity for us women.
Q. What were your expectations for this week, if you were one of the last players in the field?
ZOE CAMPOS: I don't really expect myself to be up top.  I really just focused on making the cut.  It's not my, like, absolute goal to win this tournament.  I just really want to get a good experience out of it.
MODERATOR: Thanks so much, Zoe.  Good luck tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT