PRO FOOTBALL HALL OF FAME ENSHRINEMENT
August 8, 2009
Ralph Wilson, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   SPEAKER: The Pro Football Hall of Fame, inside these walls. You can hear the whispers of football legends: A place where memories can hold up. 
 What I wouldn't give right now to put my hands under Mike Webster's butt one more time.
 A sanctuary to honor those who immortalize the sport.
 At the University of Alabama I was mighty lucky to be working under a gentleman name Paul Bryant. Coach Bryant, Mrs. Bryant wherever you are, we miss you. 
 On behalf of your friends and your fans, I say congratulations, too. 
 I was the first one to say that I wouldn't after hearing my son get up here and talk. I don't care if I lose the bet.
 A haven that invokes uncontrollable emotion. 
 You tell everyone or anyone that has ever doubted thought they did not measure up or wanted to quit, you tell them to look up. Get up and don't ever give up. 
 It has been written throughout my career that toughness is my trademark. Well, the toughest person I've ever met in my life is my hero, my soldier, my son, Hunter. 
 Now the doors have opened for a new group that's earned their place among the greats in the Pro Football Hall of Fame. 
 Inside these walls resides the greatest that have ever put on a uniform and played professional football. We're in Canton, Ohio where once again it is the epicenter of the football universe.
 The crowds are here inside the stadium as we get set to welcome in six more members to the Professional Football Hall of Fame. The class of 2009. 
 Hi, everybody. Welcome into ESPN's coverage of the Hall of Fame Enshrinement Ceremony in Canton, Ohio. Trey Wingo here delighted to be back with Tom Jackson one more time. Tom, this night is always so much fun. We have great weather, looks like it's going to be a great night.
 It's going to be a great night. We have a lot of play makers in this class. Couple of first ballot Hall of Famers in Rod Woodson and Bruce Smith. 
 And the history of the league embodied in Ralph Wilson, Jr. The owner of the Buffalo Bills. A half century of the architecture of what we see in the game today.
 We'll talk more about that in a minute. But let's introduce you to the entire class of 2009, including the all-time sack king in NFL history, Bruce Smith, 20. Named to 11 Pro Bowls in 19 seasons and played in four straight Super Bowls for the bills. 
 Rod Woodson was not only the 1993 Defensive Player of the Year, named in the 75th Anniversary Bowl Team. His 12 picks is still an NFL record. 
 Derrick Thomas, one of the great sack artists of all time, tragically taken too soon for us. He had seven sacks in one game, 126 and a half in his 11-year career. 
 He was the fastest man on the planet, Bullet Bob Hayes. Two-times a gold medal winner at the 1964 Olympics. Went to the Dallas Cowboys. Double digit touchdowns his first 12 seasons in the league. You want consistency on the line, they don't get any better than guard Randall McDaniel. 12 consecutive Pro Bowl starts in his unbelievable 14-year career. And as Tom alluded to, the architect of the Buffalo Bills, Ralph Wilson, Jr., one of the eight original founders of the American Football League. And, of course, the leading driving force behind the team that went the four straight Super Bowls. 
 So many Hall of Famers back with us here tonight. Eric Dickerson here. Class of 1999. One of many that have made their way back here to Canton, Ohio. Mel Blount of the Pittsburgh Steelers also here. So much more coming. Stay with us here on ESPNews. 
 Showers in the area of Canton, Ohio earlier today. But those clouds have dissipated and we are expecting a perfect night to recognize six players or fine players that have personified perfection throughout their careers. I see a lot of black and gold in the crowd right now. How are your emotions? 
 Nervous, nervous energy. 
 What's that mean to you? 
 I mean, coming from Mel, where I think the elite corner of all Hall of Famers, because the game was changed.
 You can't kick me out now, I'm already in. 
 Come up on stage, see these guys, and see these names. I know you've been in town for a few days. Has there been one moment where you've been like, wow? 
 Yeah, I mean, riding over, the luncheon. Mark Starr was in the car with me. I was like a little kid. And I'm talking to him like I knew him. Hey, Mark, what's going on, how are you? And seeing him and having all those guys that are there I grew up watching those guys. I grew up loving those guys. And now I'm on the same team with those guys. I think it's amazing. It's so surreal. It's gone so fast. I'm just taking in the moment. I'm very excited about it. 
 Congratulations, Rod Woodson has picked off six guys in the Hall of Fame. Now he goes in himself tonight. 
 Well, thank you. 
 71, in Rod Woodson's amazing career. It's going to be a great night. 
 It's all about football on this night. It's a Buffalo trick night. Jim Kelly, class of 2002 strolling across the stage. Getting set to welcome in teammate Bruce Smith. Bob Holtzman caught up with Bruce not too long ago.
 Bruce, I understand you've been agonizing a little bit over your speech. I assume it's done now.
 I wouldn't say agonizing. I said that it might have been taken out of context. What was taken place is I was anxious. The anticipation of it. A little bit nervous. And just the whole excitement and the aura around being around these fans once again, and this image that's going to be felt in this stadium -- the energy that's going to be felt in this stadium.
 What kind of advise have you gotten? 
 Well, just be calm. Be yourself. Those are the most important things that I've taken out of their words, and enjoy the moment. Don't let this moment pass you by without stopping, and really absorbing it all. Looking around, and saying this is incredible.
 You're not only going today, but your owner Ralph Wilson, Jr. What are you expecting from this crowd with Buffalo being so close some?
 With Buffalo having close proximity to Canton, I expect this stadium to be filled with a sea of red, white and blue. But I know the Bills fans like I do know them, it's going to be an incredible feeling. It's going to be exhilarating. There is going to be a tremendous amount of energy, and it's going to be awfully loud. 
 Bruce Smith, Hall of Famer as of tonight. One of a handful of dominant defensive players going in.
 All right, Bob, Bruce, thank you. It's funny he said he wasn't agonizing over that speech. But I guarantee you quarterbacks agonized over stopping that guy.
 Never a better defensive end in this league. And I think he had the perfect career. Number one pick overall in the NFL draft. Outstanding long career. Ends up with the most sacks in NFL history, and a first ballot inductee into the Hall of Fame.
 You go back to that old commercial with him. Bad things, man. Bad things when Bruce Smith was on the field. Unless you're Marv Levy and you're coaching Bruce Smith of the Buffalo Bills. Marv Levy is here with the class of 2001. 
 Tonight's Hall of Fame Enshrinement Ceremony. We get set for what should be a glorious night here in Canton, Ohio. Tommy, we've got the Buffalo feel here. So much going on. The fans have gotten into it. It's going to be a lot of fun.
 Well, it's like western New York is now here in Canton, Ohio. That's what it feels like. 
 It's been transplanted. And the class is getting set. We are set to introduce the first of this class, and meet the class of 2009. For that, let's go up to the stage. 
 Is it any wonder that the sun came out just for this moment? This is fantastic! A beautiful night for an induction ceremony here in Canton, Ohio. It is time now to introduce to you the latest class for enshrinement here at the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 2009. Bob Hayes won a pair of gold medals in the 1964 Olympics. He held the title of world's fastest human. 46 receptions over 1,000 yards as a rookie with the Dallas Cowboys. Often it was said that bump and run coverage was designed on just to slow him down over his 11 year career he amassed over 7 thousands yards and 71 touchdowns which today still is a record for the Dallas Cowboys. Here to represent his father, please give a warm welcome to Bob Hayes, Jr. FLUSH.
 A first-round pick for the Minnesota Vikings, and an immediate starter. This enshrine earned all-rookie honors, and had an uncanny ability to finesse block or overpower opponents. He blocked for six 1,000 yard rushers. Named First Team All Pro nine consecutive times, and selected to play in 12 consecutive Pro Bowls. Please welcome Randall McDaniel. 
 He was taken first in the 1985 draft. One of the most dominant defensive players in NFL history named Defensive Player of the Year not once, but twice. Named to the NFL's all decade teams in the '80s and the 1990's. Was First Team All Pro nine times, elected to 11 Pro Bowls. The all time sack leader in the history of the National Football League, Bruce Smith. 
 Derrick Thomas was the fourth overall player taken in 1989. He amassed ten sacks with the rookies and the Chiefs earning defensive Rookie of the Year honors. In 1990, he set a team record with 20 sacks. He was named to nine Pro Bowls. No player had more sacks than Derrick Thomas in the 1990's. Named to the NFL's All Decade Team for that decade. Representing his father, please welcome Darrin Thomas. 
 He was one of the original founders of the American Football League. Founding the Buffalo Bills in 1959. During his tenure as team owner, the Bills won two AFL championships and appeared in an unprecedented four straight Super Bowls. Please welcome the Bills founder and owner, Ralph Wilson, Jr.
 And finally, this man was the Steelers first round selection in 1987. He had 71 career interceptions. Earned all pro honors playing quarterback, safety and kick return. NFL's Defensive Player of the Year in 1993. A member of the 1990's All Decade Team as well as the NFL's 75th Anniversary Team. This is the last time I will ever announce him as a future Hall of Famer. Put your hands together for none other than Rod Woodson. 
 One last round of applause for the Canton Class of 2009. 
 There is magic in the air tonight as we set get set for the Enshrinement Ceremony. 
 It is now my honor to introduce a man who needs no introduction, because basically, well, he doesn't like big flowery introductions. And since he's my boss, I do what I'm told. Please put your hands together for the commissioner of the National Football League, Roger Goodell. 
 Ralph Wilson to be enshrined next. 
 Busy day for the commissioner as he was up in Detroit. Now he's back for the first of the class to go in. We'll return. 
 As we continue here at Canton, Ohio. You'll hear many chants of let's go Buffalo as we get set for the first of the enshrines to go into the Hall of Fame. Marv Levy is here as we get set to have Ralph Wilson the owners of the Bills go in. Fans love players, but these Buffalo fans love their owner. Here he is going into the Hall. Here's Rick Eisen. 
 Let's start enshrining some people around here, huh? This year's presenting class, like the Canton class is quite the mixed bag. It included a Hall of Fame quarterback, a successful general manager and president in this league. A high school athletic director, family members and old school coaches and long time friends who feel like family. And that group just happens to include one of the most popular sportscasters in the business. A voice associated with football for not one, but two generations. And because he was asked to present our first enshrinee, I have the distinct honor of introducing him in a new role for him at these hallowed grounds. Ladies and gentlemen, the very first to ever make a presentation for induction at the Pro Football Hall of Fame. Please watch Chris Berman. 
 CHRIS BERMAN: I think Ralph Wilson has gone through life not expecting anything. Trying to make good things happen but not about himself, necessarily. Charitable beyond belief, yet he doesn't really want you to he know all about it. He served in both oceans in the Navy in World War II. Talk about doing good things for people? I would put that at the head of the list. 
 Ralph Wilson gambled on the City of Buffalo in 1959. And he has kept the Bills in Buffalo in 2009. He understands the passion of western New York, the blue collar, loyal, hard working, we don't ask for much. We ask for just a little loyalty, and we'll give it right back to you times ten. And it's been a two-way street. It's as if everyone in Buffalo is being inducted today into the Hall of Fame. And I think that's why you understand why there are so many blue jerseys with the standing Buffalo. The orange Bills. 
 Ralph is getting this honor because of everything he's done. Those teams that won in the 60's, the quarterback with the big hit. Made the most famous hit in the ten-year history of the NFL made by Mike Stratton, in 1964. To O.J. Simpson getting 2000 yards. To the resurgence of the Bills, with Joe Ferguson the quarterback, Joe's the quarterback a really nice team in the '80s. And of course, a team that we'll never see again, a team that made four straight Super Bowls in the 90's. They had wonderful players. 
 A wonderful coach who is in the Hall of Fame, Marv Levy. They had a wonderful president and general manager in those days, Bill Polland. But all of this happened because they had an owner that let the general manager, the coach, and the players play. And the owner, provided them with the tools to be great. And without pointing to himself and saying look at me, I'm great. My team's great. It's my team. You've not heard that ever from Ralph Wilson. 
 Every time I talk to Ralph Wilson about the AFL, his eyes sparkle and he smiles. He says oh, we had a lot of fun in those days. Those were days without a road map. Without the growth of the AFL and the force of the manager, and then Super Bowl 3. The NFL's growth would have been stunted. In 1970, the NFL was nationwide. Every part of the nation. Without the AFL, you don't see the explosion of the '70s of pro football. 
 The NFL is the greatest game going. It's not quite what we have today without the AFL, and Ralph Wilson was part of that bedrock. So, yes, it's about time. 
 This is one of the wisest selections the Hall of Fame has made in quite a while. There are very few that have had a mark for half of a century in the game of pro football. I think what it means is that if and when the day comes that we no longer and Ralph Wilson with us, and that will be a sad day, the people will remember that he stood for football. He stood for the fans ahead of himself. It's not that he did. It's that they did. 
 Ladies and gentlemen, to present Ralph Wilson, Jr., for enshrinement into the Pro Football Hall of Fame, please welcome Chris Berman. 
 CHRIS BERMAN: Thank you very much. Mr. Wilson, Bruce. I think we have a Buffalo home game. I think we do. 1959, 50 years ago, the NFL was coming off its first big moment, the 58 championship game. The greatest game ever played. The league was on its way. Yet eight gentlemen decided there was room for more pro football in different places. A different sort of pro football. The American Football League. 
 These eight were dubbed the foolish club. One of these gentlemen set his sights on a small jewel. Buffalo, New York. It was at the time the nation's 14th largest metropolitan area. It's people hard working, they were loyal, they'd be really good fans. And so began the Buffalo Bills in the American Football League thanks to one man, Ralph Wilson, Jr. 
 The AFL began, and boy it was fun. Throw on it more often than we run it. Use the whole field. Two-point conversion. It was great. Soon, the Bills would be the league's best. They thrilled the throng in the old rock pile, better known as war memorial stadium. With back-to-back AFL titles in 1964 and 1965, their quarterback would become a major American statesman, Jack Kemp. Hall of Famer Billy Shaw stood guard. The running back was a cookie. The wide receiver had golden wheels. Their defensive line had a dancing bear, a tough Tom, and a big Jim. Linebacker Mike Stratton leveled the big hit in the history of the AFL. George Saenz was a gem at safety. Paul Maguire, he was a classic in many ways as a punter. 
 Western New York was ecstatic. The owner of that team, Ralph Wilson, Jr. But it's the Bills were writing, there were bigger issues as in could the AFL survive? Some teams were almost out of money. If the league could not stay viable with eight clubs, it might go out of business. Ralph Wilson, Jr. Lent the Oakland Raiders his competitors, 400 thousands dollars so they could play football. 
 The first five-year TV deal with ABC was running out. Ralph traveled to the 1964 winter Olympics in Innsbruck, Austria, hardly a hot bed for football. Why? To meet with the NBC folks. He got a wire from a fellow owner, Billy Sullivan of the Patriots, great news. We've gotten an offer from NBC for $600 thousand a club. Mr. Wilson quickly wired back. Don't accept it, we can get more. And he got more. A five-year contract worth $900 thousand a team per season, a monstrous sum in those days. 
 The AFL was here to stay. And had the money to bid on players and the NFL knew it. They instituted secret talks to set in motion the biggest move in pro football history, the merger. Starting the ball rolling on the AFL side. With over a dozen meetings with the then owner of the Baltimore Colts Carol Rosenbloom was Ralph Wilson, Jr. 
 Members were already enshrined here in Canton. The late Lamar Hunt and Al Davis. They certainly had two different styles and they drove the merger from the AFL side. But they would have been the first to tell you that the quiet force that never looked for headlines. The man that just wanted to get it done was Ralph Wilson, Jr., because as the established NFL quickly found out, if he gave you his word, that's all you needed. This became reality in 1970. Just ten years after the AFL began playing in the '70s, pro football exploded. 
 The game and the great league you see today are all as a result of the merger. The '70s saw no work stoppages. The owners labor committee in those days, Ralph Wilson, Jr. 
 All the Bills had some teams back then. You just saw them a little bit. The juice ran through holes opened up by fellow Hall of Famer Joe DeLamielleure and Reggie McKenzie. Quarterback Joe Ferguson went from youngster to veteran. He and Joe Krebs and company had Buffalo back in the postseason in the early '80s. But this was nothing like the late '80s, and the early 90's. When the Bills made it to four straight Super Bowls. 
 Nobody had done it before. Nobody has done it since especially getting off each time after losing the year before with such steely determination to make it back to the Super Bowl. Oh, what a group they had. Hall of Fame coach Marv Levy. The best president and GM in the business, Phil. Followed by Hall of Fame person, John Butler, and the rest of their staffs. And the players. Jim Kelly is behind me tonight. So is they are Monday Thomas. So is James Lofton. In about an hour, so will Bruce Smith. Hunter Reed will be here soon. Ken Hall, Steve Tasker, Cornelius Bennett, Darryl Talley, Shane Conlan, we could go on and on and on. And the fans breaking attendance records, even with the NFL's second smallest market. The parking lot at orchard park was full of campers on Friday before all the Sunday games. 
 And standing in the background of all of this, the one constant through it all, Ralph Wilson, Jr. He is not an owner that you see pacing the sidelines, exerting his team or exerting the fans. All right, I guess he had to come down on the field once. He had to. They renamed the stadium after him, and someone had to give him the keys to the place. Now it's 2009. Buffalo is far from the 14th largest Metropolis in America. These are certainly tough times in a lot of places. Certainly in western New York. Yet 50 years later, the Bills still belonged to Buffalo because your owner has given you his word. 
 As he has given his word so many times in both the AFL and the NFL, do you know that every time a franchise move has come up for a vote, Ralph Wilson, Jr. Has voted against it. Every time. Every time. Because you see the team, it's city and its fans, they have a deal. Here we are in Canton, Ohio. 20 seasons after the Bills played in their first Super Bowl. 40 seasons after the merger. 45 seasons after the Bills won their first championship, and 50 seasons after the AFL started play on on what seemed like a wing and a prayer. Ready at long last to honor a gentleman 90 years young. If it is true that no one -- help me out here Buffalo; okay? That no one circles the wagons like the Buffalo Bills. 
 If that's true, you know this is true. No one has circled the wagons like the only owner the Buffalo Bills have ever had. A founding father of the AFL, a man who served his country in the Navy in World War II. The man I am honored and humbled to present to you for enshrinement into the Pro Football Hall of Fame, Mr. Ralph Wilson, Jr. 
 RALPH WILSON, JR.: Thank you for all those kind words, Chris. I really appreciate it. It's an honor for me to be here. I went to my first pro football game in 1935. The Lions were playing the Bears. Since that time, I have been an avid pro football fan. As Chris said, I went away to college and the Navy. When I came back, I went to work for my father, worked every Sunday at home we would go see a pro football game. 
 During that time, I almost wanted -- I always wanted to own a football team so I'd have a little something to say about it. And let me tell you how I got into professional football. In the fall of 1959, I read in the paper where a young champ named Lamar Hunt and Bud Adams were starting a new professional football league. Lamar lived in Dallas, and he couldn't get an expansion franchise from the NFL. So I decided to start my own league. I happened to have a winter home in Miami, which was one of the prospective sites that I read in the paper. So I called Lamar and told him of my interest. And he said, well, if you're interested, you better get down here right away, because there are other people that are likewise interested. So I flew down the next day, and he granted me the Miami franchise. And we both went down to talk to the city fathers, and see if we could lease the Orange Bowl. It was the only place to play football in those days. The city fathers would not let a new league lease the Orange Bowl, because they had had a bad time with another new league that came before us. So I flew home and forgot about it. 
 About four or five days later I got a call from Lamar, and he said, Ralph, we need an eighth franchise to balance out this new league. One from the east and one from the west. And I'll give you your choice of five different cities where you can place your franchise. And I picked Buffalo. It was a lucky pick, because over the years, they have supported the team in Buffalo beyond our fondest dreams. And without the support, I wouldn't be on this platform tonight. 
 In the early days, an owner was considered brilliant if he could break even. And I remember the story of George Halas, the owner of the Chicago Bears. They played at Wrigley Field. And he always placed two of his big linemen in each end zone to retrieve footballs kicked through the uprights after a touchdown or a field goal. 
 It goes without saying that sometimes it was a little tussle to get the ball away from the fan that had retrieved it: The AFL started the new season in 1960. We played our first game in old War Memorial Stadium downtown which seated about 35 thousands, which was enough. And the first season in the exhibition part we were playing terrible. Now towards the end of the exhibition season, we were playing the New York Titans. Now it's the New York Jets. And my friends in the stands said, Wilson, why don't you go down and talk to the team. You're behind 21-7. You can't do any worse. You've had a lousy start in your games up to date. And I said what am I gonna tell them? Well, tell them something. 
 So at their urging, I went down and walked into our locker room, and there was our head coach, Buster Ramsey. With that expression on his face -- what are you doing in here? 
 I said I want to talk to the team, Buster. Go ahead, talk to them. And I gave that team one of the most inspiring fight talks. It was reminiscent of maybe Newt Rotney or Vince Lombardi. And we lost the game 51-7. Shortly there after, Buster said to me, hey, Ralph, next time talk to the other team. 
 In the early 1960's, there was a battle going on for college players. And we heard a rumor that the National Football League might want to merge. So Vern Hilton appointed Sonny Werdson of the New York, well, Jets, and myself. To talk to the representative of the National Football League. We happen to meet Carol Rosenbloom. I talked to Carol down in Miami that winter at least tenor 12 times. And we set up the parameters of how a merger might take place. There was a lot of animosity between the leagues at that time. 
 We would pool all the television money. Which of course would help the smaller markets, and I was in favor of that. We would have a common draft. So we weren't bidding against each other for players . My talks with Carol didn't finalize the merger, it merely set the parameters of how one would take place. 
 Each team would play in their own league for four years. And have a total realignment in 1970 under the guidance of the then commissioner Pete Rozelle. It was a great experience. We played games in the AFL, and at the end of the year we played the NFL for the championship for the world professional football league. Later known, and I credit the late Lamar Hunt for this, he later named it the Super Bowl. 
 The league grew tremendously. Through television, and interest in towns, very small towns in those days, San Diego, Denver, Oakland. But it spread pro football all over the country. People started to enjoy. Because way back in the 50s there was only 12 teams in the NFL. 
 We had a measure of success ourselves. In 1965 we played the San Diego Chargers for the championship of the AFL in San Diego. They had a great team. We did, too. Not as publicized as them, but we had Billy Shaw, a Hall of Famer. 
 It was the custom of the Chargers in those days to place a cannon in the end zone. And every time the Chargers would score a touchdown, there was an elderly man that would fire the cannon. We won the game 23-0. Everybody went off to the locker room, the players, the coaches. And I stood there in front of our bench in awe in amazement. And I turned around and I saw this elderly Man towing the cannon up the field, and he got right in front of our bench, turned it around, tilted it up to the sky and fired it. Which only goes to show you you can't see anyone in football that likes to get shutout. 
 It has been a grand ride for me. And tonight is the high point. Thank you to so many players, coaches, my family, the Bills family, passionate Bills fans, the Hall of Fame voters, and the Hall of Fame staff who have worked so hard to make this weekend a very pleasurable one. 
 And I also want to thank the host committee in Canton, Ohio, for putting this game on. I want to thank all -- I think there are 4,000 or more volunteers of this community that's helped out, and I haven't seen one person since I've been here that hasn't said hello with a smile on their face. And I want to thank you for that. 
 And a special thanks to my late daughter, Linda. Linda worked for the Bills. She was the only female scout in the league, and she was a good one. We went to games together for many, many years and sat next to each other. And I know she would want to be here tonight to share this honor with me. 
 I share this stage with some great football people. And the honor comes to one who never played the game. I play tennis. Because in tennis, folks, when you go back to serve, you don't have to worry about the rush of Bruce Smith. And you go home without any bruises and clean clothes. 
 In closing, I am so appreciative of this recognition. And I must say that I was appalled at the parade this morning. There must have been 200 thousand people lining both sides of the street. And the thing that impressed me most was one whole block of people sitting in wheelchairs breathing oxygen, and I just thought to myself, this is America when people like that turn out. 
 Luck prevails. And closing in on 91, I still feel that I have youth on my side. And I want to thank all of you very much for this honor. Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT