INDY RACING LEAGUE MEDIA CONFERENCE
July 5, 2011
Randy Bernard
James Hinchcliffe
Gillian Zucker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   THE MODERATOR: Welcome, everybody, to today's IZOD IndyCar Series conference call. We will have three guests with us today. We'll be joined shortly by the driver of the 06 Newman Haas Racing Honda-powered Dallara James Hinchcliffe. And later we'll be joined by IndyCar CEO Randy Bernard, and Auto Club Speedway president, Gillian Zucker. 
 First we'll start with James Hinchcliffe. James, thank you for taking the time to join us today. 
 JAMES HINCHCLIFFE: Thanks for having me on. 
 THE MODERATOR: James will compete in the Honda Indy Toronto for the first time in the IZOD IndyCar Series. He has driven at exhibitions the street circuit four times before in the support series and is currently second in the Sonoco rookie of the year points standings with a best finish of fourth at Long Beach earlier this year. 
 James, I know racing at Toronto means a lot to you no matter what car you're driving. Getting to drive an IndyCar in front of your friends and family must make this weekend very special to you. 
 JAMES HINCHCLIFFE: Yeah, it certainly does. I've been telling everybody that I've been coming to this race since I was 18 months old. I've had the opportunity to drive here in a few of the different junior formulas over the years which have all been incredible in their own right, but at the end of the day I was always sitting in the grandstands with everybody else when the main show started. It's going to be special this year to see the race from a different seat. 
 THE MODERATOR: This is the 25th anniversary of the Honda Indy Toronto. Called various things in the past. You just mentioned you went to your first race at 18 months old, been to race every year since. Outside of your own races, do you have a favorite memory from your years of watching the race? 
 JAMES HINCHCLIFFE: Probably my favorite came in '99. I got the opportunity to spend 10 minutes chatting with Greg Moore, who was my hero growing up, when I started go-karting and everything. I had somehow, through a very long story I won't bore you with, procured the steering wheel off of Greg's first racecar, his '91 Van Diemen Formula Ford. I stood outside his trailer for three hours and ten minutes through varying weather conditions and different people standing with me, none of them willing to stay the whole time. 
 After a while, Greg actually came out, one of his mechanics went and got him when I explained the story of the wheel. He came out and chatted with my sister and I for 10 or 15 minutes. It was the only conversation I ever got to have with Greg and certainly one of my biggest memories from any race ever. 
 THE MODERATOR: Canadians are very prideful of their own, if it's hockey or auto racing. You told a story of Greg Moore. What is it like to be a Canadian racing in Canada, and last year you won at Edmonton? How important is it for a Canadian to do well in his home race? 
 JAMES HINCHCLIFFE: Well, you know, obviously Canadians are very proud people. We have a sort of small population compared to some of the other big countries in the world. When it comes to sports, we like to prove that we can still compete. 
 Motor racing is no different. I think there's a big motor racing heritage in Canada, especially with open-wheel. So they're very big fans. Even when I was racing in the junior formula, the support that you got from the fans in Toronto and Edmonton was incredible. They're very knowledgeable, very passionate. They just love cheering on the locals. 
 For me certainly that win in Edmonton last year was one of the high points of my racing career. I raced in Canada a bunch of times, but it was the first time in my formula car career that I managed to take a win on home soil. So it was a nice moment, especially after rebounding from a DNF in Toronto the week before. 
 THE MODERATOR: Let's open it up for questions for James Hinchcliffe. 

 Q. I wanted to see could you talk about making the jump from Indy Lights to Indy, what that transition has been like for you this season? 
 JAMES HINCHCLIFFE: The transition has been certainly more difficult in some aspects than I was expecting and maybe a little smoother in other aspects. It's been a little bit of everything. 
 The workload in IndyCar is certainly a lot more, and more than I was expecting. But to the other side of that, the first time I got to drive the car, I was very pleased to see how comfortable I was in it right away. I think a lot of that credit has to go to the Indy Lights Series, the time I spent there, how close that car is. 
 It's a very competitive series. You really appreciate that now you are driving against the best guys in North America. It's been a huge learning experience. Rookies don't get a ton of testing these days, so every race weekend is basically a two- or three-day test session. It's all about getting laps. I've thoroughly enjoyed every minute. 
 We've had some ups and some downs. Some aspects were more difficult. At the end of the day I've worked very hard to get to this point and I'm learning as much as I possibly can every opportunity I get and just enjoying every single minute of it. 

 Q. The workload, is that on the track and off? Also, there's a huge rookie crop this year. Does that help a little bit so you're not the only newbie racing against some of these vets? 
 JAMES HINCHCLIFFE: To answer your first question, the workload, yeah, on and off. Obviously the races are so much longer than anything that I'm used to, pit stops, the strategy, making sure the physical conditioning is there, making sure that your mind can stay in the game for that length of time. That was all part of it that I was a little bit more prepared for because I knew that was coming. 
 Certainly the off-track side of things was a big step up and a little bit of a wake-up call. It's good, it means they're keeping us busy and that's what we want to be doing. 
 In terms of the rookie crop, I would rather there were fewer rookies. It would make an easier run of it. I'm actually very fortunate. In all seriousness, I'm glad I'm a rookie this year because this is probably the best rookie crop they've had in over a decade. It's cool to be able to put your name on that list with that crop. 
 I think whoever walks away with the rookie of the year award this year can truly say that he or she earned it and had some fierce competition trying to get it. It was certainly no walk in the park. 
 We're going to do everything we can to make sure it's our name on that trophy at the end of the season. Either way, it's good to know you've gone up against such a good crop of guys and girls and been able to compete. 

 Q. James, you placed fourth in Long Beach. That course is somewhat comparable to the one in Toronto. Do you agree with that assessment? If so, does that give you confidence coming to this race? 
 JAMES HINCHCLIFFE: Yeah, I think there are definitely some similarities between Toronto and Long Beach. If you had to pick a circuit that was closest to Toronto, it probably would be Long Beach. 
 For sure, I guess that's a confidence booster heading into this weekend. But I think we've had pretty good cars in all the street circuits so far this year. It's just a type of track that Newman Haas seems to enjoy. This particular track, they've won seven times, five of them with Michael Andretti. I watched them do it every single time they did it. 
 We're hoping again that we'll have a good car here. I just seem to like street circuits. I have since I first started racing them back in 2004. Although Toronto has not necessarily been my strongest track historically, it's the same type of circuit. If everything goes our way, I think we can have another strong finish. 

 Q. Have you been able to look at the new configuration of the track in Edmonton? 
 JAMES HINCHCLIFFE: I've seen drawings and renderings, but not a whole lot of real-life shots yet. 

 Q. It looks dramatically different from where you won last year. 
 JAMES HINCHCLIFFE: Yeah, it does. It's one of those sort of bittersweet things. On one hand the Edmonton layout before was one of my favorites of all time. Probably my favorite layout for a temporary street circuit anyway. It was fast, flowing, very physical, very demanding. One I really enjoyed driving. 
 On the other side of things, the challenges of learning the new course is something every driver really enjoys. I think every driver believes they're that little bit better at learning a new track than somebody else. They all hope that we're going to be the quickest guy to pick it up and have a little bit of an advantage. 
 Either way, learning a new track is something we enjoy doing. The new layout looks pretty fun. It looks like it's going to improve the racing. The old one may not have produced the most thrilling races each year. We'll have to see how it all plays out. I'm looking forward to getting there and getting my first laps on it. 

 Q. You were talking about Greg Moore. That was '99. That must have been devastating news for you as a young guy. 
 JAMES HINCHCLIFFE: It certainly was. He was, like I said, my hero coming up. My family were all big Greg Moore fans. I was watching the race that day. It was a very sad day. As a young driver sort of making decisions about whether or not he wanted to put the effort and commitment to making a career in racing, having the guy you idolize be killed in a race put a lot of question marks over things, not only for me but obviously for my parents. So it was a very tough time for the whole family. 
 But we decided to stick through it. Now, luckily, I'm in this position. I'd like to think that if Greg were still around that I'd be doing him proud. 

 Q. Going to be tough going to California next year? 
 JAMES HINCHCLIFFE: I imagine there will be some interesting emotions going to California next year. Obviously not just for me. There's still a lot of drivers around who were very close with Greg personally. 
 My admiration for him was mostly from a distance. I never got the opportunity, unfortunately, to get to know him very well. I've got to talk to guys like T.K. and Dario and Vasser over a drink or something after a race about some of the stories they have from Greg, the memories. It's no doubt that he was a very highly respected and very much loved member of the community. 
 So I think going back there is going to be a little bit tough for a bunch of people. 

 Q. James, who was your greatest help in transitioning from Indy Lights to IndyCar? 
 JAMES HINCHCLIFFE: Wow. It's probably tough to narrow it down to one person. But if you had to pick an individual, I'd have to say that Oriol is probably the single greatest contributor, just being my teammate. He was there at my first test. Every track that we go to now, I'm going to for the first time in this car. He's a huge asset as a teammate. 
 Our personal relationship is very good. He's always super willing to help. I think there's a lot of mutual respect there. We've been able to work well together, with our engineers, on trying to improve the car on weekends when maybe it didn't roll off with what we wanted. 
 Had all sorts of advice and tips, especially during the month of May, places like Texas that can be a little bit intimidating, Milwaukee. So there's no doubt that he's been a huge, huge contributor to that. If you were to pick one person, he would probably have to top the list. 

 Q. Your feelings on going to California next year. It's going to be a debut for you at a new track, an oval. 
 JAMES HINCHCLIFFE: I think it's good for the series. I remember watching a lot of races there when I was younger, watching some thrilling battles there. I believe we'll be able to put on a really good show. 
 But as we sort of touched on, I think it will be a bit of an emotional time for me to go to the place where the guy I idolized as a young driver coming up was killed. But I think, like I said, it's a place where we can put on a good show for the fans. That's what IndyCar is all about, is putting on good races, showing people that we are the fastest, most versatile drivers on the planet, so I'm looking forward to it. 
 I think more than one person will go in there racing in honor of Greg. Yeah, it's really about his memory. It was a tragic loss for the sport. But I think Greg would want us to go back and want us to still put on a good show, would want the pass for the lead to be on the outside. We'll do what we can do to try to make that happen for him. 

 Q. I want to get a little sense of what you do to chill out away from the track. You're involved with your website. I saw you're a guitar player as well. 
 JAMES HINCHCLIFFE: I own a guitar and I know how to hold it. I wouldn't say that I'm anything impressive. I don't think Clapton has anything to worry about. 
 But, no, I mean, I certainly think that getting the opportunity to relax and get away from it all once in a while is very important, especially as I was saying earlier, the off-track workload is more than certainly any of my years past and more than I was expecting. 
 This last weekend was a good example. I've been going up to a small cottage about two hours north of Toronto here, up in the Muskoka region, which is a popular place for people to go. It was Canada Day weekend. Some friends and I went up there, detached from the world, put our cell phones in the car, did some boating and swimming, got away from it for a little while. It's one of my favorite places on the earth to go. I like to go into wilderness when I get some time off. 
 Yes, there was a guitar there. We did play a little bit. Nothing that's going to be put on a record anytime soon, I don't think so. 

 Q. You're not cutting an album or anything like that? 
 JAMES HINCHCLIFFE: I'm not abandoning my IndyCar career for a career in music just yet. One Canadian tried it and it didn't work out too well for Jacques either (laughter). 

 Q. The next three courses, do you think you'll be able to accumulate the points you need to catch up in the rookie standings? 
 JAMES HINCHCLIFFE: Tough call. I think obviously JR has been very competitive all year long. One of his strengths I think has been that even on some of the road and street courses where maybe he didn't have a great car in qualifying, he just always brings the car home. Those finishes are very important. 
 St. Pete is a great example. Didn't have a great car, but managed to get in the top 10. He's going to be a difficult guy to beat. There's no doubt that that the Panther team has a super strong car on the ovals. People were expecting him to pull out strong performances, and he did. We also managed to keep up in some of those and have some good results. 
 We'll see. I certainly hope things might swing back a little bit more in our favor over the next couple and we'll sort of continue the ebb and flow for the fight for the rookie of the year championship. 
 THE MODERATOR: Seeing that we have no more questions for James, we will thank him for his time and wish him the best of luck this weekend at Toronto. 
 JAMES HINCHCLIFFE: Thank you very much. Appreciate everybody coming out. 
 THE MODERATOR: We're now joined by Randy Bernard and Gillian Zucker. Earlier today IndyCar and Auto Club Speedway announced that the IZOD IndyCar Series will return to the two-mile oval for a night race in the fall of 2012. 
 Randy, with all the tracks available, those who have been asking IndyCar for race days, what attracted IndyCar to Auto Club Speedway? 
 RANDY BERNARD: It's one of the largest markets in the United States, number one. We need more ovals. We're trying to keep a balanced series. We also think a night race there will be very exciting. It has a lot of history with IndyCar. We think they're some very solid partners that we can bring on to enhance the event. 
 I will say on a personal event, Gillian and her team have been outstanding to work with, very aggressive on wanting this event. 
 THE MODERATOR: You mentioned the balance. I know the schedule isn't ready for release and you're not going to give any hints to what else is out there. How important is adding another oval and keeping the balance of road and street races to the schedule? 
 RANDY BERNARD: Well, we want to say we're the fastest and most versatile racecar drivers in the world. That's what will differentiate us from other forms of motorsports. So we need to try to live up to that. It's very difficult sometimes when you're trying to complement road, street and ovals. 
 IndyCar, the tradition and history, is all about ovals. What we're trying to do is make sure we can maintain some great racetracks for that. 
 THE MODERATOR: Gillian, it's been nearly seven years since your facility hosted open-wheel racing. The track and area have a long history in IndyCar racing. What makes the IZOD IndyCar Series such a good fit for Auto Club Speedway? 
 GILLIAN ZUCKER: I think as most people know this racetrack was built by the Penskes, built with open-wheel racing in mind. In our minds, this is the most competitive place to see open-wheel racing in the country. We hold the world speed record for the fastest lap of 241 miles an hour. We know that the finishes here have been unlike any other. 
 We feel like this is going to provide a really excellent opportunity to provide world class racing for our fans and diversify our schedule. 
 THE MODERATOR: How important was it to add IndyCar to the track schedule for 2012? 
 GILLIAN ZUCKER: Well, I think Randy can attest to the fact that we wouldn't leave him alone (laughter). I think he had a choice of taking out a restraining order or granting a race here. We're thrilled he opted to grant the race here. 
 It's not just about our staff being excited about it, wanting to round out the schedule for the community, provide the economic impacts that this type of event can bring, it's also just about how exciting this racing is and providing something that's truly dynamic that fans could enjoy. We couldn't be more thrilled to have open-wheel racing back at Auto Club Speedway. 
 THE MODERATOR: Let's open it up for questions. 

 Q. Do you have any idea how many miles this race is going to be yet? 
 GILLIAN ZUCKER: It's a 200-mile race. 

 Q. I know in the past the IRL has wanted to talk about coming back here, but the previous leadership expressed concern coming back and racing in front of a lot of empty seats. What has changed since then? How are you going to try to get more fans out there? The last few races weren't the most well-attended. 
 GILLIAN ZUCKER: I think, first of all, based on the timing of this announcement, it was really important for us that we were able to reach an agreement now because with the announcement coming this early we're able to include the IZOD IndyCar Series in our renewals. So fans who have season packages or club seat members will have an opportunity from the beginning to lock in their seats for IndyCar racing. That will help to enhance the crowd. 
 In addition to that, this is something where there isn't a day that goes by that we don't have fans asking for the return of open-wheel racing. As I know you recall, when the split happened with open-wheel racing, there were fans that were disappointed about what was going on in the industry. Some of them showed that disappointment by not attending events. Now that the series is so cohesive, has so much momentum behind it, with all the changes that Randy made in the past year, the excitement he's bringing to the sport, I think the timing is just absolutely right. We're prepared to aggressively promote it with more than a year to be able to do that. 
 By bringing back a night event, we feel that will even enhance it more for fans. So we fully expect to have a big crowd. 

 Q. Even though California is only going to be right now a 200 mile, do you think in the future it could be extended to 500 and bring back the days of the Triple Crown? 
 RANDY BERNARD: I think right now we've got a lot of exciting things happening next year. We have three engine manufacturers that will be competing in the IZOD IndyCar Series. We're going from a V8 to a V6. We're going from 630 horsepower up to anywhere from 550 to 750. We're going to have direct injection turbocharged. We have a lot of exciting things happening. 
 I think I never want to say never, but right now we wanted to focus on what we think is going to make our series better and really work at selling tickets for Gillian and Fontana for this race. 
 So my answer to that is, not in the near future. 
 GILLIAN ZUCKER: I think one of the things we are looking at is this will now be the only state to host a street course, a road course and oval race all for the same series. We certainly had a lot of participation from the state in attracting the event to Auto Club Speedway. So there's some enthusiasm between trying to cross-promote between all three racetracks, figure out some unique promotion that can be done based on the fact there's such a diverse schedule here in California. 

 Q. When did these negotiations begin? What has been the toughest part of it? Who initiated the negotiations to bring this race back? 
 RANDY BERNARD: I can say Gillian initiated it. Gosh, it's been probably, I don't know, last year you flew up and met with me at Infineon and have been aggressively trying to get a race since then. 
 She's gone all the way out to having the Governor of California call. I mean, she's been so aggressive on wanting a race. We started negotiating back then. 
 As I've said all along, it's not strictly about the sanctioning fee, it's about how we promote it and how we're going to drive fans to these big speedways, it's very important to us. 
 I think she has a very, very solid partner with her title Southern California AAA. I had a meeting with them last week. They're very excited. I think those are the type of partners that you need in making this a major event. 
 GILLIAN ZUCKER: Certainly I was the pursuer here on behalf of the fans in Southern California. We really feel like we can put a full grandstand out there for an IZOD IndyCar Series race, particularly one that's at night. 
 Part of all of this was making sure the pieces fell together. We would be able to have the right promotional window, that we would have a good separation between us and Grand Prix at Long Beach. Having a fall event helps. We really wanted to be able to bring a night event to fans here. So that made a big difference. Really trying to create a business model we knew would work. 
 The promotional partners that we have, they're involved in the track, we reached out to all of them and said, If we're able to bring an event like this back to Southern California, would you be interested in participating? The overwhelming response to that was, Absolutely. 
 I think our sponsors are really, really excited about what's going on in the series. They're going to show it through promotional activation. So we're not in this alone. We have everyone from, as Randy mentioned, the state to regional to local government entities who are helping us, all of the sports councils and commissions have been involved, the chambers, and our partners, including Auto Club, who has taken a lead position in helping us to attract the event. 

 Q. Gillian, why did you choose a night race? 
 GILLIAN ZUCKER: Again, it's really about providing diversity for the fans. One of the things that fans have been writing about, in addition to wanting the IndyCar Series back here at Auto Club Speedway, they also want to see racing under the lights. 
 It provides an additional level of excitement to have a night event. So by being able to do both, we feel like we're going to bring not only the excitement and speed of IndyCar racing but also the extra pizazz of watching them race under the lights. 

 Q. Randy, I read recently that you said if you didn't get a 1.0 television rating for the Vegas race, you would quit on the spot. Was that true? 
 RANDY BERNARD: It keeps climbing (laughter). 
 Actually, I says last year we received a .3 rating. I said if we did that, I would quit on the spot, because that's just not acceptable. That shows that I failed. I said that in confidence that we will not do a .3. I threw out very jokingly, I stand behind it, if we did a .8 I wouldn't be happy and I would quit. 
 I truly believe we're going to do a big rating this year. I can't guarantee anything over that a 1.0, 1.2, 1.5. I want to see something between a 1.7 and a 2.0. I'm always an optimist, as most of you probably know. But I think it's very doable. 
 Why would I say something like this? What's the difference? First of all, we're on ABC, we're not on Versus this year, on the last race. Second of all, ABC has the Charlotte race the night before on Saturday night live on ABC, which means that we're not up against NASCAR on Sunday, and we should get some pretty good promotions during that race if everything goes right. 
 There's a lot of reasons why I'm banking on good ratings there. I'll tell you, it was planned. None of this just happened to happen flight by night. 

 Q. The only reason I ask is because it sort of raised the possibility that whatever happens you might not be here a year from now when the Fontana race occurs. 
 RANDY BERNARD: Let's just hope that doesn't happen because I want to be here for a long time (laughter). 
 I am that confident. I'm not cocky. I'm not saying that in a cocky way. Those aren't numbers we should be proud of. I just think those are very reachable. There's no way we will do a .3, no way. In my honest opinion, I don't think that weekend we'll do a .8. I know we're competing against the NFL, going up against the Giants and Cowboys that day, if there is even a season. 

 Q. It was reported the general admission ticket price will be $30. Will they be permitted into the grandstands? 
 GILLIAN ZUCKER: Yes. We have a ticket charge up on our website where you can see the general admission seating. There's a significant portion of the grandstand reserved for general admission seating at $30. We also wanted to highlight the fact that kids 12 and under are free in the general admission sections. 
 We have really seen a tremendous amount of growth in this season with families enjoying motorsports. We want to really continue that by providing affordable pricing for people in this region who were really hit hard during this economic crisis. 
 The reserved seating is $50 and the club areas are $60. 

 Q. How many people attended yesterday's event? 
 GILLIAN ZUCKER: You know, I don't have an attendance number on it. If I was going to guess, 20,000, 25,000. 

 Q. You indicate the state is providing support. How much money is the state giving you? 
 GILLIAN ZUCKER: Right now we don't have a financial commitment from the state. We have a promotional support through the Travel and Tourism Commission. If you're familiar with that entity, they promote events throughout the state of California that have economic impact and encourage travel. So things like America's Cup that's coming to San Francisco, part of the Tour of California bicycle race, any type of those events where people come from all over the country and world to visit California, they'll assist with promotional efforts. We have quite a large database, some big outreach. They've done some work with us in the past around our NASCAR events, as well. It's been extremely successful. 

 Q. Randy, with this announcement today, do you see a possibility of coming back to more IFC tracks? 
 RANDY BERNARD: I think there could be more IFC tracks on our schedule next year. I don't see why not. I have been talking to other presidents of tracks that want to be very aggressive and are laying out plans on how they can promote our series. That's what's important to me. 
 I'm not going to say it would be one, two or zero more, but I am good friends with Lisa Kennedy, John Saunders. Last year because of timing and because of availability at tracks, moving up of some NASCAR races, it didn't work that there were any IFC tracks on our schedule. But we've continued to communicate all the time. 
 It's just a matter of time before you see one or two or three IFC tracks on our schedule, like Gillian. 

 Q. The schedule for 2012, do you see any more additions to the schedule next your or subtractions? 
 RANDY BERNARD: I'm going to go out on a limb right now. I'm a big believer we need to be around 20 events. If we can go to 20 events, you're going to see some new tracks on our schedule. 
 I think there's a possibility that you can see a couple tracks that we might take off. Right now we're in that time of renegotiating, seeing what makes the most sense to IndyCar, the IZOD IndyCar Series. 

 Q. Can you clarify the race distance. The previous ones were 200 laps or 400 miles. Is it 200 miles or 400 miles? I think a 200-mile race would take less than an hour. 
 GILLIAN ZUCKER: You're exactly right. It's 200 laps. 

 Q. You mentioned something about the three tracks working together here in the state. Is that as a promotional thing or is there something in the works to give a driver that performs an extra bonus if they perform well at the three races? 
 GILLIAN ZUCKER: We would have to work through the IZOD IndyCar Series competition folks to have an approval, but that's ultimately what we'd like to see, is something that really creates some excitement around these three events in California. 
 We've done a bunch of cross-promotion in the past with the Grand Prix at Long Beach. I've talked with both Jim Michaelian and Steve Page. They're enthusiastic about this. I think we all feel that having the series in this state, especially with the schedule separation between them, is going to be great for the series and great for all three events. 

 Q. Do we have any specific driver comments, feedback on this return, especially the chance to see some of the more experienced drivers that were in CART versus IRL that now have the chance to compete side-by-side? 
 RANDY BERNARD: I haven't talked to any drivers since we've announced this. I'm sure some of our PR folks have. 

 Q. Is there a possibility that this may be the season-ending race? 
 RANDY BERNARD: No. We're very happy and excited about ending our series with the IZOD IndyCar Series World Championships in Las Vegas. We believe that's a great destination city that will provide great entertainment and we'll have great racing. I think that's something for long-term. We have a partnership with Las Vegas Visitor Convention Authority. This coming Saturday we're going to be announcing another major sponsor from Vegas involved in that event. 

 Q. Randy, you've promoted the heck out of the IZOD IndyCar Series and done a great job. What has been a greater challenge, promoting the bull riding or IndyCar? 
 RANDY BERNARD: Two separate sports completely. The one thing about bull riding was there was no brand recognition with Professional Bull Riders or PBR because it was started from scratch in 1994, where IndyCar has 100 years of tradition and history to it. 
 I think it didn't take me long. If you asked me what was my most negative attribute coming in, it was not knowing the sport of racing. If you asked me what my most positive attribute was, it would have been not knowing racing. I mean by that that I didn't have any baggage. Everyone gave me a chance and opportunity. 
 One of the first things I saw was this should be all about IndyCar, not about CART, Champ Car, we're all one now. Our history goes back with IndyCar. That's why we want to make sure we're promoting it's the IZOD IndyCar Series, it's IndyCar, we've taken all the statistics and rolled them all up into one. 
 Dario Franchitti and A.J. Foyt and all the statistics are all in the same statistical book now, which is think is very important. IndyCar is back. It's taken us time to build that. But it's exciting to see just our crowds this year, excluding Milwaukee. 
 THE MODERATOR: Seeing that we have no more questions for Randy and Gillian, we thank them for their time today. This will wrap-up the IZOD IndyCar Series conference call. Thank you. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT