U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2018
Daniel Hillier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Well obviously it's not the result you wanted.  What happened today?
DANIEL HILLIER: I mean, yeah, wasn't the result I wanted, but, yeah, Davis played really well today.  When I made a birdie he made a birdie; when I made par he made birdie; when I made bogey he made par.  So it's one of those days couldn't quite time it as well as I like.
But, yeah, Davis was playing really well and deserved to win today.
Q. Is there anything you could have done better in terms of the way you played?
DANIEL HILLIER: Yeah, I think my ball striking wasn't quite as good today.  Coming into the greens I had some pretty simple shots coming in and, par on the last hole was (interference).  Nice little wedge in there.  Put it in the front bunker, and that's just no place to put it.  Stuff like that that doesn't help out at all.
Yeah, something to learn from, and hopefully I can come back next year and give it a better shot.
Q. Any of the wind give you trouble selecting clubs or judging distances?
DANIEL HILLIER: Yeah, I mean, there as a bit of wind there, so definitely factored into what we were trying to hit.  Yeah, once you get it up in the air it's definitely stronger than what you feel down on the ground.  Definitely caught me off guard a couple of times; dropped a couple shots as a result.
Q. Overall you got to feel this is a great performance, especially playing in this the first time.
DANIEL HILLIER: Yeah, I'm extremely happy with the week; co-medalist my first time here at Pebble Beach in the U.S. Amateur.  I'm extremely happy and very thankful for the support back home.  Yeah, as I said, hopefully come back next year and try it all again.
Q. You'll have time to think about this later, but just off the top of your head, what will this do for you going down the road?  What kind of confidence does it provide?
DANIEL HILLIER: I guess moving forward I know what when I'm playing well I can compete with some of the best amateurs in the world.  Just make sure I stick to what I know.
Obviously it's not going to be easy every week, but, yeah, if I can play well, stay patient, and wait until my time I guess.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT