U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2018
Daniel Hillier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Kind of a tough start where you were down two.  Were you feeling any pressure at that point?  
DANIEL HILLIER: I'd be lying if I said no.  Yeah, I mean, coming into the match play as the No. 1 seed, there's always that little bit of expectation, I think, lurking around.  But yeah, after the slow start, I managed to put a good roll on a putt on the par-3, the fifth hole, and that sort of calmed the nerves, I guess, and let me get into a bit of a rhythm, which was nice.   
 Q.  How far was that putt on 5?  
DANIEL HILLIER: I'd say it was 40 to 50 feet.  I missed a couple of real short ones early on, so the confidence levels weren't too high, but then draining that one I sort of managed to get back into my routine, and yeah, everything just fell into place from there, I guess.   
 Q.  The match was squared then, and then you guys halved about six holes in a row.  Things were kind of tight.  What were you feeling at that point on the back side?  
DANIEL HILLIER: Yeah, I mean, it was a good tussle for the lead there.  Neither of us were doing a whole lot.  Yeah, I guess just solid golf, and yeah, I managed to come in with a couple of birdies, and yeah, that obviously helped me get over the line in the end.   
 Q.  And then 12 and 13, you won those with pars to pull ahead.  How did you do that, and what were you thinking at that point?  
DANIEL HILLIER: I guess more me, coming into the final six holes, I'm just trying to play my game plan as much as possible, not trying to worry about what my opposition is doing.  Obviously I'm aware of the situation, but I don't let it affect what I do.  I've got my own game that I play, and I just stick to it as much as I can.   
 Q.  And then you birdied 15, and that kind of -- it wasn't over, but it kind of put the nail in the coffin as far as the match was concerned?  
DANIEL HILLIER: Yeah, that was a good solid there.  I put it down the right side there.  I knew there was a left pin, and managed to hit a nice 9-iron in there to four, five feet and managed to make the putt, so it was a nice way to -- not finish the match, but nice way to get myself in a good position coming home.   
 Q.  Obviously you played Pebble Beach in stroke play, but maybe it's a whole different story in match play.  How did it feel out there in a match situation on this course?  
DANIEL HILLIER: It's definitely got a different feel to it, I think, just you and your opponent there.  I guess that's with any golf course.  Match play is completely different to stroke play.  So yeah, as I said, I just tried to stick to my game plan that I had set, and whatever was going to happen was going to happen, and I was going to be happy either way with how everything went.   
 Q.  As you went around today, did you see the risk and reward options that some of these holes offer at Pebble?  
DANIEL HILLIER: Absolutely, yeah.  There's a couple of holes that you can obviously choose to be a bit more aggressive on, but my game plan has been a little more conservative this week.  I know if you bite off more than you can chew, the risk is sometimes greater than the reward.  Yeah, like I said, I just kept it in front of me and made sure I didn't make any big mistakes.   
 Q.  It's pretty calm right now, but the wind did kick up.  Was it up in your match?  
DANIEL HILLIER: Yeah, there was a little bit there to start off with, which made it interesting, probably 10 miles, 15 miles or so, and yeah, obviously that little bit of wind makes you think about where you're putting the ball that little bit more and makes it probably that much harder, so yeah, it was a good test to start out.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT