U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2018
Daniel Hillier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So it was a tough start to your round, those three bogeys in row.  What were you thinking?  
DANIEL HILLIER: Yeah, it was a very tough start.  I mean, I actually felt really relaxed on the 1st tee.  Hit a good iron shot into 1, and then after that went a bit downhill.   
Managed to reset after those three bogeys and finish really strong.   
 Q.  There's usually that one shot that gets you going.  Was there that one shot today?  
DANIEL HILLIER: Not really.  I think it was more just a mindset change than a shot that flipped the switch.   
Yeah, I've been doing a lot work on my mental game, especially when I get into these situations, so it was nice to be able to pull through and get it back on the way home.   
 Q.  Obviously birdied 17, but then you started with a pair of birdies on what was your back but the front side.  Tell me about the birdies at 1 and 2.  
DANIEL HILLIER: Yeah, birdie at 1 was -- yeah, is it was probably one of the more solid holes I played all day.  Just hit it at the right side and it trickled into the rough; laid up and hit a good wedge shot to 15 feet and holed it.   
2, I got a bit fortunate.  I had probably a 25-, 30-footer and managed to put it (indiscernible).  It was nice to drop that one in and keep the momentum going.   
 Q.  Then we get to 4.  Tell me about your yardage and what you had there.  
DANIEL HILLIER: Yeah.  I had -- I'm thinking meters.  I had 150 meters, so 165 yards, and I was tossing up between 8- and 9-iron.  I thought, Well, if I can turn a 9-iron over and get it running down that green then it could be pretty close.   
I hit it exactly how I wanted to and saw it land, and then everyone was cheering.  I thought, Ah, not again.  I've had another one.   
So it was a pretty awesome moment.  I'll remember that for a while.   
 Q.  How far do you think it rolled until it went in the hole?  
DANIEL HILLIER: It was a little pitch mark.  It was about seven yards short.  So, yeah, I was trying to land it about that as well.  Yeah, probably one of my better executed shots of the day.   
 Q.  Then you finish up with a solid up and down from the front bunker here on 9.  
DANIEL HILLIER: Yeah, that was nice way to finish it.  Yeah, one of those putts that you really want to hole just to put a stamp on it.  It was nice to see it go in the middle, so, yeah, all in all good day.   
 Q.  So the possibility is you would be co-medalist, because Cole Hammer is also at 6-under.  What would that mean to you to be medalist at a U.S. Amateur?  
DANIEL HILLIER: Oh, it would be -- well, it would be really special feeling, to be honest.  I mean, coming into this tournament I was going to be happy to make match play and then see how we went from there, but to come out on top would be, yeah, amazing with Cole obviously, who is a really good golfer and has been playing well lately.   
So, yeah, I'm in good company.   
 Q.  What were your expectations coming into this?  Here you are playing as well as anyone, and where was your mind when you came here?  
DANIEL HILLIER: I came off some pretty good finishes over the last few tournaments in the U.S.  I was in a pretty good space.   
I knew if I just kept to what I knew and put the ball in the right spots I was going to have a good chance of being up near the top.   
It's nice to be able to execute as well as I did with my irons and a few good putts along the way to help out.   
So, yeah, very happy with how it's been going.   
 Q.  As great as this all is, everybody goes back to zero now.  Match play starts tomorrow.  
DANIEL HILLIER: Yeah.   
 Q.  How do you feel about your game heading into match play, and have you played much match play in your career?  
DANIEL HILLIER: Yeah, I feel really good about match play.  I've played it quite a bit back home with the (wind interference)...  back home is also a stroke play/match play format.  Yeah, it's quite familiar.  I'm looking forward to getting into those and seeing if I can get through to the end of it.   
 Q.  And now that you've also played these courses, how comfortable are you with Pebble Beach, since that's where all the match play will be played?  
DANIEL HILLIER: I think it suits my eye.  It's a ball-striker's course.  I've been hitting the ball well.  If I can keep doing that for the rest of the week, yeah.   
I mean, I can't control what anyone else does.  I can only control what I do.  I'm going to be doing that as much as I can and seeing how it goes.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT