U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2018
Daniel Hillier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  4-under; how do you feel after the first day?  
DANIEL HILLIER: I feel great, yeah.  Pretty nerve-racking start, obviously being my first U.S. Amateur and being at Pebble Beach, as well.  It's a pretty recognizable venue.  So yeah, it was a lot of fun out there today.  Had my caddie there who's a good friend of mine.  We sort of just kept everything nice and relaxed and managed to put a good score up on the board.   
 Q.  The birdies, did you hit it close, make some bombs?  
DANIEL HILLIER: Actually my first birdie of the day was a chip-in on the third, so that was -- it was a tough chip, as well, so it was kind of looking like making bogey there, so I managed to sneak it in there, so it was nice.  The rest of them I was hitting it nice and close, and managed to actually hole out on 14 for eagle from 110.  That was a bit of a bonus there towards the end.   
 Q.  How did you find 12?  
DANIEL HILLIER: 12, the par-3, it's a tough hole, obviously.  I mean, they can really make it tough with a sort of front left pin.  But I managed to hit a good iron shot in there to 25, 30 feet, just lagged up the putt there to made an easy 3.  But yeah, can certainly bite you if you're off target.   
 Q.  What does this say about you that you make this debut at Pebble Beach and you shoot 4-under?  
DANIEL HILLIER: Yeah, I don't know.  Yeah, it's a pretty awesome feeling.  I don't really know what to say.  But yeah, hopefully I can come out again and do it tomorrow, would be really nice.  But I'm just happy that I've managed to put up a solid score for today.   
 Q.  Do you have any feeling about tomorrow in terms of another venue?  Match play is what everybody shoots for; do you become a more aggressive player?  Do you dial back?  What do you do?  
DANIEL HILLIER: No, I think I'm just going to keep the same game plan.  I think I had a good practice round there yesterday, and everything I decided to do I feel like is the right choice, so I'm just going to go out there and try and execute it as well as I can.  That's all I can do.   
 Q.  Did you check your phone?  Get any calls yet from anybody?  
DANIEL HILLIER: I haven't checked it yet, no.  I think my parents will be right up in my ear, which will be nice.  Will be good to hear from them.  Yeah, I look forward to that.   
 Q.  Was there any point in the round that you were putting with your eyes closed?  
DANIEL HILLIER: No.  That was a thing of the past.  Yeah, I actually did it in the British Amateur, and it was a tough time with my putting.  I was quite uncomfortable, but I've been working very hard almost starting from square one, but it's feeling really good now, and I've been for the most part rock solid over the short ones, so it's feeling a lot better, which is nice.   
 Q.  What do you think was the strongest part of your game today?  
DANIEL HILLIER: I think my ball-striking with my irons.  Yeah, I felt really comfortable over them, and I knew the shots that I wanted to hit, and I managed to execute them with confidence.  Yeah, I think that was by far my best asset today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT