THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2007
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   STEWART McDOUGALL:  K.J. Choi, 72 for a total of 3-under par.  K.J., you're still very much in contention for The Open Championship.  How do you think things will go tomorrow? 
 K.J. CHOI:  Overall today was difficult.  Going to the back nine it started to rain, the temperature dropped, and I just didn't have a feel for my body.  Stricker shot 7-under in these conditions.  I think if I do well tomorrow, I could have the same type of a round. 

 Q.  Did you consider using a 9-iron off the tee at 18? 
 K.J. CHOI:  Yesterday the ball went left so today I tried to hit a fade, but actually I pushed it.  But it was actually the shot that I wanted to hit.  I ended up with a bogey, but it wasn't that bad.  So I think tomorrow if the luck falls on me I'll have a good hole on the final one. 

 Q.  Do you see today as a missed opportunity, or are you still happy to be in contention? 
 K.J. CHOI:  I still have another 18 holes to go so all I can do is just try my best.  I really have no regrets.  I think a lot can happen in the next day, so there's really no pressure you're on me.  Today I bogeyed the last hole, but it's not the end of the world.  I think if I just prepare myself I'll have a good round tomorrow. 

 Q.  I think you've won twice in America this year coming from behind.  Are you able to use those experiences come Sunday tomorrow? 
 K.J. CHOI:  I don't think I really shot that bad today.  My shots weren't that bad today.  Some of the putts didn't go in.  I think just overall today my rhythm, I didn't have my rhythm because it was so cold out there.  I hate this kind of weather. 
 But I think tomorrow all I can do is believe that I'll have a good day tomorrow and I'm still maintaining the good swing that I had when I won the two tournaments this year.  I'm looking forward to tomorrow. 

 Q.  In Korea which of the four majors do people follow the most closely? 
 K.J. CHOI:  I think it's the British Open and The Masters.  They're the most televised in Korea. 

 Q.  Which is the most important to you, personally? 
 K.J. CHOI:  Personally I think the British Open because it has so much history and tradition, so I really would like to win the British Open some day. 

 Q.  Kind of a two part question, having played alongside Sergio today, how catchable is he?  Secondly, you've won tournaments wire to wire before, and I wonder if you could talk about the pressure that comes with trying to do that and how much of a pressure do you feel it will be for him to finish out the tournament having led each day? 
 K.J. CHOI:  Having played with Sergio today, he really had a good game today.  He was in very good form.  His swing was very compact.  He had a good rhythm.  He was making a lot of good shots out there.  He really played well.  And plus he had a good fan support. 
 I think this week his condition is very good, so I'm anticipating that he'll finish out pretty well.  But you still have a lot of players trying to catch him.  You never know.  We still have another day to go.  But Sergio is playing well this week. 

 Q.  You said that the weather affected you, that you lost your rhythm out there when it got too cold.  How can you counteract tomorrow possibly another rainy, cold day?  How do you go into the final round thinking about that? 
 K.J. CHOI:  I think if the weather stays at same as today, I can't anticipate how it's going to be.  Yesterday and today was a lot different weather-wise.  Today the greens were very slow and heavy, I kind of lost a feel for it.  But now that I've gone through the day knowing how the greens are, how it's going to be tomorrow, I think if I can just gain speed on my putts then I won't have any problems. 
 STEWART McDOUGALL:  Thank you very much. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT