AT&T NATIONAL
July 7, 2007
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   NELSON SILVERIO:  K.J., thanks for coming in and spending a couple of minutes with us.  How about a quick assessment of your round? 
 K.J. CHOI:  I started the round, the greens were very hard.  So it really confused me with when I was making -- with regards to club selection. 
 Putting was really difficult today.  It was very hard to grasp the speed of the greens.  And the front nine -- therefore, it made the front nine very difficult.  But luckily on the back nine, I was able to come back nicely on the last three holes and pretty much finished out pretty good. 

 Q.  This is kind of a bizarre question, but can you talk about your relationship with your caddie, Andy Prodger? 
 K.J. CHOI:  Starting with Andy back in 2003 at the Linde German Masters.  That's when I first met him; won that tournament, the first tournament we met.  Then I hired him as my caddie full-time beginning at the Masters in 2004. 
 I think we just gel very well together.  I've used a lot of caddies before, but I think Andy really knows my style of game.  He's really accurate.  He knows my distance very well.  He just knows me inside out very well.  So I think we make a good team together. 

 Q.  Do you have any communication issues? 
 K.J. CHOI:  No.  That's good.  (Laughter). 

 Q.  You seem to be one of the most color-coordinated golfers out there.  Everything is yellow and black, the clubs, your bag, the outfit; those are your favorite colors or how did this come about? 
 K.J. CHOI:  Well, I basically like black, the color black.  I think that color fits me very well.  I like black because black tend to absorb -- it's a color that absorbs light.  Kind of like me, it absorbs my emotions, the way that I feel when I'm out there on the golf course. 
 Nike fits me very well with the colors, the different types of colors.  I like contrasty colors, dark and also very bright colors, because it gives me -- I'm able to show the different parts of my character. 
 It feels new to have different colors all the time and I think the colors go well with my bag. 

 Q.  Everybody's talked about the galleries that Tiger gets out here.  But it seems like the Korean American community has really come out to support you.  How much does that mean to you to have such an outpouring of support from them? 
 K.J. CHOI:  I think there's a lot of people that are coming out, a lot of the Korean community are coming out, because there has never been a Korean golfer on the PGA TOUR.  They didn't have -- there wasn't a player that they could come out and root for on a weekly basis. 
 But with me being here and other fellow Korean players coming over, they are beginning to see the fun of it by supporting the golfers that they like.  They feel what it's like to be out here to supporting the players they like, and I think they feel a sense of pride to have someone of their same nationality playing on the PGA TOUR.  And I think overall, it contributes to the development of the game of golf. 
 You know, Washington, D.C., I'm told there's like 250,000 Koreans living here.  It's probably like the third largest Korean community in the U.S.  To have them support me just gives me a lot of strength ask confidence. 
 NELSON SILVERIO:  Thank you, K.J 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT