AT&T NATIONAL
July 6, 2007
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   NELSON SILVERIO:  K.J., thanks for spending a couple of minutes with us again.  Another great round today.  How would you compare the course between yesterday and today?   
 K.J. CHOI:  The course wasn't that different compared to yesterday.  I think maybe it rained a little bit overnight so the greens felt a little bit softer.  Today it was a little bit more windy, so it made my shots a little bit more difficult, but overall, it was a pretty good day.   
  
  Q.  The greens aren't drying out at all?   
 K.J. CHOI:  It's in pretty good condition right now, but I think it's going to get harder eventually over the weekend.   
  
  Q.  What were your emotions like on the birdie putt on 16, the ball swirled around the cup right there, just talk about what you saw and what you felt when you went in.   
 K.J. CHOI:  Yeah, I actually thought it was going to come out, but when I saw it fall in I was momentarily shocked a little bit.   
 But I hope to see more putts fall in like that over the weekend.   
  
  Q.  Both times you went to minus eight, you gave one back on the next hole, did you have a problem with some consistency out there; was it just kind of bad breaks following the birdies?   
 K.J. CHOI:  On the 10th hole, I felt like after I shot -- I thought maybe 3-iron was the right club but I hit rescue and flew over the green and that's what caused the bogey.   
 On 17, the wind was left-to-right.  I hit my 3-wood very strong fade, but it actually went dead straight.  So that's what caused the bogey.  But I think those two holes were -- I learned a lot from it today and I think it's going to help me plan for the weekend, my strategy on the weekend.   
  
  Q.  You won Jack's tournament earlier in the year; would it be a bigger accomplishment or as big an accomplishment to win Tiger's tournament?   
 K.J. CHOI:  Yeah, I think if I win this tournament, it's going to be very meaningful to another level.  Jack's tournament was very meaningful, but this one is going to be very meaningful, too.   
 But I don't want to talk about, it's too early to say whether I'm going to win or not.  I just think it's very important for me to stay focused, try my best, hole-by-hole, day-by-day and not to get too ahead of myself.  I think I don't want to deviate from anything.  I just want to keep my mind-set where I am right now.   
  
  Q.  Did the course play any differently today than yesterday?   
 K.J. CHOI:  I think today the pin positions were a lot more difficult on the back nine than yesterday.   
  
  Q.  How about the greens and the fairways?   
 K.J. CHOI:  Fantastic!   
  
  Q.  What do you attribute your form of late to?   
 K.J. CHOI:  Well, twofold.  First of all, my swing's -- I've been going through a swing change with my coach.  I think the results are showing.   
 And secondly, I now have a shot where I can pull out of my pocket under pressure situations.  There's a shot, the fade shot, I feel very confident about my fade shots.  I think in any given situation, I'm able to hit that shot, and that's definitely a confidence-booster for me.   
 NELSON SILVERIO:  Thank you.    
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT