AT&T NATIONAL
July 5, 2007
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   NELSON SILVERIO:  K.J., 4-under today.  Why don't you talk about your round. 
 K.J. CHOI:  I started out slow today, but I finished today with six birdies, two bogeys.  Considering that this was my first time being here at this golf course, I tried to play very carefully, hole-by-hole, and I think that approach ended up working out. 

 Q.  What did the victory at Jack Nicklaus's tournament, what has that done for your confidence, and what's been the reaction in Korea and here since you've won the Memorial? 
 K.J. CHOI:  Yeah, I felt like all of the fans who supported me, they definitely were excited to see me win at Memorial.  And on a personal level, and I guess in Korea as well, it had a lot of meaning to win Jack's tournament, which is such a big event as it is.  It had a lot of historical meaning to Korea, and the win really boosted up my confidence. 
 I think this week, I will take that confidence and take the same approach as I did back at the Memorial and just give it my best. 

 Q.  With that in mind, how much would it win to mean Tiger's first tournament; how would you compare the two achievements? 
 K.J. CHOI:  You know, I think it's very important not to get overly excited about anything.  I think it's very important just to keep myself really calm as I've done, and just try to stay focused. 
 You know, if there's any pressure on me that I have to play well, then, you know, it's really not going to work.  So all I can do is just try my best, and just not be overly confident; just watch my pace and I think I'll have a good week if I just stick to that plan. 

 Q.  At the Memorial, you talked about hitting the fade; does that work here, as well? 
 K.J. CHOI:  Yeah.  (Laughter). 

 Q.  Are the courses similar at all, the design? 
 K.J. CHOI:  Yeah, I felt like just when I was back in Houston, just thinking about how I'm going to approach this golf course, I felt like I had to hit a lot of fades there. 
 And just coming over here, I think you really have to hit it on the right side to be able to have a chance to get your scores low. 
 NELSON SILVERIO:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT