SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 11, 2007
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
 K.J. CHOI:  Yeah, I think last year, after six weeks off, I saved energy, getting more workouts, I feel better and the swing feels good.  Just one thing is the putting really is very tough.  And this week, today, yesterday, we played and better than Maui, less windy.   
 Today, three bogeys and playing in the Sony Open, the first time 6-under par, so I'm happy with today.   
  
 K.J. CHOI:  The best shot a couple years ago, No. 2 and No. 4 and so today passing No. 4 at a couple under par on the front nine, 2- or 3-under today seemed to be a very good number.   
 So I try my best at every hole, but turning at the ninth hole, the green looks fast and you hit it and spun four or five feet and missed the putt twice.  Couldn't save par on No. 8 and then 9 is birdie today.    
  
  Q.  What did you do on 9, was that easy to read because of the wind?   
 K.J. CHOI:  No, No. 8, right shot 25-yard slice and good recovery shot.  Same thing, last nine holes on the right side, deep bunker and the same shot, it's a very tough hole.   
 In my mind, left-to-right wind it's a little low tee, and I don't know if I hit it down the middle, 235 yards, 5-wood.  Usually 5-wood, five yard in the left is a draw and today left-to-right wind, and still, it's straight down the middle and on the green, 60 feet and 2-putt.   
  
  Q.  Does your driver still sound funny when you tee it low?   
 K.J. CHOI:  Either way, low, high, same loud.  (Laughter).   
  
  Q.  Did you feel coming in the last couple of tournaments that you were going to play this well?   
 K.J. CHOI:  Yeah, I played first year, 2000, 2001, top of the swing was a little cut shot.  And in the left-to-right wind, the left-to-right holes were bad shots.   
 So my swing was from a long time ago and now it's different.  I live in the Houston area and it's windy and so every time the direction changes, the wind left-to-right and then five degrees, ten degrees, 15 degrees different area and you hit the ball and see what happens with the ball shape.  I've played many shots there, and last week with the wind you saw how much it moved the ball and how much you can draw and fade.   
 This week it's more comfortable.  It's early this year, and every time, every good player wants a good finish in first event in the early year, and then a little rest and get ready for a long year.   
 I think two weeks of playing now, I'll try and continue good play, so hopefully I'll have a good tournament this week.   
  
  Q.  I saw you in the first round last week at Kapalua and then you kind of fell back a little.  What happened in those two middle rounds?   
 K.J. CHOI:  Last week in the second rounds, I don't know, my body is a little different in the morning.  And a couple shots, draw and a fade, so I don't know.  This week, the ball is going better than last week, so a little more pray tonight and then hopefully more quiet in the morning.   
  
  Q.  What are you going to do the first part of the season?  How much will you play and where?   
 K.J. CHOI:  Two weeks play and two weeks off, and continue match play.  I play next at the FBR.  This year -- one week off and then three weeks of play and then one week off and then three weeks of play.  The family, my baby is three years old, she is wondering, where is he going, my dad.  So the baby, she doesn't understand.  Last year and this year is about resting at home and getting more time and experience at home.   
  
  Q.  How much do you go to Asia to play?   
 K.J. CHOI:  I don't know, this year, after FedExCup, I'm not in the Presidents Cup right now, but after the Presidents Cup, I'll go to whatever, Korea, Hong Kong.   
  
  Q.  Is it important for you to play, especially in Korea or Asia?   
 K.J. CHOI:  This year it's very important.  September, it's a very early finish and strong finish this year, I'll stay in the United States and the US PGA TOUR.   
  
  Q.  Just for your heritage, is it important for you to go back at least once a year?   
 K.J. CHOI:  Some tournaments are very important.  You know, K.J. comes, the sponsors are happier.  But this year, it's scheduling late in September or October.   
  
  Q.  So not until after FedExCup?   
 K.J. CHOI:  Right.   
  
  Q.  Do you understand the FedExCup?   
 K.J. CHOI:  Not under pressure but (laughter) there's some Money List and some points.  In the points system in the 144 players in the last four tournaments and then everybody has a good chance in four tournaments, so good field and THE TOUR Championship.  Yes, I like it.   
  
  Q.  Play good, do well.   
 K.J. CHOI:  Yeah.  (Laughter).   
  
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT