THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 24, 2006
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K.J. CHOI:  Today's start, the putter was working slow today.  I had very good patience on nine holes.  Starting No. 10 with a birdie and 15 and 16, and finishing today.

I don't know the tournament is a lot different in conditions, and it's windy and different.  It's very tough today.  I'm happy at 6 under.
Q.  Do you feel like that was a pretty good move you made today, considering how tough it was?
K.J. CHOI:  Today in a couple of holes with the wind blowing, it's catching some in the tree.  Today my focus in driving and the second shot, is driving in the fairway, keeping it in was very good today.
Q.  What was the difference playing yesterday afternoon than this morning?
K.J. CHOI:  Very similar yesterday to today.  I play yesterday afternoon the wind blowing the same directions, and today in the early morning it's not windy too much, but it's very patient every hole and I'm trying, good score.  And the tournament six under for two days, very happy round.
Q.  How confident do you feel in your game right now?
K.J. CHOI:  My alignment and putting, three or four years, and the different direction, my eyes on the right side, and good reading, set up sometimes on the left and then adjust it.  And it's a little bit in working, but in the tournaments it's not working.  Today 20 feet, 25 feet, many times I had a chance, and today not make it.  It's more practice, and more patient.
Q.  Your eyes are saying go to the right?
K.J. CHOI:  Yeah, today many times it's a good read and after that and I hit it, many times it's short.  And short on the green and the right side and the left side is many confusing, so more practice now.
Q.  How do you make that adjustment?
K.J. CHOI:  My put is 20 feet, 25 feet it's more confidence in the tournament.  It's a good tournament.
Q.  Did you come here this week feeling like your game was ready to
K.J. CHOI:  My game last week and starting so far is very good and solid tee shot and the second shot.  And so far it's good.  But the putting is more better than last week.  After two rounds it's my best round.
Q.  Putting seems to be the thing for you.  That's the thing that frustrates you most?
K.J. CHOI:  I don't know why some in tournament, and some in the right hand side and hit the ball and sometimes solid and long way.  And then sometimes exactly same line and it's short, it's a little confusing.  More putting confidence in tournament.
Q.  It really doesn't matter how well you know this golf course, it never plays like this except for this week?
K.J. CHOI:  Yes.  My game is every hole and the patience.  Last hole, bad shot, and the next hole try, birdie try.  And today three bogey and very good round.  And yesterday with just one bogey.  It's my time in the game so far two days, good tournament this week.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT