JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
February 10, 2006
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  We have K.J. Choi with a 66, nice rounds there with six birdies and no bogeys, you must be feeling good.
K.J. CHOI:  I did real good with my putting and my iron game.  Just hope that I can keep that going for the third and fourth round.
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  What was has been the key to the last two round, K.J.?  And your good score so far?
K.J. CHOI:  As far as my approach to the game, I've been going hole by hole.  I've been feeling good with my putter and I haven't missed many shots and just playing good and making birdies.
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Were the conditions a little bit harder with the weather getting warm and the greens firming up?
K.J. CHOI:  As far as the weather, it's been really good and comfortable for me.  It's been really comfortable for me, and I've been able to put up two really good scores and hope to continue on.
Q.  You used to practice in Australia previously?
K.J. CHOI:  I used to practice in Sydney from 1996 to 1999 in Penrith Golf Club. I was introduced to the club by a member who was Korean and I was able to practice there without any distractions and I was able to concentrate on my game.
Q.  How many weeks did you practice?
K.J. CHOI:  Every day.  I turned pro in 1993 on the Asian Tour and played in Asia and in between events, I would be in Sydney. Sometimes during winter in Korea, I would be in Sydney as well to practice.
Q.  Did you stay with your friend?
K.J. CHOI:  Yeah.
Q.  Have you played here at the Vines previously?
K.J. CHOI:  The last time I played here as the Heineken Classic in 1999.  That's at Victoria Country Club and I came to the Vines. The front nine here is different but I have good memories.
Q.  Did anyone give you any coaching?
K.J. CHOI:  No, myself.
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  K.J., you could be the first Asian winner of the Johnnie Walker Classic; you must be looking forward to the weekend.
K.J. CHOI:  The end result is more important to me.  It's still in progress right now. If I have a chance to win, I'll be most honored and to be in that position.
Q.  Did you see the Korean 16-year-old girl win in Australia last week? What did you think of that performance?
K.J. CHOI:  It was delightful to see a fellow countryman win.  It was very exciting to see a Korean win. The girls are training harder and they are practicing better. Their physical condition is getting better.
Q.  The only bogey you looked like taking was on the fifth hole. You caught the trees off the tee, what did you try to do with the second shot?
K.J. CHOI:  Yeah, the water, I could not see and today, first time I'm seeing the water.  And my feeling was very comfortable with the approach shot, because three feet in front is a big tree. The shot hit the creek and I tried to hit a punch shot and it didn't work. But I had a nice lie over there, but I chipped up and one putt. I didn't see the big tree there.  I was focusing only on the middle of the tree, because if you're too far down the middle of the fairway is a big tree, I can't see the pin. I remember on the right side you hit the ball, with a 4 iron and then it goes in the right side, and then on the right, the big tree is there and it hit the tree and it dropped down. Tomorrow I'll go more left. (laughter)
Q.  How is your form coming into this week?
K.J. CHOI:  I played for two weeks, but my putting is very bad. I didn't have very good control with the speed. I live in Houston. On the way to Perth, I was thinking the greens are very fast greens in Australia.

I usually like fast greens like in Augusta National, Masters, I always do well. You need to hit softer and the ball will roll, which I feel more comfortable with. Every day it's faster the greens and feel more comfortable, hope to make some putts and birdies.



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT