CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 2, 2005
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  KJ, started off the day with four birdies; kind of never left it in doubt you were going to run away with this today.  Talk about the day.
K.J. CHOI:  This morning when I got to the course, I was putting on the green, noticed that it was slow, it was a little bit bumpy.  I didn't get a real good feel for it.

However, when he got out to the course, hit his ball on to the first green, it looked very good.  The speed was good.  He felt very comfortable.  Then he started making some birdies.
TODD BUDNICK:  KJ, you led the tournament in driving accuracy and in putting   two things that go a long way to winning out here.  Talk a little about that, please.
K.J. CHOI:  As far as my irons this week, I actually managed to cut it down just about a quarter inch, which actually increased the accuracy of my shots.  I had to give up a little bit of distance.  Accuracy for distance, it was really worth it.

As far as putting, literally 10 minutes before I went out for my first round, this feel came back to me like in 2002 when I had two victories.  That same feeling came back to me.  I was able to carry that throughout the tournament.
TODD BUDNICK:  26 birdies this week.  One off your personal best, one off the tournament record here at Forest Oaks.  Tell us how much fun you had pouring in those 26 birdies out there.
K.J. CHOI:  As far as the birdie counts this week, what bothered me a little was the green speed.  As far as, you know, putting in the strokes, I am going to try a little bit harder next time.  I gave it my best out here as far as trying to make those birdies, but maybe next time I'll get it.
TODD BUDNICK:  You played here five times.  You missed the cut the first time, have made top tens in your last four.  You obviously like this place.
K.J. CHOI:  My first year, it was real difficult   not just as far as playing, but getting to the course, getting to the hotel.  That was difficult as well.  Coming back through Q School in 2001, I got a boost of confidence.  Came back to Greensboro.  Everything started clicking:  the fans, the Korean church here, the environment.  Everything did well.  Ever since then I've been producing top tens here at Greensboro.
TODD BUDNICK:  We'll open it up to questions.
Q.  How hard of a shot out of the bunker on 12 was that?  Do you think that was maybe the turning point today?
K.J. CHOI:  On that hole, I took a 5 iron.  I thought I hit it perfect.  Must have been the wind that stopped it or whatnot.  Ended up laying in the bunker.  I thought, you know, let's just make a par here.  It was really close.  He just opened the face and just gave it all he can.  It actually spun a little, rolled right into the hole.  It was a great shot.
Q.  How important was it today to start off with four birdies on the first four holes instead of later on, just to put some pressure on to the rest of the field?
K.J. CHOI:  As far as starting off early or late, he really focused on his game.  Instead of worrying about anything else, he was just worried about    not worried, but just focusing on his game.  In Korea, in all the times, ever since the last    any time he's in the last group, he's won it except once.  He's really focusing on his game, not whether he starts out with birdies or starts out with birdies late.
Q.  Ever since June, the year has kind of not been so good for you.  Did you sense this coming?  Why have you been struggling the last couple months?
K.J. CHOI:  He believes that a major factor was the weather.  I think that during June it was really hot.  I mean, especially the PGA Championship, it was extremely hot.  He feels real comfortable as far as playing the rain or a little bit cool weather.  I think during Greensboro, that type of weather is just perfect to how I feel, where I'm comfortable swinging, just a positive feel.
Q.  A lot of your compatriots on the LPGA Tour have had a lot of success.  Do you feel any competition with them or is there a friendly rivalry?  Does he even know how much success they've had?
K.J. CHOI:  As far as competition, there has been none on the PGA for him.  My job here is to open the gateway I guess for more competition to come in.  My standards are what's been set for these new guys to come in.
Q.  How big a deal is it back in Korea when you win a tournament?  Are you front page news?  Where in the paper are you going to be tomorrow?
K.J. CHOI:  As far as PGA TOUR, you know, winning on the PGA TOUR, everyone's watching in the world.  You can imagine all over the front page in Korea.
Q.  Can you talk a little about, you say how you feel comfortable out here with the course and the fans.  I know the First Presbyterian Church you go to almost every year here, you seem to get a good following.  What does that mean for you comfort wise?
K.J. CHOI:  I went to church this morning and attended service at 9:30 at the First Presbyterian Korean Church.  Everybody who ended service ended up coming out and supporting me.

They feel how I feel as far as wanting to win and wanting to play well.  It feels so great to have such a strong backing when you're playing in a tournament so great.
Q.  Did you say anything to D.J. after the round?  Have you been there before in those final rounds, to have a meltdown like he did?
K.J. CHOI:  As far as speaking and conversing with D.J., I did a little bit on the fourth hole when he was having a tough time.  I asked him where he was from, whatnot.  But my style of golf is where I just keep quiet, focus on my game.  I think if I also keep quiet, I might not be bothering him.

As far as on the 18th green, I just told him congratulations, and that was it.
TODD BUDNICK:  Just go through the card, KJ.  Birdies on your first four.  Start there.
K.J. CHOI:  (In English.)  1st hole, 16 feet.
TODD BUDNICK:  What did you hit in there?
K.J. CHOI:  (In English.)  Sand wedge, 116 yards.
TODD BUDNICK:  2?
K.J. CHOI:  (In English.)  270 yard, down in the middle of the green, 2 putt.  Maybe 20 feet.
TODD BUDNICK:  3.
K.J. CHOI:  (In English.)  3 wood, second shot 157 yard, 8 iron, maybe seven feet.
TODD BUDNICK:  The par 3?
K.J. CHOI:  (In English.)  192 yards with a 5 iron, four feet, birdie.
TODD BUDNICK:  Bogey on 5.
K.J. CHOI:  (In English.)  3 wood, 82 yards with the sand wedge, maybe 20 feet, 3 putt.
TODD BUDNICK:  6?
K.J. CHOI:  (In English.)  No. 6, hit driver, second shot 187 yards, sorry.  162 yards, 8 iron.  10 feet, maybe 12 feet.
TODD BUDNICK:  9?
K.J. CHOI:  (In English.)  9, hit a driver.  Third shot is 92 yards, lob wedge, maybe nine feet downhill.
TODD BUDNICK:  10.
K.J. CHOI:  (In English.)  No. 10, hit it driver.  Second shot 154 yard, 8 iron, over the green, maybe 30 feet.  2 putt.
TODD BUDNICK:  12.
K.J. CHOI:  (In English.)  No. 12, 192 yards, 5 iron, into the bunker.  20 feet in the bunker shot, into the hole.
TODD BUDNICK:  13.
K.J. CHOI:  (In English.)  13, hit it 3 wood, second shot 5 wood, greenside bunker, 25 feet, bunker shot three feet, birdie.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, KJ.
K.J. CHOI:  (In English.)  Thank you very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT