CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 1, 2005
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  The 54 hole leaders, KJ Choi, D.J. Trahan, are both the winners the Crestor Charity Challenge.  Each of them will get $25,000 to give to a healthcare charity of their choice.  In addition, the Victory Junction Gang Camp will receive $50,000 from the Chrysler Classic of Greensboro and Crestor.

Congratulations, KJ.
K.J. CHOI:  (In English)  Thank you very much.

JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Good round today, a solid round of 67, no bogeys.  Why don't you just talk about the day.
K.J. CHOI:  Today, when I was at the range, started hitting some balls, I noticed I had a couple of hook shots coming out of my swing.  I figured that I better play safe and start out well.

I attacked the par 5s.  First one wasn't that easy.  I had a push shot.  I had a good save on No. 10 where I also pushed that shot, as well.  Then on No. 14.  Saved for two pars, which was real big on the game.  Managed to make a couple birdies, finished off strong.

JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Questions, please.
Q.  Why has your final round scoring average been so sub par?  You've struggled in final rounds.
K.J. CHOI:  As far as my problems the last round, it's always been my putting.  This week, his good friend Charlie gave him a little tip before the start of the round.  You know, it's been working great for him.  You know, he used to be real confused with the short putts, but now with the tip, he's been practicing it and is able to manage to shoot the subpar rounds.
Q.  What was the tip?
K.J. CHOI:  (Laughter).

Well, prior to this week, he was very wristy with the putts, short putts.  You got the left and right that you're missing off.  So what he's been able to do is focus on keeping that wrist, that form throughout, and that will create just a positive, repetitive swing instead of where he gets handsy.
Q.  What is it going to take tomorrow?  Got a score in mind?
K.J. CHOI:  As far as my thought process, I don't really think about tomorrow.  More I think about what happened today, what were my faults, some of the shots that came out.  I'll go practice some of that, then go and have a good rest for tomorrow.
Q.  Can you talk about your year in general.  Hasn't been one of your better ones.  Can you explain why?  Do you see yourself coming out of that, whatever that funk was?
K.J. CHOI:  As far as my, you know, slump here, it's been not about how I felt on the course or the equipment or anything of that nature, it was more focused on my putting.  As far as how he feels, it's been a great year.  But the score wasn't there due to the putting.

I've been working on my putting now.  Should be able to get out of that slump.
Q.  If you wins tomorrow, are you going to thank Charlie?
K.J. CHOI:  I'll buy him dinner every night (smiling).
Q.  Are you surprised by Saturday how slow the greens still seem to be?
K.J. CHOI:  I think the greens are fast going downhill, then the greens are hard.  By tomorrow it should dry up as long as we don't get any rain.  It should be real difficult tomorrow.

JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT