CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
September 30, 2005
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  We welcome KJ Choi, 11 under, 133, through two rounds of the 2005 Chrysler Classic of Greensboro.  KJ, a much colder morning today.  Talk about the weather conditions first.
K.J. CHOI:  This morning, it was cold.  His body felt a little bit heavier.  But he mainly was focusing on one hole at a time, you know, trying to extend his score each hole by hole.  There was some wind, but after nine holes, it seemed to die down a little, and he managed play well.
TODD BUDNICK:  It did take you a little while to get going.  A lot of pars.  One birdie on the front.  Once you warmed up, three birdies on the back.
K.J. CHOI:  As far as, you know, practicing after the round yesterday, he was working on his shots.  This morning, like you said, it was cold.  His body felt heavier.  He noticed his shots were going a little bit towards the right so he started focusing on making pars, making that a priority.

The Back 9 was a little bit more difficult.  Therefore, he had a lot more pars in the Front 9.  The second nine, he was able to attack the pins.
TODD BUDNICK:  Questions.
Q.  You saw your shots going
K.J. CHOI:  A little to the right.
Q.  On the range?
K.J. CHOI:  Actual Back 9.
Q.  Anything to try and correct that?
K.J. CHOI:  As far as trying to fix that problem, he would have to open his stance just slightly to actually accommodate that fade shot.  Sometimes when he really tried to hit it hard, it pulled to the left.

But today that's basically what he was working on as far as trying to fix the problem.
Q.  What kind of play are you going to take tomorrow, approach?  Are you going to be aggressive, being one shot down, or try to stay where you are at?
K.J. CHOI:  As far as tomorrow, his body will be feeling better.  His irons are playing great right now, so he's actually going to be attacking the third round with aggressiveness.
Q.  When you said your body was heavy this morning, was it just because of the morning time?  Is there actually a physical ailment?
K.J. CHOI:  Nothing pertaining to an ailment.  It's just that it's crisp, it's colder than any other tournaments we've been playing at 7 or 8 in the morning.  It's nothing; it's just that it was cold.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT