U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2005
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How would you characterize the round, K.J.?  How did you play?
K.J. CHOI:  Today's focus is tee shot and practice on the range in the morning, concentrations, and then my swing and the tempo and the tee shot very important because the greens are very tough and the rough is a tough shot.  But down the middle of the fairway is very important.

And then today, maybe three times miss, and yesterday seven, eight times miss, and today very happy round.
Q.  (Inaudible).
K.J. CHOI:  Oh, yeah.  Similar yesterday, 145 yards, and then I think against the wind a 9 iron, punch is all the greens.

And then today, 145 yard and the pin left and then pitching it, pitch green in the middle and it stop quick and maybe 20 feet and then make a birdie.  It's different.
Q.  How different were the greens yesterday to today?
K.J. CHOI:  Very similar.  Yesterday in the morning we played, some softer, some hard greens, and then sometimes in the heat, harder to hit the greens and it bounce over, and some holes it's quick stop.  Some a little bit, couple holes confusing today.  It's not much at all, and then greens are quick, and putting speed, terrain is my focus and tomorrow's round I try.
Q.  You're one of the very few players to be under par going into tomorrow.  Do you feel pretty good about your position?
K.J. CHOI:  Yeah, very good position.  I remember at Bethpage in New York in 2002, and after two rounds it's very good, and too much rain.  Some missed shot in the left very sticky, and then my power, just not too much, and then you can    (inaudible).

This week it's really come to before and two rounds early in the practice.

It's a very, very important tee shot and pin position any time in the middle of the greens so far.
Q.  What are your expectations for the weekend?
K.J. CHOI:  My game is cool down every day and every hole very strong and then hole by hole in the best round, best hole.

Many times after finishing 18 holes and then finishing, and then before sometimes in the nine hole, the best shot and the best score and then after 12, 13 holes, I don't like it.  Every hole it's patience.  Double bogey, triple, okay, sometimes par, okay, and then try again, try again.  Some tournaments very good finish, Top 10, Top 5.  Today is very important, and then tomorrow and after Saturday.  I play so far very    concentration is good, and good sleep and then relax and more practice and then the weekend is more good round.
Q.  What do you think it's going to take to win this?
K.J. CHOI:  I think 100 yard to 70 yard chip shot and 20 yard to 30 yard in the chipping.  Putting is okay.  On the greens, everybody good putting player.  But missed shots to chip out in 100 yards, sometimes the flier is not 100 yards is more than 50 yards, 60 yards, and then very good concentration.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT