BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 15, 2004
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








STEWART McDOUGALL:  Ladies and gentlemen, we have K.J. Choi, 3-under par, 68, joining us in the clubhouse.  K.J., that was a very nice start to The Open Championship.  Are you pleased with your 68 today?
K.J. CHOI:  I feel very good today, starting from the first hole.  Me and my caddy, Andy, we decided to take it very patiently today, and in the morning the weather was in my side.  It was very calm, so I think that helped me perform very well and I'm very happy because it's the first time I ever shot under par in the first round at the British Open.  So I feel very good today.
Q.  Last year you played a lot better in the British Open than you have in British Opens past.  I wonder what kind of learning curve you have and whether you feel like you've figured out how to handle the links-style situation?
K.J. CHOI:  Before, it was very hard for me to stop the ball on the green and whenever I played against the wind I always thought too much and I think that really made it more difficult for me.  But ever since -- recently I just felt -- I just thought to myself not to think too difficult, just be comfortable with myself.  And wherever I go, I have good fan support and little things like that help me feel more comfortable at tournaments and they have a big influence on my game.
Q.  You're talking about having a real patient approach today.  Today you have an eagle, a double bogey, a lot of birdies and bogeys.  So I'm wondering how much of the patience that you're talking about, a club selection, shot selection, how much is just a mental thing about not getting up and getting too high or too low with shots.?
K.J. CHOI:  When I talk about patience, I mean every hole -- every player faces a different situation on any given hole but that being patient, you have to overcome the difficulty of that hole, you can't take it with you -- you can't carry it on with you hole-by-hole.  You just have to let that end at that hole.  So I think in that aspect I've learned to become very patient with myself, because if you let it get away, if you let it bother you mentally, a double bogey is going to continue on as a bogey and another bogey.  So I've taught myself to become more patient mentally and not get too down on myself about a double bogey or bogey.  I think that's an important part of being patient.
STEWART McDOUGALL:  Thank you very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT