CHRYSLER CHAMPIONSHIP
October 29, 2003
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, KJ, defending champion here at the Chrysler Championship.  KJ, you are having another strong year, your 29th on the money list and you finished in the Top-7 four of your last five events.  It would seem the fall is a good time for you to play golf.  Talk a little bit about being defending champion and playing so well these past few weeks. 

THE INTERPRETER:  Yes, my golf has been improving very much lately.  And I feel very confident coming in this week and this week coming over here, everybody has been very nice, you know, showing me their respect as the defending champion.  They have been giving me very kind words and motivation, so it's going to be a good week.

TODD BUDNICK:  KJ, is there anything that's happened to you these last few weeks to make your game go to where it is right now?

THE INTERPRETER:  Every player goes through different process of change, every player is different.  For me, the moment I was picked as Captain's choice for the Presidents Cup, that really gave me a lot of confidence mentally and it just brought, you know, a different mindset for me.  And since then I've really tried in my own way to go through a change of process.  A change; not a big change, but little by little; and I think that has affected my game, influenced my game a lot.  That gave me a lot of confidence and it has enabled me to play consistently well because it made me feel mentally very comfortable and that translated into a better swing and better performance. 


Q.  Is this a week where more than other weeks you might tend to watch the leader boards more because of your position, number 29 going into the TOUR Championship, aware of who is right behind you, who is ahead of you, that kind of thing?

THE INTERPRETER:  No, not really.  I think it's important just to play my own game, just maintain my own rhythm and not think about what others are doing because I can't really help, and if I try my best and despite that other players are going to perform better than me, I can't help that.  So I'm not going to worry about my score, I'm just going to try my best and I think that's the approach that I have to take.  That's probably the responsibility of all of the players is to try their best.


Q.  Do you still live in Houston?

K.J. CHOI:  Yes.


Q.  Have you played Champions?

K.J. CHOI:  Yes.


Q.  A lot?

K.J. CHOI:  Yes.


Q.  You like it?

K.J. CHOI:  Yes.


Q.  Where do you play in Houston? Do you have a club that you belong to, are attached to?

K.J. CHOI:  TOUR championship course.  No, I am playing Fish creek.

TODD BUDNICK: 


Q.  KJ, the President's Cup selection, did you have an indication that you were going to be picked or was it a total surprise or what were your hopes there?

THE INTERPRETER:  Yes, in a way when it was announced I was 11th on the list and I mean I felt pretty good that, you know, I mean I had a lot of hope that I would make it.  But when I actually got the call that really, you know, another perspective and it just felt really good and at the same time I kind of felt a little bit of pressure because you know, I wanted to really perform well for The International team.  But it was a very good feeling.


Q.  Ian Baker Finch or Gary Player?

K.J. CHOI:  Ian Baker Finch.


Q.  Did you find in 2000 when it was played in Virginia, did you watch the matches on television?

THE INTERPRETER:  Yes, he did.


Q.  Did you find yourself pulling for The International team even though you had played hadn't played in a President's Cup at that time?

THE INTERPRETER:  Yes, naturally. 


Q.  Does he think The International team would be favored to win because they're playing in South Africa or does that matter?

THE INTERPRETER:  No, I don't think it's going to make a big difference.  Everybody is going to be playing at the same course and everybody has their own style of courses that they play.  So I think they all have an equal chance.


Q.  Did you play on the Japanese Tour?

K.J. CHOI:  Yes.


Q.  He has played Japanese Match Play?

K.J. CHOI:  Yes.

THE INTERPRETER:  Yes.


Q.  Who does he think would be a good partner for you in an alternate shot or best ball or do you think there is anyone that you think you might be paired with?

THE INTERPRETER:  Every player has their own advantage and, you know, merits.  But I'm thinking maybe Mike Weir would be a good partner for me.  I haven't really played with him.  I mean we haven't really practiced together or anything like that.  But just the mental side and ball striking I think that is lot of similarities between the two of us.  So you know  --

Q.  He is left-handed.  

(Laughter)

            Q.   Could you give us your reaction to Se Ri Pak showing at Korea at the men's event; have you talked to anyone who played or anyone back home for the reaction of that.

THE INTERPRETER:  No, he really hasn't spoken to anyone in Korea about it.  I don't want to go into details about it but just, you know, I'm thinking maybe the course was a little bit short.  But other than that, I don't want to say anything.


Q.  If you had to vote today who do you vote for PGA Player of the Year?

THE INTERPRETER:  Vijay Singh.


Q.  Because?

THE INTERPRETER:  Every player probably have their own reasons but I think the way that Vijay approaches the game, as you guys know, he worked very hard, he focuses. Mentally he is very strong.  I think that sets a good precedent for the young golfers, for the public, you know, trying your best and just focusing hard.  I think that's a good roll model. 


Q.  If Vijay spends the most time on the range, who spends the second most time on the range?

THE INTERPRETER:  All of the guys on the PGA TOUR they really practice hard but there was one time when me and Vijay, we were both out on the driving range and we kind of contested who would stay out on the range longer and he beat me by a little.


Q.  Five hours? (Laughter?

K.J. CHOI:  5 and 5, me 5. 

TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, KJ.

K.J. CHOI:  Thank you very much. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT