DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 30, 2003
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Thank you for joining us for a few minutes.  Great round today, 3-under par 68, 7-under par for the tournament.  You played yesterday in some tough conditions in the afternoon with the wind.  Why don't you compare today with yesterday's round in terms of the conditions?
K.J. CHOI:   Well, for today it was a little easier today compared to yesterday, but still it was very difficult to try to get myself in a good position for a second shot.  And particularly, the long putts, the lag putts, the distance control was very difficult to try to get used to it.  But overall, I tried to focus on those two things and have been able to successfully negotiate the course so far. 

Q.  How are course conditions from yesterday to today? 
K.J. CHOI:   Well, compared to yesterday, the greens were a little softer, and obviously, I played in the afternoon and there was very little wind this morning.  But yet it seems like the players were still very tentative, having some difficult time on the greens just putting-wise. 

Q.  How are the conditions of the greens, are they smooth? 
K.J. CHOI:   Some greens I was able to stop the ball very quickly.  But there were some greens that were not as receptive, releasing the ball.  So it was a little difficult to try to gauge what the condition was.  But overall it seems like today was better than yesterday. 

Q.  With the Presidents Cup, with your schedule, are you gearing up towards that big event? 
K.J. CHOI:   Well, right now there's a World Cup before the Presidents Cup, so that's one thing that I also have at the top of my mind.  But I don't think that schedule-wise it will be a problem getting myself prepared.  I feel pretty good.  And I like to do well in the big games, and I think I can do well, particularly those big games.  So I'm on the right track in terms of getting prepared. 

Q.  Can you talk about what it means to be on the Presidents Cup team and to play with all of the guys that you're going to be playing with over those days? 
K.J. CHOI:   Well, first of all, it gives me tremendous feeling to be selected for the Presidents Cup, and not only just for myself, but as a representative of all the Korean golfers.  To be selected to an international level, it is a tremendous honor. 
I think this will also give me a new incentive for me to do better, to try to get better, and be able to play amongst some of the best players on the International Team.  That really is an honor itself, and I'm going to try to do my best to not hurt the team and try to give my best part to try to win during the Presidents Cup. 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Thank you for joining us.  Play well this week.



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT