HP CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
May 1, 2003
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  We thank K.J. for joining us after a 7-under 65 today.  K.J., 18 seems to be a problem for you at this course, the last three times you've played 18 you've (inaudible)?
K.J. CHOI:  Yeah, (inaudible) bogeys and very, very (inaudible) because of the turnaround, and then last day on the 4-under starting the first day, but then today 7-under right now is okay.

Q.  7-under is very good.  You had nine birdies coming into that point.  Why don't you talk a little bit about that.
K.J. CHOI:  The course conditions were very good today, the greens were soft, and I like to play (inaudible) that's my shot, and a lot of the shots here require (inaudible) and my putting here was very good today.

Q.  Why do you think it plays so (inaudible)?
K.J. CHOI:  (Inaudible) the course conditions were very good today, and I learned a lot from the mistakes of the past, and I could apply that today in my game, and I've been working (inaudible) spin a lot, and with the greens so hard, (inaudible) spin on it and I played pretty well today.

Q. (Inaudible.)
K.J. CHOI:  Like I said earlier, I feel that everybody shot pretty well today because the course conditions were very, very good, and when you get PGA Tour players that are so good, everyone can score low when the conditions were so good like this.  The wind was blowing at a very moderate pace, so the conditions were very good for scoring today.

Q. (Inaudible.)
K.J. CHOI:  Usually when I make double bogey I just try to shake it off right away, and if you're playing too well, as a human, you kind of think something could go wrong here, what's going on?  So I feel like I gave my two shots away early, and I want to play well in the future.

Q.  Did you feel like you would shoot that today, a 62 maybe, if you birdied the last hole?
K.J. CHOI:  I didn't really have any thought of making birdies too much, I thought maybe finish with a par or maybe even a bogey.  I wasn't greedy of going for a birdie on 18, I didn't have any greed on.  




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT