RBC HERITAGE
April 18, 2014
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JOHN BUSH:   We'd like to welcome K.J. Choi into the interview room after a 4‑under par, 67.   He's currently 5‑under par here at the RBC Heritage through two rounds.   A great round out there today.   Could we just get some general comments.  
K.J. CHOI:   (In English)   I'm really happy in the tournament.   I think not many times I come here, but after Masters always I go home, three kids.   Last three or four years I'm changing:   After Masters I stop here, because golf course is very generous.   Making a good shot and keeping the iron play, and the good field and sometimes in the good play.  
I love this course.   Either way I play very well.   Yesterday, today, with wind blowing over 15, 20 per hours, I don't know how much the wind gets.   After hitting some missed shots today but very good.   
Little bit wind blowing.   We discuss on the water side very difficult hit it.   So yesterday, today I am playing, driving very wonderful.   And over 20 feet, many make it, yesterday and today.   Many missed putts inside five feet, the speed and side of the hill.   And the more practice inside the five feet.   More rest tomorrow and weekend, I'm trying the best that I play.   
Very good, happy, I enjoy this tournament.   
   
 Q.   Are you happy to have this round complete considering that the call is for rain this afternoon and rain tomorrow, not knowing what we're going to get on the weekend?  
K.J. CHOI:   (Through translator)   I knew that yesterday it was going to be tough out there today.   But I wish all the players good luck today and wish they have a good round.   
   
 Q.   Would you mind expanding, talking about more about the uniqueness of Harbour Town golf links, why you like it so much or why it's different than some of the other courses on Tour?  
K.J. CHOI:   This course, if you just hit it beneath the trees, it's a good course to play.   It has very small targets and this course is working well for me, because I like those situations.  
   
 Q.   Can you tell us about your birdies today?  
K.J. CHOI:   (In English)   Starting No. 2.   It was a chip‑in, six feet and a putt and I make it.  
And then No. 5 is third shot is 105 yards and a gap wedge is four feet and I make it, birdie.  
And then No. 8, second shot is 185 yards and a 5‑iron is 20 feet downhill and I make the putt.  
No. 9, I don't like it yesterday or today, so two bogeys.   Is anyway three‑putt.  
No. 11, birdie, is hitting ‑‑ driving is 167 yards in a breeze and chipping in to make it, birdie.   
And No. 13, hitting 5‑wood, 138 yards and a pitching wedge, four feet and make it, birdie.  
No. 15 third shot is a chip‑out and 139 yards, 8‑iron over the green, and putting then maybe four feet.   Missed putt; is a bogey.  
16, 128 yards and a gap wedge is 20 feet and uphill and I make it for birdie.   
JOHN BUSH:   K.J. recap your season for us up to this point, how well you've played.   
K.J. CHOI:   (Through translator)   This year I had second place.   I had some bad rounds, as well, but I always keep a positive mind.   A lot of the older PGA players, I'm learning a lot from those guys.   
JOHN BUSH:   K.J., great playing.   Thank you, appreciate it.   
K.J. CHOI:   Thank you very much.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT