MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2013
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You've got to feel good about your position going into tomorrow.   Only a few shots back.   Are you happy with where you stand?  
K.J. CHOI:   Yeah.   This course nobody knows.   But my patience is very comfortable.   Even more resting and hitting ball so well and I seem fortunate, I listened to my caddie to help me a lot.   
Sometimes these greens are very really different because the speed because of the brown color is, my eyes are brown and sometimes it's very hard to read and it's the opposite.   But I listened to my caddie in the green and how much the break and the left‑to‑right and the right‑to‑left and I'm very comfortable playing together today.   My balance is good.   
I make the low fade, the high fade I make it, it's so good today.   Putting makes it.   So no practicing, resting.   Very important.   And more energy you can have.   
   
 Q.   Seemed like you kind of got everything going your way shortly after the turn.   Where you birdied I think it was three out of four holes.   If you can, take me through those, what you did and what seemed to be working.   
K.J. CHOI:   Well, starting very difficult in first, second, third.   It looks easy, but the player and the starting four hole is very, very important.   My goal today is a bogey‑free after four, but two bogeys, one birdie.   It's a little disappointing, but I'm more cheered up than the last hole on the number nine and I make a par and it's number 10 and I make a birdie.   So sometimes in the short putt and miss and sometimes the long putt, I make it, so nobody knows.   I like to be in contention on play more patiently.   The course today is very difficult.   The wind is blowing so hard.   Even a couple putts today, they were very good.   1‑over today, you know.   So yeah.  
   
 Q.   Did the wind swirl a lot?  
K.J. CHOI:   Yeah.   Because in the tall tree and blocking the shadow and then quick change and the ball does stop long.   So very difficult.   The third shot on 15 was very difficult.   100 yards, it's easier, but it spins back water and then over and make the putt is very confusing the player.   Some players after hit it, a little bit not the least and the ball in the back way is spin back in the water.   And then make double bogey or triple, it's easier.   The water is not a chance.   The bunker there is more chances.   Sometimes very difficult.   So today so difficult and then that.  
   
 Q.   Are you pleased with where you stand after two rounds on a course that you have had success in the past?   Do you feel good about where you are and what you can do this weekend?  
K.J. CHOI:   Yeah, it's more easy make shot and shaping control okay.   It's more easy than my swing the five, six years ago, never drove, never high ball.   So can't do that.   So my swing is my style.   But my swing coach four years ago we tried to do a couple draw shot, high shot, but the swing momentum change.   This way, three years ago, I'm very good chance of winning.   And No. 2 course is okay.   The 3‑woods and the draw shot and make birdie easier.   But sometimes driver here and the draw and the left trees, the right side push it.   This course is something and No. 2, six or five years ago, No. 2 is an all the time the left, because in the try draw but through.   Or push it.   So today's a 3‑wood, low bullet ball and then second shot again low bullet ball in the bunker and make birdie.   You know, some in the clubhouse look at the swing and make it because it's some difficult, some easier.   So more humble play is a more better than other shot.   
   
 Q.   Did you have to learn that here at this play?   Did you learn to be more patient here?  
K.J. CHOI:   You know, it's every shot.   No, not easier today.   So many tension are making shot.   So I'm so happy.  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT