MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2013
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about the birdies you had on the par‑3s today.   How close you hit them in?
K.J. CHOI:   16? 

Q.   Well, No. 6?
K.J. CHOI:   6, I hit it six feet.   A 6‑iron I hit 186 yards, something like that. 
My best shot ever in the 11 times here.   I made it closer, birdie in the top side.   Bottom side, a couple birdies, but the top side and the first birdie, I birdied that.   So I birdied next hole 7 and then again birdie on 15. 
So this game is very patient, every day maybe one stroke or a couple strokes, but my game is more patient.   And the playing was very enjoyable.   Very good. 

Q.   Talk about the bogeys you had on 15 and 18. 
K.J. CHOI:   15, is, I'm a little hurting on my side and my side muscle was in pain months ago and it just hurt a lot and when the hip turned, the more it's hurting. 
So the last I just lost the energy and then the gusting windy and it was a quick change.   220 yards in the front and I hit a hybrid and then down in swale.   And then 225 in the carry, no problem.   And I have to hit and the wind switched and it went in the water. 
So, anyway, a good bogey and a good birdie on the 16th.   So even today. 

Q.   Are you happy with the way you're hitting the ball with your irons?
K.J. CHOI:   Today's pretty well and short iron play and still iron is very, very impressed.

Q.   Do you have family with you this week?
K.J. CHOI:   Oh, yeah, the whole family is here. 

Q.   What is it about this course that seems to suit your game so well?
K.J. CHOI:   This course is very important on the green and a high cut is very important.   Even when it's bouncing, five, 10 yards, you know, this course, and the space is only five yards and six yards and the landing area is five, six yards.   And the low, again, is a very difficult chip in the imagination. 
And then so many spectators are watching and sometimes I'm very nervous.   And then the pitching and the chipping is very difficult to control.   But this course is very important in the second shot with the high cut.   A big cut.   So I try every hole high cut for sure. 
And a couple shots that I missed on the left and the trouble on the first hole, the bogey.   But other hole is a very nice.

Q.   Overall, what did you think of your round today and where that puts you in position for tomorrow and the rest of the weekend?
K.J. CHOI:   I think that first shot and a couple under par is very important and positions are very enjoyable this week and then spectators are more supporting the Tournament.   I'm very, a couple holes are very windy, but today I really enjoyed it and people are lovely, so I keep going to practice.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT