RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2017
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Good, solid day.  Only one bogey.  Happy with the opening round.
K.J. CHOI: Oh, yeah.  I'm starting yesterday, thinking about it in the Pro-Am, 3-under par every day is very good.  Because my new swing, I've been working hard the last couple months and been very disappointed with some shots.
But No. 8, 190 shot, 6-iron, fantastic, the wind blowing and stopped it in the bunker.  Really happy with the round today.  Working on the putting and the line, and then my caddie, Chris, working together.
Q. There's a lot of discussion about having to do well on the par 5s here at Glen Abbey.  Is that the key to a low score, taking advantage of the three par 5s on the back nine?
K.J. CHOI: All par 5s you see, just the water side on the front and the left, right.  On the 16th the par 5 is no water, and left side in the bush.  But my game and the short irons, very good working, good putting.  So got some lay-ups.  This course you have to be very patient.  Some holes look easy but it's not easy this course.  The wind blowing is in the afternoon.  It's very difficult to control in the morning.  I'm so happy this course I'm doing good.
Q. Only one hiccup of the day to come into the clubhouse at 6-under.  What did you like best about your round out there?
K.J. CHOI: You know, I practice in the two round looking for very hard greens.  In the morning it's a little rain and it's more helping, leave it softer.  I think three more days is more hard greens.  Just any spot is very tight lies in three or four yards in the water side.  Everybody who has iron control and putting -- today is beautiful iron play, putting, everything good.  I'm so happy.  Last two months I've been disappointed with my game but I'm building up my body and my swing and everything, so I have more confidence.
Q. The putting today was spectacular.  You've played this event in the past -- there was a drought last year which made things firm and fast.  How did it play with the weather today?
K.J. CHOI: These greens are very similar to my country, Korea.  Today's reading is very good.  My caddie and I, Chris, we see how much to break and how much speed.  These greens are hard greens, more difficult second shot, so we're keeping iron play very well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT