THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2012
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  KJ CHOI:   Yeah, I try a couple under par or 3‑under par is very good today in the morning.   But I try best in saving, saving in the long putt making par, first ten holes.   Keep going on playing the patience.   After 12‑‑ 11th hole in the birdie‑‑ no, what hole‑‑ 13, yeah, 13 is a birdie.   And then after that left‑to‑right wind is I can't catch, push in the right in the bush and chip out and a bogey.   And then 15's bogey.
Very, last hole, unusual in the three days in the bunker.   So a little bit uphill on the left side of the bunker.   Tomorrow it's more aggressive and hit in the middle.
So far so good.   And the back nine is a little ‑‑ I try hard but very difficult.   More windy.   More control on the irons.   Very difficult today.

Q.   You say you found the front nine more tricky than the back?
KJ CHOI:   Well, the greens‑‑ yesterday in the downhill put in the hole.   Today is uphill to some hole and similar in the first round in the pin position and opposite there.   More hill, some speed.   Is more‑‑ back nine is more difficult than front nine.

Q.   So you say you played well early?
KJ CHOI:   Bunker‑‑ tee shot is very important to miss the bunker.   But greenside bunkers, I like it, and any short bunkers and the corner bunkers, no problem.   And the bunker playing really with very confidence.   And the sand is very, you know, smooth, and I hit very well. 
But tee shot on the bunker in the fairway always a headache.   And I chip out and 50 yards and 40 yards.   I said, Andy and I, after 15, so I enjoy.   Today I enjoy.   We go 16 is three inches and the birdie, I think, but very on the last hole and the bogey is disappointing today.

Q.   I guess that's one of those things, you've just got to enjoy it?
KJ CHOI:   You know, The Open is every year very surprise in the spectator and all ‑‑ and the people and then more in the humble and cheer up the player so more respecting everybody.   So I love it and I play very enjoy.   I follow everybody and the spectators, and it's many, many years watching me and then altogether both round. 
More relax, and The Open sometimes it not relaxed on the golf course.   Today is more relaxing, better than yesterday.
So the last day tomorrow.   I very aggressive with the hitting tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT