JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2012
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You walked out of the scoring trailer and the first thing you said to everyone was, Nice.   It was nice, wasn't it?
K.J. CHOI:   You know, it's bogey‑free on the tournament in the 18 hole.   Keep patient every hole.   This week in birdie, good patient and good crowd.   I love the people here. 
Course is fantastic shape in the morning.   More saving and greenside hit the putt.   It's a very good read.   This really first time Graham caddie for me, so very good helping in this course.

Q.   Yes.   Different caddie on the bag.   Andy is not with you this week.   Graham did a good job, didn't he? 
K.J. CHOI:   Yeah, Andy is stay home over there.   We meet next week.

Q.   Do you?   Yeah.
K.J. CHOI:   Couple irons trying and hit the green and then hit the ground is a little different feel.   This is many change and I hit the ball so great.   Today iron is great.   (Indiscernible.)

Q.   Yeah. Very different kind of golf courses this week to next week.   You were just fairways, greens, and could have made even more putts.   You made six have 'em?
K.J. CHOI:   Yeah, I'm practice a lot in home.   Every day (indiscernible) hours and some days (indiscernible) hours and the windy.   (Indiscernible.)   I'm many experienced over there.   It's a very big different. 
But I try best in the next week.

Q.   Very nice job today.   Good luck the rest of next week.   How happy are you with your start here at the Jon Deere?
K.J. CHOI:   I think first time bogey‑free in the round, so I'm very so happy.   That's why I'm hitting good and irons in the change this week.   Callaway irons is fantastic.   I mean, chipping and stay on green.
Usually my swing is very well.   Sometimes in golf courses my pitcher in the feel different.   I always in the 100% feel play in golf course. 
(Indiscernible.)   Hit it very well.   Reading sometimes need help, and couple times I'm making birdie.   I'm so good.   So far three more down.   I'm very good this week.

Q.   This is just the second time playing in this tournament.   You've been up and down as of late.   Why did you decide to come here this week?
K.J. CHOI:   Two years ago I play here, and the (indiscernible) over there is fantastic in saving energy.   And then second thing is more people loving me and cheering me.   Better cheer up in my tournaments very good. 
These courses, I love it.   Chipping ball and I hit the ball and then grind is very nice.
I'm so good in this courses.   The more calm is I play in (indiscernible.) 

Q.   You're off to a great start.   Keep it up. 
K.J. CHOI:   Thank you very much. 

Q.   (No microphone.) 
K.J. CHOI:   Yeah, the mornings are very calm.   Weather is fantastic and the greens are very smooth and fairways are good.   Everybody is a good job this week.
I focused every day in the 4‑under par.   More than 4‑under par, so I'm 6‑under, very, very good.

Q.   You can't win a tournament on a Thursday, but you can do a lot to get an advantage.   How does it feel to be up near the top of leaderboard already?
K.J. CHOI:   Yeah, you know, the scoring doesn't matter in the feel.   Very important is I play this course, and the feel is very comfortable.   More confidence here. 
So I'm play fantastic today and a great start.   It's a couple birdie in the long putt and short putt in the making all day long.
I'm good position now.   I keep going in the practice a little bit.   Today first time caddie Graham together, and is very comfortable in the golf course. 

Q.   What do you expect from this afternoon?   How has the course played?   It's been real hot here?
K.J. CHOI:   I play Tuesday very well.   I play Pro‑Am, a little firm.   Today is a little more firm.   I think more day by day a little bit harder. 
But this course is very good tees and short iron play.   Great play here everybody, and short iron 150 yards and everybody stopping quick. 
So, I mean, keep going great score.   My goal 5‑under par every day is a win score. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT