NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 16, 2012
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  LAURA HILL:   We'd like to welcome K.J. Choi to the interview room, a nice 69 today in some tough, windy conditions.   Maybe just talk about your round and what worked for you out there today. 
K.J. CHOI:   I wake in the morning 4:30, and outside window there were palm trees like this.   Very, very difficult on the golf course.   Wind direction is different yesterday to today.   Yesterday more down side on the first hole, and today against the wind.   18 against the wind. 
More difficult than a normal wind.   And then downwind green is very firm, and control very difficult.   It's difficult to putting inside five feet, and today every one make it.   Chipping inside three feet, five feet, make it, and stay under par to finish. 
Never any rounds inside five feet is make putt this week.   First time.   I'm so happy. 
And a good number.   Three more days, and I will continue focus and stay patient and finish the best this week. 

Q.   Were there any shots that were particularly hard to hit in the wind today, and can you just talk about any in particular that surprised you with what happened with the ones you hit today? 
K.J. CHOI:   Generally just the right‑to‑left wind was very hard to play against, and it made the tee shots very difficult.   But luckily my putting was there, so I was able to recover. 

Q.   Do you like playing in the wind?   Do you play in the wind often anywhere, or do you not like it? 
K.J. CHOI:   Yeah, I mean, I like playing in the wind.   In Dallas where I live, you get a lot of wind there.   But what makes the Riviera Country Club so difficult is the targets are very small.   But if you have control of what you're doing, then obviously it's going to make it easier. 

Q.   The greens are very difficult hard.   How was it playing on hard greens today? 
K.J. CHOI:   The greens were very hard and fast today, even faster than Augusta at times.   The poa annua grass, it was difficult to determine the grain.   Sometimes it was bumpy and sometimes it wasn't, so you had a tough time putting. 

Q.   Do you think the score you shot today, considering the conditions, how good was that score in your mind? 
K.J. CHOI:   You know, yeah, despite the windy conditions, I think a 4‑ or 5‑under par is possible, especially with the wind dying down.   So it was kind of a bummer not to score a little lower. 

Q.   Can you go through your birdies and bogeys? 
K.J. CHOI:   1st, 15 feet, birdie; 6th, 20 feet, birdie; No.9, 20 feet, bogey, two‑putt; and No.13 is maybe four feet and make it.   That's it. 
LAURA HILL:   K.J. Mike, thank you so much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT