COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
February 1, 2012
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MICHAEL GIBBONS:   KJ, thanks for joining us.   If you'd just start us off with your thoughts for the week ahead, tell us your game, the usual.
K.J. CHOI:   I have two weeks in Abu Dhabi and Qatar is very enjoyed, wind blowing and the blue sky and nice weather, nice people, and spectators and food.   It's amazing.   The market area and local food is very good. 
I'm very enjoying the two weeks on the European Tour, and my game is more improved in play and driving irons and the putting.   Last week different seeing the green, and I grow up in Korea, it's very green, bentgrass, and this area is very brown.   So I can't see in the black and green. 
This week, too.   Hitting sand wedge, even the release is five, ten yards, and downwind.   So it's more important the irons keeping in the green, and the worst part is very important, the right side, miss it right and the pin, stopping the chipping.   The left side of the pin on the left is terrible.   So it's very important to make the green, control the iron shots. 
And the putting is a more comfortable feel than last week.   But I started today in the second round in the Pro Am, and these courses are fine and everything.   So so far it looks very good, natural golf course, good design.   It's even wind blowing, very strong.   And I kept it out of the trees, and very difficult to control iron shot.   So I'll try the best this week.

Q.   In Abu Dhabi you've had some good rounds but then you've had some bad rounds.   How would you assess Abu Dhabi and what changes are you making this week after Abu Dhabi?
K.J. CHOI:   Yeah, mainly last week, putting was a problem, which eventually affected my shots.   I felt pressure because the putts weren't falling in.   It was really hard to read the greens.   When you look at the greens, they look fast, but when you actually hit them, they're slow.   So that's what really confused me, and that's probably the main reason why I had an up‑and‑down tournament.   This week feeling a little bit better with the putting. 

Q.   Any thoughts about Alvaro Quiros?
K.J. CHOI:   Yeah, Quiros has got great talent.   He's a very humble guy, and obviously he kills the ball.   I was fortunate enough to play with him at the Masters the first and second round last year, and I had fun playing with him.   I felt very comfortable being paired with him.   He hits the ball long and because of it his course management is a lot easier for players who don't hit it as far.   But he's a good friend, and he's very respectful to other players and that's why I like him. 

Q.   How many tournaments will you play this year and how many of those will be on the European Tour?
K.J. CHOI:   Thinking about playing probably a total of anywhere between 27 and 28 tournaments a year, and of those probably around six on the European Tour. 

Q.   What's it like life on the tour without Andy Prodger? 
K.J. CHOI:   Yeah, Andy definitely is a good friend, and obviously it was time that he needed some rest to take some time off. 
I've worked with him for eight years.   All I have is good memories of him.   You know, obviously I'll miss him, but it's something that I have to overcome and move forward. 
I just try my best every week.   Andy is definitely a good friend.   He respects me a lot.   We respected each other a lot, and I think he's probably having a swell time right now resting at home. 
MICHAEL GIBBONS:   Any more, guys?   All right.   KJ, many thanks for joining us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT