ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 28, 2017
K.J. Choi
Charlie Wi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 13-under in the tournament so far, 8-under today.  K.J. which performance are you the most proud of so far between those two?
K.J. CHOI: You know, every hole we had the best friendship and the play.  I very well enjoyed this format, very like the golf course, and Charlie and I making putts, momentum every hole.  Very exciting two days round.  Today is very windy stronger, but we enjoyed so far.
Q. Charlie, you basically came out of retirement to play in this event, only played six rounds this year until last week.  What do you credit this amazing performance to?
CHARLIE WI: Well, I worked pretty hard last week and a half.  I played professionally for over 20 years, so I know how to prepare.  But K.J. played great today.  He carried me the first nine holes and I was able to make a couple birdies on the back nine.  But he really played solid, and I really was on his back all day.
Q. K.J. mentioned the wind.  Just how challenging and where specifically on the course was the wind the most challenging?
CHARLIE WI: Well, I think the back nine is a little bit more open, so the greens are pretty fast.  They're putting really difficult.  But overall, conditions are very difficult.  But as you can see, there's so many good players out here, there are a lot of good scores today.
Q. K.J. is anybody having as much fun as you guys are having right now?
K.J. CHOI: Yeah, it's better enjoy.  The golf course is -- see, the greens are very tough in the afternoon.  Grain is tough grain and shiny, so the greens are very difficult.  But Charlie and I are very detailed into seeing how much break and how much to hit it.  Every time, K.J. more hard, more hard, just making it, and slow down, I make a couple putts very well.  Still, it's a good game and good friends, and every hole we feel comfortable.  Many mistakes, but we very survival and make a putt and make a chipping on every shot.  So more important alternate-shot tomorrow.  It's focus in good rest and more practice.
Q. Charlie, he's going to talk you into playing more golf throughout the course of the year.  Welcome back.
CHARLIE WI: He did say that last night at dinner.  I said, no, I like being home.  But he played great today.  I'm glad I was able to help out on a few holes when he needed me, but he's playing really, really solid, so there's a lot of good things ahead of him this year.
Q. With the competitive juices flowing but having this partnership, how much easier, if that's the right word, does it make playing golf the way you guys can feed off each other?  You looked like just a well-oiled machine out there right now.
CHARLIE WI: Well, I hit a lot of good shots on the back nine, but front nine I really struggled.  K.J. hit first off the tee to take some pressure off me, and he's such a good player, he kept everything in play, so it was a little bit easier for me.  Not having played that much this year, this format really suits me well.
Q. Do you have to be more aggressive on the greens because you have a tendency to leave them short?
K.J. CHOI: No, the greens are seeing the dark, it's a little bit slow.  My ball always end up a little bit shortly.  He always say, okay, a little bit harder, harder to make it.  Very free friendship in the play.  Different than Presidents Cup and Ryder Cup in the format is team under pressure, and team by team, group by group in the points.  We just Charlie and I enjoy play.  That's why very more relaxed in the golf and more golf course is a little wide open and more shootout, and it's a fantastic tournament.
Q. Charlie, what do you like most about playing with K.J.?
CHARLIE WI: We've built a friendship for a long time, and I know his game really well because we played so many practice rounds together.  I was hoping that we got to play World Cup or Presidents Cup together one time, but we didn't get a chance to, but this format, we're having a lot of fun because he's such a good player, and it's easy for me just to tag along.  But I've got to show up tomorrow in the alternate-shot.
Q. K.J. what do you like most about playing with Charlie?
K.J. CHOI: No, I'm very comfortable.  His chipping and putting is so awesome.  It's fantastic.  I miss shot, okay, I say, okay, he great chipping.  Okay, I putt.  Some guys at this point there's no talking about, is not really relaxed and more pressure come, it's very difficult.  Alternate-shot is unbelievable pressure because individual in hitting every other hole, very big pressure.  Weekend is moving day, so many people moving and more focus in hitting ball and something wrong.  More who guys is more relaxed on the golf course is enjoyable, and hitting very well, and it's more making putt.  This week Charlie and I's short games are very good, so we more little think and making shot and making more imagination shot.  It's more comfortable tomorrow.
Q. You guys seem to have such a great chemistry.  How important is chemistry in a kind of event like this?
CHARLIE WI: Chemistry?  Well, chemistry is only good when you're playing well, right?  It just happens that we're both playing pretty well.  You know, I've been helping K.J. out a little bit, and he practices a lot, and I've been practicing a lot the last couple weeks, so hopefully the game is coming around.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT