THE PRESIDENTS CUP
November 18, 2011
K.J. Choi
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. A hard-fought win there, pretty much he left you alone at the last but I noticed one thing, you kept the ball underneath the hole. 
 GEOFF OGILVY: Under the hole 40 yards is better than ten yards on the wrong side of the hole. I didn't mean to leave myself whatever that was, 180 feet on the last hole, but I was trying to leave it short, anyway.
 Royal Melbourne doesn't get any harder than this. Sometimes it can be dose I'll and today it was really, really hard and you had to play smart and keep it under the hole. A tough match but we got it in the end.

 Q. How do you feel about your performance this afternoon as a team and what did you think of the rest of the matches? 
 K.J. CHOI: We are good teammates and every hole and everybody is cheering. We have a very good partnership all day long. 

 Q. Early on it was really tight and you holed a bunker shot on 3, how did that swing the match for you guys?
 GEOFF OGILVY: That was nice, one of those little bonuses. It's a cardinal sin to get over the back of that green. There's a lot of good places to miss that, and that wasn't it. I guess it's, you hole it or you're out of the hole. 
 Luckily I hit a bunker shot, it was going along and hit the pin and went in the hole. We won next hole and kind of carried on, kind of out most of the day but it was tight all the way and had to come down 18 again but managed to sneak it in at the end. 
 K.J. CHOI: Royal Melbourne requires a lot of imagination. Good bunker play, but cannot spin, but I'm hoping that we have a win every day, and a good try on every shot. 

 Q. The weather conditions, you've played here a fair bit but it was tough today. 
 GEOFF OGILVY: That's as tough as it gets. Some would say fun. A lot of times it's kind of fun out there when it's like that, when a par means a lot. Sometimes these best-balls get crazy with how many birdies people make. I hope everybody has fun watching guys really think about a golf course and miss it under the hole and hit some smart putts and smart shots. 
 So it's as hard as Royal Melbourne guess, but it's an argument to say this is as fun as it can get, too. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT