TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 24, 2011
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Can you start with a couple of comments on your day?   
 K.J. CHOI: Starting a couple drives bad. And then No. 4, on the right side caught in the deep rough, and I hit it solid, 255 to the pin, 5-wood, a little bit short in the bunker, and missed putt and a bogey.   
 Next hole, par-3, No. 6, amazing putt, right to left on my read, and then three feet right, and then hit it, five feet, ball right, so three-putt again.   
 Very difficult read today. I don't know if it's my eyes are still sometimes on the green and the grain which way. I hit it a couple feet quick and change directions.   
 On the back nine more patience, and hole by hole, best shot, best shot, and more come down. So I finish 17 birdie and 18 par, so very good finish. So far in good position for the final round.   
  
  Q. Was there a moment where you turned your round around?   
 K.J. CHOI: Moment is No. 7, and chipping is very difficult, left side in the corner. Amazing. I've never seen myself good chip. Only one foot. It's amazing, and make par.  
 And then 8, 9 birdie, and then 10 to 17, very calm and patient in the play, so good I play. Putting a little different but still, stroke good. I have a good chance tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Would you consider a win here a bigger win than THE PLAYERS?  
 K.J. CHOI: Oh, yeah. I'm never so good in Jacksonville, TPC for me, because my shot left to right and the fade shot all the time, and then this year, the focus on draw shot, my swing coach, Steve Bahn, and I always draw, high draw, 10 yards, 15 yards, and many training on the range. Very successful on a couple draw shots on big golf course and very comfortable.   
 This week also some par-4 very long, but tee shot, driver very narrow fairway, but 3-woods and low draw shot and more line, even 280, 275 yards, 3-woods, iron play very good. So still stay green, chance at birdie. I focus on tomorrow and every day the same, and the patience, I play very well.  
  
  Q. Is that your name on your hat so people know it's you and not Y.E.?   
 K.J. CHOI: Yeah, many people is I love it. Sometimes my sign and the foundation is my cap, and I deliver it to my friend Michael and sign already. Some people good mentor and pick up and the names and deliver my sign on caps. I'm so happy, spectators and everybody.   
  
  Q. How do you keep yourself from thinking about what's at stake tomorrow?   
 K.J. CHOI: Every day a little different, whether it's in -- I'm awake early today at 4:00, and I'm very good feel in time by 4:00. It's time again, sleep. Other days are eight hours' sleep straight. Some bodies, the momentum, the hot weather, and the muscle is doing sometimes a little early it comes the sun, and hopefully tonight it's more good sleep, seven straight hours, and then tomorrow is more better.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT