TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 23, 2011
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q. Tell us about your round today and what clicked. 
 K.J. CHOI: Today is a very comfortable tee shot, and the putting is very well. Because yesterday the five-footers and ten-footers, many missed putts and the wrong reads. Today in the morning on the putting green 45 minutes early, come to golf course. I reading and speed today is fantastic, some great shots with the irons and then tap-in birdies. So far swinging it great and compact and confident in the tournament. I hope that this tournament is my best round so far. 
 Long time ago this course is very difficult tee shot, and I can't make the second shot. This week it's a very comfortable tee shot and putting.

 Q. What made the scoring conditions so good today?
 K.J. CHOI: Mindset is clear. Yesterday I'm hitting very well, and then so many missed putts and the wrong reads, and today is more focus on the greens and the reads more better and the speed is more comfortable. And then the wind blowing in my hometown in Dallas is more windy than here, so I'm more control irons is more better this week. 

 Q. You have a wrap on your hand. We heard you injured your thumb?
 K.J. CHOI: No, injury is push up in the bands, little help in my muscle. Two months ago my first thumb in little joint is a little bit hurt in the down swing, the angle different, and the ball hit it in the direction is very difficult to control. So I keep going, and if anything happened, many doctors, and more comfortable now. 
 This week it never hurt, but yesterday one time is a little hurt on the low side. Sometimes the top side is okay, but turning over in the hand is a little round. Today is never pain, it's great today.

 Q. Which tournament did you start noticing it? 
 K.J. CHOI: I think PGA Championship, so I don't know. Weather is a big different change, and that two months, three months ago in Dallas was very hot, over 105, 110, and then many weeks it change different weather, so body muscles is big change. So I don't know, it's a little -- grip pressure is a little different, so hit it harder, and many practice, sore.

 Q. What kind of treatment are you doing for it?
 K.J. CHOI: You know, anything that happen to my muscle -- maybe tomorrow is off the tape and I'll try, and first hit is very important.

 Q. You find yourself in the lead right now. How does that change your approach going into the weekend?
 K.J. CHOI: Yeah, my game is every day same thing. It's more focus every day, so every shot, every single hole very important. My game style is a little calm. It's not up and down, it's a mindset. So very important this week the tee shot. Anybody in the fairway can miss the shot in the fairway because perfect conditions, and sometimes the rough is a little deep side, on the high side, and the flier, and the control is very difficult. 
 Now there's confidence when hit a tee shot is most definitely in the fairway, more control with the irons, and putting very well. I keep going in the mindset, more focused in the fairway, and more putting make it, so we try and winning this week.

 Q. You have your coach Steve Bann here with you?
 K.J. CHOI: Yeah, Steve Bann been working with seven years. It's more swing and down swing -- the ball is very compact and very simple swing. It's a little more energy but hit the ball longer, so I'm very so happy for him to get here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT