ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
May 1, 2011
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Very difficult playing. I thought you gave it all you had. Unfortunately, a couple hiccups with three putts coming down the stretch.   
 K.J. CHOI: Number 10 really hurt me there. Coming in the back nine, it was really getting harder to read the greens. It was a tough day putting.   
  
  Q. Another good tournament for you though? You have to be looking forward to the rest of the year. You're striking the ball very well.   
 K.J. CHOI: Yeah, I'm feeling very confident. Everything's going well. The only thing that I need to probably work on is I still feel a little uncomfortable with my -- still getting used to the new putting, lining up my eyes with the ball line. So once I can improve on that, I think I'll have a good rest of the year.  
  
  Q. Did you have a number going out today? You knew what number you needed to shoot to get into contention?  
 K.J. CHOI: Still in the afternoon it's very windy, and I was a little confused on the second shot. It was very difficult on 12 the iron play, and everybody three to four feet had a very difficult read on the putting. Though the tournament did a fantastic and great job.  
  
  Q. Did you know, or did you realize that you were within two at one point? Were you watching the leaderboard?   
 K.J. CHOI: One time I looked and Bubba Watson was 17 or 16-under. So great numbers this week. It was a very good tournament.  
  
  Q. Talk about the missed putt on 17 was that maybe three feet. That putt on 17 that you missed.   
 K.J. CHOI: I'm looking at who can hit it left side. So the grain is -- my first putt is right to left. Then my second putt is, again, right to left, so very confusing to hit it.   
 I hit rescue iron and hybrid. And I start just over on the hill, and it was a little confusing downhill on the distance control. It was a little harder. But it was a great tournament.   
  
  Q. The putt on 18 downhill, real slippery. Did you feel like it was going to go a little right and it just didn't move?   
 K.J. CHOI: Yeah, I did. The last putt too left to right. I hit it still on the left side and it was still going to miss on the left. But my second and third shot in the bunker, and I didn't hole it. I just missed the pin.   
 Then if it hit the pin it would stop quick, and I could have a birdie or eagle. You know, I just try.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT