FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
February 1, 2016
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I know it wasn't a win, but congratulations on a strong finish.
K.J. CHOI: Yeah, strong finish.
(Laughter.)
Q. How would you describe, what do you take away from a finish like this in these conditions?
K.J. CHOI: Two hours ago or three hours ago in the calm and as soon as we came out of the clubhouse the wind was blowing 15 to 25 or 30 miles an hour.  So my focus on the back nine is to maybe shoot even par is the best score today.  So I made a mistake on 13 or 14 with the putt.  The wind blowing it was very left-to-right and the line is left-to-right.  So a little bit more break or play it straight.  So it was very enjoyable this week.  But yesterday was not enjoyable.  It was a very tough day.  It's I was hitting drivers 210 yards in the fairway, I kept it in the fairway but the second shot is 230 yards to the pin.  So it was too long of a course.
Q. How difficult would you say the conditions were today compared to yesterday?
K.J. CHOI: Yesterday they were worse.  Today it's a little better than yesterday because a little more sunny and the temperature was higher.  Yesterday it was cool and the muscles were getting squeezed because I was so cold.  I wasn't flexible.  I was very tight in the back.  And the rain gear and the swing was bothering me.  So everything completely better, but still wind is very strong.  So I don't know.
Q. Can you walk us through your third shot and the putt on the 18th hole.
K.J. CHOI: Yeah, I know scoring already, so we make it birdie on 18.  The wind was blowing, we left the third shot at 115 yards.  I remember a 9-iron sometimes with too much spin and the wind blowing and in the water is no good.  So I think that my shot in there was pretty good.  I hit an 8-iron a punch cut to the top slope and with no back spin.  So a little bit longer, two foot longer with the top spin, so it couldn't back up.  You know, nobody knows, though.  Sometimes it goes five feet or 10 foot.
Anyway, I'm very happy, two time second here, so next time I'll try again to win.
(Laughter.)
Q. You're a veteran getting a great finish here, early in your year, ask that give you optimism positive energy as you move forward now in the year?
K.J. CHOI: You know, after the Presidents Cup I saw that the 2016 was the Olympics.  And I want to play for South Korea, I want to play, but I need to have wins.  That's why I'm training the last two months, three months very hard.  I'm hitting balls to have control to hit the ball very well.  Putting is more improved than last year.  So, still my age is going up and my game is more calm and stable.  There are many young players that are following me over in Korea, Asia, all the people, you know, when you're over 40, sometimes they think I'm too old and too short a hitter.  This week and weekend my driving distance was 230, 235, with this wind.  And I still have imagination in the green side and coming and putting.  Still it was just survival.  But I'll continue to play this year more comfortable starting with confidence and a good finish this year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT