U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2010
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Nice round of golf, K.J. Are you happy with the way you played today?
 K.J. CHOI: Yes. I'm best start in the first two holes, bogey, double bogey. My body is very cold this morning, a little bit, and range coming down the putting, it's not warm so I hit it.  But still in my mind -- you hit it in the driving range and I'm comfortable swinging after 4, 5, 6, more in the nature of my shot and very strong finish today. Every day even par is a very good situation, you know. And U.S. Open first time ever in an under par finish in the first day. 
 So I'm so happy today. After two hole and then comfortable and -- I'm twice in three-putt. Uphill alternatives slow, but downhill I don't understand how far downhill, so I hit it twice in three-putt. But more practice downhill, tomorrow is more better.

 Q. What did you think about the par-5, 14th hole?
 K.J. CHOI: Par-5, 14? Yes, my driver is today literally 300 yards, 295. And there bunker is 205 and the carry on the bunker side. So a little bit the cut on the face. And the second shot I literally 120, 115 yards. So yesterday harder greens. But today more quick start, so more happy. So it's very tough in the left side. So very scary shot in the left. Concentration on the right side of the corner. So pitching wedge is pretty fair.

 Q. You had a pairing today with two guys with very similar games to yours. Were you able to sort of feed off each other?
 K.J. CHOI: Yeah, Mike is a good friend of mine, long time on the PGA TOUR, and Presidents Cup twice, and very, very nice man, play very well. His short game is great. My shot in there today, the iron doing good and, you know, Tim Clark is a good group, is the best in playing in the U.S. Open.

 Q. Monday I talked to you and you said you thought even par could win this tournament. Having played a round out there today, do you think even par is still good?
 K.J. CHOI: This course it looks like is wide open fairway, but in the teeing ground, hitting before in the mindset, in the right, in the left, either way is very tough in the bunker and tough in the rough. And it can't stop in the bouncing, so very scared on the tee shot. 
 But I focus in the morning every time it's down the middle. It's a little long iron, but very important in the tee shot in the fairway. So a couple of hole, No. 6 and, you know, No. 4 on the right side in the rough, in the bouncing creek on the right in the water, and No. 10, it looks very wide open, the fairway, but hit it, it's very short in the middle fairway. And more practice and focus on the five, ten yards on the target and hit the ball, the tee ball, is very important.

 Q. How many drivers did you use?
 K.J. CHOI: I play No. 6 and No. 14 -- sorry, No. 9, No. 14 and then 18, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT