U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2010
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   BETH MURRISON: We're joined by K.J. Choi in the media center. K.J., thanks for joining us. 1-under 70. Here in the 2010 U.S. Open. Can you talk about your round today?   
 K.J. CHOI: I shot under par today. I think this is the first time I've ever shot under par to begin the U.S. Open with.   
 I started out with bogey and double bogey, which wasn't good, but as the holes went by I tried to find my rhythm again. I didn't give up.   
 So eventually I found my swing, my shots got better, putting went better, I was able to finish the day with 1-under so, I'm happy about that. I think if I just keep it up at this pace for the next three days I'll have a good finish.   
 BETH MURRISON: Could I ask you to go through the birdies and bogeys on your card today?   
 K.J. CHOI: First hole is a 10-footer, 2-putt, it's a bogey.   
 Second hole is left miss the green and chip it 20 feet and then 3-putt. Double bogey.   
 So No. 4 second shot a hundred, and hit it that to three feet and 1-putt.   
 No. 6, I hit it a 3-wood and 195 yards and then hit a 6-iron and then a chip and a 10-footer for the 1-putt.   
 No. 9 is hit a driver and 165 yards and then 9-iron and 15 feet and then 1-putt and made birdie there.   
 No. 11, that's a 3-wood off the tee and second shot is 145 yards, 9-iron. And hit it to 15 feet and then made birdie.   
 13, I hit a driver, second shot was 175 yards and I hit a 6-iron and hit it to 10 feet and then a 1-putt birdie.   
 14, I hit a driver and then third shot was 135 yards with a pitching wedge and then hit it to two feet. Made birdie.   
 15 is on the green 20 feet and a 3-putt downhill.   
 The 17th hole, right side of the bunker and I buried second shot in there, and so it can't spin. And then that was to 15 feet and then I 2-putted for bogey.   
  
  Q. What holes played the toughest today and why? Was it the wind or was it the conditions?  
 K.J. CHOI: I think No. 2 is probably the toughest hole because if you miss it to the left or right and when you have to lay it up on the green, that's a tough shot.   
 The entrance to the green as you're walking up to the green, the entrance to the green is, if you miss it, you don't have that much of a chance. There's bunkers, the bunkers, the sand, you can't really spin the ball out of the bunkers.   
 So I think a lot of the players, if you find yourself in the bunker, you're going to end up with a bogey.   
 Also, at No. 14 and 17, those are also difficult holes because and No.  
 14 it's very hard to put the ball in the fairway on your second shot and it's very difficult to get it on the green.   
 On No. 17, the greens are hard and the ball's going to bounce off if you miss it to the right, bunker, there's a bunker there, it's hard to spin the ball out of the bunker, so those are very difficult holes.   
 BETH MURRISON: Did the course play more difficult as your round went on, and do you expect it to get more difficult as the day goes on today for the players in the afternoon.  
 K.J. CHOI: Yeah, definitely the holes look, the holes play a lot more difficult than they look when you're standing on the tee. So I think you need a lot of patience, you need to be calm out there, otherwise you're going to find yourself in trouble. I think I was able to keep my calm throughout the holes, so I had an under par day today.   
  
  Q. I noticed on the leaderboard there were a lot of red numbers in the middle of the round. So it would be like 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, and that surprised me. I thought that those holes would play harder for the field. Why do you think that might have happened?  
 K.J. CHOI: I think it's because players are able to not attack greens directly because if you're able to land the ball in front of the green and have it roll on the green, then you're going to have a lot of birdie opportunities.   
 But if you're hitting, if you're going straight for the green, the targets, the pin position is very difficult, the greens are hard, so you're going to find yourself, find your ball in a bouncing off the green.   
 But I think if -- I think players were able to be smart on those holes, and I think they were able to give themselves opportunities.   
 BETH MURRISON: K.J., thank you very much. Congratulations on your fine play. We wish you well on your play the rest of the week.   
 K.J. CHOI: Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT