VERIZON HERITAGE
April 15, 2010
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome K.J. Choi into the interview room after a 7-under par 64. 
 K.J., that was great playing out there. If we can just get some opening comments on your round. 
 K.J. CHOI: I'm very happy to have shot a great round today. Last week and this week, as well, the putting is very important, especially in reading the speed of the greens. That's why this morning before I went out I practiced on the putting green. I checked the speed of the greens. I felt good about it. I practiced a lot this morning.
 This golf course tee shot is very important. If you miss any fairways you're going to get into trouble. But I focused especially on my tee shots today. Once you drive it well, then obviously your iron shot is going to be very good. And that was the case for me today. My iron shot was very good. It was a great round.

 Q. How are your galleries different today after playing with Tiger four straight days at Augusta?
 K.J. CHOI: Yeah, you know what, the crowds actually picked up a little towards the end, there. So I felt very good about it. Yeah, the aura, the atmosphere is a little different than last week. But when you step on the tee box in the first hole you still get that competitive pressure. So I felt that. And I just tried to play focused today and played my best, and I think I played a great round.

 Q. How much did your confidence carry over from last week?
 K.J. CHOI: For the four rounds I played with Tiger last week I actually learned a lot from that experience. Two things mainly: Being patient and second thing is focus. And I was able to do that last week. I think that experience is only going to help me better, more, and I'm thankful for the experience that I had with Tiger.

 Q. Many players don't come here because they're worn out after The Masters. Do you feel any kind of fatigue or how are you feeling physically right now after last week?
 K.J. CHOI: I'm feeling really good these days. This is my third appearance at this tournament. First time since 2001. My confidence is up. Normally after The Masters I'll go back home, but for some reason this year I wanted to come here. I've been playing good and I guess I wanted to keep that rhythm going. And now that I'm here and I see the reactions of the gallery, the sponsors, I feel a lot of support here. So I feel very good. And I thank them for making me feel so welcome.

 Q. What do you think is the reason for your strong start this season?
 K.J. CHOI: Two main things: First would be my body feels physically a lot better than last year. And secondly, I have a different mindset this year because I'm hitting the ball a lot better. So when I'm on the golf course my confidence is very strong. I feel very confident that wherever I hit the ball I'm going to at least get it up and down. That's how good I think I'm playing these days. 
 And if I were to add a third reason it would be the swing change that I've been going through for the past few years, I think it's finally starting to settle in and I feel really comfortable about that.

 Q. There's a really good chance that 7-under will hold up or at least be tied for the lead after today. Are you comfortable playing with the lead? Is that something you like to do or would you rather chase and come from behind?
 K.J. CHOI: Every week is a little different. It depends on what situation I'm in. But I try not to really think about that too much when I'm in the lead or trying to catch someone. I really did come here -- I didn't come here to try and force a win. The reason I came here was my mindset these days are trying to check -- trying to confirm and check whether the shots that I've been practicing are working. And this is a good opportunity, playing in tournaments like this, to confirm all the hard work that I've been doing is paying off. 
 I don't think about that too much, also, because the Lord is going to give me what I want. Everything is depending on what He does for me. Whether I play good or whether I don't play good, if that's what the Lord has in store for me, I'm satisfied. I don't think about that too much. 
 JOHN BUSH: Do you want to take us through your birdies, your scorecard. 
 K.J. CHOI: (In English) First birdied on the second hole, 15 foot and a putt.
 No. 3, three-putt in the fringe, 20 feet.
 No. 4, par-3, 10-footer for par.
 No. 5, a par-5, and 2-iron and two-putt. 
 No. 9 is almost 18 foot and putt. 
 11 is 15 feet and one-putt.
 13 is almost a 10-footer.
 15 in the par-5, is 12 feet and one-putt.
 And 16 is one foot, one-putt. That's it. 

 Q. I wanted to ask, talk a little bit about the course and how this course fits your game.
 K.J. CHOI: This type of a course I get the feeling that the more holes that you play, the harder it's going to get. It's going to put more pressure on the players, because if you miss the tee shots you practically have no chance at all to get it up and down. Honestly, I didn't really hit my drives that well today but I was able to score well because I was able to get it up and down and I think that's part of the reason why I'm playing good these days is because I'm able to get it up and down. 
 I love this type of a golf course with a lot of trees. I feel comfortable playing here. 
 JOHN BUSH: K.J., great start. Keep it going. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT