FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 30, 2016
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You caught up right at the end.  Tell us about your round.
K.J. CHOI: Yeah, I'm starting very difficult on the putting speed.  Putting greens are nice and smooth, but on the course it's very downhill very fast.  It was a difficult for the feeling.  I missed number 7, double bogey in the left pull, not pulled a very good shot, but in the very firm green.  So we don't know that number 7 is very firm.
So I have a couple birdies after that so keep going and showed patience.  The last hole was a three shot hole.  Even today with the forward tee, but still my driver distance I had to lay up to 95 yards with a sand wedge.  Hit it to three feet and made birdie.
So the last birdie will help, because tomorrow it's going to be tough.  So it was a very good round today.
Q. Do you play well in the rain?
K.J. CHOI: I used to be more, many experience in the British Open and my home, Dallas, always the winter is 15 to 20 miles an hour and windy.  I know my wind play, I know how to do it, I know my ball directions.  I have had a little more practice.  So putting is more important tomorrow because the wind blowing harder, it can hurt you on the putting.  So I need to do more practice.
Q. Talk about the shot on 18.  Was it a hundred out?
K.J. CHOI: Yeah, second shot was 285 and the pin is over there on the edge.  My caddie and I suggested to lay up with the 6-iron.  And we had 95 yards.  I used my hands to control it from 95 to 115.  So inside 115, imagination is very important and to have a good feel.  So I hit it three feet and had a good chance for birdie.  And I made it.
Today inside five feet it's very difficult reading the greens.  So, the ocean side was hitting to the left and then the hook lie and hitting the more right.  So many confusion on the front nine.  So I end up with mine was a little more tension is in my focus on the putting so I make it is a lot in the same.
Q. How motivating was the crowd for you out there?
K.J. CHOI: Many players, over 15 times play here.  So today was awesome.  The crowd was good and supportive and there was some good fans and the Korean community was here and all the people are very lovely.  And I'm so very happy to have the support of the fans.
Q. This is the toughest this golf course played all week.  Would you agree with that?
K.J. CHOI: Oh, yeah, we talked about it when we were walking the course.  Today and the final round we saw the pin positions and the greens are very firm.  We don't know in the hit how much it's bouncing and sometimes it spin good.  More important today on the putting today.  Starting first hole with the downhill, oh, my goodness.  The four foot putts, it was very difficult.  It was very confusing on the front nine.  I missed number 7, double bogey.  The golf, you know, it's, sometimes it's -- you don't know with the feel.  But today the pin positions were fairly difficult.  So, so far, so good.
Q. Let's move ahead to tomorrow.  You've been in position many times out here on the PGA TOUR and succeeded many times.  What do you think is going to be the biggest key for you to have a great day tomorrow and maybe hold the championship trophy?
K.J. CHOI: You know, this course is very important on the tee shot and second shot.  But more important is iron play.  So, today my greens in regulation was a little bit low, but normally I hit 80 percent, 75 percent.  But my chipping was good and the putting was good.  So I think that it's more the guys who have more imagination with iron play and then good putting.  So the putting is very difficult right now.  After hitting it, the line can change.
When the rain comes it might be softer on the greens, but I'm not sure.  I don't think so.  The greens won't get much softer.  The wind is blowing and it's much dryer.  So with not much rain, it's still difficult tomorrow.  So, irons, the high cut and the low draw and using a lot of imagination and making a lot of putts tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT