MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2010
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Was it a little bit surprising to see Tiger not hit the ball too good today?  
 K.J. CHOI: He only hit one really bad shot on 11. But that was about it. I don't think he was that far off. But it was a good four rounds and I enjoyed it really well.  
  
  Q. On 13 you had to back off of your second shot, did that disrupt your rhythm?  
 K.J. CHOI: Actually the hole before that we were told about our pace, so that was kind of, it kind of got me mentally.   
 And then on that second shot I was, on 13, I was really focused and I was getting ready to hit and then when that happened it threw me off as well.   
 And then from the bunker you had to hit it perfect on the green to make it trickle down to the hole. But that wasn't the case. And I think I hit it a little fat out of the bunker, so that kind of is, you saw what happened there.   
  
  Q. So were you in the bunker and not in the swale? I thought you were just in the swale?  
 K.J. CHOI: Yeah. Yeah.   
  
  Q. After a poor last season what was the key to your play this year?  
 K.J. CHOI: First of all my body physically feels much better than last year; and secondly I'm thinking very positive. And I think that every week I'm in contention, I think that's a big difference. And the last my swing has become really powerful and I'm swinging really great right now.  
  
  Q. What were the injuries from last year?  
 K.J. CHOI: Lower back injury.   
  
  Q. They say the Tournament starts on the back nine on Sunday, you were part of it this year, you made the back nine in contention, how exciting was it to be part of it?  
 K.J. CHOI: I think the back nine was definitely exciting. The course was a lot longer on the back nine this year and you saw a lot of birdies and eagles and it just made the game much more exciting for the fans.   
  
  Q. You just needed another 2 on 11, that's the problem.   
 K.J. CHOI: I tried to do that.   
  
  Q. Well it did turn out to be a historic week for Korea, with two finishing in the top-10.   
 K.J. CHOI: I think you're definitely right. In the past it was, the mindset of the Asian players was that when it comes to the Masters, there was a fear factor there, that we can't do it, but now I hope that this gives motivation for the younger players, other players, that they can do it at big tournaments like the Masters.   
  
  Q. His best Masters finish was in 2004 when there was another back nine shoot-out. Did this feel like that same Masters?  
 K.J. CHOI: Yeah, definitely, it was exciting like 2004, but only this year I think it was, on a personal level it was better for me because my playing level has improved a lot compared to 2004.   
 So I'm more satisfied, I think it was more gratifying for me this year and the fans were very supportive and just playing with Tiger for the last four days it was a very good experience for me.   
  
  Q. The lower back, did you go through rehab or anything to make it feel better or just kind of feel better with time?  
 K.J. CHOI: I have a physician in Korea and his name is Doctor Shinn, and he operates an oriental medicine hospital in Korea. And I get a lot of treatment regularly from him. And my workout routine was based on not overloading the lower back part. So all that helped very much.   
  
  Q. Did you execute your second shot on 14 the way you wanted to?  
 K.J. CHOI: It was actually longer than I wanted it to be. You have to get it on the short side, the front side of the green, but I hit it probably too long.  
  
  Q. What did you hit there?  
 K.J. CHOI: 7-iron.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT