MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2010
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Looks like you get Tiger again tomorrow. 
 K.J. CHOI: Unbelievable, absolutely fantastic. I'm used to him three rounds, so same pairing is fantastic in the tournament.

 Q. Your putter looked like it was -- well, you had some long putts today. Talk about your putting. 
 K.J. CHOI: It's not making long putter, but close to the hole, inside three feet. I practice all morning in the practice area, 50, 35 and 40 feet in the practice, the putt and the speed, and my body turn was getting into my head. And then all day long I hit the irons 35 feet, 25 feet, 40 feet, and make putt. So more comfortable today, more calm weather. The wind is very quiet, but still, greens are very hard. Sometimes they hit the hole and bounce over and travel many holes, so many quiet, slow down the second shot. 

 Q. You seem to be making most of your birdies on the back nine. Do you feel maybe you have to be a little more aggressive on the front tomorrow? 
 K.J. CHOI: Yeah, I don't know, I'm starting first hole to -- No. 5 is not comfortable when I tee off, and today five holes tee off on the right side, 235 to the pin, and then 3-iron I miss again. So tomorrow I hopefully hit tee shot and get going a couple holes and make birdies early and good start. 

 Q. Is there any method that you've used to deal with the crowds being with Tiger this week? How long has that taken you to get used to? 
 K.J. CHOI: No, I think it's very natural for the gallery to support Tiger. It's his tournament return here, so I just take it naturally. I don't make a big show of it. I just try to pray and I sing a good hymn, try to think about God's words, and that gives me comfort. 

 Q. It looked like you were having lots of fun out there today, interacting with the crowd and everything. 
 K.J. CHOI: I'm really having a good time this week, and I think the fans are really showing their love equally to everybody, especially to me, too, and every hole I feel like the crowds, they are supporting me, as well. It's just been a very comfortable week this week. 

 Q. If somebody would have told you on Wednesday that you would go into the final round just four off the lead, would you be happy? 
 K.J. CHOI: You know, I don't know what I would have been thinking about that. But I feel good right now, and I'm just going to keep to my routine and just keep on praying. You never know how this tournament is going to finish. We still have one more day, so all I can do is try my best, and we'll see how it goes.

 Q. You have an idea of what you need to shoot tomorrow or what the winning score will be? 
 K.J. CHOI: I don't know. No idea. Everybody is playing so well right now. It's really hard to determine at this stage what the winning score is going to be and who's going to come out on top.

 Q. Anything you'll go back to the practice range and work on or are you happy with where everything is right now?
 K.J. CHOI: I'm just going to get some good rest and get prepared for tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT