MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2010
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   K.J. CHOI: Yeah, so far, so good. It's a good number. Today pins are very tough. I'm starting a little the wind blowing, very strong wind, stopping quick and very confused. Still, iron play and short game and the putting very well. Some more practice tee shot and reading the greens is better tomorrow. 

 Q. Do you like your chances going into the weekend?
 K.J. CHOI: Yeah, I'm best so far second round in a major, and I'm very happy, and with Tiger Woods and Matt Kuchar, very progress in the tournament, and the golf course is very quiet, and everybody so polite in sports, and it was good today. 

 Q. I believe 70 is the low round today. Does that surprise you? 
 K.J. CHOI: You know, they mow the greens, some holes rolling a little confusing the speeds. A couple times two-putt, the 60 feet and the 50 feet and the short and the long. There's more long putts and distance control is very better. So everybody knows the golf course is very confusing.

 Q. What has it been like playing with Tiger?
 K.J. CHOI: You know, it's more comfortable to come to this tournament, and everybody knows the sport, was sporting today. We're living shot by shot, Tiger's shot and my shot. It's very similar timing. So I love it to play.

 Q. Were there any particular highlights of your round today, shots that were particularly good?
 K.J. CHOI: No, I'm starting, my drive is left and right and very worse in the driving today. And then better recoveries and short game and putting. It's more interesting, windy in between the trees. I don't know what direction to hit it. I hit it right to left in the water on the second hole. 
 After that it's more confidence in my swing and keep going in the tournament. You know, this course is very important, and either way -- and the back nine is a very scary shot, second shot into 11, 12, 13, very hard time. 
 Anyway, my game is very improved, and my confidence very good, mindset more rested, and practice very good tomorrow. 

 Q. The 13th and 16th holes have been very good to you so far. 
 K.J. CHOI: Yeah, 16 is very ugly shot, and Tiger is 7-iron and I'm 8-iron, and I'm punch the low cut shot. It's a little bit more right, miss the green, so I bogeyed. But that putt is very quick in the right to left, 20 feet, and I make it, so happy finish back nine.

 Q. You hit 8-iron?
 K.J. CHOI: 8-iron. Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT