MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2010
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. (Inaudible.)
 K.J. CHOI: So happy to play in the Masters. 

 Q. On 17 you made an important save. Tell us about that. 
 K.J. CHOI: Oh, 17 it's a mistake. And then the tee shot on the left side. And I drove the shot with a little pull. But anyway it was a good lie and it was 20 yards in front of the big tree. 
 And so I hit a big shot in there from 150 yards and I made a mistake on the wind how much and the turn right-to-left. And so I hit a little cut and a high ball and it dropped down in the bunker. 
 So usually bunker in a dead pull and it release and at 150 yards, many time it's a bad bunker when you hit it. Today it was a little quick stop and then I missed. But today putting feel was very, very good today.

 Q. Have you played with Tiger before in a Major?
 K.J. CHOI: Oh, yes. Not a major. I think so. I think it's the first time Major.

 Q. Was the atmosphere any different because of his return?
 K.J. CHOI: No, it's more calm today. So I'm very surprised and very proud of the gallery helping the play. And it not bother me. And so we really friendly in the play very well. So Tiger in a good come back.

 Q. There are so many good scores today, including yours at minus five. What do you expect the setup to be tomorrow?
 K.J. CHOI: I think more little harder and on Saturday a little relaxed and Sunday more harder. But these greens, every time in the -- sometimes you forget the line. And you have the water and the trees and then the birdie in the mindset very strong. And then it's the same for everybody. 
 On 17 I hit a pull to the left side of the tree and it bounced out in the rough and then chipping and five feet and made the par. And so it was a good to save par. And a very good finish and I'm so happy the way I finished in the Masters.

 Q. Can you describe how it was today with the Tiger and what it meant to play with him and his comeback?
 K.J. CHOI: He is a very strong mind in a player and he played very well. Every shot on the golf course. I know him and every time we play together so strong in the mind and really focused.

 Q. What were you guys talking about? I saw you talked a lot with him, more than you usually do. 
 K.J. CHOI: He's very relaxing today and we said a couple words and said hello and some more talking about this tournament's a very good job and everybody's very supportive in the fans, fantastic and very positive today. 
 It's surprising in the afternoon the score with the 5-under par. I birdie 12 in the wind and that. It's very important on the second shot. I said make the putt, make the putt, it's very important. 
 So I'm so lucky on the 13th hole. It hit the bank and it went down in the grass there and it stayed there. So sometimes in the bounce big and then water, but today thanking the gods that they are watching me. 
 So good time with Tiger, Tiger come back and the group was great and I really enjoyed today and he's a very strong focused on the golf course and I liked it. 

 Q. Obviously you saw Y.E. Yang's name on the board?
 K.J. CHOI: No, I'm starting on the Golf Channel and ESPN and to see all the good field. But it was a very strong today. I worked hard on the golf course. 

 Q. Did you enjoy playing in front of such a huge gallery?
 K.J. CHOI: Yeah, it's very support and the fans are very proud and the moves, I'm very surprised today and how much and everybody and I'm so proud of them today. And there's three more days so don't forget. 

 Q. We talked at Bay Hill and we talked a little bit about some of the swing changes or really some of the movement changes that you've done and you gained some distance in all of your clubs. Is that a factor today that was helpful to you?
 K.J. CHOI: A couple holes I hit the wrong club. First two holes I never hit it right. So today it's very strong windy, so a little longer tee and irons a little longer. 
 And big change in the 16 hole right before last three years with a 5-iron hit it and now it's 7-iron, today it's an easy 8-iron. So a little bit helping windy and against the wind it's more distance control is better. 

 Q. And 16 that was what about five feet, four feet?
 K.J. CHOI: Five feet, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT