TRANSITIONS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 21, 2010
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOE CHEMYCZ: We welcome K.J. Choi to the interview room, another great week in this event, two-time winner and now you're solo second, obviously another great week. If you could just talk a little bit about this week and you and Jim in a battle down the stretch, and you tied for the lead after seven holes and then things turned on the 8th with a birdie and a bogey, and that was difficult to make up the rest of the day.  
 K.J. CHOI: All I can say is I tried my best today. My shots felt great. You know, my hat is off to Jim, because he just played fantastic. I tried to put some pressure early in the round with some birdies, but he was patient enough to hang in there and play well.   
 On No. 8, I kind of bogeyed there. I had saw that it was a nice lie. I thought I putted great but it barely missed. All in all, this feels more than fantastic for me. It definitely exceeded my expectations, and so I'm very happy about that, and I have something to look forward to for next year.   
  
  Q. I think it was the fifth hole where you birdied and Furyk bogeyed and you were tied. Were you surprised that you were able to catch him that early, and did it change the way you played at all?  
 K.J. CHOI: I just said to myself, I just want to play my game, my shots.   
 You know, I felt like if I shot 4-under or better, you know, I could go into a playoff, or even come up with a win. But you know, my hat is off to Jim. He just played very well today. It's probably the best round of golf I've seen him play recently, and he putted great, too.   
 So I just came short of it, and so my hat is off to Jim.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about Jim's second shot on 18? You had an interesting view of it. It kind of buzzed a couple people's heads.   
 K.J. CHOI: Yeah, just went right in front of me (laughing). I thought it was a moon passing by. (Laughter).  
  
  Q. It almost hit you?   
 K.J. CHOI: Right in front of me. It came in the front of the tree and in between (indicating whizzing by).   
  
  Q. How did you pass your time during the long layoff this morning? Was it a distraction or did it give you a chance to -- the whole roller coaster of the morning and your whole afternoon.   
 K.J. CHOI: No, it didn't bother me at all. Having played on this TOUR for now my 11th year, I'm used to it. It's something that I expected.   
 Even if the tournament was to go to a Monday finish, it would have been no problem for me. I think it's just important that the players expect it and they accept it, and it wasn't a problem at all.   
  
  Q. Never heard you say the word ping-pong once; no?  
 K.J. CHOI: No. (Laughter).  
  
  Q. You probably go to No. 47 in the world, gets you inside the Top-50.   
 K.J. CHOI: Right now? Really?   
  
  Q. Your reaction, leisure?  
 K.J. CHOI: (Cheering).   
  
  Q. Do you play next week?  
 K.J. CHOI: Yeah.   
  
  Q. Were you thinking at all about this spring, how to get in the Masters? Did you think you had much of a chance?  
 K.J. CHOI: You know, when I started out this year, I didn't really think about it that much, but I wanted to -- obviously it was in my mind. But I just said to myself, you know, just take it week-by-week and just try my best. And as the weeks went by and I started playing well, and I felt confident, but to hear that this finish puts me in 47th in the world, it's actually better than what I thought I would be at this point.   
 So definitely exceeded my expectations, and all I can say is I will try my best next week to maintain or better that position.   
  
  Q. Does Michael wear that hat (Kapalua hat) until you win?   
 K.J. CHOI: (Laughing) Yes. Motivation. The sponsor, SBS, one, two, K.J., so we try.   
  
  Q. What is it about the Copperhead Course that seems to fit your style of play or that you like so well about it?  
 K.J. CHOI: This course is very -- it reminds me of courses in Korea, back home in Korea, because of the elevation, the ups and downs. It's important to determine the wind direction, so for me, when I look at the top of the tree lines and I can see where the wind is blowing, the fairways really fit my eye. The greens, for me, it's easier to read.   
 The course is very tight, so every hole you have to put it in the fairway and you have to play your game, because if you are a little bit off, then, you know, you can see what the course does to you. So I feel really comfortable playing here.   
 JOE CHEMYCZ: K.J., thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT