TRANSITIONS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 20, 2010
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Nearly a perfect round of golf today, except for that bogey at 18. Talk about your play today?
 K.J. CHOI: Today is very good on the tee, and second shots on the greens. My focus on the wind direction, what happened was the club was in the tree, and I had 100 percent confidence in the iron shots and the driver. 

 Q. Did you do a lot of scoreboard watching today? Did you realize how close you were to the top?
 K.J. CHOI: Every hole is a focus and every shot, every hole is a new hole. My putting this week gives me more confidence in the tournament. Every shot, my goal is to hit -- my swing is improving, draw, low shot, high cut shot, everything. This gives me more comfort in the tournament.

 Q. The early start tomorrow because of the weather, what are your thoughts tomorrow as you go in a couple of shots off the lead? 
 K.J. CHOI: I pulled and some push, and a little practice, and the ball goes through, fantastic this week. So I'm enjoying Innisbrook and the Transitions Championship. Get some rest today and good practice. 

 Q. Obviously for you a very, very good round, what went well for you on this day to get you back into contention? 
 K.J. CHOI: You know, first two rounds, I had a bad putter, three times I 3-putted. My shots varied from the left and the right on the tee shot. The last days back home in Dallas was windy; so, similar, and I practiced chipping a lot. 
 So I'm making par every time in the last two rounds. And today my focus is on the tee shot, down the middle, and then iron shot, and confident that I can hit it 100 percent. So far, so good. And then today, I have confidence in the tournament, and I'm more rested. So a little practice, I'll feel good tonight.

 Q. You've won here twice. What makes you feel so good here at Innisbrook?
 K.J. CHOI: I look around in the top of the trees, if the wind is blowing, what direction is the wind blowing. So I'm catching it every time, and my type of swing, cut shot, draw shot, and low/high ball is very comfortable. 
 This course, my reading of the greens is very -- looks easier, so my winning every time is on the greens. So I enjoy it, and the wind direction is exactly the same every day, so it makes me comfortable on the golf course.

 Q. Do you feel like you're in very good position for Sunday?
 K.J. CHOI: Yeah, so it's a new day, Sunday. I really want to win, I'll try. So I'll pray a lot tonight. A little rested and good sleep and a new day and I'm fighting tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT