AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 11, 2010
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOEL SCHUCHMANN: K.J. Choi, great job today; 65 here at Pebble Beach. Great conditions. Maybe some opening comments about your first round here today at AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am.  
 K.J. CHOI: (Through translation.) Today the weather was very good. Pebble Beach is one of my favorite courses. The past seven, eight years the weather has been a problem, so I don't think I was able to play as well.   
 But today, you know, with the weather being very good, I think the course was in superb condition. My second shot and putting was very good today. I think that's why I had a good start.   
  
  Q. U.S. Open here in four months. Conditions will be different, drier. As you play, are you sort of putting in your mind shots you'll play for the Open?   
 K.J. CHOI: (Through translation.) Yeah, definitely when I play this course I'm thinking about how I'm gonna hit my drives off the tee, from what position, you know, my second shot will be will give me an advantage when I'm going for the greens.   
 Even during the off-season at home in Dallas, I practiced thinking about, you know, things like that: how I'm gonna hit my second shot into the green in the majors.   
 So, yeah.   
  
  Q. Tomorrow you play at the Newport, NBCC. Have you played it or got any practice rounds on it this week?   
 K.J. CHOI: I did play a practice round earlier this week. From what I remember, the greens weren't that easy. It's a bit tricky. The greens are more towards the ocean. It's very open. It's very scenic, too. There seems to be a lot of slope on the greens.   
 It's very tricky when you actually look at the greens from where you're at, from your second shot position is compared to when you actually walk up there and look at the greens. It's a lot different. It gives you a tricky vision.  
  
  Q. With rain possible tomorrow, does that make it more of an advantage that you had Pebble today and tomorrow you're going to NBCC which holds up the best?   
 K.J. CHOI: You know, the course this year in Monterey, I think when the wind starts kicking in and when it starts to rain, all the courses are gonna be difficult, whether it's Pebble or NBCC.  
 I think what I'll try to do is just keep -- just hope that my body feels the same. Just try to keep my body in the same condition as today and just, you know, concentrate on what I've been practicing all week. I think if that happens, I'll be able to play well.   
  
  Q. ( Question regarding hat. )  
 K.J. CHOI: (Through translation.) I don't know why he -- meaning me -- is trying to wear this hat, but it's definitely one of my objectives to play that course next year, to play the tournament next year.   
 It's a place where I want to go every year, so it's definitely a goal of mine.   
  
  Q. You seem to be playing better to start the year. What happened between now and last year?   
 K.J. CHOI: (Through translation.) The past two years I've been trying to change my body, you know, get into better shape, you know, be more flexible.   
 During that process, I hurt I guess my lower back a little bit, and that kind of decreased my swing speed. My body wasn't really hundred percent the past two years.  
 During the off-season, slowly for the past few months, I've been managing my body better, getting into a better training routine. I think my lower back is a lot better.   
 Because of that, my swing speed has increased and my distance has increased. I think that's really helping my second shot.  
  
  Q. Are you working with anyone training?  
 K.J. CHOI: Simon Webb. Works with Baddeley.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT