AT&T NATIONAL
July 3, 2008
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   K.J. CHOI: No. 6, I hit 3-iron and it plugged and I could save par, but that pin plugged is a tough shot and you have to have a good lie. I hit it high and it looked like it was pin-high. I made good contact, but hit it two feet short. Then I turned around and everybody clapped and I made it.   
 It's a good number, 2-under par today. I wasn't nervous and I enjoyed the round and I had a good group and the crowd was great, good tournament.   
  
  Q. Feeling good being the defending champion and 2-under to start?  
 K.J. CHOI: Yeah, it's good position and a good start in the afternoon round. Today on the first hole, No. 10 in the early morning, it's very wet and the air -- the full irons just make the green. 10 and 11 are very tough to start with. So today, staying patient and a couple under par is very good.  
 My goal today, 2-under par, it's a very good start.   
  
  Q. You obviously like this golf course a lot, don't you?  
 K.J. CHOI: Yes, because Korea in the mountainside, the ball is high in the tee box, and the more down side and the more left-to-rights are easier than bottom to up. This course, very metro design, left-to-right, but the front nine is very difficult with the wind. Sometimes right-to-left and left-to-right, I'm missing, but my putting and chipping and iron play is good, so my practice now will be on the driving.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about No. 6? That seems to be one of the hardest holes playing as a par 4.   
 K.J. CHOI: Yeah, last year, one day on the back side on the tee box today heavy in the air and still in the back there, I'm hitting driver harder and had 222 yards to the pin, so hit a 3-iron, high cut and it plugged in the bunker.   
 So yesterday, I'm practicing the bunker shot and it helped with that hole.   
  
  Q. With Tiger out every week, you have to consider yourself a favorite every week?  
 K.J. CHOI: I don't know about that. PGA TOUR, all of the players are very good. Tiger is a good friend, and every week is tough. Everybody is a good player and very tough competition.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT