BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
March 14, 2008
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  You had a good round and made up for the slow start from yesterday.  Can you start off by sharing what made the difference? 
 K.J. CHOI:  Nothing really went bad today.  It was one of those days where the putts didn't go in.  Missed with the driver and ended up with a double-bogey yesterday.  So I changed to a driver that is stronger against the wind; that helped me a lot. 
 You know, today I had a lot of chances but just could not make the birdies.  So I think I'm still in a good position for tomorrow, so I'm pretty happy. 

 Q.  How was the crowd today? 
 K.J. CHOI:  Today, yeah, the crowd was pretty fair today.  I tried to play well and put my best effort today, but I missed a lot of birdie chances.  Even Chris and Anthony were saying that it's so hard to read the lies on these greens here, the ball looks like it's going to roll to the right, but then it ends up rolling to the left. 
 I'm trying not to be too conscious about the break, the ocean break and the mountain break but it's pretty confusing.  I think that if I get my putting going, it's going to improve. 

 Q.  What driver did you use today? 
 K.J. CHOI:  The driver, basically I use two drivers, the SUMO square and the SUMO2.  The  SUMO2 is the rounder one that I used to win the Sony Open this year.  I used it today.  The SUMO2 is a bit more wind friendly.  It's good against the wind because it penetrates.  It's good for penetration.  I tried a lot of cut shots and yesterday that wasn't working.  I changed the driver today and I'm pretty satisfied with the way I hit it.  

 Q.  You were talking to a few guys about learning from Jack Nicklaus in his book and when you won the Memorial you told Jack about it, can you talk about that, and also writing a book yourself as a mentor? 
 K.J. CHOI:  The book was, you know, people told me that it's "Golf My Way" by Jack Nicklaus, but I honestly don't really remember the exact title; that's what people assume. 
 What it was about was it just taught about the basic fundamentals about golf, how to hit the fade shot, draw shots, the stances, the basic terminology, explanations for good golf in general. 
 So it actually set the basic foundations for me.  I think I was lucky enough to run across that book when I did because you know, obviously it sets a foundation for where I am right now. 
 Regarding whether I have an intention to write a book, yes, I guess in the near future, and I have not really thought about it in detail, but I guess eventually I'll probably find myself writing one. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT