FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 29, 2016
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Keep your eye on this guy over the weekend here at the Farmers Insurance Open, that is K.J. Choi.  Finished second just a couple years ago at this event.  You put together 7 birdies on your way to that nice number on the North Course today.  How good was that performance by you?  
K.J. CHOI: Today is my goal on the tee shot is very important, because on the North Course it's more narrow than South Course.  Very deep rough there.  I was trying hard on the tee shot and also on putting so my status is a little better.  But sometimes inside 15, 20 feet I'm not making very many.   
Today, five or six of them I was able to make that were over 15 foot.  So I'll continue with more confidence.  15 times I play here and two days it's wonderful.   
I heard that tomorrow and the weekend is going to be very windy and rainy, so I hope to improve on the driving and be more stable on the putting.   
 Q.  How pleased are you with your round today?  
K.J. CHOI: Yesterday and today I was hitting a straight ball off the tee, and iron play this week has a very good feel.  Another thing is more putting last week at my home on the week off, because it was too cold in the Dallas area.  So I'm just putting all day, five or six days, more than five or six hours of putting.   
So this week it's more hospitable and the greens are rolling better, my contact is a little better than last year.  I'm very happy with two rounds.  Today, the North Course is not easy.  It looks like it's easy, but there's not many easy shots in there.  The pin positions were very hard and the greens are very firmer than normal.  So 3- or 4-under par is a very good round.  But more better is 9-under par with the total, so I'm very happy with two rounds.   
 Q.  You had a pretty good score on the South Course yesterday, now you get to play the South Course the next two days.  What do you look ahead going into that?  
K.J. CHOI: I know this course.  My issue is more practice with the iron play and the imagination.  So the low cut, the low draw, and the knock down shot, chipping and putting, that's very important.   
If the wind blows a lot, 15, 20 miles an hour it will be about who has more control, more imagination with the putting and short game, who has the more good feelings on that will be winning this week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT