BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2008
K.J. Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  So 1-under today, what are your thoughts? 
 K.J. CHOI:  Today was a relatively slow round.  I guess the double-bogey got me.  The play tended to be a bit slow, so I struggled with it. 
 Also, reading the greens was an issue today, so I think there's a lot of practise for me to do today. 

 Q.  How were the fans out there cheering you on? 
 K.J. CHOI:  There were actually more than we thought and even Anthony Kim and Chris DiMarco told me they were pleasantly surprised, so I think there was a lot of fans out there today. 

 Q.  Were you troubled by the fans? 
 K.J. CHOI:  The only thing that we can do is accept it, and what are you going to do about all of the fans cheering you on?  They are so supportive; I don't think they realise how loud they were.  But I understand it, but also I think the gallery needs to understand that, you know, in order for this tournament to become more internationalised, they are going to have stop from bringing cameras and answering their cell phones. 

 Q.  What happened with the double-bogey? 
 K.J. CHOI:  I think what happened was -- there were two things that happened.  I think two rules could apply.  First of all, it looked like the grass was -- it was cutaway grass. 
 Secondly, it looked like there were a bunch of fire  ants.  I think, from what I'm told, on the International Federation of tours, whenever there is a dangerous situation where it affected play, such as fire ants, then you get a free drop. 
 However, I was told that there were not any fire ants in Jeju, so they could not acknowledge it.  So I had to take a drop.  The drop was pretty good, but it rolled down to a bad spot.  I think the ruling could have gone either way.  You know, the ground didn't allow any loose impediments, so I had to play right from there. 
 I think the whole process took too much time, which affected my play, and I think DiMarco was also affected by it.  You know, there's nothing I can do about that. 

 Q.  Is there a difference between the PGA Tour and European Tour rulings? 
 K.J. CHOI:  There's not much difference between the two tours in ruling.  But what happened I think because the play was being delayed a little bit, normally they warn you first and so that you don't fall too far behind and the group behind can catch up to the group in front. 
 But in this case today, we didn't get any warning.  We got timed right away, and we were timed for about five holes.  I guess that kind of affected us.  I was hurried to play, so I think that's what happened today. 

 Q.  What is the strategy for tomorrow? 
 K.J. CHOI:  Overall, my shots are pretty good.  I think the only thing I struggled was due to the difference of temperature, morning and the evening and from day-to-day.  It affected my swing speed. 
 I think if I hit enough rest today, tomorrow will be a good round.  The other thing was the wind was pretty inconsistent and it blew hard and blew softly.  So I had to deal with that.  I think tomorrow I have a morning tee time, so it's going to be pretty good.  This course, you could shoot 5- , 6-under on any day.  The course is in pretty good condition, so all I've got to do is try my best. 

 Q.  What happened on 7? 
 K.J. CHOI:  I was trying to hit a fade but my body opened up too soon and the ball went too far right. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT