U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2019
Jake Solomon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great round, 67.  How did you feel today?  
JAKE SOLOMON: I felt great.  Second year in a row getting in as an alternate for me, so pretty special and pretty lucky, but my game feels good, I played really well today and struck the ball beautifully.  I probably missed only two or three greens out there, so it was just really good ball striking, made a few putts, had a lot of fun.   
 Q.  Coming in as an alternate how does that change your mindset coming into the tournament?  
JAKE SOLOMON: It doesn't, I just got really lucky and I view it as a blessing and I'm lucky to be out here, but, hey, I mean we are here we might as well try and make some noise.   
 Q.  You started making some noise, so you went through a stretch starting on 15 where you birdied four of five holes.  Take me through that?  
JAKE SOLOMON: So on 15, just hit a nice wedge shot from about 105 in there to about four feet and made that.   
Decided to hit 3-iron on 16 even though it's drivable, I just like having a more full wedge in a that pin.  Hit it to about 12 feet and made birdie there.   
Then missed about a 15-footer on the par-5, 17.   
And then 18 made an about a 25, 30-footer from left of the pin beyond the slope.  So that was pretty cool to see that one go in.  Those don't go in that often.   
But that was a really good stretch and just a combo of good ball striking and a couple putts going in.  So that was fun.   
 Q.  So you're near top the top of the leaderboard how does that change your strategy going into tomorrow on No. 2?  
JAKE SOLOMON: It doesn't change my strategy really just because No. 2, it's a completely different golf course and I have a pretty good game plan from the practice rounds, so just going to try to stick to that and shoot another good score tomorrow hopefully and see where we can finish and hopefully go into match play.  But it's still a long day tomorrow, so got to go out there and play again.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT