CHICK-FIL-A PEACH BOWL: FLORIDA VS MICHIGAN
December 27, 2018
Feleipe Franks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I know a lot of people want to tie the game to Michigan from last year.  But last year, at the end of the season, you go to the Florida State game, right, completely opposite of this year.  Now you're sitting here on New Year's Six bowl game.  What's the difference, your thoughts going into this bowl?  
FELEIPE FRANKS: You can't compare, like -- like you said, to compare like the last year's Michigan game to this year's Michigan game, which I think is totally different.   
We have a totally different coaching staff.  New players have come in and out.  It's a totally different program and team now.   
I think it's just going to be another great experience for us to go out there and play in a big-time game in general.  It's what our players like doing.  We haven't played -- last year, when I played, we didn't play in a big-time bowl game.   
We're excited for it.  We're looking forward to it.  We're talking about it all week, this is what we came here to go.  Like Coach Mullen says, the main goal to make a bowl game fun is to win the game.  You come here, get the experience, like the fun activity and stuff, which we appreciate.  At the same time, what makes all that fun is when you win on Saturday.   
That's what we're looking forward to most is getting the win.  I don't think it has anything to do with last season or anything like that.  It's mainly to do with this year and what our program has been able to accomplish.   
 Q.  You looking forward to spring next year, where you have the second season under the system?  
FELEIPE FRANKS: Yes.   
 Q.  What are you looking to get out of that?  
FELEIPE FRANKS: I think it's hard to work on form stuff, like as a quarterback throughout the course of a season.  That's something that you work on in the off-season.  I'm looking forward to spring, just being under a second season under Coach Mullen, the same system, which I get a chance to grow on that.   
At the same time, to work on my form and keep trying to get better at the position.   
 Q.  What do you mean by working on your form?  
FELEIPE FRANKS: Form.  I mean, there's always something you want to work on.  The greatest always try to work on something, whether it's tightening throwing motion, your quicker feet.  I mean, there's always something to work on.  Tying your feet to a progression.  Just everything under the above.  Something like that.   
 Q.  What do you feel like you've gained from having Coach Mullen here this year?  
FELEIPE FRANKS: What have I gained?  I would say the number one thing would be confidence.  Just confidence in myself, and I think that starts with the players.  I mean, the players, them having trust in me, them always saying, we all got your back, just go out there and play, play free.  That's what Coach Mullen tells me as well.  You're not on a short leash.  You go out and play free, play like you're playing football in your back yard.   
That's what I was able to do and having the guys' trust is the main thing that's helped me.   
It's just been fun.  It's been a roller coaster from last season to this season.  Hopefully, we can keep it going next year, being a second season under his belt, it's just only going to continue to get better.   
 Q.  Without any offense intended to your former coach and administration, but what do you feel like the biggest culture change that's happened this season?  
FELEIPE FRANKS: I think like Scarlett said earlier, just the mentality that Coach Mullen brings to our team.  I think that -- and a lot of people don't think that's something that can change somebody's play.  And I think that's a totally wrong misconception.   
Mentality can change completely how you play.  Coach Mullen always says, one of my favorite quotes:  Being a champion is not a sometimes thing.  It's a way of life.   
It's something he's very true about.  Everything you do, you want to be a champion at, whether it be thumb wrestling, playing a game on Saturday, in the weight room, classroom.  You want to be a champion in everything you do.   
That's the mentality he brought to the program.   
 Q.  He's often said he told you you don't have to look over your shoulder anymore.  
FELEIPE FRANKS: Um-hmm.   
 Q.  (No microphone)?  
FELEIPE FRANKS: When I started playing, I think that when you have bad play -- I mean, it's something that's always in the back of your head.  But, I mean, I think just playing good throughout the course of the season just helped me to build more confidence and confidence each game.  After each win, just building more and more confidence.  That's one of the main things.   
 Q.  How hard was it last year not to be in a bowl game and knowing (no microphone)?  
FELEIPE FRANKS: Yeah, it's not fun.  Like I said in there, they asked me about Christmas and how is it not being with your family.  At the same time, you want to be with your family, but at the same time, I'd have rather been here.  Like instead of, like last year, being home for Christmas, I'd rather be here playing in a big-time bowl game.   
So it's something that we definitely want to get looking forward to every year, playing in a big-time bowl game, missing Christmas.  That's okay.  We miss Christmas to come to a big-time bowl.  Something we want to get used to.  Fine with me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT