WNBA FINALS: MERCURY v SHOCK
September 11, 2007
Paul Westhead
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   KAREN KASE:  Hi, coach, thanks for joining us.  If you want to go ahead and start with an opening statement first. 
 PAUL WESTHEAD:  Well, I thought Detroit played a good game.  They made shots that kind of hurt us in our zone.  So I credit them with some good basketball. 
 For our team, we had what I would say is misfortune.  We had some good looks and just didn't make baskets.  We're a shooting team, so if you're not making shots, it really gets tough on you. 
 But nonetheless, we had a three point shot right at the end that could have tied the game. 
 KAREN KASE:  Questions for coach?  Please raise your hand. 

 Q.  What hurt you more tonight, missing 10 free throws or going 5-31 from three point range? 
 PAUL WESTHEAD:  Pick them.  That's what I was trying to indicate, that we're a shooting team.  And we just didn't make shots that we normally make. 
 I would take the 10 free throws or five or six of those threes.  So either way, I think our inability to make the baskets that we normally make hurt us.  And I think that Detroit making shots.  Katie Smith made some nice threes for them to get them, that got them going in the first half.  It was kind of a double thing. 

 Q.  Did they do anything to knock you out of shooting rhythm? 
 PAUL WESTHEAD:  Yeah, that's a hard one.  I asked my assistants and we'll start breaking down the tapes right away.  Their immediate reaction was no, we had our breaks, we had looks, we had open shots.  We missed threes and missed layups and missed free throws. 

 Q.  You missed those four putbacks or five putbacks, whatever it was, that one series. 
 PAUL WESTHEAD:  Yeah.  Everybody got a turn in that one, I think. 
 (Laughter.) 
 But that's the way we play and that's why we're a good team and sometimes it just doesn't turn productive for you.  But nonetheless, we know we were right there with a shot to get it and not having had our offense firing out and scoring baskets. 

 Q.  I know you missed some shots you normally make, but could you talk about the level of play that these two teams have in the Finals.  Just the basketball itself? 
 PAUL WESTHEAD:  No, I think it's terrific basketball and my opening comment, I really mean to compliment Detroit.  They played very good basketball.  They don't give you anything easy.  They tried to move our zone about as well as they could and they delivered with some shots.  They ultimately made shots.  And that probably was the difference.  Especially early.  They were making shots, they got us down and we were fighting the whole game to get back even. 

 Q.  Do you remember the kind of the first time you started watching the WNBA and how would you compare the play then to now? 
 PAUL WESTHEAD:  I think my first time I saw them was when I came here to have practice. 
 (Laughter.) 
 I'm not a good person to start comparing -- well, what was it?  Like five years ago or that -- that would not be fair -- I would not be fair to say that.  But I think that since I've been here for the two seasons, I'm very impressed with the level of play, not just of this series, but almost every night.  And this season even more than last season.  I think the competition has gotten better. 

 Q.  You wanted, of course, to close it out at home.  You've been able to win one in Detroit, but just talk about how difficult it is to win two because that's what it's going to take to win the title. 
 PAUL WESTHEAD:  Well, as I said to our team, Thursday is not a debate.  We must win.  And we will do everything we can to do that. 
 If we're successful, which is not an easy task, then it's a one game Somewhere, USA, you know, as far as I'm concerned.  If you're able to tie it up, which will be a very difficult task for us, a final game to decide if it does get tied, wherever it is, I would be happy to be in it.  And win it. 

 Q.  How much does the Finals experience that Detroit has play a factor into this game? 
 PAUL WESTHEAD:  Yeah, I -- that's a good question.  I really, I'm sure it's helping them.  But I would not use that on our side to say, well, we seem to have a step back from their experience. 
 I think our players have played very well in all three games.  We just didn't make shots that we normally make tonight.  So I don't think it's something that they're in any way out of step with.  So I think it helps Detroit, but I don't think it's hurt us.  I think we're playing the basketball that we're capable of doing. 
 KAREN KASE:  Thank you very much, coach. 
 PAUL WESTHEAD:  All right.  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT