WNBA FINALS: MERCURY v SHOCK
September 5, 2007
Paul Westhead
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   KAREN KASE:  We'll start with an opening statement from head coach Paul Westhead.  Then we'll open it up for questions.   
 PAUL WESTHEAD:  Well, pretty interesting game.  End of the day, Detroit out played us.  So they did a good job.  We'll do our best to not let that happen again.   
  
  Q.  Did you adjust in the double post?   
 PAUL WESTHEAD:  It was a weird game.  We were a little sluggish getting out on the start.  And we got that settled down and a very quiet second quarter.  And we got that straightened out.  Then the last part of the -- well almost the whole fourth quarter they were getting up inside us, and we tried different things to kind of stop that inside penetration to their bigs and we were unsuccessful in that area.   
 We stayed, we hung in, we, our offense tried to generate enough points to win, but they were too strong inside.   
  
  Q.  Did the sitting because of the foul trouble with Diana Taurasi, did that affect you?   
 PAUL WESTHEAD:  I never like to think that fouls affect us too much.  We play pretty straight up.  I probably even kept her out of the game longer than I would have liked, although Kell and Belinda Snell came in and played pretty good for us.  So I can steal a few extra minutes of D being on the bench.  But I don't think our foul trouble on an individual person was really impacted the game that much.   
  
  Q.  The fact that you sent Olympia Scott in was that one moment that indicated what was going through your mind?   
 PAUL WESTHEAD:  Well, I was just looking for something, some person to kind of just turn around our inside penetration.  So I just thought maybe Olympia might be, with her experience, maybe step up in the lane and cut things off for us.   
  
  Q.  It's been awhile since you dealt with a loss.  Did you have to remind the players of that?  How did that, how to try and respond?   
 PAUL WESTHEAD:  Well the locker room atmosphere was a little bit different.  Yeah, they were kind of down.  Which, it's been awhile.   
 Fortunately, it's a five game series.  So.   
  
  Q.  Were you surprised how much success Detroit did have inside without Ford?   
 PAUL WESTHEAD:  Surprised?  I wouldn't say surprised, I was unhappy.   
 (Laughter.)  Surprised isn't right.  But they did a very good job.  And we didn't respond well enough.  So I think more credit goes to them than to perhaps our breakdown.  They did a nice job.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Thanks a lot, coach.   
 PAUL WESTHEAD:  Okay.  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT