BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 21, 2008
Iain Pyman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   IAIN PYMAN: Played great obviously. I played rubbish the first two rounds and it was a real scrap but I putted well to make the cut and today I got it going and kept going. Holed a nice 25-footer on the last. 
 For the eagle I hit drive seven iron to two feet on sixth. Driver just off the back edge on the 16th and chip to two feet. The tee is up and easily reachable. Driver there.

 Q. Where does that rank among low rounds?
 IAIN PYMAN: I have shot 61s and 62s on the Challenge Tour. But not sure on the main Tour.

 Q. It's an important week for you in your position on the Order of Merit?
 IAIN PYMAN: I am aiming for a top ten as I am not in France yet so that was the plan when I came here. After the first two rounds I never gave up and thought a couple of 66s. That puts me in a good position now. I drove the ball much better and if you drive round here you will have chances. I have been playing well but right down in the putting stats and the last few weeks I have started to roll the ball better and hole some putts. If you don't putt well out here it is a waste of time. 

 Q. Did you reach a low point when you thought you had had enough?
 IAIN PYMAN: I have never given up, never. I changed coach 18 months ago and since that, last year on the Challenge Tour my game was much more consistent and I only missed two cuts all year and then this year I have missed quite a lot of cuts but the game is there and I just have to get it in the hole. Graham Walker is the coach - he teaches Danny Willetts. He lives ten minutes from where I live which is perfect and I do all my work when I am at home. 

 Q. Schedule for the year?
 IAIN PYMAN: I am in most things apart from France next week. But the main Tour now is like the Challenge Tour where you have to have top tens. Coming 40th out here each week you are not going to keep your card unless it is in the PGA or something but for me I need top tens. See if I can do it.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT