PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2012
Mitch Lowe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just going back through your round today, it looked like a little bit of difficulty on the front side but then on the back side you were able to find your composure and play an even par back side.   Take us back through your round and what you saw out there.   
MITCH LOWE:   I actually felt really good out there.   79 is not reflective actually of the way I hit it.   Just a couple yards off on a couple shots led to triple, two really good shots end up in just no‑man's land.   So felt actually really comfortable out there.   There's such a fine line with these guys with the court setup, and they're so good at getting just perfect yardages.   I'm probably not quite that fine.   
   
 Q.   You started to mention the golf course a little bit.   What do you think about the course in general, some of the things that made it difficult or some of the things that might have suited your style of play?  
MITCH LOWE:   Well, I don't know how it was in the morning.   The wind definitely came up and made it difficult.   The way it blew, it wasn't too bad the last four holes, but it was blowing pretty hard.   And then just some of the green complexes, you know, if you miss just a little bit, the ball rolls off and rolls down and get in some weird lies.   But otherwise I thought the golf course played great.   It's in good shape.   The greens were difficult to read, I thought, but it was pretty good.  
   
 Q.   This is your third straight PGA Championship.   Just tell us what it feels like and what it means to be back.   
MITCH LOWE:   Third out of four, three out of the last four years.   A lot more comfortable.   The first year I played at Hazeltine I didn't know how to prepare.   I had never played in a major before, and the nerves got me, and everything was just difficult.   Now I feel comfortable out here.   I mean, you're playing against the world's best players, and most of us teach for a living.   But it's cool to be around the environment and be around these people and hit a couple good shots once in a while.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT