NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CAVALIERS v PISTONS
May 28, 2007
Donyell Marshall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DONYELL MARSHALL:  Any time we've got to take it to a three-game series then I'm sure they'll feel confident because two of the three will be at their place.  But, you know, to come back and tie it up is the most important thing.  It's just as big as last game because I think it changes the whole thing.  I think if you look at the first two games, we feel very confident that we can go up there and play well, so I think it really does change the series a lot. 

 Q.  Can you put into words what it's like to leave this locker room and just go out there and face like 20,000 fans in a lather, all there to see you and your teammates? 
 DONYELL MARSHALL:  Obviously it feels good.  We're giving this crowd and this city something they, right now obviously, haven't seen in 15 years.  Hopefully we're trying to get them somewhere they haven't been, period.  So it feels good to know that we're able to entertain 20,000 in person and millions more across the state of Ohio and actually the country, because we're the only game on at that time.  So it's a good feeling. 

 Q.  Did you guys really feel the magnitude of it, or is it just like any other game to you? 
 DONYELL MARSHALL:  No, I definitely think we felt it.  Like I said on the floor yesterday, we needed that boost, and it was just amazing because a lot of times, especially when you go like to Detroit, we're the only ones cheering for us and stuff.  You know, the only thing is I'm kind of a little disappointed that we -- there was one time in the fourth quarter you could kind of hear the Detroit fans a little bit, and we've got to make sure that we don't hear them at all.  The little bit that they have in there, we've got to make sure we don't hear them at all. 

 Q.  Does fan support translate into points, and if so, how many? 
 DONYELL MARSHALL:  It translates to a lot of points because there's a lot of times where the other team might not be able to hear what play their coach calls, and they're not able to get into their schemes, and they're not able to get into their defensive schemes because they can't hear what the coach has called.  That can sometimes equal into four, five, six, seven points, which can be the difference in the game a lot of times. 

 Q.  You guys are down two games to one, you'd prefer to be up two games to one, but it's a lot better than being down three-zero.  Talk about the mindset. 
 DONYELL MARSHALL:  Like I said, after the first game, second game, we've been a very confident team and we're going to stay that way.  We know the series is not over.  We only can take it one game at a time, and that's what we're going to continue to do.  We got past one game, and now tomorrow we've got another step to go.  We've got to try to win tomorrow's game.  We win tomorrow's game and we make it a three-game series, and we can go on from there. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT