NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CAVALIERS v PISTONS
May 25, 2007
Donyell Marshall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Detroit is coming out really strong in the third quarter, what do you have to do to snap them out of it, or is it just mindset? 
 DONYELL MARSHALL:  I don't know.  You know, I think in a lot of games this year we had a tough time in the third quarter, not coming out of the locker room the right way.  Yesterday we knew it was very important, we came out, we got a good warm-up and things like that.  I think we've just got to somehow keep the same mentality in the second quarter where we're attacking, we were getting to the rim, we had the floor spread and stuff.  Third quarter we tried to make it happen and get to the basket.  You know, they did a good job packing it in, and we just didn't come out with the intensity as we did, the way we had. 

 Q.  Two games that could have gone either way, that you could have won, does it help your confidence knowing you were right there or does it hurt your confidence that you weren't able to finish it? 
 DONYELL MARSHALL:  We're going to stay confident through this series.  You know, don't get me wrong, last year (Inaudible) compared to last year, but we thought we played well, especially in their environment, in a hostile environment. 
 We're going to stay confident until this series is over.  Even if we're down 3-0, we're going to stay confident.  That's just the way we are.  That's the way we've been.  We wouldn't get this far if we weren't confident.  I'm here in the locker room right now and you see all the laughing and joking and smiling, and we're going to stay relaxed.  We're going to stay confident. 

 Q.  (Inaudible). 
 DONYELL MARSHALL:  I think it's more of an opportunity because we're able to set the floor for LeBron and he can get to the basket, and when we play that way I think it's almost pick your poison.  You know, he packs the paint in, he does a good job of finding us and we're able to shoot.  As long as we're making shots, it makes it easier for him.  If he stays at home with us, then it's easier for him to get to the basket.  It's a good thing, but we've still got to be able to take advantage of Drew and Andy, as well. 
 Right now we've got to make sure we're knowing who we go with.  I mean, first game our inside game was going well, the second game we were able to spread the floor.  Right now it's just a way to try to put those things together. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT