THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2017
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How would you assess your round today?
JASON DAY: I felt like I drove it all right.  I gave myself decent opportunities.  Not really -- it was playing tough today, you obviously could see that.  Scores -- I say that, but I think the lead's at 9-under, which is pretty good playing from Louis.  Just trying to think here.  I really have -- the speed of my putts.  Where the pin positions were today, it was just very, very difficult with regards to trying to get the right speed coming up and over the hill, because they were on ledges everywhere.  So it just seemed like they were going up and they needed to go up and they were falling away pretty quick.  So if you don't get the right speed going up over that hill -- you get the right speed it's perfect -- you get too much, then it's six foot past.  And you get not enough and it's six foot short.  So you had to position yourself pretty well on the greens today and unfortunately I didn't really do that.  But to get around at even par 72, good positive signs going into tomorrow.  I know obviously the weekend's going to play tough and hopefully we can bypass this weather and if we can, it should play pretty difficult over the weekend.
Q. It is a mini hill to climb, but at least you know you've gone low at this place before.
JASON DAY: Yeah, you don't really need too much around here.  I'm seven behind the leader, I mean, that's a pretty big margin, but you get off to a good round tomorrow and you just never know what happens on Sunday, especially at a place like this.  It's difficult to try and close around here, but I need a good one tomorrow.
Q. Can they set the golf course up so somebody could go out there and shoot a low number?
JASON DAY: I hope so.
(Laughter.)
That would be nice.  It just really depends on what the weather's going to, how it's going to unfold.  Is it going to blow -- because leading up to tomorrow, leading up to Saturday there's different forecasts and there was 90 percent at one time with thunder storms and 25 mile an hour winds and then there's, it went back down to 30 and then to zero, so it's up in the air.  I have no idea what's going to happen tomorrow, I haven't really checked, but it's all in those guys' hands to see what they actually want to see from the players.
Q. The first two days you could tell the golf course wasn't setup, nobody went out there and shot 63.
JASON DAY: Yeah, well, I think it was two shots harder than in the first round, it was two shots harder than last year, I believe, the average.  It's probably about that the same today, possibly.  It's very difficult.  It's just that some of the changes -- you take 15 for instance, that's, they lengthened that by 20 yards and usually I would be hitting a 2-iron there with a wedge.  Now I'm hitting driver and 9-irons in there.  So they definitely made the golf course a lot tougher.  But then you add the other weather conditions and the firmness of the actual grass and the fairways and the greens, it just makes it tough.  But yeah, I think they can set it up, because there was a lot of difficult pins out there today, I think there's opportunity over the next two days to really kind of catch up to hopefully to the lead.
Q. If you make that putt on 18 is that one of the best birdies of your life?  It was pretty unbelievable the second shot?
JASON DAY: I would like to say yes, but no.  I think I made worse birdies, if there's a --
Q. Worse trouble?
JASON DAY: Yeah, exactly.  Well have you seen them?
Q. I saw you make one at Congressional when you were in the Lexis tent.  You hit it to the front of the green and made it from 60 feet.
JASON DAY: Yeah, that's -- come up here, Ben.  Come sit next to me, you stalker.
(Laughter.)
To be honest, I was talking to Henrik's caddie and we were, I said Adam Scott made double, double here, 17 and 18, trying to do the same thing.  And walking up to that shot I'm like, wow, you know at THE PLAYERS you probably just chip it out to where your first tee shot should be and play on from there.  And I get down there and I'm like, oh, and I see a gap about this big and I'm like, I'll play it through just a little cut.  So, I did exactly what we were just talking about not to do and I did it.
Q. No one knew you hit the shot in the crowd, because they didn't realize it was that far up.  I heard like four people in the crowd go, that's Day on the green?  No one could believe it.
JASON DAY: So, it was quite a simple shot in regards to just hitting a punch 7-iron through the gap.  I spent a lot of time in the trees, so you get kind of good at it when you spend a lot of time there.  Hopefully none of that tomorrow.  That would be nice.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT