AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 21, 2017
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Jason Day with me here.  Jason that was a good putt, not the way you look at the end, you hit a great, aggressive putt trying to make it.  
JASON DAY: Yeah.  I mean the first one in regulation I just pulled a little bit and then the second one I just hit a tad too hard.   
Obviously when you're in position like this you got to go for it.  The second putt just break a little bit from left to right and kind of went right to left.  I had the first putt in regulation and it did a little bit of left to right and just then it went right to left.   
So, overall it was a pretty good week but obviously disappointed didn't get the win.   
 Q.  I know it's not the way you wanted to end.  I know you say disappointing.  This must make you excited for the next stretch, some really good signs.  
JASON DAY: Definitely.  You know what, just shows that things are coming together.  Little unfortunate with that, obviously, thinking how things unfolded but, you know what, I get a week off, I get some rest and get into the Memorial.   
 Q.  With Jason Day.  Clearly not the finish you wanted.  Just take me through the playoff.  
JASON DAY: Yeah.  Getting back to the regulation part, I mean had a good line, pulled it a little bit and unfortunately when you're in the position like that you have to go for it.   
I said the same thing to myself, you know what, if you're going to go, you got to go for it and try to win.  I can't just lag it down there two feet short and -- I keep going back and forth.  Got to go for win.   
Unfortunately, the first putt to the second putt just was a little tad different and just misread it, I guess.  I don't know.   
The first time it went left to right and the second time it went right to left.  So, I played good today.  I feel really good about how things unfolded.  Good things forward.   
 Q.  Obviously the focus will be on the second putt in the playoff but the first putt for a good chunk of the way it looked like it was tracking.  
JASON DAY: Yeah.  Hey, look, I could say that, you know, I'm disappointed by the second putt there, obviously, because it's into the wind.   
I pretty much three-putted the par 5 16th.  I made kind of a poor error on 12 to make bogey.  So, there's definitely a lot of things that led up to this point.  I just need to make sure that I'm doing the right things.   
That first putt was great.  I hit a great putt and just a tad too hard.  If it was probably maybe a foot slower it probably would have turned in there nicely and gone in the hole.  But that's what you got to do if you want to win, you got to take risks.  If you don't take the risks, you'll never win.   
 Q.  Do you take positives away from this?  
JASON DAY: Yeah.  I only had one Top-10 up until this point.  To be able to play the way I did today, I played some good, solid golf.  Obviously, once again, it's a little disappointing but it's not the first tournament I'm going to lose.  I've lost plenty of other ones beforehand and I'll lose plenty more in the future.   
I got to try to get better from this experience and I feel good about my game.  Everything is coming along nicely.  Got to work a little bit more on the overall game of things and I think if that happens, then I should be in pretty good form coming into the Majors.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT