ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 28, 2017
Jason Day
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RICKIE FOWLER: We had a really good time out there.  It was a really fun format.  It really wasn't playing easy out there today.  There were definitely some low scores this morning, and some guys played well this afternoon.  Of course I couldn't get any birdies and help my partner out, but just couldn't get the ball in the hole.  But I mean, like I said, we had a blast out there between the two of us, our caddies.  It was fun being able to work together and be a team where normally you just happen to be in the same group and enjoy each other's company, but to be a part of a team event was special.
Q. Jason, what will you take away from this experience?
JASON DAY: Well, I think the format is a unique format.  Missing the cut is not what we wanted, but walking away from this, I think they're heading in the right direction with regards to a different format that adds more flavor to the PGA TOUR.  You know what, it's a unique situation for us to be able to team up, and I thoroughly enjoyed my two days that I got to spend with Rickie.  Hopefully I'll be back for many more and have a good shot at winning.
Q. Certainly very gusty today.  In what way did that wind challenge you guys?
JASON DAY: Yeah, it kind of gradually got -- it popped up during the middle of the day and gradually got less and less as the day went on.  But any time that there's Bermudagrass and a lot of wind and it's tough to drive, that makes it tough to hit fairways.  If you don't hit fairways it's tough to get near the hole, and when you've got 20, 30 feet, you can't really expect to make too many.  But we played pretty solid, but unfortunately just didn't come up with the birdies, and it was definitely out there.  Looking at the leaderboard this morning, there was a few guys out at 10-under or less.  It was fun.  I'm looking forward to coming back next year.
Q. What was the difficulty for you guys?  You don't really play, practice together, that sort of thing --
JASON DAY: I don't really think it was difficult in that sense.  I think the conditions were tough, and we just didn't really -- we didn't get enough birdie opportunities for ourselves.  Obviously it was playing tough out there, but you really can't expect to hit it to 20, 30 feet all day or even more and hole putts for birdie.  It played very, very difficult with regards to getting it on the fairway, and if you're not on the fairway, then you're coming out of rough or you're coming out of a bunker, and a lot of side breeze.  So you've got to hit it on the right gust.  Once again, we played with Thomas and Daniel.  They played nicely today, but just unfortunately we just didn't hole enough.
Q. Would you be in favor of more things like this?
RICKIE FOWLER: I think the once, twice a year, just because it adds something different.  I think you don't want to have too many, then it doesn't have a unique kind of week feel of it.  But this definitely -- like Jas was talking about earlier over there, this was a step in the right direction for sure.  I think a lot of guys have enjoyed it, and even guys who didn't play well or missed the cut, it was still just something new and different, getting to play with someone that -- for me, him and I have never really had any other event other than the Shark Shootout that we'd be able to play together.  So it was cool.  It was a good time.  Wish we could have played a little better.
Q. What is the level of disappointment in terms of missing the cut here; is it less, is it more --
JASON DAY: It's much less.
RICKIE FOWLER: It's less.
JASON DAY: We're sharing the disappointment together.  (Laughter.)  Yeah, it doesn't feel as bad as you normally would, just because of -- we're out there trying to fight for each other, and we both understand that, and it was a tough one out there.  There wasn't a lot of birdies between the two of us, and --
RICKIE FOWLER: At least I got one.
JASON DAY: But in the best ball, you need to get some momentum going, and unfortunately, like I said earlier, just can't get any birdies when you're hitting them to 30 feet all day.  That's statistically very difficult to do.  But like Rickie said, I think the format itself is a good step in the right direction.  It adds a little bit of flavor to what we already have to the PGA TOUR, and I think it's great to see that it's just not a normal 72-hole stroke-play event, and there's a possibility of guys getting TOUR cards like Ruffels or Brooks Koepka's brother.  There's good possibilities of that happening.  But with that said, it's still disappointing to miss the cut.  But the bright side is I get to go back to my wife and spend some time with her on her birthday on Sunday, so that's a good thing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT