THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2017
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Obviously what you did show is that some of your best is close.  
JASON DAY: Yeah, it's close.  I'm excited about where the state of the game is.  Obviously there's some positive stuff.  It's easy to get your self out of position here, but for the most part I actually played some solid golf.  I was thinking actually 7, 8-under after the second hole and I did give myself the opportunities coming in, I just, unfortunately, had a couple of mistakes.  But that's golf and hopefully I don't make those mistakes over the next three days and actually capitalize on the opportunities that I give myself.   
 Q.  Describe that feeling, because you obviously haven't been in the mix like that for a little while, but you must have felt like it's old hat and you're back in it.  
JASON DAY: Yeah, it kind of felt weird because I haven't really been in the position recently, actually going out there and seeing your name at the top of the leaderboard and stuff like that, which is kind of weird.  But with that being said, you always got to start somewhere and try and build on it and it seems like it was a good start for me.   
 Q.  It's a good number at the end of the day.  I know you were at 5- but 2 it's not that far back?  
JASON DAY: Well, it's pretty hard out there, it's only going to get firmer and faster.  So you just got to try and -- 12-under usually wins around here, so got to try and reach that number and if I can reach that number, great.   
 Q.  That conservative game plan seemed to work basically all around.  Are you going to stick to that tomorrow?  
JASON DAY: Just depends on the weather.  If the weather permits and you get the right winds to do it and all that stuff then you can definitely take that conservative route with a lot of 2-irons.  But it was a perfect wind for me today where I could just get away with it.  And it seems like it's starting to firm up, so hopefully over the next few days -- hopefully we don't get rain on Saturday.  That means I can really let the 2-iron go and get myself in position that way.   
 Q.  What did you hit on 12 off the tee?  
JASON DAY: 4-iron.   
 Q.  So that wasn't, that back right wasn't the pin to go after?  
JASON DAY: No, it's a terrible pin to go after.  It's just that, if you hit it right you got no shot, really, you kind of are coming out and it's a little down slope to that pin.  If they put it back left with that pin location or with that tee location, I think a lot of guys probably would have gone for it.  Because then they could kind of blow it a little bit right and maybe if they're not in the fairway can hit a flop shot over.   
 Q.  You can get up there with a 2-iron, can't you?  
JASON DAY: If it's downwind, yeah, you can get up there with a 2-iron.   
 Q.  What parts of your game felt better today than they have all year?  
JASON DAY: I hit a lot of fairways today, which was good.  Starting to hit it a lot closer and I felt good that the irons are starting to come into proximity-wise.  And then obviously the putting was the only lag there on the back side, which is the front side, I just really didn't capitalize on the stuff I usually make.   
 Q.  10 through 18, that's obviously where -- you like that side.  
JASON DAY: I like that side better, if I wanted to play a side better, that's the side that you want to play better on.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT