MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2017
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. When you have a round like this, do you feel like where was that or are you just glad to get it and get your self back in the mix?
JASON DAY: I think that I feel like I actually I can actually play golf again, which is great, when I play like that. I kind of let things go a little bit in the middle part of my round with not really capitalizing on the opportunities I had. 7 and 8 especially. 
But for the most part, birdieing 12 through 15 was pretty good. 
Hitting that shot up through the trees on 15 was pretty good as well. I didn't have much room there, but I hit a great shot there. 
But, yeah, the course is getting pretty difficult out there. Not with regards to the actual shots itself into the greens, but more so once you get on the greens they're starting to become a lot firmer and faster and you have to have really, really nice touch because pin locations are tough.

Q. Did you think you had an ace at 6?
JASON DAY: Well, when I hit it I watched it and I'm like, that's on a good line. And then I saw it bounce and I'm like, that's got a really good chance. And it ended up being just short. So, I'll take the birdie instead. 
I'm okay, ace or a birdie there is great, because that pin location is quite deft. Because I was saying earlier that there's locations where you kind of have to be a little bit more aggressive to, even though I say that you can't really be overly aggressive here, you have to be aggressive to some of the pin locations, because if you if you're not aggressive enough you might leave yourself 60 feet going back up and over a hill, which obviously is a tough 2‑putt. 

Q. What was it like playing with Jeff and are you aware of his status as kind of a giant slayer in this event?
JASON DAY: Oh, I just didn't want Jeff to beat me, right. I heard that he beat Rory. He said he was nervous on the first tee and I'm like, in my head I'm like, I'm kind of nervous because I don't want to let my marker beat me. 
So, it was kind of neck and neck. I bogeyed the second hole and he parred it and he was, kind of had a little 1‑up lead there for a bit, so I'm glad I ended up carrying out the back side.

Q. Is that why you made him putt out?
JASON DAY: Well, he started picking up early on and I'm like, okay, I didn't know what the thing was and I'm just like, you can do whatever you need to. 

Q. Any wager on the match?
JASON DAY: No wager. 

Q. You said last year taught you that you're never really out of the fight on Sunday at Augusta. Do you feel like that's something you can look forward to tomorrow?
JASON DAY: Yeah, I think that just depending upon how these guys go today. If the lead stays around kind of where it it's at‑‑ I got to shoot a really good one tomorrow, but once again, anything can happen on a Sunday at Augusta. Guys can either melt down or guys can come from behind and win big. So just got to try and do the best job I can and hopefully if I can put everything together give it a good shot. But once again, the first two days kind of put me out of it and today was a good round to get myself kind of back to good form. 

Q. Do you have to, it's unusual for you to, on a Saturday, to be the first one off the tee at a Major. Do you have to readjust your mindset when you come out here to kind of start your round because of that?
JASON DAY: Yeah, a little bit. Usually you're thinking I want to be in the afternoon tee times, but once again, it's an opportunity because you are coming out with greens that are softer, greens that are a little bit slower, and you can kind of take on a few more pin locations than what these guys are going to have here in a bit. So, it's more of an opportunity for me to be able to shoot a good score and ended up shooting a nice score today and hopefully I can get somewhere in the afternoon tomorrow.

Q. Will you watch?
JASON DAY: I'll watch a little bit, but mainly just on my phone. I probably won't watch too much. Just hang out with family.

Q. Did you have to take a marker?
JASON DAY: I had to take a marker. 

Q. Is that the fastest you've played, being first off? 
JASON DAY: John Deere Classic I had the fastest round at John Deere classic. Hour and fifty five. It's quick around there. And they gave me‑‑

Q. Were you going for a record?
JASON DAY: No, they gave me a plaque, a picture saying, "Nothing runs like a Day," so I mean it was good. It was an hour and fifty five I finished and I shot 72. I was pretty proud.

Q. What was sort of the summary of the first two rounds? Your thoughts? That are repeatable. 
JASON DAY: Well, no, my wife over there, she was kind of ready to slap me in the face and because I was so negative with myself. And she was trying to get me, pick me up and give me a good boost. Which she did. Which was a good thing. And that's obviously it's good to have a good wife when you have something like that happen. But, yeah, she's like, you better get it out now before the kids get back. 
(Laughter.)
There was a few words in the bus where it got a little loud to myself in the back of the bedroom, so.

Q. (No Microphone.)
JASON DAY: Yeah, it's better than coming over here and giving a mouthful to you guys. 

Q. How much did your position on the leaderboard affect going for it at 15?
JASON DAY: Well, it's just you got to keep pressing. When you ‑‑ it's kind of momentum ‑‑ yesterday I had a chance to birdie 8. 
There was a chance on 9 yesterday, where, if it went maybe an inch or two inches to the right it would have been down near the hole. 
And then on 10, I hit a shot and I'm standing there thinking, oh, this is a great shot, it's going to go up near the hole. I caught a flier. 
So there was like a four‑shot swing in three holes where, potentially, it could have gone four shots better and I went four shots the other way. 
And momentum is huge in this game. So, I was coming off the back end of three birdies and feeling pretty good and I just, there was a gap, not a very big gap, but I just felt like I was on the good end of the momentum side and I just said that I'm just going to go for it and hit it in that quarter clean out of there and I hit a nice shot through the trees and ended up birdieing. 
So momentum is huge in a game like this, so obviously for me I'm way behind, I need to keep pressing to try and get myself a chance at getting up somewhere near a decent position going into Sunday.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT