ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 26, 2017
Jason Day
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MARK WILLIAMS: We'd like to welcome Jason Day and Rickie Fowler into the interview room at the Zurich Classic of New Orleans and the new format with the team event.  Fellas, it's a pretty intimidating team you guys made.  You're both PLAYERS winners, the last couple of them, and you're obviously both Zurich ambassadors and also both in the top 10 in the world.  Let's just talk about first how you guys got together.  Obviously the Zurich connection is a big part of that.  We'll start with you, Rickie.   
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I think that was a big thing to do with it.  Both Jas and I being with Zurich, the whole opportunity came about, and Zurich came to us asking about potential pairings and who we may like to play with, and at the time Jason was world No. 1, and I figured he was going to have to play in the tournament, as well, and we were looking forward to it.  I said that was kind of my first pick, and I think our agents kind of threw out the ideas and made it happen.  I don't think we actually even -- we didn't even personally talk until the team was official.   
JASON DAY: It just happened out of thin air.   
RICKIE FOWLER: So that was that.  Now we're here.   
MARK WILLIAMS: So there are a number of similarities there.  Given those, as a team do you think it's good to have a lot of similarities in your game or a lot of differences in your game, and what do you think those would be?   
JASON DAY: Well, I think we -- there's not a lot of difference in distance between me and Rickie, which is great.  He's obviously hitting it tremendous right now with how he's playing at the start of this year and coming into this event.  I think it's great to be able to complement each other's games with the same style of game, as well.   
We're both kind of -- we're aggressive at times, but we understand when to back off, but also, at the same time, the similarities between our games hopefully will complement each other when we're out there because we both feel like we putt it pretty well, and our short games are pretty decent.  If we do get in trouble out there, we can kind of save each other with our short games.   
Alternate-shot is a very tough format, let alone alternate-shot in a stroke-play event format.  Looking forward to teaming up with Rickie over the next couple days, and it should be fun.   
MARK WILLIAMS: Rickie, you recently played this format in Jason's home land down under.  Talk about the experience of what differences that format brings to your thoughts on the game.   
RICKIE FOWLER: For me, it's one of my favorite formats, just because I feel like it makes you focus a bit more, brings out the best in your game.  Just because last thing I want to do is put Jas in a bad spot, I want to get dialed in, make sure that I'm committing to the shot and pulling that shot off to try and impress him, have some fun out there, and then give him -- whether it's the easiest approach on a par-4 or around the green on a par-5, having a good look at birdie, it's fun.  I think just because it is alternate-shot doesn't mean that you can't go out and post a really good score.  I mean, working together, you can still go out here -- with the right conditions, 6-, 7-, 8-under is definitely not out of the question.  Best ball is almost in a way a harder format because you're supposed to make birdies, and you're supposed to shoot a low number.   
Being now that World Cup, Jimmy and I played our best golf in alternate-shot and struggled a little bit in best ball where you're supposed to shoot a better score.  But some days if you don't get the momentum going with that, it can be a little tougher.  I'm looking forward to it being the first day alternate-shot.  I feel like with where Jas and I are at with our games, and like he talked about, being fairly similar, we both enjoy playing aggressive when the opportunity comes about but also we can play conservatively, and that's something I feel like you have to manage very well throughout alternate-shot.   
 Q.  Why do you think the game of golf is so international compared to other sports?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Well, it's continued to grow from -- I feel like a lot of it from guys like starting Arnold Palmer, kind of Jack Nicklaus, Gary Player, when golf started to go around the world a bit to having world No. 1 is Greg Norman and the biggest influences of late, Tiger Woods, no question, the time that he spent traveling around the world, the game has gone from a great spot to a place that is pretty incredible right now.  With the amount of young guys in the top say 20 in the world, obviously representing the multiple amount of countries and having guys like Jason at No. 1 to Dustin, Rory, Luke Donald.  We've had a handful of guys from different parts of the world be No. 1.  I think it's just been a progression and starting to see a lot of good golf being played from everywhere around the world now.   
JASON DAY: And I think I'd like to add on top of that, with the Olympics, now golf is in the Olympics, I think a lot of the governments from different countries are going to obviously push very hard to obviously put a lot of dollars behind golf, and that should help start the next generation of golfers, obviously, to come out and compete, men and women, as well, which is great.  I mean, there's -- I think we're heading in the right direction trying to grow the game through the Olympics.  Obviously I didn't end up going to the last one, but I think the step that they're taking is the right direction for golf to be grown in the correct way.   
With that said, me growing up as a kid, I think Tiger Woods came around at the right time, and that's just not only for me as a boy growing up watching Tiger, there was little girls around watching Karrie Webb dominate in Australia and across over here, as well, and that's what's so big in Australia, because of what Tiger did for me and what Adam Scott did for me, what Karrie Webb did for the girls down in Australia, as well.   
Each country has their certain favorite golfer, and it's kind of growing because of that.   
 Q.  We had Rose and Stenson in earlier today, and obviously they've got the Ryder Cup connection.  Knowing you guys will be on opposite sides at Presidents Cup, is it odd or is there a learning curve for you guys that those two guys don't have to face this week?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Well, this is kind of a unique opportunity where Jas and I are able to play together where we're never really going to be able to team up in any other situation, especially on the PGA TOUR or on a worldwide stage.  It's unique.  It's something fun for us.  We definitely enjoy getting to play with each other, whether it's practice rounds, tournament rounds, and then this is something that's completely new.  We're looking forward to it.   
The only time we -- I mean, we still talk quite a bit even during the Presidents Cup.  It's not like we don't like each other.  But that might be the only time that we're not pulling for the other guy to play well is that week.  We want to go out and beat them at the Presidents Cup week, but other than that, we enjoy seeing each other play well.  We enjoy playing together, and no, it's just a cool opportunity to come up that Zurich and the TOUR made this a possibility, and taking advantage of it.  I think you're definitely seeing some interesting teams this week but also some normal teams that you would see like a Rose and Stenson pairing.   
JASON DAY: Yeah, that's going to be interesting to see rose and Stenson play, only because they've played in the Ryder Cups together.  They know how each other's games work, whereas we're kind of in unfamiliar territory with regards to alternate-shot and playing as a team.  But once again, I think we're able to adapt -- hopefully we're able to adapt a little bit quicker and really know what we need to do to get the ball in the hole with the least amount of strokes.   
I think we're both pretty easy-going people with regards to that.  We're just going to try and do the best job we can, get it in the hole, and move to the next, and hopefully at the end of the week, we're in contention somewhere and we can try to finish it off.   
 Q.  You talked about this, the fact that you guys have won the last two PLAYERS, is that sort of a bit telling that you can win on the same course?  
JASON DAY: How have you played here?   
RICKIE FOWLER: I've played okay here.  I think you finished top 5 the last two years --   
JASON DAY: Yeah, I think so.   
RICKIE FOWLER: I had a good pick.   
JASON DAY: Well, that's the thing; I was actually explaining it last night.  We had a team meeting without Rickie there.   
RICKIE FOWLER: My caddie was there.   
JASON DAY: He was busy with his beautiful girlfriend, which is understandable.  Yeah, so I made sure that Joe, his caddie, was there.  We went over some of the stats, and I think what we came across -- he's pretty easy.  If I say, hey, we're going to go even -- I'm going to go evens and you're going to go odds, he'll go, yeah.  And it could be totally the wrong setup for him.  And if I go the opposite and go the other way, he'd go, yeah, okay, that's fine.  Like he's so easy; know what I mean?  So that's a big thing with us is that once again, it's not so much about going out there and going, I feel sorry that I put you in the trees there, man, or I feel sorry for missing that putt.  We know we're going out there and trying our best, and the preparation for us is different.  You know, it's -- I come in and I practice.  Rickie does his thing to make him feel ready, and it's worked for him this year.  He's played tremendous golf, and I'm very, very happy to have him as a teammate, and he's going to be a great attribute to our team because of how good a player he is.   
 Q.  Just curious how you guys feel about playing together in the pro-am as opposed to playing as individuals.  I didn't know if there was discussion about that going forward where you get a chance to have your teammate with you in the pro-am.  
JASON DAY: I don't know how it will work.  How would the format work if -- but that would be good because then I could go missing for nine holes and he could do the work for me.  But yeah, I think that would be a good setup because you really don't get to practice too much, I mean, other than you come in either Monday or Tuesday -- well, Monday they have the pro-am, but Tuesday is really the only round that you get to go out and play, and sometimes you can't get here on time.  The only time you can get here is either Tuesday night and you have to come in and play the pro-am.  So I think that is a good way of actually making the team part -- implementing that into the pro-am, which would be nice.  But let's not bite off too much.  We got the format, let's just -- small steps from here.   
 Q.  Jason, how much sort of match play or alternate-shot are you kind of used to?  
JASON DAY: How much alternate-shot?   
 Q.  Other than obviously Presidents Cup.  
JASON DAY: Yeah, I play alternate-shot once every two years.  That's as much as I can give you.   
 Q.  And then would you like to sort of see more different formats in different events?  
JASON DAY: What do you think, Rick?  I kind of -- this is a unique situation for us to be able to team up and play.  I think as the players, it's been well-received amongst the players because there's a lot of good-quality players here this week.  Obviously this is a good indication of what the players think because we're so used to having a 72-hole stroke-play event, and it's just kind of the norm is having that, and we have the Match Play and we have the Presidents Cup and the Ryder Cup every other year.  There are some sort of fun events in the off-season, but to be able to have a PGA TOUR event with the benefits of if you win, you get the exemptions and the FedExCup points, that's pretty unique.  But I don't know any other format.   
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I'm not sure.  I think a lot of guys that play somewhat of a certain schedule aren't necessarily looking to extend that schedule by any means, especially with all the opportunities that are out there.  In a way you're almost looking to cut down and find the off time and get some sort of an off-season in the fall, even though now there is no off-season, so you're trying to pick and choose where you're playing, and in a way, we don't need any -- we potentially don't need any more playing opportunities, but having those options to play in some different formats and this being a fun change, no, I'm looking forward to it.  It'll be interesting to see how excited the guys are after the week.  I know the guys going into it, it's been well-received.  Guys are excited to play, and just hoping it goes smoothly.   
I know Jimmy and I had a blast down at the World Cup, which was the same format.  So I think you're going to see guys have a lot of fun out there, being able to feed off each other, talk trash, give each other a hard time, where normally I might not give him too much in a stroke-play event just because we're competing against each other, but I don't know, feel free.  You can lay it on me out there.   
JASON DAY: That's all right, I will.  I think there's a lot of benefit to a format like this because there's no World Ranking points, is there?  So if I'm looking at it based on that, it counts towards PGA TOUR -- the FedExCup, counts towards exemptions.  The first-place money is great, and it doesn't add anything to your divisor World Ranking wise.  It's an added event without the -- there's really no down side to it because you don't add the event to your divisor, and say, for instance, you do come in here and play not so great or whatever it is, that doesn't go towards your World Ranking and doesn't shoot you down.   
It's actually quite a unique -- it actually helps a lot of us out there with regards to this is a great week -- it's a relaxing week, but also you want to go out there and try and compete and win.  But there's all the benefits that come along with winning, as well.   
 Q.  It seems like there's more momentum now than ever before to try something new on the PGA TOUR.  I'm curious if you believe that a team event, certainly an official team event on the PGA TOUR, is kind of a long time coming?  
RICKIE FOWLER: I definitely don't think it's out of the possibility.  It's something that's been done in the past.  You look at some of Sam Snead's official wins were team events, and this is kind of in a way a trial run to see how the tournament goes, see how the players react to it, I guess, during the tournament, after the tournament.  But so far, everything has been great.  The excitement about it, guys getting to be in a different format, talking about it, it is an official win.  You're getting the FedExCup points for it, and it creates some cool opportunities for some teams that -- like you've got Brooks Koepka playing with his brother, who's a great player, and it's a time that guys like that potentially have an opportunity to go do something special, and it could make an impact on his life.  And then with us, getting to play a two-man team event together where we wouldn't be able to play this kind of pairing anywhere else.  So we'll see.  I definitely think that this week will be a big indication to see what happens in the future with team events.   
 Q.  Some of the other players have mentioned the ball being a factor this week, and I think the general layman or sports fan thinks all balls are the same and they'd be surprised by that.  Do you all think it's a factor, and if so, why, playing each other's ball?  
RICKIE FOWLER: It is.  I mean, guys play different golf balls out here, obviously, different makes, and then within makes there's different balls in there, and there's some significant differences.  I know for myself in alternate-shot, and we haven't talked too much about what the ball strategy is, but for the most part, a lot of times from when I played before, it's been you drive your partner's ball.  That way they're playing their ball for the approach shot.  Par-3s, you play your own ball.  Par-5s, same thing.  I drive my partner's ball, and he gets to hit his -- whether it's lay-up or approach shot with his own ball that he's used to.   
On the greens, things don't matter too much.  You still get different sounds and different feels, but the biggest thing is when you're trying to control numbers, long irons, mid irons, wedges, so the more I'm able to drive his ball and put it in position where he's in a comfortable, normal situation that he's used to, that's usually the easiest way.   
JASON DAY: Yeah, Rickie plays a ball that spins less and goes a little lower than me ball, so that adjustment obviously is needed out there.  So being able to practice with it and vice versa, him being able to practice with my ball is crucial knowing exactly how it's going to come out in certain wind conditions, certain temperatures, what the feel is like when you're pumped and not under the pump.  It is crucial, and understanding how those come into play comes solely on the prep.   
But yeah, I know we'll discuss it, and I've -- like you said, the ball is a ball, but there's slight differences in the actual flights and spins of golf balls.  But I think I've done enough prep to be able to understand his characteristics of his golf ball moving forward.   
 Q.  A bit of an off the beaten path question.  Some of us in the media center yesterday got treated to Anzac cookies, so I was wondering if you were able to observe your Memorial Day yesterday, and does your training regimen allow for a cookie?  
JASON DAY: Yeah, it does allow for a cookie.  You know, I wasn't able to -- someone came up to me yesterday and was saying -- there we go, thank you very much.  I like these with ice cream.  I don't know about you, Mark.   
MARK WILLIAMS: Just plain.   
JASON DAY: Yeah, you're a bit of a plain Jane person though, aren't you.  Yes, it was -- I talked to someone, they said, yeah, you've got to try some.  So I'm trying them right now as we speak, and I might even let Rickie --   
RICKIE FOWLER: I think you should.   
JASON DAY: Well, you should try my culture since we're partners.  A little taste of Australia there for you.  Pretty good.   
RICKIE FOWLER: That's nice.   
JASON DAY: They're hard, mate.   
RICKIE FOWLER: They're good.  They're chewy.   
 Q.  You guys do a nice job of paying attention to the world of golf around you, and yesterday R&A and the USGA came out with the new rulings and provisions which address the Anna Nordqvist and Lexi Thompson rules deals.  One thing not addressed is that people can still call in or email in infractions on you guys watching a telecast somewhere across the world.  Two of the world's top players, just curious how strong your thoughts are on that.  
JASON DAY: Is there another sport where you can call in and call an infraction on?   
 Q.  I don't believe so.  
JASON DAY: Yeah, I think that's a joke.  Look, we're not trying -- like I mean, you're not out there trying to break the rules, and sometimes you break the rules, and sometimes a guy at 9:00 until the morning may break a rule and then a guy at 2:00 is on TV because of the position he is and unfortunately breaks a rule not trying to better himself but just by pure accident sometimes.  We're not out there trying to do it.  I mean, Lexi's ball moved this far, and the putt was this long.  I think that's -- and once again, that was -- it was a signed scorecard, and she was playing the next day.  It should have been done and dusted once the scorecard was signed.   
You know, the integrity of the game comes down to the actual player itself.  You actually end up having to live with that if you do end up understanding that you've broken a rule, there's an infraction, and you go ahead and not report it yourself.  There's been plenty of times where I've moved the ball and I've called a rules official and called a penalty, and that's probably the same as Rickie and same as everyone else out there.  We're not trying to better ourselves by that, but I see -- I watch sports all the time, watch basketball, watch football, watch hockey.  There's plenty of rules infractions going on that the refs do or don't call, and unfortunately we're just in an unfortunate situation where guys in the morning who aren't on TV sometimes accidentally break rules, and then guys on TV, 2:00 in the afternoon do and pay the ultimate price, and the last person to do that was Lexi.  And I think that's a really -- I think that's a really unfair thing.   
Well, like I said, rules are rules, and I understand that.  But for little things like that where you're not trying to do something, I think that's a little full on.  But I mean, that's just my opinion and my opinion can mean absolutely nothing sometimes.  Just saying.   
RICKIE FOWLER: I'll second it.  Your opinion is good on this one.  You're not going to find another TOUR player that's not going to agree with us.  I'm sure, yeah, there's been guys that have tried to better their situation, and like Jas said, they have --   
JASON DAY: But the 99 percent, it's like anything.   
RICKIE FOWLER: But the guys, the women that play, you play for the love of the game, the integrity.  You're not trying to better your situation.  You're not trying to better your lie.  You have a foot-and-a-half putt.  You could basically go ahead and kick that in.  Yeah, it's just unfortunate when you get in different situations and how things can play out, and it's unfortunate that it's kind of decided and there's an outcome switch.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT