WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 22, 2017
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHRIS REIMER: You had some words you wanted to share.
JASON DAY: Yeah, obviously it's not an excuse or anything like that.  My back is fine.  I'm a hundred percent healthy.  Everything is totally fine.
It's hard to talk right now.
CHRIS REIMER: Do you need a minute?
JASON DAY: My mom has been here for a while.  And she has lung cancer.  At the start of the year she was diagnosed with 12 months to live -- this is so hard.  The diagnosis is much better being over here.
She's going in for surgery this Friday and it's really hard to even comprehend being on the golf course right now because of what she's gone through.
She had a test done in Australia, and the doc said she was terminal and only had 12 months to live.  I'm glad I brought her over here.  And it's been really hard to play golf lately in this year.
It's been very, very emotional, as you can tell.  I've already gone through it once with my dad.  And I know how it feels.  And it's hard enough to see another one go through it, as well.
So as of now I'm going to try to be back there with my mom for surgery and make sure everything goes right with her.
I mean, once again it's been a very, very hard time for me to even be thinking about playing golf.  And emotionally it's been wearing on me for a while.  And I know my mom says not to let it get to me, but it really has.
So I just need some time away with her to make sure that everything goes well because this has been very, very tough for me.  So I'm going to do my best and try and be there the best I can for her because she is the reason that I'm playing golf today.  And family is first and it's just -- it's just a hard time.
I didn't want to leave you guys out in the dust and try and speculate what was going on with me and my game and how I felt, if it was my back or anything.  But I just wanted to make sure and get it out there that this is the reason why I've obviously pulled out this week because of my mom going for surgery to try and get rid of this mass that's in her lungs, which is a three or four centimeter mass, which is a pretty large mass in her lungs.
I'm hoping for a speedy recovery for her, and we can get this behind us and she can live a long, long life.
CHRIS REIMER: Appreciate you taking the time.  It's difficult.  Prayers are with you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT