MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2017
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JASON DAY: I don't think so. I couldn't do it, no. You're just so used to playing competitively against these guys and trying to beat them, and it's just very, very difficult. I mean I could‑‑ obviously come back and hit the first opening tee shot and like that. But it would be very, very difficult to come back and know that you're better than what you're actually shooting and you've done that before, but you just physically or you just can't do it because you don't put the time in anymore. I think that would be tough. And I know that would be tough on Tiger, as well, if he had to do that.   
   
 Q. (Inaudible.)  
JASON DAY: If you're a degree off, it can do exactly what it did. A degree off is one second in the clock of your watch. And that's how delicate it is.  
I was playing pretty decent up to that point. Obviously I made a mistake there. And then getting in the rough on 13, had 4‑iron in my hand. I felt good about the number and everything like that. But you've got to understand that when you're in the rough here the ball likes to sit up. So it doesn't like to really kind of sit down. And you have to really‑‑ if you don't contact it, you hit it on the top of the face. And when you're hitting it and missing the sweet shot, it just doesn't come out as far and that's why it went into the water. Other than that it was a good swing. I knew that it just didn't quite have enough. Overall it's decent.   
   
 Q. When you change your ball flight, do you change anything when you're in the wind or do you swing easier?  
JASON DAY: No, players are playing their shots in wind conditions, in tough conditions, we understand that certain shots we need to hit low. And usually guys will have a high, medium and kind of a low‑‑ a high, medium and low shot that they're playing. They know exactly how low‑‑ how far the low shot goes.   
So it's really about just trying to get the calculation right, make sure you hit it on the right breeze. Because it was a westerly wind today, but in amongst these trees it starts to swirl a little bit and the hardest thing is to really commit to that and hit the shot.   
   
 Q. Did you have to start and stop a couple of times?  
JASON DAY: Everyone did. Yeah, everyone did. Brandt, I think it took maybe five minutes to hit the shot, something like that, like on the 12th hole. But‑‑ which is understandable. I didn't even think he was going to pull the trigger. He turned around and said, "Does anyone else want to hit this shot?" That's the feeling. He stood up there, and obviously he was so uncomfortable with the shot, he ended up making a good par in the end and started making me nervous, because I was going to hit next.   
Justin hit it on the green with a 7‑iron. He had a 7‑iron out. And I had a 7‑iron. So some of those things you've just got to get in there and hit it.   
   
 Q. Can you talk about what you learned from today?  
JASON DAY: Yeah, just the only real thing you can do is try to go out and have more birdies and than bogeys. There's really nothing that you can do. But I think I'm playing some decent golf. I've just got to get myself a little bit closer to the hole.   
   
 Q. How do you feel given that it was a really tough day?  
JASON DAY: It's not bad. Obviously‑‑ I don't know what the lead is, but hopefully is stays around 3 or less at the end of the day. With that being said, if I get a good one going tomorrow maybe a couple under tomorrow, it shoots you right around the lead. Obviously determining on what the other guys do.  
So with that said, we're going to have great weather on the weekend, just have to go on through and try and make your birdies and stuff on the weekend.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT