TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 22, 2016
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Jason, how are you feeling?
JASON DAY: I feel good.  I mean, I feel okay.  There was a couple of drives out there where the back -- you know, just off the top of the transition, felt a bit of a sharp pain in my back.  That's why some of the drives went a little bit -- but, you know, the ones that didn't, I drove it pretty good.
Still not quite there with the driver, but it's -- I feel like it's turning.  I'm starting to hit -- see the shot go right to left and starting to hit some of the shots and going those high, big draws, which is what I like to see.  The putter was nice today.  It was on, which is good.
To be able to shoot 3 under in some of the positions that I was in, get up and down where I was getting up and down from, I'm pretty pleased with.  But, obviously, first day, trying to get yourself in position by Sunday.
Q. In a lot of instances like this, it isn't the pain that gets you, it's the fear of when it might come.
JASON DAY: Well, it's not that so much.  Like I know when it's there, and it may come, but it's just, when I get to the top of the swing, as soon as my hips start to unfold and then there's that bit of separation, it just crunches down.  It just hurts.  I mean, it is what it is.
In a perfect world, I would love to have two weeks off where I can just really try to settle the back down.  It's not 100 percent, but who is 100 percent out here that's playing right now?  A lot of guys are playing with some sort of injury.  I'm just a little worse off than most guys.  But it's not an excuse.  I've still got to play the golf that needs to be played to try and beat these guys.  Unfortunately, they're not going to be sympathetic to me.  They're not going to let me go, You know what, your back is sore.  We'll give you a couple of shots on the back side.  It's not going to be like that.  I've still got to beat the guys.
Q. [ No microphone ]?
JASON DAY: Do I sneak a peek?  Yeah, I do.  You always have to know where you stand.  You have to understand what you need to do out on the golf course to get yourself in front of these guys.
For me, personally, it's very easy.  I've just got to win.  That's the main goal this week is to win, like a win that'll wrap up the FedExCup and also hopefully maybe wrap up the player of the year as well.  So it's kind of a double bonus for me if I could do that.
Obviously, it's the first day.  I can't get too far ahead of myself.  I've got to take it a day at a time.  Get some good rest tonight and get into it tomorrow.
Q. With the course today, were you surprised the score wasn't lower?
JASON DAY: The course is actually quite tough.  They've narrowed a lot of the fairways -- not a lot of the fairways, some of the fairways.  Where you're driving it is a lot narrower now, and then the rough is very healthy.  So as soon as you get it in the rough, it falls straight down to the bottom, and it's really difficult to judge if it's going to come out like a flier or it's going to come out dead.
Bermuda grass is really tough from the fairway but it's also really difficult around the green.  I'm not surprised.  Once again, there's only 30 guys here.  I think, if it was a full field, you'd probably see 6, 7, 8 under maybe.  Right now you're just trying to do the best job you can, and 4 under is right there.  So I'm happy with 3 under.  I've just got to keep chipping away at it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT