THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
July 17, 2020
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Can we get some opening comments on your round?  Started not so well but have obviously come on very strong.
JASON DAY:   Yeah, I bogeyed 2 and 3 yesterday.  It's a pain in the butt.  I mean, the greens were pretty crazy fast.  I think the bogey on 2, I caught a little bit of a flier out of the right-side rough that bounced 23 yards over the back.  Just goes to show the difference between last week and this week and how they wanted to toughen the golf course up a little bit, and they've done a great job.  Fingers crossed we can have some good weather on the weekend so the course gets a little bit tougher.  But overall very happy with kind of sticking it out and shooting the score I shot today.
Q. Adjusting to that type of golf that you've usually done pretty well on, the tougher conditions, happened pretty early today after those mistakes, though?
JASON DAY:   Yeah, once again, I kind of touched on it lightly.  I think it was last week or the week before, or I can't remember where it was, but I was just trying to change the way my attitude was out there and just kind of the outlook and know that I'm in a very blessed place to be able to go out and play golf right now when a lot of people are stuck at home, especially the athletes out there that are just starting to ramp up again, but for us to have the protocols in place that the TOUR has put in place for us to be able to come out and play again.  We definitely miss the fans, so we're looking forward to having the fans back, but until then, we're just happy to play golf, and that's kind of -- after playing the first four to five weeks, whatever it was, with kind of below-average attitude, I needed to change something in regards to that, and I feel like things are moving forward, which is nice.
Q. And that attitude adjustment I'm guessing helped you stick it out when you were a big ginger yesterday with your back?
JASON DAY:   Yeah, I mean, this is my sixth week in a row, so kind of tweaked something a little bit on Tuesday.  I was sore yesterday, sore today.  I'll just get some work done and hopefully just kind of keep grinding through it.  It's just a little bump in the road I've just got to get through.
Q. It would be kind of ironic if you were to win your home event without the home people here to support you.
JASON DAY:   Well, it might be -- that's probably the only way I'll win around here maybe.  No, it would be nice to be able to win with home fans.  I think I get a lot of support when I'm here because they know that I live in Columbus now.  Like I said before, we miss the fans dearly.  I think that's one thing why you see such good play right now is because there's hardly any fans and there's not that added pressure of that fan base.  But overall we miss them.
Q. Last week you talked about how much you're enjoying the game right now.  How much can that attitude really help you going into this weekend, trying to win this event?
JASON DAY:   Yeah, I mean, everyone has a free year, so it was one of those things where, you know what, I came out of quarantine and I didn't play the greatest.  I played solid but I just didn't really hole a lot of putts.  I feel like I kind of worked on my putting a lot, especially in quarantine and coming out of it, and I've had six months to a year of poor putting.  It showed in my stats.  But I feel like I've hopefully worked something out here because I feel like I'm putting a lot better.
Yeah, but overall, I'm happy to be here.  It's nice to be out playing golf.  I just touched on it just before, for us to be able to play golf out here and not be stuck inside, it's a true testament to what Jay and the team at the PGA TOUR has done.
Q. How much more difficult do you think this golf course is going to get the next two days, especially with what's going to go on here Monday?
JASON DAY:   Yeah, I don't know what the weather is going to do, but if we have 90-degree weather and sunny -- depends on the wind, but yeah, the ball started bouncing a lot today, so it's going to be a bit of a grind out there over the next two days, and that's the kind of golf that I like playing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT