THE BARCLAYS
August 28, 2016
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It was an up-and-down round, second projected going into Deutsche Bank.  What do you need to get back to the top of the list?
JASON DAY: Find the golf course.  This week, I don't think there was a tee shot where I felt comfortable over to be honest.  Every time I was standing over the ball, I couldn't feel like it was going to be a good shot.  I was fighting a left shot and I was fighting a right shot.
With everything done, stats-wise, I didn't give myself an opportunity off the tee.  If I give myself more opportunities to the green, if I'm in the fairways, might have had a good chance.  Even though I did hit a lot of greens today, I didn't hit them close enough.
Q. Patrick Reed has the same putt you had at 15.  Take us through that.
JASON DAY: Yeah, you know what, it reminds me of the ninth hole at Augusta, if you're way on the right side and the pin is on the front left.  There's a good little spot where if you can just get it to the edge, it goes up-and-down a little bit and gets to the edge and can roll back down.  It's one of those putts where you really try to get it down there somewhere around the hole.  Fortunate enough for me, the last year and a half, I've holed a good bunch of those big ones.  It's a tough one.  The biggest putt is holes 16 and 17, because after the first 15, those two holes are pretty slow.  This is a big one for him.
Q. You're not 100 percent pleased with the defense of your title, but if you could reflect back, what is the one hole as you look back that you would like to play over this week?
JASON DAY: Probably 4.  I hit it down there left a couple times and didn't give myself the opportunity there.  Bogeying that is a very big disappointment today.  There was actually a lot of holes.  9 is one, as well:  I doubled that one day and I bogeyed that again yesterday.
But there's a lot of holes out here that you can go, oh, I wish I could have them back.  Unfortunately it's done but the biggest thing is to look back on what I did right but then what do I need to improve.  Obviously if I can get the driver straightened out, hopefully give myself more opportunities on the greens.
Q. You had three good opportunities from ten, 12 feet and then all of the sudden at 15, that one goes.
JASON DAY: Yeah, that's exactly what I said.  I said, Col, this is so funny, I have an awesome chance on 13 and 14, very easy straight putts, miss those and all of a sudden I drop a 71-footer on the hardest putt going down the hill.
It is a strange game.  It's funny, I could be hitting it terrible this week, and hitting it great next week and not putting so great.  So just roll with it and try to work on it as best you can.
Q. The ovation you got walking up 18 had to feel good?
JASON DAY: I love playing in front of the New York crowds.  It's really cool to see how much they embrace the golf here.  They really do enjoy themselves here, very rowdy.  A lot of things have been said out there over the last four days, but it's pretty special when you go up on the green and you get a nice ovation like that.
Q. How would you describe it out there today for you?
JASON DAY: Pretty similar to the rest of the week.  I just didn't drive it as good.  There was one snap-hook, a couple snap-hooks I would say.  Yeah, I was just struggling a little bit with the driver.
It's not a swing issue.  It's not a mental issue.  It's a little bit of a syncing problem with my body.  I feel like the hips are going too fast and it stops, and then my hands flip over.  So just kind of work on that for next week but working more so on the commitment, trying to get into a routine on the range and try and commit to a shot.  I missed too many fairways this week.  With that said, I ground it out and hopefully I stay where I'm at.
Q. Take me through 15, shot of the week.
JASON DAY: You know, what funny, you stand up there, and you see an easy birdie on 13 and you miss a nice easy birdie putt on 14 and all of a sudden you drop a 71-footer down the hill.  It's just a strange game, it really is.  It's really funny, because you can go from such a high to a low the next hole and go from a low to a high.  It's managing the ego and managing what you can possibly do on the golf course to get yourself into contention.
I felt like I did a good job, with not having the best stuff off the tee, getting it on to the greens and holing the putts that I could and finishing where I did was good.
If I can just straighten out that driver, which I don't think is an issue, because I'm just waiting for the reps.  I've been practicing pretty solid for the last two weeks before this week.  Hopefully with time the reps catch up with me and I can drive it much better next week.  I did a lot of work on my driving.
I feel good.  I feel like I'm putting good.  My chipping, my touch feels really nice.  Give myself some more opportunities from the fairways, and I feel like I've got a good chance next week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT