RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 24, 2016
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  That the round you were looking for?  
JASON DAY: Yeah, I played good today.  Hit a lot good-quality shots.  18 was a little iffy with the drive there but for the most part there, played good.  Hit a lot of good quality shots out there.  So I felt much better.   
Only thing I need to work out is the putting.  I didn't putt well this week.  Just struggling with the lines.  I think it was a combination of last week rolling into this week where you've got 9.5 on the Stimp and you're used to seeing one kind of line last week, and you come here and it's anywhere between 12 and 13 the line changes.   
Should have that worked out before the start of next week hopefully.  It was a good confidence builder going into next week.  I feel good about my game.   
 Q.  You can expect the greens at Baltusrol to be a little faster than this week.  
JASON DAY: Well, it will be, with regards to the slope, I think they are going to put a lot of water down, though, because I think we are expecting 90-plus degree weather, and they obviously don't want to lose those greens.  I'm assuming that they are on top of it.  I haven't played the course yet, so I couldn't tell you how -- from what I'm guessing, I know it's going to be fast.   
 Q.  Last year, you used this as a jumping off point to start the second half of the season.  Do you feel confident you can do that again?  
JASON DAY: I think so.  I felt really good.  Like the one concerning thing with me over the last few times that I've played, I wasn't quite driving it the way that I wanted to.  Even though I didn't hit a lot of fairways this week, I actually hit it solid off the face.  Hit a lot of good shots, kind of exactly what I wanted to do, close enough.  That has given me, especially over the last two days, has given me a lot of confidence going into next week.   
I'm hoping that once I get in there, get a rest on Monday, start practicing Tuesday, Wednesday, I should be good to go.   
 Q.  You talk about defending four in the next six weeks; are you really looking at it as defending or trying to win?  
JASON DAY: Yeah, I've got to try and win.  Defending's great, but I won it last year.  I'd love to do it again this year.  That's all I can focus on.  I had another fun week here in Canada.  Unfortunately just didn't have my best stuff.  It happens.  You can't play well all the time.   
Just got to kind of rest up and get ready for next week.  I never really look at it as defending.  I always want to try and win it again, and that's the mentality going into it.   
 Q.  A ton of birdies out there.  Do you expect this is going to be a fireworks finish here?  
JASON DAY: Yes and no.  I think it's obviously a different wind.  It's an easterly.  But the wind is down and the greens are terrific.  The greens staff -- at the start of the week, I thought they were going to lose them, especially with how hot it has been and how much rain you guys haven't had in the last eight weeks.  They have actually done a fantastic job with keeping the greens receptive enough and actually on a pretty smooth surface.   
So I think the guys will have some opportunities out there.  You can take them, because coming home, there's a lot of key holes.  13, you get there on the par 5, and even 14, 15, they are all in perfect birdie locations.  There should be some fireworks coming home.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT