RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 22, 2016
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Heck of a recovery to make the weekend here.  What was your feeling as you were coming down the stretch?  
JASON DAY: Not much, actually.  The day was pretty tough in itself and then I really didn't have anything going well.  Off the tee was terrible.  Hitting the greens were terrible.  Chipping was terrible and putting was terrible.  So put all that together, you shoot 4-over.   
 Q.  You were first in the TOUR between ten to 15 feet in putting.  You had some really nice putts in the back, but in the middle of your round, what was going on with your putting?  
JASON DAY: I don't know.  It's okay to have an off-week.  You know what, I didn't have the greatest week with the putter last week, as well.  Kind of spilt over to this week.   
I think the quick change from 9.5 on the Stimp last week and we're coming over here and we're putting on some pretty firm, fast greens, yeah, that kind of has got my speed a little off.  When your speed is off, it's really hard to hit your line and trust it.  From there, it's just a bit of a trust issue.   
Yeah, I'm not too worried about it at all.  Just looking forward to having a good weekend.   
 Q.  Do you go out tomorrow and just try to throw up a great number see where it falls?  
JASON DAY: Yeah, I mean, you can try to be aggressive around here, but yeah, I'm just going to go out there and try and enjoy myself.  Try and work on things that need to be worked on for the PGA.   
Obviously I'm 1-over, and 7-under is the lead, so eight shots back.  If we're going to have wind conditions like this and the course is tough, they are not going to move too far.  I've just got to play really, really good golf over the weekend to even have a sniff at catching them.  I've just got to try and enjoy myself first more so than what I have the last two days.   
 Q.  Satisfaction, though, making a birdie on the last hole, given the conditions?  
JASON DAY: Yeah, I didn't even read the putt, which was nice.  I think I was just more peeved with how I played over the last two days; that it just hasn't been quite as sharp.   
Yeah, it was quite nice to hole that birdie putt.  Obviously it's better to be in the house at 1-over than 2-over.  Yeah, got a lot of work to do over the next two days.   
 Q.  Are the conditions creating inconsistent -- is the wind swirling?  
JASON DAY: It is.  It is.  You stand over one shot and you're thinking it's going to be ten yards into you or 15 yards or even 20 yards into you and the wind dies down.  You've got to change your whole process of the shot.  Instead of hitting a 9-iron, you might be hitting a 52-degree wedge.   
So when it is conditions like that, it makes it a lot tougher.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT