THE 145TH OPEN
July 15, 2016
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JASON DAY: Yeah, we totally expected to have conditions that were going to be difficult, but not to the point where it was blowing 30 to 40 miles an hour with winds and rain coming in sideways.  I think I went through four gloves during that little time span, and it was coming down pretty heavy on me.  My weather gear is totally soaked now, and I've got to somehow dry it out before tomorrow.
Q. Is that the worst storm you've played in?
JASON DAY: Yeah, by far.  I played at Royal St. Georges going back a few years, and it felt like the rain was coming up underneath the umbrella.  But that was -- for the little time span we had of that, that was pretty atrocious.
Q. What is your expectation level of getting in red numbers?
JASON DAY: I was kind of hoping for days like this where it is harder.  Unfortunately the guys in the morning definitely had the advantage over the last two days, which is totally fine.  You get lucky in draws like this playing the Open Championship.
But, yeah, I mean, it's nice to be able to come into a day like this knowing that I need to play good golf, get on top of my game and shoot 70.  Get myself back to making the cut.  Hopefully over the next two days get myself back into contention.  That would be nice.
Q. What club did you hit into that par-3?
JASON DAY: I hit 5-iron, but I mis-hit it a little bit and it kind of just rode the wind.  Rickie hit 5-iron as well and he got it pin high, but I didn't quite catch mine because we had a 40-mile-an-hour wind coming in from the side, and I ended up making a good par there in the end.
Q. (Inaudible).
JASON DAY: Yeah, it all depends on what the weather conditions bring us.  But obviously I've got to go into the next couple days with a positive attitude regardless how the weather is, because it's going to be hard on everyone.  It's going to be hard to win a major tournament.
Mickelson, Phil has been playing some tremendous golf over the last two days, but you just never know what's going to happen in major tournaments.  I've just got to keep trying to push forward and trying to get myself back into contention somehow.
Q. What were a couple of crazy shots out there?  You got home at 15.
JASON DAY: I couldn't get home at 15 -- I mean, I could have if I hit 3-wood, but it was a three shot par-4, which was fantastic.  One of the hardest ones, too.  Yeah, we're talking about I'm aiming -- the par-3 I'm aiming 60 yards left of the pin to hit it.  Same with the one I think it was five or whatever, the par-3.  I'm aiming out towards the ocean, and I hit a nice 4-iron up there, and it drew at least back onto it, another 60 yards at least.  So the ball is moving a ton when the wind's up.  But that's just part of Open Championship golf.  It's great.
I was talking to Roger Maltbie out there, and he said, "You got to sign up for this."  And I said, "I totally agree."  You've got to understand that some people get lucky, some people get unlucky.  But you've got to take what you get and roll with it and try to do the best job you can.
Q. After a day like today, but you missed yesterday (inaudible) your iron play not being as crisp.
JASON DAY: Yeah, it was much better today.  A lot more sharper today.  My discussions with Cole were a lot more thorough, so I kind of -- when I was standing over a shot I knew exactly what I needed to do, rather than yesterday they weren't -- obviously they weren't as thorough.  And I hit a lot of poor shots.
So hoping for some more tough conditions over the next two days for everyone and that should be a lot of fun.
Q. How much confidence do you take from the four birdies on the front nine, so you can make a little bit of a run?
JASON DAY: Yeah, the front side if you give yourself the opportunity, you can get it going.  The back side is obviously the tougher side, so I think you try and get yourself off to a good start tomorrow.  Maybe sneak one or two on the back side while playing well on the holes that count with the harder ones.  Should shoot yourself back up closer to that lead.  Obviously I'm sitting here 11 back, and that sounds like a long way back, but you just never know how things go.  I've just got to, once again, I've got to keep a positive attitude.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT