THE 145TH OPEN
July 17, 2016
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  With the birdies coming in, does it show how more difficult the back nine was?  
JASON DAY: No, no, I think it's a little bit of both.  Obviously I need to improve the short game.  I think the short game let me down this week.  I didn't hole the putts that I needed to out there and obviously when I put myself in opportunity situations with regards to driving greens and getting around the greens, I didn't get up and down for birdies.  The same thing, when I missed greens, I didn't really save myself a lot.   
The back nine is difficult, but you've just got to play good.  If you don't play good on the back side, you're not going to win the tournament.  Obviously I came here to try and win the tournament, and I obviously didn't do that.   
 Q.  Are you ready for the PGA?  
JASON DAY: Yeah, I've got Canada next week.  I'm pumped to get back to some 90 ° weather.  Don't have to wear three or four layers on every day.  The greens are going to be very quick, so once I get in tonight, I'll have a good rest and get into that.  But obviously the PGA is the first time I've ever defended a major championship, so I'll try and soak up the experience of what that entails with regards to the start of the week going to the champion dinner and having to defend that and go to the media and the press room and all that stuff.  But once Thursday comes around, you have to go out there and execute and play good.   
Excited about that, but also excited to defend Canada as well.   
 Q.  You've been putting beautifully on those greens in America.  Was that the biggest transition?  
JASON DAY: Yeah, well, I think I'm just used to the 12, 13, 14 on the Stimp and then we get here and it's 9.  Obviously, understandable because of the conditions and the elements that you have to battle out here, how windy it is, you have to keep them at a certain speed or else they'll blow off and it won't be fair for anyone.  So I tried to get in early, tried to get used to the greens.  It just feels like I'm hitting it with a sledgehammer and it's going nowhere.   
It's something you have to get used to, and unfortunately I just didn't putt really good this week.   
 Q.  Was it the weather that made the tournament so difficult?  
JASON DAY: It depends on what wave you were on, but that's one thing that I've learned over the years is that the weather can have a big impact obviously how you play that week.  Me, I said it yesterday, me, myself, Rory and Jordan were kind of on the bad side.  So it's just if you call it unlucky, it may be unlucky, but you've got to embrace it and try to play good.   
We're all here to try to do one job and that's win, and unfortunately this is the only major championship where you have to battle the elements and if we're playing in America, usually it storms and there's lightning and we get off the course.  But we play through pretty much anything here.   
 Q.  In terms of the weather, what are you looking forward to next week?  
JASON DAY: Getting back.  The fans are great.  The fans are fantastic there.  Looking forward to playing Glen Abbey.  It's a beautiful golf course.  Obviously sad to see that go off the rotation.  I love playing Glen Abbey.  It's a really fun course to play.   
 Q.  As far as the Olympics, was it only the Zika dangers?  
JASON DAY: Yeah, yeah.  No, no, no, all Zika.  Me and my wife are planning on having more kids, so if I get -- it's a very small chance.  The risk is very low, but I don't want to put myself in that position where I may bring it back and pass it along to my wife and that may have implications on future pregnancies.  So that was the main reason.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT