WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
July 2, 2016
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  That was an absolutely masterful job of scoring today.  
JASON DAY: Oh, yeah, I mean, I kind of felt like Mr. Haverkamp out of "Caddyshack" there, not knowing where my golf ball was.  I just had to do something.  Obviously the goal is to win the tournament and to try and keep myself in it.  I hit some pretty errant shots out there today, but the short game saved me.   
 Q.  Sometimes a stage like today where you turn a 75 or 76 into a 69 are the difference between winning and not winning, but I also noticed that you looked like you were trying to make the same swing all day long trying to find something; is that true?  
JASON DAY: Yeah, that's true.  I was just trying to play the draw.  I feel like I'm the most powerful and I feel very strong and confident when I hit the draw, and there was this perception in my round where I kept on losing everything right, getting myself into some trouble up and around the greens.  Obviously there's a lot of negative that you can look at in this round with regard to my hitting.  But I think the positive is that I'm still tied lead and I haven't hit the golf ball that great this week.  If I can stick to that and think about that, if I can hit it anywhere sort of decent tomorrow, give myself a few more opportunities on the greens, I feel like I've got a very good chance of winning it.   
 Q.  What will you do the rest of today and tomorrow morning?  Are you going to go to the range and figure some things out physically?  Mentally you've got to be exhausted.  
JASON DAY: Yeah, I'm pretty exhausted right now, so I'm hoping that I find something in my sleep tonight.  I'm just going to go back and rest.  I mean, it's very -- it's a fine line between hitting a great shot and a terrible shot.  Obviously you're millimeters away, a millimeter away from hitting it off the fairways here, especially when you hit the ball.  I think if I can just sharpen the focus a little bit more, be a little bit more deliberate in what I need to do tomorrow, hopefully that tightens everything up and I can just go out there and free-wheel it.   
 Q.  You're fun to watch; you hit the fairway at 1 and then 17 and 18 you still shoot 1-under, you're still tied for the lead.  Your thoughts on this day?  
JASON DAY: Well, at the start of the day I looked like I knew what I was doing, and then as the day progressed I looked like I hadn't picked a golf club up for years.  Yeah, days like this, they just happen sometimes.  You've just got to somehow get it done, and fortunately for me I holed a lot of good-quality putts out there, saved myself with some good short game around the greens.   
And a positive note going into tomorrow, I'm still tied for the lead, which is great.  If I can find some sort of hitting tomorrow, that's a positive.   
 Q.  Three-hole stretch, 13, 14, you make a couple of 10-footers to save par and then you go to the par-3 and roll in a 36-footer and that's what got you back to 5.  
JASON DAY: Yeah, definitely.  Yeah, once that happened, I was just -- you're just really grinding and grinding and stressing over those 10-footers, and then I finally hit a green, and I'm like, I've got some relief now because I've got a putt for birdie.  To be able to steal one there on 15 was great, knowing that you could -- if you had the right number on 16 you could get a club in there, and 17 and 18 are very makeable birdies if you get it on the fairway because of the pin locations.   
Hit some good-quality putts coming in that unfortunately didn't go in.  But once again, tied lead, and all positive stuff.   
 Q.  You kind of lied to me earlier in the coverage.  You said the focus today was to hit fairways.  You only hit three.  
JASON DAY: Well, I tried.  It wasn't really lying if I tried to do it.   
 Q.  You maintained a share of the lead.  How did you turn that under-par round?  
JASON DAY: Good question.  I was just trying to grind it out.  I mean, one of those days where you just don't have a long game at all.  It happens.  It really does happen.  Unfortunately we're not on our "A" game or not on any sort of game, a great game all the time.  But my short game definitely saved me, especially the last few days.  But positive, I'm positive about tomorrow, because I am tied for the lead, and I haven't hit it great over the last two days.  If I can find something tomorrow and start hitting it a lot better and start getting my lines to be a little bit more deliberate shots mentally, hopefully I'll give myself more opportunities, and from there I'll be in contention.   
 Q.  How close do you feel you are to putting together a complete round closing out this tournament?  
JASON DAY: Well, if I hit it good, I feel like I can capitalize on the birdies because I'm sitting there going, any time I'm on the green or anywhere from 15 to 10 feet I feel comfortable.  I feel comfortable with my lines, feel comfortable with the speed.  I'm very comfortable with my putting.  That's the way I feel, but unfortunately I just can't get it on the greens.  A little bit of a head scratcher today, but once again, I can't really dwell on it because things happen, and it's unfortunate.  But once again, I've got one more day to kind of try and extend that lead and go from there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT