WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
June 28, 2016
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MARK WILLIAMS: Welcome, Jason Day, to the World Golf Championships Bridgestone Invitational.  Obviously there was a statement earlier this morning that you made that most of you in the room have seen.  If you'd like to make some comments on that and then we can talk about the tournament.   
JASON DAY: Yeah, it's obviously a pretty big statement for me and my team to obviously pull from the Olympics, with the understanding of what's going on down there with regards to the?  Zika virus, it was a very difficult decision to make, obviously from representing your country, but also having to put family first and make sure that's a priority over anything else, more so than golf and the Olympics.   
Like I said, it was a very difficult decision, but I'm looking forward to moving on this week.  I just want to wish everyone that is going down there the best of luck and hoping that they obviously represent their countries the best they can.  And yeah, like I said, it was a difficult decision.  Looking back on it, it was probably late last week that I made the decision of really finally going ahead and withdrawing my name from the Olympics.   
At that moment we were sitting there thinking about when should we do it, and we decided to do it this week, obviously because of Tiger's event was last week, he's a buddy of mine, and I didn't want to take anything away from that tournament because this may be big news.  I'm not sure.  I didn't want to just take anything away from that tournament and what he's doing, especially in Congressional and how everything panned out there.   
But also I wanted to release a statement this morning and then give you guys some time so that you could get ready to ask any questions that you wanted to ask with regards to my decision, and obviously give you guys the respect that obviously needs to happen.   
With that said, I'm willing to take any questions with regards to the Olympics.   
 Q.  Would you have played if the Olympics were in any other city?  
JASON DAY: You know what, I think that's a very good question.  It's just -- I think I was talking to Steve and Pete about it last week, the CEO of golf Australia, and I said, if it was in Tokyo I'd love to go to Tokyo and play, but once again, you can pick up anything anywhere you go.  It's not like saying that you'd go to any other country and you can't pick up anything else.  You can go to any other country and pick anything up.   
Unfortunately with what's going on with Brazil and Rio with the Zika virus, there's a small chance it could happen, and I just can't put my family through that, especially with the future children we're looking at having. My wife wants four kids, which I've said I want two, but I've got the last say in that.  She wants four kids, and obviously if we're having four kids I need to make sure we -- make sure that the priority is family first over that.   
 Q.  To kind of piggyback off of what Doug asked, you've seen a litany of guys who have dropped out in recent weeks for very similar concerns.  As a guy who clearly cares about the game, and this is golf's introduction to the Olympics, how disappointing are the circumstances that it's led to this rash of withdrawals?  
JASON DAY: It's just unfortunate because I think when they got their nomination, which was years ago, they weren't really facing -- I mean, they were facing certain issues like this, but I don't think it was in the media's eyes, in the athletes' eyes at the time, and then now it's time to come and represent your country, and then obviously everything is magnified because of the media and the coverage that the Zika virus is also getting.   
I understand and sympathize with everyone that has made the decision to withdraw their names, but I also understand what an honor it is to represent your country and try to win a gold medal, as well.  That's why it was so hard for me to pull, because golf hasn't been in the Olympics for I think -- it hasn't been in the Olympics for 112 years, and to be able to be one of Australia's first to represent golf in the Olympics would be an honor, but it's just so hard because obviously of what's going on, as well.   
I don't know if this will trigger -- with Rory and myself pulling, I don't know if that will trigger anyone else going.  It's not my decision.  It's their decision and they have to make it.  Some guys are in different situations.  Some guys are younger and single and can take that chance, and some guys are in the same situation as me and have children or going to have children, get married and stuff like that.  It's a difficult one for those guys.   
 Q.  Jason, do you hope that the decision makers that choose the sports in the Olympics and whatnot can look past this situation and not let it affect golf's future in the games and hope that it's just a one-off?  
JASON DAY: Yeah, I think it is a one-off.  It depends.  Certain things we just don't know.  Like something could happen elsewhere down the road, and unfortunately that could make people pull out.  I just hope they look past this and go, you know, we're looking at the bigger picture and trying to grow the game, and hopefully if they can do that, then the Olympics can stay -- the golf can stay in the Olympics and everyone can move on to hopefully Tokyo and try and play there.   
 Q.  Just on the homefront, people will be wondering about representing their country and whatnot, but you will be back for the Australian Open and for the World Cup this year?  
JASON DAY: Yeah.   
 Q.  So you're obviously looking forward to being back and representing Australia in that way.  
JASON DAY: Yeah.  Well, it just -- it's been a long time since I've been back home, obviously some injuries and some pregnancies that we've had has caused me not to come back.  Getting back here this coming year and playing the Australian Open, playing the World Cup, hopefully teeing it up with Scottie if he still wants to, would be great.  I think it's been a long time, and I've missed Australia very much, and I'm looking forward to getting back there and playing and representing Australia in the World Cup.   
 Q.  A couple of questions.  I'd be curious about your opinion on this:  With Zika so prevalent out there, why do you think no women have withdrawn from the Olympics yet, and what's the difference between a golfer withdrawing and track and field or swimming?  
JASON DAY: Well, it's a little bit different for us because we play week in, week out, and for those guys they've got special events that they get ready for, so they've been probably trying to get ready for this for -- other than they wait four years to represent their country and try and win a gold medal, they've got certain events during the year, but it's not week in, week out like us.   
I don't know what it's like for tennis and if there's been a lot of people pull out for that, I don't know.   
But this is kind of their -- if you're looking back at it, especially for golf, golf has never been on anyone's radar in the Olympics.  When you look back at it, you go, okay, what do most people look at in a career?  It's major championships, and then obviously they pop the Olympics in there.  And that's just being honest about it.  I never grew up thinking, oh, I'm going to represent my country in the Olympics because there was never an opportunity to.   
It's kind of like how the Ryder Cup came about where it was kind of new, and then after a bunch of years the history and tradition got behind it, now the Ryder Cup is what it is today.  Same thing, the Presidents Cup will get there, but obviously we just need the history.   
Saying that, for those people in those sports, it's rich in history.  They do that because track and field and swimming and those sorts of sports are such a huge part of the Olympic history and also it spans back many, many years, well before what we were doing.   
With regard to that, I think you see a lot more people staying in the Olympics just because of that, but obviously I don't know the true stats.  I couldn't tell you who's pulling out and who's going in certain sports, so I can't really say why golf is -- there's more guys pulling out or less girls pulling out or whatnot, because it's a hard answer for me to really answer because I just don't know the stats and the facts on it.   
 Q.  Were you surprised that no LPGA players have pulled out?  
JASON DAY: You know what, a little bit.  Obviously, like I said, some of those women might be in a different situation where they want to -- they may be younger.  I mean, I don't know what the ages are for most of these women.  They may be single.  They may be at a different time in their life.   
Most of these guys -- I'm not saying most of them, but the good majority of the guys hopefully from pulling out of the Olympics is because of decision based on family and nothing else, because I wouldn't be pulling out just because it's not safe or something like that down there because I've never been down to Brazil and I don't know if it is safe or not, and I wouldn't be doing that because -- I'm pulling out, withdrawing from the Olympics because of the Zika, and that's the main reason here, because I just don't want to put my family at risk because of it.   
MARK WILLIAMS: Let's change gears a little bit here, Jason.  You're No. 1 in the World Ranking, you're No. 1 in the FedExCup standings.  This is your last opportunity this season at a World Golf Championships event.  You've already won one, so what would it mean to you to capture another one this year?   
JASON DAY: Yeah, I'm really looking forward -- really motivated this week.  I feel very good about my game.  I got in some practice yesterday, which was great.   
It's a funny thing about this tournament, you get, I think, Monday and Tuesday, the fans don't come in.  It was really the only time where I've ever got to walk the course with Cole and be, I guess, the No. 1 player in the world and really only be bugged by media guys or some PGA TOUR guys.  But it was quite peaceful out there, and I got some good work in, played 18 holes, and definitely looking forward to the start of the week.   
Once Thursday comes around, I'm pumped because I think we're going to have some nice weather and it should make it nice, dry, hard and fast for everyone.   
 Q.  What are the challenges of this golf course after your practice yesterday?  
JASON DAY: Usually when we come to a golf course like this, we're kind of in awe of how long it is.  Only because in the past history that I've played here, it's usually had some sort of rain or weather that goes along with it and softens up the golf course.  If we have nice kind of cooler dry weather, which we are going to have, the fairways are already tough to hit anyways because of the undulation and the pitch on them and how tight they are.   
If it dries out, it's going to be difficult because the ball is going to be bouncing.  They're not going to be stopping pretty much dead-on where it's landing because of the dryness of the ground.  And if they start going to the rough, then you're going to catch a little bit more fliers because it's starting to dry out the grass and the rough and the greens are going to be firmer, it's going to be harder.  The greens are pretty narrow.  They're pretty small.  That said, it's going to be hard to get greens, then you've got to try to get up-and-down.  And then once they get to tournament speed, which is 13, maybe a little bit over 13, with the pitch on these greens it's going to be tough to get up-and-down.   
With all that said, it's challenging from tee to green.  I think the harder the better hopefully, the better it works out for me.   
 Q.  And just a second question kind of off the wall:  You were in Cleveland in December to see a Cavaliers game with your wife.  Just your thoughts on the Cavaliers, you were in the front row and obviously your wife got injured, and I know she's okay, but just your thoughts on that?  
JASON DAY: On the Cavs winning?  Obviously I think it was huge for not only Cleveland but the whole of Ohio.  It's been 50 years since a Cleveland team has won any sort of championship.  Just texting Delly and some of the guys in management and being able to see their happiness from just -- I know what they've gone through and how much they've gone through.  Especially LeBron leaving and then coming back and winning one for the city, it's really touched a lot of people.  There was 1.3 million people out in the parade.  The whole city shut down.  I didn't end up going because I'm like, I'm not dealing -- I'll just watch it on TV.   
It really is, it probably helped more people than are down just probably in life and picking them up a little bit more, because it really, really helps people.  It's such a huge win for that city, and hopefully the guys can keep it going.  But first of all, they just need to get some rest.  They've went through a hell of a stretch to try and get through to game 7, and to be able to come back from 3-1-down, beat Golden State at home was unbelievable.   
I was sitting there watching it after the U.S. Open.  I made sure I had to get back and watch it with my family and friends, and once I watched it we were screaming in the house, and it was great to see.   
They deserved it.  They looked like they wanted it, and I'm just glad Dan Gilbert and that whole team, what they've gone through, even the players, they definitely deserved to win.  It was great.   
 Q.  Mate, were you screaming as loud for The Maroons?  
JASON DAY: You know what, the funny thing was is that I recorded it and then I turned on the TV like two hours later because I had to go to golf and then I saw the end score.  So I recorded it to watch it with my mates that came home, but unfortunately I ended up messing it up.   
 Q.  Obviously you've had a couple of close calls here, as well.  You started hot a few years ago, Adam Scott won, you've been fourth, you've had some chances down the stretch.  I think last year except for 16 you probably win the event.  
JASON DAY: What did I shoot on that hole?  I think I was 7-over and it's a par-5.  That's terrible.   
 Q.  You must have some confidence that you can get it done here.  
JASON DAY: I definitely like this golf course.  I like the grass.  I like the greens speeds.  When it's firmer and faster I enjoy the golf course a lot more than when it's slower and softer.  I definitely believe we're going to get that this week.   
With previous experience here being close to winning and knowing what I need to do to win, I'm not -- I feel confident about my game.  I feel good about where my game is at.  I've had a good week off, and I've practiced pretty hard, prepped very well coming into this week, and I feel very rested physically but more so mentally.   
U.S. Open kind of drilled us.  It was hard.  I get here this week, and I'm like, where's the rough?  Even though it's normal-length rough, we just got drilled at Oakmont.  It's great to come back to a golf course that is, like I said, challenging from tee to green.   
I think on a -- obviously there's I think a smaller field.  I think there's only 61 guys here.  I'm looking at it as a positive that that's less guys that I have to try and beat, which is fantastic.  But overall, I've just got to go out there and play well.  If I can do that, hopefully I'm there Sunday.   
 Q.  Do you change the strategy for 16?  
JASON DAY: No.  Just don't hit it in the water and don't do anything.  Don't make triples and don't hit left down the trees or hit it way right.  It's just hard because I hit it left and I hit it in the water and made a mess of it and kept on making a mess of it.  Yeah, if I parred that hole for the week, I think I would have won or something like that.  And it's a par-5.  Usually you try and pick up.   
But hopefully -- it would be great to see that hole moved up to the front tee box or the front of the tee box where guys could hit down to the bottom, especially on like a Sunday where you could get a 4-iron in your hand and potentially go for it and really have that risk-reward, because most guys are going driver down the middle, iron, and then wedging it.  It would be great to see guys be able to go for it, either make a mistake or hit that heroic shot, make that birdie, make that charge going up 17 and 18, as well.  It would be good if we could actually reach that par-5, but there's really going to be no change for me.  I'm just going to try to cut it a little bit closer to the right, so if I get that bounce down to the left that's great, and just lay up and try and hit it closer.   
 Q.  Bubba hit 5-iron one year.  
JASON DAY: Bubba plays a pink driver and it goes forever, and he hits it a mile.   
 Q.  Whatever you thought of Dustin Johnson, and I'm sure you thought he had some decent game, does your perception of him change at all as the U.S. Open champion?  
JASON DAY: No.  No.  I mean, he's always had tremendous game.   
 Q.  He's done it.  
JASON DAY: It was just a matter of time, I think, for him to win.  Everyone kept on -- I think pressure started building up and building up because everyone started talking about it, kind of similar to what happened to me.  But I think it was just a matter of time before he won.  I mean, he had really great finishes in the U.S. Open before that, too.   
My perception doesn't change.  It doesn't change the fact that he's a good golfer.  Let me put it this way:  The only person that I'm playing against is myself out there, so I really -- I look at these guys and there's a lot of talent in the field this week, but I just can't -- I look at it and I can't beat myself because that's really the person I'm playing against.  Even though I'm playing against a bunch of people, I'm playing against myself, and I'm the only one that's going to force myself to win or lose that week.   
Like I said, it was great to see Dustin finally win.  I mean, with all the kind of the debacle, what happened with the ruling and all that stuff, it showed a lot of maturity on his part to be able to, with all that distraction go on, be able to finish off and finish strong and end up winning by a pretty good margin in the end.   
 Q.  And secondly, how many more players do you think have to pull out of Rio for there to be an asterisk attached to the gold medal?  
JASON DAY: There's not going to be an asterisk I don't think.  You go win a gold medal, you're going to win a gold medal.  I mean, will there be an asterisk at this event because the Europeans didn't play this week?  Rory and those guys?  I mean, it's just -- you win a tournament based on the competition that you play in, and the competition is going to be great regardless.  When you go and play a tournament, regardless of what tournament it is, whether it's a Challenge Tour event or Web.com TOUR event or a Sunshine Tour event or even the Tropo Tour back home in Australia, you play in those events, there's always going to be a person or a group of guys that are going to play really well, and that's just the world we live in.   
When these guys go down to Rio, there's going to be good competition.  They're going to have to shoot scores still, and they're going to have to play good golf, and the same here, as well.   
 Q.  Considering what happened to Ellie, would you sit in those kind of seats again?  
JASON DAY: I have before.  I didn't take Ellie, though.  I took my buddy.  I said, it's just an earlier version of Ellie.  It didn't matter if he got hit.  Yeah, I have sat there, but Ellie won't sit there again.  No, she won't.   
But thinking about it now, if I still sit there and they come in, like I'm just thinking about it, if I broke my wrist or did something, then I'd be out, so it's probably a smart idea that I hit back a little bit but it's kind of hard to because they're really good seats and it's really good to see how quick and how fast and how the pace of the game, what goes on in the game, what they say, because I can hear what they say and what's going on, and it's a really unique situation to be able to be in my profession and hear what these guys are saying and how they get themselves going for a game, as well.   
 Q.  But when you comprehend a body like LeBron James falling on Ellie, that's kind of frightening, isn't it?  
JASON DAY: It is.  Yeah, it's not quite the same when I fall on her.  But yeah, I mean, he's, what, 6'8", 260, 270 or something like that?  I guess you just forget how big they are because when you watch them on TV, you're like, oh, they look like normal average-sized humans, and then when you get up to them they're just gigantic people that can move like the wind and do it pretty easily.   
Yeah, if Ellie wants to go sit back there, I'm not going to stop her.  I'm going to be cautious of it and say, look, you really want to do it or not, and if not, then we'll just go sit back because I can't really go to a game and have her sit behind me while I'm up in the front cheering and she's in the back in the nosebleeds.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT