U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 18, 2016
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You got yourself in the house and hopefully two more rounds, and it's something you can go after.  
JASON DAY: Yeah, it was good.  Obviously, the second round was nice.  The first round, obviously, was terrible.  I gave myself plenty of opportunities in the first round to give myself or try and capitalize on the opportunities off the tee shots.  I felt like I drove it pretty good in the first round and then missed too many greens, especially with short clubs, and a couple three-putts in there as well.   
Good to come back out this morning and par the last few holes, which are very difficult to do because 7, 8, and 9 are not easy.  The greens are only going to get firmer and faster, and same with the fairways.   
I'm hoping that it gets really hot today and starts baking everything out and then hopefully plays hard for everyone, and hopefully I can claw my way back into this tournament.   
 Q.  Yesterday had to be an extremely arduous day, but also to have your bad round the first round and be able to come back out and turn it around, that's great momentum going into the next round.  
JASON DAY: It's just the first round happened.  You can't do anything about it.  You've just got to find the positives and move on.  Just keep fighting until you can't fight any more.  What am I, 5 over?  The lead is 4 under.   
I'm trying to claw my way back to even par.  I think, if I can get back to even par, that I may have a good chance at giving myself a shot at winning.  But obviously, there's plenty of golf to be played.   
It seems like Dustin Johnson is playing some pretty good golf right now.  I think he only made one bogey, something like that, over the last two rounds.  So he's definitely playing well.  It definitely suits his game because he can take some lines that a lot of other guys can't and lay it back when he needs to.  He's going to be tough to beat, especially with how he's playing.   
But 36 more holes.  There's so much golf to be played, and I've got to be patient.  I can't -- with the weather the way it is, I think it's 87 today and 88 tomorrow, it's going to be quick.  It's going to be quick and fast and hopefully, like I said, dries out and makes it tough for everyone.   
 Q.  When you talk about even par, trying to get there, this is obviously a very tough course.  Where do you see those potential opportunities to get those birdies?  
JASON DAY: Well, obviously, the par 5s are potential.  If you can go through those and birdie those, and then some of the short ones, I know they're going to have some drivable par 4s on the weekend.  So if you can pick up a few cheap ones there.  17 is obviously one of those ones as well where you can pick one up if you drive it in the correct spot.   
So there's birdie opportunities out there if you can put yourself in position.  The hard thing is, obviously, getting yourself off the tee to capitalize on the iron shots coming in.  Yeah, there's opportunities if you're playing well and obviously not if you're hitting it a little bit wide.   
 Q.  Ready to get back out there?  
JASON DAY: I'm looking forward to it.  I'm looking forward to getting some breakfast.  I missed breakfast this morning.  I'm going to get some breakfast and get into it this afternoon.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT