THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 2, 2016
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  6 under par is good, but that's maybe as bad as you could have shot out there.  You played awfully well.  
JASON DAY: Yeah, from tee to green was nice.  A couple three putts, but I felt good about my game coming into this week.  This is my home course (inaudible).   
 Q.  Any real reason for that?  Do you think there's a little added pressure on yourself?  
JASON DAY: I think I just try a little bit too hard.  Once I get the feeling -- you know, the prep coming into this week, I've been working very hard.  I came out strong with some birdies on the front side.  But, yeah, I mean, we've still have three more days to go.  Depending on how the weather goes over the weekend, I know we're going to get maybe a little bit of rain and some wind on Sunday.  But, yeah, it's going to be a fun week regardless.   
 Q.  Driving is important here on this golf course.  Other than a little miss with the iron on 14, I thought you drove it extremely well.  
JASON DAY: Yeah, there's just two holes, 9 and 14, with the iron.  I got away with it on 9, but on 14 it's difficult.  You're standing there with a 4 iron, and you know, it's a perfect 3 iron for me to get down to a perfect club, but I've only got a 2 or a 4.  I didn't want to bring the water in play, so I came out of it a little bit into the rough.  I actually hit a great second shot but forced a three-putt at the hole.   
 Q.  Jason Day, a Muirfield member, off to an effective start today.  You said you were going to play this tournament a little more conservative off the lines compared to years past.  Do you think you accomplished that today?  
JASON DAY: You alluded to, I think, the 13th hole where I hit driver.  To be honest, it's one of those holes where you just feel kind of comfortable with hitting driver, just go ahead and hit driver.   
And 11 is one hole that I don't feel comfortable hitting driver.  That's why I hit iron off the tee and ended up making a nice birdie there.   
Just got to pick and choose when you feel comfortable and when you don't feel comfortable and try and attack the course from there.   
 Q.  It was interesting at your last start, which you won by the way -- THE PLAYERS, you talked a lot going into that event about how much you wanted that victory on your resume.  Is the same here at Muirfield for you?  
JASON DAY: Yeah, definitely.  To be a Muirfield member and to play as poorly as I have in the past here, it's a little frustrating and disappointing.  But this is one of the events that you would want to -- you know, like I said earlier, put on your resume.   
Jack, Mr. Nicklaus, has done a phenomenal job molding this course in the way it is today, and the tournament as well.  But, yeah, right now I can't focus on the end result.  I've got to focus on trying to get through tomorrow's round and then Saturday and Sunday.  But off to a great start.  I'm very pleased with that because usually I've struggled here early, but I'm happy.   
 Q.  Quickly and finally, we are now into June.  We're coming into the meaty part of the Major Championship season.  Where are you right now mentally, mechanically, and physically in your game?  
JASON DAY: I feel good.  As long as I keep doing the stuff that I'm doing in the gym, my body will hold up and be strong.  As long as I keep working the 6, 6 1/2 hours a day my off weeks, my game will hold up.  And the mental part is all up to me.   
I've been saying that I've been wanting to extend that lead from No. 1 to No. 2, and then Jordan and Rory have done phenomenal jobs clawing back in and winning at the Irish Open, and then, obviously, Jordan last week at the Colonial.  So I've still got to kind of put the foot down and really just work as hard as I can to really try and extend that.   
I think that's the biggest thing for me is just really understand that, as long as I try and improve that lead, I'm going to focus on the right things and do the right things, and hopefully that will, in the long run, turn into more wins.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT