THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2016
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Bogey-free for the second consecutive day, but, Jason, this one cut short after 14 1/2 holes.  How would you compare today's effort to yesterday?
JASON DAY: Yeah, I mean, I got off to a great start again.  It was.  I had a good save on 1.
Made a nice birdie on 2.
And from there kind of got everything rolling in the right direction.  After the horn went I kind of came out and it just stopped my momentum.  A little bit.
But it was a good par save on 9 and then I kind of got back to where I needed to go.  Even though I was a little sloppy through 10, 11, 12; 13 and 14 were good holes and then obviously 15 tee shot was great.
So coming back in the morning, hopefully we get a little bit softer greens, 16 should play a little bit downwind, so hopefully I can get there in two.
And 17 and 18 will play a little tougher with the breeze into, but I just got to get out there and hit quality shots.
Q. You mentioned the par saves, the long birdie at 13.  Where is your confidence level right now on the greens?
JASON DAY: To be honest, I'm not really thinking about how, if I am confident or not, I truly don't know, I'm just trying to extend that lead as much as I can.  I'm not trying to go out there and attack every hole, but I'm really trying to just play smart because I think if I do par a par-5 then don't be disappointed by it, because I made a par and I can go on and try and birdie the next hole.
I feel like, if I can get on the greens, I can hole anything right now, but I just feel like we should be going into the third round tomorrow and we still got three and a half holes to go in that second round.
But there are plenty of more holes to go and plenty more birdie opportunities in the future.
Q. You told me on Monday patience was the key for you this week.  Considering how you're playing how critical is it to still stay patient?
JASON DAY: Yeah, I mean, I just, I can't let, I can't make any mental errors, that's I think the biggest thing is I need to keep trying to push forward and try and not make mental errors, because you give any sort of opening for the field to come and get you, they can catch you pretty quickly around here.  So, patience, but also stay aggressive to my lines and then from there hopefully hole everything on the greens.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT