THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2016
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great round.  Talk about round one.
JASON DAY: Yeah, it was good.  Tee to green was nice.  The greens were very receptive out there.
Yeah, the temperature was hot, so the ball was going a long way, and when the ball goes a long way, you're coming in with shorter clubs if you hit the fairways.
And we thought the greens were sticking and a lot of guys could attack the pins that we had out there.
But shooting 63 was great today and there's a lot of guys at 7-under par right now and a lot of guys that are going off the afternoon tee time that can definitely shoot that score as well.
Q. 17 always good to get a 2 there.  Tell me about your club selection and your putt there.
JASON DAY: Yeah, so I was trying to -- it was 124 yards to the pin and I was trying to hit it 130 yards.
It was a little unfortunate what Jordan did, hit it just behind and if that -- there's a spike mark that made his ball stop and we were surprised, because it was right on top and it should have come back.
So I tried to hit a little bit shorter than him.  We were trying to go for 130 yards, but I hit a little bit less.  And you still get nervous over that shot.  Doesn't matter if you're hitting a pitching wedge or you're hitting a sand wedge or lob wedge, it's still tough to try and hit that shot.
Especially when you're coming, playing that back side, you come into 16, you start to walk to 16 and you start hearing the crowd, you start getting a little bit nervous on trying to hit that tee shot.  But good to get a birdie there.
Q. Do you recall the last round where you had a birdie putt on all 18 holes and not one par putt outside of two feet?
JASON DAY: I had -- I shot an 81 the last time I played, so, no, I really just, I really, I was really displeased with how I played last year, considering I was coming into that week feeling pretty good about my game and I just didn't really play great in the second round.
But I can't really recall the way that I hit the ball as well as I did today and then also putting as well as I did.
I've shot scores lower, but I think from tee to green and then on the green and then being patient and everything kind of just clicked today and I shot a good score.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT