ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
May 1, 2016
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. We talked about that 59-foot putt, and I said, oh, you started walking pretty early, and you said?
JASON DAY: I had a feeling it was going to go in.
Q. You said you could see it.
JASON DAY: Well, once it got over the hill, I knew that it was on such a good line that it was going.  I felt like it was going to the hole, so I started walking and it went in lucky enough.  But you take those when you can.
I just holed one on 8, just showed it on the highlights.  That's one where I kind of snuck one there as well.  But right now, with the scores at 13-under par, you have to get those putts when you can, because this course is only going to yield some more birdies and the guys are tearing it up out there.
Q. The reason I asked you the question was because there are feel players, there are visual players, and clearly, as we watch your preshot routine, you close your, eyes get behind the ball, and you're doing some visualization.  How has that impacted your game?
JASON DAY: Well, I've been doing the visualization, closing my eyes ever since I was 14 years old.  I went to Col, and I said, you know, I can't quite -- I can't quite see the shot.  And he said, close your eyes.  And at that time, Aaron Baddeley was closing his eyes, so I started closing my eyes and using it that way.  And, yeah, I've been doing it for a long time.  Actually, I can close my eyes and see the shot and it works out pretty good.  So I'm not going to stop that.
Q. You're stuck here in the rain in New Orleans, which there could be worse places to be stuck in the rain.  But your wife, she's in the Bahamas, and she just celebrated her birthday.
JASON DAY: Yeah, it's her 30th birthday, so she's enjoying her time in the Bahamas.  I think it was a big one for her, she's been a little depressed about turning 30, and I'm like, easy there, I mean, I look at it as I'm level 28 and she's level 30 now, so we're just going up and up in levels.  But, yeah, she's enjoying herself with the kids and her girlfriends down there and I'm stuck here in New Orleans with the rain.  So, I mean, I'm trying not to, like we talked yesterday, trying not to hit the red velvet cake.
Q. Well, age is just a number.  Numbers don't count for anything, except maybe winning this tournament.
JASON DAY: Right.  That's the thing, I'm just trying to do the best job I can and that's the hardest part about certain things like this is you're sitting around and you need to switch off.  You got to -- Col's in the family dining every now and then reminding me to stay focused, so make sure you keep your head where it needs to be because things might change and you got to go back out on the course and start focusing and if you lose focus you're going to start making mistakes and right now I can't afford it, if it's going to be a 54-hole tournament I got to try to make that up.  I'm 10-under right now, I'm only three shots back, but anything can happen on the back side.  But right now we're just really struggling to get this turn finished.
Q. As bad as it is waiting around there's the possibility of it being a 54-hole tournament, possibly a 72-hole tournament, but you got to go with the game plan right now that the leader after 54 holes might be the winner.
JASON DAY: Yeah, definitely.  And I think I played in maybe a few -- I think Dustin Johnson likes to play 54 hole tournaments, he's won three of those in the times that I've played -- so, you know, it's an unfortunate thing that we can't get nice weather out and the fans can come and enjoy the weather and the golf course and the great golf, but when things like this happen, you just got to try and take the opportunities that you get, capitalize on them and try and win the Tournament that way, even though it may be a 54-hole event -- we always say golf is a marathon, not a sprint, this is kind of a sprint now.
Q. Stay focused, stay away from the red velvet cake and thanks again for your time.
JASON DAY: All right.  Cheers.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT