ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 30, 2016
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 4-under 68 round two for Jason Day.  How would you say your game is progressing right now?
JASON DAY: I played good out there.  Yesterday and today I played good.  I could have got a few more on the par-5s, definitely had the opportunities to do that, but, unfortunately, just didn't capitalize.  But I'm nitpicking here because I played some solid golf out there and am in good position going into the weekend, just depending upon how far the guys get out in front.
But these next two days are going to be pretty difficult, we might be stopping and starting, hopefully we don't, with the weather.  If that's true, where we're stopping and starting, just got to kind of stay neutral and just get myself the best opportunities I can.
Q. What would the game plan be for stopping and starting?  You're five shots back, it could conceivably be hard to get the rhythm.
JASON DAY: That's the biggest part.  We had a five-hour delay on Thursday and I came back out and bogeyed two holes coming in.  And I had to only play two holes.
So, yeah, it can.  You just got to understand that if it is stop and start, you got to try and stay in the right frame of mind mentally.  Try and keep your self loose.  Because there is a lot of sitting around, a lot of eating, and all that other stuff.  But you got to try and remind yourself that you need to stay sharp here, because it is very easy to get in player dining, start sitting around, start talking to the guys and kind of switch off.
Q. From a conditions standpoint, does this course lend itself to attacking if you're five back?
JASON DAY: It's all depending upon where they put the pin positions in the third round and obviously wind.  I think it's going to gust up to 19 miles an hour today.  If you can give your self good opportunities on the greens, the greens are nice, especially on the back side, there's a lot of opportunities there.  You can shoot your-5, -6, and if you play great -7s.  But once again, it's a weekend, you got to try and just inch your way towards being in contention and hopefully when you're in contention on Sunday, you give your self a shot at winning the Tournament.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT