THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2020
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What was it like when you found out this was canceled?  
JASON DAY: It's understandable, obviously, to see all the other leagues around America, and especially around the world actually, cancel either part of their season or most of their season. I think it was the right decision that commissioner had brought forward for us. Obviously this is devastating in a lot of ways, not only in the sporting world, but obviously around the world with regards to the economic side of things and then the health side of things, as well. There's a lot of people that are obviously going to have a hard time going forward from here. But hopefully there are precautions that are set going forward through the U.S. Government and then through other organizations will, obviously, help alleviate the pain that a lot of people are going through.   
 Q.  What was your initial reaction when you found out the Masters had been postponed?  
JASON DAY: We found out five minutes ago. You know what, I think right now everyone is nervous about what has been going around, but I think it's the necessary steps that need to be taken in regards to the safety and health of not only players, but just the general population. Obviously we need to get in front of this and try and make sure that we don't have any setbacks going forward. I think that's the main key is to understanding what we're trying to obviously get past and moving on from there. But I think Augusta made the right decision in that.   
 Q.  What's your plans for the near future?  
JASON DAY: Right now it's just get home and just try and minimize contact with as many people as I possibly can. I know that there's a lot of things out in the media and a lot of things on social media that people are recommending, but I think we've just got to understand that we've maybe got to listen to our health officials and try and do what we can to obviously stop the spread of this virus. But in the meantime, it's nice to be able to rest my back, which is a positive out of everything. But obviously that's the least of my worries right now is for me to have a back problem. I sit and think about all the people that are obviously struggling health-wise that -- or people that are about to either on the border of losing their job or, you know, about to lose their job. So this is devastating in a lot of different ways, and I understand that, and this is a very, very unfortunate situation.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT