MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2016
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Did you ever imagine being in a dogfight with someone twice as old as you?  
JASON DAY: No, and he got the better of me, too. I just said it's impressive, really, really impressive to watch what Bernhard did out there today. Just the positions he was in compared to where I was. I mean, I can just think about 10. I had 120 yards to the pin and I'm not sure what he had. But he was at least 60 to 80 yards behind me. And he just kept going along and knows his strengths and weaknesses.   
I had a lot of fun playing with him. I could tell how great he is, how much of a competitor he is. He's a true professional in that regard. And I know he wants to compete and try and win this thing tomorrow. But we're all trying to do the same.  
   
 Q. You're still in a good position.   
JASON DAY: The last three days have been really tough, as you know. That's what I've been trying to do for the most part, just trying to stay patient. It's always hard to have the lead at a major championship with these conditions, to keep pressing forward.   
So I just kept on saying to myself, just keep grinding out, just keep trying to get your birdies when you can, minimize mistakes, and just be patient with yourself. And today I was very happy with it.  
   
 Q. The 14th green, when you made that 65‑foot putt and he chipped in, what was that experience like?  
JASON DAY: It was pretty cool, because obviously he gave me knuckles on the way up. He was going back and forth between hitting a putter and a chip and he ended up hitting the chip and chipped in. So it was‑‑ we were both kind of urging each other on.   
He's a dominant player out on the Champions Tour. He was a dominant player out here on the Tour. He was No.1 in the world at one point. Once again it just goes to show how competitive he is. To be able to be a 58‑year‑old man, be competitive with us, and want it as much as he did 40 years ago is pretty impressive.   
   
 Q. How does the gap at the end of the day change your strategy for tomorrow?  
JASON DAY: Yeah, it just depends on whether I‑‑ that's‑‑ if it's kind of‑‑ if they start coming back, then that's when you've got to go, okay, I need to kind of show a little bit more patience tomorrow, even though I'm going to have score opportunities, I don't want to make mistakes. Make birdies when I can, keep pushing forward, because obviously the wind is going to die down and hopefully it's enough tomorrow. But we'll see how it goes. I mean Sundays at Augusta is a different story. It's an always fun to play Sunday in contention.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT