WGC DELL MATCH PLAY
March 27, 2016
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How much fun was that?
JASON DAY: It was very fun.  It was very stressful, like I said yesterday, it was going to be stressful.  There were moments where I think they're the most fun, because I have to get up and hit the clutch putt at the right time.
I wasn't as tight from tee to green as Rory was.  I just kept on saying I've got to frustrate him with my short game.  If I miss a green I've got to get up and down.  If I don't hit a good chip then I've got to hole the putt.  Just trying not to back up a bad shot with another bad shot.
Q. Yesterday, when you went to No. 1 in the World Rankings, when you stand over the putt is that what you expect?
JASON DAY: Moments like that I'll always cherish, being able to beat a former No. 1 player in the world who is a tough competitor.  Being able to get myself through the day and not hitting it that great, but have the short game and be able to get the job done when I need to.  Those are the moments where I'm the most proud, because earlier this year I spent a lot of hours, a lot of hours, just practicing and trying to get my skills better and better.  It's certainly paying off right now.
So my next step is to try to get through this round and just keep working hard, keep practicing, keep wanting to win.  If I can do that hopefully I can go on a stretch like Rory being No. 1 in the world.  That's the ultimate goal.  But standing over that putt, I felt really confident and hit great speed on that putt and it went in, luckily.
Q. Does being No. 1 change your mentality?
JASON DAY: No, I would have been disappointed being No. 1 in the world, not yet, but next week, but knowing I got there and then having to play this afternoon and not having a shot to win.  That would have been a real kick in the gut.
To be able to be in the finals and play against Louis, who is also a very tough opponent, that gives me a lot of -- a boost of energy, really.  I really want to win this tournament.  Like I said before, if we need to go another 36 holes this afternoon, I'm happy to do it, I just need to find a way to do it.
Q. You talked a lot this week about really wanting to have this tournament.  What are your feelings now?
JASON DAY: I have to stay very neutral, very level headed.  I know that it's going to be a tough match, regardless.  It's not going to be like a guy that is just 64th in the seed and he's somehow got through and I underestimate him.  I can't underestimate Louis or anyone else in the field.  I've got to get back to the game plan, try to make as many birdies as I can, and close it out easier than what I had this morning.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT