WGC DELL MATCH PLAY
March 26, 2016
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You've done so many things in your career, including winning a major championship.  What does No. 1 in the world mean to you?  
JASON DAY: It's not so much about the No. 1 rank that really gets me excited.  It's more so the journey and the process that it's taken.  To get to the top of your sport takes a long time and so for me it's that delayed gratification, I'm really thankful for and very happy for, because I have been busting my butt and doing the right things.  To be No. 1 in the world is fantastic.  The next step is try to get into tomorrow's round.  I know I have a tough one tomorrow and I'm looking forward to it.   
 Q.  That tough one is going to be against an also major champion, and also a player who has been No. 1 in the Official World Golf Ranking before in Rory McIlroy.  What do you think it's going to be like between the two of you tomorrow morning?  
JASON DAY: I think we'll have a lot of fun.  I just hope the weather is good for us.  It can heat up as quickly as possible.  My back is a little shot right now.   
But I'm going to have a lot of fun regardless of what happens tomorrow.  But I expect a really, really tough match in the morning against Rory.  I expect if I'm in the next match, as well.  It seems he has been playing good golf right now and he has been No. 1 in the world for a long period of time when he was up there and he's a tough competitor.  Once again, just enjoy it and have fun.   
 Q.  You just keep rolling on.  You seem to close a lot of matches here at this very spot.  But this match means a little bit more.  You've made your way into the semifinals and gone to No. 1 in the world.  Summarize how this week has gone for you?  
JASON DAY: It's been a bit of an up and down week, especially emotionally.  It's been quite amazing to be able to start the week and not really thinking I'm going to be able to play with what happened Wednesday.  And turn around I'm No. 1 in the world on Saturday.  It's a strange feeling.  I'm glad I stuck it out.   
Tough match tomorrow morning, tough match in the afternoon, as well.  I'm looking forward to playing against Rory, we haven't really had the opportunity to play against each other like that.  It should be a new experience and a lot of fun.   
 Q.  I was going to ask about that.  Rory McIlroy, yourself and Jordan Spieth.  Everyone is talking about the so-called Big 3.  Now you get the chance for find out.  This is a great opportunity for you.  Are you licking your chops?  
JASON DAY: Yeah, I expect it to be very, very tough and very stressful out there.  And that's the stuff I enjoy.  And I'm just hoping that it's a good match tomorrow for everyone and for us, as well, because we enjoy the competition.  Tomorrow I'm just going to try to recover the best I can tonight and get into it tomorrow.   
 Q.  How is the back, do you need some rest?  
JASON DAY: Yes, I definitely need some rest.  Going 36, 36 is definitely tough on the weekend.  It was a little stiff this morning but once the heat came out it loosened up a bit and I'm good to go.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT