ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 20, 2016
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Jason, you've had a number of victories over the recent months including a recent championship.  Speak to how awesome it is to win here.
JASON DAY: It was a very, very rewarding win today.  As you saw out there today, I looked like I was out of sorts on the front side and bogeying two on the front side where I was actually playing really well the par-5s this week.
I was hitting shots and didn't know where anyone of my iron shots were going.  The only thing that I was a little bit comfortable with was my driver but to be able to kind of go on.
I said if I get back to even par through 9, which I did on the 9th hole with the nice shot there, but if I can get 2, 3-under on the backside that might have a good chance of getting this win, but very, very rewarding.
Q. Did you speak, because as you point out you were a little erratic and dropped the anchor and struck the ball well, in position.  Just the two birdies, no Is that the experience that Jason Day has over the recent months?
JASON DAY: Yeah.  You know, it's just moreso I made sure that even though the front side wasn't good for me and everyone saw it, don't panic, just be patient with yourself and when you get that opening, like I did on 17, make sure you take it and that's where people that win and finish 2nd usually take that opening and jam the door shut and fortunately for me I had an amazing up and down on 18.
Q. Someone who you turned to for some counsel over the recent months, Tiger Woods.  Speak of that relationship.
JASON DAY: We were trading texts back and forth all day -- I mean all week, obviously words of wisdom because he's played well here.  But to be able to hear what he has to say and his advice and how much he believes in me really means a lot especially coming from the best and yeah, I mean I just saw a text from him just as I got out.  I didn't get to read it but I know he just texted me and texted me this morning saying just be good.
It's great to shake the King's hand.
Q. Back in the winner's circle for the first time in 2016 on the PGA TOUR.  Bit of a struggle out of the gate.  What were some of the things you were dealing with the first 8 holes?
JASON DAY: Lot of emotions and feelings I haven't dealt with ever since the BMW last year.  That's a long time to take a lot of those, to miss those feelings and it was great to be able to be in contention, great to feel those competitive juices flowing.
But I highly recommend winning by a couple more shots.  To be able to just get through that front side and to say to myself be patient, make sure when you get a chance you give yourself the opportunity and to birdie 17 and par on 18.
Q. You talked to Tiger.  You told me about patience and aggression.  How did that ultimately help you find your way back into the winner's circle?
JASON DAY: Really kind of -- I mean the one on 9, the birdie on 9 definitely gave me a boost of confidence going to the backside and it's a tough finish, it really is a tough finish.  Once I saw Troy birdie five in a row; Kevin Chappell is in the mix, Henrik Stenson is in the mix -- to not birdie 16 was a bit of a disappointment for me and, you know, trying to stay as patient as possible and getting up and hitting a 5-iron to 12 feet and rolling that one in even though I saw Kevin Chappell was 17-under, then I'll be safe.
Q. What can this do for you setting up the rest of the year?
JASON DAY: It does a lot of confidence for me knowing that everyone was asking what's wrong, what's going on, why aren't you playing well?  I just kept on saying to myself, kept on saying to the people, the fans, the media, just be patient, I'm just going through the process and I'm going to keep working hard.  Things take time.  It happened this week.  I'm just happy that I won.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT