WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 3, 2016
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Not quite the round you had hoped for, but tell us a little bit about it.  
JASON DAY: Yeah, it wasn't that bad from tee-to-green.  A couple of silly shots that I hit out there, but I mean, overall, I was scratching my head really on the greens and around the greens.  It's very tough.  It's difficult because there can be a lot of birdies out there but on top of it, if you're missing fairways, you're catching flyers, not catching flyers, calculations are very difficult coming into the greens.   
The greens are firm, they are fast, the wind is up a little bit.  Start missing greens, you get a little unlucky here or there around the greens, because it is patchy, and it's hard to control your trajectory, ball flight, especially out of the rough right next to the pin.   
You don't get it close enough, you're not putting well, then you're walking off scratching your head at the end of the day, and that's kind of how I was.   
 Q.  You told us you were going to play conservatively.  Given that, will you explain 16?  
JASON DAY: That was conservative.  That was 60 yards left of actually where I was trying to go.  Yeah, that's me trying to be conservative.  Actually I toe-hooked it.  I was actually trying to go left of the fairway bunker on the right, and it was 60 yards left of where I wanted to go.  So that's me being conservative.   
Yeah, I mean, that's just one of those shots, I toed it and it just went out left.  I was just really trying to get over the bunker, get it past it so I could have like a 30-, 40-yard pitch.  The wind was going to be back, I could hit a little spinning shot.   
 Q.  So you just can't win for trying.  
JASON DAY: It's just human error, unfortunately.  I wish I could hit it in the center of the golf club all the time but sometimes I'm like an amateur and I hit it in the parts where we're not supposed to.  But that's how it is.   
For the most part I've actually played all right.  From tee-to-green it was all right.  But yeah, I knew someone was going to say something about 16.  (Laughter).   
 Q.  What was the collective vibe and dynamic between the top three players?  
JASON DAY: It was good at the start and then it kind of declined coming in.  And I was the first one to go.  So I don't think the attitude, my attitude, helped those guys a lot.  And then Rory, what he did on 9, kind of putt a little bit of a salty taste in his mouth obviously after the round, because he played beautifully.   
He played really, really nice from tee-to-green.  His putting, you know, it was kind of a shock to see him 3-putt 8 from pretty close range.  I was in there trying to get a line because his line was going to be just below my marker and he was three-foot left and six-foot short of the hole.  Didn't give me much help.   
But Rory's going to bounce back.  It's just once he gets it rolling, he's going to play well.  And Jordan, he's one of those guys that he's gritty and no matter what he does, he'll find a score out there, and he did.   
 Q.  Been a long time since you've had a scorecard in your pocket.  How much stronger do you think you'll be after you've got this round under your belt?  
JASON DAY: It's a little heavy.  Just trying to get that yardage book in and out of my back pocket.   
Everyone jokes every time I see -- like if I walk past players on the range, they say, are you playing this week.  Yeah, I try and play at least once a month (laughter) but yeah, I'm trying to stick to my schedule, because I know that once summer kind of comes around, Augusta comes around, then it's going to be very, very busy for me.   
Because obviously we've got the Olympics and then the majors are all kind of condensed pretty close with how the schedule is, and then on top of it, I've got to defend at some of the courses.  Whereas if I wasn't playing Canada, you'd have the major, week off, major again.  But unfortunately I've got to go three weeks in a row there.   
Yeah, I'm just trying to get back to that -- get back to that form and we'll see how it goes.  I mean, I know I'm going to be busy in the summertime, so I'm just trying to take it easy right now.   
 Q.  You addressed the dynamic inside the ropes but outside the ropes it felt a little flat given you have the top three players in the world --  
JASON DAY: I was just saying that.  I thought there was going to be a few more people out there.   
 Q.  Even when you guys all birdied 1, there was really no --  
JASON DAY: Yeah, yeah, I don't know.  Yeah, I don't know.  I certainly didn't help the situation with my body language and all that stuff out there, so I've got to understand, I need to pick myself up and kind of fight for my score a little bit more.   
It will be better.  It's Thursday.  Once the weekend comes around, there's going to be a few more people having a drink and should be a little bit louder.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT