FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 29, 2016
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  There's been so much under the weather, Jason you're not one to make excuses, but how difficult were the last few days out there?  
JASON DAY: It's really more frustrating, knowing that I put a lot of good prep coming into this week, and then I got sick on Friday night and haven't picked up a club until Thursday.  So that was frustrating part, because you can't really come into this tournament prepared the way I wanted to, especially when I'm defending champion.   
So, getting through the days were just annoying, because you have to come out and try and focus and you just don't quite feel right and you're not hitting the numbers that you want to, because you're a little bit under the weather.   
So trying to find the bottom of the swing and really being aware of the face is really difficult to do.  But like you say, I'm not trying to make any excuses.  I'm just really looking forward to trying to get over this virus.  It's kind of ran through my family and getting some rest and getting ready for Pebble.   
 Q.  Good to hear that you're feeling better and will continue on that.  But knowing that you worked so hard at Indian Wells to get ready for this week, this has not extinguished any of that fire and excitement for the year, has it?  
JASON DAY: Should it?   
 Q.  No.  
JASON DAY: No, I don't think so.  It's just one week.  You can't live and die by one week.  It's not going to be the last cut I'm going to miss.  Hopefully it is the last cut I'm going to miss this year, but once again it's a process.  I got to keep working hard and hopefully that delayed gratification is a lot more sweeter at the end of the year than it is right now.   
 Q.  We were told that your preparation before this week was great.  You were looking good coming in for your title defense.  How difficult is it to come here not feeling good at all?  
JASON DAY: No, it definitely is tough.  It's difficult because it's just frustrating and obviously annoying to come into a week and not be prepared for a golf course like this.  I mean, it's a U.S. Open golf course.  So, you got to come in very sharp and very ready to play not only the golf course, but against the other guys that are playing in the event.   
So to be able to get some good work in knowing that I was hitting the ball well, chipping well, and putting well, and then getting sick last Friday, and then just being sick.  I was -- I had a fever all day for four or five straight days and in the hospital on Tuesday twice.  And it's just, it's hard, but that's just the way it.  So I got to look forward to trying to get over this and getting on to the next one.   
 Q.  What state of health do you think you were at when you teed off on Thursday?  
JASON DAY: I couldn't tell you.  I just had no energy, really.  And I had a little bit more energy today, but I'm just fighting through it.  So, once again, it's no excuse.  I would have loved to played a little bit better.  Having three, 3-putts out there the last two days definitely hurts and playing the par-5s not very well this week definitely hurt, and that's why I'm not here on the weekend.  But it's frustrating and disappointing, but it's a process and I got to try and get better from here and hopefully some good weeks ahead for me.   
 Q.  Take a break and then back for Pebble and Riviera?  
JASON DAY: No Riviera currently right now.  So I'm just going to try and take a little bit of a break here, try and rest up, try and get over this, start prepping for Pebble, and go full bore into that event and try and win that one.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT