THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 10, 2015
Charl Schwartzel
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Down early in the match and held the lead for most of the way until 17.  You hit a couple of great shots and unfortunately Jason burned that edge.  Can you talk about what happened on the last hole with that bunker shot?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: We played well all day, really.  Here and there a loose shot but I think you can expect that in these conditions.
Q. It was a tight match, wasn't it?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Well, I mean, it was.  For the last few holes, we were pretty much in control after nine holes.  We made a few mistakes.  They kept capitalizing where we didn't.  We hit great shots into 17, and that's match play.  It can go either way.  Jason hit some fantastic putts coming in on 15, 16 and 17, and he hit the edge on all three of them.  If they got in, we win quite comfortably.  We miss, they make, and we wipe our eyes out.
I had a poor shot, I had 5-iron on 18 and I just hit it square in the teeth.  That ball has got no more teeth left.
Q. Pretty good session still for the Internationals, and you guys are out again this afternoon.  Looking forward to that again obviously?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: We both played well.  It's hard to say.  Conditions were difficult, so the loose shots, you blame yourself, but it's not that easy.
I think overall we played pretty well.  Obviously disappointing on 18.
Q. Your thoughts on that match, obviously up early and then down early and then up pretty much the whole way.  You guys seemed to play pretty well together in foursomes.
JASON DAY: It was good.  They hit a good shot on 17 and then unfortunately we made a mistake on 18.
But that happens.  You can't ask any more of a guy than he's just trying his hardest.  We both tried our hardest and unfortunately just wasn't good enough today.  But I got Charl again this afternoon and we're going to go out and try to do a lot better this time.
Q. Overall, even though it was a pretty good session for the Internationals, you've got to be feeling good.
JASON DAY: We're the same as what we were yesterday.  We got a another session today.  If we can kind of get one back more and kind of even it out or us get a lead, it would be great going into the singles.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT