THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 9, 2015
Jason Day
Charl Schwartzel
Sangmoon Bae
Danny Lee
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LAURA NEAL: Like to welcome our members of the international team.   
Guys, if you could just start with some opening comments from each of you on your match specifically and then overall the International Team performance today to get things back in shape.  Jason, want to start?   
JASON DAY: Yeah, I think a good day for the Internationals, obviously won the session.  Phil, unfortunately what happened on 7 for him, never heard of that kind of ruling before.  But with everything said and done, we get the halve.  It was kind of back and forth between our group.   
It was good to see Branden and Louis get off to a great start and finish it early.  But you know, once again, it was good to see the guys amped up for today and to win the session was great step in the right direction, especially going into Saturday's 36-hole matches.   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I think from my own side, my game, first time that I played; I sat out Thursday.  Didn't feel very good.  Today with Thongchai, I knew he was always going to be in it and knowing my game, if I play the way I did today, I'd have a lot of birdie putts and that's pretty much what happened.   
You know, we got a birdie and both of them had a few chances, but they just missed and fortunately we took advantage of that.  It was nice to see the us play well, but for me it was even better to see the guys that were down come back.  That showed some real character.  On Thursday when we went out, there was a few chances for the guys to maybe turn it around and it didn't quite go our way.   
But it was really nice to see the guys that are actually down, Sangmoon and them turn it around.  That was good.   
SANGMOON BAE: I had a very fun match today.  It was the first time for me to play in The Presidents Cup, and I have already very good memories and I'm very happy about that.   
I'm happier because I was able to contribute something to the team, so I'm happy about that.  And I'm looking forward to the next three matches and the next two days of The Presidents Cup 2015.   
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, today was obviously a great day for the team.  You know, I think we picked up three points which was huge for us, and you know, Pricey had a good involvement with the team last night, getting the pairings spot-on, and I think that was really important for today.   
You know, Louis and I played some great golf again today.  We just went out there with a mind-set that Jordan and Dustin is just going to make everything and it ended up they didn't.  The type of golf that we played, we never gave them anything back, which always works in a format like this.   
But it was a good positive day for us, positive day for the team.  I think the whole team is raring to go in the next couple of days.   
LAURA NEAL: Last but not least, Danny?   
DANNY LEE: You guys heard enough from the four guys left.  (Laughter).   
I mean it was a good day for the Internationals but you guys all said that.  Should I say that, too?  (Laughing).   
It was a really tough match for me and Sangmoon against Rickie and -- who was the other guy?  (Laughter) Jimmy Walker.  (Laughter).   
We were 2-down after three or four I think, and I didn't have my best game today.  And I had to win against Sangmoon day -- he played awesome today.  He made a lot of birdies.  He made a clutch birdie on the last, as well, to win by one hole.   
Thank God I was playing with Sangmoon today.  (Laughter) pretty sure I helped a couple holes, but not that much.  (Laughter).   
JASON DAY: You're a beauty (laughing).   
DANNY LEE: What?  I'm telling the truth.  (Laughter).   
 Q.  Could you talk a little about Sangmoon's day?  A lot of pressure playing in front of the home country, first time around, and also just stepping up and making that last putt.  
DANNY LEE: I can't really tell you how exactly, what he's thinking, because I'm not Sangmoon Bae.  But I'm pretty sure he was pretty nervous.  I was nervous watching him.   
So he had to stand up and man up and hit that golf ball; I'm pretty sure he was shockingly nervous.   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: (Laughing, shaking head).   
 Q.  You talk about Nick Price.  What was the message last night in the team room that seemed to inspire the guys?  
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah I think the guys were very positive on Tuesday and Wednesday.  We had a good practice on Tuesday getting the pairings right which I thought we did.  I think the guys went out there yesterday and didn't play the same type of golf that we know we can play.  You know, not just the rookies, but I think the guys that's been there a couple times before, as well.   
So it was just, you know, just believe in ourselves and really play golf like the way that we know that we can play.  I think that was the main key today.  I think the U.S. Team, after yesterday, they probably thought it was going to be a walk-off but we still have today, put our chests out and we went full heart for it.  We're in a good position now.  We're just one point back, and you know, a lot can happen.   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: You should have asked Danny that question.  He'll give you an honest answer (laughter).   
 Q.  As you played very well, everybody was excited, especially the local Koreans.  What do you think that your performance can help in South Korea and Japan to promote the development of golf sports?  
SANGMOON BAE: Thank you very much for your question.  If you were asking about how I can contribute to the improvement of the bilateral relationship between Korea and Japan, I'm afraid that I am not in a position to talk about a sensitive or political issue here because my focus during The Presidents Cup is to do my best at each and every single match so that I can contribute to the team.  Thank you.   
 Q.  What was going through your mind before the last putt and after you succeeded the last putt?  And also, we know that you were having a hard time because of the military service issue.  Was there any tears that you shed after that last putt?  
SANGMOON BAE: There was no tears.  But I knew that it was going to be a very important putt for the International Team, and I am glad that it was a big success.   
And we had a very big crowd today, and thanks to their support, I could do very well on the green today, and that was a big driver for the last putt.   
And I actually did not think about my military service issue at that time.  I concentrated on the shot and it went in, so it was a good result.   
 Q.  There was a scene on television yesterday with all you boys kind of gathered around, and you were talking in a very -- demonstrative in the way you were talking.  Wondering if you remember that moment, or do you always just talk about that with your hands?  
BRANDEN GRACE: I'm a pretty excited person (chuckling).  Yeah, I don't know, I think you asked me this yesterday -- oh, somebody asked me this yesterday I think.   
Yeah, I think it's just trying to probably make a point or -- I can't remember what we were talking about.  But we're out here playing in a team.  We've all got our own opinions, and you know, sometimes we like what's going on; sometimes we don't.  But everything's been great so far this week.   
So don't know, you know, probably can't recall what I was saying at that particular time.   
 Q.  Can you make something up?  
BRANDEN GRACE: I don't know, maybe (chuckles).   
 Q.  You were having a hard time today on the course because a couple times we saw you throw your putter on the ground, so you must have been very frustrated.  And you once said that Sangmoon Bae was like a big brother to you; so any advice that you got from Sangmoon today.  
DANNY LEE: Ahhh (pausing) I mean, I was very frustrated out there.  I was very frustrated that I couldn't help my team.  And that's why I probably threw my putter a couple times -- only a couple times.   
But Sangmoon was just trying to calm me down.  I was obviously, like I said before, I didn't have my best game today.  But I tried my best every shot to just help the team or help just one hole or one shot, which it happened on the 16th hole, thank God I did something.   
But it was a very frustrating day for me.   
 Q.  You've made putts to win tournaments.  The putt on 18, how does that compare to having to win a tournament?  
SANGMOON BAE: Like I said, it was the first time for me to play in The Presidents Cup and I never really imagined how strong the camaraderie between the team members would be.  So I was really desperate that I really wanted to help out the International Team, and after I did the last shot on the 18th hole today, I was very happy.  But it was a different kind of happiness because I felt like I did something for the team and I also created a momentum for the other players for the team, so I was very happy and it was a very thrilling moment.   
LAURA NEAL: Gentlemen, thanks for your time.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT