TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 27, 2015
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just get us started talking about how you assess your play here this week.
JASON DAY: A little flat.  Something that I'm still trying to learn, how to backup a win with another win, or at least the same level of play, explosiveness off the tee, as sharp off the tee from tee to green.  Something that I just have to learn.
Something I have to learn to understand what I need to do to rest and recover, because it is huge especially coming from a high to a low and back to a high on Thursday.
So I think overall, it was a solid week but it was just an okay week for me.  It would have been nice to kind of challenge that FedExCup win.  But overall it's something that I just need to look back on and work harder for next year.
Q. Forget the week, what about the year?  Obviously it is your breakout year, you got so much accomplished.  How will you look back on 2015?
JASON DAY: It's been a good year.  To be able to win the Major Championship, the PGA Championship, and then also to get to No. 1 has been a life-long dream of mine.  So it's been a good positive year.
Now that it's over, I'm looking forward to getting some rest.  Really trying to take care of my body in the off season to come back as a new person for next year.  And a lot more motivated, a lot more hungry to stay on top of the world.
And I think it's going to be a good off season for me because I'm going to work very, very hard and I'm looking forward to next season.
Q. How do you avoid a letdown after such a great year, especially such a great season?
JASON DAY: It's not that much of a letdown?
Q. No, how do you avoid it?
JASON DAY: Oh, okay.  Well, I mean to be honest it's something that I'm not used to.  This is kind of a new experience for me because I never had a five win season, and I've never had the opportunity to win the FedExCup as much as I had this week.
I guess the to avoid a letdown you just got to win.  But I think that overall when someone just outplays you, someone just flat out beats you, then you can't be disappointed by it.
Me, personally, I could have played a lot better this week, but just seems like Jordan's kind of zoned in and he's grinding for that win and I think he's going to get it.
Q. What do you make of the year that the two of you have put together here, just for golf in general?  It's pretty rare to have two guys win five.
JASON DAY: I think golf is in good shape.  Not only with myself and Jordan, but Rory, Rickie, the two guys that played behind us with Danny Lee and Matsuyama.  I think golf is in a good spot.
But to be able to put two current -- I'm banking him to win right now -- but to be able to put five win seasons for both of us, it's pretty good.  It's kind of like the old Tiger and Phil kind of era when they used to put stuff like that together and now it's kind of our turn to do that.
So, Jordan, the way he's played the Major Championships, the way he's played regular season, and then now to get off to an average start in the FedExCup, but then come home strong with an T-11 last week or something like that, and hopefully a win this week will cap everything off for him.
Q. As high as you were a week ago getting to No. 1, you let it go here, is it going to be a big low for you?
JASON DAY: No.  Everyone thinks that it's going to be a massive low because it's -- I mean, it's good to be No. 1, but it never changed me anyway, the way that I was as a person, the way that I worked.
It was always a goal of mine, whether I got to the -- I got there for a week or whether I get there for 300 weeks.  To get there to No. 1, I know that no one can take that away from me.
I was the best player in the world, I felt like for the most part of this summer.  And it just finally -- all that good play finally caught up to where it should be and after winning last week was great to finally get my name up top.  But it's not going to -- it's not a let down at all, actually.  It's more of a motivation to really understand what I need to do to get to that No. 1 spot, how hard I need to work for next year to keep that.
I want to be more of a dominant player and I want to be at the top of the World Ranking list for a long, long time.  So I know how hard I had to work this year, so I got to work extra hard next year.
Q. Along those same lines, can you talk about how exciting it is that you could have the possibility of going down the road that you guys could trade it week in and week out between you and Rory and Jordan?
JASON DAY: That's kind of the neat thing.  Usually when someone had it, they held it for a long time, more so back when Tiger had it and that.
But right now, there's just so much chop and change between the three of us that it's kind of -- it's not losing, it's like, wow, you're the No. 1 player in the world.  It's just that there's so much change that we're trying to just quite out beat each other all the time.  And it just goes to show the level of competitiveness at the top of the world rankings for that No. 1 spot right now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT