BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 20, 2015
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You accomplished an awful lot in the last four days, FedExCup leader, BMW champion, and No. 1 ranked player in the world.  A little hard to digest, isn't it?
JASON DAY: Definitely.  Especially this whole summer has been a whirlwind.  It's kind of surreal right now just to really think about.  I don't think it will sink in until tomorrow when I look at the rankings and see my name on top of the list.  I mean, all the hard work and just knowing that there was that belief in there somewhere that I could really believe in myself and understand that all this was for a good reason, just to prepare myself for moments like this.
Q. Talk to me about the final round.
JASON DAY: Knowing that I had a six-shot lead coming into today, it was very important for me to stay patient, very important for me to make sure that I didn't look at the leaderboard as much.  I did look at the leaderboard coming home, but just to really understand that I needed to give myself opportunities.  I'm driving it straight, I'm giving myself a putt, and the way that I'm putting, I've got a shot at holing those putts.  Just to finish the way I did and come home strong was great.
Q. A resounding victory for Jason Day at the BMW Championship.  You're the FedExCup points leader, now won five times on the PGA TOUR this season.  You're the new world No. 1.  How have you been able to go on this roll the last couple months?
JASON DAY: I don't know.  I mean, it's just something where I'm just rolling with it.  I work very hard in the off weeks just to kind of keep where my game is at right now, and the level of confidence that I'm playing with right now is the highest it's ever been.  But knowing that I had to come here this week and win, if I had a chance at getting to No. 1, I had to win, and stepping up and playing the way I did the first two days but also playing very patiently and being very disciplined within myself over the last two days was very special, as well.  You know, all those experiences that I've had, and I said it earlier this year, was something great, and today was great.
Q. Describe what the last two days were like, coming into the weekend with that big lead, knowing the carrot dangling at the end of the weekend if you were able to win was to accomplish a lifelong goal.
JASON DAY: To be honest I had terrible sleep over the last few nights, thinking about getting to No. 1, thinking about winning this tournament, knowing that I had to win this tournament to get No. 1 in the world, I had very bad sleep just thinking about it all the time.  I think I had more bad sleep just because I had such a big lead and I didn't want to give that back.  I didn't want to lose it because obviously having a big lead like that and losing it would have been terrible for me personally.  But just to play the way that I did, very disciplined, knowing that I had to be patient, not looking at leaderboards as much, but giving myself the opportunities on the greens, I felt like I hit it pretty good today, a lot of quality iron shots, but I left myself long putts.  But I understand that because I had to make sure I didn't make certain mistakes out there.
Q. You still have the TOUR Championship coming up next week.  How are you going to be able to keep this momentum going?  Obviously it's a long season and then you have the Presidents Cup coming up.
JASON DAY: Well, I've only got two more events for the year, next week and Presidents Cup, so I'm going to try and get rest.  I'm going to go back home and fly down to Atlanta on Tuesday night.  I can understand that once this week is done, I'm going to celebrate -- once this week is done, it's done.  I'm going to focus on next week, and that's the TOUR Championship and the FedExCup.  But for now I'm just going to celebrate winning this week and being No. 1 in the world.  That's fantastic.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT