TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 25, 2015
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JASON DAY: Yeah, it is very difficult to shoot a score out there if you are not hitting the fairways.  And I don't know, just a little flat I guess you would say, not as sharp with the irons, not as sharp with the driver.   
Putts aren't quite going in as they were over the last seven or eight tournaments.   
But we'll see how it goes.  Weekend is still 36 holes, a lot of stuff could happen.  If I go out and shoot 4 under, 4 under, get it to 8 or something like that and that might put a little bit of pressure on him.   
Especially with how the weather is, I think we're going to have similar weather to what we had today and it's very difficult to get anything going out there.   
 Q.  Will that be the sort of number you target, 4 under for tomorrow?  
JASON DAY: I would love to shoot that number.  I would love to shoot that number.  I'm going to just try my best.   
I think that at the start of the week we're trying to get anything under 10 under.  I think if you got that, then you're do you think pretty well, because it is difficult golf course.   
But right now, if I can just get it somewhere 4 under, 4 under would be nice.  Get to at least 8, because these holes coming in are pretty tough and certain numbers can happen on those holes if you are not quite sharp.   
 Q.  What is it that's making it tough to get it going, not just for you but for a lot of players.  You have fairly still conditions?  
JASON DAY: Yeah, it's very still.  Like you said, it's very wet out there.  But if you just miss the fairways, you can't get anywhere near the hole.  And then you got yourself 40, 50 footers all day and it's just difficult to hole those putts.   
So -- plus there's only 30 guys in the field.  So, I mean 30 guys in the field, if you have a 156 there's obviously a lot more low scores, but yeah, it's just difficult.  If you miss fairways then it's just hard to get near the hole and you just can't rely on holing 50 footers out there.   
 Q.  On 5, you're plus 4 on that hole.  Is it the hole, can you explain it?  
JASON DAY: Well, I hit a good drive down there today and I was off by a foot.  So I only had, off the fairway, by a foot but then I had to hit 3 wood from 195 out.   
It's hard to say yeah, I would love to hit it wide and get it in where the crowd is, it's not like that.  The grass is different here.  So the Bermuda grass, when it's wet, you just can't, I mean I'm -- I'm adding on 20 to 30 yards of wet rough on to the end of a shot, so I'm hitting 3 wood out of -- out of the rough from 195 yards and I'm still pulling up short.  It's just that difficult.   
 Q.  What are you hitting that shot when it's dry?  
JASON DAY: Oh, if it's dry -- see it's different here because if it's dry, you get fliers.  So that's one key that's very difficult about Bermuda is that if it's dry, you hit from 195 yards, your probably looking at 8-iron or 7-iron.  And then in wet, I'm hitting 3 wood, so it's just such a big difference.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT