TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 23, 2015
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Like to welcome Jason Day to the interview room.  World No. 1.  Jason, I don't even know all the adjectives to use about your play recently.  Get us started by talking about coming into this week, No. 1 in the FedExCup and your expectations here.   
JASON DAY: After last week's win, I went back to Columbus and I spent a couple of days just kind of relaxing.  It's always tough to -- after a win, to kind of go back and try and back it up, because you come from such an emotional high to back down to a low for the first few days and then you're back up to a high again starting Thursday.   
So, it's difficult, but it was good to get some rest back home and in Columbus.  And then I'm looking forward to playing this week, it's going to be a lot of fun.   
I've played well here before, I've had the opportunity at winning or at least getting a shot at winning the FedExCup, but that's the main goal right now is to try and win the tournament and go home with the FedExCup would be nice.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions?   
 Q.  Has it sunk in, like you got that goal you're world No. 1 you're sitting in the chair you just replaced the bloke that was sitting there before you, you wanted this for so long.  How is it feeling?  
JASON DAY: It doesn't feel like much.  It doesn't feel like much at all.  To be honest, it really doesn't.  I mean it's -- I know that I put the work in and I've done so much to get to where I am, and rankings go back and forth all the time between No. 1s and stuff, especially over the last few weeks, but to be honest it doesn't feel like much.   
It's not -- once again, it's not like that one big shining moment or one big sense of relief that, oh, I've done it now.  It makes me a lot more hungry to try and keep my position at No. 1 because I want to try and extend it.   
But I'm still the same guy as I was the week before I won and got to No. 1.  I still feel the same.  So, it's great to see my name up there and it's pretty cool to be the best player on the planet, but once again, it's -- I understand that to be the best you have to win and you have to win consistently.   
So, whatever I'm doing right now that's preparing me to win tournaments, I need to keep doing that, because that's kind of my blueprint, that's been working.   
 Q.  Do you feel the Tiger on your back already?  
JASON DAY: Possibly.  That gentleman that just walked out the door, he understands how hard it is to get there and I think that through some of the play that I've been playing it's not jealousy, it's just guys are wanting to win.  And I can understand that.  Because I was in a similar position looking at some of these guys going, that's all want to do is I just want to win and get there.   
So, it may inspire guys to play better golf, but I'm kind of lucky that it's kind of the last tournament of the year for me, so I don't have to play with him one more time and then I'm done for the rest of the year.  So it's kind of nice with that.   
 Q.  I think you are 100 under par since the U.S. Open.  People have said, wow, if he hadn't had vertigo, imagine what he could have done.  But I'm wondering if you actually, the breakthrough, being able to tough out that tournament when you had moments of thinking you were going to walk off the course, whether that was the thing that's clicked that's enabled you to do what you've done since.  
JASON DAY: It certainly helped.  Certainly helped to see how far I could really push myself.  I don't know if it was that, if that was the thing that clicked, but it was more so at the -- I keep saying this -- at the Open Championship, when something -- I mean, even though I didn't win, but it's, something happened that week where it just, everything was going to be fine.  It was just -- I don't know what, I can't put it into words.  I wish I could explain it in a better way where everyone in here would understand.   
But just to be able to get onto a golf course and even still feel pressure and all that stuff, but knowing that it's okay.  It's good pressure to have.  But just looking back on it now, I mean, all these things that have happened, vertigo, missing playoffs in Major Championship, finishing second so many times and not finishing the job.  It has all given me the learning experience to do what I've done over the last ever since obviously the Canadian Open, really.   
Four wins out of the six events I've played it was preparing me for that.  So, you just can't -- it's very hard for someone to come out and just win straight away.  So I mean like most of the time if you're a master of something, you failed more times than you've won.  So, that's kind of the way I'm looking at it.  And I've had a lot of failures, but they have been good learning experiences for me and I'm just trying to get better at it.   
Now it's -- I know what it is like to win and what I've done to win, hopefully it does come easier, but it doesn't.  These things don't come easy, you got to keep grinding it out and once again, grind it out for five hours and rest for 19.   
 Q.  You mentioned playing well here in the past.  This time you enter in the top-5, where you control your own destiny.  How does that, knowing that, how will that affect your mindset this week?  
JASON DAY: Yeah, it's a little tough.  I wish it was like the old format where I could cruise on to a FedExCup win.  That would have been nice.   
But now, obviously, the top-5 do control what they -- control your destiny.  I mean they do control it to a point.   
So, I mean being able to be No. 1 at the top of the list.  I mean, obviously, mathematically it gives me a better chance, if I don't win the tournament.  But once again, I'm just trying to get to number 8 now.  I'm trying to get to my 8th win.   
Because it's -- when I look at the list of wins I've had, to me personally, it feels low.  So, it's, and I don't know, it's like kind of I don't know, someone chasing money.  I mean it's just, it's never good enough.   
So, that's what my mentality is, is where with wins, I just I can't stop chasing them.  I got to try and get as many as I can before my golfing career is done.   
But this week, it's a perfect opportunity for me to add to it, because it is a smaller field.  I only have to beat 28 other guys now because I guess or who else?  29?  Furyk.  Furyk is out.  Yeah, he's done.  So he's out because he had to withdraw for his wrist.   
But it's one of those events where you can get a win because it is a smaller event, even though you still have to play good golf, but it's, I guess, statistically, mathematically it works better in your favor that way.   
 Q.  Assuming you win this week, let's make that assumption, are you voting yourself for Player of the Year?  
JASON DAY: Of course I'm going to vote for myself.   
(Laughter.)  No, just kidding.  I would like to say no, but I probably will end up going, yes, Jason Day, I wish I could vote more than once.  But, no, just kidding.  I still think it's Jordan.  Everyone knows that here.   
I think that what he's done in the Major Championships, it's just kind of a -- it's been a whirlwind kind of run for him.  As of late, it's been a little bit of a struggle.   
But, once again, we live in a 24/7 world where we're just kind of, whatever happens this week, we're just talking about it.  We forget what he's kind of accomplished over the whole year, winning two Major Championship, finishing T-4 and second at the last two Major Championships at the Open Championship and the PGA.   
So, everyone's talking about who is Player of the Year.  If I do win this, yeah, it may turn some heads, may turn some of my peers.  But to be honest, I think he's played better.   
 Q.  Have you given any thought to what you would do with 10 million dollars, and if you're coming down the stretch, and it's in your grasp, would that pop into your mind?  
JASON DAY: I might buy a few more V-neck's from Target.  That's usually what I do, right?  I don't really spend money, mate.  I have some nice stuff.  I might buy some new clothes because I still got clothes in there that are five years old that I still wear today.  So, I mean it's just, I'm a very simple man.   
So, yeah, once again, I mean just to be able to put it away, save it, I don't want to do much with it.  I might -- I don't know, I can't even -- I haven't really thought about anything that I would like to buy.  But what was the second part of your question, again?   
 Q.  Would it pop into your brain coming down the back nine on Sunday?  
JASON DAY: Yeah, of course it would pop into my brain.  It did in 2011 and I choked, so.   
(Laughter.)   
Yeah, it wasn't very fun.  Yeah, it always does.  Things like that do.  But I think hopefully with the experience that I've had over the last four wins, that will prepare me better for that.   
But, it's a good position to be in.  It's good pressure to have.  And all the hard work that I put into winning these tournaments over the last six events that I played, that's set me up to give myself a chance at winning the FedExCup, which right now that's all I'm worried about is trying to get that trophy that's on the side of the building here.   
 Q.  I want to switch gears a little bit.  After this week, you're off for awhile and then the Presidents Cup rolls around.  Your clearly the main guy on the team.  Last time out you made a dynamite combination with Graeme DeLaet.  Have you thought much to the team and have you thought about the potential partners?  
JASON DAY: I've thought about the team.  I haven't thought about the partners.  That's one thing that is hard, because when you -- in golf it's so easy because you're an individual, you don't have to worry.   
In team sport, it must be very difficult to be a player and have to put some faith into your teammates to either get the ball, run it in for a touchdown, or catch the ball and get an out or whatnot.  It must be tough, because you just -- you make the error, it is your own fault.  And can you live with that.  But when someone else makes an error it would be very difficult to live with that.   
But once again, you try to manage 12 different personalities on the team with 12 different egos, that must be very difficult.  I think we're there for one reason and we're trying to -- and that's what's so great about the point change, I think this year is that hopefully it makes it a bit more competitive for us.  Instead of just going to be blow out like it has been over the last years that we have been playing.   
But -- and that's what it's really all about.  It's kind of making it exciting for us and making it exciting for the fans and people that are watching as well.   
But matchups are very difficult.  You got to try and matchup a guy that has similar traits to you, I think.  It's very difficult to put a guy that hits it great and doesn't chip and putt well, but you chip and putt well but don't hit it great because then you're fighting each other the whole day.  You may put -- you may miss a green and he's not very good at short game then he makes -- then you miss the putt.  I mean you'll be fighting it the whole day.   
So you got to -- and once again, golf isn't so easy to get along with.  And we do have this one team event every two years, so I haven't looked too far to who I'm going to be paired with.  Once we get there Monday night then we'll talk about parings at the dinner, at the team dinner.  Then we'll go in and play a competition between us all, probably.  Put some money in and see who comes out the winner in the first two couple practice rounds.   
 Q.  What are your plans for the rest of the year after the Presidents Cup?  
JASON DAY: My plans for the rest of the year after the Presidents Cup?   
 Q.  As it relates to golf.  
JASON DAY: Trying to think.  After the Presidents Cup, I'm going to be done until maybe Tiger's event, I think.  So that gives me a couple of months maybe.  So, I'm going to try and get into the gym and get shredded.  Yeah.  That's my goal.   
(Laughter.)   
 Q.  Me too.  
JASON DAY: Yeah.  I can see it.  I can see it happening now.   
(Laughter.)   
No, that's one thing.  I really -- because I was injured so much, in my career, that I really got to kind of nail this down and really get strong where, in certain parts where I haven't been so that there's a balance between my body and my golf swing.   
Because once again, we're hitting -- we have hit millions and millions of golf swings in one direction and haven't balanced the other way.  So there is a lot of imbalances there.  That's one thing that I'm kind of really focused on over the next couple of months after the Presidents Cup and hopefully come back stronger and hitting it further and a lot more consistent that way.   
 Q.  In your mind, what's the most significant shot you hit all year and why?  Just one.  
JASON DAY: Probably the up-and-down on 9 at the PGA.  After that awesome second shot.  Yeah, that was, I hit it clean.   
 Q.  The chunky one, right?  
JASON DAY: Yeah, it was a chunky one.  I hit it really fat.  But to get me to hit such a terrible shot and then come back and get up-and-down, it was a good momentum change for me, because I could have walked off there with a bogey and if Jordan would have holed his putt, there was a two-shot swing there, then he's alive.  Justin Rose is back in the game, and I may not be winning the PGA Championship.  Just from the momentum switch.  So that up-and-down to be able to hit a good pitch and get up-and-down, that's probably the biggest shot that I've had to hit.   
 Q.  After you won at Byron Nelson, your first victory, you shared with us that when you came from Australia, you thought you didn't have to do much, didn't have to practice, because people had told you how great you were and you can't miss.  Do you remember saying that?  
JASON DAY: Yeah, it's easy to get a big head, isn't it?  Sometimes I can't fit it through the bloody door.   
But you know what, I do remember that and I do remember slacking off, because I did think it was easy.  I came over and I'm like, everyone's going, no, this is the next great young guy that's going to take on Tiger Woods and I had a good year on the WEB.COM.  I think I had 10 top-10s and a win.  There was just a number of good finishes and I'm like full of confidence, young, and when you're that young and you're full of confidence, you don't say the greatest things.   
And then on top of it, you don't work as hard.  I think I was playing like eight hours of video games every day.  I mean I was just -- I did everything I possibly could not to play well and I did it and I didn't play well.   
So, I learned quickly to -- instead of going eight hours a day on video games probably go at least one or two hours at least and just make sure those other six hours you're practicing golf.   
 Q.  And to follow-up, Colin has been at your side since you were 12 years old.  I mean, your rise to No. 1, just judging by the things you have said, you couldn't have done it without him.  
JASON DAY: Oh, no doubt.  The guy works so hard.  We have all had -- we have all had our goals.  And our team goal has always been same thing, is get to No. 1.  Bud, Colin, Ellie, Cornell now who is my trainer now.  We have always wanted to get to No. 1.   
So to have a team that's always focused on trying to get better each and every week, and it's kind of a neat experience for Col too because he took a 12 year old kid who really didn't have a lot and turned him into the best player in the world.  So that's something that no one can ever take away from him.  Something that only I'm sure a very small amount of people have done that in certain sports.  So that's kind of a neat achievement for him.  So he's done it and he knows what he's done to get me there.   
But on top of it, everyone that's in my team works hard.  They work hard.  And to get to the top, you have to work hard in every aspect of your golf game, let alone all the other stuff that comes along with it.  Managing your time, managing media, managing people, managing fans, managing sponsors and all this other stuff, so it all takes time.   
 Q.  There's been a lot of talk about the new big three in golf.  Obviously you being a part of it with Rory and Jordan.  What's your take on that?  What do you think the three of you bring to the game as a whole and --  
JASON DAY: I think we can safely say that there's a fourth with Rickie Fowler.  But, go ahead what was the second part.   
 Q.  And I was going to say if you were going to compare your guys' games to Arnie, Jack and Gary, who would you think resembles most, as far as your game?  
JASON DAY: Between me and the --   
 Q.  Yeah, Rory, Jordan and you and the old big three.  
JASON DAY: Yeah, I don't know.  Oh I would like to say I'm a mix of all three.  That would be really good.  If we had to put it in words these days it's like Jordan Spieth and Rory McIlroy had a baby and I was it.   
(Laughter.)   
Because I've got -- I've got Rory's length and I'm hoping that I've got Jordan's touch.   
So, no, it's been fun to be a part of this whole group.  It really is.  It's kind of neat to be a part of, I'm going to say the big four, because I think golf is in such a good spot now with where we are with the youth of the game, how we're growing the game.  Not only what we're doing here, but also for the kids these days with -- you just have to look around at the fans, the kids that are following these kids or these guys.   
But just youthfulness of the game is in a fantastic spot for the future and the competitiveness between us all and the shear, just sportsmanship, is just great.  The back and forth is fantastic.  I'm enjoying myself, those guys are enjoying themselves and it's been great.   
 Q.  You got hot at a time when now you've got the off season coming up.  It's seven months still to the next Major Championship, four months really until Torrey Pines again.  Do you wish things could keep going at this point or are you confident that what you learned over the last month and a half is something that you can pick back up in seven months, in a year and everything and move forward?  
JASON DAY: I'm hoping that I can pick it back up in a couple months.  I'm definitely going to take some time off, because these days with rollover season we don't really get time.  We don't get time to relax and just kind of debrief how the year went, what we did well, what we need to improve, and every year I have a team meeting.  So, to be able to have some time off and try and focus on the stuff that I really need to improve on for next year is very important to me.  I think I need the time.  And I think I'll be able to pick it up.  I mean, I'm hoping that I'll be able to keep this play going.   
So I know what I've done to work -- how hard I've had to work to get this play going to where it is right now, so I've got to either do the same work or a little bit harder to try and improve myself.   
So I think I can do it, but I definitely need the time.  I would love to say I would love to keep going and keep playing, but it's been a long year, not only for myself and my team, but for my family.  I need to spend some time with them and really kind of be able to hang out with them.  Because I haven't really -- even though they're with me every week, I don't get to see them much.   
 Q.  Was there an epiphany moment on Monday.  You knew you were going to get to world No. 1, but did you check the Internet Monday morning?  Did it sink in with a text message or something, was there that one moment on Monday morning where it kind of dawned on you?  
JASON DAY: Other than Benjie and Bud sending me their text messages with their little screen shot of world No. 1 -- what did I do that day?  I think I woke up and got breakfast and kind of laid around all day.  I wasn't really thinking about it.   
It's something that to the effect of where I was just kind of relaxing with Dash and Ellie because Ellie's like, she's so close to having our second child, that she kind of passed him off on to me and I was with him the whole day.   
So, I was busy.  I didn't have time to kind of think about it too much.  But once again, it's neat to see my name up top.  I took a screen shot on my phone.  So just to have it for future.  So it -- just in case if I ever have to tell Dash at one point I'm like yeah, here, your old man was the best in the world at one point.   
 Q.  What do you use as motivation?  Are you an inspirational message type of guy?  Do you look at these kind of things?  
JASON DAY: Well, I do have mates that send me inspirational stuff, which is great.  I think it's fantastic because you always need mates like that.  What keeps me motivated is just trying to get better.  And enjoying the process more so than -- I enjoy winning, I love competing and contending on Sundays and trying to win tournaments.   
But you got to -- the one thing that keeps me motivated is you got to love improving, if I could say that.  You got to really enjoy going, okay, I suck at this area of my game, and I'm going to try and get it better.  And if you can sit there and slowly, incrementally get better each and every year from that, and enjoy that process of getting better, in six months to a year from now, you're going to -- your game is going to improve so much just because of how much time you've put into that area.  So, I almost enjoy the process of getting better and that's why -- that's what keeps me motivated.   
THE MODERATOR: Jason, thank you for your time.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT