TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2019
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Jason, golf is a weird game.  Sideways rain today and the round of the week out of you.
JASON DAY: Yeah, I know.  It wasn't too different to what I did yesterday.  I just unfortunately didn't birdie 14 and 15 yesterday and I doubled 16, so obviously that was just a little bit frustrating.
But to be able to turn it around and still play very similar golf to what I did yesterday, but just capitalize on the opportunity I had.
Q. I think people don't appreciate how good you are with speed control on greens.  When it's as wet as it is out here, how do you adjust through the course of a round when they start to get a little bit I guess skippy?
JASON DAY: And that's the thing.  We had a lot of on-off rain today.  Felt like it was coming in waves.  It would stop for a little bit and then it would rain again.
You know, I've just been practicing very, very hard trying to be disciplined over the last few weeks just to get my speed right.  Granted, they feel a little bit similar to what we had last week so that's a plus.
You're just trying to -- I don't know.  As the day goes on you feel like they're starting to get a little more bounce to it and definitely slower.  So when I'm going into a putt I just typically go, Okay, just give it a little bit more.  Don't let the ball explode off the putter face, but just give it a little bit more.
Q. Any grief from Stevie?  Now two weeks with a whole lot of umbrella work for him.
JASON DAY: Yeah, he said, he goes he would rather be mowing his lawn back home in New Zealand with the rain on him instead of coming out here.  He's glad to be back on the bag.
Q. 63s don't add up very fast.  Was that as much fun as it looked?
JASON DAY: It was.  I was very patient, especially after the start that I had.  Had four early in my round.  Kind of settled everything because I was on the outside looking in.
Shooting even par was a little bit disappointing yesterday.  To get off to that start today, I just kind of settled into it.  Just kind of pick away at the golf course.
Q. It looked to me that you're changing your trajectory on your irons quite a bit.
JASON DAY: Yes.
Q. Like some down flight, some up.
JASON DAY: Yes.
Q. It was pretty impressive.
JASON DAY: Well, that and obviously the 3-wood as well off the tee.  When Steve asks you to hit a shot, you definitely try to hit the shot if you can.  I've been working -- I had a ball change about two weeks ago.  My first event was U.S. Open with it.  So I went from a Red TP5X to a Black TP5.  It's softer.  I was able to get those flighted shots that we're talking about changing trajectory.  I can flight them up and flight them down.  Felt like it was just coming out too low, so it's been a plus since I've been going to that ball.  I'm able to gain a little bit more control.
Q. Didn't seem like there was much adjustment needed with the short game.
JASON DAY: No.  Been working hard on that.  Obviously haven't had the greatest year this year, so just trying to stay as disciplined as I can and just work my short game around the greens.  I hit a couple of decent chips.
Q. A lot of good chip shots.  Kind of seems like your year started last week when Stevie showed up.
JASON DAY: Pretty much.  Don't get me wrong, I've had some good finishes and but I'm focusing on this year, but I'm really focused on 2020.
Q. Just get some comments on your day, please.
JASON DAY: Yeah, it was good.  I think I only missed a few greens and maybe a few fairways.  Very similar to what I had yesterday.  Played some solid golf yesterday; just unfortunately made a mistake on 16.
It was disappointing to shoot even par yesterday because I know I played a lot better than the actual score showed.  To capitalize on the opportunities that I had out there today, I definitely need it.  It was nice to be able to settle into the round after birdieing four in a row on the back side, which was my front.
Q. Were you able to take that attitude knowing that you played better than your score yesterday on to the course and do something with it today?
JASON DAY: And that was my big thing, was that I just didn't quite putt as well as I should have.  I was 2-under par going into 14 and 15.  Had a legitimate chance at birdieing 14 from about eight, ten feet, and then not getting up and down on 15.
So instead of being at 4-under through 15 holes you're 2-under and then you double 16.  Just a poor mental error or 16.
I went to the putting green yesterday and tried to straighten it out a little bit.  Felt like I was starting the ball a lot better on line.
Q. Playing in these conditions doesn't bother you much?
JASON DAY: No.  It was a little bit frustrating, don't get me wrong.  It was a little bit frustrating because it just kept coming in waves.  It would stop for a little bit and start raining again.
To be honest, we're going to have some good weather over the weekend, so I'm pleased about that.  It's been a while since I've seen the sun.
Q. Did you hit the range last night as well?
JASON DAY: I did, yes.
Q. Is that part of you and Stevie just trying to make a concerted effort to...
JASON DAY: Yeah, yeah, pretty much when he asks you to do something you pretty much do it.  I went and chipped some, I hit balls on the range, and then I putted.  So right now I'm not pleased with how things have progressed so far with regards to my year.
And since having Steve on the bag we've definitely been a lot more disciplined about going to the range and putting green, chipping green after the round and making sure we're staying on top of it, especially with our feels.
I've got a lot of work.  Like we say, we're focusing on trying to win this year, but definitely trying to project and look forward to 2020.
Q. Is that just how it's working early, Stevie will let you know?
JASON DAY: He's very black and white.  Yeah, we're going to go over and hit some chips, hit some putts, just get out of here.  Because it is starting to get a little bit wet.  It's raining here now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT