BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 18, 2015
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. No 59, no eagle, no birdie, but still, a great round.
JASON DAY: You know, it's good.  To be honest, it was just one of those shots that was very difficult to make, especially out of the rough.  Selfishly you just try to get it as close as possible and give yourself a birdie and shoot 11-under.  59 would have been great, but trying to get that extra birdie, that was kind of the main goal, to try to get to 11-under, and then after that coming into a round like this where the wind is going to switch around for us in the second round and how wet the conditions are, it's obviously nice to get that -- overall it's a good round.  I'm not complaining at all.
Q. Did you warm up differently?  Did you practice 44-yard shots?
JASON DAY: Yeah, I did.  It's something where you just -- no matter how many shots you hit out there practicing, you can't really simulate what kind of lie you're going to get.  I put it back where it was, so it was a little furry, but I just overall hit a pretty good chip, but I thought it was just going to bounce a little bit more than what it did.  I was trying to hit it a little bit lower, get it kind of skipping a little bit more, kind of like Jordan's, and it just kind of came up a little short.
Q. You had your shot at history this morning, end up with a 10-under par 61.  Not a horrible consolation.  How much were you thinking about the 44-yard pitch shot before you had to hit it?
JASON DAY: Not a lot, actually.  You know, I said earlier, selfishly I'm just trying to -- it was a tough shot to hole.  I'm just trying to get to a low number.  If it didn't go in or if I didn't get it enough or whatever, I was just trying to get it somewhere around the hole where I could give myself a chance at birdie.  I know over the next few days it's going to be tough.  59 is obviously a great score, and only a handful of guys have done it, but the tournament is more important to me right now than the actual score.
Q. Obviously you had to come back and play a pitch shot, a shot that you're trying to hole.  What was the approach this morning knowing that you had that specific shot?
JASON DAY: It was just kind of practicing the distance, try and simulate what I was going to have.  After watching Jordan's shot come in, bouncing, skipping and then spinning, I thought it was going to -- I was trying to play something a little bit lower, trying to skip it in there, as well.  I just maybe landed it a little bit too far short, only by a yard or so, but I was just hoping that it was going to skip a little bit more.  It felt pretty firm under my feet when I was walking around on that green, and yeah, it just didn't come out the way I wanted it to, but I still have three days left, so I've got to keep pushing.
Q. How difficult was that shot this morning with the rough being wet?
JASON DAY: Geez, I don't know.  It would have been nice to finish yesterday because at least the rough would have been a little bit more dry, and the greens would have -- you would have known how it was going to react.  This morning you didn't really know how it was going to react, especially with Jordan's bouncing through and then spinning back.  I mean, obviously he hit a little wedge shot in there, but I was kind of trying to do the same, but that's obviously hard.  With wet grass it's going to roll off the face and come in a little hot, so I'm just trying to punch it in there low, somewhere just off the green and bounce it up.  It just landed maybe just a tad too short, a little too high on the trajectory, and that's why I pulled up a little short.
Q. Still a career best 61?
JASON DAY: Yeah.
Q. You've got to be extremely happy with that.
JASON DAY: Yeah, it sounds like everyone is disappointed.  I'm just trying to -- and like I said, selfishly, 59 would have been great, but right now I'm just trying to focus on winning the tournament.  I think that's more important than shooting the 59.  Only a handful of guys have shot 59, and I understand what the history is about that, but right now winning the tournament is more important.
Q. How much did you think about it last night?
JASON DAY: I didn't think about it at all.  I don't know, you know when you -- there's history about certain sports, but if you just -- I've never thought -- in my whole career I've never thought about shooting 59.  It's never been on my mind because I just thought it was so far out of my reach that I couldn't shoot 59.  To be honest, I wasn't really thinking about it because I never thought I'd have the opportunity to do it.  But then on top of it, my goal has always been getting to No. 1 and winning major championships.  I wasn't really kind of thinking about it.
Today when I walked out there and everyone is watching, I was like, whoa, this is kind of important.  And once again, selfishly, I wanted to get it as close as possible.  I mean, it's a tough shot to hole, but just trying to get that birdie to get to 11-under would have been nice.
Q. How do you try to practice that shot on the range?
JASON DAY: You know what, on the chipping green.  Right now, here at Conway Farms, they have an excellent practice chipping facility.  We had a shot that we were simulating that, but that's kind of what we were doing, just in the rough for at least 10 minutes this morning, just trying to get the feel for it.  Obviously it's a little different once you get out there and put the ball down, it sits down a little bit, and you're just trying to -- obviously when you're practicing you kind of give yourself a little bit of a tee or try and simulate that, but it's just hard to do it.
Q. Did you use a 60?
JASON DAY: Yeah.
Q. Are you ready to get on the attack again in a couple hours?
JASON DAY: Yeah.  Well, that's the plan right now, just try and attack as much as possible.  It's going to be very receptive out there.  I don't think the wind is going to be up as much as it was yesterday, which is good, but the tough thing about today is going from southwesterly all the way to west, then to north, so it's going to do a complete 180, and that's throughout the round.  So hopefully we can miss the weather and we can get this round in would be nice, but it's going to be tough to really understand where the wind is coming from, so we've just got to make sure that you pay attention to it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT