DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2015
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Jason Day is spending some time with us after a second consecutive 68.  It's now 22 straight rounds in the PGA Tour of par or better.  How would you assess how this one played out?  
JASON DAY: It was good.  I would have loved some putts to go in.  But I made some good putts coming in, so I can't be too greedy.  I'm hitting a lot of greens.  Unfortunately I'm not quite getting it close enough to the hole to really capitalize on it.  Overall it was a good start to the week.   
 Q.  You told me after the victory in Canada you proved you could do it, especially after the heartbreak at St. Andrews.  What are you now proving to yourself with the win at the PGA, the Barclays and another good start here?  
JASON DAY: You know, just all the hard work I put in is paying off.  I've got two days left and a lot of golf to be played.  Charley is playing some pretty good golf at 12-under.  He's going to be tough to catch.   
I think with how the weather is going to be, it's actually getting warmer the next two days, and I think the greens will probably bake out a little bit more, make it a little harder to get to pins.  And hopefully my game can come in and stay hot.   
 Q.  You really had to grind it out on those last seven or eight holes.  You birdied 10 and 11 and just a grind to the finish line?  
JASON DAY: Yeah, it wasn't too bad.  It was just the tee shots weren't as good as they were before, just really didn't hit a lot of fairways today.  But hit a lot of greens, which was nice.  Hitting a lot of greens, I missed fairways, and it's kind of unfortunate to have 30, 40-footers.  I'll just try to straighten it out for tomorrow.   
 Q.  From the forecast, it liked like the wind was down.  Yeah, the greens were firm, had some speed to them.  But no one was able to take it low in the afternoon.  
JASON DAY: It's just tough.  It's weird, it's -- the greens are also firm, they're quick, but it's playable, it's accessible.  You've got to give yourself the opportunities, but just holing putts is kind of difficult to do, to get them on line and get the right speed.  I felt like it was just a hair slower today than it was yesterday.  And with that slight change of speed it kind of messes with our heads.   
 Q.  You're 36 holes away to a week off, run to the finish line?  
JASON DAY: Yes, I've got two more days to grind it out and then a week off after that.  I'm going to do everything I possibly can to go out and play well.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
JASON DAY: I really didn't have the confidence in my tee shots.   
 Q.  How hard was it to see Jordan struggle the way he did the last two days?  
JASON DAY: Yeah, I played with him last week, as well.  It's kind of similar stuff.  It looked like he was just uncomfortable, made some mental errors, and felt like he was behind the 8-ball a little bit and kind of pushed it a little bit.  But who knows what's going through his head.  It's difficult to say what he's feeling, what he's going through emotionally.  Because it is a lot of pressure for a 22 year old.  It's very, very hard to reach that No. 1 position and hold it there.   
 Q.  Seems like you got in a lot of difficult positions early on?  
JASON DAY: Yeah.   
 Q.  You had a few good breaks.  
JASON DAY: A few good breaks, a few bad breaks.   
 Q.  How did you kind of pull those out, even on 18?  
JASON DAY: Yeah, it's just something you've got to keep trying to pushing forward.  Because that 18th hole, the way the green sits and everything like that, I just think it's just -- I'm not going to say anything about it, I won't say anything.  I just need to play better, that's all I need to do.  And that's an easy way to make it a fix for me is to play a little better, and I can't complain about something when I'm not playing well.   
There's some good breaks out there for me and some bad breaks.  But once again, I just need to drive the ball a lot straighter.  If I drive the ball straighter then I can get a shorter club in my hand and get some spin and be able to attack some of these pin locations.  I thought that some today were very gettable.  But it's hard to get it close to the hole.   
 Q.  Are you disappointed when you sit back and assess the two days?  
JASON DAY: It's not so much disappointed, it's more disappointed with my driver.  And it's not so much about where I hit it, it's more the shots I hit.  It's more so just the trust.  And I haven't had it.  I just haven't had that trust and commitment that I've had.  Getting out there and just freewheeling.  I'm just going to go out there and try to work out some things.   
 Q.  When you go through that pre-shot routine, what's going through your mind at that point?  Any shot?  
JASON DAY: Sometimes it's just get on the fairway.  Sometimes it's get on the green.  But most of the time when I get away from what I should be doing I hold myself back.  It's what you try to feel.  When I do that I go straight in.  When I'm really hitting at it, ripping at it, I feel like I can release the ball better and just go straight.  Right now it's kind of turning a lot and then I try to slow it down and then from there you have commitment issues.  I'm just going to try to hit on the right path and aim a little better, and hopefully I'll get the ball to come around and hopefully get it straightened out tomorrow.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT