THE BARCLAYS
August 27, 2015
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you go through the MRI on your back?
JASON DAY: Yeah, I had an MRI yesterday.
Q. Do you have ongoing treatment?
JASON DAY: We wanted to see -- my trainer/physio, Cornell, texted me and tried to get in contact with me.  We were talking before the FedExCup Playoffs, so last week, trying to get an MRI on my back just to really see how things are going structurally.
Then it ended up kind of in a perfect world where I kind of tweaked my back Tuesday night.  Wednesday ended up having to take off and going to one of the hospitals down here in New Brunswick near Rutgers to get an MRI on my back and structurally, everything has improved since last year.  Everything I'm going in the gym is working.  Really trying to push that disc back in.
Just something you put yourself in a vulnerable position bending over and turning, sometimes it can just tweak a little bit and that's unfortunate how it happened.  But I'm doing everything I possibly can to try and relax the back spasms that I have.
Q. How bad was it after the drive on 16?  Was that the worst it was today?
JASON DAY: 12 and 16 were two drives where I just tried to hit a little bit hard and once in transition happened.  With my swing with how quick everything goes, it kind of crunches down on -- the facet joint crunches down on the disc at certain points, and once I felt that at the top of the swing, then just everything kind of fell off balance and hooked it.
There were a couple of swings out there that hurt.  That one on 16 after that marvelous pitch shot definitely hurt.  But once everything started warming up, got loose and I was fine after that.
Q. I'm a little lost, you had an MRI before the FedExCup as an update and you ended up getting one anyway after the tweaking?
JASON DAY: Yes.  I wanted to make sure that I prepped coming into this week and with all of the work that I had to do last week with the media and the sponsors and everything like that, I just didn't have enough time to get away and do it during the MRI.  You're in that machine for a long time and you're there before, it takes up to like three hours just kind of sitting around, waiting around and stuff.  It didn't fit in the schedule, making sure that I was mentally and physical --
Q. But you had to fit it in the schedule by tweaking your back.
JASON DAY: I had to.  After I did what I did on Tuesday, I had to make sure I fit it in.
Q. How did you tweak it?
JASON DAY: I was just moving something -- it was a box and I was just pulling it under the bus.  It's just the weirdest things.  I've done it where I've picked up a pillow and just if you put yourself in a weird situation and you've had back problems before, sometimes it can just set things off.  It's weird.  I've done it just bending over.
Q. Given your injury history, when you felt that tweak, you finally had momentum going your way; what is going through your mind?
JASON DAY: It's a little disappointing because I shouldn't have been doing what I was doing, just moving stuff around.
But you know, I feel like I'm young and I feel like I can -- sometimes you feel like you're invincible.  You've got to understand that you don't need to be doing that stuff.  It's a little frustrating and disappointing on my half, just to really understand that I wanted to come into this week fully prepared.
Yesterday was going to be a practice round for me, and I was a little disappointed because I didn't see the course until today.  But you know, you've just got to take it as it is and understand you shouldn't be moving stuff under your bus and just be careful next time.
Q. And Ellie couldn't do it either.
JASON DAY: It's tough.  It wasn't a heavy box.  It can happen just out of the blue.
Q. So what do you think of the course and how did you play today?
JASON DAY: I played good.  Hit a lot of fairways, hit a lot of greens.  The tough part is really just trying to get the ball next to the pin.  Bubba out there had a couple of kick-ins, which was fantastic.  But you leave yourself above the hole here, you're putting defense, and it's just tough to try to get it started on the right line.
The greens are perfect, but you just get it off the wrong line, off the putter face going down these quick greens, it's tough to hole them.
Q. What if we told you before the round you would lose to Bubba by three and beat Jordan by six?
JASON DAY: It would be a surprise to me.  Not so much Bubba's but Jordan.  And he just looked a little flat.  It's understandable with all the stuff that he's been doing.  He's young but for him to come out and just be a little flat, it's hard.
I mean, he's done so much this week and leading up to these weeks, and he's played so good this year.  But yeah, he's going to bounce back tomorrow.  He's got that fire in the belly right now that he really wants to come back and play well tomorrow.
Q. What was it like to play with him so soon?  What was that vibe like playing together?
JASON DAY: It was good.  Obviously we tried to keep the momentum rolling from the PGA.  It's all fun because we always say to each other after the round, "It was a good fight out there.  "We enjoy playing and competing against each other, so that's the challenge out there.
Q. How nice is it to get a scorecard back in your pocket?
JASON DAY: Get a scorecard back in my pocket?
Q. After the events of last week.
JASON DAY: It's just good to be back on the road.  Good to be back out here playing and good to get the competitive juices flowing again.  To be able to come back after a week off and getting back into the mode again is really good.
I've got two weeks in a row, a week off, two weeks in a row, week off and then Presidents Cup.  I'm heading into the final part of my season and I want to finish off strong.
So I've just got to keep at it and try and do the best I can.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT