PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2015
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








These quotes were acquired courtesy of Gary D'Amato of the Milwaukee Journal-Sentinel, who graciously served as a designated pool reporter.
Q. Dreams and talents and not much else.  Talk about your sense of accomplishment for completing this journey today.
JASON DAY: The path that I was on was never expected for me to be here where I was today.  Being able to -- I lose my dad at 12, and then meet Colin and have him walk the journey with me and have him walk up the 18th hole with me was just a special, special thing, that I could never forget, special experience that I could never forget.  It's just an amazing feeling I have.
Q. What kind of inner battle did you have today to stay in the moment and not get ahead of yourself and were there times when you got out of that and had to pull yourself back in?
JASON DAY: Yeah, there were plenty of times when I got out of it, more so just thinking about the future, especially on the back side there were a few times where I had to pull myself back in and say it's not over, you've got to keep grinding, keep fighting.  And once I did that I kind of pulled myself back and started hitting the quality shots that I needed to.  Just to be able to finish with a birdie on 16 and two pars on 17 and 18 felt fantastic.
Q. You've set the all-time scoring record for a major championship, 20-under par.  What does that mean to you?
JASON DAY: I did not know that.  That was a pretty amazing accomplishment.  But that does feel good.  I never knew that I set the record.  It's a fantastic record to hold.  There's been such amazing golfers, especially throughout the history of golf, our sport, and to have that record just goes to show the work I've put in is paying off.
Q. How much did today's round feel like work and how much did it feel like fun?  Were you having fun out there?
JASON DAY: I had a lot of fun, but it still felt -- it didn't feel like work, it felt like I was mentally and physically grinding it out as hard as I could.  I wasn't going to stop fighting until it was over.
I enjoyed the 18th hole when I had about a half foot putt, so that was fantastic.  It was a fantastic day for me, personally, and something I'll never forget.
Q. What did you tell yourself after the shot on 9, the second shot?
JASON DAY: I just kind of -- one of those shots, we were talking about it a little bit before, where I had to just pull myself back into where I needed to be and just grind it out.  That was just a terrible shot that happened at the wrong time.  And being able to get up and down definitely helped to keep the momentum going.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT