PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2015
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
JASON DAY: Yeah, it was good to come back this morning.  We wouldn't have had time last night to come back out, and I think the PGA did a fantastic job with pulling us off and sending us back early.   
Come out this morning with fresh greens, they felt good.  Kind of caught me by surprise on 16 by how much they ran out, and then 17 and 18 was a nice surprise where I pulled up short.  I hit a nice drive on 16, I was really kind of iffy on hitting driver there on 16, just because I saw the juniper bush on the right and the bunkers down the right, and I knew that I could get in there.  Long story short, D.J. ended up hitting in the bunkers there and couldn't go at the green.  So to be able to hit 3-wood down the middle and 3-wood on the green and then 2-putt for birdie was pretty nice.   
But I'm still -- I gave myself opportunities on the greens, didn't really hit it close on 17 and 18, but overall feel pretty happy with the position I'm in going into round three.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
JASON DAY: Hopefully not a lot.  I've put myself in the position, so the only thing I have to change is the end result.  That has to wait until round four, late in round four.   
So, right now, I just really got to focus on round three and see how the guys go this morning.  I mean, it really gives me a good sense of where the guys, how the guys are playing, and how the course is playing, just seeing how many guys are under par.  And I'm going to be off this afternoon, so it's going to be fun to see how under par they get or if the course is playing harder.  That will give me a good indication of I need to be a lot more patient today or I need to attack the course a little bit more.   
 Q.  As frustrating as it probably has been for you to get so close this many times, can you see any lesson or experience from it?  
JASON DAY: Yeah, I just think that it's easy for some people to get there quicker than others.  Some people make it look easier than others.   
The experiences that I've had in the past in previous finishes, I think it's just really kind of setting me up for something big in the future.  And I just really have to keep plodding along and really keep doing the stuff that I'm working on, because clearly it's working for me through three and a half rounds.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
JASON DAY: Differently?  Nothing, really.  I've been working, I've been very motivated this year, been working very hard, especially on my game and my body.  My body's changed a lot.  Just trying to get a lot more healthy.  And I think that with all the work that I've put in, it's paying off, which is fantastic.   
And this is my first season that I've had two wins in one season, and I'm looking to change that to a three-win season right now.  But I've just got to be patient with myself and not get too far ahead of myself.  I mean, it's the old cliche where you need to stay in the present, but it's true.  And I wish I could say anything better than that, but it's just how it is.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
JASON DAY: I'm not really feeling anything at all right now.  I feel pretty relaxed.  I haven't had any time to think.  I get back to the bus and I'm playing with Dash and don't get to watch the Golf Channel or anything like that, so I don't see what they're saying.  I don't see any golf.   
The only time I get to see any golf is when I look at my phone.  And, no, I feel pretty good.  The way that I'm playing, even if I wasn't hitting it that great, I still, I've just been here before, so I know that it's not the right time to get panicked.  Because once you get anxious and start panicking, I guess things start to multiply and that's when you start making mental errors and making mistakes.  So I just know that if I make a mistake, it's okay, I've just got to keep plodding along and be patient and hopefully it falls.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
JASON DAY: I just felt different that last round.  Obviously, playing with Jordan, it would be nice to hole the putts that he holes from 30 feet, but it's just to be able to be patient with myself and not -- and have a bogey-free round.  Even though I made two birdies in the final round, I had a bogey-free round.  To be able to do that in a Major Championship, especially on the last day, is pretty special.  And I played good that -- I played good that whole week, and then to capitalize on it the next week as well definitely helped.   
 Q.  You may be playing with another Aussie this afternoon.  What do you know about Jones?  
JASON DAY: We're good mates.  I never really knew Jonesy too well growing up, because he came over to the States to go to college, and I never heard of him until I actually came over here and started playing.  He's got a lot of game.  Obviously you can tell by where he is right now.  He seems like he's pretty comfortable with how he is, and his brother's playing this week, I'm not too sure how that's going, but it's pretty neat to have your brother in the same championship as he's playing.  But I think he's had a pretty good season.  I don't watch too much golf, but I've seen his name up there a couple times and seems like he's having a good day.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
JASON DAY: It feels good.  It feels really good to be able to know that I'm always going to be contending in a Major.  Knowing the consistency that I've had, it's there, because it just shows that I can play on any golf course, which is great.   
Links golf, American style golf, I feel like my game is suited to most golf courses, but it's good that I can step up in the big Majors and play the way I play.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
JASON DAY: Yeah, I mean, the confidence is, the confidence part is huge, especially with what we do.  The way I played at the U.S. Open and going on to the British, it's just all kind of been trending in the right direction.  But I think it's all in the process that I've had.  So, it's all the work that I put in weeks and weeks and weeks before that that's kind of prepared me for this.  To really understand what the winning score or so called winning score will be that week, what holes I'm playing great, what holes I'm playing bad, really you kind of understand my stats on that certain golf course, that definitely helps.   
I've had a previous start here at Whistling Straits which was five years ago, so it's good to go back on those stats and have a look what holes I played good and what holes I played bad and try and change the strategy.  Is it mental?  Is it a number of things?   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT