PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2015
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  After that birdie on 17, it looked like you were studying the leaderboard on 18.  Any thoughts on that?  
JASON DAY: On 18?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
JASON DAY: Well, I didn't know if I was playing with Spieth or who.  And I'm playing with Spieth.  So it should be a exciting round tomorrow.  I'm really looking forward to it.   
But today was a good day.  There was some mistakes here and there, but overall I hit a lot of good quality iron shots, hit a lot of great drives out there, drove the ball really well.   
But I'm very pleased with how I'm putting.  So, one more day left.  I got to keep pushing forward, keep grinding, keep doing the best I can do out there and see how it goes tomorrow.   
 Q.  You must be pretty happy with the putting?  
JASON DAY: Yeah, just to be able to knock that one in on 17, especially after the frustrating par on 16 was -- I hit two great, I hit a great drive there and a good 3-wood there expecting to be up on the fringe somewhere and it was deep in some heavy rough.  And to walk off with par there was pretty frustrating for me.   
So to come back with birdie on 17, a lot of emotion came out of me, just to really get back at it and I'm really excited about tomorrow.  To me I'm looking at it as it's going to be a really fun day.  I can only get better from this and it should be an exciting challenge playing against Jordan.   
 Q.  To follow-up on that, mentally, emotionally, what do you think you need to manage tonight and tomorrow, which is going to be a long morning and afternoon before you tee it up?  What do you need to do?  
JASON DAY: To be honest, I haven't had too much to think about it over the last few days, especially with all the delays and the turnaround and I definitely won't watch any golf.  I won't read any articles for sure.  Won't be watching you.  (Laughter.)   
But just spend time with the family.  I haven't really seen them this week and to be able to spend some quality time with them is nice.   
But I've been here before, so I kind of know what to expect.  I haven't won before, so that's something that is possibly a new experience for me tomorrow.  But overall, I've just got to rest up as best I can tonight because I did come out this morning and play early and then had to wait around and then come out later on in the day and play.  So rest is important, recovery is very, very important for me and just enjoying tomorrow is my main key.   
 Q.  What did you learn about the course, the way it would play this afternoon, from the holes you had to finish?  
JASON DAY: Not too much change, really.  The PGA set this golf course up fantastic.  I think it's a very challenging course.  If you're driving the ball well, it definitely makes things a lot easier coming into greens, but not much change at all.  The greens were running obviously a little bit smoother, but today, this afternoon the greens were perfect and there's not much I could really say.  It was very receptive out there and a lot of the guys attacked it.  There was a lot of low scores out there today.   
 Q.  Would you say your confidence level is as high as it's been all year?  
JASON DAY: Right now, yes.  You know what?  It's just -- my confidence level is high, but I'm just more enjoying just being out on the golf course, rather than in previous positions that I've had in Major Championships, I've viewed them as very stressful and kind of hard to go out and play the next day.  But I'm enjoying myself so much on the golf course.  It's been fun to be out here in pressure situations.  It's good to be in contention, especially on Sunday.  It's good to have the lead, so that's a plus.   
To be able to do what I did, especially on the last three days, put myself in position here, I've done what I need to do, now I've just got to focus on round four and just kind of keep pushing forward.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
JASON DAY: It was just -- I didn't expect -- several lies on the front nine were a little iffy, and 2 was just a sloppy bogey.   
Then 4 wasn't that great of a pitch.  I got myself out of trouble with my second shot and then just hit a poor pitch.   
But the double bogey on 16, I hit a great drive, hit kind of an average 5-iron in there and didn't expect to have so much sand.  I was just saying earlier, it doesn't matter if you're a good bunker player here, it kind of equals everyone out.  Just because of, as you get some lies here, it plugs when it rolls into the bunkers here.  So every time you are hitting out of a bunker, it feels like you're in a plugged lie.   
But to be able to come back and birdie the hole, especially from 9 all the way through 13 and 14 with a par on 12, and then birdieing 17 definitely helped.  And I'm just happy with how everything went today.   
 Q.  What was your club at 17?  
JASON DAY: 4-iron.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT