PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2015
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You need to be Spiderman to walk this course.  
JASON DAY: Yeah, it feels like it.  I felt good out there today.  We got off to a pretty good start with the wind being a little bit quieter this morning, rather than this afternoon.  I feel like we have got the better side of the draw currently right now.  And fortunately for us we got out there and got to attack the golf course.  We only got kind of the really brute force of the wind coming in the last few holes.   
But happy with a 68.  I think it's a good start.  And with three days left, we'll see how it goes.   
 Q.  You hung in there without having your best early on, and you ended up with a 68.  
JASON DAY: Yeah, I missed two greens with a wedge today in my hand.  It's just, I don't know what it is.  It's just, it was a little sloppy on 11, which is my second hole of the day.   
But it's the start of the week.  Can't really panic too much.  Plenty of golf left.  So if I made a mistake early, I knew that there was opportunities coming in, of what the scores were actually being posted at that time.  Early, those 2-, 3-, even 4-unders early in the rounds showed me that there was birdies out there to be taken.  So, I just kind of hung in there and then once I got my first birdie that got my game going and I started driving the ball a lot better, hit a lot of good greens and felt like I putted pretty solid today.   
 Q.  When you make a bogey like Rickie did and come back with a birdie, how hard is that or how important is that in general?  
JASON DAY: I think when you have a bad hole like that it sometimes takes the edge off looking at your score as much.  And I wouldn't be surprised to see the stat on what guys, when they have a double or worse, to really see what they come back with the next hole.  Because usually it does take the edge off.   
Other than that, Rickie played great.  He played solid and he was just unfortunate with where his ball finished on that par 3 and there was no way he could have got up over that hill.  And he tried it twice and it went sideways from there.  Yeah, it's just tough to see, because I just did it last week as well, so, I know exactly how he feels.  And there's plenty of golf left and he still has a lot of chances out there.   
 Q.  Is it a sign of maturity when you don't get off to a great start that you hang in there?  
JASON DAY: Well, the biggest thing I always think, okay, if you can get a couple on the back side, 11 was very doable to make a birdie there, just from seeing where Dustin hit it down there on the fairway.  But yeah, just to be really patient with myself and know that there's four par-5s out here that you can really attack and take advantage of.  And then getting through the front nine with 2-under and then eagling the second hole was really nice to do.   
I was really trying to think, okay, if I can get 68 or better that would be a good start, with considering the wind.   
 Q.  There's so much talk about Dustin this week.  What were your impressions of him today?  
JASON DAY: Solid.  He had a couple putts coming home to get to 7, possibly 8, if he holed the one on the par-3 and the par-4.  I mean, he's driving it longer than everyone else right now and driving it very straight, gave himself a lot of opportunities on the greens, just some of the putts he had, he hit good putts, they just didn't go in for him.  So it was very close from shooting a 6-under par round to 8- or 9-under par round.  And that's how it falls sometimes.   
So, there's plenty of golf to be played, everyone's trying to win, and I'm trying to win my first, he's trying to win his first, so we'll see how it goes.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
JASON DAY: Me?  Okay (Laughter.).   
Yeah, no, I wouldn't go down that line.  He pulled it a little bit.  He knew it.  He was just going, he was -- if it bounced straight, it would have gone straight through, so there's a little bit of luck involved when it kind of kicked way left for him.  And it's very easy to run out.  Because it was out of the left, and I nearly ran through, and that line is 345 yards to the end, so position is very key off that tee.  So, if there's any chance of downwind for the longer hitters, it's usually 3-wood down there.   
So, no, once again, he gave himself an opportunity, he put himself on the green and just unfortunately missed the putt.  So right now he's putting himself in positions where 95, 99 percent of the players that are playing this week aren't there.  So, with stuff like that, and like especially 4, for instance, hitting it way down over the hill with the wind in, that's just freakish to be able to do that and come in with a sand wedge is really a joke.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT