WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 6, 2015
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JASON DAY: It was good to get the save on 9.  Felt like I got a little bit unlucky with some of the stuff that happened out there today.  I think that was the worst score I probably could have shot maybe today -- or even par, if I didn't get up and down on 9. Regardless, I'm pretty happy because it was playing pretty tough out there today.  It was just really hard.  I think we counted up, it was probably about seven putts where you'd possibly give yourself an uphill or level putt at the hole, and the majority of the time you're putting downhill and defensive. With that said, with how the greens were bouncing and how fast the greens were, it was just tough to really kind of take advantage of any sort of close shot with a downhill putt.   Q.  Will it get tougher as it gets hotter?  It's supposed to be hotter, 88 and 90 the next three days.  JASON DAY: I'm looking forward to it.  It should be fun.  The harder, the better, I guess. It's a tough little track here.  Even though there's some tees up and we're getting pretty good numbers into the holes, it was tough to get really close to the pin.  So something like this, you've got to be very patient.  You've got to hit the fairways.  It's very difficult to shoot any sort of score when you're missing fairways.  You miss fairways, you can't get close to the pin, you're leaving yourself 30-, 40-footers all day, if not missing the greens.  You can't keep making 30-, 40-footers unless you do it in speed.   Q.  You had it going left a little bit today, but you still managed to finish under par.  Got to be something good to take from it.  JASON DAY: I don't know where it came from.  I kept going left and left and left.  And then I started fighting myself a little bit out there.  I just try to get up there and commit to the shot.  When it's going left at the start and then you start missing a few right and then you start fighting yourself, it's very tough to commit to a shot.  So I was just trying to trust myself as much as possible. I played actually very decent.  I played pretty solid from tee to green.  I mean, it wasn't outstanding, but it was some good shots.  I hit a lot of close shots that I didn't take advantage of, but it was a good opening round of 69. There's still rounds left, and currently 3-under is leading.  So I can't really see -- I can see maybe a 4 or 5 out there maybe, but it's going to be tough this afternoon to do it.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT