RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 26, 2015
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  I'm here with our champion, Jason Day.  What is it with you and national opens?  First the U.S. Open, you came so close, last week at St. Andrews you came even closer.  This week at the Canadian Open, you pull it off.  JASON DAY: I've got the ball to the hole this time, which was nice.  There is just no better feeling than just really coming down to the wire and contending with these guys.  It was just back and forth all day.  I'm just so glad that I got that putt in.  It just feels so good right now.   Q.  I was having flash backs to last week on Sunday, 18th hole, downhill, left to right.  Eerily similar to this one.  Did you have flashbacks at that moment?  JASON DAY: First thing I said was I've got to get to the hole this time.  That's what I said in my head.  I gave myself an opportunity out there and I took it which was great.  To be able to do that just gives me a lot more confidence going into the rest of the season.  Right now I'm going to try to soak it in as much as possible.  I played great all week, and I feel good about my form.   Q.  Lastly, how's your health doing?  You doing well now?  JASON DAY: I'm feeling good.  I feel really good.  I'm going to take next week off.  The last two weeks have been a big grind for me, but it's all worth it.  All the hard work that I put into it.  It's my fourth win in my career, and I'll hopefully have many more, but right now I'm so proud to be the Canadian Open champion.   Q.  How does it feel to be the Canadian Open champion?  JASON DAY: For it to be the third oldest tournament, and to come off what happened last week and be able to get the putt to the hole this time and come out as a winner, it just feels fantastic.   Q.  Is it vindication for the hard work paying off?  JASON DAY: Yeah, it really is.  I've been putting in a lot of work, not only with my golf game, but with my body as well.  Mentally I feel like I was in the right spot coming into this week, and I played fantastic.  I was very happy with that.   Q.  You got yourself 1-under through the turn.  The back nine started with that.  Let's look at this par save on 12.  How big was this?  JASON DAY: Well, this was amazing because what actually happened was the rough of the chip was very difficult, to be able to get that putt in and get that momentum rolling into the back nine.   Q.  You're getting so used to getting yourself in contention week-in and week-out.  If there is anyway to finish a golf tournament, that's it, isn't it?  Two birdies.  First look at 17?  JASON DAY: I hit a magnificent drive down there and I only had 169 yards and it would 180, and keep it going into 18.  I knew that David and Bubba behind me they were playing really well, and I needed to do something, especially on the last hole.   Q.  And on that last, I had to stand and watch from the fairway while you did this.  I think it's fair to say from your reaction afterwards you knew how big this moment was?  JASON DAY: Yeah, it had glimpses of last week.  I just made sure I wanted to get it to the hole.  I mean, it feels good.  It really feels good.  I was so happy to do that.  That's what we practice for.  That's what we try to play so hard for.  I'm really glad to be the Canadian Open champion.   Q.  What's this do now for you going forward in terms of confidence and the PGA coming up?  JASON DAY: Yeah, I've got a week off, and then I have the WGC and the PGA.  But confidence-wise, my confidence is over the moon right now.  I'll get back to work late next week.  WGC is my next one. But for right now I'm going to try to soak it in as much as possible.  These are very hard to come by, and I'm looking forward to celebrating.   Q.  Jason, congratulations.  You willed yourself again.  You had those little hiccups on the front nine at the end, dabbled along with pars and then birdied the last three.  JASON DAY: Yeah, surprisingly it was actually quite tough today.  I was just trying to stay as patient as I could.  The save on 12 was crucial for me to keep the momentum rolling.  But coming in, 16, 17, 18, and birdieing those built confidence.  Having those guys behind me watch me, it was a special putt on 18.  It was just fantastic.  To go there, you could obviously tell by my reaction how pumped I was.   Q.  I was standing to the left of 18 green at St. Andrews on Monday when your putt came a millimeter short of getting you into the playoff.  I thought about that.  I told the listeners, here he is again on the 72nd hole.  I think you knew halfway there it was going to go in.  JASON DAY: Yeah, well, once I hit the putt I knew because it was going to be a quick cut down there.  As soon as I hit the putt I just, for some reason, I just knew it was going to break right to left back down that hill.  Six feet out I was just like oh, man, this is going to be good.  Fortunately for me it fell in, and I was just over the moon.  I yelled before everyone else yelled, so that was a good feeling.   Q.  What's it feel like to win again on the TOUR?  JASON DAY: Oh, this is why we practice so hard.  We're trying to chase greatness, and I've been working so hard on the course and off the court with my body and mental stuff.  It feels really good to be able to put the work you put in and for it to pay off.   Q.  Does Dash get a bird now?  JASON DAY: We'll see.   Q.  We have Jason Day, the 2015, RBC Canadian Open champion.  Jason, after your close call last week at the Open Championship you had that putt to go to the playoff.  You have this putt today on 18.  What was going through your mind?  JASON DAY: As soon as I walked up to the green, it was very similar in distance.  For some reason in my mind I just said make sure you get it to the hole this time.  I'm glad I did.  But it's just an amazing feeling, really, to be able to have a putt like that on the last hole with guys standing behind me, knowing that they have to force something to get in the playoff. To be able to do that was really, really special.  It's what we practice for and what we try so hard to try to chase greatness.  I mean, it feels really good to be the Canadian Open champion.   Q.  You talked about it in one of the press conferences that you wanted to win this because it is the Open Championship of Canada and the nation.  How much does it mean to you to win this event because it is so prestigious?  JASON DAY: It's a huge tournament.  I've had nothing but support this week.  The Canadian fans have been fantastic to me.  It's just tremendous to have the trophy and put my name on the trophy.  I'm down in history now.  It's just a really good feeling.  Whenever you win an Open Championship of any country, you're doing something good.  For it to come after what happened last week and to be able to sink that putt, I'm just over the moon right now.   Q.  With the 2015 RBC Canadian Open champion, Jason Day.  How does that sound to you?  JASON DAY: Sounds good.  Obviously coming off last week and having a close call, if I had hit my putt stroke just a little harder (Indiscernible) at the British.  Walking down that 72nd hole today, knowing I had to birdie it, with where the guys were on the fairways back there, man, it feels good.  It feels really good to be able to hit the putt, get it in, hole it, and just celebrate after.   Q.  Where does that putt rank for you of the ones you've made in your career?  JASON DAY: Oh, that's obviously -- right now it's No. 1.  Hopefully I'll have plenty of those putts, but to be able to do that for birdie on the last three holes.   Q.  Your first time here.  You're coming back next year to defend, I'm sure.  What's this course now, these fans, this country mean to you?  JASON DAY: I mean, I've had so much support here.  They're really truly some of the best fans I've ever played in front of.  I'm being clapped on to the tee boxes.  I felt like I'm a Canadian.  Everyone here is great.  They're the nicest people you can ever meet.  It's just fun to play in front of people like that.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT