THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2015
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MIKE WOODCOCK: We'll make a start.  We'd like to welcome Jason Day to the interview room.  Jason, that's a tremendous round of 5-under-par 67 today.  You're tied for the lead as it stands going into the final round.  Can you take us through your thoughts on today's round, please?JASON DAY: Yeah, it was obviously a fun event today just to see the scores the way they were going up pretty quick through the front side.  Definitely a lot more, I guess, attack, attackable, especially on the front side, and even on the back.  But I mean, there was hardly any wind, and the weather was pretty solid today.  It was pretty nice. You know, overall, I'm pretty pleased.  It was easy to look at the leaderboards and try and force the hand at trying to make birdies and really try and chase it, but I tried to stay as patient as I possibly could and gave myself opportunities, and glad to be at the top of the leaderboard tied for the lead going into tomorrow's round.Q. As a regular contender in majors now, is there anything you've learned from all those previous experiences that you now think, right, tomorrow maybe I can do something a little different and make the outcome a little different now tomorrow?JASON DAY: Yeah, it would be just to beat everyone else.  No, I think it's just over the last few years that I've played and been in contention at major championships, I've learnt -- I felt like I've learnt a lot.  I think the biggest thing for me is just to -- just understand that tomorrow is going to be a tough round.  There's going to be a lot of wind, there's going to be a lot of rain, there's going to be a lot of guys that are going to shoot low scores.  It's a pretty tight leaderboard if you look at it.  There's a lot of good players that are behind us trying to chase that lead.  Trying not to get so absorbed and attached to the leaderboard, and pretty much what I did today, just to really stay patient and let the birdies come to you, really focus on what I need to do to try and get the ball as close to the pin as I can and give myself opportunities. It's going to be fun.  It's going to be a good challenge.  I think I need to just embrace it more.  It's hard to -- as I was saying earlier, it's hard to stay present in situations like this.  It's hard to not get out in front of yourself, especially tonight when you're thinking and you're laying in bed, even through the round tomorrow.  It can be hard to stay present.  That's one key that I'm going to try and do the best I can is really just kind of focus on myself and be present as much as possible.Q. I know Tiger played very poorly, but you played two rounds with one of the greatest golfers of all time who's won here twice.  Was that a help to you in any way?JASON DAY: I mean, it's good to be mates with him.  Every time I'm playing or in contention, he always sends a text message to me saying, you know what you need to do.  As we were walking off the green yesterday, he just said, go get it done, you know what you need to do, like always.  To be able to play golf against one of the best -- arguably one of the best in the world or the best in the world, the winner of 14 majors and I think 79 PGA Tour events and countless victories around the world, to be able to hear that come from -- that advice come from that person is just -- it gives you a boost of confidence just to know that you're doing the right things and so on, that good, but really believes in your skills.Q. Not only is this leaderboard tight, but it's packed with believable around winners.  There's so many names up there you could see being Open Champions.  When you talk about patience, does that change the equation at all, that so many of these people seem likely winners?JASON DAY: Yeah, it feels like it's the usual kind of five players that are up there.  You know, there's so many people that can win this event.  I think the only way that you're going to come out is you've got to keep fighting until it's over.  Anyone can win this event.  You just don't know how the weather is going to be, how the leaders are going to fare.  Sometimes playing with a person that's not playing that great can affect you, as well.  There's a number of factors that can affect a player playing tomorrow. I can't afford to think about other people.  I can't afford to look at their scores or see how they're playing, if they're charging up the leaderboard on the front nine.  I've got to just be patient and just let it happen.  That's kind of what I've learnt over the last few years.Q. When you spoke about detaching yourself and staying present, are there any particular techniques you use when you're co-leader overnight and going into the last few holes out in front?JASON DAY: I think just going through the process of really getting the number right, talking it out with Colin, my caddie, really just kind of telling him what I need to do going into either the drive or the shot into the greens, and really being fully involved in the process of that, I think going and trying to execute that shot.  That's the biggest thing.  Before in previous starts where I was in contention, I was kind of out of sync.  I wasn't really talking to Colin that much.  I was just getting up there and trying to hit it on the run.  That's kind of what being present and not being present is like.  It's just that you have to be fully involved in the process before and make sure that everything is 100 per cent correct and then just try and go and execute the shot and be committed to that swing, whether it's going to be a draw or a cut, and whatever it does, you know, the outcome is the outcome, and then you've just got to try to get it in the hole on the next shot.Q. When you're out there today early and you saw many names going up top but specifically Spieth at the top of the leaderboard, were you sitting there thinking -- now you're playing with him tomorrow in the last group.  Is that a factor, too?JASON DAY: Yep.Q. Did it drive you at that point to be like I'm going to be one of the guys to knock this bloke off?JASON DAY: No, not really.  I can't control what he does.  He's just playing phenomenal golf.  If you look at the run that he's had this year, it's been amazing.  I'm actually quite surprised that he goes ahead and he won last week, and flying over, different time zone, very early in the week.  I thought that prep was going to be very difficult.  But obviously I'm wrong. He's a heavy favourite tomorrow, just being one shot back.  Everyone knows it.  But once again, I just -- seeing him today on the 12th hole, hole that putt, I just knew that he's going to be up there regardless of what I do.  The only thing I can do is just go out there and try to play the best I can.  Fortunately for me I shot 5-under and I'm at the top of the leaderboard right now.  I kind of have to do the same tomorrow.Q. Just given the names, the great names on this trophy, including Greg Norman being the last Australian, what would it mean to get your hands on the Claret Jug?JASON DAY: Yeah, I always wanted to be the first Aussie to win the Masters, but you know, Scottie beat me to it.  Since we haven't had an Aussie win the Claret Jug since Mr. Norman, it would be nice to put my name on the Jug.  We're just trying to chase that bit of immortality.  That's probably the best way to put it is just that you're stuck in history at that moment, and you know that that year, that person's name on that Jug is immortal in some way.  It's just great to be able to have that piece of history and that glory that goes along with it.Q. You must be very proud of yourself to be in this position just a month after what happened at Chambers Bay.JASON DAY: Yes.  Yeah, I mean, to be honest, it's -- it was tough with what went on at the U.S. Open, and then even though I wanted to finish a little bit better, I was just glad to get it done.  To be able to come back pretty much three weeks later and play the way I've been playing, I know this is one of those events that I haven't really played well in the past.  I think my previous best finish here is T30.  I mean, it's not my strongest major, and I've always said at the start of this week, I said, I'm looking forward to changing that this week.  You know, I'm just very happy with how my health has progressed and where it's going, and overall, just I feel healthy and I feel up to the challenge tomorrow.  I'm looking forward to an exciting finish, not only for myself but from everyone else.Q. Mate, 16, 17 and 18 are probably going to decide things tomorrow you would assume considering how packed the leaderboard is.  Do you have a couple of different approaches depending on whether you're defending or chasing shots coming in there?JASON DAY: I think all pars would be fantastic through that stretch, and that's kind of what I try to do.  I'm not going to try and chase the fairway up 15, 16 and 17.  Left is fine, even if you're in the rough.  It's kind of patchy in all three holes, but you get a little flier out of there, that's totally fine.  Get yourself on the green, try and take a two-putt.  If not, you can maybe get something close and hole a putt for birdie.  But I'm not going to change the way I've played 15, 16 and 17.  I think I've played that pretty good.Q. Any regrets about the missed putt on 18, or in a way is it almost a blessing in disguise not to be the outright leader overnight and spending the last 18 holes with a target on your back as it were?JASON DAY: Yeah, I think there's some positives that go with what you said there, missing it.  I would have loved to hole it.  I certainly think there's an average score that usually wins around this event, and I think just above 16-under usually wins it.  I was just trying to chase that number.  But to be in the second-to-last group with Jordan is obviously going to be a lot of fun, but I just misread the putt.  I hit a good putt but misread it unfortunately.Q. Australia won the Ashes Test today by 405 runs --JASON DAY: I heard about it, just 405.Q. That's right, three Aussies in the top 10 of the leaderboard.  Where did it all go wrong for Australian sport this weekend?JASON DAY: Well, you know what, it's great to see the Aussies up at the top of the leaderboard again, and then it's great to see the Aussies on top of the English again.  No, I'm just looking forward to a good challenge tomorrow, and I think the guys are hoping for a good finish.  I know there's -- you can't just -- unfortunately you can't count the guys behind us out.  It's just too bunched, and it's going to be a lot of fun tomorrow.  I think everyone is going to be excited about how it's going to pan out, and it should be fun, yeah.Q. Tiger said yesterday that he spoke to you about how good it was to walk up the 18th on the final day with the lead.  Can you elaborate on the conversation and how it sort of made you feel?JASON DAY: Yeah, he said it's the best walk in golf to be able to go up there with the lead and be able to have that walk with all the grandstands around you.  I said, it's easy when you have a seven-shot lead, to him.  But if I have the opportunity of doing that, no one can take that away from me.  That's part and parcel of why we work so hard, and what I was just saying about that little piece of immortality and glory that comes along with winning the Claret Jug at the Home of Golf at St. Andrews, it would be an unbelievable piece of experience that no one could ever take away from you.  You just can't buy that.  The only way you can buy that is just through the blood, sweat and tears you put into your golf game and the dedication you put into your game.Q. You said Jordan was a heavy favourite going into this final round.JASON DAY: Yes.Q. Do you view it as an advantage or disadvantage that you will be playing with him, and probably given how well he's likely to play in that final round?JASON DAY: Yeah, I think -- I'd be very shocked if he's not around in contention going up the last few holes.  I think that he's very -- even though he's 21 he's very mature for his age and he's very patient with himself, and he putts better than everyone else.  It's not so much -- he's definitely going to be the favourite, but I mean, I still have a lot of fans out there that are supporting me along the way.  I hear the Aussies in the crowds and I even hear the locals here, even people that are from -- that aren't from the UK are supporting me.  There's going to be a lot of people out tomorrow that are supporting either myself or Jordan, and it's kind of -- it's a neat experience.  I'm definitely going to try and fly under the radar, but it's hard to when you're in the last two groups of the championship playing the last round.  The more times I put myself here, the more times I want to be here, and hopefully over time I start to change that, and hopefully through winning more of these tournaments, I start to become the heavy favourite, and that's what I ultimately want.Q. Just wondered what you know about Paul Dunne, and can you sum up his achievement?JASON DAY: Absolutely nothing.  I'm sorry, other than he's playing fantastic golf.  He looks like a veteran, and I'm not sure how old he is.  He looks very young just from visually looking at him.  But the way he goes about his -- the process that we were talking about earlier, he looks like he's very present in the way that he goes out and gets his numbers and talks to his caddie.  He obviously played in front of us with Louis today, and to be able to play the way he did with Louis, who has won the last Open Championship here on a big stage, especially Sunday with a lot of people watching, was pretty special.MIKE WOODCOCK: Well, Jason, thank you very much.  Best of luck tomorrow.JASON DAY: Thanks, mate.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT