THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2015
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Long day for us, too.JASON DAY: Yeah, it was a long day for everyone, long day yesterday, long day today, short sleep.  I'm going to be able to sleep tomorrow, which is -- well, tonight, which is fantastic.  It was tough because we kind of waited around all day yesterday and then I went to sleep around 11:00 -- in between 11:00 and 12:00 and woke up at 4:30 and came out and played one hole -- well, one and a half, which was kind of frustrating.  But you just can't let it get to you, and then we waited until 6:00 p.m. to get out there.  Played okay, it was just really tough conditions.  Holed a lot of good clutch putts coming in and made a good birdie on 18.Q. How long were you stewing on the fact that you had to play that ball, especially given that you had two bogeys in that time?JASON DAY: Yeah, how long I was stewing over it?  Not much.  I mean, I just can't afford to get frustrated and stew over it.  I was explaining earlier, there's another 36 holes to be played after this round.  I really want to win a major so bad that I just can't afford to let it frustrate me.  I've just got to keep moving forward and take it hole by hole and get this done, and I played pretty solid, shot 1-under, which was good in that wind, but it's over now, and I've got round 3 and round 4 to go.Q. Can you take us through what happened on 13 green?JASON DAY: With me or Louis?Q. With you.JASON DAY: Okay.  Louis's is a lot more exciting than mine.  Actually I watched those guys putt first, and I was just trying to gauge how fast it was going to be because as we got off going to 12, the rules official says, okay, we've cut 13 through 18, but from there -- from before on, they didn't cut any, and later on I found out they cut 1 through 5 and 13 through 18, so I was thinking it may be a little quicker, but it was kind of hard to tell.  And then watched the two guys putt, and they seemed to putt it pretty close, and then I hit mine six feet past, and you don't want to see the second putt because it was absolutely horrible.  It was just tough because with how strong the wind is, it's hard to commit to a line and commit to, okay, I'm going to play it outside where it shouldn't be going, to really kind of commit to that line with a gust is very difficult to do.Q. Was the ball oscillating?JASON DAY: Yeah, it was oscillating, yeah, yeah.  It was pretty -- it was wobbling.  You don't want it to move.  You're trying to hole the putt, trying to know when to go for a gust of wind.  There were so many different factors.Q. Did you ever at any stage -- you were a little uncomfortable with that wind on that putt.  Did you ever think to do what basically Louis did two minutes later and say this is no good and try to stand up for yourself?JASON DAY: Yeah, if I knew that Brooks Koepka wasn't playing, then I wouldn't have played, but it's -- I just had to go on because we just -- the day before I tried to call it on 12 tee, and they're like, no, you've got to keep going, keep going.  By then I understood that they were trying to get Tom to finish, so I'm okay with that.  But you know, it was just a little unfortunate with how strong the wind was.  I mean, hindsight now looking back on it, it's easy to say, oh, we shouldn't have gone.  But R&A, and I understand what they're trying to do, to try to get a 72-hole event in, try and get this done and finished, but you just -- it's unfortunate when you can't have tough conditions but they're unplayable, you know.Q. Do you feel like Louis's situation actually was the thing that got play stopped?JASON DAY: Yes, I think so.  It was just because Brooks -- they had him holding in position, and then -- because I talked to Brooks about it, and he said they told him to hold, there's another person that's struggling with the greens, as well, and that's when Louis's ball rolled a couple of times.  He ended up holing that putt, which was fantastic, by the way.Q. On the plus side, this is another major and halfway through you're three shots back and right in the mix.  You've got to feel good about that.JASON DAY: It's just slow steps.  36 holes, we're going to have slightly easier conditions tomorrow.  It's still going to be tough, but I think the scoring conditions are going to be a lot more accessible, more playable.  I don't know what Monday holds for us, but there's definitely going to be a lot more opportunities, so I would say there's going to be a lot more guys moving up the leaderboard quicker, and then we've got Monday.  We've got 36 holes left.  It felt like Sunday out there today how much I was grinding it.Q. Would you have preferred to play 36 holes in one day tomorrow?JASON DAY: Yeah, I would have been happy with it, but the decision is in, and I'm happy with 18-18, but 36 was good.  I feel like I'm a young, fit bloke and I can power on, but either or is fine with me.Q. With the Louis situation, do you call in and try to help out?  Do you know exactly how --JASON DAY: Louis and Tiger were laughing at each other, and then as -- well, the first part went, then Louis and Tiger were laughing at each other, and Louis went from three foot, went to one foot, Louis went to mark the ball, and then it went to six or seven feet, and Louis was half laughing, but I could tell that he was kind of annoyed.  So I walked over and then we all started complaining, as we do, as players, we complain.  You know, once again, it's just unfortunate.  We're here to play a major championship, and have tough conditions, which we're looking forward to as a challenge, but it's just a little unfortunate with how unplayable the conditions were, with how the wind was, and then on top of it we got a ton of rain.  It was just one of those freak kind of things.Q. Being from Australia you would have had windy conditions like that.  Can you compare it to an instance like today?JASON DAY: Well, not in Australia so much, but New Zealand.  Back when I played on the Nationwide Tour, which is the Web.com Tour now, I think it was like the New Zealand PGA.  I thought I missed the cut, and I'm just laying in bed the morning of, and the guys -- it started blowing a hurricane outside, and the guys slowly came back and I made the cut on the number, and then long story short I finished sixth that week, which is fantastic.  Kind of got me on pace to getting my card out here.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT