THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2015
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JASON DAY: Ball wasn't going as fast.  Kind of had to take that into consideration when picking the shots, but I hit the ball good and I chipped and putted great.Q. As someone that shot (inaudible)?JASON DAY: I swore but I really didn't put the math together like the guy is 7-under.  I think the biggest thing was I was just trying to get out in front of it and just try and -- I wasn't really thinking about the score, I just wanted to make sure I put a solid one together.  I was playing with Tiger and Louis, the last two winners here of The Open Championship, and I knew there was going to be a lot of eyes on me.  I just wanted to make sure I played solid out there.  But overall very happy with the performance today.Q. Talk about those pars at 17 and 18.JASON DAY: Yeah, 17, it was a brutal hole today.  I mean, if you're going to miss, you're going to miss left off the tee, and then having 230 yards out of the rough wasn't too great.  But ended up hitting a good 4-iron just to the left of the green there.  It was a tough chip, but it was a great up-and-down in the end, and then on 18 I had a perfect number, I just fatted my wedge shot.  Unfortunately it wasn't the greatest wedge shot to finish off.  But I'm not complaining because there was a couple of par saves that I really needed out there today, and I got them.Q. The forecast for Friday and Saturday, did this feel like a day that you had to build up a cushion?JASON DAY: Well, it's hard because everyone is doing it, so there's really no cushion out there.  The leader is at 7-under and there's a bunch of guys at 6 and 5 and the rest goes on.  It's not really much of a cushion because everyone is out there attacking the golf course.  But you know, it was a good start for me.  It's something that I need to build on over the next three days, but I'm excited to play tomorrow.Q. You and Tiger are good mates.  How difficult is it to see him struggling?JASON DAY: I mean, I grew up watching him.  He was my idol growing up.  He's why I'm a professional and why I chased the dream of becoming a professional.  It's tough.  The good thing about it is I saw him struggle a little bit before and he came back and got to No. 1, as well, so I know that he can get back out of this, it's just depending on how much he wants it.  It's a little unfortunate to see him struggle like this because, I mean, it's just tough to see your idol struggle.  Even though he's my mate and I grew up watching him and he's my idol, I've still got to go out there and compete against him, so I'm going to try to play the best I can.Q. (Inaudible.)  Do you feel his attitude his changed when things are going against him?JASON DAY: I mean, he was more -- he had that kind of killer instincts.  I think today he was just struggling a little bit, needed to put his mind somewhere else, and that's kind of how he dealt with it.  But before I think the way he used to kind of get back at things, he used to get pissed off at himself and kind of got him back to where he needed to be mentally on the golf course.  But today he was just struggling a little bit getting into the greens.  He just wasn't hitting it close enough.  He made a few mental errors around the greens and then just tried to press from there.  It's just difficult to do.Q. How about you physically, mate?  How do you feel?JASON DAY: I feel good.  I feel good.  I don't want to -- I should just stay healthy, so I don't have to answer these questions anymore.  No, I feel good.  I'm not thinking about falling over on my face again.  It's good.  I'm not worrying about it and I feel healthy, and I'm good to go.Q. Is it almost surprising that you feel that good and it's been relatively quickly that you feel well again?JASON DAY: Well, I know what the process is when it comes to getting vertigo because I had it for -- my first time I had it was 2010.  I was just explaining earlier, if it was the first time that I ever had it at the U.S. Open then I'd be kind of scared coming out here knowing, maybe it's going to come back, don't know yet.  But speaking with my docs and being on this medicine that I'm on right now definitely helps.  I know if I have it, it takes a couple days to get rid of, but obviously it's not great to have it in tournaments, but if it comes, it comes.  I can't really control it.  That's the unfortunate thing.Q. Looking at the leaderboard, is it any surprise at all that the same three names are on the leaderboard?JASON DAY: Yeah, I know.  That's amazing, isn't it?  Bloody hell, they just won't go away.  It's good to see because it's good for the game of golf, Dustin Johnson playing well, Jordan Spieth.  No, the only person we're missing is Rory.  It's unfortunate to see him out right now, but hopefully he has a speedy recovery.  Right now it's good excitement for the game of golf with how things are going.  It's kind of extended on from the U.S. Open with Dustin Johnson and Jordan Spieth where they are right now, so it's going to be an exciting three days coming up.  Cheers.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT