WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
April 29, 2015
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JASON DAY:   Obviously I need to go out there and win the next two.   And whatever happens, happens.   If I sneak through, I sneak through.   If not, then it's my own fault for losing.
    It's a different format and I'm looking forward to seeing how it goes the next couple of days.

Q.   Any idea why today was like today?
    JASON DAY:   I think it was just‑‑ the preparation wasn't as solid as it would be normally.   Playing the Sunday, what we had at Zurich, and coming here, and then I took Monday off, I was exhausted. 
    And obviously when you're coming to an event like this where you're playing a lot of golf you need rest.   Trying to manage the rest. 
    And then on top of it playing‑‑ obviously I needed to play 18 holes, but just never playing the course before, different firmness of the greens, different speeds of the greens, as well, compared to last week obviously playing two different kinds of grasses.   And just coming in a little under prepared.
    But with that said, I can't blame being under‑prepared, if I go out and play terrible golf.   I actually hit it okay, but nothing with putting on the greens.

Q.   Even with the new format, is there still something to be said for the idea of that there really aren't any upsets in this event?
    JASON DAY:   No, no‑‑ well, you obviously have‑‑ I mean, there were a ton of upsets already from what I've seen, Poulter and Rose and guys that are in form. 
    But once again, no one's a favorite here in formats like this.   You really have to go out and still quite‑‑ no matter who it is, you still have to go out and win that match and try and get through to the next round.   And it doesn't matter who you're playing, you can't underestimate what they're playing like leading up to the event, because they may be playing terrible and strike a match here and they play great.
    But there's no‑‑ there's obviously favorites but you have to be cautious about it.

Q.   Do you still feel okay going into that three hole stretch?
    JASON DAY:   Yeah, I felt okay.   I think it would have been maybe a little different if I holed the birdie putt prior to that hole that he started, because I had I think it was like an 8‑footer or something like that to win the hole, and that would have won two holes in a row.   And that would have been my momentum switch and putting a little bit of pressure on him.   And unfortunately I missed it and then I hit another one great, next to the hole, next hole.   And he holed a birdie putt and I missed it. 
    And then I bogeyed the next hole and then I bogeyed the next hole, just compounding on top of each other.   I just didn't hole the right putt at the right time and unfortunately that's the way it worked out. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT