ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 25, 2015
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   It took two days, but Jason Day finally in with a bogey‑free 7‑under par 65.   How satisfied are you with the two‑day effort? 
JASON DAY:   Yeah, I mean, obviously it's taken a while, but we got it in, and I came out today and played some really nice golf.   Birdied 15 was the start of my round again, and then obviously birdieing 18.   So just happy with where I'm at.   I'm enjoying myself, and hopefully this weather will stay away.

Q.   How did this golf course change Saturday morning after what we saw Friday afternoon? 
JASON DAY:   To be honest, not a lot.   The greens are great.   Fairways are still soggy, so to me, to be honest, it hasn't changed a lot.   It's still very wet like it was yesterday, but I wouldn't say a lot more wet.   It will be interesting over the next couple days to see where everyone stands after this because everyone is playing really good golf right now, and it looks like the cut line is going to be pretty high, so there are going to be a lot of players.

Q.   Low scores needed, soft golf course, and a little bit of a disconnect here on Saturday?
JASON DAY:   I'm just going to try to shoot the ball as long as I can in the end.   That's all I'm asking for.   If I go out and try to do that and if it's good enough for the tournament win, that would be great.   But if not, I've just got to keep at it.

Q.   A bogey‑free 65, you have to be feeling really good about that going into round three? 
JASON DAY:   Yeah, I mean, we finally got round two in, and knock on wood, that was my first storm delay yesterday of the year, so hopefully no more would be nice.   But it was good to get that round in. 
Coming in, bringing the confidence and the momentum coming in from yesterday to today definitely playing the last couple of holes definitely helped a lot, and I'm looking forward to round three.

Q.   With the fairways as soft as they are, longer hitters are definitely going to have an advantage.   Can you talk about how that's helping your game? 
JASON DAY:   Yeah, I mean, I'm one of the longer guys out here.   It's definitely, if you're hitting the fairways, it's a premium.   You'll have preferred lies and we'll probably have the preferred lies over the next two days as well.   But if you carry the ball a long way you can get it down there somewhere closer to the green and you're not hitting such a long club coming in. 
It's going to be a tough one because once the sun dries out the grass‑‑ during the morning rounds when you're in the rough you don't get as many flyers, and as it dries out and you're in the rough, you get a couple of flyers.   With the greens the way they are, they're very quick this morning, so we'll see how the scores go.   But, overall, very pleased with my last round.

Q.   With the humidity and the weather the way it is, it takes a physical toll.   But what do you have to do to stay in it mentally when you have so much time between your second and third round? 
JASON DAY:   I think I've got maybe a few hours or so, three or four hours.   But I'm just going to go sit down and probably have some food with my caddie and my agent and just kind of chill out.   I mean, it's not the first time I've sat around before, so just kind of go relax, and once it's time to get back into playing mode, we'll go warm up again and get into it. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT