MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2015
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (No Microphone.)
JASON DAY:   I could not buy a putt today.

Q.   You could have gone low.   You had a lot of chances. 
JASON DAY:   Yeah, it could have been really low.   Because I definitely gave myself a lot of opportunities on the front nine.   Not so many on the back nine.   But I still gave myself chances of the obviously, the last shot kind into 18 kind of summed up the day.   I mean, I hit a good shot in there.   I hit a great drive.   And I was struggling to find a fairway and then finally found a fairway and hit a great second shot in there and it came back down the front of the green, so.

Q.   What did you think when you saw that?
JASON DAY:   Just like, when it rains, it pours, I guess.   But I'm going to try a few different putters tonight.   Try and go back to something that I can kind of see something, see the line with and that.

Q.   (No Microphone.)
JASON DAY:   I don't know.   It's just tough because obviously I did a lot of work and preparation coming into this event and a little frustrating, but I'm definitely going to try and work the kinks out on the range and on the putting green again. 

Q.   You mentioned the putting.   It wasn't much though, was it, I mean, it just caught the edge there on 3, had that chance on 5, just couldn't get it going from there. 
JASON DAY:   Yeah, the funny thing is that if one of those goes in, then I might be standing here with a different score.   I know that I would be standing here with a different score, because that just kicks the momentum, that kicks a good round going.   Just unfortunately I didn't have it today.   I just caught a few lips and I couldn't hole anything after that. 

Q.   You did scramble nicely.   I mean, especially here on 9.   How do you even see a shot like that?
JASON DAY:   I was just trying to hit it up through the trees and it came out all right.   I mean, it was great.   I mean, obviously you're not trying to hit it that close, but you're trying to get it on the green and I was glad that I could get it up somewhere near the hole and at least I could 2‑putt it then.

Q.   At what point did you start to sort of feel it was working against you today?   Was it early or was it maybe at 5 when that one didn't go in?
JASON DAY:   It's tough.   I was just trying to grind it as much as possible.   I knew early, once I couldn't quite get the putts going in I'm like, oh, this is going to be a tough one on the greens today.   But obviously I'm not going to stop there, I'm going to keep trying to get a good score going. 
If you're not hitting the fairways here, which are pretty generous, it's obviously tough to set up opportunities.   And for some reason on the 17th, I just like hitting it right there, so. 
Usually I'm driving it pretty well here.   But it's not the case today.   When you're not doing that, you're not giving yourself opportunities and when you're not giving yourself opportunities, you're putting poorly and you are where you are.

Q.   When you saw the pairing for today with Adam did that kind of take some of the edge off or what was your reaction to make it a little less pressure maybe?
JASON DAY:   No, no edge, really.   I mean obviously we, you know, I had a lot of work to do and, it's always good when you're playing with a friend and a fellow Aussie, obviously.   But I don't know, I was just out there trying to shoot the lowest score I had and 71 was it. 

Q.   What do you do tomorrow going forward?   Do you just go try to throw a low one up and finish as high as you can?
JASON DAY:   Yeah, you know what?   What am I, 3‑under?   4‑under?   The lead is 17.   I got to shoot something really deep tomorrow, obviously.   I know I can do it, because I've shot 11‑under earlier this year and 9‑under earlier this year, but obviously it's tough to do in a Major, but stranger things have happened. 
Once again, I just got to get something going on the greens.   I think if I can get something going on the greens, things change.   It could be different, a different feeling this week. 

Q.   You can always make something here with the roars here?
JASON DAY:   Yeah, exactly.   I mean obviously Spieth is in the driver's seat right now and he's playing good. 

Q.   I would imagine it was a pretty frustrating afternoon. 
JASON DAY:   Yeah, I missed a lot of putts and I just gave myself a lot of opportunities, really, for birdies, and I didn't capitalize on them.   Obviously when you're trying to shoot yourself up the leaderboard, you need to putt well and it's just tough, really. 
The last second shot on 18th hole kind of capped everything off by hitting the pin and rolling back all the way off the green.   Just sometimes when it's your day, it's your day and when it's not, it's not. 
So, I think that there's a lot of positives coming out of it.   I played good.   I hit a lot of good quality shots into the greens but I need to go work on the range and try and find something on the greens. 

Q.   That's the opposite of yesterday when we were having a chat, you said you just couldn't envision the shots yesterday, they weren't in your mind.   Obviously they were today.   And it wasn't working for you when you got to the short stuff. 
JASON DAY:   Yeah, I don't know, I don't know.   I wish I could work that out.   But just sometimes it just happens that way and you just got to keep fighting until it's over.   And a 71 was obviously the best score I could have shot today. 

Q.   What about tomorrow?   What's the mindset for tomorrow now?
JASON DAY:   Well, you just got to go out there and try and shoot as low as you can.   I'm trying to shoot myself up the leaderboard as quick as possible.   Obviously, I probably won't be able to put any pressure on Spieth because he's at 17, I'm at 4.   So once again I've shot 11‑under and 9‑under earlier this year, but it's tough to do in a Major, on a Major venue such as this. 
No, I'm just going to enjoy myself.   It will be fun tomorrow.   Just finishing off this week on a positive note, hopefully.

Q.   I guess finally, to get a quick comment about Jordan and what he's doing out there. 
JASON DAY:   Yeah, yeah.   He's on pace for a record setting tournament win and it's just, obviously, when we have stuff like this happen, it's great for golf.   And he's such a good guy, a good kid.   I mean, it's amazing that he's as young as he is and how dominating he is right now.   It's good to see, because we need great young golfers in golf to keep the industry moving forward.   It's just something like that, what he's doing right now, it's motivating for me.   It means that I need to work a little harder and get better.   Improve and hopefully I can do that one day.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT