MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2015
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (No Microphone.)
JASON DAY:   Here on the weekend, we'll have a shot at it. 

Q.   (No Microphone.)
JASON DAY:   Yeah, it was more frustrating than anything, obviously, to three jack two of the first few holes.   It wasn't looking good.   I was just kind of behind the eight ball early and I just had to stay as patient as I could.   Obviously, it's tough when you're not quite giving yourself the opportunities on the greens and when you do give your self the opportunities, you 3‑putt and walk off with a bogey which is obviously not the right thing to do. 
I had an eagle and a birdie today, which was positive, but I'm glad I'm in red figures going into the weekend, because Jordan has a bit of a lead on us, but you just never know what's going to happen. 

Q.   (No Microphone.)
JASON DAY:   To be honest, I was just trying to worry about where I was aiming.   I couldn't quite get my swing in order and when I lost a little bit of trust and commitment in my swing, I just, obviously, what he was doing, I couldn't control, so I just had to go out there and try and get in with the best score I possibly could. 

Q.   You can make up shots around here, can't you on the weekend. 
JASON DAY:   Well, you can, it just depends on how they set the course up.   I just got to find something on my swing.   Find that commitment, find that trust that I can go out there and just swing at it and not worry about where it's going to go or where it will go. 
Obviously, the thought process is completely wrong right now and I'm more worried about where it's going, rather than just looking at my target and looking and go. 
So I'm going to go on the range today and just see if I can iron some things out.   If I can, great.   If not, obviously I'm going to try my best. 

Q.   (No Microphone.)
JASON DAY:   I definitely think that ‑‑ to be honest, I'm playing pretty good golf for how I've been feeling inside with my golf swing.   It's been pretty good with the score.   But if I can find something, it will be good, I can trust myself out there and see what happens.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT