ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 25, 2015
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How did you play coming out?   I mean it's been a long, long day for you.   How do you feel like you played today?  
    JASON DAY:   I mean I feel like I played already.   I think I had a few birdies out there, which was nice.   It's just a lot of patience you had to have today, especially being out here for I think it was like 13 hours.   It was a long day, and I only played seven holes.  
    I know that it's very easy to get frustrated, and start getting angry at things that have gone on, especially with the weather.   And it's very easy to get frustrated out there on the golf course, too.   But, you know, with everyone that's getting frustrated, I know that I can't get frustrated.   I know I gotta somehow keep myself in it because there's still a lot of golf holes left, still a lot of guys that can be aggressive out there and capitalize on a lot of birdies and make a lot of birdies out there.   So just gotta kind of stay centered and keep pushing.  
   
 Q.   How are you putting?   Are you greens kind of running a little slower?  
    JASON DAY:   Yeah, they were.   They were running a little slower, but once again, you can't think that they're rolling slow, because you can‑‑ a couple of putts that the boys in my group, Dan Berger and Hudson Swafford hit the first hole and the second hole, they hit some putts thinking maybe it's slower, rolled past by five, six feet.   So you think they're a little slow, but they kind of get away from you, especially with the pin positions, where they put them obviously definitely helped that.  
    I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   It's going to be the day.  
   
 Q.   After the second round, you know, you're the leader and then you go into this long delay.   How do you just keep your focus?  
    JASON DAY:   I guess it's just, you know, if it's your first time, then it's going to be hard because you're going to be thinking about it all the time, but this is not the first time I've had a rain delay.  
    You know, I feel like it's the first time that I had a storm delay with the lead.  
   
 Q.   With the possibility of this rain coming tomorrow and maybe pushing the tournament to Monday, is there any concern about the prep for the WGC Cadillac match?  
    JASON DAY:   My main focus is just winning this week.   You know, I want to‑‑ if I go into the WGC without a practice round, that's fine.   As long as I come away with a win, that's all I'm worried about right now.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT