MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2015
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (No Microphone.)
JASON DAY:   So to be able to get up‑and‑down there on the last hole, especially the way I did, especially with the birdie run I had on the back nine that was special.   So three more days left.

Q.   Talk about that.   Five straight.   Have you had that sort of run here at Augusta?
JASON DAY:   I've had a run like that.   I don't know if it was four or five, but I remember having a run like that on the back nine before. 
But I just knew that if I could just be patient and give myself opportunities, especially on the back nine, I could get something going.   And obviously started on 12 and I finished on the 16th.   A little bit disappointing to see the bogey on 17, but it just, just good finish on the last.

Q.   It was trouble‑free early too.   You took it through the first seven in even par and then started to sort of light it up, didn't you?
JASON DAY:   Yeah, well, it wasn't so much trouble, I actually played pretty decent through that first seven holes, I just wanted to make sure that I didn't do anything crazy, because, obviously, it's very easy to play yourself out of the tournament here. 
With how the greens were, I knew that there was going to be scores out there.   I didn't realize there was going to be an 8‑under, but it was getable out there today.   I don't see it being like that for the rest of the week though.   I see it gradually getting harder and harder as the week goes on.   And you just got to be patient.

Q.   When you got all of us fired up, well played today.   We look forward to the next three days?
JASON DAY:   Yeah, cheers, thanks. 

Q.   Seen a lot of momentum coming in, obviously the bogey on 17. 
JASON DAY:   Thanks for that.
(Laughter.)

Q.   Any time. 
(Laughter.)   Just talk about that final stretch of six, seven holes coming in. 
JASON DAY:   Yeah, I mean I got off to a pretty relatively good start.   I was even par through seven holes.   I'm not disappointed by that, because 1 is a tough hole, 4 is a tough hole, 5's a pretty tough hole, 7's not too slack.   You got to make sure you hit a good drive there. 
But I got my first birdie on the 8th hole and then kind of got a run going through 12, 12 through 16, which was nice. 
Then to get up‑and‑down on the last hole to kind of cap off a good round, it was good to get that momentum going into tomorrow's round.

Q.   How much were you leaderboard watching to see what Jordan was doing?
JASON DAY:   Yeah, I mean we were watching.   I mean, those were‑‑ Sergio Sergio's caddie, Glen, said there's going to be an 8‑under this week and he birdied the last hole to get to 8‑under. 
Yeah, we were out there watching.   Today, you're really trying to just keep your self in it.   So you're not too worried about where they're going. 
Obviously, you want to try and stay with the lead, but you're just trying to play you yourself into somewhere into contention to Sunday's back nine, because that's where it kind of all happens.   But very happy with 5‑under. 

Q.   Was there a pep talk walking to the 12th tee today or what kept you going?
JASON DAY:   The bogey on 11.   I hit a good putt and it lipped out.   So, I was kind of peeved about that.   And in my mind I was just thinking, I'm like, my bounce back stats have been pretty good this year, I'll try and give myself an opportunity on the 12th hole.   And I didn't realize I was going to rattle off five in a row. 
It was good stretch of holes.   I had kind of that run before here on the back nine, but to be able to do it and really shoot a really good score today, I mean, obviously, it was getable out there, but you had to play quality golf and give your self some good putts at it and obviously the opportunities came and I capitalized on those, which was nice. 
I'm just happy that I got in at 5‑under.   Still got three days left. 
Jordan's playing phenomenal golf.   That stretch of golf that he's played over the last 11, 12 events, is just amazing.   And I think everyone knows that he's the one to beat this week. 

Q.   While five in a row is obviously impressive, how important was the patience you showed on the first seven and also getting up‑and‑down on 18 after you bogeyed 17?
JASON DAY:   Yeah, it was hard, because 17, I mean, I hit an okay drive, it was just to the right and then I punched out to a bunker shot, which was relatively easy, I thought. 
I just hit a terrible bunker shot.   I hit it too far.   I hit the putt too hard. 
18 is a tough driving hole.   That first bunker's runs out at about 300 yards and if you run into it, it's hard to get to the green from that first bunker.   So if you're ever going to make a mistake, you go long into the second one and go a little right, to be able to have that touch going back down the hill.   No one likes that shot.   Especially over the green. 
But the one good thing about it, one positive thing that came out of it was the greens were a little bit slower, so I knew that it wasn't going to get away from me too much. 
Like I said, it was great to get that up‑and‑down, because that's one where it's just like you get in the locker room and you feel sulky about it.   So, I'm happy with that up‑and‑down and it's good momentum going into tomorrow.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT