ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 19, 2015
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Jason, just comment on your round today.   Good playing.  
JASON DAY:   Yeah, it was good playing.   I played the par-5s great so just a couple of mistakes but overall pretty happy with how I hit it.   Was hitting it nice out there and maybe a few putts would have gone my way would have been a lower score but I'm not disappointed at all with how I played.   I played wonderful and I'm looking forward to the next three days.  
   
 Q.   Jason, with the scoring in the morning, you go out with a number in your head at all?   What was it and how would you make it?  
JASON DAY:   It's a little surprising to me that 5-under or 6-under now, but 5-under in the morning was leading.   With how receptive the greens were -- obviously the greens aren't where they should be but everyone has got to putt through them and you're thinking that someone is going to come out with how the greens are, how the fairways conditions are, the course conditions are, you think someone will be at least 7 or lower.   
I was a little surprised by that but it's one of these courses where you kind of just putt along and hopefully by Sunday back-9 in contention.  
   
 Q.   Jason, 3-under, pretty good start to this golf tournament.   How did you think you played today?  
JASON DAY:   I felt like I played all right.   Just a little scratchy little holes here and there but overall very happy with how I played the par-5s.   Played them nicely today and then I didn't do anything too crazy out there to give myself any trouble.   Very pleased with how I hit the ball.   I'm happy with the score.  
   
 Q.   5-under on your par-5s today and you had a great look at 16.   I thought were you going to have another eagle, two eagles on the back-9.   
Were the greens a little bumpier in the afternoon?  
JASON DAY:   They've been a little bit bumpy the whole week.   Obviously that's tough weather here this past winter and coming into this event.   You know, it's just how you look at it.   Obviously everyone has to play it.   You can't be angry at how the course conditions are because, you know, there's no room for complaining out here and just go put up with it.   I felt like I putted great today.   Couple putts gone my way obviously would have been a little bit lower but very happy with how I played.  
   
 Q.   How about the conditions, I mean I don't think there have been better days to score out here because no wind, greens seem very receiving and soft.  
JASON DAY:   Yeah, very receptive on the course.   Not a lot of run with the drivers off the fairways.   You get 10, 20 at least.   But the greens are nice and soft.   Very, very perfect conditions to go out there and try and attack it.   
Once again, you get yourself on the wrong side of the hole, it can be a very difficult up and down.   Just did like I said, I didn't do anything too crazy, kept the ball out in front of me and played good.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT