AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 15, 2015
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Take me through that three hole stretch where you go 2, 3, 2 at 5, 6 and 7.   
JASON DAY:   No it was great.   I obviously needed a hot start.   I was thinking like 20.   If I could get to 20, obviously that's 8‑under.   So if I can get to 20 and get off to a hot start, obviously there's a lot of scoring opportunities coming in.   
So, 2 I hit a great 5‑iron into that par‑3 there.   And rolled in a nice putt.  
Hit a great 2‑iron into the par‑5.   Left myself about 10‑12 feet above the hole and holed that.   
The little one.   Obviously, you just got to get the right one, but once you get the right number and you hole it‑‑ I'm off to a great start.   
So, a little disappointed with how I finished.   Not so much as in where I finished in score‑wise and position wise, just I gave myself a lot of opportunities coming in and just hit the ball too hard on the greens.   And when you're hitting it too hard and the pace is too hard, you just have to hit it through the break and I just didn't capitalize.  
   
 Q.   You had 30 putts in the round.   I thought your putts at 15, 16 and 18 you probably hit the mark where you were aiming and just didn't marry line and speed.   
JASON DAY:   That's exactly right.   Well, I just, I hit my line.   That's all I could ask for.   But the speed was just way off.   I was off by about two feet.   
So, with that said, if I had perfect speed I'm pretty sure those would have gone in.   Unfortunately, I didn't.   I just had some lead hands out there.   
But it was a good start to the year for me.   I'm looking forward to getting over to Doral and just really getting under way.   
   
 Q.   We're not going to dwell on the negative but we're curious about your tee ball at 17.   Was that 5‑iron?  
JASON DAY:   Yeah, it was 5‑iron.   I was just trying to ‑‑ I didn't know whether to hit 6‑iron or 5‑iron.   It was 181 yards to cover the bunker.   We just didn't know if it was kind of just blowing a touch back into us.   So I was just trying to feather a 5‑iron in there and obviously just kind of jammed on it and hit a lower a trajectory and to be honest, hit it way too hard.   I was only trying to hit it 180, 185 yards.   
And nine times out of 10 I got that shot and it just happened to be just a bad shot at the wrong time.   Nearly made a good par.   
But I think if I had that opportunity again, I would probably hit 6‑iron, obviously hindsight is 20/20, but it's just what you learn.   Obviously, next time I know I'm going to hit the six.   
   
 Q.   We're in the going to dwell on the negative.   It's been a great two‑week run for you.   Will we see you at Riviera?  
JASON DAY:   No, no, I got a couple weeks off.   
   
 Q.   67 here on Sunday.   All things considered how pleased are you with your closing day here at Pebble?  
JASON DAY:   Yeah, it's pretty good.   I got off to a great start.   I was thinking maybe if I could get out there and shoot 8‑under, get it to at least 20, that should be right around the mark.   
I got off to a great start.   I played wonderful through actually 10 holes, my first 10 holes.   Then I just ‑‑ I wouldn't say scratchy from tee to green.   
I gave myself a lot of opportunities coming in, I just didn't hole the putts.   Obviously the speed is a huge part of holing putts and I was just hitting it way too hard and when you're hitting them way too hard then obviously you are going to miss it hole high.   I hit my line but I just didn't have the speed.  
   
 Q.   A quick start today, you almost didn't get to tee it up in the second round.   What does that say about the goal you told me earlier in the week, that you're going to give it a hundred percent each and every time out?  
JASON DAY:   I was actually talking to Cole ‑‑ actually before the second round and I just didn't know if I was going to play or not.   
Obviously with the stomach virus that I had, I was just thinking, can I grind it out or what will be a good showing here, even if I have been vomiting and the other stuff.   
We were thinking if we could just make the cut.   I'm up in that top‑5 right now.   So overall it can't be too disappointing.   
But obviously it is.   You look back on the stuff that I did wrong this week, but there's plenty of good stuff that I did right.   There's a lot of confidence going into the next tournament.   So got a couple weeks off and I'm going to go to Doral for my next one.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT