AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 13, 2015
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Great round today.   But we'll start with the beginning of the day and how you felt and if you could talk about that a little bit.   
JASON DAY:   Yeah, it's just tough because my son went‑‑ we took him to the ER Wednesday night and he had some stomach problems and he was throwing up and both ends.   And then he gave it to my wife and then my wife gave it to me.   So, I didn't think I was going to play today, especially 30 minutes before my round because I was feeling pretty awful.   
Just once I got out there, I started feeling a little bit better, you but I haven't eaten anything all day.   So‑‑ and right now I don't feel like eating anything.   Because anything that I will probably eat will probably come back up.   
So, to be able to shoot 9‑under out there with how sick I was, thinking about pulling out, was pretty special, just because I put myself back in the tournament and I got two more days left.  
   
 Q.   Then real quickly, just talk about your round in general.   Obviously not feeling well, but what was going right to allow you to shoot that number?  
JASON DAY:   I don't know, the 12th hole.   I made a birdie there, but I hit my wedge shot in the hole and it spun back out.   
Then on the last par‑5 on the back nine, I chipped in for an eagle as well.   
So just things like that.   And just my putter was hot today.   Hit a lot of good shots off the tee and into the greens and then holed a lot of putts.   
   
 Q.   Are you able to continue off of last week's win and just momentum coming into this week?  
JASON DAY:   Yeah, I just feel good.   Obviously the momentum and confidence of last week's win.   Yeah, I definitely think I brought that into this week.   I was a little tired yesterday.   I didn't know if I was just tired or if I was getting sick.   Then obviously I know that I was getting sick.   
And today I'm just ‑‑ my goal over the next couple days is to really try and rest up and get some energy and have a good one tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Lastly, any practice this afternoon?  
JASON DAY:   No, I'm done.   I'm done.   I'm going to go straight home.   Actually probably going to go see my massage guy see if I can loosen things up and then after that I'm going to call it quits.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT