ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL
March 6, 2021
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. How would you assess your round today?
 JASON DAY:   It was good.  I feel like shooting 68 today was solid.  I just feel like I'm a little bit a ways with my game.  Not that far away, it's like it feels really close to playing some good golf, but I feel like I got a lot of work to do before I can really believe that I can kind of win out here again.  And I'm not saying that in a negative way at all, I just feel like there's a few areas of my game that just need to be tightened up and it's not that far away.  So it's a positive, which is good, because if I can play the way I did today and feel like I can improve, that's a plus.
 Q. Do you feel like with how your body's feeling, we talked about this at Pebble, that you can go out and you can put that work in?
 JASON DAY:   Yeah, that's the thing is, I don't have any issues with my body.  So there's no excuses in regards to that.  I can go out and work as hard as I can.  I can putt as long as I want to, which is great.  Overall, I think it's been moving in the right direction, which has been a plus.  So I just got to focus on what I've been doing great and just try and tighten up the areas that I need to tighten up and then get back to winning.  That's all I can focus on.
 Q. We're going back to the PLAYERS next week.  A year since everything shut down.  If you look back last year your thoughts during THE PLAYERS Championship on your thoughts on the coronavirus were?
 JASON DAY:   I can't like -- it was -- I actually played with Jim Herman at Pebble Beach, I was telling him about the coronavirus and he's like, he came up to me and said, You called it, you knew that something was going to happen.  And obviously I didn't know, I just knew that something was happening overseas and then it wasn't too long after that that then we obviously had it here in America.
 So just kind of a whirlwind kind of a year, to be honest.  It's kind of crazy that it's already been a year.  But also it feels like it's been a long year as well.  So I think everyone is excited to get back to the PLAYERS Championship next week, I think everyone's just excited to get back and play it again and I heard it's in tremendous condition.  So I'm excited to get back.
 Q. From what you knew a year ago to what you know now, how has your opinion on the coronavirus maybe changed?
 JASON DAY:   That's just something that I can't really offer any advice on.  It's just, like it's above my pay grade.  I feel like it was something that we all had to take serious.  I think the TOUR did a tremendous job getting us back and playing again.
 I think a lot of people lost a lot of loved ones, so something that we can't forget and we got to understand that although we do want to get back to some sort of normalcy we got to be cautious and careful moving forward.  So I think, from what I've been reading in the news I feel like everyone's kind of optimistic, but obviously you just want to be safe.
 Q. Thoughts on the great job that the TOUR did to get it, I mean to get back to playing in June and no stoppages.
 JASON DAY:   Yeah, that's -- Jay Monahan, his team at the PGA TOUR, it's been kind of a shared sacrifice from the top executives at the PGA TOUR all the way through to us as well.  But we're very blessed to be able to be back playing golf.  We're in a sport where we can socially distance in the correct manner and I feel like the PGA TOUR did a successful job, because I don't, I haven't heard of a person testing positive lately that's been on the TOUR.
 So I think overall, from the players all the way through to Jay Monahan, I think everyone's doing their part to try and be as safe as possible so we can get out and play.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT