FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
February 8, 2015
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JASON DAY: To hole a putt and really move forward from there and get in a playoff and play great golf, I'm just real proud of myself just to hang in there and it was a tough week for everyone.  I'm just glad to get number three and hopefully this is a gates that can open up for me many more from there.   Q.  The key is patience here at Torrey Pines.  You showed that all week.  You got to feel like you've really got good in that department?  JASON DAY: It felt really like a U.S. Open, really.  The conditions were tough, the fairways were, with everything that about the whole golf course was the superintendent's done a phenomenal job with this golf course this week and the green speeds and the firmness of the speeds, it's just a really tough golf course.  You got to make sure hit the fairway, hit good quality iron shots.   Q.  Is this the start of a big year for you do you think?  JASON DAY: I hope so.  I really hope so.  Because I've been working very, very hard.  Obviously over the last in the off season I took three months off to rehab my back, rehab my thumb and it's been a long process and to be able to many could out early during the year and win is, it's very -- I'm just really thrilled about how it's gotten to happen.  So I'm hoping for a good year, hoping to stay healthy and really try and challenge that No. 1.   Q.  PGA TOUR playoff for Jason Day and it wasn't easy.  You had three valiant guys ready to take this title as well.  Walk me through in your mind you were able in regulation to get it to the playoff and how you played the two holes.  JASON DAY: Well, last year I was walking down 17 here, this year is an exact same thing.  I thought that hole owed me something.  Hit it to 10, 15 feet and rolled the putt in, which was good, obviously.  I ended up losing by one last year.  I parred the last hole, only because a little bit of luck with the ball staying up.  So it kind of felt like, you know, this is kind of mine to win. Going back into the playoff, I just didn't want to hit 3-wood again because I knew that was going to go too far.  So I try to commit to my line with a 2-iron.  Just hit it out to the right and hit a great chip, obviously.  To get it down there within gimmie range.  I'm just happy to be where I am right now, it's been a lot of hard work, especially with the over the off season my back injuries and thumb injuries and that, I'm just really hoping this is a kick start to a good year.   Q.  Does this reaffirm the faith in the hard work that you put on looking forward as we creep towards Augusta and the Major Championship season?  JASON DAY: Everyone knows that you just don't get anywhere in life without working hard and putting the dedication in the profession that you love.  I feel like I've, I feel like I should be winning more, but it's a process and I'm just really happy with how things have started.  Everything's kind of trending that right direction for the Majors.  This played like a U.S. Open style golf course this week and I'm really looking forward to playing Augusta and the U.S. Open.   Q.  Winning here on this U.S. Open like golf course here, does this raise your expectations or are they on the same trajectory?  JASON DAY: Well it's baby steps.  It's a process.  I keep saying that, I keep saying that over, but it really is.  You got to keep doing the little things right, keep working hard and most of all you got to want it.  You really have to want to come out here and win.  I really wanted to win this week.  I just kept visualizing myself with the trophy, kind of like what I did at the Match Play.  Obviously, you still have to play good golf, but I'm just happy.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT