TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 14, 2014
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Another decent finish at a big event in an injury‑frustrated year, but something to be proud of. 
JASON DAY:   Yeah.   You know, I finished strong today which was nice to get myself to currently third right now, but it was a good strong year for the golf.   A little frustrated with the body, obviously.   You've heard that many times out of my mouth. 
I'm looking forward to getting this ‑‑ you know, I'm moving in the right direction.   Obviously I just hired a new trainer.   We started working at the WGC at Bridgestone up in Akron.   And you know, this offseason is very crucial for me just to make sure that the back, the thumb and my hips are all progressing the way I want them to be, especially for next season. 
You know, I'm very encouraged with how I played this year.   With the 15 starts I played nice. 
I can't ask for anything else, other than having a healthy body next year so I can actually do the work that I need to do to prepare myself better for tournaments.

Q.   Do you have a sense really at all that you can now shut it down and take care of all these things?
JASON DAY:   Yeah.   It's been a pain in the butt.   I've got a bulged disk in my back right now that has been there for a while.   That's been very painful through the last couple of weeks, and obviously a thumb issue that took me out for three and a half months. 
You know, it's been a kind of a whirlwind kind of year with how things have gone, and you know, to be able to get some time off, really try and get some rehab on my back, on my thumb and try and move it in the right direction takes a lot of stress off my shoulders.
I'm just trying to get healthy.   I just want a healthy year, you know, where I can practice hard and get ready for tournaments and try and play the best I can without worrying about injuries, you know, in the back of my mind.

Q.   You're almost excited for rehab?
JASON DAY:   Yeah.   Yeah.   No, I'm excited just to‑‑ the new guy I have, Cornel Driesen, he works with Henrik Stenson and Charl Schwartzel and Ian Poulter.   Very, very smart guy.   He knows his stuff.   So I'm very motivated to do whatever he needs me to do to get better for next season and really try and get to that No. 1 spot.
I feel like I've got the tools to get there.   I just need to make sure that the body is right for me to achieve that goal, and obviously I'd like to win a lot more.

Q.   So you did win this season. 
JASON DAY:   Yes.

Q.   You have had some good results, but is it a lost year or a great year?
JASON DAY:   It depends on how you look at it.   You know, the finishes that I've done well and played well in, I've had a lot of top 5s, a win and a couple seconds and hopefully a third here. 
But you know, I feel with how the injuries progressed through the year how everything kind of came along and me playing injured the whole year, I think I played pretty well. 
I'm not asking for anything else.   You know, I think I'm pretty happy with how the year went.   And as I said before, I'm looking forward to the offseason just to really get ahold of this stuff.   But overall I'm happy.   I'm really happy with how things have gone.
The game feels like it's improving each and every year.   It has, you know, it's just a slow process to get to that No. 1 spot.   You know, I feel like I need to win a lot more to do that.   I still need to stay consistent, but I need to win a lot more and be a real contender when it comes time to be that person.

Q.   You said a number at the beginning of the day.   On a normal Sunday did you factor at all what you needed to do today as far as FedExCup goes?
JASON DAY:   Today, what I needed to do.   I felt like I needed to shoot 6‑under today.   By the looks of it, it may look like that.   12‑under‑‑ statistically, 12‑under, I think just over 12‑under wins it.   So 12, 13 under usually is a number that wins this tournament. 
At the start of the week, you're trying to minimize bogeys to try and capitalize on the opportunities that you have when you can take them and get to 12‑under, you know, and that was my goal at the start of the week.   I finished 7‑under, so five short.   I made a lot of soft bogeys throughout the week, so that's something that I can look back on and really kind of improve on for next year.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT