HERO WORLD CHALLENGE
December 4, 2014
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You saw a little bit on Monday and it was good.   What was good that you saw today?   
JASON DAY:   You know what?   It's good to see the ball flight back.   You talking about me or Tiger?   
   
 Q.   Both.   First you.   
JASON DAY:   First me.   Played pretty good.   Hit a lot of good quality shots out there.   Just didn't have quite the best putting day today.   Think if I putted a little bit better and didn't 3‑putt two par‑5s, I would be easily at three, maybe more, so...  
   
 Q.   What did you see out there...  
JASON DAY:   I played a couple holes...what was different?   
   
 Q.   Yeah, you played a couple holes on Wednesday.   We talked about this, so what was different?  
JASON DAY:   Ah, it was just around the greens for him, really.   Like on Monday he was chipping the ball pretty well.   I mean, he was very actually quite on pointe with his chipping.   
Today he just stubbed a lot.   It was actually surprising how many times he did that.   At least five or six, I'm not too sure, but that's just giving away shots then.  
Overall I think he's hitting it okay.   It's just the short game kind of let him down a little bit today.  
   
 Q.   Is it harder to feel a level sympathy for him?  
JASON DAY:   I want him to play good.   It's good for the game golf when he's playing good.   We know it.   Everyone else here knows that if Tiger is playing good then the rest of the golfing industry and the golfing world is in a better spot.   
It gives you guys more stuff to write about.   So I really want him to play well.   
   
 Q.   What was it like for you on the back nine when you saw him flub three chips on one hole?   
JASON DAY:   I mean, ah, it's just painful.   You're watching the guy who won 14 majors and 79 PGA TOUR wins, and to do stuff like that, that's a lot of rust there.  
I'm not too sure because, again, the practice rounds‑ obviously it's different pressure; there is no pressure in the practice rounds ‑ he was absolutely flushing it.   Chipping well, putting well.  
Then today he just kind of struggled around the greens.   The first hole didn't help the day.   To hit it out of bounds straightaway wasn't a good start to the day.  
Then again, he stood up there his next shot, hit downhill, and hit onto the green to a foot.   
So I think he's going to be here, but he needs to play a lot more.  
   
 Q.   Did you see anything familiar with from you coming back from an injury compared to him come back from an injury?  
JASON DAY:   With our games?   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   From what you saw in his rust.   
JASON DAY:   I've just got 14 less majors than him and about 77 less PGA TOUR wins.  
   
 Q.   No, but you saw the rust in his game.   
JASON DAY:   Right.  
   
 Q.   Did you look that and kind of go, Yeah, I've been there?  
JASON DAY:   He's been off since the PGA.   Unfortunately, I mean, people don't know it, but the guy has had so many commitments this week from dinner commitments to clinics.   And obviously he is the host and this is his tournament and it's the Tiger Woods Foundation.  
With that said, he's going to have a lot of stuff to do.   He's obviously very, very busy this week.   He looked a little bit tired out there.   
With all that said, you still got to go out there and play, because people are paying the tickets and they want to see Tiger playing well.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
JASON DAY:   Nice.   I think it's good.   The ball flight is totally different to last year.   A lot more consistent, powerful.   Especially the drives on the back nine.   That one down 18 was good, really good.   
Once he started getting that little cut that he likes on the back nine, he start driving it a lot better.   
Yeah, I just think he's justknows there is a lot of expectation for him, stress on his shoulders, and I think there is a lot of pressure for him to play well.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
JASON DAY:   I was just saying earlier Monday he was chipping fine.   He flushed it and his short game was on pointe.   
It was just surprising today to see him stub a lot of chip hots.   That uphill into the green is very, very difficult, but to see that many out of Tiger Woods is very surprising.   
I was talking about how I lost about eight miles an hour ball speed, but actually picked up a lot today.   I didn't realize I had that much power in my game.   I was hitting it really nice out there.  
   
 Q.   Just adrenaline?  
JASON DAY:   Maybe.   I don't know.   I'm just glad to be back.   I'm pumped to be back.   It's obviously a different thing.   When you play practice rounds you're not as pumped.   It's obviously a different day.   
When it comes Thursday, you kind of know it's getting time and you got to go out there and play.  
But hitting great shots, like I said earlier, just didn't putt as good as I hoped.   That's a good thing, because I know once they start dropping the lower numbers are there.  
   
 Q.   How much did you put your clubs away after the TOUR Championship?   
JASON DAY:   Two and a half months?   Yeah, didn't touch a club.  
   
 Q.   Until?  
JASON DAY:   Last Friday.   Yeah, so...   I needed to.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
JASON DAY:   No, no.   I just put the clubs away and really tried to work on my back.   Really wanted to make sure that my abs and core were strong for the comeback.   
Like I say, I'm still probably a year away from where my core strength needs to be.   It's a process.   Just how good I'm going to be in a years' time with the body and however it's going to be, and obviously it's going to be a lot more consistent with my swing.   I'm happy with how things are going.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
JASON DAY:   I think it was a little bit of rust.   Yeah, but you have because there were some putts out there I'm reading the putts perfect, and the ball is not going where I'm supposed to hit it.   I would say that's a little rust.   
Like I said, if I keep playing the way I'm playing and the putting starts coming along, then I see a lot of low scores out there.   There is obviously a lot of low scores out there today.   I thought the pin positions were pretty tough.   
Seems like Jordan Speith, the Aussie Open champ, he looks like he's playing good.   Hopefully that rubs off on me a little bit.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT