DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 31, 2014
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How would you rate your play for the day, Jason?JASON DAY: Once again I got off to a great start.  Then I made that bogey later on in my round, pretty surprisingly, because it was such an easy up and down.  That caught me out of sync a little bit, hooked my tee shot on the next hole.  And that ended up a bogey, as well. But from then on I kind of found my way about things, and started to hit a few more greens.  It was tough, because I played so good, but yet I still didn't shoot the score that I expected to shoot out there.  We got lucky that the wind wasn't as strong as we thought it was going to be.  It kind of died down in the afternoon.  We got very lucky with that.  Very happy about that. But I'm still in contention.  Two shots behind the lead right now.  So who knows what the weather is going to bring tomorrow, but I'm definitely looking forward to getting back into it.Q. You were talking about what you were expecting.  You've been injured for most of 2014.  What are your expectations right now when you're back in the fray like this, two shots back, with 18 holes to play?JASON DAY: Win.  That's the main objective is to win.  To win the FedExCup, it makes it a lot easier to win tournaments and the FedExCup, when you jump up the FedExCup rankings.  The objective tomorrow is to come out and try and win.  But like I said, there's a lot of good players behind me and in front that also want to win.Q. I don't know if you noticed, after the birdie on 13, they flashed a stat on the screen saying you had 30 1-putts for this week, which is an amazing stat.JASON DAY: I'm not sure if that's good or hot.Q. Sounds pretty good to me.JASON DAY: It does sound good.  That's a great stat.  I'm just trying to go out and do the best I can and win.Q. I noticed every night, 7:00, you're the only guy on the putting green.  Are you using that mirror?JASON DAY: I go from the putting green to the range and chipping green, as well.  Yeah, just to really calibrate everything again, make sure I know where I'm aiming.  And then also I'm kind of working on speed.  So I really have 10 to 15 foot putts, that's kinds of my main goal there.  I'm just trying to really work at it.  I'm feeling really motivated with how I'm playing.  I feel like if I keep working hard it's going to come.  And that's what I need to do.Q. Is there any reason behind, I think I looked at one point, you were 14-under on the front nine and 1-over on the back?JASON DAY: Is that true?Q. Something close to that.JASON DAY: Probably 12 and 2-over on the back, something like that.  The front fits my eye.  I like the front nine.  The back nine you've got to pay a little more respect, because I think it's a little tougher. Throughout the PGA Tour normally the harder holes are towards the end of the round.  But this course, it's -- I wouldn't say it's the toughest finish on Tour.  I mean there's a par-3 where you should be hitting the green, because it's not a very long club.  Obviously we've had some pretty hard winds out there that makes it tough.  But 16, 17 and 18 you can definitely shoot up the leaderboard if you're playing well. With that said, I feel like I need to play the 18th hole a little bit better.  And I feel like I need to play 14 a little bit better.  I think that's the par-4 around the corner, I'm not too sure which hole is that.  But other than that -- and, sorry, 12.  They're kind of the three holes that are key for me.  If I can play well on those holes I feel like I've got a shot.Q. You seem to always play well here in Boston.  Are you optimistic for your finish tomorrow, maybe for a win?JASON DAY: It's going to be tough tomorrow.  I'm two shots back.  But it's not that far in the big scheme of things.  I think if we get some nice weather like we did today, we can definitely go low.  There's a lot of low scores out there.  So for me to win tomorrow I definitely need to shoot in the 60s.  It's not going to be a walk in the park out there.  I need to go out there and try to win.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT