DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 29, 2014
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JASON DAY: I really enjoy the fans being out here.  It's a fun place to play.  I played before the change and after the change, and I don't mind either.  Today was a bit of a struggle off the tee, tee to green.  I didn't really -- didn't feel any pressure to really kind of push myself out there, as long as I just kept chipping away, and kept on getting up and down.  And then obviously rolling off the confidence from last week to this week definitely helps. But, you know, I played good today.  I gave myself some opportunities coming in.Q. Why does this place fit your eye?JASON DAY: You know, it's kind of a course that sometimes -- especially driving lines definitely fit your eye.  And then for some reason just with previous performances when you play good in certain places that you have good memories coming back.  You remember good shots that you hit on certain holes. I feel like it suits the bomber, this golf course.  The further you're out down the fairway the better off you are, with how firm and fast the greens are going to be the next few days it's definitely a premium in hitting a lot of fairways, but long.  Giving yourself the opportunities.Q. The tournaments that you've played, how many courses would you say that sort of do fit your eye?  Are we talking a lot?JASON DAY: Well, if you're a longer guy, the shorter course, you're taking shorter clubs off the tee.  If you're a longer guy and the longer courses, you should play well on because you hit it longer and you're coming in with a shorter club.  Definitely the game is moving towards the longer you are the better off you are.  There's still a premium on hitting a lot of fairways.  Myself and Rory, here, we both hit it fairly long and it's definitely working out for us -- working out more for him than me right now.Q. This golf course is usually not that tough, but it's playing firm and a little bouncy.  To play it bogey-free, it's not that special some years, but this week I think it's going to be really special to have a clean card?JASON DAY: Yeah, I didn't get off to the greatest start where I hit some of the balls and missed a few greens out there, missed a few fairways out there.  My short game definitely saved myself with the score. I was actually pretty surprised, just really held myself in the game.  And birdieing the last three holes really helped.Q. I think this golf course for the week, I think when you look back, the guys at the top of the leaderboard are the guys that don't make the mistakes.  The birdies are out there for everybody if you play pretty good, it's minimizing mistakes this week.JASON DAY: Yeah, there's definitely a lot of opportunities out there.  The greens are very firm.  They're firm and quick already.  So I think we're going to get some nice weather over the next three days, so that should make it a lot tougher for us. But, you know what?  It's great.  I feel good about my game.  Obviously a lot of confidence from last week's performance coming into this week.  I've just got to tidy up the long game a little bit and see how that goes.Q. Being an Aussie you love firm courses, you'd love to see it get as bouncy as it could, wouldn't you?JASON DAY: Yeah, as long as I have bogey-free rounds all the time I'd be happy with that.  But, yeah, it's tough.  We're in the FedExCup playoffs, it's the second stop for us.  I was just saying earlier, it's a marathon, not a sprint.  And you really have to kind of pace yourself and give yourself the opportunities that you can.  And I did that today and that's why I shot the score.  I've just got to keep staying aggressive and play my game.Q. 5-under par out there, tell me about your round today?JASON DAY: It definitely helped birdieing the last three holes getting to 5-under.  I wasn't too flustered with how I was hitting it.  But it was kind of going a little everywhere at the start of my round.  My short game saved myself, obviously.  Not having a bogey definitely helped.Q. When you have a roller coaster start and a little scattering off the tee, I'll be nice saying it that way, how is it that you can stay in the moment and go, it's going to come around, or was there something that you changed in your swing?JASON DAY: I didn't change anything in my swing.  I'm just trying to find fairways, really.  That's what you're trying to do is just when you're out of sync try to get back into sync.  It was definitely tough. But I played with two great guys today, which the momentum definitely helped.  We chipped our way back.  Definitely it was great to play with Jordan and Patrick, just to feed off each other, and get back under par.  And obviously we all finished well.Q. Birdieing those last three holes in a row, how difficult now is it going to be for you to have to go sit?  You don't tee off for a while, and you're playing well?JASON DAY: Actually it helps.  I need to straighten out the long game.  That gives me time to practice and really work on my game.  Obviously get in practice this afternoon, rest up as much as I can today and tomorrow morning.Q. How do you compartmentalize this tournament with the larger competition?JASON DAY: This is kind of like a marathon, you're kind of slowly chipping away.  Obviously it's very top heavy with the points.  The better you play the quicker you move up the standings.  Just showed what I did last week, finished tied 2nd.  So if you play well and finish high the points are very top heavy.  With that said, I played good the first week.  My ultimate goal was to try to get into the FedExCup and The TOUR Championship.  I feel like that's obviously locked up.  So the goal now is to try to get in that top five and really give myself a shot at winning the FedExCup.Q. It's an early round, doesn't feel like an early round out there, does it?  There's a higher buzz than you're accustomed to?JASON DAY: The course played tough today.  There's just -- the fans up here are great.  They understand what a good shot is and they know how hard some of the golf is out there. But it's exciting.  It doesn't matter, it's the start of the playoffs, or the end of the playoffs, it's exciting stuff.  Everyone is trying to reach that ultimate goal, and win the FedExCup.  But it's a marathon, not a sprint.  We're trying to just trying to slowly chip up our way up the leaderboard and hopefully I'm there come TOUR Championship.Q. Do you like the dynamic of playing with the two guys who are right next to you in the standings and you're chipping away at those five spots?JASON DAY: I think it helps in two ways, obviously.  You're playing well to be high in the FedExCup rankings, and then also it helps with confidence.  When you're playing not too great -- we all got off to kind of an average start.  But after that we kind of slowly chipped our way back into contention.  And now it was a good start for all of us.  That's what I kind of mean about you can kind of feed off each other, which is great.  And I really enjoyed playing with the guys around me, especially at FedExCup.  So like I said, just slowly move up and playing 1, 2 and 3, it would be nice.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT