THE BARCLAYS
August 24, 2014
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Took a special surge by someone on the back nine to take it away from you I guess.   
JASON DAY:   Yeah, that's how it is.   I mean, golf, one minute we're standing there on 18 tee box and going, yeah, maybe if I can get a birdie, and Hunter double‑bogeys because he obviously hit it way right and chipped out and I don't know what he did on the third shot.   
I didn't hear a lot of claps, so I'm thinking, I've got a shot here.   When I saw the putt go in, then obviously it took the wind out of the sails.   But overall, pretty good week.   Glad I stuck in there and finished T-second and it's good momentum going into next week's tournament.  
   
 Q.   What you've done is secure THE TOUR Championship, which you set out to do, so now you can free‑flow it in the next two weeks I would suspect.   
JASON DAY:   Yeah, well, I've just got to keep doing the little things right.   You saw it all this week.   I've been working very, very hard, especially after the rounds just trying to get back to where I was at the start of the year, and it feels like it's slowly getting there.   
But I've just got to keep doing the work.   I'm looking forward to getting back to the Deutsche Bank next week.   I feel like I play good around there and I really enjoy the course.   I feel like it's a good set up for me.   I'm looking forward to the next couple days just to kind of relax a little bit and then get into the tournament.  
   
 Q.   Does it put the fire in your belly?   
JASON DAY:   Oh, yeah, I definitely had a shot today.   It's so close.   Like it's just in my fingertips and I can touch it.   But Hunter played that much better than all of us and he deserves to win.   When you play great on the back nine on a Sunday in a Playoff event, you're doing something right.   
He's had his struggles a little bit this year.   He's pretty high up in the FedEx and for him‑‑ because the guy makes every Playoff event in previous history.   But the way he played, you've just got to take your hat off to him because he played well to win the tournament.   I didn't lose it, which was a good thing.   I played well, tried my best and wasn't good enough.   
   
 Q.   Maybe I'm reading this wrong, but yesterday after the round you didn't sound like someone who was leading a tournament after 54 holes, but you came out today and played great.   So what were the concerns yesterday?   
JASON DAY:   I was a little concerned about my hitting.   It was just kind of off a little bit.   Wasn't kind of driving it as straight as I was the first two days.   Wasn't hitting it as solid off the tee.   Into the green wasn't too bad.   
Today I actually hit it great into it the grains.   A little few loose drives.   It's just tough to get any sort of momentum when you're hitting them just in the rough.   If you're just in the fairway then you can get to the green and make less bogeys and maybe there would have been two or three shots I could have picked up if I hit those fairways.   
But with that said, you can't take anything back.   I did that and can only learn from it and get better.   These are just little small stepping stones and hopefully one day I'll be holding the trophy maybe next week, it would be nice.   But just small little experiences, small little steppingstones to get the confidence back up to where it should be going into the next three tournaments.   
   
 Q.   A little prophetic, three and a half weeks ago, we sat down and talked and worked out when we thought you would be at your absolute best and it really is next week.   
JASON DAY:   Next week, yeah.   Like we said, we're above‑‑ we're ahead of schedule.   That's what we talked about a few weeks ago, which I'm very, very happy and pleased with how things are coming along.   
Like I said, I'm looking forward to next week and I fell like it's a good setup for me.   I feel like I'm peaking at the right time, I'm trending in the right direction.   I really want to give it a shot at winning the FedExCup.   That's the ultimate goal, and you can't do that without winning tournaments.   
It's great to stand on a golf course, especially the last day of a tournament and not really think about money.   Most guys think about money or where they finish and place.   It's great to feel and think and all you think about is the trophy, which is great.   
That's what I'm most pleased about is thinking about the trophy rather than thinking about anything else.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT