THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2014
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Is it hard to adjust playing one event like this given you don't have courses like this on the PGA Tour.JASON DAY: It's a little different and the European Tour guys are more used to playing this type of golf than we are on the PGA Tour as we just don't compete on true links courses.  It is hard to adjust but then that's why I come in early to get over any jet-lag and try and get used to really different kind of shots we are going to hit this week. This is a tournament that I have typically not played well in and that's one thing I really have to work on and that's how to play true links golf. It took Phil 20 years to win the Claret Jug and it's all about getting that links experience under the belt.Q. Does Royal Liverpool remind you of any other Open venue?JASON DAY: No not really, no.  They may look the same but they are all different.  I am excited to play over the next four days as it's going to be a lot of fun.  This is one week a year we get to play true links golf and you just expect to have bad weather and that's just how it is.  The weather is the defence of this golf course as the greens are pretty flat out there and the wind will play a huge part. Maybe we can get a week like we did when Tiger won here back in '06 but then the R & A is hoping for a tough week this week. So I'm excited and it is one of those weeks where you have come here and just accept what it is and not get frustrated and not really lose your mind if the weather is poor.Q. What are you first memories of The Open?JASON DAY: I didn't really watched coverage of The Open too much on TV and it was really until I played my first Open at St. Andrews.  We had a wind delay one day and I didn't finish my round to about 10pm and then I had to be up at 5.30am the next morning.  So really is my recent memory of The Open.Q. When you stood on that first tee on the Old Course for a first time were you nervous?JASON DAY: You are always nervous when you step onto the first tee on the first day of any major but I was a little more nervous that day as it is the Home of Golf and it is a special place, so I am excited to get back there next year.Q. What with having had so much time off this year even competing must be special this week?JASON DAY: Yes, it makes it very exciting being here and being able to play because going back a few months I wasn't even playing at all due to my thumb injury.Q. How is the most talked about thumb in sport?JASON DAY: It's fine.  It's fine.  I just have to watch it.  It was a precaution when I pulled out the other week.  It's nothing to worry about it.Q. However it's messed your schedule about this year?JASON DAY: I missed three months of the season and this is only my ninth event for the year, so I haven't really played that much golf this year. I am hoping to get my 15 events in for the year.Q. What then are your expectations like this week?JASON DAY: I feel confident in my abilities and I just have to go out there and execute the game plan.  The weather we have will be a huge part in how we all mentally approach the golf course.  Some people don't want to be here just because of the weather and that is one aspect of being here you have to suck up and go ahead and play.Q. Being off for three months you can sympathise with Tiger and does it add to the tournament he is teeing up?JASON DAY: Certainly as anytime Tiger is in the field it gives a tournament that added buzz. He's one of the greatest all-time players.Q. Would it be foolish to right him off this week as some people have?JASON DAY: It's going to be tough as he's been out for three-and-a-half months and then to come back straight away.  He did play Congressional for the Quicken Loans but was a little rusty.  I would expect him to be a lot sharper this week but it's tough to come back out and be competitive from any injury. So I can definitely sympathise with Tiger as it is a process to get back into it.  You have to do the work and also there is such a big difference in playing social golf and then coming play to play tournament golf and have that scorecard in your back pocket. En


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT