MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2014
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JASON DAY:   I had a lot of fun with my little fella.   The last couple of holes, but he came back on the 9th hole, which was good.   It was just fun to get out there with Stanley and enjoy the day. 
It's nice weather out here and it's good for the Patrons and just really looking forward to getting the week underway, starting tomorrow.

Q.   Talk about everybody that's under the age of 25 that has a chance to win, but you're a little bit older than that but you still feel like you have a shot?
JASON DAY:   Well, I think everyone has an opportunity to win here.   Anyone that‑‑

Q.   Seventy people, like Rory said yesterday?
JASON DAY:   Seventy people?

Q.   That's what Rory said.
JASON DAY:   Oh, really?   Okay.   I think anyone on any given week can probably come out here and win.   You just have to‑‑ you can't of underestimate the field and you got to out there and do the work and try to execute the game plan as best as possible. 
I definitely feel good.   The swing is coming along nicely.   Try and knock the rust off as much as possible.   I'm really looking forward to the group I have tomorrow and it should be a fun week.

Q.   Some people say that experience counts for so much here.   You've played second and third in your two appearances here.   How is that?
JASON DAY:   I think it was big to come in, just get some reps under the belt firstly, when I came to the course first.   But we had a really solid game plan.   I really enjoyed playing. 
This is a tournament I've always grown up watching and loved so much that I just didn't want to ruin the experience the first time I came here, regardless of how I played.   I just tried to enjoy myself. 
Every time that I came here, I just‑‑ that was my main goal is to really enjoy myself and not let anything worry me, and it's worked out great.   And I'm just really‑‑ like I said, I'm looking forward it, to the tournament getting underway.   I feel like, you know, every time I come back here all the good memories come back.   And hopefully one day I'll have the green jacket on my shoulder, but until then I'll just keep working.

Q.   Obviously second and third, you are either going to be first or fourth?
JASON DAY:   I'd like first, not fourth.

Q.   Talk about Adam, of course, last night had a traditional Austrailian barbecue.   Talk about the bugs.   What exactly are the bugs that we had talked about?
JASON DAY:   I'm allergic to seafood, so I have no idea what he's talking to.   You know what, I saw what they are going to eat and, to me, I'll let him eat it. 
Hopefully one day I I'll be able to plan a dinner like that and it will definitely be, you know, a real Australian meal.   So we'll see how it goes.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT