MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2014
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How did the course change as you played it and when the leaders get out there, what are they going to find that's going to be difficult today?  
JASON DAY:   I think the course setup is‑‑ I think it's pretty fair today with how the greens and the firmness of the greens are.  
There's definitely some pins that you have to respect out there but then again they're either pushing up tees or certain pin positions you can definitely get at.  
Today I actually played well today.   I hit a lot of good quality shots out there.   I wasn't really trying to go for the pins.   There's a couple of holes I left myself in the wrong position, but I got out of jail pretty quick with a good chip or a good putt.   I was very pleased with how I putted today.  
   
 Q.   In three days have you noticed the wind being any different because there may or may not be less trees here or less trees there?  
JASON DAY:   No, it is what it is.   It's Mother Nature.   You're going to wake up some days, it's going to blow a little harder.   Actually it's an easier test with the wind today because it's not swirling around so much, especially like the last two days have.  
The miles per hour isn't up as much as it has been over the last couple of days.   I think the guys shouldn't have a problem with getting the wind right today.   But I think it's all on the greens today and obviously positioning on the greens.  
   
 Q.   It looked like you were getting back to your best.   You started to get more in sync today, a lot sharper?  
JASON DAY:   I felt a lot better today.   As I told you guys yesterday, I went to the gym and let some anger out and came on to the course today a little more sharper.  
The putter was a lot better today.   It just felt like it was earlier this year, the way I've been putting.   The hitting was obviously there over the last three days.   But I definitely scrambled good, and the putting was much better.  
   
 Q.   So maybe you were one tournament under done, do you feel maybe?  
JASON DAY:   Yeah, maybe.   I finished slow.   With that said, it's kind of hard to come out early after an injury and try and push it.   If you push too much maybe I wouldn't be standing here with you guys.   So you've got to kind of play it safe on that.  
I'm happy with how everything went today.   Obviously I say that the wind is down, it's kind of picking up a little bit now.   But it all depends on how the leaders go this afternoon.   If they come back, then my position obviously gets a little bit better.   
If I go out and play well tomorrow and shoot a low round, who knows.   It's a Major.   It's Augusta and things do happen.   And I've seen stranger things.   I'm very pleased with how everything went today and very positive and encouraged for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
JASON DAY:   Definitely.   That's what I'm going to do, relax and not think about tomorrow's round and really just have fun with family.  
   
 Q.   Playing with the US Tour was obviously grinding, but were you happy that you kept your mental ground with the round and played well?  
JASON DAY:   Everything just felt easier today for me, mentally.   The first few days it was like really‑‑ I had to grind it out and get around and get my round in, because I just wasn't quite there.  
But today felt a lot easier.   I wasn't‑‑ yes, he didn't play the greatest obviously today.   He actually hit the ball okay, but the putting wasn't there for him.   I wasn't really worried about what he was doing.   I felt at ease with myself over the ball and very confident.   There was no negative thoughts coming into my head at all.   Every time I had the shot I'd just go in there and hit the shot, and that's the way you need to play out here.   You can have the most confident player on the PGA TOUR or in the world and this place can make you doubt yourself.   I felt really pleased with how everything went.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about how it's gone for the three days?  
JASON DAY:   It's obviously taping and icing.   But the thumb has performed well, I'm not too worried about it now.   
   
 Q.   What course results would you take tomorrow?  
JASON DAY:   You know, I'm not going to try and put an outcome on it because‑‑ or results on my finish because you shoot for that and you may get there, you may not, and I think the best thing I can do is just come out and take the course as it is.  
It is very difficult trying to attack this course with how the greens are right now.   Like I said, you leave yourself in the wrong positions you can go backwards in a heartbeat.   So it's going to be interesting how the leaders go today.   
And definitely it all depends on how they set the course up tomorrow.   If they set it up hard, you'll have to give it more respect.   If they set it up easier you can take a few more chances and take that risk and get the reward.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT