MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2014
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What do you think your chances are of playing the weekend with that score?  
JASON DAY:   I think it's T‑49 right now.   So the way conditions are, it's only going to get a little harder coming in, especially coming in those last few holes are playing pretty tough.   
So it may have a good chance, not too sure, I'm just hoping right now.   
   
 Q.   You prepared diligently for these first two rounds.   Talk about that.   
JASON DAY:   I think my ball striking is not too bad, I've had two 4‑putts and a 3‑putt out there, so that definitely hurts the scorecard.   Just speed issues really for me on the greens.   
I feel good, but it's just hard to really judge the speed when you're leaving yourself in some pretty ugly spots on the greens.   
So I just got to kind of relax on it.   I'm not going to do anything today.   I've been putting since last Thursday, so obviously that's not helping.   I'm going to just go back in and relax tonight and see how it goes from there.  
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
JASON DAY:   Oh, definitely.   It can definitely click.   It just depends on how they're going to set the course up over the next couple of days.   If I'm somewhere ‑‑ if I get into the weekend, and it just all depends on how the leaders go, then if I have a good round, then I'm straight back into the tournament.   
So obviously tomorrow's a big day and it just really depends on how they set the golf course up, if you can attack or not.  
   
 Q.   Where did you have the 4‑putt?  
JASON DAY:   It was on the fringe, but it was still a 4‑putt.   Yeah, it was on 3.   I was above the hole on 3.   
Yesterday I 4‑putted 10 from 25 feet.   
I 3‑putted 17 today.   
So a little disappointing with how the putter is going, but it is what it is.  
   
 Q.   Regardless of the fact that you haven't played after six weeks off.   
JASON DAY:   You guys have been saying that for four weeks.   
   
 Q.   It's still Augusta and you haven't played?  
JASON DAY:   Yeah, after having six weeks off, it's a big one to come back to, obviously, with how the green speeds are.   But there's no excuse with the layoff and the thumb as well.   It's just poor play.   
   
 Q.   How is the thumb?  
JASON DAY:   It's good.   The thumb is fine.   There's no issues with it.   Just the tape's coming off.   That's why sometimes you see me rubbing it, just trying to get the tape back on.   But it's fine.   
   
 Q.   Where will you hang out and watch the golf today to see what the cut does?  
JASON DAY:   I probably won't watch too much golf.   I'll hang out with my little fellow.   I'll go to the gym today, try and let out some anger, and go on from there.   I'll probably just hang out with the family today.   
   
 Q.   Given the course conditions, someone's at 8‑under right now, what's a round like that mean today?  
JASON DAY:   It's a phenomenal round today.   To be 8‑under on this course the way it's been set up the last couple of days.   There's been very difficult pin positions.   I've said before that the green speeds and the firmness of the greens are very difficult for a lot of the players.   It seems like he's handling that pretty well.   I think he's only had maybe one dropped shot over the last 36 holes, so he's playing phenomenal golf.   
But then again, we still have 36 holes left and anything can happen, especially at Augusta.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT