WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 23, 2014
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Jason, last year the final eluded you.   This year you're through to it.   Tell us how excited you are about that prospect. 
JASON DAY:   You know what, that's why we work so hard.   Especially those last six months with the World Cup win last year and the motivation going into this year, I felt really good.   The start of the season, that's all I'm trying to do is win. 
I felt like I had a really good chance at maybe having a shot at winning this week and I'm definitely in the final now and I'm really looking for to it.

Q.   3‑up after 11.   You lose 12.   You get really unlucky at 13 with the way your ball finished and you three‑putt.   What is going your mind at that stage? 
JASON DAY:   Well, the two par‑5s kind of got me on the back nine.   I ended up winning 11.   I hit a got shot into 11, but then it stuffed down to the left there and I got up‑and‑down. 
Hit two good shots down 13.   Little unfortunate where it is, but I just hit it a little soft on that line.   It's no surprise that it went where it was.   To have a lip‑out was pretty brutal, as well. 
I played some nice golf out there today, so hopefully I can keep it going in the finals.

Q.   How do the pressures compare when you're playing this event as opposed to a regular stroke play event when its getting tight toward the end?
JASON DAY:   You know what, it's tough every day.   But with the pressure and the stress of it now, knowing that, okay, in 30 minutes or so I'll know exactly who I'll play to win the event, obviously there is going to be some nerves.   I've got a job to do out there.   I need to execute my game plan that I've had all week and hopefully I can do that.   I'm definitely going to fight until the end.

Q.   You've played 90 holes already.   What's the hardest part, the physical or the mental? 
JASON DAY:   I think it's a bit of both, but I'm ready to go another 36 if I need to.   90 holes in a week is a lot.   Under tournament conditions, mentally and physically, it's demanding.   But that's why I've been working so hard on my fitness and working so hard on my mental side.   I feel ready for it. 

Q.   You jumped on Rickie right out of the gate on the first hole.   Did that pretty much set the tempo for this match in your opinion?
JASON DAY:   At this side of the week, I said to you guys that it's obviously nicer to get off to a good start.   You can set the way that you're going to play the game.   To get off to a good start today was exactly how I kind of planned it. 
Both of us played good golf out there.   The back nine was kind of back and forth.   We didn't know what was going to happen, because if I gave Rickie that inch, I think he would have knocked the door down.   I definitely think, you know, we may have gone that 18. 
But definitely nice to finish on 16 and get in, have some lunch and get ready for the final.

Q.   Big opportunity for you this afternoon in the final mach to get your first WGC victory.   Is it difficult to manage your emotions and treat this final match just like the first match?
JASON DAY:   It's just a day.   It's just like any other day.   It just at the end of this 18, we're done playing golf and we don't have to play 100 plus holes again.   But it's just like any other day and I have a game plan that I need to execute out there.   If we go 18, we go 18.   If we go 36, we go 36.   I'm not going to stop until we find out a winner. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT