WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 23, 2014
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Unbelievable golf this week.   I'm not sure that the average fan gets to appreciate the mental and physical element of playing, but especially to make it to the finals, what an endurance game this was?  
JASON DAY:   Well, we played over 110 holes this week, excluding practice rounds.   So it was 64 of the best players here just trying to put on a great show for you guys.   But it feels like it's been a long time coming since my last win.  
I've worked very, very hard in the off‑season.   I've worked very hard on my physical fitness and mental fitness and it certainly paid off this week.  
   
 Q.   There's an old adage in golf that you get out of it what you put into it, but not necessarily at the same time.   Sometimes you have to lay a foundation.   
JASON DAY:   That was it.   I've heard things in the media saying he's only got one win.   At the end of the day, I've had a lot of consistent finishes in big events and obviously I said to myself I've got to keep working hard and work, work, work, work, work smart.   As long as I don't give up and keep pushing through, it will happen again.   And hopefully happen in bunches.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)   What do you take from this victory in how you maintain your intensity that will help you down the road?  
JASON DAY:   I definitely love match play.   I've been very encouraged and motivated to play well this year.   I've got a lot of things to come, but I think the big thing is keep working smart and don't stop.   You can't just say you want to win, you really have to want to win.   
This week I really wanted to win nothing more than the Walter Hagen Cup.   I'd have loved to finish it a little earlier.   But I had a lot of fun this week and I have to thank a lot of people, the fans, the volunteers, Accenture, my team.   One thing that I'm very honored to be in front of you guys to share this experience with everyone.   It was grueling, but we got it done.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT