THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 16, 2019
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How satisfying was that?
JASON DAY: It was nice to be able to hole that 12-footer on the last.  Like I said, I mean, I was standing over it on the second shot in, had 185 yards or so and the shot itself looked a lot closer, the front of the green is very close, it's 31 paces on or so, so it is close.  Visually it looked close, and I just didn't trust my 7-iron.  I thought my 7-iron was going to go over the back, and tried to take a little bit too much off it and hit it fat and had two really good 2-putts, 16 and 18.  So hopefully it's good momentum going to tomorrow's round.
Q. Jon Rahm was in the media center talking about the need to continue the low scoring tomorrow.  Given the forecast, what's the game plan going in?
JASON DAY: I don't know, I mean, it's -- I'm going to watch a lot of the golf tomorrow morning, see what the scores are, how they're progressing out there.  And then that really indicates on how tough it is.  If the guys are shooting -- if they're 2-under through nine holes then you know there's some gettable holes out there.  But it's always difficult knowing what you have to shoot on a Sunday with regards to what weather we're going to have tomorrow.  I mean, it is going to be cold, we're going to have some rain, the course is going to play a lot longer than what it played today.  We didn't really get rain out there today, and it will be softer if we have a good soaking rain.  So once balls start to squirt off drivers, it makes it tough to hit fairways.  Then this rough, even though everyone's is saying it's short, it starts to get penalizing just because the wet rough is very difficult to get any sort of clean contact and it just comes out dead.
So there's a lot of factors that go into tomorrow's round in regards to how low you have to shoot.  So you just got to go out there and trust in what you're doing and try and post a score somewhere in the 60s, hopefully is good enough.
Q. Is it the harder the better for you though?
JASON DAY: Bud Martin, my agent, always tells me this:  Every time there's tough conditions or a tough golf course, he always walks in and he goes, this is really good for you, and then I laugh and I say, it's easy sitting in the bloody player dining; you know what I mean?  It's stressful; I'm out here losing my hair; it's tough.  I mean, the harder the better?  Yeah, I -- I would like to think so, but just because it's kind of harder for the leaders to get away.  It's a lot easier to come back when it's obviously tough conditions, so there's -- it has to be a lot of patience tomorrow, and that's not only for myself but for everyone because it's going to be frustrating out there tomorrow.
Q. What do you like about your game that sort of inspires you that you could go low tomorrow?
JASON DAY: I'm hitting it nicely.  I feel like I'm driving the ball well and I'm hitting a lot of good quality iron shots.  Unfortunately, I need to putt a little bit better.  But there's a good opportunity there because I think if I can keep that level of play up with my driver and irons, and improve or get back to the standard that I feel like with my putting, then I feel like I've got a really good chance of winning tomorrow.
Q. When you won here a couple years ago on Sunday it was 90 degrees and sunny.  Tomorrow it's 60 degrees and raining probably, is there anything you can draw upon that?
JASON DAY: No.  (Laughter.)
I would like to think so.  I hit 2-iron, 54-degree into 18.  I don't think we're going to be doing that.  I think we're going to be hitting drivers and 5-irons possibly into that 18th hole.  So knowing that I've done it before definitely helps, but it's going to be a totally different golf course, and every time you go in for a win it's always a different feeling to me personally.  So I just got to go into tomorrow like I'm trying to win my first ever event.
Q. Would you have pictured yourself in this position 9 or 10 days ago?
JASON DAY: Not really, no.  I mean, I wasn't really thinking about it to be honest.  I was just trying to get upright and be able to swing.  So it's actually quite nice to have the opportunity be in contention tomorrow, have an opportunity to win, so I'm very blessed about that, and I think if I can walk away hopefully a champion tomorrow, then that's a good little comeback, especially with how I was feeling last week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT