THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 6, 2013
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   6 & 4 victory, you did exactly what Captain Price asked of you. 
JASON DAY:   You know what, it's been a long week for everyone, for the Americans and the internationals.   It was good to finish off with a bang like that.   I've been playing great golf the whole week, and I just wish it was a little bit closer.   I'm going to go support my teammates and hopefully they can pull through.

Q.   You are 3‑1‑1, 5‑under par today. 
JASON DAY:   Yeah, it feels great to come out‑‑ this is obviously my home course, and I really enjoy coming here and playing.   I heard a lot of "USAs" out there but I had a lot of support.   The fans were great this week, and the fanatics that came all the way from Australia, singing the songs and chanting us along, it was great to see.

Q.   What will you take away from this week, the fans and turnout and support? 
JASON DAY:   We had a lot of fun.   The International Team, I don't know how we are going out there, but you know, everyone treated us great and we had a lot of fun.   I'm glad that I finished the way I did.   It was awesome to have my wife being from an hour north of here and having our friends and family in town was fun.   It was a good week regardless of the result.

Q.   What was going so well for you this afternoon against Brandt? 
JASON DAY:   Being familiar with the course, all week we've played in front of big crowds‑‑ not quite as big as it has been due to the weather.   But I felt really comfortable today.   I even felt a little uncomfortable this morning playing the alternate, but I felt really comfortable this afternoon, felt great and went out and played good.

Q.   I bet you're happy your bed is just a couple miles away? 
JASON DAY:   I'm glad I don't have to fly home.   I can just get in my car and drive home, which is nice.   So hopefully we'll have a dinner tonight with the team and go home tomorrow. 

Q.   What's the atmosphere in the locker room been like, last night, especially? 
JASON DAY:   It's kind of hard to tell because guys played round two, round three and round four, so they were tired.   And it's been tough for the guys, but it's been good, like everyone's been having fun on the bus on the way back.   Really don't kind of have a locker room, it's like a player villa everyone hangs out.   It felt like a family.   Everyone was enjoying themselves and joking around and stuff.

Q.   You and Graham kind of knew each other? 
JASON DAY:   Yeah, we kind of knew each other‑‑

Q.   You weren't like best friends like you are now. 
JASON DAY:   We gelled really well this week and it's been fun to play with Graham. 

Q.   Do you foresee playing practice rounds together in the future? 
JASON DAY:   Oh, yeah, we got a long so well, me and Graham, and even Julian, his caddie, we've got similar personalities, so it was good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT