TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 19, 2013
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   [No microphone.]   
JASON DAY:   No practice rounds this week for me.   Fighting a little sinus infection from last week.   But I feel good.   I'm on a Z‑Pack, and I feel much better this week than last week.   
I got off to a good start today.   Just played steady golf out there, which is nice.   I know there's only 30 guys in the field.   
The course is playing pretty fair out there.   I think the greens are rolling nicely for the guys.   Hopefully, we can keep this nice weather for the next three days.  
   
 Q.   When you start with a 60‑footer, is that a big boost, or do you have to calm down?   
JASON DAY:   You know what, I hit a second shot into the 1st, but it just wasn't far enough.   It was good to start off with a good putt like that.   
I putted great all day.   Unfortunately, I didn't hole the last one.   Just a little bit too much with the break, but hit a lot of good, quality putts out there.   Played pretty nice from tee to green.   
I know the fairways can be a little tough coming down the stretch to hit.   I played some good, solid golf, and I'm very happy with the position I'm in right now.  
   
 Q.   [No microphone.]   
JASON DAY:   Well, I pretty good in the Majors this year.   
I'll keep myself going in that direction and hopefully be in contention on Sunday.   It's been a good solid year for me this year.   I worked really hard on the course and off the course.   
I'm pretty much well‑balanced this year.   Everything kind of has been really, really nice for me this year.   No worries at all other than just niggling little injuries.   This year has been a good, solid year for me.   
I just hope I can finish off with a nice one here.   That would be nice.  
   
 Q.   [No microphone.]   
JASON DAY:   It's a pretty long par 3.   I hit a 5 iron into it today, but it's a pretty tough, tough finishing hole.   There's a lot of pitch to the green from back to front.   So there's a lot of space.   
If you read the greens wrong, anything from attacking distance out is pretty tough to hole.   You can't really put a straight putt out there.   
It's a good finishing hole, though.  
   
 Q.   [ No microphone.]  
JASON DAY:   He hits a lot of close shots.   He's pretty much fearless.   He's a young kid, and he's playing great golf this year.   
I think the best thing about him is he's very humble and a really, really good kid.   The amount of success he's had, he's very respectful to the guys out here, which is nice.   
I've played with him a few times, and he's been great to play with.   He's got a lot of great‑‑ his game is really solid.   So he's going to have a long career out here.  
   
 Q.   [ No microphone.]  
JASON DAY:   No, I think I was 19 when I came in.   Iwasn't that good.   I've worked very hard to get to where I am.   
The guy's got a bunch of talent.   It's good to see that he's on the Presidents Cup team.   I know that he had a definite shot at getting onto the team before they actually picked it.   He's had a great season.   
Now as a rookie, he's in the TOUR Championship.   With that said, he obviously did good work to get here.   So that's great.  
   
 Q.   [ No microphone.]  
JASON DAY:   I think it's good that we finish the TOUR Championship and have a couple of weeks off, which is nice.   
Give everybody a chance to rest up and mentally prepare and physically prepare for how tiring the week is.   It's good we have two weeks off before the Presidents Cup starts.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT