DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 31, 2013
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Jason, nice playing out there today.   Get some comments on your round?  
JASON DAY:   Yeah, I drove the ball nicely today and gave myself a lot of opportunities for birdie.   I'm very happy with shooting 4‑under par.   
And I know that Sergio went out there and kind of shot lights out today.   But I'm really looking forward to the position I'm in right now going into the weekend.  
   
 Q.   And your comfort level on this golf course is pretty good, too, isn't it?  
JASON DAY:   Yes.   I've played well here in the past.   And hopefully I can keep it going through the weekend.  
   
 Q.   9 gave you a hard time yesterday, but you finished up with a par there today?  
JASON DAY:   Yes.   Like you said, I left it there on 9.   But today I just drove it‑‑ I hit a good drive down the right today and just hit it on the green and made a birdie putt.   
But it was just a poor drive yesterday.   That pretty much set my double up.   But other than that I've played very nice golf over the last 36 holes.  
   
 Q.   Anything stand out today?  
JASON DAY:   Like I said, I drove the ball really nicely today and I gave myself a lot of opportunities for birdie.   And I think I'm just going to try and just do what I did yesterday on the range and even on the putting green and hopefully they start falling a little bit more over the next couple of days.  
   
 Q.   Is there something about this course that fits your game?  
JASON DAY:   No, I just love playing out here.   When I first came over to the States as a kid I was not too far from here.   So I really enjoy playing in this part of the country and the fans are great.   I've had good finishes here in the past, so obviously good memories every time I come back and play.  
   
 Q.   Is it the fans or what else is it about being up here?  
JASON DAY:   No, I like the golf course here.   The golf course is really nice.   For some reason it fits my eye.   I've just got to keep it going through the weekend.  
   
 Q.   How are the injuries treating you these days?  
JASON DAY:   Not too bad.   I felt like I tweaked my back last week again.   But it's just a strain.   But the biggest thing about a strain is you have to rest it.   But it's kind of hard to rest when you've got a busy season coming up with the playoffs and everything.   I'll rest it at the end of the year.  
   
 Q.   Does it bother you while you're playing, do you feel it?  
JASON DAY:   It's kind of a nagging, a little pain.   But it's not too bad.   It doesn't affect me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT