THE BARCLAYS
August 22, 2013
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   5‑under par 66 in round one, did you get everything you could out of that one?   
JASON DAY:   Definitely.   I hit it out‑of‑bounds on the last hole but made a really good five in the end.   Pretty much hit it in the same spot, really it was going right‑‑ my first one went way right and my second shot off the tee went right as well, and then hit a good shot from there and ended up making a good bogey.   
Yeah, I played good today.   I think I gave myself a lot of opportunities out there for birdie.   I capitalized on a lot of them, and overall, I'm very happy with where I started.  
   
 Q.   You capitalized on birdies, as well as eagles on the 13th hole?  
JASON DAY:   Yeah, I got a really lucky break there.   I hit it just down the left and it was probably going to most likely be in the rough, may not be able to get home just because of the trees there, and I got a lucky kick out to the middle of the fairway.   Hit a good 2‑iron just left of the green there and holed the putt in from off the green, which was nice.   So I was 1‑over at that point early in my round, and that got me a good swing back to get the momentum back my way.   
   
 Q.   You've cultivated quite the reputation of really bringing it on in the bigger events.   Why is that?   Does that just bring the best out of you?   
JASON DAY:   I don't know, I think I really enjoy playing tough golf courses and I just enjoy playing against the best players in the world.   I think at the end of the day, I'm still trying to get No.2 win and I'm trying my best as possibly I can out there to try and achieve that.   
I've had a really good season with the majors, and hopefully I can still carry that into the Playoffs.   
   
 Q.   Just talk about the course conditions, between this morning and now with a little bit of rain, do you think it's going to be a little easier throughout the week or do you think it's going to dry up pretty quickly?  
JASON DAY:   I think it's going to dry out.   With some good weather, I think it's going to dry out pretty quickly, and I think it's going to be good fan golf, which is nice, so hopefully there's plenty of people out.   I think the biggest thing is to try and get the Thursday, Friday rounds in and then get into the weekend.   I believe that we may play a few holes tomorrow, just depending on how the guys go tonight.   But I think the course itself, with all the rain we had, it's definitely drained well, and you know, the greens are running great.   So overall, I think the course handled‑‑ I mean, the greens staff did a wonderful job.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT