U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2013
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (No Microphone.)
JASON DAY:   As long as I keep knocking on the door, I think I'll win a Major here soon. 

Q.   How do you have so much patience to work on this course?
JASON DAY:   Well, Merion just forces you to be patient.   If you want to be around Sunday, you have to be patient, especially in a U.S. Open. 
Unfortunately, things happen in golf and that's just the way it is.   So I think Rose is on the back edge of the green right now with a birdie putt, and if he wins he deserves it.   The course is playing very, very tough.
And at the start of the week everyone thought we were going to rip it up, but I just knew that somewhere around even par was going to win it.   And I just had to stick in there.   So I was very patient with myself and happy with how I handled myself and now I just got to keep giving myself shots at Majors and hopefully win one soon.

Q.   There's a lot of logistical issues here and everything, it's 32 years since a U.S. Open was here.   Do you want to see it come back here again?
JASON DAY:   I think so.   There's not many U.S. Opens where I stand on a tee and hit a 7‑iron off the tee.   It was a fun course to play.   I know it was very difficult course, there's a good mix of long holes with short holes and I think that every club in the bag got a workout this week.   So I think that it would be sad for it not to come back to a U.S. Open.

Q.   You played really well at Aronimink when it was near by, do you like the atmosphere, the Philly fans?
JASON DAY:   I love the Philly fans.   They get a little loud and I think that's cool.   I keep my head down, but the Philly fans are very passionate about their sports and I wouldn't want to see it any other way.   It's great to see them out here screaming and yelling and just being Philly fans. 
I hear a lot, I heard a lot before I actually came here.   I've been here a couple of times now and obviously it's a little louder here at the U.S. Open, but I had a lot of fun with the guys, with the whole fans and it's been a good week. 

Q.   Did 11 really kind of start a trend for you in terms of you were gaining a lot of momentum, got some birdie putts, but 11 it seems like that's where you made the mistakes. 
JASON DAY:   No, I don't think so.   If you look at it, I chipped in for a bogey, which actually kept the momentum rolling my way.   If I would have missed it and if I may not have got up‑and‑down I probably would have had a triple or a double at best.   So I think that that was a good momentum save. 
And then I nearly made the birdie on 13. 
Unfortunately, made the bogey on 14. 
But nearly holed a good putt on 15. 
And had two good saves on 16 and 17. 
You got to understand that, late Sunday of a U.S. Open and U.S. Open courses are very hard.   You can't do anything but kind of grind out.   Like Tiger said at the start of the week, you just got to keep grinding those 10‑footers and just grind away.   So I was happy with how I played.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT