MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 14, 2013
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You hung in there and you finished strong, but not quite enough. 
JASON DAY:   Yeah, 13, 14, 15, was a good setup for obviously taking the lead and I hit a bunch of shots to that back left pin on 16 and unfortunately I hit it too far left.   I had a quick bogey there. 
And then on 17 I only had to go an extra foot to two feet and it would have been over that bunker and I think it would have kicked up to about 15‑20 feet at least. 
It's unfortunate, but very happy with how things are going right now with Adam and I'm hoping that he pulls through and he can be the first player, if it wasn't me. 

Q.   Two of the last three years you've been right in there, how much does this hurt to be so close but yet not get there?
JASON DAY:   I love this tournament regardless of where I finish today.   It's obviously an honor to come this week and play and play against the best players in the world and obviously have a shot at winning my first Major and being the first Australian to win the Masters. 
It's a little disappointing, but there's a lot of experience that I can take into next year and hopefully I can wear one of those green jackets soon.

Q.   You were smiling even when you were missing shots.   What's that about?
JASON DAY:   I think that that's just a coping mechanism maybe.   I think that if I smile and just try and enjoy myself, when I hit bad shots, I won't be so disappointed.   I play better that way.   It was just a few little mental errors here and there, but overall very, very happy about the way I played.

Q.   I think it shows a lot about you, that you're watching the outcome of the golf tournament, I think it spoke a lot about you that you would congratulate Adam or watch Adam. 
JASON DAY:   I'm happy with whoever wins, because they have done the work and they have worked very hard to get here and they have played four great rounds of golf. 
I'm really pulling for Scotty, I know that he's come so close so many times in Majors and he really does deserve it.   He's worked very, very hard and he's had a great career.   Right now I know there's a playoff going on and I'm really praying that he pulls through.

Q.   You were leading the tournament with three holes to go, right where you want to be.   What happened coming down the stretch?
JASON DAY:   Well, like I said before, I hit a ton of shots today back left pin, and I just rotated the hands a little bit too much and kind of shut it down, and it went a little long.   I was hoping that the putt was going to be a little closer than what it was, and unfortunately I hit a terrible third putt‑‑ or second putt there to bogey the hole. 
You know, 17 I hit a great drive and hit a really nice 8‑iron at the pin.   It was dead at it, and it only had to go a couple feet, and it would have been over that bunker and maybe 15, 20 feet and would have had an opportunity to obviously make a birdie there. 
But very, very happy with how I played because 13, 14, 15 was a very tough stretch, and I made birdies there to get myself into the lead.   I haven't obviously had the lead too many times in majors, and very happy with how things went this week.   I prepared very nicely, and I'm pulling for Scottie right now. 

Q.   Is that really all you can ask for is to have a shot at the end?
JASON DAY:   Well, that's just it.   If you can have a shot in most majors, sooner or later you're going to get one.   I can't look at the week as a disappointment.   Obviously I'd love to wear the green jacket.   I've been dreaming about it since I was a kid.   I think I've just got to take the experience and just keep going on. 

Q.   Was that an 8‑iron on 7 that came up short of the bunker? 
JASON DAY:   That was a 9‑iron.   I mean, another couple of feet that would have been perfect, too. 

Q.   Did the rain affect you much? 
JASON DAY:   A little bit, yes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT