MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2013
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your first time having the lead at a Major Championship at the end of a round.   How do you feel like you handled it?  
JASON DAY:   I was patient enough out there.   Unfortunately, I 3‑putted 17 and 18, so I'm not disappointed.   Obviously I would love to have the lead, but I'm a couple back for tomorrow's round and now's a good opportunity to go out there tomorrow and obviously try and win my first Major.   
   
 Q.   You were right there two years ago here.   What have you learned from that experience that you can apply to tomorrow?  
JASON DAY:   Masters Sunday is always very nerve wracking, so I think patience is a big key out there tomorrow.   Being very patient with your self and staying patient with the bounces and the ups and downs out there, because there's certainly going to be a lot of ups and downs and I just have to try and get off to a good start tomorrow and just hang around and that's pretty much what I learned two years ago, I just hung around and I was in it pretty much at the end.   
   
 Q.   Do you think the finish today is going to force you to be a little more aggressive tomorrow?  
JASON DAY:   No.   It's hard to be aggressive with greens that we have here.   They're difficult enough with, when they're soft, so they were playing pretty firm out there today and they were pretty quick.   
So if they're going to be anything like today, it's just going to be a waiting game, trying to makes a many pars and as many birdies as you can.   But just hang around.   
   
 Q.   Freddie just said that he thought his play on 17 might have held you up a little bit.   
JASON DAY:   No, no, no.   Freddie is such a nice guy.   He meant well by saying that, but he's not hitting my putt.   
Unfortunately I 3‑putted.   I wasn't really paying attention to what he was doing.   Obviously when I'm out there I got to pay attention to what I'm doing.   He's such a good guy to play with and it's unfortunate the way he played today.   I'm hoping that he comes out and plays better tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Three Australians have a shot at the Green Jacket tomorrow.   What do you think about that?  
JASON DAY:   It's a great opportunity for all of us to be the first.   There's been some great, so many Aussies in the past that have had an opportunity to win the Masters and fell short a little bit.   So if it happens tomorrow, that's great.   If it doesn't, then we're going to keep plugging away.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT