MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2013
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about your day.   
JASON DAY:   Yeah, it was good.   It wasn't too bad.   I mean, started out a little average, but came home nicely.   Made six birdies out there today, which was good.   
I really enjoyed playing the back nine.   Just got to tighten up a few little just soft bogeys out there.   I think that if I can do that, then hopefully the momentum will still keep going in the right direction and hopefully I can post some better scores.  
   
 Q.   It says a lot when you can make those mistakes and yet still come in here 2‑under and looking pretty good, only four back at the moment.   
JASON DAY:   I prepared well this week.   I did a lot of really, really good solid preparation before the Tournament and it's just a little nervous at the start and started off a little average.   
But like you said, I came home strong, made a good birdie at 8, a good birdie at 9, just to get the momentum rolling to the back nine.   
I just said to myself, if I can go to the par‑5s, that gets me to 2, I can maybe sneak one or two here coming in and it would be a pretty good score.   And I was 3‑under and unfortunately I bogeyed the last, but just overall very, very happy.  
   
 Q.   It was an all‑world par at 5.   A sensational par at 5.   And then obviously not so great at 6.   You were stubby twice.   
JASON DAY:   Yeah, well, I mean I was just, I had, obviously I had a great up‑and‑down at 5.   
And then 6 I just leaked it a little too far right and it's a tough pin up there on the top right and I was stuck in between shots there.   I didn't know if I was going to hit a high flop or hit it into the fringe and let it roll down.   I just watched Padraig hit his short and run all the way back down the hill so I'm like, God, I don't feel like doing that.   
So, unfortunately, I made a double bogey there, but overall very happy with how I started.   I just got to get some good practice in this afternoon and move on to the next round.   
   
 Q.   How close were you on 14 on your approach there?  
JASON DAY:   Oh, I had 130 yards.   
   
 Q.   How close did you hit it?  
JASON DAY:   I hit it to, I believe it was eight feet or so.   
   
 Q.   You must enjoy playing with Ricky?  
JASON DAY:   He's a good bloke.   He hit some errant drivers here and there, and he was kind of, what would you say?   Like Arnold Palmer, Bubba Watson like, out of the trees.   
He had a magnificent birdie on 17 which was pretty special.   He said he had about an 8, 10 feet gap and he said, well, yeah, you would see it as well.   And I thought, well, I would probably see it, but I probably wouldn't pull it off.   
   
 Q.   Had you ever seen two balls hit at the same time ever?  
JASON DAY:   I had no idea what was going on.   Padraig, I guess he was in his own little world, and he thought that ‑‑ he actually thought that Ricky was on the green and then they both hit at the same time and I was just like, what's going on?   So, but it ended up all right.   Ricky made par and moving on to the next.   
   
 Q.   What did you hit second shot into 18?  
JASON DAY:   7‑iron.   I was only trying to ‑‑ I had 1 ‑‑ I can tell you real quick.   Actually, I don't have it.   I had I think it was 188 to the top.   I was trying to hit it 185 or so.   And I flew it to about 190, 195, something like that, in between there.   
I don't know if I was pumped or if I was just in the upslope and I kind of delofted a little bit.   I did pull it a little bit, that's why it went a little longer, but surprising that it went that far.   
   
 Q.   What specifics will you practice on when you go and practice?  
JASON DAY:   I'm just going to go try and probably just cool down, hit a few balls, maybe just do a little bit of putting and that's about it.   
I'm pretty tired after today.   Obviously going around here can be mentally grinding.   So I'm just going to try and rest up as much as I can.  
   
 Q.   Any memorable interactions with Ricky and the fans?   Ricky, he tends to attract a bunch of fans.   
JASON DAY:   Yeah, on 17 he had them laughing a couple times there.   So, no, he really enjoys going out there and playing and interacting with fans and just having a good time.   
He said when he, after he hit the drive, he goes, as long as I got a swing, I got a shot.   So he had a shot and made birdie, so it was good for him.  
   
 Q.   A page from the Bubba handbook.   
JASON DAY:   Yeah, exactly.   
(Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   Did you look at the leader board?  
JASON DAY:   Yeah, Leish, that's good.   I heard he was under the weather though.   So I guess you just got to watch out for the wounded golfer, right?   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT