WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 21, 2013
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Give us an assessment of that.   I take it all your good work was really done yesterday?
JASON DAY:   Yeah, it really was.   I think I finished 5‑under for the round, but obviously most of that chunk of the total there was from yesterday's round, being 6 up after 10.

Q.   Doesn't get much better than that. 
JASON DAY:   It really doesn't.   Like I said, when I was getting interviewed earlier, it can go two ways, you can either finish it quick or you can drag it out and make it go extra holes if you want to.   I just wanted to make sure that I played smart.   I just wanted to go out there and hit greens and force him to hit the good shots. 

Q.   Awesome to get off to a good start, isn't it?
JASON DAY:   Yes. 

Q.   Preferred opponent?   They're all good players, aren't they?
JASON DAY:   Yeah, we've got the top 64 guys here, so I think Russell Henley is the guy, Russell Henley or Charl Schwartzel are the guys that I'm going to complete against.   I think Charl is 2‑down currently, I'm not too sure.   But either way they're‑‑ you've got the best golfers in the world, so you just have to try and focus on your own game and keep pushing forward and hopefully get up early in the round.

Q.   Was your performance good?   Was your ball‑striking good?
JASON DAY:   Yeah, everything was‑‑ I think I missed two greens out of the 13 holes that I played.   I hit a lot of good quality shots, and I putted great, so obviously holing a 40‑footer on‑‑ I believe it was 4, and then a 20‑footer on 5, and then another 10‑footer on 6 to get that momentum rolling was obviously good. 

Q.   Quick word on the course, how is it holding up?
JASON DAY:   Considering what happened with the snow, we had at least two to three inches, we expected it was going to be slow and soft.   They didn't get out and mow the greens obviously because they were trying to dry them out.   But the fairways and greens were soft.   That's what we expected, and it was really, really good‑‑ they moved well and said we were going to play preferred lie for the next hole on, which was very smart on their behalf. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT