HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 19, 2012
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Jason Day, thanks for joining us for a few minutes, 2010 HP Byron Nelson Championship winner.   You're right back in the thick of things heading into the final round tomorrow, 3‑under, 67 today.   Just make a few comments.   
JASON DAY:   Yeah, I played great.   Obviously it was tough conditions out there today with the wind, but I felt like I was trying to stay as patient as possible and got away with a few shots out there, but overall very, very happy with how the day went.   
   
 Q.   What is it about this that favors you so well?   We mentioned the win in 2010, you finished fifth here last year, and here you are again.   
JASON DAY:   Right, I don't know.   Obviously I love the course.   I used to live here locally, I still have the place in Ft. Worth, and I have friend that come and support me.   My wife and her dad are down, so we have friends and family which is nice to have in town.   
I really like how the course sets up.   I feel like my game suits this course, and with the tough conditions normally, it's pretty windy, as everyone knows around here, and I feel like I'm a pretty good wind player.   
   
 Q.   What is it about the 18th hole that makes it so difficult?   I know especially for you!   
JASON DAY:   Right.   It wasn't difficult today, I just‑‑ today I hit a nice 2‑iron down there, a great second shot in there and my putt‑‑ the second putt‑‑ the first putt wasn't the greatest, but the second was a decent putt, and I just hit it too hard through the break.   One day that hole will pay me back, and hopefully it's tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Having won here, you've been here and done it.   Does that help you going into tomorrow?   
JASON DAY:   Um, it certainly has good memories there of winning here.   But tomorrow is going to be tough.   There is a lot of extremely outstanding golfers up there on top of the leaderboard that I have to play against tomorrow.   
You know, the weather is going to be very, very tough again, I think, from what I've heard; it's going to blow again.   
I just have to go out there and play my own game and not worry about what my playing partner is doing or what the guy behind me or in front of me is doing.   I just have to stay disciplined within myself and obviously like the old cliche, take it one shot at a time and just be 100% committed on that single shot.   
   
 Q.   Jason, at the kick‑off luncheon just a year ago you talked about trying to find the balance between the emotional part of the game, being a new champion, newly married, balancing family.   How is that coming along now?   
JASON DAY:   It's coming along nicely.   As you can see my wife is pregnant, eight weeks left, so it's exciting stuff.   The first one, you know, is always exciting.   I'm a little nervous because I don't know what to do, but I know as we go along I'll kinda pick it up.   We've been to classes and, I don't know, I think I'm going to be more of a kid than that kid in there, so it's‑‑ I'm really, really excited with how things are going in my life.   Like you said, I've been trying to find a balance and I feel like I've‑‑ it's starting to finally come around.   
I would‑‑ if I didn't play a good round I would take it home, and I would be down on myself and I would take it out on the people closest to me.   That's not how I want things to go.   I'm enjoying myself more on the course and whatever happens on the course stays on the course.   
It's very hard to separate those things sometimes, but I feel like I'm doing a better job of it now, and I'm just having fun.   
   
 Q.   Will we get to talk about changing diapers next year?   
JASON DAY:   You will, definitely.   I don't know, right now kind of‑‑ it's kind of grossing me out to think about changing diapers, but once it's your own kid, right, that's what they say, once it's your own kid, it changes everything.   You said no?   
THE MODERATOR:   No, it doesn't.   (Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   It does change; you'll be fine.   Just wondering, with the winds out here, this is pretty much the southerly wind.   You can't get away with much out there, so when you come in, you're maybe one back, do you take satisfaction out of the round knowing that there are probably not many tougher days you're going to see when it's blowing like this?   
JASON DAY:   It was pretty tough out there today.   I kinda set myself a mark at the start of the week.   If you can shoot 2‑under a day, that should be somewhere around the lead by the end of Sunday if we had the weather, which we do.   I got lucky on Thursday, as everyone knows, it didn't blow as hard, but the last two days, it's been a stiff breeze.   I got lucky on the side of my draw.   We had no wind on Thursday, and I came out early Friday morning and got through some holes without the wind.   
Today was very, very tough.   It was more mentally draining than physically.   Obviously physically draining, but I was very happy with my thoughts out there.   It's hard to stay committed to shots when, like you said, the southerly comes in.   There are cross breezes, you don't know whether it's in or down as well so it's‑‑ you have to be committed to the shot that you're playing.   I was very, very happy that I committed to most of the shots out there, which was nice.   
   
 Q.   Would you say then that it's conducive to the ten‑car pile‑up we're getting here where so many are going to go out tomorrow and have a good chance?   
JASON DAY:   It's going to be tough tomorrow; it really is going to be tough.   Like I said, there are a lot of great golfers up there, and it's going to be tough to win this tournament.   The guy that obviously makes the least amount of mistakes out there tomorrow is going to win.   That's just how things are going to go.   So I feel like I'm in a good spot for tomorrow right now and I just got to try and relax tonight, get my head away from golf and come in and play tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Think about diapers?   
JASON DAY:   Exactly, think about how smelly they're going to be, right?   
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Jason.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT