COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
February 5, 2012
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JASON DAY:   It's been a very successful week.   You know, I did everything I could today to try and catch him.   I think he's pretty much got it in the bag.   I mean 17 is not playing too tough today.   The wind isn't up as much as the last two days, few days, actually. 
But you know, very, very excited to get home and play on the PGA TOUR to try and take this momentum into the PGA TOUR. 
But I've enjoyed myself over the last couple of weeks in the Middle East.

Q.   Talking about momentum, you had it on two occasions in particular.   Four birdies to start, another four for the Back 9?
JASON DAY:   Yeah.   Well, I really needed to do something.   I got really unlucky on 9.   I hit a drive just down the right and just kind of faded just a little bit.   I thought it was going to be just in the right rough where I could kind of lay up and maybe make a birdie, but it was stuck right underneath a rock, like someone pretty much picked it up and placed it there.   It couldn't be any worse.
But I just tried to be patient and just ‑‑ you know, I got off to a great start on the Back 9 which was nice, and kind of just rolled with my momentum, and I'm just very happy with how I played.

Q.   And how much attention do you pay to leader boards at that kind of stage when you're chasing the game?
JASON DAY:   You know, at that stage when I was teeing off at the Back 9 I knew I was around most of the guys, and Paul was out there, he pretty much had control of the lead.
I missed the leaderboard on 13, and that's when I rolled off three birdies, and then I rolled in the next birdie on 14.   And you know, I played great golf coming in.   I just didn't really putt that great.   And I saw the leaderboard on 16, I knew I had to birdie the last few holes, and you know, I just kind of ran out of steam there for a little bit.

Q.   I take it overall you're proud of yourself the way you've prospered in the windy conditions?
JASON DAY:   Yeah, the second tournament back for the year, it's very, very positive, and I'm looking forward to just taking this finish and just kind of rolling it into the start of the PGA TOUR.

Q.   Will you roll it onto the European Tour at any other stage during this year?
JASON DAY:   You know what, I think I'll be back definitely for the Open, and I've had a couple of offers to come back over.   And you know, we just never know. 
There's obviously certain things that come up.   We're having our first child, and that's right around the Open time.   So hopefully she has it early and we can come over to the Open. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT