COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
February 4, 2012
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How do you reflect on two rounds over three days?
JASON DAY:   Yeah, no, it's ‑‑ I think I was just a little flat today.   I came out and I had a very quick three‑putt on 17 and out of nowhere really, and just had a few loose drives. 
But no, overall very happy that I stuck in there, and my short game was very solid today to keep me in the game, and we'll see how it goes, you know.   It feels like it's pretty similar to yesterday.   The wind is not up as much, but it's going to be tough for the guys out there, so hopefully I'll be close to the lead by the end of the day.

Q.   I know it's history now, but how do you reflect on the second day when you were very steady out there despite the weather conditions?
JASON DAY:   Yes.   You know, it's over.   You know, obviously you can't look back on it and say they should have called it earlier or they should have let us play.   That's just how things are, you know.   If balls are moving out there and people don't want to play because their balls are moving, that's just how it goes. 
It's a little bit of a momentum ‑‑ my momentum stopped a little bit today, but I'm glad I just hung in there.

Q.   So reading between the lines, you'd have liked to carry on and test yourself against those elements?
JASON DAY:   Yeah, yeah.   I feel it's more of a challenge, and I like playing hard courses when it's really windy like this.   And you know, I know it's going to be very, very tough today, and it's going to be very similar to yesterday's round in the first day, but like I said, just hopefully I'll be around the lead at some point today.

Q.   Obviously you've touched on this, but where do you fancy you will be if the weather improves a little bit, I guess there's a few more scores to be made?
JASON DAY:   Yeah, there is.   If it improves like they say it's going to in the afternoon, you know, the pins are very accessible out there.   So we'll see.   You know, it just all comes down to how the guys are playing in the afternoon, and obviously just the weather. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT