TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 23, 2011
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. It seemed like a good day with you and Adam kind of feeding off each other. Talk about the round. 
 JASON DAY: It was great. Scottie didn't have the best start out there but came home very strong. He hit it very solid after a couple holes out there and came home very strong, birdied the last two holes to finish at 8. 
 You know, my day was a little up and down, a couple bogeys here and there, but overall very happy with where I am right now.

 Q. How relaxed were the two of you playing out there together?
 JASON DAY: It's fun. Hopefully we get paired together at the Presidents Cup. All of us have been talking about it out there, and we're very pumped for The Presidents Cup. 
 I've known Scottie since I was 15, so we're pretty good mates, and it was a lot of fun out there.

 Q. Does it fire you up when he drains a birdie? Do you want to drain one back?
 JASON DAY: It was kind of like that. I'm in front and then he comes back, and then he's in front and I want to come back. It does fire you up, you know, because everyone is in it to win it, and you just want to go out there and play the best you can, yeah.

 Q. With the guys out in front in the points list not doing terribly great, you're still in a good position to win this whole thing. Do you think about that at all?
 JASON DAY: No, I'm not going to try and think about it at all. First things first, you have to win the tournament. If you win the tournament, you have a good chance of winning the $10 million, the FedExCup. What I'm trying to focus on right now is just go hit some balls on the range this afternoon and not worry about it at all.

 Q. The five guys who contended in the Masters are high on the board: you, Scott, Choi, Donald, Ogilvy. Is there any rhyme or reason other than -- the grasses are different but you're in the same state? 
 JASON DAY: Not really. I think everyone is -- it's 30 guys. If you put a good week in, you can finish in the top 10, top 5, maybe a win. I think everyone -- all the guys that are coming into this event are playing good, I guess they're coming off some good form over the last couple weeks, so that certainly helps with the confidence.

 Q. I know this is kind of a hypothetical question given your situation and the math, but would you rather have the win or the FedExCup?
 JASON DAY: Well, I'd like to have $10 million. But right now I think I'm going to play plenty of FedExCups, so I'd like a win. It's been one of my goals to win each year, and right now I'd like to win. But if I can do that and win the FedExCup, that would be great. Obviously the goal is to win the FedExCup one day, and right now it would be a nice win.

 Q. You just mentioned you're going to go to the range. That's not your usual post-round ritual. Any specific reason?
 JASON DAY: I just hit a few right just trying to hit a draw, and they came out right and cutting. So it was just more of a double kind of a cross, so I just want to go out there and try and tighten things up a little bit. I didn't hit it that bad. I felt like I drove the ball pretty good. It wasn't like off the map. There was a couple shots where they weren't that great into the greens, but you can't hit them perfect all the time, unless you're Scottie. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT