TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 25, 2011
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JASON DAY: I was looking at the leaderboard, seeing what I needed to do, and I made a good run on the back nine to try and catch the lead. I caught it on the 17th hole, but unfortunately I hit a bad shot on 17 off the tee, and it was a very, very tough second shot.   
 It's just golf. That's how it is. You know, overall I'm not disappointed. Obviously I'm a little disappointed that I bogeyed the last two holes, but I was trying to win out there. Anything other than a win was going to be disappointing for me. But overall this year has been a very successful year, and I'm looking forward to next year.  
  
  Q. Down the stretch how much did nerves play a factor, and how did it compare to, say, the major championship pressure you've felt twice this year?  
 JASON DAY: I wasn't nervous on the back nine. I was nervous on the front nine, and that's why I hit it everywhere on the front nine. You know, I was -- I don't know, I felt focused, I felt like I was in a good spot, and I just had to commit and hit the shots. Just like I said, a little disappointed that I bogeyed 17. Obviously I had a good chance, and trying to birdie 18 is very, very tough.  
  
  Q. Was it just a case of missing just one too many putts, the lip-out earlier, 15, the eagle? You had some close, close putts.   
 JASON DAY: Yeah, there were a lot of good putts. Obviously a lip-out, a couple of other putts that could have gone in. But you know, I'm just glad I gave myself the opportunity to at least give myself a chance at winning the FedExCup and winning the TOUR Championship.   
 This is good experience going into next year's season, what I've done this year, and hopefully I can win it next year. That would be nice.  
  
  Q. You talked about all the things that were going through your head. On the back nine coming down those last four holes, you were doing the math, weren't you?  
 JASON DAY: Yes, yes, definitely. Everyone knows how tough 16, 17 and 18 are. So Bill was at 9-under, and I knew that he's probably going to bogey at least one of them, and that was just me going out on a limb there. I just said, okay, well, I'm 8-under, I hit a great drive down 16, I was pumped about that because it's a very tough driving hole, then I hit a pretty good putt on that hole, and I made par.   
 Then 17 just -- it actually wasn't that hard of a shot, I hit it a little high on the golf club and hit the tree and took a little sting out of it. But it's tough to get a lot of spin on these bunker shots out there. But yeah, I was calculating seeing what I needed to do out there.  
  
  Q. What about the putt on 17?  
 JASON DAY: Bobbled left straight off the club. I hit the putt and it just went left straight off the club. It's unfortunate, but the greens are so pure here. There's only 30 guys walking on the greens each day, and Bermuda can be very, very funny with how the grain works. Obviously you'd love to hit every putt true, but that's just grass, that's just Bermudagrass. It's just never going to be true.  
  
  Q. Ten top 10s this year. You've got to take a lot out of that even though you didn't get that W?  
 JASON DAY: Yeah, definitely. One of my goals was to win, and I had a good shot today. I've had a lot of fun this year. I've done well in majors, had a lot of good top 10s. I've contended in a lot of tournaments. Unfortunately I haven't finished them off, but I know -- hopefully if I can work hard over the off-season and do the right things, do the little things that count, I can come back next year strong and win maybe one or two.   
  
  Q. And you can have an assault now on the Australian summer?  
 JASON DAY: Yeah, I'm looking forward to getting down to Australia, and obviously I'm going to go home and just try and take my mind off golf for a little bit, but when it comes down to heading back down to Australia and getting ready for that, it's going to be great. It's my first Presidents Cup, and I'm really, really looking forward to it.  
  
  Q. When you say if you do the right things in the off-season, do you have anything in mind?  
 JASON DAY: Just go in the gym, working on the right things on the golf course, obviously mentally. I have certain goals that I want to reach by the time I get to Australia, so all of these little things count, so I've just got to work hard.  
  
  Q. Is there an example?  
 JASON DAY: Just little things, just go on the golf course, working on my short game, going to the gym, working on the little things that count.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT