WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 7, 2011
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Just stalk about the day, hanging in there. 
 JASON DAY: Yeah, I got off to a great start birdieing the first hole, then came back and gave it away early. 
 I hit a great drive down the second and just hit an awful second shot, had a three-putt on that green. But I knew that I just had to stick around, stick around, and I felt like I did that. I felt like I hit it great all day, and you know, when I had the opportunities, I just didn't capitalize on them. When you have those opportunities, when your game is just average through the day, sticking around, those opportunities, if you hole them, they can kind of propel you to make more birdies coming home.

 Q. You birdie 1, flying start; 2 must have been a disappointing bogey there. 
 JASON DAY: Yeah, it was, definitely. Got off to a great start, like I said, and I just hit an awful second shot, and that bunker is really hard to get it close. 
 After I bogeyed that hole, I knew I needed to just stick around, just see what I can do. There was plenty of holes left, and it felt like the day went really, really quick today. I don't know if that was mentally or just -- it was just how the course was playing. But another top 5 finish, which is nice, in a pretty big event, so I'm looking forward to next week.

 Q. Talk a little bit about Adam. Obviously you didn't play your best, but he played very well today. Would have been really hard to beat him. 
 JASON DAY: Yeah, I walked on the range this morning, and he looked confident. He looked -- I knew he was going to be tough to beat today, and he was hitting it great on the range, too. I hear that he didn't make a bogey, which is phenomenal out there in the last round of a very big event. So you know, he deserves it, definitely. 

 Q. Have you noticed since Steve has been with him he's got a bit of swagger about him?
 JASON DAY: Yeah, he does. Yeah, he does. And obviously it's good, good to see. There was a moment there for a little bit where he was just struggling a little bit with his confidence. It's good to see him back on top and winning the WGC.

 Q. What about from a country standpoint? Obviously it's been a great run for the guys from Northern Ireland, now the Aussies. Even though top 5 is great, you obviously want to win, but are you happy for your fellow countryman?
 JASON DAY: I'm definitely happy. He was going through a very, very tough period there a couple years ago, and he just lost a little bit of confidence. But now Stevie is working for him, I think, like I said, he's gained that confidence back. And he's got the new putter in the bag and he's been putting great ever since Augusta. Really he performed great there, and I'm very happy for him.

 Q. As did you. 
 JASON DAY: Yeah, thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT