DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 4, 2011
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Nice putt there on the last, nice playing, great position you're in again.   
 JASON DAY: Yeah, it's exciting. You know, it's always good to be in contention, especially in a Playoff event. I know that if I can finish solid tomorrow, if I win, it's going to obviously propel me up the FedExCup rankings and hopefully secure a spot in the TOUR Championship, which would be nice. But first things first. I'm just going to go back and rest up tonight and just try and relax and mentally prepare to play tomorrow.   
  
  Q. How is the comfort level you're gaining around this place?  
 JASON DAY: You know, I really, really enjoy coming back here. Like I said yesterday, when I first came over and started playing amateur events, one of the first tournaments that I played was the Northeast Amateur, which is at Wannamoisett, and it's not too far down the road here. The people are great here. They've always treated me really, really great.   
 I really like the golf course. I think it sets up really nice for me. I don't know what it is. We're really close here in the RV, and it just feels good. I feel really good about my game right now.  
  
  Q. Did you dodge a bullet on 12 today?  
 JASON DAY: I did, yeah, I did. I hit it right, hit it right again, and I hit a really good pitching wedge out of -- it was 157 yards to the pin, and the wind was in out of the left, and I hit a really, really solid pitching wedge flier actually out of a hole and finished up nicely about 20 feet above the hole and just missed it.   
  
  Q. How do you think tomorrow is going to play out? Scores were not as good obviously this afternoon as they were in the morning.   
 JASON DAY: I hear it's going to be breezy again tomorrow. I think you'll probably see much of the same. Maybe it'll play a little bit tougher. It just depends how they set the golf course up. If we have good weather tomorrow, it's firm out there, so it just depends on if they want to make it tough, they can make it tough with pin locations. I'm sure they're going to make some gettable pins, but they're going to try to make it as exciting as possible.   
  
  Q. Interesting leaderboard. You've got the long bombers and the shorter players.   
 JASON DAY: It's setting up for a great tournament, great finish, which is good. The names are up there, and I think that's good for the game of golf right now and it's good for the FedExCup Playoffs. No one knows what's going to happen tomorrow, so I think I've just got to come out tomorrow and take it a shot at a time.   
  
  Q. So many guys have so many different goals, Presidents Cup, East Lake; there's a lot of things going through people's minds?  
 JASON DAY: Yeah, there is. The toughest thing is to keep those thoughts out of your mind. You know that if you play well, certain perks are going to come along with playing well. And sometimes that can hurt your playing. I think the biggest thing is just to go out there and just concentrate on your own game and just focus and try -- I guess some people try to look at leaderboards. I like to look at leaderboards; some people don't. I think the biggest thing is just to feel comfortable playing your own game and just be patient out there.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT