WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 5, 2011
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk about the differences in round 1 and round 2. 
 JASON DAY: I actually felt like I played -- I didn't play as good as yesterday obviously. I didn't hit the ball as good as yesterday and didn't putt as good as yesterday, but I still felt like the game was solid. I gave myself opportunities out there, which was nice, and I just didn't take advantage of them. It was hard to back up a good score with another good score. And golf is a funny game, can be great one day and hard the next day, so obviously I'm looking forward to the next two days. 

 Q. I know that we've spoken about this over the last two months, probably since Colonial, that you're coming to Ohio and it was talked about yesterday. Did you ever think that you would be having your primary residence be in Ohio when you were growing up in Australia? 
 JASON DAY: No, no. Obviously we still have two places. We're down in Dallas and we spend most of the time there, but during the nice months we're up here. 
 Obviously it's -- we live out in the country, which is nice, and it's nice and quiet. Growing up in the city, I never, ever thought that I was going to come to Ohio.

 Q. And Ellie mentioned that it's going to be cold. You kind of had winters in Australia but nothing where there could be severe snow. 
 JASON DAY: No, nothing like that, nothing.

 Q. How are you going to adapt to that?
 JASON DAY: Well, we probably won't be here. Probably won't be here. As long as I'm not playing golf, I'm happy with snow. If I'm playing golf, then obviously I can't stand it. But I really enjoy hot weather. Obviously I'm wearing black today. But I enjoy playing golf in hot weather, and playing golf in cold weather is a little bit of a struggle with me.

 Q. I was going to ask about the choice of color. It didn't bother you?
 JASON DAY: No, not at all. Everyone was yelling out to me today, I was actually fine. I didn't feel anything at all. I actually, like I said, enjoy hot weather because it keeps my body loose. If I'm playing in cold weather, like the British or earlier on in season, it's kind of tough to stay loose.

 Q. So it wasn't frustrating not to sort of go a little lower and try to --
 JASON DAY: You know, the course is still playing tough. I haven't actually seen the scores, but I think the lowest score today was by Rickie, I guess. It was out there, but it's playing tough. This course is a very tough course, and no, I just wanted to come out and try and execute the shot in front of me. Like I said, it's a finicky kind of game; one day you're playing great and the next day you're trying to grind it in.

 Q. Still right there?
 JASON DAY: Still right there, yeah, I'm still right there. I'm one shot back with two days left, so you never know what's going to happen. 

 Q. Who got more people talking, you or Phil with the pink pants?
 JASON DAY: He got a lot more compliments. People were saying, I like your pants. The only people commenting on my outfit were people saying, are you hot, but that's about it.

 Q. You stiffed it on 12 for that birdie, looked like you dropped that drive down the next hole. Was it in a divot?
 JASON DAY: Yeah, it was in a divot.

 Q. Stole your momentum right there?
 JASON DAY: Actually it was in a divot and just hit a little bit behind it, and it was tough to get down to it. I knew I needed to catch the ball first, and hit it a little fat, and obviously had a good 50-yard pitch shot over the bunker and made a good up-and-down, so it wasn't much -- I came back the next hole and hit a great 7-iron into that hole and missed that putt. But it was just little key putts here and there just to keep the momentum going. 

 Q. Obviously we talked about you changing the putter. You still feel good with it?
 JASON DAY: Yeah, I do feel good with it. I'm not going to practice today. I hit good putts out there today, I just misread them, so can't do anything about it.

 Q. Is the crowd treating you like an Ohioan?
 JASON DAY: No, I don't think they know I live here. Give it a couple years. Hopefully they turn around. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT