PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2011
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tough way to finish.   
 JASON DAY: It's certainly tough. I don't know, just 15 certainly is a tough hole to start on and then obviously 16, 17 and 18 are very tough, as well. I'm just a little heated right now, but I can't do anything about it. It's in the past, so I've just got to look forward to tomorrow.  
  
  Q. You were in cruise control, 3-under through 15 holes, in command of your game.   
 JASON DAY: Yeah, I was playing really, really nicely, and then just the last four holes got me, so hopefully I can just have a better round tomorrow.  
  
  Q. What was the best part of your game? What are you really proud of today?  
 JASON DAY: Actually, you know, I didn't drive it as straight, but I felt like I swung the club pretty well today. I hit a lot of good quality shots but I putted really nicely today, and that's what saved me out there a little bit. Unfortunately I didn't finish it off, but oh, well.  
  
  Q. Was it a little bit tiresome for you or troublesome having to wait? Did it affect you?  
 JASON DAY: It's a little hard waiting, but obviously it shouldn't affect you at all. You've got to hit the shot one way or another; whether it's ten minutes earlier or ten minutes later, you've still got to pull off the shot. I'm not blaming anything other than just poor shots out there.  
  
  Q. You're still very much in it. Do you just sort of block out your finish today and carry on tomorrow?  
 JASON DAY: Well, I can't do anything about what happened today. I can only go on and try and improve on the score. I'm going to try and get through the last four holes tomorrow in even par if I can and try and attack the rest of the course.  
  
  Q. You are playing in the morning tomorrow. Do you think this golf course is a little softer than normal?  
 JASON DAY: It's going to be a little softer, but it's still going to play relatively firm. I think it just depends on the weather. I don't think we'll get too much wind hopefully. I'm not too sure if they got a lot of wind this morning, but I know that we did get a lot of wind this afternoon -- well, 10 miles, 10, 15 miles an hour, but it was a lot tougher in the afternoon as you can tell by the scores on the board.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT