WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 4, 2011
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Just talk about your round today.   
 JASON DAY: Yeah, I hit driver well and hit a lot of good quality iron shots into the greens. I didn't stomp it all day, but I hit it to a good 15 to 20 feet all day. My putter was good all day. I hit a lot of good quality putts and felt -- like I said, it felt like it was a boring kind of a game. It was down the middle, on the green, and every two or three holes was a birdie which was nice.   
  
  Q. Course a little soft today?  
 JASON DAY: Yeah, it was definitely soft. I don't know if we had a lot of rain, but it's been soft over the last four days when I got here. You know, hopefully we can get sun the next three days trying to get them to bake out a little bit.   
  
  Q. We were talking earlier this week about good preparation and how important that was and how it was a little bit off at the British. Can you talk a little bit about your preparation this week? Obviously things went well.   
 JASON DAY: Yeah, came in on Monday and had Monday off; and then Tuesday, had nine holes on the back nine; and then Wednesday, I had nine holes on the front nine. I was just relaxing kind of Tuesday and Wednesday. But I got what I needed to get done. I spent a lot of time on the greens out there, and I think it helped a lot out there today.   
  
  Q. And you threw in your old putter, the mallet, right, that you won with in '07?  
 JASON DAY: Yes.  
  
  Q. And you also won with it at the Byron?  
 JASON DAY: Yes. Every now and then I kind of change my putters up just to kind of get a different feel, different look, and I just -- over the last couple weeks, I was tinkering around with my Ghost putter and it just didn't feel right in my hands so I changed back to the mallet and that felt much better, and I putted great today.   
  
  Q. You got your first win in Ohio here and you've got your wife here. How nice is it to come back to Ohio?  
 JASON DAY: I've got ties to Ohio, I'll tell you that much. It really is good. Obviously we live here, just two hours south of here, and it's good to have the family out this week and have a lot of fans out there kind of supporting me, which is nice. Obviously I've got good vibes up here in the Akron area, Cleveland area, and obviously my first win was at Stonewater. It's good to be back really.  
  
  Q. It's been a long time since the Nationwide Tour, but at the same time it seems like you feel pretty comfortable.   
 JASON DAY: Yeah, I've been feeling comfortable with myself out there. I haven't been hitting it as good over the last couple months, but I hit it great today and I'm feeling really good about my game right now.  
  
  Q. What's it going to take to get a win?  
 JASON DAY: Obviously there's a lot of golf to be played, but three more of these kind of days would be nice, but I don't know if that's going to happen. You know, I think the big issue is I've got to try and keep it on the short stuff out there. There's a lot of golf to be played, so I've just got to stay patient and just take the birdies when I can.  
  
  Q. You love the big stage, though?  
 JASON DAY: Yeah, I really enjoy playing against the best golfers in the world on the biggest stage, which is nice. I've always wanted to play on the big stage, and I'm finally here, which is nice. I just want to -- obviously I just want to keep the year going in the right direction. I don't want to go backwards.   
  
  Q. Jumping forward a little bit to the PGA next week, have you seen the course yet, played there?  
 JASON DAY: No, I haven't seen the course. I talked to Phil a little bit about it today. He said that the greens are quick, really quick actually, and it's very hot there. But I didn't really talk to him much. Obviously I'm going to get in there probably Monday and then try and get some good preparation, but right now I'm just trying to think about this win.   
  
  Q. Can you just for the record go into how you met Ellie and where specifically?  
 JASON DAY: I was 17, playing amateur tournaments, and my coach, Colin, who's on the bag now, he was helping out a friend try to start up a golf academy, and he was in Twinsburg, Ohio, and she worked at Mavis Winkle's Irish Pub, and I would go in there when I came through for like two weeks. And I went down there with Col one time, and we met -- she was 19; I was 17 at the time when we met. She was a waitress at that Irish pub.   
 Two years later, we started dating, and then we've been together ever since, which is nice.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT