HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 29, 2011
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Defending champ. You were not ready to give up that title easily, were you? What about that start? Tell me about that 4-under through 10 holes. 
 JASON DAY: Yeah, I was talking to Neil, my coach, and he said, obviously it's going to be windy out there so if we can shoot 5-under today, getting me to 3-under, I might have a good chance of winning the tournament. Off to a great start, bogeyed 11 and 12, and, yeah, just played good but I just -- I was a little disappointed. 

 Q. That hole at 14, when you got to 14 and saw your lie were you thinking to yourself, I've got to try and press here a little bit? 
 JASON DAY: Yeah, a little bit, because I knew it was going to be tough to make par, especially with how gusty the winds were. I said, okay, if I'm going to have a shot at it -- I had a wedge in my hand, and I came out soft and hit the tree, unfortunately, but a good, strong finish. 

 Q. Tell me about the bounce-back birdie at 15, because that shot you hit in, you were staring -- first let's go back a hole. How hard was it to get comfortable over a putt. I saw you at 13, and that wind was gusting so bad it backed you off three times, and even then with the downhill putt you looked like, you know what, I'm just going to hit it, I'm not going to be comfortable. 
 JASON DAY: Yeah, the thing is I was on 3 this morning and I backed off three times because the wind was blowing so hard, and it was a right to left putt and I blew it 4 inches over the cup. So you've got to pick when the gusts are coming, and, you know, obviously a good solid hit. 
 And obviously on 15, dangled it in the fairway in a divot, and I had a 6-iron in my hand and had to hit it out of the divot and then 2-putt. 

 Q. Great birdie at the 16th hole, coming in. What can these guys expect coming down the stretch from 14 on? Those holes are playin' into the wind and they're all going to play extremely difficult. 
 JASON DAY: Right, no, exactly. You have to hit the fairway on 14, the second shot is not as tough. The wind is off the left; you've got to hit it in the middle and then -- 16 you can make a birdie, 17 and 18, they're going to play very difficult, no doubt. 

 Q. Great play this weekend, great come-back today, 1-under par, don't leave yet. 
 JASON DAY: I'm not going to leave, we'll see how it goes because the back nine is going to play very, very tough for the leaders. 

 Q. Got a moving van ready and everything? I know you're not going to play next week, you're going to focus on the move? 
 JASON DAY: I am going to focus on the move, and we have to focus on Alley. She had some surgery done and hopefully she will be all right. 

 Q. Hang around here and then take care of wife next week. 
 JASON DAY: Right. 

 Q. How would you sum up your weekend? 
 JASON DAY: I think the good thing about this event is you can just make the cut, but you can have a chance of winning the event. This is one of those tournaments where you can just make the cut and still have a chance to win the event. Obviously it's tough on the back nine, especially with this wind and how hard it's blowing. But overall, the week has been up and down. I think I made 22 birdies. 
 If I didn't make those mental errors on the back nine I would probably be sitting here at 4-under but, hey, I played great today, and I'm not too disappointed. 

 Q. Can you look back at the week (No microphone.)
 JASON DAY: Well that's the thing, you can look back always and think about what you did, and that's the experience that you take into next year when you come back. You've got to play smart and get a good driver off the tee and expect to land it in a small part of the fairway to get it to the green, play it differently. 

 Q. What happened on 18? Did you just have a bad lie or did you have to punch it out? 
 JASON DAY: I hit -- actually the wind is coming in off the left and you've got to hit a cut over the -- unless you hit a hook into the wind but you've got to hit a cut over the water and it's tough to stand up there with especially how difficult everything is and hit a cut over the water. So I just said I would hit it down the middle and if it goes in the trees it goes in the trees. A little kid picked up my ball and dropped it, after all that stuff we replaced it. 
 I was trying to see which shot would be best. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 JASON DAY: Well, it's a good thing, because that extra thing you can have, Tiger used to have it, some other players. Someone would get the lead, and as soon as someone got a sniff of winning, they would go out and play well and the field would stumble a little bit. I'm just trying to go out and play well. I've had great finishes on Sunday. Obviously I didn't have too good of finishes last year, but I'm playing smarter out there, especially on Sunday. 
 My mind-set is you don't have to do much on Sunday, you just have to hang in there. 

 Q. If you had one shot you could replay? 
 JASON DAY: The second shot on 14, but I had to go for it. Sometimes when you think you've got a good shot, that can hurt you sometimes, because I felt like I could not get over the water there, and I could have, unfortunately, but overall very happy. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT