THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2011
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Can you just comment on your day out here? 
 JASON DAY: I played pretty solid tee to green. Missed a few little putts on the front nine for birdie, and that was actually pretty short, probably about five feet and in. So obviously had a few opportunities out there to capitalize on birdies and I didn't. So I just tried to tighten up the putting this afternoon and tried to shorten the swing a little bit and get into it tomorrow.

 Q. Considering you missed the cut last year, you must be satisfied to be up there on the leaderboard playing into the weekend. 
 JASON DAY: Yeah, I am. Obviously, David's at 10-under and I'm five back right now. But there are plenty of holes left. There are six holes and a lot of golf to be played right now. 
 Obviously very happy to be where I am right now.

 Q. How different was it to play in the morning? 
 JASON DAY: I think if the wind picks up like it's supposed to, it's going to play very tough. It's going to be hot and windy. So the scores -- it's like yesterday, the good scores are in the morning, and just the average scores are in the afternoon. So I think it may flip-flop, so we'll see how it goes.

 Q. Did you feel that yesterday, like I just need to hang on here? 
 JASON DAY: Yeah, it was more of a grind yesterday. I played great yesterday, but, yeah, it was more you had to focus in a little harder than I did today, yes.

 Q. What was working well for you this morning or today? 
 JASON DAY: I hit it great off the tee. I only hit two drives, two drivers off tees today, so there were a lot of 3-woods out there. I was hitting the 3-wood nice and long and very straight, which was good. I was hitting greens, but I wasn't hitting it close enough. The two shots that I did hit close, I missed the putt. So I just tried to stay patient, and that kind of works. I didn't play myself out of the tournament.

 Q. I know I asked you on 16 what you hit. Given the distance differences between a player like and you David Toms, how impressive is it that he's able to go out there and play as well as he has the first two days? 
 JASON DAY: Oh, yeah, he hits it very straight, hits it on the green, and holes a lot of putts. That's a good formula to have around here. 
 I've played with short hitters before, but I haven't played with a guy that hits it so straight and so solid all the time. I heard that, I think it was Azinger back in the day, that said David Toms is one of the best ball strikers he's ever come across. After the last two days, I believe that. He played wonderfully the last two days and he putted even better. 
 Like I said, there are a lot of holes left, but if he keeps playing the way he's playing, it's going to be tough to catch him.

 Q. Watching that, does that in any way subconsciously influence you as you're watching around here realizing that there's a guy that's shorter and straighter and even talking about some of the things that you were doing today? Does that influence you at all? 
 JASON DAY: Yeah, obviously my 3-wood normally goes probably around his drive or a little further. 
 So we were playing from similar distances. He doesn't hit it too short. He hits it fairly long for how straight he hits it. But obviously playing with Anthony and Anthony's game is totally different compared to mine and David's, so we had a good mix of playing there. So it did influence me to play a few smarter shots off the tee. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT