HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2011
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We would like to welcome Jason Day, our defending champion. Jason, thank you for spending a few minutes with us. Before we open it up for questions, let's look back at your win last year, how special that was to you.   
 JASON DAY: Twelve months ago, it was an amazing run from then till now. Obviously my game has changed a lot since then. I made it very interesting coming down the last hole, but I was fortunate when I hit it in the water and then Blake didn't know that I hit it in the water and he followed me in.   
 This was a platform to the next level for me. I've contended in a couple of majors now and I've grown on the course and off the course, which has been nice. It's been a really exciting last 12 months. My world ranking has been improving and I'm just -- hopefully I can defend this title. That would be nice.  
 THE MODERATOR: Finished second at the Masters, currently No. 25 in the FedExCup standings. Talk about your season up to this point.  
 JASON DAY: I got off to a pretty good start, but I struggled a little bit at the start. I started working with a mental coach. His name is Neil Smith, he's from Australia, he works with Hunter Mahan and a couple of other guys out here. I felt I needed more structure in my game. We're slowly improving that, which is nice, and obviously the Masters was the biggest highlight of the year, and a couple more top-10s. I've had five of those this year, and I've made a lot of money, which has been great.   
 I want to be known as a consistent winner on the PGA TOUR. I would like to win every year. That would be a good goal of mine, if I could win every year.   
 THE MODERATOR: Questions?   
  
  Q. Jason, where would you say your confidence level is now compared to a year ago?   
 JASON DAY: I feel like it's gone up another level. When I first came out, I don't think I was that confident. Even though I may have looked confident I didn't feel confident in myself that I could compete out here and win against these guys.   
 When I won this tournament last year, I knew that I could win out -- I know that I can win on the PGA TOUR now. And then I went on to competing in the PGA last year and finishing second at the Masters this year. But my confidence coming into this event is -- it's great. It's obviously high. I don't want to come -- sound too cocky, but I feel good about my game, where I am right now, mentally. Last year there was a little bit of a struggle trying to finish this tournament off but I feel great right now.   
  
  Q. What's changed in your game this year? The strength that makes you a top-10 veteran?   
 JASON DAY: I'm starting to feel more comfortable in my shoes out here. It took me a while. I've always done that, whether it's from junior golf to amateur golf, amateur golf to professional golf, it's always taken me a little more time to feel comfortable in my own shoes and in my surroundings.   
 It's my fourth year on the PGA Tour and I'm starting to feel more comfortable out here with the guys, and as you play and succeed a little more and win tournaments and play obviously a lot more top-10s, you gain confidence and you know that you're doing the right things. You're improving on the right things.   
 You know, it's been great. I've been working very, very hard in all aspects of my game this year.   
  
  Q. Jason, talk about the course today, obviously with the greens, the storms last night. How did you think they played?   
 JASON DAY: You know what? It's actually good that we have another day of obviously -- we got a lot of rain last night so the greens weren't too bad. We were delayed an hour for the Pro-Am, and it looks like 5,000 guys hit 5,000 balls into the greens, a bunch of plug marks but the greens are rolling pretty good after rain and hail. I'm guessing they're going to role 'em again this afternoon, see how they are in the morning and then cut 'em if they need to.   
 Obviously we're going to have some high temperatures over the next few days so that they dry out the course and get it rolling and bouncing pretty hard over the next few days.   
  
  Q. I was trying to think back last year, seemed like you had some medical issues last year.   
 JASON DAY: Yes.   
  
  Q. Are they all resolved?   
 JASON DAY: Yes, I had sinus problems last year and going up to that event I was on an IV for five days straight the week prior and they were pumping -- I can't remember the drug but they were pumping something into me that hurt a lot, and as the week went on I got better.   
 I was sick for eight months. So I had surgery done last October, October 14th last year, and it took me about a month to recover and I've been feeling great ever since, it's been really nice.   
  
  Q. How many times have you come back since the victory last year? Even though you live in the area are you taking advantage of staying at the Four Seasons by being the champion?   
 JASON DAY: I've come back once, for media day, and the grand stands were just about to go up and the course was great. It was in great condition. The greens were fantastic, the best I've seen 'em, obviously a month out.   
 But we had fun that media day, but I haven't come back and had a practice round or anything like that, haven't stayed at the Four Seasons either. Looking forward to this week, seeing how the course is going to be played, if I can stay out of the water on 18, it would be nice! (Laughter.)  
  
  Q. I wanted to ask you about -- I don't know if it's too early to think about the President's Cup?   
 JASON DAY: I've got it in my head now. All I need to do is think about the shot I need to hit next. I'm always thinking about it, if I can move up the world ranking I will have a shot at playing in the President's Cup right now.   
 All I can say is if I can play good now, it will take care of itself later, but it would be a great honor to play for the international side down in Australia. I haven't played a professional event as a professional down in Australia, ever.   
 I'm going to look forward to going down there and obviously try and get down and play some events as well and play the President's Cup would be nice.   
 THE MODERATOR: We appreciate your time, play well.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT