THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 15, 2011
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tell us about the 14th hole.   
 JASON DAY: Hit my driver down the middle, which was nice. The wind was in off the right and had 185 yards. I had 6-iron in my hand at the start and then I looked at Ryan's club and he had 5-iron. I went back to a 5-iron and hit this nice little hold-up against the wind and it came down really softly. I didn't actually see. I don't know if it one hopped in or just rolled in. I didn't even know it went in until everyone started yelling.  
  
  Q. There's only been one other on that hole here.   
 JASON DAY: Is that right? There you go. It's always good being the second one.  
  
  Q. Talk about those last few holes. You got through them and played them well before the wind. What do they bring to the tournament, 16, 17, 18?   
 JASON DAY: Yeah, you know, it's -- it's tough, if you want to go out there and try and win the tournament, it's probably the toughest stretch of holes that you can do it on. 16 if you get a good drive you can obviously get a shorter club in there, and that's a birdie opportunity. It'll feel like a bogey if you make par there.   
 17, it's such a dinky little hole. It's so small, and on any given day, it doesn't matter how hard the wind is blowing, if there's no one there, you'd get it on the green. But when there's, I don't know how many people, like 10,000 people around that hole, it makes it a lot tougher. Especially if you're playing to win, it makes it even tougher.   
 And then 18, especially with the wind where it is today, it's a tough driving hole. Some guys are going to be in between driver and 3-wood, so you just don't know. If they hit 3-wood they might have a longer club in, but if they hit driver they're going to have more of a nibble at getting to the green.   
 It's tough. It really is. Whoever wins today, they obviously have done a good job out there.  
  
  Q. Even when you were a couple back, 17 still kind of give you a little bit of --  
 JASON DAY: Yeah, the thing is that I just wanted it to cut a little bit more. It just held up against the wind. If it was a yard further right, it would have gone down the hill, and I would have had a good opportunity at making birdie. But I can't be disappointed with how I finished. Very happy.   
  
  Q. Not many places where you have such swings like these final holes.   
 JASON DAY: Oh, yeah, I was watching it on TV this morning, it seems like everyone was hitting it in the water, and that's just the pressure. It's THE PLAYERS, it's a big tournament, it's our fifth major, as we say, and it can swing either way. So you just don't know what happens.   
 Like today, as long as you keep yourself in it, don't make too many mistakes out there and just keep yourself around the lead, you just don't know what's going to happen down the last three holes.   
  
  Q. Nice stretch there, 13 and 14.   
 JASON DAY: Yeah, 14 owed me from this morning, too, I hooked it in the water. Yeah, I can't believe my back nine. It was great. The thing is that the one on 13, I thought it was going to stay up top and actually caught the ridge and went down. I got a little lucky there when it caught the ridge. Great shot, yeah, it was good.   
  
  Q. Like two, three inches from the hole?  
 JASON DAY: Yeah, it was about this far. I don't know how far that is. About six inches, I think.   
  
  Q. Another good finish in a big tournament. Obviously helps the way you feel about your game?  
 JASON DAY: Yeah, I feel good about my game right now. I think there's a few tweaks that I need to do for the next few weeks.   
  
  Q. Like what?  
 JASON DAY: Well, I just feel like I need to gain control over my distance with my shots. It feels like -- I feel like I'm swinging it okay. I feel like obviously the tempo is good, but right now I just can't feel where the club is on the backswing to actually hit the right distance. I think a little bit of that, the chipping and the putting is good right now and the driving is not too bad, as well. So just one little tweak would be good there for the next few weeks.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT