MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2011
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Jason, 64 at the Masters, your second-ever round here. Where do you rank this round in all the rounds you've played in this sport?  
 JASON DAY: Up there. You know, it's -- I shot a lot of low scores before, but this probably takes the cake of being the lowest and probably the best round I've played. I can't really remember what -- I can't really remember my round. You know, I was just trying to stay patient as can be, and if the putts fell, they fell, and I just tried to give myself opportunities out there today. You know, it just worked out great. Playing with Rory and Rickie helped a lot. They're around my age, and this is my first Masters, so I was just trying to kind of cool the nerves and just play good golf.   
  
  Q. How much did playing with Rickie and Rory, guys around your age, how much did that relax you over the last couple of days playing your first Masters?  
 JASON DAY: It helped a lot. You know, I'm the oldest in the group; I'm 23, Rickie is 22 and Rory is 21, which is amazing, and we all played really, really solid golf. You know, we were just out there just having fun, talking about just random stuff. We were talking about Florida, talking about jumping on Sea-Doos, jumping on a lot of stuff, and it was just a lot of fun. We had a good time out there, and I was very fortunate to hit it good and roll some putts in today.   
  
  Q. Your group collectively, 23-under, can you talk about just young golfers, young guns, if you will? The game of golf is in good hands with the youngsters?  
 JASON DAY: Yeah, I think the game of golf is in good hands. Obviously the next generation is just slowly but surely picking up with Rory and Rickie. Especially Rory; the way he's played the last two days has been amazing. Rickie is very close. Once he gets that win under his belt I know he's going to win a lot more. But where the game is at with Martin Kaymer being No. 1 in the world right now and he's only 26, the game of golf is looking forward to the future.   
  
  Q. It's supposed to take you at least a couple trips here to be able to shoot a score like that. How did you get a feel for the place so quickly?   
 JASON DAY: Um, I couldn't tell you. I really couldn't tell you because I went out there and I had a game plan at the start of the day, and I wanted to make sure that I gave myself a few more opportunities than I did yesterday. You know, the putter got hot a little bit out there today and I hit the ball great. You know, obviously I got a little bit lucky here and there, but you need that stuff to shoot 64. Obviously you're going to leave a few out there.   
 But no, you need experience around here, and I played with Rory yesterday that shot 65, and where he placed his ball compared to where I placed my ball Thursday, obviously I changed my game plan around a little bit going into Friday.  
  
  Q. Tiger is having a big back nine. What do you think of having him right on your tail?  
 JASON DAY: I'm not worried. There's too many things to worry about right now, so I'm just -- one thing that I'm going to do is just have fun. Tiger has won 71 tournaments with 14 majors. Obviously it's going to be hard when he's on his game. It's going to be hard to compete against him. But Rory is out there playing great, and I'm just going to go out there and try and stick to my plan, but if that works out and I can give myself opportunities and putt good, we'll see how it goes Sunday.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT