DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2010
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MARK STEVENS: Welcome back, Jason Day, another great round today. If you'd kindly take us through the highlights of your round and then we'll take some questions. 
 JASON DAY: I played great today. I felt like I drove the ball pretty well. I cannot remember what my fairways in regulation were and my greens in regulation were, but I felt like I drove it well and hit a lot of greens out there, which was nice.
 My goal today was just to try and not make a mistake, and unfortunately I made a hiccup on 16, but overall very happy to be where I am right now. 

 Q. Have you ever had someone steal your thunder on the last hole when he made a par and you made a birdie? 
 JASON DAY: Not like that, no. It's the first time. Thinking in my head, I was thinking that he was going to just get up-and-down and make bogey, and I was going to make an eagle or birdie the hole. That would have gave me a nice little cushion going into tomorrow. 
 But Brandt is a competitor, and he stuck it out until the end and made a really good par save there. I'm going to look forward to tomorrow. It's going to be really, really enjoyable.

 Q. And to follow on that, just talk about the back-and-forth nature of that match today. 
 JASON DAY: Yeah, it's just, Brandt got off to a good start at 1, and then we both got off to a really good start, and he kind of kept quiet until like 16 and 17 and got off to a roll there. And coming into the last hole, unfortunately he hit it in the water but made a great par save. I just tried to stay as patient as possible and tried to give myself as many chances for birdie out there. 
 No, overall I'm very happy with how I played.

 Q. Having been on Sunday the last couple of weeks and then even going back to the Byron Nelson when you won but you were kind of kicking yourself because of how you finished, what have you learned that you think you're going to carry into tomorrow about finishing on Sunday? 
 JASON DAY: I think the biggest thing for me tomorrow is to commit to the shot that needs to be hit and not standing up there and second-guessing myself and not committing to a shot because the moment I do that, the moment the ball starts to go a little wide, especially with the driver. 
 I need to try and give myself as much birdie chances out there as possible. I think that's the key tomorrow. It's going to be gusty tomorrow, and patience is probably going to be the biggest key, as well.

 Q. Continuing on that theme, is there anything specifically you learned in the final round last week at Barclays that you can take into this one?
 JASON DAY: The last week I actually didn't -- the last two days I didn't drive the ball well at all. I made a few swing changes earlier this week and I'm driving it a little better. But I was very proud of myself that I stuck it out and shot even par even though that's not the greatest score on a Sunday to win a tournament. But I was there, I hung around, which was nice. 
 And I think the biggest thing tomorrow is just to keep hanging around, hanging around and try and make them chase me tomorrow would be nice. 

 Q. How tough will it be not to look over your shoulder tomorrow, especially when you've got the defending champ there who hasn't made a bogey all week? 
 JASON DAY: Strick hasn't made a bogey all week? Oh, wow, that's really good. (Laughter.)
 What is he at right now? 

 Q. He's at 13. 
 JASON DAY: 13-under, oh, wow, okay. Steve can go out there and shoot any number that he wants to. He's just that good of a player. You just have to look at the leaderboard, there's a bunch of really good players out there, and Strick, he's won here last year and he can get it going low.
 I just have to kind of look away from the leaderboards and just keep giving it 100 percent and just keep playing my game. I think if I don't worry about that, then I'll be all right. 

 Q. You talked about being committed to the shot on Sunday. What about your emotions? I remember following you on Sunday at the PGA when you looked like you got pretty emotional out there because you weren't playing the way you wanted to. Is that another part of it?
 JASON DAY: Yeah, I think I've got to try and stay as level as possible tomorrow, and if I get too high and too low, that's kind of two extremes, and I'll probably pick a shot that shouldn't be hit if I don't stay level tomorrow. That's one of my goals. 

 Q. You said yesterday you felt good last week, but you were really tired this week, especially yesterday. How did you feel today? 
 JASON DAY: I had a really good rest last night back at the bus. Ellie, my wife, cooked me a really good dinner, which was good, and I got a lot of rest last night and this morning. I felt really good out there. I kind of got that little pop back in my swing, which was nice. I hit a lot of good quality shots, especially with my 3-wood and my driving clubs, which was nice.

 Q. How many hours of sleep do you think you got?
 JASON DAY: Ellie, how many hours do you reckon? Nine or ten. Yeah, I passed out last night. It was good. 

 Q. I understand on Wednesday you had a big one-club challenge match against Blake Adams with a 7-iron and you made a 4 on 18. If you were leading by a few going into the last hole tomorrow, would you consider playing the hole with a 7-iron?
 JASON DAY: Right. I know that I can get to the 18th with a 7-iron, three shots up there, and I'm going to say if I have the lead tomorrow I'm going to try and play as smart as possible down the 18th. I'm probably not going to hit a 7-iron all the way down there, but I'll probably play it safe. 

 Q. Just how close is the RV parked to the course? And were you worried during the potential hurricane? 
 JASON DAY: You know, we're just parked just around the corner, and we're actually covered in with some trees, which is nice. So we really didn't feel it as much as probably some of the other areas. But most of the time the RV is pretty much parked on site, which is nice, and then I wake up and do my stretching in my bus and I'm over here in 20 minutes eating some breakfast or lunch and I go and warm up, which is really nice. It's always convenient to have your bus so close. 
 MARK STEVENS: Good luck tomorrow, Jason. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT