THE BARCLAYS
August 28, 2010
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Had a tough day but you're probably right where you need to be going into tomorrow, I think?
 JASON DAY: Yeah. I'd like to be a little higher, a little closer to Martin going into tomorrow but that just shows I need to work little harder, fewer errors out there today. I'm just very positive that I stayed in there, stayed patient and came out with 1-under. It probably could have been worse but I tried to grind it out as much as I possibly could.

 Q. You and Martin on the Nationwide Tour, how well do you know him?
 JASON DAY: I know him a fair bit. We've obviously played a fair amount on Nationwide and on the PGA TOUR but it should be a good test of golf tomorrow.

 Q. Do you feel comfortable playing for the lead on the PGA Tour?
 JASON DAY: It's starting to feel comfortable. I felt great out there. The swing felt really good and I just kept it going left. And I just tried to keep going, kept to my pretty short routine, do exactly the same as before. Didn't try to fight it at all and they just kept it going left. Starting to feel a lot more comfortable out there.

 Q. What's the biggest thing for you to get it done tomorrow?
 JASON DAY: Hit more fairways. Hit more fairways. Just hit more fairways, I'll be able to set myself up better at making birdies. And hitting in the rough a lot, it's harder to make birdies out of the rough than on the fairways.

 Q. How much does it help having been in this position before and getting the job done, how much does that help calm the nerves going into tomorrow?
 JASON DAY: I just want to try and go out there and just -- I want to try and go out there and have fun. If it happens so that I go out there and win, that's great. If not, then, hey, there's always another week that I can go out there and try and win. 
 I'm going to go out there tomorrow and just try and feel as relaxed as possible and just try and give myself as many opportunities as possible.

 Q. Is it hard to not get too carried away with thinking ahead when you see the ball going left and it happens more than once?
 JASON DAY: You start to -- normally when that happens, there's other couple of things that can happen. You can keep doing exactly what you're doing or fight it and hit a few right and hit a few left and just fight it all day.
 And I tried really hard to try and get on it the fairway, and there were some that were just off the fairway, great drives and some were just really bad drives. So I'm going to try and go straighten some of that out on the driving range later on tonight.

 Q. I know how you're going to answer this but how did winning the Nelson this year change you as a person?
 JASON DAY: I'm a lot more positive with my golf game. Winning that and then obviously finishing top 10 at the PGA really helped my confidence; just knowing that I can compete on the top level against the big guys is a good feeling inside. Just to know how hard you've worked this year. 
 So it's been a good, long journey from when I was 11 until now. And just happy to be where I am today.

 Q. Third year now, PGA?
 JASON DAY: Third year.

 Q. Does it take time to sort of feel that comfort level out here?
 JASON DAY: It normally takes -- for me, personally, on every level, like junior, amateur, professional, normally takes me a little bit to feel comfortable in my skin out here. 
 And I think the more times I try and put myself in the opportunity to win, the quicker it's going to -- the quicker I'm going to feel much more comfortable in my skin.

 Q. What did you feel was the most challenging about the course?
 JASON DAY: The greens actually started getting really firm. And they're drying out a lot. They look a little brown out there. And tomorrow's going to be a really hot day tomorrow, and the ball's going to be bouncing a lot.
 So that's probably the big thing tomorrow. That's why I've got to hit some fairways.

 Q. You had a couple of good bounces on 16 and 17. Did you start to think divine intervention was sort of on your side for a little while there?
 JASON DAY: To hit a chair (ph) is pretty lucky. And that drive on 17 was going well left and as soon as I hit that, I knew that I was going to be dropping back here. And then I was just hoping I got a good kick and I just got lucky. And sometimes you get lucky and sometimes you don't. And I'm just actually pretty lucky to finish at 9-under. I nearly made a good birdie on 17, but I made a really good birdie on 14 there. So hopefully tomorrow I can go out there, hit some more fairways. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT