DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2010
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOHN BUSH: Jason Day joins us here in the interview room at the Deutsche Bank Championship after an 8-under-par 63. Jason, just a continuation of excellent play over the last month or so and the season really. Comment on your day.   
 JASON DAY: It was -- I felt very comfortable out there with my swing. I worked on my putting in the first couple of days that I got here, and I just tried to square my putting up a little bit, and that worked out great. Just felt really comfortable out there with my swing and with my short game, and that kind of -- everything kind of clicked, and then obviously with Zach and Ryan playing well, we kind of fed off each other, which was good. I think we shot 23-under all together, which was a really deep score for a group of three.  
 JOHN BUSH: You're making your third start here at the Deutsche Bank, finished top 20 last year. With you currently being No. 14 in the FedExCup standings, you've got to be chomping at the bit a little bit about what could happen this week.   
 JASON DAY: Yeah, I'm not too sure -- I haven't looked at the projection obviously if I come through with a win here, but it just all depends on how Matt Kuchar goes. I think if I can finish well here, that will vault me up to somewhere in the top 5, which would be nice. As long as I can keep playing smart and being patient out there, I think I can keep playing well, and hopefully I can keep it moving forward and get ready for the next two.   
 JOHN BUSH: Still a Red Sox fan?   
 JASON DAY: Unfortunately, no. (Laughter.) Sorry, guys.  
 JOHN BUSH: You used to be a Red Sox fan.   
 JASON DAY: Yeah, used to be a massive Red Sox fan and Patriots fan.  
  
  Q. What have you gone to?  
 JASON DAY: You won't like it. I've gone to the Cleveland Browns, Indians and the Cavs, and that's because of that young lady at the back.   
  
  Q. You talked about feeding off Ryan and Zach playing well, but what about coming from last week, just a continuation of -- can you carry sort of one week's good play over to the next?  
 JASON DAY: Yes. A lot of that week fed off from the PGA finishing tied 10th and being in contention there. You know, I played well -- it wasn't probably the finish I'd like to have, but kept going into that week with no preparation. I'm more than happy to finish tied 5th.   
 Obviously with that said, you know, coming into this event, I felt very confident in my swing, with my swing, and I just had to work on a few things with my short game, and just I feel a lot more comfortable out there on the putting greens lately.   
  
  Q. To follow up on that, do you just kind of put this day behind you or try to bring today into tomorrow?   
 JASON DAY: I'm going to try and put this day behind me. Obviously there's a lot of deep scores out there. There's a lot of guys around 8-under. It was out there today. It just depends on how the weather is. Hopefully this thing can kind of blow through and not hit us too hard. But I'll probably try and put this round behind me and just focus on the next round and one shot at a time out there.   
  
  Q. Given the weather, how prevalent is that in your mind as you go out, and how important did you feel like let's get this round in the books so you can be safe and dry in the barn here?  
 JASON DAY: The biggest thing was that the tournament, they prepared for this weather coming in. So we had lift, clean and place. The tees were up. The greens were very receptive out there today, so you could -- they were only bouncing like a few yards on the greens. It was playing pretty short out there today, and I knew that we would get in our first round because we were going to finish pretty early. Obviously we just got in, and I knew that I had to shoot a good score because we weren't going to get any better conditions out there.   
 Obviously the next couple days are going to be pretty tough, so it was good to get into the clubhouse at 8-under.   
  
  Q. Have you ever been in a situation where guys were on a roll like your group was today making birdies?  
 JASON DAY: No, this is the first time. I don't know if it was like a record or anything, but we all played very, very well. Zach, I don't think he had any bogeys. I know that Ryan had one. I had a couple. But Zach just didn't miss a putt. The guy hit it on the green and he'd just hole it.  
 ZACH JOHNSON: Aw, go on.  
 JASON DAY: You did. You even said -- I just had to keep up with Zach. It was really good.   
  
  Q. Speaking of which, how extraordinary was it to watch him birdie those string of holes, and did that fire you up, as well? Did that kind of get you going a little bit?  
 JASON DAY: Yeah, we all got off to a pretty solid start. We all birdied the first hole, which was our 10th, and then Zach went ahead and birdied a couple, and then -- it was either one of us birdieing, and then the course is just set up so good today that you could go out and do that.   
 I don't know, it was really weird, like everyone was just playing well. We were enjoying ourselves, and a couple of us shot 8-under, one shot 7-under.   
  
  Q. Did you know it was going to be ball in hand?   
 JASON DAY: No, no.  
  
  Q. Were you surprised?   
 JASON DAY: Thinking about it, I'm not too surprised, especially with the weather coming in. Actually the tournament is very -- it's smart to do that because obviously with some of the rain that's going to come in, it's going to soften the course up and we're going to get a lot of mud balls out there, and it's very smart on their behalf.  
  
  Q. Where would you compare your confidence level now as compared to coming out of Dallas?   
 JASON DAY: It's a lot -- I'm a lot more confident in my game now than I was before Dallas, but I just don't want to try and be overconfident. I want to try and still play smart golf and work on the right things. I'm just happy, very happy where my game is right now. There's a few little things I'd like to improve, like my driving. I'm driving it everywhere right now. I had a better driving day today obviously, which was nice. But there's a few things that I'd like to improve, and I'm going to certainly try and do that in the off-season.  
  
  Q. Can you just describe that birdie on your last hole? I guess it kind of helped you grab a share of the lead.   
 JASON DAY: Yeah, I kind of pulled my drive, and it was just on the fairway, and that left me 130 yards. You know, it was just a perfect 48 wedge, and hit it to about ten feet under the hole. Today all day the goal was to over-read the putts and make sure I give myself more room because lately I've just been under-reading them and I've been missing low side, so my goal was to try and miss everything, if I did miss them, on the high side. You know, it worked out great today, and I holed a lot of good putts.   
  
  Q. Looks like obviously you were talking about you guys feeding off of each other. It looked like you were having fun out there. Were you having fun because you were playing well or were you playing well because you were having fun?  
 JASON DAY: I think it was a little bit of both. I try and have as much fun as possible when I'm out there because it puts me in a good mood, and you can't play golf cranky. It's a little hard to do that.   
 But two guys that were with me today, they're a bunch of fun, and I've known those guys for a few years now, and they're just a good bunch of guys to just have fun out there. It was just a really good, fun day.  
 JOHN BUSH: We won't get you to go through the whole card, but take us through the birdie on No. 3, the par-3.   
 JASON DAY: Yeah, I hit a 6-iron. I would say it was about 190 yards to the pin, back right, and I hit a 6-iron to five feet above the hole and holed that one.  
 JOHN BUSH: Great playing today. Thanks for coming in.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT