THE BARCLAYS
August 27, 2010
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Jason Day. Nice tidy 67 to match yesterday's score and put yourself right at the top of the leaderboard tell us how today went.  
 JASON DAY: Today was pretty much just like yesterday. I got off to just a little bit of a slow start and really had nothing going for me. I was just plugging along and made one letters mental error and made a bogey on one of the easiest holes out there.  
 But I just tried to stay as patient as possible, and it just kind of fell in my lap which was really good. So overall I'm very happy with how I played.   
  
  Q. How did it start turning around for you, was there a turning point?  
 JASON DAY: Not really. Just tried to hit -- obviously I hit it pretty good today. The last two days was -- I hit the ball, I drove the ball well, and I hit my second and third shots into the greens as well. I was just trying to hit the greens, get myself opportunities.  
 And obviously I had three birdies on the trot which was nice which put me on top of the leaderboard which was nice.   
  
  Q. You were here three years ago if my math was right. You were 21 when you were here last time?  
 JASON DAY: Yes.  
  
  Q. Was that experience? Anything special for you playing Ridgewood, playing a golf course like this I know you've played other golf courses.   
 JASON DAY: I felt a lot more comfortable. Obviously playing it the second time around than I did the first time. In the last round I played with Sergio, and he really didn't do much to get in that playoff.   
 And I just remembered that he was just plugging along and all of a sudden we finished 18 and he was in a playoff. I shot 3 over I think that day. I learned a lot from that round that he played.  
 And the biggest key was just to stay patient and just not worry about any -- don't worry about the scores on the leaderboard. Just go out there and play some golf. That's pretty much it.  
  
  Q. I don't know how much watching of the leaderboard you do, but we were you surprised to see Tiger tumble off it?  
 JASON DAY: I saw him out there. He was 8-under. I saw him out there I knew he was playing well. He must have been playing well and putting good. He finished 4-under if that's correct. No, I was very surprised, because he's Tiger Woods. 36 holes, there's a lot of golf to go. And I'm just going to try and give it 100 percent out there.  
  
  Q. Did you find the course drying out a little bit as play continued throughout the afternoon and how does that affect your play? I know some players out earlier were concerned that the clean and place had been removed for this round.   
 JASON DAY: Obviously I feel for the early players, because you come out and it's a little -- it's still a little wet. And there was a few mud balls out there for the earlier guys, which I can understand.   
 But over the afternoon, the wind was picking up just a little bit and then it kind of died off. It dried out a lot. And I was very surprised how much it dried out over the last couple of days.   
 So obviously come Sunday it's going to be a lot firmer on the greens, especially. So the course is probably going to play a little shorter. But the greens are going to obviously be a big part. You've got to obviously hit those greens.  
  
  Q. The greens will be a what?   
 JASON DAY: A little firmer.   
  
  Q. How is your health?  
 JASON DAY: Health is okay. I'm starting to feel a lot better. Over the a last -- I jumped off, went and saw the ENT. He said I don't have to have surgery. He goes you might have Mono instead of -- I've seen like eight doctors. Can't get a straight answer.   
 But, yeah, so apparently he goes I think you've got Mono. So I tested positive two out of the four panels for Mono. So I don't know if that determines that I have like a minute case of Mono. But we'll see. I've been feeling pretty good. I jumped off the antibiotics finally after about three and a half months of that course. And then everything is turning around, which is nice.  
  
  Q. So you have Mono or you don't?  
 JASON DAY: I don't know. I couldn't tell you. I don't think he could have told me. So it's still up in the air. What's going to happen is that I'm most likely going to have to miss the HSBC and Australian Masters and Australian tournaments just due to I need to rest and try and get on top of this health thing, because I can't keep playing the way it has been.  
  
  Q. You don't know if you have -- you might have lyme disease, you just don't know?  
 JASON DAY: I don't know. I really don't know. I've talked to my agent. He wants me to see someone this Monday but it's very unlikely that I'm going to go and see someone. So I'm going to wait until after the FedEx and try and get this sorted.  
  
  Q. How does it manifest itself? Do you lose energy or anything?  
 JASON DAY: Yeah, well, most of the guys that have been with me the whole year have known that I'll get really tired, real weak and shaky out on the course. And I just really can't do much at all.   
 Normally I'll be going to the gym twice a week when I'm playing. And then I'll be going to maybe five, six times during my off week. And just really I couldn't do any practice last week, and I just came and not prepared at all for this tournament.   
 I'm just really kind of excited that I'm on top of the leaderboard right now with really poor preparation coming to the event.  
  
  Q. Is that pretty much how you handled it, just rest, just inactivity?  
 JASON DAY: Yeah, pretty much. Just when I'm at home I just do nothing. I can't really do anything. I just sleep a lot and that's about it. My wife takes care of me, which is good. So she's a good wife.  
  
  Q. When would you say you started feeling better?  
 JASON DAY: I started feeling better last week, actually, during -- once I got off the meds actually I started getting better. And I just don't know.   
 I'm feeling a lot more energized, which is nice. It's been good.  
  
  Q. Making the bogey did it disappoint you so?  
 JASON DAY: 15. The par 3, the really short one. It was like a little chip-9 iron there and I pulled it and it was a bad shot. But I hit a really good -- really nice chip down to the pin about four feet away and didn't even look -- didn't even look like it was going to go in the hole when I hit the putt, it was just so bad.   
 And I think I was focusing on, there was a bug on the hole and I was looking at the bug and then it flew off and I had to hit a putt and I missed it. I should have backed off. But anyways, that's just another thing that I have to write in my journal, back off when a bug flies in your line.  
  
  Q. I know during at Whistling Straits you were having days where you were getting giddy out there. How did the Sunday at Whistling Straits affect you? You obviously were in the running there right up to the ninth hole. Had a bad hole there. How did it affect you sort of mentally and were you physically up for that challenge?  
 JASON DAY: I wouldn't say that I was physically up for the challenge. Mentally I had to focus twice as hard that Sunday. And I played -- I think I played 14 great holes and had four bad holes.   
 It was a good experience to play with Martin that day. But I felt a little giddy during the middle of my round then. But other than that, it was just -- I just hit a really bad shot on 9 and that kind of cost me the PGA.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you for coming in.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT