PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2010
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How does it feel and were you expecting this? 
 JASON DAY: I'd be lying if I said I expected it. I started to play a lot better the second half of this year, especially after the win. I feel like my game is, you know, moving in the right direction. I'm working be on the right things I think and I did a lot of good things out there today. I had a couple of mental errors but overall very happy. 
 Like I said before, I'm not surprised -- the course is playing very long out there, and a couple of the guys in my group today hit 3-woods into a few holes, and the wind is just really tough, it's really gusty and I'm just glad it's blowing in the right direction. So helped out a lot going downwind.
 You can tell it's a major but play it as a normal tournament. You don't really want to change the way you think or the way you think or the way you do your routine. You want to keep it as simple as possible and do everything the same. 

 Q. Is it tougher out there as the day goes on; is it drying out? 
 JASON DAY: It was very wet out there. Some fairways were actually running, but, you know, other than that, no. You'd hit it in some spots and they t would just be plugging. 

 Q. Long day for you? 
 JASON DAY: Yeah, four o'clock this morning. I'm staying about half an hour away. It was a long day. I'm very happy with the way it went, though. So I'll take 69 every day. 
 Just try and do the exact same thing -- you know, I just want to do the same things, keep the same routine, keep the same game plan and if the putts end up dropping, they drop. As long as I try to give myself opportunities out there to make some birdies and play some smart golf, I think I'll hopefully be up there on the leaderboard come Sunday. 

 Q. How were you feeling --
JASON DAY: A little shaky out there today. I ate maybe six or seven Cliff bars out there today and I drank maybe ten bottles of water. I would go maybe every couple of holes and get a little shaky again, I felt light-headed out there but I try to not make that an excuse. I want to focus on playing well. Even though it's a little frustrating out there, I guess that's the way it is. 

 Q. Does your late father still inspire you? 
 JASON DAY: Yes. 

 Q. I know you lost him --
 JASON DAY: I'm very thankful and to be playing the PGA and to be playing on the PGA TOUR; if it wasn't for him, I wouldn't be here, and I guess that's why I work so hard and I try and go out there and win each and every week. You know, I'm very thankful and very grateful to be where I am today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT