JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 9, 2010
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. So you're going to play in your first major championship. 
 JASON DAY: Yeah, it's very exciting, especially at the home of golf. You know, I'm pumped for it. I can't wait to get over there.

 Q. But it's a challenge for you to get over there. Tell me what's going on with your passport, your wife's passport, your caddie's passport. 
 JASON DAY: Yeah, well, my wife, Ellie, she didn't change her name over, so she's trying to change the name over on the passport, and then I left my passport at home so I had a friend break into the house and get the passport. 
 And then Cole's visa -- once I got married, I got a green card. Then his visa, he piggybacked my visa, so that cancelled his visa, so it's all sorts of mischief going on, which is -- it happens.

 Q. Was there any collusion here, because you got in because Greg Norman pulled out. 
 JASON DAY: You know what, maybe -- I'm hoping that he pulled out for me. But obviously he may have had something come up. All of us thought that I was going to get in. There's just a lot of players; something has got to go wrong. But I'm happy.

 Q. You've got to be jumping out of your skin obviously. 
 JASON DAY: Yeah, I am. My first major championship, I'm obviously pumped for it. 

 Q. How did you play when you tried to qualify for the British Open?
 JASON DAY: I didn't qualify.

 Q. You didn't try?
 JASON DAY: No, I didn't try.

 Q. How come?
 JASON DAY: I just don't like qualifying. I've never liked it in the past. But I was a little sick, as well. I had something going on with a sinus infection. I played -- it was the week of Colonial, I think --

 Q. Right after. 
 JASON DAY: Yeah, the day after I won, so I was kind of still sick, and then I had just won, so I just wanted to kind of relax a little bit. 

 Q. Coming here this week, you didn't know you were --
 JASON DAY: No, no. I found out earlier in the week I was first alternate. Two guys ahead of me got in, and then that took me to first alternate. There was no chance in hell I was going to miss a chance to go over there and at least have a practice round or at least have a look at the first being first alternate. If I got in, that would have been great, but if I didn't, I wouldn't have cared that much. At least I got a chance to play at St. Andrews. But I was just hoping that I got in.

 Q. It didn't cross your mind to bring your passport?
 JASON DAY: No, well, I've got an American license and I've got a green card now, so that's all I carry around now, which is better than carrying a passport. But I should be more prepared and carry a passport next time.

 Q. It's nice that you don't have to worry about transportation issues out here. 
 JASON DAY: Yeah. No, it's just great that the John Deere puts up a charter to fly over there. It makes it easier for the guys. That's why a lot of the guys come and play the John Deere, I think, because it's just such an easy flight over there.

 Q. What is your relationship with Greg Norman?
 JASON DAY: I've known Greg since I was about 15. We talk here and there, exchange emails off and on. He's just been a real good guy to me, and he's been a very big support. I haven't talked to him lately, but I hope everything is okay. I hope that nothing has gone wrong that he couldn't play in the Open. 

 Q. You've been out here a lot of years not to start in a major. 
 JASON DAY: Yeah, my World Ranking hasn't been good enough, and I just haven't qualified. I just wanted to try and establish myself here, and I just wanted to be rock solid on the TOUR and just -- you know, just be comfortable in my surroundings before I actually jumped into a major, and I wanted to make sure that I was 100 percent ready mentally and physically before I ever played a major. 
 I feel like -- obviously not physically because of my sinus infection, but mentally I feel like I'm kind of ready to play in a major.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT