THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 24, 2018
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Jason, thoughts on today?
JASON DAY: 18 was a bit of a struggle.  Obviously pulled it left and had to hit a left-handed shot, but you know, to double-bogey that was just poor.  I played that 3-over, so hopefully I can change that over the next two days.
I feel pretty good.  Driver, just decided to hit it a little bit harder and that kind of worked itself out.  Nice to be able to finish with two birdies.  Look forward to the weekend.
Q. 11 of these FedExCups, there's been seven years where a guy has won two tournaments in the Playoffs.  Why do you think those Playoffs lend themselves to streaky play?
JASON DAY: Well, they are kind of similar golf courses to a certain degree.  I mean, Boston, we've been playing Boston for a long time now and it's obviously sad to see that go next year, but very old school kind of golf courses, especially in the New York area.  So we are kind of used to what we get.  We usually go New York, New Jersey, straight to Boston, then to Chicago.  So they are very similar with how they actually play.  It doesn't change.
The only thing that does change is Atlanta with the grass.  I don't know.  I think it's because guys get off to a good start.  If they win one on the first, they usually gain a lot of confidence from that knowing that they are into the TOUR Championship and it relaxes them, and vice versa the other way, too.  If you start off a little poorly and then come on strong, kind of like Billy Horschel did going back a few years, that certainly can change a lot of things, but a win definitely settles the nerves a lot in the Playoffs.
Q. You've played well here before.
JASON DAY: I have, yeah.
Q. Is there any familiarity with the golf course, or is it so much different that you barely recognize it?
JASON DAY: It's very similar to what I had played in the past.  I remember it sticking and then over the weekend, starting to get a little bit firmer.  It's one of these golf courses where just, you know, just suits my eye, which is nice.
I think if I can put a couple of good rounds over the weekend together, I can give myself a good shot at winning.
Q. Is it confidence or annoyance, the middle -- or confidence you take into tomorrow?
JASON DAY: Confidence, only because I finished strong.  Started off strong, finished strong.  Just one little hiccup in the middle of the round, which is understandable.  You can't be perfect all the time, even though I'd like to think I am.
Definitely am looking forward to the weekend because at the start of the week, I didn't really have a lot of confidence with the way I was hitting it, and proximity-wise coming into the greens, definitely tightened up today.  If I can keep rolling the rock, you know, hopefully I will put myself into the lead.
Q. Phil was just joking a minute ago that he's just behind you with putting, that he's either going to have a really good finish and finish first or he's going to bend the shaft on your putter.
JASON DAY: Yeah, so I think -- no, I don't need to look for him.  I can get another one.  He's right behind me.  I know he's trying to get it.
Being first in strokes gained putting and first in strokes gained around the green, scrambling -- I'm trying to stay on top right now.  So today was a good step in the right direction because I was negative yesterday, and I don't really see that too often.
So if I can have a good finish and just keep it going, then I'm definitely eyeing it, though, because I don't want him to win.
Q. What do you attribute that to?
JASON DAY: Putting?  I was just saying this the other day.  I spend anywhere from ten to 15 hours a week on putting.  A lot of people think that's -- you can't do that; that's too much, too many hours.  It takes me 30 minutes to do technical work.  It takes me another hour and a half to do my performance work.  If you do that long enough -- and it's only just on putting, when I'm trying to putt.  Sometimes I go back out after I'm done practicing and I've just got nothing else to do because I have a facility at my house.
So when you have a short game facility at your house, then you can kind of -- when you've got spare time, you just go out and practice because you're bored; so I may as well just put my work into my short game.
Q. How do you keep that from getting boring?  Everybody likes to hit it long?
JASON DAY: Well, I'm good at it.  Usually when you're good at it usually want to do it more.  Not all the time I'm good at it, but one thing that I have grown up to do is scramble my butt off.  I haven't always hit it long and straight, and you know, hit a lot of greens.  I've always been one of those guys that's kind of scrapped it around the course and I needed my short game to save my scores or get myself into the lead somehow.
That's just a way that I've always been really scrappy like that.
Q. Are you good with them only going to three Playoff events next year?
JASON DAY: I like it.  I like to play two weeks in a row usually.  So if we go to three, that's fine.  You've just got to play well, quickly.
With that being said, I know that, I think like everyone says, you've just got to get yourself in the top five but that's just one tournament.  If you can get off to a good start over the first two tournaments, propels you into THE TOUR Champs, I think there's going to be a lot more change next year than what we've had.
You know, clearly, if you're up there close to the lead of the FedExCup, you don't see much change in that top 30.  There may be a few guys coming in and out but there's going to be a lot more change next year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT