AT&T NATIONAL
July 3, 2010
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Just a couple comments on the day out there, a tough day.   
 JASON DAY: Yeah, it was a tough day. I just put myself on the wrong side of the hole, and it was pretty tough to be in that position out there. You know, I just -- I played well the front nine but just kind of lost it on the back nine. I missed a few putts that I'd normally make, and my momentum was gone, and I just wasn't holing the putts that I needed to make.  
  
  Q. Justin is playing awfully well, isn't he?  
 JASON DAY: Yeah, he's playing very well. His game to my game today, I was leaving myself downhill putts and over-hill putts, he was leaving himself uphill putts, so he was making it very easy on himself. He was hitting the ball very straight and hitting the ball on the greens, which was nice, and he's putting and chipping very well. He's going to be tough to beat if he plays like this tomorrow.   
 Hopefully I can go work on some stuff on the range and practice my chipping and putting and try and get back in the tournament tomorrow.  
  
  Q. You said you weren't happy with your driving yesterday. Was it a little better today?  
 JASON DAY: It was a little better today. I wasn't so far off the map. But I was only missing fairways by three or four yards. It wasn't too bad.   
 But once again, I just didn't set myself up with real opportunities out there. The pins were tough. There weren't many guys that were going low today. But it was just an overall tough day, and playing with Rosey, who hit it so consistently on the green, leaving himself uphill putts, it was frustrating to watch because I'd leave myself really hard ones.  
 I'm a little angry with myself, but I can't be disappointed. I'm still young and I'm still learning. Although I've won, I'm still trying to learn and see how to handle myself out there.  
  
  Q. The second shot on 16, how was the lie in the rough?  
 JASON DAY: The lie was pretty good. I had 206 with about ten yards of wind into my face off the left. Again, I hit a really good 4-iron and it was set up great, and that's probably one of the few shots that -- that's a shot I needed to hit, and I did it.   
  
  Q. When you're struggling with your game a little bit, would you rather play with a guy like Rose who is playing well or would you rather play with a guy who is also struggling?  
 JASON DAY: No, I'd rather play with someone that's playing well. Obviously their momentum can kind of sometimes -- if you hole a putt, you start feeding off each other, which is probably the best thing. You don't want to play with someone that's playing awful, as well. Yeah, I'd much better play with a player that's playing well.  
  
  Q. Anything particularly striking about him this week? Does he look like a different player after getting that win a few weeks ago?  
 JASON DAY: Yeah, well, I think he just knows how to do it now. Obviously he had a little bit of a stumble last week, but I think you're going to have those weeks. But the more times you put yourself in conditions like this, the more times he's going to win. I don't know how long he's been out here. He's been out here for a while now. But he's going to be a very strong player to beat in the coming years.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT