AT&T NATIONAL
July 2, 2010
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   NELSON SILVERIO: Jason Day, thanks for spending a few minutes with us here at the AT&T National media center. We talked about it a little bit outside, but why don't you give us some thoughts on your round.   
 JASON DAY: You know, obviously 68 is a great score today. I hit it pretty awful on the back nine. I only hit five fairways and had 27 putts from what I hear.   
 I'm just trying to think, because I really can't think of like my round right now because I was just -- for some reason when you get into -- it's like, kind of like the zone. If you get into that you can't really remember shots. But I'm glad that I put myself in this position and I'm just glad that my putting and my chipping saved my round out there today.   
 It's going to be tough if I have to do this for the next two days and I miss fairways. It's going to be really, really tough to shoot the scores that I have the last couple of days.   
  
  Q. Can you compare this course to others on TOUR? Do you think it's one of the more difficult ones you've played this year?  
 JASON DAY: You just look at the scores, Mate. It's really difficult. You've got the best player in the world playing, and he's currently 3-over par. It's really, really tough out there. The fairways are firming up and the greens are really firm out there. I was allowing 10 to 15 yards of bounce and roll. It's just so hard because if you hit it in the rough then the only thing you can do is aim for the front of the green and run it up the middle and two-putt across. They've got the pins in some really, really tough spots, and you've just got to hit the ball straight around here and try and give yourself as many chances as possible, and hopefully at the end of the day just play very smart and be patient, show a lot of discipline out there and not go at too many hard pins.   
  
  Q. Despite missing all those fairways, you, I think, only had one bogey. Did you get some good lies in the rough, or was your short game getting you out of trouble?  
 JASON DAY: Short game was getting me out of trouble. I had some pretty awful lies out there. I just tried to muscle them as hard as I could to the green. My putting has been the biggest thing over the last couple of months. I've been putting really, really well. It's just my chipping is improving, as well.  
 I think if I can put the two together like my short game and my long game -- my long game was really good at the start of the year but now it seems like it's flip-flopped; the short game is good but the long game is kind of lacking. I'm going to try to work on a few things on the range this afternoon and try to straighten it out.  
  
  Q. Is it something you think you can sort out?  
 JASON DAY: I think so. You know, I feel like I need to be a little bit more aggressive through the ball. I feel like I'm kind of steering, just kind of guiding the club through impact, and I'm hitting a lot of left -- I hit it left to right today. You hit one left and then the next hole you hit it right, and you're just fighting yourself all day. It's really tough. If it's just going one way then you can just kind of play with it. But I'm just going to try and work something out on the range, and hopefully we'll get it by tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the No. 1 player in the world being 3-over? Number one, is that surprising to you? And number two, is the intimidation factor that we've been writing about or talking about for years with Tiger, is that diminished this season in your mind?   
 JASON DAY: Obviously Tiger has been going through a lot of personal issues this year, and it's just real -- obviously anyone that goes through that, and he's the most watched sportsman in the world, and any guy that goes through that, it must feel like everything is crashing on top of him right now. And to play golf on top of that and have the expectations of pretty much the whole of America, the whole of the world on top of his shoulders, it's tough to play. I get stressed out if I'm five minutes late to my tee time; you know what I mean? It kind of throws me out of whack. So I don't know what he's feeling. He's gone through some hard times, and I'm sure he's going to work it out. He's going to go back to being the same old Tiger Woods as you've seen in the past. He'll get back to where he is, though, I guarantee it.   
 Once he gets through all this stuff -- the intimidation factor, it's only there when you -- it's obviously still there. Once he starts winning again, it's going to be very easy to get that back.   
 NELSON SILVERIO: Thanks, Jason.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT