PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2018
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Good enough?
JASON DAY: Not too bad.  How to explain it?  It was just kind of -- it was just one of those days that I got around in 3 under, which was nice.  Nothing really exciting going on.  I think the back side -- the back nine wasn't playing tough or anything, but I don't think a lot of guys were shooting very deep scores on the back nine for some reason.
Once again, it's crucial to get your ball on the fairway.  If you don't get it on the fairway, it's just ridiculously hard to get it close to the pin.  With how soft the greens are, if the greens are just what we have today, there could be someone that could just absolutely get out of the gates and run away with it if they're absolutely flushing it tomorrow, but it's going to be a good final round tomorrow.
Q. Do you think you might have saved your best golf for tomorrow?
JASON DAY: I hope so.
Q. And how have you rated the past three days from you?
JASON DAY: It's been okay.  I hit -- I haven't got -- it felt like a grind, to be honest.  Like I'm just grinding my way up the leaderboard.  That's the way it's been.  It hasn't felt easy even though it -- you know, sometimes it looks easy out there, but hopefully it comes easy for me tomorrow.  Hopefully, I get in the zone, and it just becomes automatic, and I go out there and just play golf and not worry about any technical issues or not worry about fans or where the lead is or anything like that.  So that's the main goal, if I can get into that zone.
Q. There were two 63s.  Do you think the expectation is that it can go low?
JASON DAY: No, not the case.  I mean, you definitely -- when you're playing the second round in the afternoon and you see Brooks and Charl shoot 63 and then a bunch of other guys shoot 7 or 8 under, you're sitting there going, I think I need to attack this golf course.  It's kind of hard.  You've got to make that right step first, and if you can get it on the fairway and give yourself opportunities, then you can attack it and be aggressive that way.  So you've got to pick your spots when and where you can.  The par 5s are crucial to birdie.
But once again, it's a Major championship.  I think everyone is probably thinking about 15, 20 under is going to win this tournament.  It wasn't -- I don't think -- unless someone's going to run away with it tomorrow, I don't think that's the case.  It's still a Major championship.  There's a lot of people here in St. Louis.  They've brought out a lot of fans here this week.  When you get that mixed in with tomorrow and the final round, numbers flying back and forth and guys playing well and guys playing bad, it's going to be an exciting one.
Q. You went meh, sort of a benign reaction.  Is that what I'm getting from you in terms of the way you played today?
JASON DAY: Yeah, that's about right.  It was okay.  I just didn't do anything overly great.  I chipped in -- I hit a great bunker shot on 13 and holed out for birdie there.  Birdied 1, birdied 3, and birdied the par 5 -- so it wasn't like -- it wasn't -- you know, I just got it around and did what I needed to do.  That's a good thing, though, because, if I can go around a golf course like this in a Major championship and feel like that, then once I switch on and start playing well and everything becomes automatic, then hopefully, it comes easier, and I make a lot of birdies.
Q. You can play meh golf and you can still be three or four strokes out of the lead?
JASON DAY: That's the lead.  You're not going to have your best stuff, so you just have to always keep pushing along and grinding.
Q. You know what it takes to win a PGA Championship.  Where do you feel this particular tournament will be won and lost?
JASON DAY: Where?  On the golf course?
Q. How and where.
JASON DAY: I think it starts tonight being able to hydrate.  If the guys that came this morning and played a certain amount of holes, they definitely need the recovery because it's going to be difficult to recover fully from what we did today, but hydration and food is important, making sure you go at it.  Once it gets hot and you start thinking about the heat and how hot it is, then you start making mental errors.  So it's very important to recover.
You know, the back nine is going to be crucial tomorrow, and I say that like kind of bluntly, but coming down the stretch, I think 16 and 17 are probably going to be some good holes to watch tomorrow.
Q. Do you feel like you've got a 64, 65 in you, and do you feel like there's one out there?
JASON DAY: Yes, there is definitely a 64, 65 out there for sure.
Q. Do you feel like there's one in you?
JASON DAY: There's one in me?  Definitely, I think there is.  I definitely think I can do that.  I know I can do that.  It's about just getting myself in the right opportunity.  I haven't putted overly great.  I haven't really hit irons that great.  I haven't really driven it that great.  I don't think I have.  I've just kind of been average.  So hopefully, things fall my way tomorrow, shoot 64 and kind of run away with it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT