THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 4, 2009
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Probably not the finish you wanted, but, boy, being up seven at one point, what a round. 
 JASON DAY: I know. I'm playing great. The front hole was great. I hit a lot of shots close and missed a few birdie putts out there, but they were all pretty good. 
 Little bit of a disappointment last two holes. But these greens are really, really quick, you know. They're really fast. You've got to make sure you put yourself in the right position, or you're going to miss the green. 

 Q. Seems like there's scoring to be had. Even in the afternoon where people thought the scores would be higher, you're still coming in with pretty low. 
 JASON DAY: I think me and Reinier were just feeding off each other and making birdies. There's actually some good scores coming in. It's always out there. It's a really, really tough field. There's always going to be low scores coming in no matter what. 

 Q. From your top five finish last week, do you feel like you're carrying momentum over from last week? 
 JASON DAY: I feel like I'm carrying a little bit of momentum over from last week. I felt great. I carried a little bit of confidence out there. I just gave it 100% today on every shot and worked out well. Just going to go out there and give it my all tomorrow and the next few days. See how it goes. 

 Q. You talked about the greens are playing fast. A lot of the golfers credited that to their low scores. Would you credit that as well? 
 JASON DAY: No. I hit a lot of great iron shots today. Hit a lot of fairways and hit a lot of iron shots. Put myself in the right position today for the putts. If you leave yourself above the hole, it can be a bit tough. You're playing defense putting instead of offense putting. 
 But putted great down there today. 

 Q. Jason, when Luke goes out and posts a first round record so far. How do you keep the focus after the scores he had posted? Boy, that's a lot of birdies I've got to hit. 
 JASON DAY: The biggest thing for me is to try to go out there and play my own game. He shot a great score. Who knows what's going to happen over the next few days? Anything can happen? We'll just wait and see. 
 But out there, I just went out and played my own game. Kept in the moment and played shot for shot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT