AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 12, 2009
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MARK STEVENS: We'd like to welcome Jason Day to the interview room. Jason shot a -5 today. If you'll just start off and give some general comments about your round and then we'll take some questions. 
 JASON DAY: I played well today. The conditions were really good out there. You know, just a five- to ten-mile-an-hour breeze. But the greens were in great shape. I hit the ball really good, gave myself a lot of chances out there and actually made no bogeys, which was great, and capitalized on the putts I needed to make. I actually had three out of four par-5s I birdied, which was actually pretty good for me, so I'm very happy about that. I played well. 

 Q. Was it 6, 7, 8, three birdies in a row?
 JASON DAY: I think it was 5 -- I have no idea. I can't remember the round out there. Yeah, 6, 7, 8 it was, like par-5, par-3, par-4, just had a good stretch of putts there, which was good. I actually hit a lot of good solid shots there and capitalized on those putts.

 Q. Any shots stand out to you from the round?
 JASON DAY: Not really. There was one shot on 8 from 203 yards. I hit a 5-iron just on the right-hand side of the pin and holed like a 20-foot putt there, but that was about it. I just played really solid golf. Got up-and-down in some tough spots, short-sided myself about three times out there and got up-and-down, which was great. The greens are wet enough that you can actually short-side yourself and still get up-and-down.

 Q. Are you happy with your play thus far this year?
 JASON DAY: Yes, I'm very happy. My first event was last week, and my first and third round were great, second and fourth round just a little bit sketchy but just trying to get the rust off and get back into tournament play. I worked pretty hard over the off-season in the gym and practicing, as well, and I'm very happy with where I am right now. 
 You know, there's three more days left and a lot of golf to be played, but two other courses that I need to play, and just going to take it a day at a time and try and keep pressing forward.

 Q. What's your favorite of the courses you play here? 
 JASON DAY: I like Spy. You know, the three golf courses we play are great. I like Spyglass, but you've got to love Pebble, just the scenery is amazing.

 Q. You played well here last year as I recall. 
 JASON DAY: Uh-huh.

 Q. Talk about that. Is it your game, a good match-up out there?
 JASON DAY: I don't know, I played well. Last year the conditions were great. I just kind of got my 2-, 3-under a day and just kind of kept on moving up the leaderboard. I got really close to the lead at one point. Last year I just tried to get it in because I was struggling with my shots, and I was putting and chipping really good. 
 But this year, you know, the courses are great. They're in great shape, and apparently Friday and Saturday the rains are going to come in and it's going to be pretty hard conditions, so I'm just glad I got Pebble out of the way and I've got the other two courses to play now. 

 Q. Any sense of urgency knowing that the forecast is bad?
 JASON DAY: Well, everyone is going to play in the rain because the courses are so close, but I've just got to go out there and just try and keep pressing forward. That's all I can do, just go out there and try and hole some putts and hit good shots. At the end of the week if I've done enough, then I've done enough. 
 MARK STEVENS: Thank you, Jason. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT