PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY BANCO POPULAR
March 14, 2009
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   NELSON SILVERIO: I'd like to welcome Jason Day to the Media Center. Jason is at 12-under through the third round and is currently tied for the third round lead at the Puerto Rico Open. If you'd just start off, give us some general comments about your round and your thoughts going into tomorrow.   
 JASON DAY: I played really good today. The front nine was great. I gave myself opportunities out there, and you know, came away 3-under through nine and just a couple hiccups coming through the Back 9 of my round.   
 The 17th was a poor decision off the tee. I should have taken a 3-iron instead of a 3-wood, and I tried to be a little more aggressive, and instead I hit it right in the water and ended up hanging across so I couldn't come out with a birdie there. I played great. I rolled it today, and in that wind was great. So I'm very happy with it.  
 NELSON SILVERIO: Okay. Questions?   
  
  Q. I saw your shot on the fourth, it went way out there on the left on the second shot. You made a good save there. I saw that was kind of a high shot or something, misjudged on the selection shot?  
 JASON DAY: Yeah. I just kind of -- 200 yards into the pin there. And about 15 yards from the right, and I got it just a little bit too close to the pin. I'm just taking my medicine and hanging it out to the right a little bit, and I've had cross by not catching it as good as I could through impact, and I just rode that and it went way left.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible question).  
 JASON DAY: Yes.  
  
  Q. You were talking about the 17th. You made a number of really great saves for par today. Can you talk about your putting a bit?  
 JASON DAY: Yeah. My putting saved me so much today. You know, I holed two deep balls on the front nine for birdie and par, and just here on the Back 9 it just saved me a lot.   
 I hit a lot of chip shots to 10, 12 feet and holed them, so I was very happy with the speed. My putts were great, and the lines that I was reading was really good, too. So I had that going for me, which was great.   
 So I just need to hit a few more greens tomorrow and just try and do that with the putts.  
  
  Q. I understand this is your second time you're going to play with Bradley. He just mentioned that. When you were a rookie you once matched with him, and he said he thought you had a good future, so probably looking forward to seeing him again tomorrow.   
 JASON DAY: Yeah. It's going to be fun. I played with Michael in Q-School the start of this year, just end of last year, and he's a great guy. We're really going to enjoy it there tomorrow. So it's going to be a good show tomorrow.   
 So we'll see how it goes, but I really, really like Michael, and I know his caddy, so we're going to enjoy it.   
  
  Q. It could have been the ninth hole, I'm not sure, but where your drive went off a little into the rough right by the water. You were behind a tree. What were you hitting when you hit that shot?  
 JASON DAY: I had 155 into the pin, and the wind was more across but a little bit into us off the right, and I just hit like -- the tree was in my right on the follow-through, so I just tried to kind of cut -- not cut one, but like try and -- it was more of an abbreviated follow-through, and I hit like a little shag iron into it, so it turned out pretty good.  
  
  Q. Your three first rounds is all you've played so far this year. All of them have been under, even though they've been 66, 68 and 70.   
 JASON DAY: Yeah. It's been great. I've put a lot of good quality shots together.   
 I've taken my medicine here and there, and I just gotta make sure tomorrow that I do the exact same as I've done the last three days.   
 I don't want to try and be too aggressive out there. I just want to play my game and take it one shot at a time, but I've certainly played well to be in the position I am today.   
  
  Q. The crowds and a lot of people following you all over. They already know you're the leader, and walking with you. How do you feel about it, playing here in Puerto Rico with all the cheering and everything?  
 JASON DAY: It's great. Actually, the biggest cheerer I have is my girl friend, Ellie, sitting in the crowd there. She's always yelling at me and stuff, which is great. I really enjoy the support. It's just been great.   
 The Puerto Rican people have been great. They've come out and supported this tournament, which is awesome, and that's what we need. We need a lot of fans to come out and enjoy the golf tournament, and hopefully tomorrow there's going to be a lot more. But it's been really fun to play in front of you guys, and hopefully I can finish off the job tomorrow.   
 NELSON SILVERIO: Any other questions? Okay. Thank you, Jason, good luck tomorrow.   
 JASON DAY: Thanks, guys.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT