BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 7, 2018
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Jason, clean card.  Enter the weekend -9.  I would assume mission accomplished out here today.  
JASON DAY: First time ever that I actually hit 18 greens, which was nice.  So, when you're not chipping much or hitting shots out of the bunkers or green sides, which I'm normally doing, it definitely makes it a little bit tougher.   
But today was a nice, clean card, as you said, and you're getting to 9-under is nice.  Good to get in and have a good round under the belt and go into the weekend.   
 Q.  Don't know how soft it will be depending on what happens.  Obviously the greens didn't have any bouncing with little bit of rain we got overnight last night.  
 What do you expect from this golf course for the weekend and in terms of what we might expect and how it evolved from yesterday?   
JASON DAY: The course is going to play a lot longer not only with obviously the moisture but also the temperature is going to cool down a lot.  I think it's 67 tomorrow and 64 on Sunday.   
So the ball is not going to fly as far even though we are at a little bit of elevation here.  Still going to go considerably shorter than what we had the last two days.   
So, in that regard, I mean the fairways, you're going to be able to hit more fairways, hit longer clubs into the greens.  If you miss the fairways it will be difficult to hit it out of the rough because it's wet.  Guys that drive it well over the weekend gives himself the opportunities on the greens is probably going to be really close on Sunday.  Obviously this course is starting to get longer now, obviously, with what we're going to have.   
 Q.  Drive it long and putt well.  Sounds like someone I'm talking to right now.  What gives you the most confidence going into the weekend from today?  
JASON DAY: Yeah.  I just think the game is flowing nicely.  Even though when I was out of position I got myself back on the green and gave myself the opportunity to make a birdie or make a solid par and move on to the next hole.  Just trying to play smart and hopefully that rolls over into the weekend.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT