THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 25, 2018
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So you're close enough, if you can go low tomorrow.  
JASON DAY: I have to shoot low tomorrow, yes.  But if Jordan and Keegan can come out and shoot a low one on Saturday, I'm pretty sure -- it's starting to get a little firm.  It's going to be firmer to be obviously but I don't think you have to go -- what am I, 8?  Yeah, I'm going to have to shoot a low one.  I'm going to have to go out there and play well.   
Sundays definitely tighten up over the day and late in the round, they definitely start to do this -- so if I can get out there and try and post something early, see how it goes.   
 Q.  Go out and be somewhat aggressive, post a number?  
JASON DAY: I'm trying.  The hardest thing is when you're trying to be aggressive -- you know, I didn't drive it as bad as it says on my stats.  I think when the greens start getting firm, playing out of the rough, it's just really difficult to get any sort of spin and stop it near the pin.  Putting from 25, 30 feet is really difficult to hole everything.  When you're shooting something low like 62 or 65 or 64 or whatever it is, you've got to do a little bit of both.  You've got to drive it well, hit a lot of close iron shots but when you don't, you've got to putt well, as well.  I need everything clicking for me tomorrow to give myself a good shot.   
 Q.  And the playoff aspect of this run means every shot counts no matter where you finish.  
JASON DAY: Yes.   
 Q.  You'll be trying to keep that high up in the ranking?  
JASON DAY: Yeah, and that's the thing, you know, you're kind of far enough away because I think 14-under is leading, so I'm seven shots back.  You're far enough away to not think about the lead, but you're close enough to go, okay, well, I need to still focus and finish this thing through, rather than if you're around the lead and you're trying to win, you know, you'll take a few more risks than what you take in my position to a certain degree.   
So I definitely need to play a little bit more aggressive tomorrow, but you know, hopefully everything fires tomorrow and I can shoot a low one.   
 Q.  What would you say your biggest inspiration is tomorrow to try and win?  
JASON DAY: You know, I'm just trying to get to No. 13 to be honest.  I've got 12, so I'm just trying to get to the next one, and if I can somehow just get my -- even if I don't do it, get myself good confidence going into Boston, because I'd much rather finish strong than start out early and kind of soften out.   
If I can peak myself right and finish strong over the last couple, that would be really nice.   
 Q.  Almost thinking about your career in general instead of just the Playoffs?  
JASON DAY: Yeah, and that's the biggest thing.  I'm just trying to focus on the next number, but I'm just like, when you do focus on things like that, then it kind of takes away some of the pressure of competing in the present, you know, and what goes around and who is moving where with the points and where you are currently.   
So with the quadruple points, guys move up-and-down very, very rapidly during the Playoffs, so you've always got to make sure you don't give up till the last putt's in and try and do the best job you can.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT