THE 147TH OPEN
July 22, 2018
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JASON DAY: Yeah, it was nice.  It was starting to get a little breezy out there too, which should make it a little tough for the guys.  Yeah, it's playing tough.  It's going to be interesting to see if the wind holds up.  I think it's going to possibly die down later on in the day.  I think the guys tee off pretty late.  So they should get kind of early on in their rounds then maybe taper down a little bit.
But you just don't know around a place like this.  It could pick up and stay there.  I was trying to -- once I got it to, I think once I got to 3, I was trying to birdie the last three holes.  It would be nice to get in at 6.  You just never know from there.  You're only three shots back.
Unfortunately, I bogeyed the last hole and didn't get the other birdies, but pretty happy with the way I played.
Q. What do you take away from this?  You've obviously got the PGA coming up.
JASON DAY: It's pretty disappointing to not give myself a shot at even getting into contention, but a lot of positives today.  It was good to be out and beat this course, which is nice.  A week off, I think is good, and I've got to go and try and get back and just -- not tinker a little bit, but just kind of a little bit of maintenance before the WGC because playing over here, you get too far into your left side and you start hitting really low shots.  I'm going back to American style golf, so I need to get it back in the air and get my game back in order before the PGA.
I know it's going to be hot there.  The ball is going to go absolutely a mile.  Different style of play.  So looking forward to that.
Q. Are you hungry to win another major?
JASON DAY: If the second major that I win is the PGA, that would be great.  I just want to win.  That's all I want to do.  I'm positive about the way that I finished out today, going forward to the WGC, the PGA, and obviously the playoffs after that.
Q. I was just going to ask about the other Australians.  I know you probably haven't had a chance to talk about them.  But the fact that Adam Scott is scoring quite well, is that a good thing?
JASON DAY: His style of play actually kind of suits this.  Even though he's played in the states for a while, he hits the ball relatively low, especially with his driver and his longer stuff.  But he has a lot of control over them, which is nice.  So it's not surprising to see him do well at a golf course like this.
But I haven't seen how he's going today.  So hopefully --
Q. He just hit a double on 14.
JASON DAY: That's the thing.  It's easy to do that around a golf course like this.  I had a double yesterday come out of the blue and a three-putt double.  Hopefully, he can fight his way back because I don't think you need to do anything too crazy.  Just if you hit something under par and you're around probably 4 to 6-under, I think that might have a go just depending on how the guys play.
Right now, I'm looking at the TV screen, and it's 28 miles an hour, which is a hefty wind out there.
Q. What about the young guys, two debutantes here doing really well, in the top 50?
JASON DAY: Yeah.  That's the thing.  It's your first major, practically, especially over here in The Open Championship.  It's a difficult golf course, before you even get to the golf course and see how it's playing.  So for them to come in and -- I guess it's just great because they're not scared, and that's kind of what we need for Australian golf is guys like that coming up through the ranks and playing some good golf and showing that we have tremendous golfers Down Under.  Hopefully, those guys can keep kicking it on, and hopefully I'll see them on the PGA TOUR soon.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT