TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 23, 2018
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Jason Day, you shot 4-under today and 14 fairways.  You had a streak of three birdies and four holes there in the middle of your round.  How do you overall assess your round?
JASON DAY: It was good.  I mean, a couple of bogeys there were a little weak on 3 and 11.  1 was a bogey, got a wedge in hand and unfortunately flared it right of that putt.  Any surface of that bunker where you hit on the fly, it's going to plug, and it's just really hard to try to get up-and-down to that pin location.  So that was a little disappointing.
For the most part, actually (inaudible) I'm pleased with how I hit it from tee to green.  Wish I could have tidied it up at 14 and 18 a little bit with putts.  But for the most part, I'm going to chase down Paul who is playing tremendous golf right now.
Q. Yeah, give us a little insight and your mindset at 10-under moving into the final round?
JASON DAY: Yeah, so this course can yield some birdies, which is quite nice.  Get through tomorrow in a couple under on the front side, and then try to let things go a little bit on the back side if you can.  If you're rolling pretty well, you can get something really deep on the back side, and try to put a little bit of pressure on him.  But I think he's currently 15-under.
So it would need something pretty special tomorrow to try and catch him, because he looks like he's firing on all cylinders right now.
Q. You've had some great success sort of chasing down leaders on a Sunday.  What does it take to chase a guy down tomorrow?
JASON DAY: I'm happy the way I'm playing right now.  I played well today from tee to green.  I could have tidied up a few more putts on the greens.  But for the most part, I feel good about my game.  Short game's nice.  Tomorrow it all depends on how Paul plays.
I know that -- I'm not quite sure how many wins he's had.  I know that he's in the past hasn't quite got over the line with some of the wins that he possibly could have won, and that's kind of positive in my mind knowing that.
But you look down the leaderboard, you look at the guys in second all the way through to me, and even guys behind me, there's a bunch of great players that can take it low.  The back side tomorrow is going to be key.  If you can get something going on the back side pretty much from 11 on, if you can get from 11 to 18, 3- or 4-under par, and you've got a couple on the front side, then you should give yourself a pretty good shot at it.
Q. How would you rate your growth on this course over the last years, missing the cut last year to now being in contention?
JASON DAY: Yeah, it's always a course that I've enjoyed, thoroughly enjoyed playing.  I know that if I come into an event like this when I have things a little bit sharp, sharper than last year, I know that I can get myself in contention.  It's nice to be able to get myself somewhere around the lead on Sunday, tomorrow.  So hoping that he doesn't get too far ahead, but he's playing some really nice golf right now.
Just get some rest tonight, and all the pressure's on Paul tomorrow.  I've just got to go out there and just try to keep the blinders on and focus on the holes and the shots at hand.  Hopefully add them up at the end of the day, and it's 1-shot better.
Q. Two years ago you ranked first in (inaudible) you were also first this year.  Do you think you're a better putter than you were two years ago?
JASON DAY: No, I'm not a better putter than two years ago.  I'd like to say I was, but unfortunately --  I mean, I shouldn't say that.  From inside, probably from inside 10 feet I'm maybe a little bit better.  But from 15 to 30 feet, I just holed everything.  It's quite nice to be able to get on and know.
To be honest, every time I got on the green, it didn't matter if it was 60 feet, 70 feet or three feet, I just knew I was going to hole the putt.  I just knew it.  And everything fell in, which was nice.
Slowly getting back to that point.  Today was just a little -- it was there.  Yesterday was much better than today, but hopefully they'll all fall in tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT