THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
May 31, 2018
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (No Microphone.)
JASON DAY: Yeah, it is.  I think that the guys are 7-under or something like that.  6-under.  It's nice.  Got off to a nice start today.  The back side is usually, it's the tougher side, obviously, and I think that there's less opportunities, I would say.  The par-5s are a little tougher to take advantage of.  You're going to make most of kind of your nice scores and your birdies on the front side.  So you've got to take advantage of that.  Tomorrow's going to be, hopefully we'll skip the weather tomorrow, but try and get through tomorrow and the back side, which is our front side tomorrow, starting off 10.  So I can get through 1- or 2-under and try and attack the front side again.
Q. Can you describe what the fever was like?
JASON DAY: Well it was just like a normal fever.  Probably more of a man-cold, to be honest.  But I feel like I'm dying every time I'm sick, so my wife just looks at me and laughs at me.  So I did have a fever, started getting a fever.  I actually came out here and played 18 holes Sunday.  I had a fever Sunday, Monday, and then kind of started getting over it Tuesday.  But I lost 10 pounds in two days.  So I went from 206 to 196.  And that change, with the heat today, I came out and I was kind of a little bit shaky because you're just not used to that quick weight change and you're out here trying to concentrate and get things going.  So that was more of the toughest part of my round today, was just trying to get past that and trying to mentally just keep pushing forward.
Q. Was your fever, what was it?
JASON DAY: It was like 99, like low 100, so it wasn't like 102 death bed kind of stuff, but, yeah, I mean to me I had a really bad sore throat, so that's why I couldn't eat anything because I just didn't have the appetite to eat anything because it just hurt to put anything down the throat.  So that didn't sound good, but, anyway, sorry.  Yeah, I don't know where to go from there, so.
Q. (No Microphone.)
JASON DAY: Yeah, I mean obviously I don't know how to say, Joaquin?  I'm way off.  He's played some tremendous golf that over the starts that he's had on the PGA TOUR, so he's obviously full of confidence.  I sawing Hideki holed out 17.  So there's, the scores were out there today.  Obviously the golf course is very receptive on the fairways and the greens.  And the greens are rolling pretty nice and true.  So with that said, I've just got to just chip away at it.  I can't just kind of full press.  I would like to full press it, but you've got to respect this course, because it can come back and bite you.
Q. Have you seen Joaquin hit a shot?
JASON DAY: No, I think I walked past him one time and it was at one of the majors, it might have been Augusta, and I mean it's just it looks like, they look like pups.  They're just so young now these days.  I'm getting old, and, yeah, these guys just, I was just saying the other day, these guys are just coming out with a boatload of confidence.  They can, they're not scared to shoot low numbers, and they're not scared to play against the best players in the world.  Obviously it's a breath of fresh air when you look at guys like that, because you've just got to kind of stay ahead of that curve, because these guys are coming out with all the confidence and the power and you've just got to keep working hard to try and stay ahead.
Q. (No Microphone.)
JASON DAY: The front side, you have to take advantage of.  And then the back side you just try and get one or two.  You don't really push too much.  So if you can just get under par for the week on the back side, maybe 2, 3, 4 and really attack the front side, then you should be close around that lead by Sunday.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT