MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2018
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How important was that back nine after the front nine?
JASON DAY: Yeah, it was good. I didn't get ‑‑ 3‑putting 16 kind of hurt a little bit, but obviously standing up there and thinking I can get it back to ‑‑ what was I at the moment? I was at 2‑over‑‑ get it back to 1 and get a good drive away on 17 because it's accessible there. 18's a little tough for birdie. But I was thinking I could get back it even par and that would be a good start after what I had done on the front side. So it's just a little disappointing to 3‑putt that and then struggle to make par on 17. But it is the first round and I've got to do something ‑‑ I got to give myself more opportunities, I can't keep leaving myself where I'm at and only birdieing two holes and making a lot of bogeys, that's just no good.

Q. You talk about accessible pins though and you have to be conservative probably within reason at this place, how many accessible pins were there today?
JASON DAY: Well all the par‑5s are gettable, so you got four birdies there, if you can get good drives away. Then there's a couple mixed in there. So if you can get ‑‑ there's probably anywhere between six and eight chances of making actual birdies and then the rest you are just trying to play a little bit more conservative. And the front side is, I think, a little bit tougher than the back and just got off to the wrong start today.

Q. You've not really started that well at the Masters, but always seemed to grind it back towards the end. So what have you learned about your game after 18 holes of the Masters this year?
JASON DAY: I need to start a little bit better. Yeah, like I said, it's just disappointing because I think I did the exact same thing last year and it's been like that for the last few years, I get off to a good start and I'm usually around the lead by the end of Sunday, so I got a lot of work to do over the next three days.

Q. What's going to be key to you turning it around and getting yourself back up the leaderboard?
JASON DAY: The short game wasn't that great today, so it was just, if I can just tidy that up a little bit, give myself an opportunity ‑‑ leave myself in the right position. I'm just short siding myself and leaving myself in terrible positions. So, yeah, no, I got to keep fighting, I got to keep pushing and pushing and pushing. Right now ‑‑ you never know what happens until Sunday‑‑ but right now I just got to keep pushing and seeing, just try and claw myself back into the tournament.

Q. You were behind Sergio on 15 when he kept hitting it in the water. What is it like watching that as a competitor?
JASON DAY: Well, Bubba came up and told me that he is going for his 10th shot or something like that and to be honest I wasn't really concerned with what Sergio was doing as much as like I'm trying to get myself back in the tournament. But it's unfortunate and disappointing to see him do that. I'm not sure if he was just having a moment where he just kind of a lapse in concentration, just kept on hitting the same shot, by then you're just sitting there hoping that the wind switches and starts to go down, because the wind was light and variable today, so it was enough just to kind of get under your skin to the point where if it changed, you're changing clubs and I was just happy to get a 6‑iron in my hand and hit a good shot there after seeing that.

Q. How many golf balls does a pro bring on around?
JASON DAY: Anywhere between six and nine, I would say. Anywhere between six and nine. 

Q. So he was getting close?
JASON DAY: Yeah, he was probably getting close there. But from there after that he probably had a few ‑‑ if he was giving them away then it was close, yeah. 

Q. How confident are you turning it around after today?
JASON DAY: I feel like I'm, like the game is there, I just got to give myself, just play smart, conservative stuff. Not go ultra conservative but be aggressive to my target. But just got to play golf. I mean it's pretty simple, I played very poorly on the front side and then turned it around and played great on the back side. I know it's in there, I just got to give myself the opportunities, I think. I drove it well today, and I pretty much, from 8 on, I drove it really nicely, gave myself the shots, I just didn't take them. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT