AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 10, 2018
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about your round today?
JASON DAY: Yeah, it was actually.  It was cold, the clubs weren't going as far as the last two days.  The wind, it was up quite a lot actually today.  I think it's going to be pretty similar to what we're going to have tomorrow, maybe a little less wind tomorrow.  But it was good to actually play the course the way it's going to be played tomorrow.  So we kind of know what's going to happen.
The greens are pure.  They're nice and firm, they're bouncing, they're rolling nicely too.  So I mean the green staff has done a phenomenal job, especially on all three courses.  But it was tough to shoot a good score out there and I'm just trying to chase the lead right now.  I think the lead is 15 so I'm three back going into tomorrow's round.
Q. You bring up the greens, you made 130 feet of putts today, big one on 8.  Just love the way you're seeing the line, everything feels good right now?
JASON DAY: Everything feels good.  I put half a degree more on my putter at the start of the week, on like Tuesday, I think, because --
Q. Is that a poa annua thing?
JASON DAY: Well, it's just -- with two and a half, I usually play with two and a half degrees and that's usually on fast greens.  I added a half degree of loft because I was just kind of hitting it into the ground first and bouncing it instead of getting that nice skid off the putter face and rolling it consistently.  And the speed's been pretty nice and the line was, lines were good today.  I putted really nicely at Monterey Peninsula yesterday, and the greens were just a tad bouncy.  But today I got it rolling nicely and obviously holing 130 feet is key, especially on a day like this.
Q. Anything you need to change tomorrow?  Already with the win under the belt this season, what do we need to do a bit better tomorrow to chase down this lead?
JASON DAY: Yeah, currently I don't know who is up there at the top of the leaderboard.  If it's D.J., then I got to play well.  But regardless who it is, whoever is up there is playing some tremendous golf, so I got to try and chase him down.  But try and be patient with myself tomorrow.  I think just get the opportunities -- I'm making a lot of birdies, which is nice, and that's good to see.  If I can just -- I made three bogeys today which was a little bit of a disappointment, especially on the easy holes.  11, I made one on the par-5 14th, and then 1.  So they were three scoring opportunities and I went the other way.  So if I can just tidy those up that will be great.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT