THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 1, 2017
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A lot of tough matches out there.  What was going right for you?  
JASON DAY: I drove it well, hit a lot of good iron shots and putted half decent.  It wasn't the greatest putting day but you know what, I think I made it a lot closer than I should have.  I won 2-1 but Charley hit in the hazard three times.  I hit in the hazard once, obviously on the par 5, but made par.   
Yeah, I actually struck it well today.  It was one of those days where you're just kind of wearing the guy out by hitting a lot of fairways, hitting on the greens and taking your birdies when you can and capitalizing on the opportunities that were given to me obviously.   
12 is a pivotal hole for me.  He dumped two in the water there and I hit a nice one just over the back of the green.  Forcing his hand to try and be a little bit more aggressive there paid off, which was good.   
 Q.  The U.S. had a big lead coming into Sunday.  What was sort of the focus for you guys coming in today?  
JASON DAY: I think everyone was kind of relaxed a little bit.  Obviously we know that there's been upsets but this was a pretty steep hill to climb to upset the Americans.  They are so talented, from the top all the way down to the bottom.  They have a lot of young players inside the top 30 and very, very can confident players.   
You look at all the young guys, they are coming off pretty much a spectacular year.  So that's always going to be tough to try and beat those guys.  Unfortunately we just didn't give them a good run this week.  Obviously we're currently still in it, but it's pretty much going to be sealing the deal -- I think Daniel Berger is 3-up with three or four to play.   
With that said, I wish it was closer, but obviously we just need to play better.  They out-classed us tee-to-green and even on the greens.  It was actually a fun week watching those guys.   
I made it closer than what it should have -- I played pretty good.  I drove it nicely.  Hit a lot of good iron shots.  Would have liked a better result on the greens today but I actually putted okay.  You know, Charley hit in the hazard three times.  Looking at that, you just -- I should have won easily but saying that, that's just match play.   
I'm very, very pleased with obviously winning, because I don't want to go out on a losing streak.  So being able to win today was quite nice.   
 Q.  The good news is the dream is still technically alive.  
JASON DAY: We're holding on for dear life here.  Yeah, I think depending on what Daniel Berger did, because I think he was coming down 15, 3-up.  So we definitely needed a miracle.   
Once again, the guys, the American guys, they are a young group of guys but also have veterans on the team.  They are going to be a force to be reckoned with over so many years, because they are young and playing some pretty good golf right now.  Just tough to beat.   
 Q.  How was it last night with the team, looking at the score and trying to work out a way forward?  
JASON DAY: Yeah, there was a lot of guys -- yeah, it was tough.  Obviously we got smoked in the first four sessions.  We had kind of a great rah-rah moment at the start of the week where we're trying to lift our boys together and kind of unify ourselves as a team, which we are.   
But the Americans have just been doing it longer than us, and Captain Price -- it disappoints me that we let Captain Price down, because he's put a lot of heart and soul into it, and especially the assistant captains, as well.  I think a lot of the guys were disappointed and frustrated last night, where we're coming out today just kind of knowing that there is a chance that we can win, but obviously, you know, when I won the match, I said congratulations to Charley and his caddie, for the Cup, obviously.  It's pretty much said and done.   
So when they beat you, all you can do is say thanks.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT