BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 17, 2017
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's your big take away from today?
JASON DAY: It's nearly there.  I just need to tidy up the mistakes.  I think the shot on 11, I actually just accidently blocked them.  I was trying to aim and it was on the hill about five, six feet left and blocked it right and went in the water.  Bogeying the two par-5s.  Bit of bad break on 14.
But, I mean, obviously, it didn't really matter on 18.  It's there.  I'm making a lot of birdies, lot of eagles.  So, you know, if I can just tidy up like the silly little errors, I'll be right there again hopefully next week.
Q. As you walked off 10, did you think the tournament was within reach?
JASON DAY: Definitely.  Walking off 10 you know, having that kick-in birdie I thought, okay, I can get a solid par on 11.  Birdie 12, maybe get one on 13 and 14, 15, 16, par 17, possibly birdie 17 and 18.
If you had everything kind of be on line you could definitely get a run from 12 on and, unfortunately, just didn't go my way with the shot on 11.
Overall, it was decent.  My main goal was to try and get into the Tour Championship to give myself a shot.  I much rather -- if I had to pick, I would like to win next week than this week but I still take this week as well.
You know what, it's a good solid week.  I'm looking forward to -- actually halfway through my season I didn't even think I was going to get here, especially the Tour Championship.  Very happy about that.
Q. There's been a lot of talk in recent weeks about Leishman being underrated.  What's your take on how he's performed or basically how he's --
JASON DAY: He's underrated in --
Q. One of the more underrated on Tour, he's not getting enough credit for some of his performance.
JASON DAY: I think he's a great player.  I played with him yesterday.  He didn't even fold under the pressure of that and obviously playing today.  I'm not to sure what he finished at but I think he was 3-under going up 18.
He's obviously answering the call which is what you need to do, especially on such a big stage as the FedExCup Playoffs.
I'm just glad he's on my team for the Presidents Cup.  He's playing obviously in some good form and if he can keep it going, you know, we should have a good team going forward for the Presidents Cup.
Getting back to -- you know what, I've never really looked at other players and how they -- if the they're overrated or underrated.
I look at players, they're tough to beat.  This week he was tough to beat.  Didn't make a mistake.  Made plenty of birdies and did the right things.
It is what it is.  I think he's a great player, especially I grew up playing amateur golf against him.  I don't think he may have projected himself standing where he is today when we were sitting on a tee back when I was 16 and he was 18 or so.
You know, he's done a tremendous job, you know, obviously getting to where he is.  I think there's still a ton left in the tank for him.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT