BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 16, 2017
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Jason just comment on the 3rd Round, if you can.
JASON DAY: Bit of a grind out there today.  Yeah, I thought with the pin locations looking at them this morning I felt there was an opportunity to shoot a low score, which there was.  The greens were -- started to get a little firmer, the fairways started to get a little firmer.  With how hard it was today, the ball was going forever.
I mean I hit a 7-iron on the last one, pulled it.  It would have -- the one on 4 today, landed a 7-iron 210.  I mean I usually hit my 7-iron 185.
So, I mean my irons were -- large gap in between what I'm usually hitting.  It was really hard to judge how far I was hitting my irons.
To be honest, to only have one bogey -- obviously I missed opportunities out there like a couple on the last two days.  I missed those today and, unfortunately, shot 1-under.  To be honest, with the way I was hitting it, I mean I'm actually quite happy.
Q. Are you finding that you're putting more of the burden on yourself in terms of the caddy/player relationship at this point?
JASON DAY: I don't really.  I think the discussion between me and Luke out there, we have pretty good -- I mean, once again, I think it forces you to commit more to the actual shot rather than sometimes I be a little bit lazy on kind of, you know, looking at the overall shot and what information needs to go into that actual process of hitting the shot.
I'm out there trying to grind and go through the numbers.  I'm talking to him.  So, the communication is -- which is nice.  It was great under the first two days.  He was great today.  We just didn't get those numbers right.
Q. Would you have consulted Colin on swing stuff during a round?
JASON DAY: What is that?  Not really.  It's just like I don't really talk to him about the swing, per se.  It's really -- because when I'm out there I don't want to be thinking about the technical stuff.
I never really asked him too many things out there.  I think maybe once or twice but it was really a long time ago.
Q. Still three really good days.  Feel good again to sort of have a chance going into the final round?
JASON DAY: Yeah.  I think if I can get control of my -- the power of my swing, just a lot of power there right now and I just need to kind of at least get some sort of consistency out of my numbers.
If I can do that, then I'll be able to commit a lot more to the actual shot and hopefully if I could do that, give myself a lot more opportunities on the green.
Q. Jason, what do you think it's going to take to chase down Leish?
JASON DAY: Leish is playing spectacular -- quite happy with how he's happy because we're on the Presidents Cup team together but saying that, I mean he's going to be very difficult to beat tomorrow.
I got to come out and play really good golf because he's not making any mistakes.  He made a couple out there today early but he's hitting it in the right spots, hitting it on the greens and holing putts.  That's a good formula for success and it's going to be tough tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT