PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2020
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









JOHN DEVER:   Good afternoon.  Welcome back to the 2020 PGA Championship here at TPC Harding Park.  Pleased to be joined by Jason Day, who posted a closing 66.  He's currently at 10-under par.
Jason really incredible round of golf when you look at it, clean scorecard.  I think you burned the edges a couple times, maybe on 10 and 17.
JASON DAY:   Yeah.
JOHN DEVER:   Talk about the day in totality and your near misses maybe.
JASON DAY:   Yeah, there's three holes that I obviously would like to maybe just give myself a better opportunity and that's 4, 7, and then there's one on the back side that I -- like 15 -- no, 16, sorry.
You know, overall, I played solid golf from tee-to-green.  Gave myself the opportunities.  Although I played great, I still -- there's still a lot more to improve on.  I feel like my game was just solid enough to get, you know, into a playoff, if not win.  That's what deep down inside -- so I guess I can hear those guys screaming over there, so I'm assuming Collin just holed his putt for eagle.
Overall, very happy with how things went.
JOHN DEVER:   Is it good to get the charge, the electricity going through your body, being really in the hunt for a major again after a few years?
JASON DAY:   Yeah, yeah.  I've been going -- I've been moving in the right direction over the last four tournaments.  Things are slowly coming to -- it's like a puzzle, really.  Everything is starting to connect and click.
You know, coming into this week, I was confident on my game.  I should be walking out of here more confident just with how I played today, more so than anything.  Shooting 4-under, bogey-free on a tough golf course on a Sunday at a PGA Championship was quite nice.
Q. All the things you just said, bogey-free, hit a ton of greens on a Sunday at a major, and was it a case where you almost had to be perfect?
JASON DAY:   Yes.  You had to be perfect.  I mean, I needed to birdie 16, 17 to give myself a good shot at 18.  You know, I birdied -- I mean, if I go back through the rounds, I needed to birdie 4, 7, 16 and 17, because I felt like those were good birdie opportunities, and unfortunately it's just not going to be good enough I don't think.
Overall it was solid.  If my putter gets hot, I'm going to win pretty soon, yeah.
Q. How crazy was it?  At one time there's six guys tied for the lead, so many guys within a few shots.
JASON DAY:   Yeah, Wolff was in at 10-under.  I was thinking, okay, I need to get to 11, standing on 17.  Burnt the edge.  Tried to give myself a decent opportunity on the last hole even though I was coming out of the bunker.  Just caught it a little fat.
Yeah, there was a lot of kind of whiplash.  Everything was coming and going.  It was really cool to be able to be in contention again at a major championship on Sunday.  It's just nice to be able to know that the game can handle the pressure of trying to win a major championship.
JOHN DEVER:   It's been great to have you back in the mix.  We appreciate your time all week and best of luck going forward.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT