THE PRESIDENTS CUP
September 28, 2017
Jason Day
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The main consensus was that was an epic battle.  
JASON DAY: Yes, it was tough.  I said earlier, it was just going back and forth.  They had us down a lot early in the round and then Leish had a great chip-in on 9 and got us going again.  Spread that momentum our way, and you know, obviously the last few holes wasn't the way we wanted to finish, but with that said, any point is like moving forward even if it's a half a point.   
 Q.  Did you start to panic after the sixth hole when you were three down?  
MARC LEISHMAN: No, only three back, 12 to go, however many holes we had, you're still a good chance to win and that's why we looked at it.  Then you're even three holes later and up four holes later.  Neither of us ever give up.  We're out here it try to win it for the Internationals and that half point could be very important at the end of the week.   
 Q.  And the wind came up --  
MARC LEISHMAN: That 2-iron came in handy a little bit.  I enjoy playing in the wind.  Would have enjoyed it a lot more if we could have finished it off a little better, but you know, that putt on the last there --   
JASON DAY: I'm looking forward to a little less wind, since I hit it so hard.   
 Q.  3 1/2 - 1 1/2, happy with that?  
JASON DAY: We always get ourselves behind a little bit in alternate-shot, as I said early in the week.  It would have been nice to be 3-2, but once again, we're not that far behind.   
So I mean, you know, we've got to kind of regroup here.  The American side is obviously very, very talented and stacked, but I think our team and our boys are ready to rally behind everyone and hopefully we can finish strong later on in the week.   
 Q.  The crowd, pretty vocal, weren't they?  
MARK LEISHMAN: We knew they were going to be vocal.  That's all right.  You expect that.  Hopefully, like I said, in Australia in a couple years, we can do the same for them.  But it's great to play in front of these people.   
JASON DAY: They weren't too bad.  It was actually quite a lot of fun.  Obviously the last two holes were a little -- but that's what we get here, and we're not expecting -- we're going to let things happen and not really took too much into it.  We just have to go out there and try to play our golf and hopefully the golf takes care of the noise.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT