THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 27, 2017
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Got some feels going there today?
JASON DAY: Yeah, it was good.  Short game was nice.  It was good.  I actually hit it pretty good -- from fairway to green, I hit it great.
Yeah, so from fairway to green was actually quite solid this week.  The driver over the last two days was pretty good, too.  That set up a lot of opportunities, and then the chipping and putting came along nicely.  It was actually quite nice to be able to play the way I did.
I left, actually, a few out there today, which was good.  I mean, obviously it's not good, but I know that I'm giving myself the opportunities.  I just need to hopefully capitalize on those and maybe I'll get a win next week.
Q. How important is that, this round, and that sort of momentum giving you going to two places you do play well at the next two weeks?
JASON DAY: It's huge.  Knowing that I've got some momentum going into those two weeks -- I'm going to go home for the next three days.  I'll probably get up and play the Pro-Am and then go on from there.
But I'm happy with how things were.  Like I said, over Akron and the PGA, it was kind of building towards this.  And if you're going to play nice, it's right now.  It would be good to get a win in the next two weeks and try to set myself up in TOUR Champs.
Q. Is this the best you've played all season, and if not, is it the most consistent?
JASON DAY: When I played the Byron, I kind of -- I scrambled my way around a little bit, as in like just kind of I scored well.  Just got it around.
This from kind of everything in a mix, from driver, all the way down to the short game, was pretty solid.  I only had one bad nine, and that was Friday.  So once again, if I can not do the silly things out there and just try and not be so aggressive, because I find that I'm very aggressive out there when I do make mental errors.
Today was a perfect example of I didn't get off to a great start, bogeyed the par 5, and wasn't quite mentally there but I just kind of holed some good momentum putts going forward, and that got my day going.
Q. You're not far removed from being on run that Jordan's been on this year.  How do you describe the feeling, when you've got multiple wins, you've got a major in the bag, that kind of thing.
JASON DAY: It's a fine line between where I am and where he is.  You know, a few little things happen; momentum changes, you hole a few more putts, you gain a little bit more confidence and then you're starting to get the roll going.
That's what I feel like is happening now.  I'm much more mentally sharp right now than I have been all year, which is great, even though I am making silly errors.  I'm over the ball and I'm actually looking at the target and hitting the shot that I want to hit, rather than just looking at the target and kind of seeing nothing.
So being able to do that and focus on trying to win a golf tournament, is actually quite nice, rather than kind of not wanting to be on the golf course at the start of the year.
Q. Semi-afar, what's your impression of what he's been doing?
JASON DAY: Jordan?
Q. The British --
JASON DAY: He's just good every single year.  And I was just actually talking to Col out there today about it.  He's a competitor.  I don't know what he's doing; if he's trying to chase history or if he's trying to do something or if he writes down goals or something like that.  But he just seems like he's on every single week, and it takes a special person.  Deep down, it takes a lot of grit, a lot of heart to be able to pick yourself up every single week and try and compete.  He does it very well, because he's always in contention.
Now, granted, he hasn't had the Tiger year or the Vijay Singh year back in the day, but, I mean, what has he had, four wins, three wins?  Three wins and he's going for his fourth right now against Dustin Johnson.  He's setting himself up nicely.  He's No. 1 in the FedEx I think.  It's just a perfect combination.
Once again it gets down to he's hitting it half-decently long, hitting it decently straight, hitting better iron shots than most people, or closer iron shots, and he just putts the dots off it.  It's just the perfect formula for success.
Q. What impressed you about your game most this week?
JASON DAY: Probably the fight back on Friday afternoon because it was easily enough where you could just go, Ohhh, it's happening again, just kind of coasted in, you know what I mean, and I'm off to Ohio for at least another five, seven days.
But to be able to come back, and I'm hoping it stays the position I'm at right now, but I don't think it will because it is playing quite easy coming in.  Saying that, I think it was good to come back on Friday.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT