BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2017
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What a difference a little change makes, obviously is it getting back to Conway Farms for you?  What was it?  
JASON DAY: Obviously being able to have some good experiences here in 2015, I won here.  It's a great golf course.  It sets up nicely for me.  Being able to just go out there and play some golf and getting off to kind of an average start but making that eagle on 8 was huge and then just kind of starting to let things go on the backside was nice.   
I felt like today was just a good solid -- saying 7-under is a great start but just a good step in the right direction especially with having Luke on the bag.   
Obviously not having Colin on the bag is something different and I just didn't know how I was going to play today, obviously, because I'm so used to having Col on the bag.   
I think Luke did a fantastic job out there.  We worked well together and hope we can keep that going.   
 Q.  Super caddy as he walked in.  A lovely way to start his couple of weeks on the PGA TOUR bag.  Lots of opportunities there.  Could have been so much deeper.  The short opportunity on 14 and 17.  Overall, is everything firing or is there a couple things close that goes, "Look out"?  
JASON DAY: Well, you have to have everything going well to shoot 7-under, I think.  Anything when you shoot a deep score like that it's usually everything is kind of firing.  I drove it nicely, hit a lot of good, quality iron shots.  I putted a lot better than I had in the past.  I had a putter switch this week.  I got a new putter in the bag.   
 Q.  Not just the caddy.  
JASON DAY: No.  No, not just the caddy.  It's something where this year I struggled a lot with my alignment.  I -- changing to the Ardmore has definitely helped for alignment purposes and I felt like I was a lot more comfortable.   
 Q.  We talked about in New York about perhaps this could be your tournament to snatch away a FedExCup given the last couple of times you had a chance going into the Tour Championship, you had it taken off you.  
 Is that what is driving you here at the late stage of this season?   
JASON DAY: I'm just trying to do the best job I can.  Obviously that would be nice.  I know we talked about it, to be able to steal something like that would be great but there's so many good players playing well right now.   
From the top of the world to Dustin and Jordan are playing some pretty special golf here.  Just a couple weeks ago you see Dustin win, obviously Justin Thomas winning two weeks ago and, you know, it's going to be hard.   
But I'm hoping to get myself into next week and if I can get into next week you never know what's going to happen.   
 Q.  Coming to a place like this where you had the success you had made it easier to make the change that you did this, having Luke out?  
JASON DAY: Well, I mean it's in the back of my mind you never know -- honestly, you never know how you're going to jell together if you're going to jell well or not at all.   
He's one of my best mates but we'll be on the course together and I could completely hate him as a caddie.  You don't know until you actually do it.   
For it to be a non-cut event is key as well.  I'm not saying that I'm thinking about the cut, it's just that there's certain things that a caddy could say or do out there that costs you a few shots and you're frustrated and things turn and you are maybe looking at making the cut or missing the cut.   
Obviously having good performance here in 2015, played well here in the past is key but Luke did a fantastic job out there today.  This is something new for me and for him as well.  He has done some caddying in the past but I grew up with the guy.  I know that he's a good golfer, got a good, keen eye for the golf IQ, more-so with the actual course management.   
Yeah, I think it was a good start.   
 Q.  Other than Col, has he seen you play maybe the most golf of anybody?  
JASON DAY: We play a lot when we're at home together.  I lived with the guy for a good part of three years when I was at boarding school with him.  So we would play every Wednesday, pretty much every Saturday as well together.   
So, he's probably played -- obviously Col caddying, he's seen a lot more golf than Luke has but we grew up playing together as well.  He knows to a certain degree kind of how I feel and how I think out there especially with trying to hit certain shots.   
It's nice to be able to have that -- someone familiar on the bag but also for it to not be such a massive change for me.  That was, I think, the biggest thing.   
 Q.  You play in Columbus sometime.  
JASON DAY: He lives there.  He either comes to Muirfield or Double Eagle where I'm at.  He comes out and practice together as well.   
 Q.  Is today's round an indication that the decision was probably weighing on your mind a little bit, now you feel freer?  
JASON DAY: It could be a shot in the dark.  I don't know.  Might have been like oh, you never know.  I'm coming into a thing like that where you got to keep an open mind, just let things kind of unfold for the rest of the year and see how it goes, really kind of sit down and hopefully at the end of the year make a smart, educated decision with regards to who is going to be on the bag and whatnot and today was a good start.  Got off to a good start and we got three rounds to go and hopefully at the end of the week we're in contention.   
 Q.  The new putter is it an Ardmore 2?  Who makes that?  
JASON DAY: TaylorMade made that.  We did two days of shooting last week and they had one there and I looked at it and sat pretty so I said earlier that this year I've been really struggling with my alignment and today felt really nice.  I could actually lineup to exactly where I wanted to go and have that confidence knowing I'm starting it on that line.  Good start for the putter.   
 Q.  Does this round feel like it was as good as the 63 at Byron and how would you rank these in terms of your rounds this year, the best or thereabouts?  
JASON DAY: It's obviously up there.  Nice to shoot the same score this Saturday like I did at the Byron.  Once again, this is a great start.   
I just got to chip away at it.  I'm not really thinking about it too much.  It was something where I just kept on building and building.  There were a couple of times where I didn't even feel -- usually when you're playing a decent round there's some putts that you need to hole to keep the momentum going.   
Today I didn't need that.  Kept things going and the momentum was going my way and I was sitting there 3-under through 10 and all of a sudden I'm at 7-under.  So, it was a good one.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT