THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 24, 2017
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Surprised with the scores?  
JASON DAY: No, not really.  I think with how the course is playing, it's actually playing quite long because of how receptive the fairways and greens are.  So if you're hitting the fairways, it's quite gettable, especially on the back side.   
Yeah, it's quite gettable out there on the back side.  So if you can get something going, or get through the first kind of five holes even par or 1-under, you're doing something pretty good there.  Pretty much through the first nine, because 7,8 and 9 are no easy task to get through.   
Not surprised the scores are the way they are.   
 Q.  You've played in this thing as a high seed, and now you're coming as a punter.  What's that like?  
JASON DAY: Yeah, I'm not used to the really early tee times, I'll give you that.  But the last two years, I've had an opportunity to win the FedExCup and someone's either won or come-from-behind and won.  It would be nice to be able to do that to someone, even though, you know, I'd like to be in a better position.   
But I need to do that to get myself into TOUR Champs.  It's always important to get off to a good start this week.  If you can cap off a win here, you're pretty much guaranteeing yourself that you're going to be in TOUR Champs, especially with how the points quadruple.  If I do that, a little bit of pressure will come off my shoulders and I can worry about getting myself and playing my way into contention for the FedExCup.   
 Q.  Did you get over your cold?  
JASON DAY: No, you can probably hear it.  I had it last week.   
 Q.  You spent a lot of time yesterday signing autographs.  Do you consider that your responsibility in this whole growing the game?  What does growing the game mean to you?  We hear it all the time.  
JASON DAY: I think it's just as a professional, you've got to try and be as professional as you can.  Sometimes you can't sign all those autographs.  You just don't have the time of day to do it because you're trying to work on something or you have another commitment.  And some days, you have all the time in the world and you just go out there and sign them.   
Early in my round yesterday, I would say to people, I'll get you after the round, and then we started hitting a wall where the play started getting slow, so I started signing autographs, because I had nothing else to do.   
 Q.  Five hours --  
JASON DAY: It's just being respectful of the game, professional.   
 Q.  Is this part of growing the game?  
JASON DAY: Doing?   
 Q.  Media.  
JASON DAY: It's just everything.  I think you've just got to be a good bloke in general, really.  Sometimes I wake up and I have a bad day and sometimes I don't want to talk to you guys and sometimes I don't want to sign autographs, and sometimes I don't talk to you guys and sometimes I don't sign autographs.  So I take the good with the bad.   
I'm not perfect.  I'm just trying to do the best job I can and hopefully I make you guys happy and make the fans happy, as well.   
 Q.  You were talking about going into the Playoffs as a higher seed in previous years, do you feel like --  
JASON DAY: Are you talking about being aggressive in my position now?   
 Q.  Being more aggressive in your position now.  
JASON DAY: Well, I can definitely see what you're trying to say.  I feel like I've come into this week or the Playoffs under the radar, which is nice.  I didn't have any media Monday through Wednesday.  I was a sponsor's pick for the Pro-Am.  I'm like, whoa, what's going on here.  (Laughter) it's been a long time since I've been one of those.  Actually tried to get out of the Pro-Am but they wouldn't let me.   
It's humbling being in a position like this because I know I've had it good for a long time and through some poor play this year, I haven't been in the position that I would like to be, and humbling as in I need to work a lot harder than what I'm doing right now.  I'm working hard.  Just have to let the work catch up and hopefully it does shortly.   
 Q.  You have a lot of golf between now and when you get across town to Liberty National.  How much did that sting in 2015?  
JASON DAY: You know what, I think the guys -- yeah, I think we would like to have a really good bond session on Sunday night.  Have a few drinks with the boys would really set that off.  Because really as a team, the American Team, you see them, I talked to -- Rickie Fowler was with me at a Zurich outing on Monday and I said, what did you do over the last weekends.  He said he was on Long Island and went to Liberty National and was with Jordan and J.T. and the whole team -- pretty much part of the team.  Those boys hang out a lot.  Unfortunately the International Team don't get to hang out as much as that.  I think to be honest it's more on the veteran side of things; that we need to make the opportunity of actually reaching out to these younger guys and having more practice rounds with them.  So being able to know and get to know these guys is imperative for us as a team going forward, and I think Captain Price has done a phenomenal job with trying to bring the guys together as much as possible.   
 Q.  Does it help a lot being that close?  
JASON DAY: Yeah, it does, because no one likes to be on the losing end of things.  America has had kind of our name for the last however many years and we haven't won any, and last -- two years ago, it was actually quite close.  Came pretty much down to the last match.  So it definitely helped with the point changes of what Captain Price and the International Team were trying to get.  Once that changed, hopefully things decide to come a little bit closer.   
Yeah, it's going to be interesting in New York -- New Jersey/New York with the fans.  It's going to be loud.  I'm looking forward to it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT