THE 146TH OPEN
July 23, 2017
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JASON DAY: I think I'm getting back home tomorrow night and take a week off of practice and get into the WGC.  I've got two weeks in a row, which is fantastic on two golf courses I love playing on.  Definitely looking forward to taking the week off.  This is totally different than what style we're going to play at the WGC.  But get back to it and try to bust my butt again.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
JASON DAY: Yeah, it's always good to go back to a golf tournament that I've had good results in the past.  Quail Hollow is one of those events that I don't really play too often, but I've had pretty good finishes there in retrospect to other tournaments.  Excited about the possibility of getting another shot at winning the PGA.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
JASON DAY: It will be interesting.  There's some weather coming in.  6-under is looking pretty good from Li.  That's a tremendous score to be able to go out and shoot that score.  But right now -- I don't know -- I have no idea what Jordan is doing out there, but he's just got to somehow just try to get it done.  Obviously he's done it plenty of times before.  And Kooch is one of those guys that hits it on the fairway and get it on the green and try and get his birdies when he can.   
The biggest thing is you have to always stay patient.  Nothing really happens until like the last nine holes.  And you're trying to get yourself in contention.  Those guys are in contention, they've just got to keep fighting.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
JASON DAY: I'm a lot closer than a lot of people think.  The results -- yeah, the results -- I feel like I am.  Obviously the results aren't reflecting the scores that I'm trying to achieve.  But once again, I think just got to keep busting my butt.  I've got to stay disciplined.  If I stay disciplined, it's going to happen.  The motivation will come and go, always.  But as long as I stay disciplined, good things are going to happen around the corner.  So I've just got to be patient.   
 Q.  Do you know anything about him?  
JASON DAY: Only that he's buddies with David Lewis, who is a good man of mine.  I had a quick chat with him.  To be honest, not too much.  He just won recently, is that correct?  You know more than me.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
JASON DAY: Driving, wedges, putting.  Yeah, pretty much everything.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT