U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 15, 2017
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How are you?  And when the day starts going down, how do you hang in there?  
JASON DAY: I had two triples out there.  That obviously doesn't help.  Found some pretty awkward looks out there.  Obviously the middle stretch of my round wasn't the best.  I had four birdies.   
I mean, I killed the 5s today, which was great.  I think if we get some -- if the wind dies down a little bit tomorrow, get out with some fresh greens, I might be able to get back in this championship with a solid round.  But, obviously didn't get off to a great start.   
 Q.  How do you feel?  Is there anything going on physically or health-wise?  
JASON DAY: I just played bad golf, man (laughing).  I can't put it any other way other than just there was some good stuff mixed in with a lot of poor stuff.  Like I said, two triples, I don't know.  It's weird.  You sit there and it's not like I gave up.  I actually gave it 100% all the way through the end and I shot 79.   
It's kind of tough because out of every major championship I've played, this is probably -- this has been the best preparation going into an event, and I didn't get off to the greatest start with this first round.  So obviously I've got to do a little bit of practice tonight and try to get into it tomorrow and see how it goes.  If not, get back to the drawing board and try my best to prepare for the next one.   
 Q.  What is going to be key tomorrow?  
JASON DAY: Lot of drivers down the middle of the fairways this time and a lot of fairways and I need a lot of birdies tomorrow to get myself back in the tournament, just to even get myself inside the cut line, because I know -- I'm assuming that the USGA, obviously, don't like to see a 7-under lead the championship start of the tournament.   
So if I get through to the weekend, I can slowly inch my way back.  You don't really have to do too much on the weekend at the U.S. Open to move up a bunch and get yourself back into contention.  So the second round is crucial for me to get back on my feet, and hopefully I can do that.   
 Q.  You welcome a tough day tomorrow, given you said they might not want to see another 7-under?  Do you welcome that?  
JASON DAY: Yeah, I have to.  I've got to be a little bit more aggressive tomorrow with regards to getting out there and trying to shoot a low score.  I think there is nothing that I can hide by it, but I've got to go out there and focus harder and try to get it done.   
If they make it tougher, they make it tougher.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT