MOTEL 6 CACTUS BOWL: BAYLOR VS BOISE STATE
December 26, 2016
Jordan Feuerbach
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JORDAN FEUERBACH: I mean they really do everything well.  They're very physical, and they don't blow assignments.  They're going to try to force you to make mistakes and they're not going to.  So I think the main thing is knowing our assignments and holding onto the ball and not making stupid penalties.  I think penalties and turnovers have really killed us lately.   
So I think if we cut down on those, then that fixes a whole lot of our problems as an offense.   
 Q.  What have you seen from Zach, his progression from the start of the season to where he is now?  And what do you expect to see from him tomorrow?  
JORDAN FEUERBACH: I mean, he's getting better and better every week, in my opinion.  And he's a true freshman.  He stepped into a tough situation.  But he's been tough.  He's been extremely poised.  That's probably the thing that surprised me the most is he's never hung his head he's never gotten down.   
So I expect him to just keep improving like he has all year.  And hopefully he'll get his first collegiate win.  So that would be awesome for him.   
 Q.  Have you ever played a football game on a baseball field before?  
JORDAN FEUERBACH: I never have.  I'm excited to.  I think it will be fun and unique.  So I've been talking about that since I found out it was at Chase Field.  So I think it will be interesting.  This might be the only time I'll get to in my whole life so it will be fun.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
JORDAN FEUERBACH: It's through the roof.  He's got a great arm.  And, I mean, it's been even great since he had that injury.  So he can make all the throws that you want out of a quarterback.   
 Q.  Kyle, where are his strengths?  
JORDAN FEUERBACH: If we're talking about next level stuff, I would say he has to improve on taking more snaps under center and kind of footwork stuff.  Or mainly out of the shotgun.  I think that would be the main thing he'd have to work on.  I think his strength is he's just a playmaker, he's athletic, super athletic.  He's got a great arm.   
And he's able to improv and that's always good to have a quarterback that can get out of the pocket and make throws on the run like that.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
JORDAN FEUERBACH: Right.  Exactly.   
 Q.  Just him entering his transition time.  
JORDAN FEUERBACH: I think he can adjust.  He has the arm for it.  He'll just have to put the time in the playbook and with the footwork and stuff like that.  But he has the arm for it.  And, like I said, I think he can stay in the pocket.  If he goes to the NFL, when he's forced out of the pocket, I think he'll show his play-making ability that he did all through college.  So I think that he'd be great for the NFL.   
 Q.  From the emotional and mental standpoint (indiscernible)?  
JORDAN FEUERBACH: It's impressive how he's handled, I mean, both of them, really.  I've never -- he was smiling on the field after he got hurt.  I mean, he's never hung his head.  And I mean, everyone knows what he's been through and how much he's put in.   
And so it just made you sick as his teammate seeing him go through something like that again.  But, I mean, he's going to work hard to get back and I'm sure he'll be back even better than ever.   
 Q.  Coach said after his injury he was smiling and happy, what does that type of mentality, personality, do for the rest of the team?  
JORDAN FEUERBACH: It helps you play loose.  You don't want to play any sport tight and don't want to play worried about failure and stuff.  You want to play, you want to let it fly.   
And I think that's what he's done for our team is he's let us play to our best ability and not have any fear or any worries.  So I think that's kind of the attitude he brings to the team, a gunslinger's mentality.   
 Q.  What do you remember about that bus ride home?  
JORDAN FEUERBACH: I just remember he was smiling and he said I'm going to be all right.  I mean, I figure after you break your neck, you know, ankle is next to nothing.   
So it just keeps you at ease.  And you worry about him still, but you know with a guy like that, he's going to be fine and he's going to bounce back.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT