SYBASE CLASSIC
May 19, 2005
Siew Ai Lim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  We have Siew-Ai Lim here in the interview room.  5-under par, 66 today.  Very nice round.  Let's start with your score card.  Birdie at No. 14.
SIEW-AI LIM: Birdied 14.  Par 4.  Hit 8-iron from 136 yards to about 18 feet.  Made that for birdie.
MODERATOR:  Birdie on 15.
SIEW-AI LIM: That's a par 5, I had a wedge in from about 18 yards just off the green; went for the green in two, just left it a little short.  Chipped it up to about five feet, made that putt for birdie.
MODERATOR:  Bogey on 18.
SIEW-AI LIM: I had a poor drive off the tee, kind of got in the rough on the right side.  Hit a pretty decent shot onto the fairway.  Then hit my wedge a little too far, was back of the green and kind of ran my first putt by a little bit.  Misread the second putt.  So I 3-putted that.
MODERATOR:  How far did you have for birdie there?
SIEW-AI LIM: Probably about 50 feet.
MODERATOR:  Came back though on your back nine with a birdie at the 2nd.
SIEW-AI LIM: Yes.

I was off the green actually.  I pushed that tee shot a little light probably about eight yards off the green and chipped it in for birdie.
MODERATOR:  Followed up with birdies on 4 and 5.
SIEW-AI LIM: Hit a great shot off 4 off the tee to about two feet so...
MODERATOR:  What did you hit there?
SIEW-AI LIM: 4-iron.  Kick-in birdies (laughs).
MODERATOR:  You always got to like those.  Birdie at 5.
SIEW-AI LIM: Birdie at 5, I got my drive into that bunker on that left and hit a great 5-iron 171 yards out to about four feet, made that putt for birdie.
MODERATOR:  Then you close it out with a birdie on the 9th.
SIEW-AI LIM: Hit a great drive off the tee and hit my 52 degree wedge from 96 yards to about three feet, kicked that in for birdie too.
MODERATOR:  5-under par 66.  I know you are happy with the round.  Just a little bit about your round and being in position again because I know you were in this position similar out in Phoenix=.
SIEW-AI LIM: Yeah.  It was a pretty solid round today.  Had a little trouble with my tee shot, but iron-play was solid and didn't get me into too much trouble.  Short game was good and putting was good so that's always a nice combination.  I didn't really make too many mistakes out there.  So that kept for a round that you know, the one bogey I had was a 3-putt.  So you know, just a solid round.
MODERATOR:  All right, questions.
Q.  How have you been playing coming into this week?
SIEW-AI LIM: I struggled a little last week in Atlanta.  Worked with my golf coach.  I drove back to Birmingham on the weekend to work with my golf coach a bit and we straightened some stuff out literally, and been playing well.  I had a pretty good tournament in Kingsmill two weeks ago and decent tournament in Nashville the week before that.  Been pretty consistent, just have little ups and downs here and there.
Q.  Do you feel that this is a golf course you kind of have to attack early in the week; that it can become a lot more difficult as the week rolls on especially if it stays dry?
SIEW-AI LIM: I think this golf course is one that you need to keep yourself in position.  I won't say I went out there with the mindset of attacking it, but more of just getting out there and putting myself in positions for good birdies and converting them.  I had a couple of errant shots off the tee, but they didn't get me into  -- you know, I was able to recover well, and not make the bogeys.  I think, you know, making pars out there are good scores, I mean, there are some holes that it's a good score to have a par.  So today I was just staying in position, not making the bogeys; when the birdies came, just convert it.
Q.  You have got five missed cuts this year and Safeway looks like it was your best event.  Anything that you are feeling this week that maybe you were feeling at Safeway?  Any coloration at all to what was going on then and now?
SIEW-AI LIM: I don't think so.  I have always liked this golf course.  I have always liked it here.  It's been a great course the way it sets up suits my really good, and so I have always enjoyed playing this golf course.  And I think ball-striking-wise it's falling back together again.  It's been a little bit of a rollercoaster, up-and-down, and so hopefully I am on an up right now.
Q.  Another woman that is having a good day today is Christina Kim.  What do you know about her and her game and does it surprise you to see her throwing a low number out there today?
SIEW-AI LIM: I am excited for Christina .  She and I are good friends and we have a lot of fun joking around off the course and on the course, and she's a good ball-striker.  This is a golf course that will reward good ball-striking.  I am sure she's striking them close to the pins and making those birdie putts as well.
Q.  Sounds like your iron-play was a little inconsistent or  --
SIEW-AI LIM: Off the tee shots that was a little inconsistent.
Q.  You joke around with Christina on and off the course.  What do you think of her get-up for the golf course the hat and the colorful clothes?
SIEW-AI LIM: I think it's great.  I think it adds a little bit more personality to our Tour and I think she has a lot of fun and I think that's great.  Lots of times a lot of people don't look like they are having any fun out other and that's a shame because you know, it's great to be out here and it's great to be able to do what we do and I think she goes out there and enjoys golf and enjoys being out here.  So it's fun to be around her.  It's refreshing.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT