U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2007
Fabrice Santoro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  Fabrice, even as your legs began to go in the fifth set, did you think you had a very good chance of winning that match?   
 FABRICE SANTORO :  Sure.  Sure, you know, till the last point I thought I had a chance.  4-all I had three breakpoints.  It was three really chances and he didn't get them, and at 5-4 I was 30-Love on my serve.   
 I was pretty comfortable at this time and then I lost the last four points.  So no, even with the cramps, even with -- he was tired, but I was for sure more tired than him.   
 But I thought I had a chance.   
  
  Q.  James said something to you at the net when you shook hands.  Would you share that with us?   
 FABRICE SANTORO:  He told me, It's amazing what I'm doing at my age.  I said Thanks, my son.   
 No.  And I said, Yeah, thank you very much.  But I just told him that I was very happy about the match and I was very -- even if I lost I had a great evening and a lot of fun on the court.   
  
  Q.  How is your leg doing?   
 FABRICE SANTORO:  I was feeling better this morning.   
  
  Q.  Did you know what his five-set record was at the start of the fifth?   
 FABRICE SANTORO:  Me?   
  
  Q.  His.   
 FABRICE SANTORO:  It was very, very low, no?   
  
  Q.  It was 0-9.  He had never won a five-set match before.   
 FABRICE SANTORO:  But he never played a five-set match with a 34-year-old guy, that's why.   
  
  Q.  If you have to describe his game with one word, what would it be?   
 FABRICE SANTORO:  His game?   
  
  Q.  Yeah.   
 FABRICE SANTORO:  He has a huge serve.  Good forehand.  Very, very fast on the court.  Can run all around the court very quickly.  He's very fast.   
 And the last two years he improved his backhand a lot.  So he's a top 5 player in the world.   
  
  Q.  What's next for you?   
 FABRICE SANTORO:  Next what?  Next month?  Next 24 hours?  Next hour?   
  
  Q.  I think you're going to sleep.   
 FABRICE SANTORO:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  Your professional life as a player.   
 FABRICE SANTORO:  My professional life, I'm going to try to play quite a lot from now until the end of the year.  I did not play that much in the past five months.  I didn't play a lot on clay.   
 I play everything on grass, but then I didn't play during the summer because I want to stay home with the family.   
 But now I'm going to play a lot indoors.  I don't know where or when exactly, but probably like five, six tournaments from now until the end of year.   
  
  Q.  Why did you wait so long to call the trainer?  In the seventh game of that fourth set, you smacked your racquet into your leg as if you were cramping already.   
 FABRICE SANTORO:  You're only allowed to have three minutes once in the match, so you must choose the right time.  You don't have to use your medical timeout when you can walk, you know, you have to wait to be dead.   
 And at this time I had a first serve and I cramp badly, I double fault and I said, Okay it's time to do it because I'm going to lose my serve.   
  
  Q.  Were you perhaps thinking back to the Karlovic match at Wimbledon, that you might do something really spectacular at the end of this match and win it?   
 FABRICE SANTORO:  Karlovic match was a lot of fun, too.  I'm very lucky.  It was a huge battle on grass.  But tonight it was -- New York is something special; night session is special.  When you have the chance to play in New York in a big tournament like a Grand Slam, night session against an American guy in a great atmosphere, was feeling very lucky on the court, and the battle was just great.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT