AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2006
Fabrice Santoro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  A tremendous last set.  You looked down-and-out after losing the previous two sets.  How did you manage to win it?
 
FABRICE SANTORO:  I don't really know how.  I was very disappointed when I lost the third set because I was leading 4-2.  After that, I was I feel like I need a break, no, because I was very tired.  I recover a little bit during the fourth set, try to be ready for the fifth, and it worked.  
 
Q.  You were getting treatment.  Was that for cramps?
 
FABRICE SANTORO:  I was starting to cramp, yeah, a little bit.  My legs was very stiff.  
 
Q.  Can you describe the conditions out there. 
 
FABRICE SANTORO:  Well, temperature is like, what, 38, something like that.  The court is maybe 55.  It's very tough to play.  It's very tough to move.  Even with ice bag during the changeover, even with the hat, all in white, it was very, very tough to play good tennis.  
 
Q.  Is that even more exhausting to play 3 hours and 50 minutes in those conditions than it was, say, at Roland Garros a couple years ago when you had that marathon match?
 
FABRICE SANTORO:  Yeah.  I mean, for the marathon in the French, for sure, there is no chance we can do the same match today in Melbourne.  When we played that long match was like 20, 22 degrees.  It was a good temperature to play tennis.  But today, it's way too hot to play.  I mean, I don't know what is the limit to play tennis here.  
 
Q.  Quite an irony that almost immediately you came off, they've closed the roof. 
 
FABRICE SANTORO:  Yes, but we play outside for four hours without the roof, five sets.  Now the girls start with the roof, one hour.  That's true, huh?  
 
Q.  You think it should have been shut, the roof?
 
FABRICE SANTORO:  Maybe we can move down the heat condition.  I think they are not allowed to send matches after, what, 38 degrees or something like that, 36 or 38, I think.  We could put at 32, 34, maybe.  
 
Q.  Is that the hardest match you've had in your whole career in terms of physically taxing? 
 
FABRICE SANTORO:  Not the most difficult one, no.  I got more tired in some of the match I played in the past.  Now when I start to be very tired, I know how to deal with that.  I know trying to choose the points I have to play, trying to choose the game, even the games or the sets that I have to play, because I can't play every point, every ball at a hundred percent. 
 
Q.  If it's not the hardest, given all the circumstances, do you think it's probably the most satisfying?
 
FABRICE SANTORO:  Yes, it's one of the most for sure because it's a Grand Slam, because it's a very good opponent on the other side of the net.  After leading for one and a half hours, I was down a break in the fifth.  When you lose the third, lose the fourth, and you're down a break in the fifth, like 6-1, 3-1, against a good player like Gaudio, there's little chance to come back.  
 
Q.  Are you surprised that people have been seeing you for so many years playing the style you play, that no one else has ever tried to play the way you play?
 
FABRICE SANTORO:  And no one else will play like this after I don't think.  
 
Q.  It's so effective in so many ways.  You are still the only player that does the things you do.  You'd sometimes wonder that maybe someone will say it's not a bad way. 
 
FABRICE SANTORO:  I think it's easier to learn a normal game than my game.  My forehand, it's tough to learn.  You can learn on the other side.  Try explain the guy you have to hit your backhand like this, slice.  But a slice forehand, it's unusual.  Or you could say that I have two backhand, too.  Backhand here and backhand here.  
 
Q.  What goes through your mind in a match like that when you're tired, fatigued, it's so hot?  What keeps you going to not say, "I've played so many matches, this will do"? 
 
FABRICE SANTORO:  I could do that, but I wouldn't be there if I will think like this on the court.  I like to be out there and give my best.  I like to fight until the last point.  Today I think I was very close to lose, but even if I lost, I would be very happy about what I did on the court because I gave my best and I tried to beat him as hard as I can.  Even if I choose a good point, I have to choose the point, the most important point, when I was going for like three and a half hours.  I just like the fight on the court, that's all.  That's why I keep playing.  
 
Q.  You were saying today you took almost a rest in the fourth set.  You didn't mind spending a little bit more time out there to sort of steel yourself for the fifth set?
 
FABRICE SANTORO:  After the third set, I was very tired.  If I play the fourth set hundred percent and I lose it, the match is over for me, I can't play the fifth.  I thought it was better to put a lot of ice in the changeover in the fourth, try to breathe, walk around in the shadow at the back of the court, just play without any -- I didn't run in the fourth.  I think it was the best choice.  Even if it was hot, by playing a fifth set, it was 45 more minutes on the court, I think it was the best decision for me to win the match.  
 
Q.  What is your motivation to keep wanting to play?  In Britain there are certain people that say Henman is getting too old, should stop because his style, he can't win today against the big hitters.  You are out there playing against the big hitters, proving it can still be done. 
 
FABRICE SANTORO:  I mean, I think Tim can play a lot of good matches in the future, still, if his shoulder is okay and his back is okay, too, because he has a great volley, he can serve well, he has a great offensive game.  I saw him in Doha against Richard Gasquet, he was playing great tennis.  For me, the motivation, since I'm a kid until now, I just plan my whole life thinking about tennis.  I don't want to have any regrets.  As long as I feel that I can resist to the guys, I'm happy to be there, no?  I won't play to be ridiculous, you know.  If I play tennis now, it's because I like to be on the court, I like to work, I like the fight, and I know that I still am a pretty good player.  
 
Q.  The forecast for Sunday is even hotter than today.  How do you feel about that?
 
FABRICE SANTORO:  Maybe night session, I don't know.  Not sure.  If it's 40 degrees, it's better for me, because then you close the roof, you put the air-conditioning and we play.  If it's like 35, 36, that's terrible. 
 
Q.  42 is better?
 
FABRICE SANTORO:  42 is better.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT