TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 20, 2005
Michael Llorda
Fabrice Santoro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. I would like to ask a question about the scoring system. In the press conference, the president of the ATP talked about introducing a new scoring system, which is 6-All with no advantage, and third set replaced by a first-to-10 tiebreaker. What is your comment about it? Do you love it? 
 
 MICHAEL LLODRA: Yeah, we heard last year we're going to change the score system. Is going to be new for everyone. First, I think it's important we have to play two sets, straight sets. I'm not support maybe the no ad, but I like the super tiebreak, the third set super tiebreak. I think it's a good idea to promote -- not to promote, but to change the format. I would say it's good. We have to try, and we'll see at the end of the next year what's going on. But we have to try to change something.  
 
Q. Can you talk about the match. How tense was it in that tiebreak at the end? 
 
 FABRICE SANTORO: I think the third set tiebreak was almost the same as the first set tiebreaker, except the end. It makes a big difference. But we were up 5-2 in the first set tiebreak, and it went back to 5-4, then 5-All. Third set tiebreak, 5-2 again, and back to 5-4. At 5-4, he hit maybe the best volley of the match at the most important point. After this point, you know, I was very more relaxed. But all match was very intense for us from the first, second game till the last point of the match. I think the match was very tight. We had many occasions; they had some, too. They were up a set and a break. At the end there is always a winner in tennis.  
 
Q. You've played together for four years. Now this is the end, at least as a regular pair. Can you talk about the emotion of ending a very successful partnership like this. 
 
 MICHAEL LLODRA: Yeah, it's the last match together. But I always remember, you know, all the matches we play, the first one and the last one is going to be maybe in my memories. It's good to finish like that. We know after Bercy when we lose first round against Black, Ullyett, it was a terrible match for us. We say, We cannot finish like that. So it's important to go to Shanghai and to maybe play our best tennis. That we do. We are very happy to finish like that. Now it's a new -- not new life, but new -- he's going to play with Nenad next year, and I'm going to focus more on my singles. It's going to change. Next year, it's going to change some for me a lot because normally I play with Fabrice, and next year I'm going to play with someone else. You know, I remember a lot of thing, you know, when we won Australian Open, final in Roland Garros. It's too much. But it's fabulous to play with Fabrice. Is tough to say something because we just win like half an hour ago. But it's very good.  
 
Q. You promised if you won you'd do something crazy. Was that it on the court, or is there more to come? 
 
 FABRICE SANTORO: Was not enough (smiling)?  
 MICHAEL LLODRA: Yeah, it was like that, you know. I was in the zone, like the Americans say. But, no, it's a good way to finish.  
 
Q. Mr. Santoro, many will think technically you're unique. How do you come up with this unique technical play, style of play? 
 
 FABRICE SANTORO: Well, you know, yes, it's unique. My game is unique, but for me it's very natural. For me it's natural. I always play like this since I'm six years old. I hold my racquet with two hands. I like to play soft balls. I don't have the power of the new generation players, like Michael. But I think that is just my game. This is just the best way for me to win tennis matches.  
 
Q. Michael, we heard in Miami you've done some crazy things, as Ljubicic said. Do you think someone will hide in your locker this time? 
 
 MICHAEL LLODRA: Yeah, it's a good question. No, nobody was in my locker this morning. It's tough to find some good things to do, you know, before the match. We have to be concentrate. So after the match or maybe tonight you will see the good Michael.  
 
Q. Compared with Roger Federer, doubles players have less attention. What do you think about that? 
 
 FABRICE SANTORO: Well, I think it's fair. It's very normal that Roger Federer has more attention than us. But the attention we had during the whole week for doubles is great. The atmosphere on the court for the final today was just unbelievable. When people are enjoying a match, it doesn't matter if it's a singles or for doubles. You can see in the crowd during your match that they are happy to be there and they are enjoying the match like we did on the court. Singles will be always better -- I mean, not better, but bigger than doubles. That's normal and very fair.  
 
Q. What is your impression for this Tennis Masters Cup in Shanghai? 
 
 MICHAEL LLODRA: It was our first visit in China. It's beautiful. We love to play there. Like say Fabrice, the atmosphere all this week for the doubles was unbelievable. We are very happy to win there. All the crowd was support them during the match, support Nenad and Leander. But it was a good atmosphere and we feel good on the court. It's very important when all the players are feeling great on the court. No, we are very happy to be there in China.  
 
Q. Yesterday if you didn't win, you would do something crazy. You throw all your stuff to the crowd. Is it common for you to share your happiness with others, or is that a special thing to do after your wins? 
 
 MICHAEL LLODRA: No, I like to do that, to give all my clothes. But it was the second time only, when we won the first or the second Australian Open and here. That's not usual.  
 
Q. Back to the new scoring system. I believe some ATP players have said this new scoring system is killing the game, the doubles game. Could you talk a little more about it. Is this positive or negative? 
 
 FABRICE SANTORO: The new scoring system is not made to kill the game. It's the opposite. It's made to improve the game. I think the scoring system will stay the same in the Grand Slam, probably in the Masters Cup next year. But in older events, it's better to play shorter matches, to get the attention of the singles player, and to push maybe the singles players to play more doubles. If at the end more singles players play doubles, it will be better for the game, better for dubs, better for the tournament and the crowd.  
 
Q. Mr. Santoro, Safin said it's hard to beat you. Safin obviously is bigger than you. If you were as big as Safin, do you believe you would be better in singles than him? 
 
 FABRICE SANTORO: Well, I don't know. I have my game. It doesn't matter if I'm this big or this big (indicating big or small). If I would be like Marat, I would play the same game with my hands because it doesn't matter the length of my leg or my arm. What I'm doing when I hit the ball, it's just the best way for me to play tennis. Yes, he says he doesn't like to play against me. I think it's more in his mind than what happened on the court. Every time I'm playing him, I'm not that confident. You know, I know that he can beat me pretty quickly. But at the end I beat him most of the time. I would try to do it again.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT