US OPEN
September 2, 2005
Fabrice Santoro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions in English. 


Q.  Could you talk about coming back from an 5-1 deficit, making the match close after that. 

FABRICE SANTORO:  Well, even when I was 5-1 down, I think I was playing a pretty good tennis, but he was just better than me.  You know, before the match, I said, I'm going to try my best on every single point, you know, try to push him to play his best tennis.  Doesn't matter what the score is, I just want to play my best tennis.  So at 5-1 I keep the same -- the same idea in my mind.  I came back to 5-All.  Was a good set. 

Q.  You have beaten him twice before.  Do you have some tactics or secrets about playing the best player in tennis?

FABRICE SANTORO:  No.  I think no one has a tactic to beat Federer today.  No one has a tactic.  I beat him once in '99, I think, and once in 2002.  Since that day in Madrid, October 2002, I lost six times in a row, and I didn't win a set.  Last year I played I think two great matches against him, and I didn't win a set.  Tonight again, I think I can't play better than what I did, he's still better than me. 

Q.  Your nickname is "The Magician," what was the first time you remember being called that?

FABRICE SANTORO:  I think it's from Pete Sampras in Indian Wells, I will say 2001.  We played a long match in Indian Wells.  Was probably a third round or quarterfinal.  Was a lot of fun, too.  After the match he said that. 

Q.  Do you feel there should be double elimination in this tournament?

FABRICE SANTORO:  No.  But maybe I can play the 35 years old next week almost.  There is no double elimination.  But, you know, I like to be back again tomorrow on center court night session and play Roger again.  It's not the ATP rule.  Tournament is over for me.  I'm going back home, prepare the next one.  But anyway, even if I'm out of the tournament, I will never forget this one tonight. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT