TMS MONTE CARLO
April 12, 2005
Fabrice Santoro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 
 

Q.  Are you happy?
 
FABRICE SANTORO:  Very happy.  The conditions were very difficult, and I was playing against a more powerful player than I am.  It was complicated to move him around.  The court was very sticky, and it was difficult to overrun him. 
 

Q.  What are your expectations here and, more generally speaking, on clay?
 
FABRICE SANTORO:  This year the calendar doesn't allow to do both, Miami and here.  Therefore, since I like Monte-Carlo, and since the clay court season includes three Masters Series and one Grand Slam, I decided not to go to Miami.  I'm going to play for those six or seven weeks at full speed.  I don't know what is going to happen, but this is the charm of our job.  Any way, I am well-prepared.  I feel good on the court although I lack wins.  So if I can get one or two this week, it would make me feel free. 
 

Q.  Are you going to Spain?
 
FABRICE SANTORO:  No. 
 

Q.  In the eighth game you had trouble holding your serve.  Was it an important game psychologically?
 
FABRICE SANTORO:  Yes, it was very important because otherwise he would have been serving for the set.  So I was glad I was able to hold my serve then. Anyway, in this tournament it's not really important whether you are up a break or down a break because it's very difficult to serve aces.  My opponent is a very big server, but I was able to break him four times. 
 

Q.  He hasn't played for a long time on clay.  How did you find him?
 
FABRICE SANTORO:  I find him sad.  He's Top 25 or 30, he beat many players indoors, he won Milan this year, he's a very good indoor player, he's not as good on clay but he's still good, he's a good player from both sides, he returns well, and he serves very well, but his defense is not so good.  He doesn't move forward and backwards very well, but he still has time to improve. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT