TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 15, 2003
Michael Llorda
Fabrice Santoro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








FABRICE SANTORO: I think it was a great final. We had a couple of chance, we didn't take them. In these kind of match, you know, when two teams are very close, you have to -- you know you not gonna have like 10 chances during the match. You will have one and you have to make it. But we didn't. So we lost the match. But it was a good fight. 

MICHAEL LLODRA: Yeah, it was a great year for us, you know. We start with the Grand Slam in Australian Open. And after, we play not so many tournaments together, only 13 tournaments with this one. So I think it's great. Hopefully, today, we try to win but we lose, so... So we'll see next year. Maybe we can have not like this year, so many final losing, but it's like this. 

FABRICE SANTORO: Well, we won't change anything for next year except trying to win a couple of finals. But the schedule will be the same. We have two goals during the year, the French Open and the Olympics. So we'll try our best in these two events and try also our best in the other three Grand Slam and why not the Masters Cup again? 

FABRICE SANTORO: No, I think both match we lost against them was tight match, like the one when we beat Bjorkman-Woodbridge in the first match. I said was a close match, too. We know them pretty well now. We know exactly how well they play. Even if you don't know what they do, you know they are a good team. For all the rest, I think we play a pretty good match. We can do things here or there, but if I look behind me at the end of the season, I think we had a great year. We could have been better if we won today, if we win the semifinal in US Open. But we try our best, and we are with the top team in the world. 

FABRICE SANTORO: It affects us because in three, we won (smiling). That's all. 

FABRICE SANTORO: No, for the rest, nothing special. I mean, I can play five more sets and tiebreakers. That's not a problem at all. It was a good idea, I think, to play the final best-of-five. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT