WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 11, 2003
Fabrice Santoro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Pretty tight at the end there?

FABRICE SANTORO:  Yes, was a good comeback from him.  When I was up 5-1, I thought match is over.  But he came back strongly, and I was pretty lucky to close the match at 5-4. 

Q.  When you managed to get up 5-1, do you think he kind of let down a bit at that time?

FABRICE SANTORO:  Not really, because when you are Top 10 players in the world, you don't tank your match when you down, because there is many matches during the year where you are down, so...  I know that Carlos is a good fighter.  He won many matches when he was down in his career.  Today, he almost did it again. 

Q.  He credited a lot of your success today to your type of style of play, keeping the ball in play.  You're unorthodox.  He said that basically you kept everything in play today, and he had a lot of unforced errors. 

FABRICE SANTORO:  Yes, I didn't make many unforced errors, but I am also pretty happy in my offensive game because I came to the net a lot and I put pressure on his second serve, I try to come in on my first.  And at the end, the balance between points and mistakes is very good. 

Q.  Knocking off the defending champ, great win, does it instill some confidence in your game early this week, obviously?

FABRICE SANTORO:  I can't say that I'm happy because I won defending champion, I just happy because I beat a great player  - one of the best in the world.  And at this time of the year, after many months with pretty big trouble with my arm, it's a great victory for the next few months. 

Q.  What's actually the problem with your arm? 

FABRICE SANTORO:  A lot, a lot.  Tendon, muscle.  And this is the first time I serve that strong since maybe March. 

Q.  So you're playing through pain all the time?

FABRICE SANTORO:  All the time, yeah.  I'm not the only one on the tour, don't worry (smiling).

Q.  The fact that you're able to play double-handed both sides obviously helps take some of the strain off, does it? 

FABRICE SANTORO:  From my arm, yes, a lot.  Because I am a two-handed player, I had a chance to play the last few months.  Even if I was unable to serve hard, I was able to hit the ball as hard as possible in forehand and backhand.  But with my injury, one-hand forehand is not possible. 

Q.  A lot of people say with your style of play it's unique, that you're kind of like a magician.  Do you think all players ought to play like you?

FABRICE SANTORO:  Like to play like me? 

Q.  Yes. 

FABRICE SANTORO:  That's not the question for me, huh?  There are 64 players in the draw; ask them.  But for me, I don't think like my game is different.  I think that playing like this is the best way for me to win some matches on the tour.  But if I was able to play like Agassi or if I was able to serve like Roddick, I will do it for sure. 

Q.  You play more with your head, do you think? 

FABRICE SANTORO:  I need to play with my head because I don't have the power. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT