TMS MONTE CARLO
April 16, 2002
Fabrice Santoro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question, please. 


Q.  We stayed on the image of you as a hero of the Davis Cup.  Now, we have the impression that the hero is a bit tired. 

FABRICE SANTORO:  (He) is coming back from holiday. 

Q.  You are not tired? 

FABRICE SANTORO:  No.  After Davis Cup, needless to say that I was very tired, I was hurting a little bit everywhere, and I really needed a break.  The only way to have a break was to use the week after the Davis Cup.   Now, I absolutely have no more time to rest before the end of Wimbledon.  Therefore, I took a week holiday in order to charge my batteries, to treat my foot and my elbow.  I really needed rest. 

Q.  So your preparation for this tournament was a bit insufficient? 

FABRICE SANTORO:  My first points on clay were made today. 

Q.  When did you arrive? 

FABRICE SANTORO:  Friday afternoon. 

Q.  Did you all the same...? 

FABRICE SANTORO:  I hit a few shots for one hour on Sunday.  I didn't play on Friday and Saturday.  I hadn't played since my match in Pau until Sunday. 

Q.  So it's really the very start of the season? 

FABRICE SANTORO:  Yes.  Yesterday, one hour of doubles and today, one hour of singles. 

Q.  If you play doubles, it is rather to get used to clay just because you're coming back from a holiday? 

FABRICE SANTORO:  Yes.  I believe the best way to build up is to play matches and spend hours and hours on the court.  I told myself that playing singles and doubles I will be able to play a minimum of matches and to stay here in Monte-Carlo a good part of the week so I could practice with the best players. 

Q.  But it's still a disappointment?  It's a tournament where you had very good results in the past. 

FABRICE SANTORO:  It's disappointing because this is a tournament that is very important to me.  I really want to play well here.  But with my present schedule, unfortunately, I cannot give priority to this tournament anymore.  The schedule became crazy.  And my health is what is most important to me.  I really needed a holiday.  I had a six-day break; I didn't go for three weeks on an island!

Q.  And also you had no illusions? 

FABRICE SANTORO:  No.  I run on the court.  But when I don't practice, what I have left is my legs and my courage.  So I tried to fight, but for the rest of my game you saw what happened as well as I did. 

Q.  And how did you find him? 

FABRICE SANTORO:  A lot better than I was.  I think one leg was hurting him, one knee. 

Q.  Could you feel that on the court? 

FABRICE SANTORO:  From the first points, I saw he was dragging his left leg.  But on top of everything with the regulations, rules, we are condemned to play those tournaments. 

Q.  Does it mean that if you had a choice, you wouldn't have come here? 

FABRICE SANTORO:  I would have come all the same, if I had some illusions about this tournament.  I can't tell myself, "I'm going to miss Monte-Carlo, just skip Monte-Carlo," because it is a rendezvous and I'm happy to be here.  I tried my best on the court.  But unless you have two legs in a cast, you are obligated to play those tournaments, which is not always a good thing for sport.  But it's a guarantee to have the best players.  That's a positive point about it. 

Q.  From now on, how do you see your clay court season? 

FABRICE SANTORO:  As soon as tomorrow, I am going to start working four hours a day for at least ten days.  Then I will go to Munich in eight days.  I'm going to stay a good part of this week here.  I'm going to go back home for four or five days, and I'll be in Munich on Friday before the tournament. 

Q.  What is your schedule until the French Open? 

FABRICE SANTORO:  Munich, Rome, Hamburg, one week rest and the French Open. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT