TMS - HAMBURG
May 17, 2001
Fabrice Santoro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

ATP: Questions, please. 

Q.  Was that a very special match for you today because of the crowd of this very special situations within the match?

FABRICE SANTORO:  I think the last two matches I played here was a little bit special because yesterday I played Agassi and everybody wants him to win, but I was ready to play in this condition.  But yesterday the public was very fair.  Today was almost same condition but not always very fair.  But I think people don't understand what happened on the point at 4-3, 30-40, and that was that is why they were very confused.

Q.  What was your point of view for that situation?   Would you have given a deuce or would you have --

FABRICE SANTORO:  I didn't see the replay.  I think he had no chance -- I didn't see the replay; maybe you did, but I think he had no chance to play the ball, he had no chance to play the ball.  The ball is on the line, the point is for me, that is the rule.  But if he had a chance to play the ball then we have to play a let.  But look at the picture and you write what you see.

Q.  Was that the deciding moment of the match? I think you made five points in a row after this.

FABRICE SANTORO:  Well, yeah, I mean, I thought that he was very pissed off with this point so I want to put more pressure at the end of the set just to show him that I  was there and not disturbed by the crowd and the atmosphere.  So I had to fight and to win.

Q.  How do you manage to stay so cool within the match?   I mean, the crowd was booing on your serve and was really loud, I was sitting two meters behind you ,you were sitting there like this, standing like this; how --

FABRICE SANTORO:  It was pretty noisy, yeah.  Fortunately I am not junior.  I played many years on the Tour.  I played few matches like this and it did not disturb me.

Q.  Do you know any tactics how to beat yourself?   Could you beat yourself with a game?

FABRICE SANTORO:  Oh, probably.  Easy.  (Laughs)

Q.  But you won't tell us?

FABRICE SANTORO:  No.  I mean, I just want to focus on my game and when I am very fit like this week and I play, I am on the court and I play my point and I am patient and I don't give any points to the opponent, I think I am pretty tough to beat.  But, you know, I am losing almost every week, so some players can do it.

Q.  Why do you play with both hands on every side?

FABRICE SANTORO:  I start like this when I was six years old.

Q.  That is not enough power on the sides?

FABRICE SANTORO:  First time I took a racket at six years old and the racket was as heavy as the one I use so because I saw the racket on the court and I took it, and it was too heavy for me, so I started like this.

Q.  Does it give you more control or more power this way?

FABRICE SANTORO:  More control, more angle, maybe less power and less reach.

Q.  I got the feeling that the longer it goes the better for you because your number   - I counted them of unforced errors  - was extremely low and when you have long balls six, seven, ten times across the net then you make 95 % of the point; that seems to be a game which you like.

FABRICE SANTORO:  I mean, yes.

Q.  People can't wait for your unforced errors.

FABRICE SANTORO:  What you are  telling is the kind of strategy I have today, which I think if the point is going for more than five, six balls I am going to be more patient than he.  So as you said, if the point is long, 80, 90% I have a chance to win the point.

Q.  Can you tell us the reason why you do live in London?

FABRICE SANTORO:  I decide to go there because in France I was paying too much tax, so  --  in France when you win 100 France you keep 30.  That is a lot, so when you don't live already in France better to move, I mean, it was my opinion.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT