TMS MONTE CARLO
April 17, 2001
Fabrice Santoro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question in English, please. 


Q.  Fabrice, I did not see your match in Miami, but why was this so different?

FABRICE SANTORO: I'm partly responsible for this difference and the final result because in Miami I played a solid match.  I was happy with the surface.  I was feeling good on the surface; whereas here, I left a bit of reference points on clay, and I think he saw it. 


Q.  Can you say what those points were?

FABRICE SANTORO: In fact, about a week ago I was playing on a very fast surface, which was completely different from this one here, and the adaptation period was very short. So I was a bit lost on the court today.  I didn't know what to do when I got passed, I didn't know where to position myself on the court.  I gave him confidence, and then he became even more dangerous. 


Q.  Where was this fast court?

FABRICE SANTORO: Neuchatel, in Switzerland.  Davis Cup. 


Q.  Even so, you know, allowing for the fact that you've just come back to clay from a fast surface, did you feel that Henman was actually playing more his natural game on clay than he has in the past; that he was prepared to attack more, all the time?

FABRICE SANTORO: Normally, he's a player who is not very comfortable on clay.  For him to play well on this surface, he must indeed be very aggressive and attack even if he needs an extra shot to get to the net. This is something he did very often today, and well.  He went very often to the net. Also, what is important for him is to serve well, because I know he's able to build the point properly, but it's difficult for him to maintain a very high level during the whole match in that area of the game.  So he needs a high percentage of first serves here and there to help him. 


Q.  Fabrice, you know Tim quite well.  You've rented an apartment from him in London.  You're obviously aware that he's just split with David Felgate after a very, very long time.  Do you think that that played a part in his determination and aggression out there today?

FABRICE SANTORO: I don't know exactly what are the reasons for this separation, but when you are disappointed with your own results, it is important to make a decision that might act as a triggering effect, an electroshock. And I think, indeed, this separation can push him forward and give him extra motivation in a period of time when nobody expects much from him or he doesn't expect much from the clay court season anyway, because the two following months are not vital for him usually in the year.  He never was very brilliant during this period. So maybe he could play this period alone, and he showed today that he was able to do that.  Now, playing a whole career alone is another kind of thing. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT