TMS - CINCINNATI
August 11, 2000
Fabrice Santoro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions.


Q.  When somebody comes off a win over Pete Sampras the night before, can you sense right away that they feel very confident when they get out there?

FABRICE SANTORO:  Yes, for sure.  I mean the way he beat Pete yesterday gives him a lot of confidence for today.  He was playing very relaxed because of his win last night. 


Q.  (Inaudible)?

FABRICE SANTORO:  No, I wasn't expecting for this.  Because, I mean, during my career I beat seeds.  It helps a lot for your confidence when you beat like Pete, you just feeling way better the next day. 


Q.  (Inaudible)?

FABRICE SANTORO: ...(Inaudible).  The serve, he's very good to return.  When he hit volleys, it's very tough to make a passing shot and it's also very difficult for me.  I can't stay in the back of the court.  Every time he has an opportunity, he goes to the net.  So I think all these strategies...(Inaudible)... Made for hard court or indoor. 


Q.  Can you see him coming through and winning this tournament?

FABRICE SANTORO:  As long as he play like this, he have very good chance.  When you look at the match today and what he did last night, in the second round it's three easy wins for him.  And that means he's in good shape.  He's very fresh compared to some other players.  So I think it's going to help during the weekend. 


Q.  There's been some talk about moving this tournament to another location in the city.  What is your opinion of staying closer to the city?

FABRICE SANTORO:  I would love to.


Q.  Move closer?

FABRICE SANTORO:  Yeah.  It's my fourth year here and I never been to the center, so... I love to see a part of the city.  I heard there is some good restaurants, a very good French one. 


Q.  We have a five-star French restaurant.

FABRICE SANTORO:  Exactly.  But it's too far, 45 minutes. 


Q.  Right.  And if it stays in this location, what changes would you like to see?

FABRICE SANTORO:  I think the tournament is fine.  The only problem with the tournament, we are in the...(Inaudible).  But transportation is good.  Every player has his own car during the whole week.  The food is okay.  Not unbelievable but okay.  And we have nice Player's Lounge.  Everything is fine. 


Q.  If they could just bring the city closer?

FABRICE SANTORO:  Yeah.  There is nothing wrong.  You have a lot of fun during the week. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT