TMS MONTE CARLO
April 19, 2000
Fabrice Santoro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
Q. Was it really impossible to play during this first set; no possible solution?

FABRICE SANTORO: I have not the impression I played a bad match. I think during this
first set I didn't play so bad. But unfortunately there was no solution. During the
rallies I was condemned to run. As soon as I was aggressive I was counterattacked. I had
the impression of remaining there without any solution and only an increase in first
serves or taking more risk could have pulled me out of this hell.

Q. You didn't come out of it so badly, in the second set the game was tighter and the
difference was not great -- was not big.

FABRICE SANTORO: Exactly. I had many breakpoints and I was not able to convert them. I
believe the second set was really encouraging, I was able to change my tactics and to pose
some problems to him.

Q. What bothered you most in his game?

FABRICE SANTORO: As I said, it is the fact that I had no solution as soon as I was
trying to fight from the baseline I was systematically counterattacked when I tried to go
up to the net. In the end of the set I wondered what to do to reverse the situation. The
only solution was to serve well for my first serve and to go systematically up to the net
and no longer play an angle.

Q. During the rallies his topspin is heavier and prevents you from settling down in
your game?

FABRICE SANTORO: I don't know if you can see it from outside, but when you are across
the net from him, it is very difficult to play. If I am behind the baseline I can -- it is
difficult to play against that type of player. The only solution is to go up to the net,
but you have to go up with shots that are really good attacks and it is very difficult and
you have many chances of making a mistake. So is it better to stay behind the baseline and
run a lot? I think the solution is to attack although you might miss now and then.

Q. You are one of the players on the Tour who assesses best the opponent. We have the
impression that against Corretja you didn't anticipate as well as usual. Is it true or
not?

FABRICE SANTORO: It is true I had some difficulties reading his game because he is a
player who fixes his opponent behind the baseline. He is able to change his way of
playing. It is difficult to anticipate against this type of player. My major problem was
that he was making many few mistakes and as soon as you do an average shot he makes the
point. That is enough to be a great player. The guy who makes no mistakes during a first
set, who serves well in the first serve and who, on a short shot, puts you at four meters
from the ball......

Q. Compared to the matches you played against him on hard courts is there a great
difference between you two on clay?

FABRICE SANTORO: I feel better on hard courts and he feels better on clay. Maybe I will
have difficulties to beat him on clay in the future, but I still believe I can achieve it.
Even if he is an excellent player, I am not saying he is unbeatable. I am sure I have my
chance and I can beat that type of player.

Q. You are a great tactician; you can find drawbacks in the opponent's game and
apparently it was difficult to find one in his game. Does that excite you? Does that
motivate you for other matches when you think that you will be able to do this or that?

FABRICE SANTORO: Yes, yes, I will beat him one day on clay. The solution is really
being aggressive. If I remain three meters behind the baseline it wouldn't work. So I
really have to take some risks. One day he might be less consistent in passing shots.
During our last match I had the impression that I was systematically at the net. I lost in
three sets in Rome and three sets in Key Biscayne. And I feel that I can beat that type of
player. The way out is to be aggressive. You must prevent him from organizing himself and
you must push him from the beginning of the rally. This is really difficult to do on clay
compared with hard courts. Attacking against the opponent is easy on hard courts. But the
trajectories are very surprising, I don't know.

Q. Is there a topspin which is more powerful than his on the circuit?

FABRICE SANTORO: Yes, some players play faster than he does.

Q. The ball bounces very high? 

FABRICE SANTORO: Well, already the score is very severe. But we played more than one
hour and a half. It was a real match. During one hour and a half I had the impression that
I wasn't able to play one ball. I was there and that is all. I had to hit systematically
above my shoulder and it was difficult for me to attack on my backhand. Not only you have
to attack but you have to attack well. And when I was attacking not so well, I was being
overpowered. His lift is very powerful. Some players have balls which are going faster but
are less bothering on clay.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT