TMS MONTE CARLO
April 17, 2000
Fabrice Santoro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
Q. How were the game conditions? Was it up to the limit?

FABRICE SANTORO: Apart from the wind called Mistral there was everything out there. It
was almost the worst conditions possible. We really had the impression we were playing in
mud. It rained all the time and rather strong and stronger than the other rounds. The last
two or three games were really up to the limit. The match should have been stopped. At
that time I tried to lose a minimum of time because I didn't want to stop. I didn't want
the umpire to stop the match. Apart from the difficult conditions I am happy that I
completed my task.

Q. In a match like that, is it possible to judge your level of game?

FABRICE SANTORO: All the same, yes. The first match on clay is always a special match
that I really fear enormously. Plus, in these extreme conditions, the game was not easy. I
came out of it lucky given the game conditions. Apart from the 25 first minutes where I
was defensive and I had problems finding a good depth for my shots, then I became more
aggressive when I needed it.

Q. Why are you afraid about clay court matches although it is your preferred surface?

FABRICE SANTORO: No, it is in your minds that it is my preferred surface. My first
final was played in 1990 on hard court in Toulouse. The second one was in Dubai in 1993.
In your minds I might be a clay court player, but for me, even if I am not bad on clay
court and I know I am able to come out of a difficult situation, I don't consider myself
as a good clay court player. I am better on hard courts or indoors.

Q. This is why you are a bit afraid?

FABRICE SANTORO: Yes, since Key Biscayne I had to play on clay. I had a few days break
and after I did a very hard work and I learned to slide on clay courts again, but today it
was useless because the court wasn't slippery at all. I am not really well prepared
because of my injury in the back, so was not playing before.

Q. You only played three tournaments last year? 

FABRICE SANTORO: Yes, only three tournaments. That is not much. I have the impression I
didn't play on clay for two years. I had to do a great work, winning this first match was
very important.

Q. You already played him once?

FABRICE SANTORO: Yes, in Bournemouth.

Q. Did you draw some lessons from this first match?

FABRICE SANTORO: The game conditions were completely different. It was American clay
court which is different. It is green. It is faster than ours. This player is able to hit
hard on both sides and he has a very good backhand on the line. What I had to do was to
have him play inside of the court where he is more vulnerable. I was able to play sliced
shots and he was not very comfortable with them.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT