AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2009
Fabrice Santoro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RODDICK/F. Santoro
  6-3, 6-4, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. When you finished your match, what were your emotions or feelings?   
 FABRICE SANTORO: It was a great feeling, even though I lost the match, because first I have a lot of respect for Andy. It was a chance for me to finish here at Melbourne Park against him on a big court, instead of losing first round on an outside court against another player.   
 So it was a good way of leaving the tournament and leaving Melbourne.   
  
  Q. What memories will you take away from the Australian Open?   
 FABRICE SANTORO: As I said the other day, probably five of my best ten memories in twenty years of career. With the Davis Cup final here in 2001, three double finals, and one quarterfinal in 2006. Those five memories will stay forever in my mind.   
 This year I lost third round. But at my age, being 36 and going to the third round, without a good draw because I beat Ferrero and Kohlschreiber who are top-class players it's a great achievement for me.  
  
  Q. You can hear the emotion in your voice. Is it hard when you realize this is coming to a completion?   
 FABRICE SANTORO: I have to stay focus. I have ten more months to play.   
 No, but I was not expecting at all for the ceremony on the court. It was something very emotional for me because we are so far from France, one of the biggest tournaments in the world, and on the other side of the net a top-class player.   
 Being on the court with a microphone and talking to the crowd, probably live TV in France, I was not ready for that.  
  
  Q. I think we'll miss you here, but how much will you miss...  
 FABRICE SANTORO: I will miss you a lot. I will be back in Melbourne probably without a tennis racquet. I'll be back because I love your country, and I love this city especially in Australia. As I said, this city will always have a special place in my heart.   
  
  Q. Have you drunk the champagne yet?   
 FABRICE SANTORO: I look like? No, no. Not yet.  
  
  Q. You got a gift from Tennis Australia to go anywhere for dinner as well.   
 FABRICE SANTORO: They just gave me the envelope and the tournament director said, We'll talk later on what's inside.  
  
  Q. Apparently it's a gift to go anywhere in Melbourne for dinner for you and your people.   
 FABRICE SANTORO: Okay.  
  
  Q. Any ideas where?   
 FABRICE SANTORO: No. Can you help me?   
  
  Q. I'm from Sydney. Do you want a good French restaurant?   
 FABRICE SANTORO: No, plenty of time for a French restaurant. No, but find a good place. I have to celebrate tonight.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT