AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2009
Fabrice Santoro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 F. SANTORO/P. Kohlschreiber
  5-7, 7-5, 3-6, 7-5, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How badly were you hurting at the end? You looked as though you were happy that the match finished.   
FABRICE SANTORO: Yeah, the last point I was happy. Just before the point I remember I feel very bad pain on my left leg. It started cramping badly. I was very worry about playing the last point. Just happy to finish this match.   
  
  Q. What was the factor, I mean, why did you win? Describe how you won.   
 FABRICE SANTORO: I won because I didn't want to lose, is the main point. When I start the match, I was feeling pretty well. I recover from two days ago against Juan Carlos. It was pretty warm out there.   
 But then the sun came down and I was feeling better on the court. I just want to leave the tournament 100%, leaving the best I can. I think I played one of my best Grand Slam match.   
  
  Q. Do you have in your mind the memories from three years ago when you just had your first quarterfinal in the singles?  
 FABRICE SANTORO: Yes, Melbourne means a lot for me. Melbourne Park has a lot of memories. I love the city and I love the tournament.   
Melbourne Park is something very special for me. Every time I come here I play good tennis. I have the power to push my body to give the best I can. Once again, this tournament, even if it's not over, this tournament is a great moment for me to remember.   
  
  Q. What were your impressions of your opponent?   
 FABRICE SANTORO: I knew before the match it was going to be very difficult. I knew him for a couple years. He's the kind of player I like to watch on TV or when I can. Because he can do everything on the court. He moves well and serves well. Unbelievable backhand and the forehand is pretty good, too.   
 He has every opening in his racquet. So I was worried before the match. I thought it's going to be very difficult to beat him. He pushed me to play my best, and I did it.   
  
  Q. He said you have no chance in the next round. He would have easily won if you had played best-of-three sets. What are your comments?  
 FABRICE SANTORO: I can't say I have no chance at all for the next round. It's going to be tough for sure. I will see Friday morning when I wake up how good is my body, how bad is my body.   
 Then we'll see. But once again, even if I'm tired Friday, even if I can't play my best tennis, I will give everything on the court.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT