NBA FINALS: CELTIC v LAKERS
June 8, 2010
Kevin Garnett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Los Angeles Lakers 91
  Boston Celtics  84 
   
  Q. Talk about the start that you got off to and the team and what happened from there.   
 KEVIN GARNETT: Well, I was able to get into a nice rhythm. Didn't really think about too much tonight. Really wasn't overly excited. I thought for the most part I stayed composed. Really just was numb, to be honest. Took what they gave me, stayed aggressive, took my shots, and that was it, nothing more than that, less than that.   
  
  Q. What happened to the team after that, though?   
 KEVIN GARNETT: I think we went through a drought, obviously, and playing a team like this, you can't dig yourself a hole. I think it was 17, 16, I'm not even sure, but that's too big of a deficit to dig yourself and then try to come out of it was very difficult. But for the most part we did. Thought we had our chances to win, just couldn't close it out.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about that play at the time-out when they had the replay review, because Doc said he felt like it was inconclusive. But what did you feel like happened when you were out there?  
 KEVIN GARNETT: What play are you speaking of?   
  
  Q. With about a minute and a half left they had the review after you guys -- you guys called time-out and they had a review and awarded the ball to the Lakers.   
 KEVIN GARNETT: Are you talking about when he tipped it out on me?   
  
  Q. Yeah.   
 KEVIN GARNETT: I just thought he tipped it out of my hand. Sal said it was off of me. It is what it is. Because of league fines and all the other -- you know, gag order, I choose not to comment on that.   
  
  Q. The fast start tonight, was that something that Doc had talked to you about prior to the game, trying to set tempo early on?  
 KEVIN GARNETT: I haven't had the type of games that I would like, haven't had the type of rhythm that I would like. Tonight was just a rhythm night for me. Like I said, it flowed. I went with it. Doc pulled me to the side after Game 1 and told me to stay aggressive. Different series, different players are going to be big nights, certain guys are going to have better flow. Ray Game 2 had a great flow, I had a decent flow tonight. But at the end of the day it's about the wins. I don't care how I'm playing. I played crap in Game 2 I thought, but I got some key rebounds in that game and we won. Tonight I had a nice offensive flow and we lost. I'll take Game 2 and how I played there and wins all day over a steady flow and a decent offensive game.   
  
  Q. Everyone in the basketball world tonight giddy to see you play like the Big Ticket. But Game 2 to Game 3 what did the Lakers do so differently in Game 2 to what they did in Game 3 to regain the edge?  
 KEVIN GARNETT: Well, I thought that the drought, the fact that we didn't score for six minutes, seven minutes, whatever it was, that does a number on you. You know, as a team we didn't play offensively well. I thought defensively we dug in there, we hung in there, we came back, we made our run. I think we even tied it up, went up a couple points, if not one, so some small breakdowns at the end of the game, and against a team like this you can't do that. You've got to finish the game out, and you've got to finish it out solid.   
  
  Q. Are you disappointed that The Garden hasn't been as difficult of a place for people to play, for opponents to come in and play, as it has in past years?  
 KEVIN GARNETT: The place is rocking, you know. I can't even hear half the calls in here because it's so loud. I'm going to leave that one alone because that flows into officials and everything else, and I'm not going to touch that.  
  
  Q. Are you disappointed that for the third straight series a team has come in and won a game on your home court?  
 KEVIN GARNETT: Yeah, very much so. We've got to do a better job of defending home court.  
  
  Q. Take us late in the ballgame when Fisher went coast to coast, got that hoop, and how big that was.   
 KEVIN GARNETT: That was a big hoop. I think we were down four at that point and still had a chance with 50 some seconds, whatever it was, and just miscommunication, and he saw a lane and he went. I wasn't sure if Rondo or someone was going to come, but I found myself isolated. I didn't know if they were going to call a time-out or whatever, but it was a weird play. He ended up getting a three-point play, and that's the game pretty much.   
  
  Q. How frustrating is it to come back from down 17 and not be able to get over that hump?  
 KEVIN GARNETT: It's very frustrating, very frustrating when you don't play well offensively but defensively, you know, you sort of buckled down and get the stops and things that you want and you get back into the game only to come up short.   
 Yeah, that's real disappointing.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT