NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v MAGIC
May 23, 2010
Kevin Garnett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 14 hours after the fact, how do you feel about the team, what you did in Game 3, as you look ahead for Game 4?   
 KEVIN GARNETT: Game 3 is over. Last night was what it was. Today is a new day to get better and watch film and practice.   
  
  Q. Kevin going up 3-0, what do you guys want to improve on in Game 4?   
 KEVIN GARNETT: Just being consistent with our defense. Right now I feel like the defense has a -- our offense, when we're solid like we were last night, especially on the defensive end, we're able to convert over to fast-break points, easy baskets, stuff like that.   
 So we have to keep that consistent primarily.   
  
  Q. You've been in so many of these situations.. what makes winning Game 4 the most difficult of all the games?   
 KEVIN GARNETT: It's the close-out game. The close-out game is always the hardest, the most difficult. We want to get our team's best at this point. We have to be ready for them.   
  
  Q. Were you surprised to hear Dwight and Van Gundy say our heads weren't in it, our minds weren't in it. We're talking about the Celtics (Indiscernible). How good has your focus been to have those guys call that --  
 KEVIN GARNETT: None of my concern. That's them. Nothing more, nothing less. I can't think about how they're playing or what's going through their head.   
  
  Q. In what way does what happened to the Bruins up 3-0 serve as a cautionary tale as far as the team going forward?   
 KEVIN GARNETT: It's not hockey. The Bruins are not the Celts. The Celts are not the Bruins.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 KEVIN GARNETT: It only helps by guys understanding their roles versus finding their place, finding the lane, rotations are consistent. There's not a lot of -- the rotation (Indiscernible).  
 You know the team you are playing, you have time to get ready for them. You know the strategies and what you're going to do. You know what you're trying to get out of each game. You're not preparing for a Final Four, six, seven, eight, nine different teams. The playoffs come, you are playing against that guy, that team, and so forth.   
 Playoffs are a better time for basketball just because of that.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT