NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v MAGIC
May 20, 2010
Kevin Garnett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Yesterday did you get a full day of rest?
 KEVIN GARNETT: Yesterday was a travel day. That's all. Nothing more, nothing less. 

 Q. You have a couple of days, any big deal --
 KEVIN GARNETT: You have to prepare. You have to work on things you haven't been doing well. Practice is always good. 

 Q. What is the fine line between confidence and overconfidence in this series? 
 KEVIN GARNETT: In my estimation, confidence is what you go out and do as opposed to talking about it. We haven't done anything but won two games. Now it's up to us to defend our home court. 
 It's important we stay humble and understand this is a long process. This is seven games. 

 Q. Can you talk about the defense you've played and why it's been so effective the first two games? 
 KEVIN GARNETT: I don't know. Just trying to keep a hand up. Baby and myself had the responsibility. To tell you the truth, a lot of the focus is on Jameer. Dwight, I'm sure he'll be real aggressive in Game 3. I'm anticipating that. 

 Q. Is it safe to say you guys are playing the best defense of the season and that's one of the reasons you guys have caught fire here in the last couple of games, the defense you guys are playing as a team? 
 KEVIN GARNETT: I just think in the playoffs you don't have multiple teams that you have to worry about. You know, you have a couple of teams that you're focusing on. When you prepare for a series, you prepare for one team, versus having to worry about three or four different teams. So regular season is one season, the playoffs is totally another. 
 So it simplifies things and details when it comes to assessing a team and how to stop them and strategic and all that. 

 Q. Kevin, how satisfied are you with the way you guys have defended against the threes so far? 
 KEVIN GARNETT: We can be better. They shoot a lot of threes. As far as satisfied, I'm not satisfied at all. We can do a lot better job than we've done. 

 Q. Is there a sense of urgency waiting here --
 KEVIN GARNETT: Believe me, in Doc Rivers' system there won't be any sitting around. I can tell that you. We are looking forward to coming here and bettering ourselves today and getting ready for Game 3. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT