NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v HEAT
May 29, 2012
Kevin Garnett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Kevin, when Doc and you guys say no more lay‑ups, what has to be done to stop‑‑
KEVIN GARNETT:   Stop the ball.   Got to have more control.   Whenever you see a lot of lay‑ups in a playoff game ‑‑ Conference Finals, can't happen.   Can't win a game like that. 

Q.   Do you see this becoming a more physical series? 
KEVIN GARNETT:   I think you have to expect it to be physical.   None more, none less than that. 

Q.   Is it something that you guys maybe have to do more of? 
KEVIN GARNETT:   Be physical? 

Q.   Yeah. 
KEVIN GARNETT:   I think the series is physical within itself.   Whether it's intense, that remains to be seen.   Whether it's very intense, you have to expect that in the Conference Finals.   It is what it is. 

Q.   What do you think will have to be the biggest adjustment to steal one here in Miami? 
KEVIN GARNETT:   Play better, stick together, and have more of an an impact defensively.   Like I said earlier, making lay‑ups is a lot.   They thrive off that.   And they're playing at home. 

Q.   When you said you have to make them less comfortable, what did you mean by that? 
KEVIN GARNETT:   I mean everything can't be so simple and so easy.   You have to put some type of impact, some type of a defensive impact into the game.   You're playing a team on the road.   You try to make it as uncomfortable as you can.   When you're playing against two of the greatest to ever play the game, you know, guys who are offensively gifted, high basketball IQs, know how to play the game, numerous traps, numerous schemes, you have to be cohesive.   You have to be together.   You have to understand strategies, the plans.   You can't be‑‑ the margin is very, very small at that point. 
I felt like ‑‑ we're a defensive team.   We didn't get into a flow defensively and slow down anything. 

Q.   Do you think some of the shooting woes from the other guys is a product of having to play Saturday night, travel Sunday, less than 48 hours ‑‑
KEVIN GARNETT:   Let me say something to you.   These are the cards, and you're going to play them.   Travel‑‑ illness, travel‑‑ we're a no‑excuse team.   That's what it is.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT