NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v CELTICS
May 25, 2008
Kevin Garnett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Kevin, your thoughts on how you feel today. 
 KEVIN GARNETT: We just won a game, no more, no less than that. Today we're going to fix some things we didn't do well last night and get ready for tomorrow.

 Q. Talk about how Posey, Rondo, Perk and those guys really helped and contributed to the offense. 
 KEVIN GARNETT: Perk, Rondo, they was helping out those guys, did a good job of moving around a little bit. I thought we did a good job of finding them. Pose, guys came through big for us, Sam. 

 Q. Talk about the consistency that you've been able to play with in these playoffs. 
 KEVIN GARNETT: Just fairly aggressive, nothing more, nothing less than that, just trying to be aggressive. Every time I've got a one-on-one, try to take it. Other than that, trying to make plays for my teammates.

 Q. How do you avoid complacency, trying to get too fat and happy after coming here and getting one game and going in and making sure you're aggressive again?
 KEVIN GARNETT: It's not that type of series. It's not a win-one-and-be-happy type of thing. You take it one game at a time, one day at a time, one place at a time. Like I said, we have to fix what we didn't do right in the last game and try to do it better the next game.

 Q. What do you think you guys did best last night?
 KEVIN GARNETT: I thought we moved the ball early. I thought the ball moved from strong side to weak side pretty well. I thought we were aggressive to begin the game. You've got to do that against this team. And when they upped the pressure, I thought we did a good job of sustaining it and staying aggressive. You've got to do that. 

 Q. You know Chauncey pretty well. How painful do you think he is out there?
 KEVIN GARNETT: I don't know. I seen his family after the game. I mean, I think you're asking questions that only he can answer. 

 Q. (Inaudible). 
 KEVIN GARNETT: He looks fine to me, man. I know he's saying he's hurt or whatever, but you guys are not trying to guard him off the pick-and-roll. If he's hurt, it's hard to see. 

 Q. Just how excited are you about the challenge tomorrow to try to get to three? And what would that mean to you?
 KEVIN GARNETT: It's a challenge that we've got to figure out and do. Like I said, man, we won last night, that's what it was, and today is our fix day, and hopefully try to get one tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT