NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 17, 2006
Kevin Garnett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Can you talk about Yao's impact on the game? 
 KEVIN GARNETT:  His impact has been just that.  I think not just talking about the size, but it helps that China is one of the biggest countries out there, but the fact that the kid can play and he has a lot of talent.  He does have the whole country on his back and he does represent that. 
 So I think not only that, but with the help of Dirk, those international players, Tony Parker, it's making the game a lot more international. 
 Q.  When you come to the All-Star Game, do you trade jerseys for each other's shoes and stuff like that? 
 KEVIN GARNETT:  We mix up everything.  Back when Gary (Payton) was an All-Star, I know he would go around and trade jerseys with guys, name tags, shoes.  There's a lot of things that's available here at the All-Star Game that's not even available throughout the year.  The All-Star socks, the different stuff that they give us.  It's a special time. 
 Q.  Do you collect or keep some of your own stuff, like basketball cards or trade with some other guys? 
 KEVIN GARNETT:  No.  You know, I try to savor each year.  Everybody is getting better.  I think that's apparent this year.  No guarantee that you're going to be in the next one.  What I try and do, I just save all the memorabilia I can. 
 I'm trying to think, as you would ask me the question, the last person I might have traded with might have been Gary.  All of the jerseys I have are framed and I keep it to myself.  Some day when I have kids, I'll reflect back on those guys. 
 Q.  Have you seen the All-Star Game change over the years since you've been involved? 
 KEVIN GARNETT:  Changed in what way? 
 Q.  More of a Super Bowl build-up to the game? 
 KEVIN GARNETT:  It's huge.  There's definitely a sense of an awards show, or it's definitely on the sense of Oscaresque.  They have a lot of attention, a lot of celebrities, a lot of hot things going on for the weekend.  It's three or four days, but it's a huge, huge weekend, and it's a weekend to not only be seen, but I'm sure a lot of people want to be seen with somebody.  It's never been a dull moment, I can tell you that. 
 Q.  Do you still get the same excitement, feeling, coming to the All-Star Weekend? 
 KEVIN GARNETT:  Definitely.  To come to the All-Stars, just to be recognized, that's a privilege.  I take it like, only so many people can obviously be here and with so many guys having great years.  I'm blessed.  Every time I'm here, I always enjoy myself.  I don't think about all of the couldabeens and shouldabeens.  I'm here and I enjoy it. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT