NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 18, 2011
Kevin Garnett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. The last couple of weeks, guys seem to be taking a shot at you in the media, Spike Lee; maybe calling you a dirty player and the antics need to calm down. 
 KEVIN GARNETT: Listen, I don't play for the Phoenix Suns. I could care less about what spike or whoever else has something to say about me. My organization is happy with what I'm doing; I could care less. They just like hate -- don't use that word. 

 Q. I know you're a competitor --
 KEVIN GARNETT: I'm a competitor and play hard but don't call me dirty. Just like if you dislike me, dislike me. Hate is a strong word just like dirty is a strong word. 
 It is a different league. It's a more offensive league. I'm sure the league likes to promote offense and it's cool. Don't call me or make me out to be something I'm not.

 Q. Do you think the fact that you play with such grit, trash talk -- to get your competitive -- just the fact that you bring that and guys don't seem to have that kind of thing like they used to. 
 KEVIN GARNETT: I don't know what it is. Just came out of the blue. Came out of the blue from nowhere, the situation, whatever it was. I'm not going to speak about it. Just like if you don't like my play, don't watch it. I'm out here trying to win, period. 

 Q. Playing at a high level --
 KEVIN GARNETT: It's competitive. If you and I was doing something that caused me to be competitive, I would be competitive. But I don't know anybody in this room that wants to lose, and if so, that's them. I go out there a certain way, always have, always will. I don't make any more about that or any excuses about that. 
 I respect the game and I respect the players in it, damn not trying to hurt anybody. I don't want to be hurt. 

 Q. Can you talk about the situation now --
 KEVIN GARNETT: We are fortunate if we do. It's part of the business. And unfortunately football is dealing with some of the same issues. Both sides -- have a real conversation about business with them and them only. Look at it like these are the demands of the players and I think it goes back and forth. You can take as much as you want from the players, this and that, verbatim the players versus the league -- inaudible. It's on front like it is but that's part of it. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT