NBA FINALS: CELTIC v LAKERS
June 16, 2010
Kevin Garnett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Kevin, you guys have gone through a lot of adversity this year. Obviously Kendrick not playing tomorrow, Doc said, is the latest in that kind of adversity. If you guys are able to win the title tomorrow will it be a greater accomplishment than when you won the title in 2008?   
 KEVIN GARNETT: We're dealing with everything that's going on, but I'm pretty sure both sides can say the same thing. You know, you don't get to this point and learn to appreciate it without going through something.   
  
  Q. What do you see as the key or keys to tomorrow's game?  
 KEVIN GARNETT: Consistency, defense, energy coming out, having a great start, not being the one to be hit but hit first and stand firm and consistent throughout the game.   
  
  Q. Moments like this is kind of why you brought Rasheed here, to put you over the top. How critical is it for him to perform tomorrow given Perk's injury?  
 KEVIN GARNETT: Not just Sheed but everybody. We're going to need everybody's best tomorrow. Sheed is just a piece of the puzzle and we've got to make it come together tomorrow if we want to win.  
  
  Q. I'm just wondering if you've been on a closer team. You see kids out there playing ball before practice. Have you been on a closer team?   
 KEVIN GARNETT: Say that again.  
  
  Q. Have you been on a team where guys are closer? I mean, Doc just told me out in the hallway he's never been on a team or coached where teammates are closer.   
 KEVIN GARNETT: I didn't understand the reference and what you were speaking of.   
 Um, yeah, this is a very tight, close-knit group. We're grueling on each other, we can speak to each other in different ways. We interact with each other a lot. I haven't been on a team to where, other than in '08, to where guys were even closer. Believe it or not, that makes a huge difference.   
  
  Q. How so?   
 KEVIN GARNETT: Well, you know who you can trust. You know the guy you're dealing with. You know his personality. And just I'm speaking in multiples of guys. It makes it -- simplifies it a little more when you know who you're doing it with and who you are and who the personality is versus not knowing.   
  
  Q. The winner-take-all type atmosphere, you don't have to worry about rest or the next game. What's that going to be like for you knowing that everything has to be -- you let everything hang out?  
 KEVIN GARNETT: It's all out. It's for the marbles, it's for everything, all out. You save nothing, you leave nothing.   
  
  Q. Is that exciting or something that gets your juices flowing?  
 KEVIN GARNETT: Juices flowing and they'll continue to flow.   
  
  Q. Obviously when you go 2-0 against what is considered Kobe Bryant's Lakers, does that mean anything more to you in terms of what you guys would think about the accomplishment?   
 KEVIN GARNETT: No.  
  
  Q. A lot of people consider him obviously the best player in the game. Why would that be would you say?  
 KEVIN GARNETT: Kobe, he is, period. I wouldn't disagree with that. He makes his team go. He's their life, does multiple things in the game, and every time you speak of Kobe, you speak of excellence, you think of excellence. Class act, plays with a vengeance and tenaciousness, well-respected around the league. I can keep going and going.   
  
  Q. Given Kendrick's situation, how prepared are you to play some center tomorrow and kind of get your Bill Russell on?   
 KEVIN GARNETT: I'm prepared to do whatever Doc needs me to do tomorrow in order to win.   
  
  Q. How comfortable would you be playing that position?   
 KEVIN GARNETT: When it comes to basketball, it's not -- other than playing point guard, which I had to before, it's very rare that I'm uncomfortable out there on the floor.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT