NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: GRIZZLIES v SPURS
May 23, 2013
Marc Gasol
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  MARC GASOL:   Try to play aggressive, assertive.   Look for your shot doesn't mean‑‑ I don't understand what that means really.   I think we be more aggressive and spend extra time in the paint and go to the post a little more, yes, but looking for my shot just doesn't sound right.

Q.   Is the pick‑and‑roll defense trending where you want it to be?   Looking at the fourth quarter, how close is that to where you want to be?
MARC GASOL:   Yeah, especially on the double drag.   They did a good job of putting Matt Bonner first so the big would show or switch, and then the other big would screen on that switch guy, and then Manu would‑‑ because I'm playing back, trying to protect the other big, he would attack me or step back and send it to Matt Bonner.   They're a strong team.   They've seen everything you're going to throw at them.   You've just got to do it all the time.   You cannot give up.   Just because it doesn't work a couple times you cannot get away and start doing your own thing.   You've got to keep doing what you're supposed to. 

Q.   Talk about the way their team is constructed. 
MARC GASOL:   I have nothing but respect for that franchise.   From the get‑go, from the first time I learned how they do things in there, I thought they were an example for many reasons:   The way they carry themselves, the way they play basketball.   The way they do everything is an example for I think not just smaller teams but also for the B market teams as people like to call it.   I think we should learn a lot from their players and their franchise. 

Q.   When you watch Duncan over the years what have you liked about Duncan watching him play and just the way he handles himself and plays the game? 
MARC GASOL:   It's the way it should be.   It's the way it should be.   That's the way‑‑ I don't understand basketball any different way, the way he does is a great example.   Those guys and the guys that we just played, OKC are the guys that I grew up learning basketball.   That's the way they play and the way I like to play.   They just play basketball.   Everything else doesn't matter.

Q.   Do you ever talk to paw about how things might have turned out if you guys weren't traded for each other and you‑‑
MARC GASOL:   No, no, because we would never know.

Q.   Do you ever think about it? 
MARC GASOL:   We played on the national team together, and it worked out pretty well.   We got a bunch of medals.

Q.   But you staying at the Lakers and him staying here?
MARC GASOL:   I probably would not be the player that I am today if I didn't play in Memphis.   I would not be the player that I am today if I didn't play with these guys, with this coaching staff in this city.   Probably I would be somebody else.   I don't know who, but I would not be the player I am today without playing in Memphis.

Q.   Do you feel like ultimately that was a win‑win for you both?
MARC GASOL:   Yeah, they got what they wanted and we got something.   I think it worked out for both teams.   Everybody is pretty happy. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT