NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: GRIZZLIES v SPURS
May 19, 2013
Marc Gasol
Quincy Pondexter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 San Antonio 104
  Memphis 83 
   
 Q.   Marc, what was it that San Antonio did that made it so difficult for you guys to get post‑ups tonight?   
MARC GASOL:   Did a lot of things.   They front us, they pressured the ball, they pushed us out of the box.   They did a lot of things.   But especially defensively we weren't where we were supposed to be.   We were not communicating like we were supposed to against a team like San Antonio, and they made us pay every time.   Every time we made a mistake defensively, they made us pay.   There wasn't over‑help or no help or whatever it was.   They made you pay.   
   
 Q.   Marc, what leads to that over‑helping?   Is it just communication?   What leads to those situations?   
MARC GASOL:   Well, it starts breaking down, and first somebody makes a mistake, so somebody has to help.   That creates another help, and you see‑‑ we're scrambling.   When you're scrambling against a good team like that they're going to find an open guy because they have a lot of patience and they know where the shots are going to come from.   
   
 Q.   Quincy, you were the leading scorer tonight.   How big are points off the bench going to be in the rest of this series?   
QUINCY PONDEXTER:   We're going to have to do it collectively.   Every guy is going to have to step up for us.   I'll trade those points in for a win any day.   We just have to figure out a way to match their bench and play even better.   
   
 Q.   Marc, you haven't had much time to digest it, but are there any similarities between this game and your Game 1 loss to the Clippers and the Thunder?   
MARC GASOL:   The only similarity is that you're down 1‑0.   Everything else doesn't matter.   I mean, I can't even remember those games right now.   I don't know what‑‑ my brain has a lot of information right now, so I don't even remember those games, how it went, even though we played real bad, it's just one loss.   You don't get extra points for anything else.   We've got to regroup.   We've got to play a lot better.   We've got to be more engaged defensively than we were.   We have to communicate, pick up early, all the little things we normally do that we didn't do today and you've got to do it in 24 seconds because this team you cannot only play 16, 18 seconds because they're going to play until the last second of the shot clock and hit a good shot.  
   
 Q.   Why do you think your team is able to figure it out in Game 2 or 3 but you come out of the gate with miscues, turnovers‑‑  
MARC GASOL:   It happened.   It's basketball.   We've got to give them a lot of credit.   Great team.   We're playing a really good team with great players.   It's not always about you; we have a team in front of you that plays really good basketball and they know how to do it.   They've been doing it for a long, long time, and it's the reason why they always win.   It doesn't mean that we cannot beat them.   We've got to come back, regroup and do what we do and do the best we can.   
   
 Q.   Quincy, when you guys make the run there, you're hitting some shots, you get within six.   What was working there other than making some shots, and what happens coming out of that that they regained control?   
QUINCY PONDEXTER:   We were getting stops on the defensive end, moving the ball well and finding the open man.   I had a few, J.B., Marc was playing well, everyone was getting in a good rhythm.   It was just a matter of time before they kicked it back on.   It was really tough.   Real tough.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT