U.S. SENIOR WOMEN'S AMATEUR
September 14, 2017
Mary Ann Hayward
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. This is the first Canadian USGA champion since you now; tell me about how much pride you're feeling for Canada right now.
MARY ANN HAYWARD: I'm just so happy, so happy.  Yeah, I'm just so happy for Judith.  She's worked so hard.  We flew down and watched her when she made the final in New Jersey, and I'm just so happy for her.
Q. And you can speak to it, you've won a USGA championship before.  Tell me how that changes your career.
MARY ANN HAYWARD: It's a life changer.  It really is.  I'm just so, so happy for Judith, yeah.
Q. Talk about overall Canada and golf seem to be making a very serious run lately; what's the secret to the success of Canadian golf lately?
MARY ANN HAYWARD: I mean, they have a great national team program, and I mean, I think as far as the senior golfers, I think to be honest, I think we're just really helpful with each other.  Judith's game has come on so strongly the last few years, and it's really made me work harder and me play better, and Terrill, as well, and I think we all just make each other play better.
Q. How often do you guys play with each other?
MARY ANN HAYWARD: Oh, man, a lot.  We would play seven tournaments between May and now together, battling it out together, and practice rounds together.  Yeah.
Q. Where is dinner tonight?  Are you all going to go out and celebrate?
MARY ANN HAYWARD: I've got to fly out tonight and got to get to the airport right away, and I think Judith and man any are driving to Seattle.  Unfortunately -- we'll have a little celebration when we get in, though.
Q. She just had a really strong week.  It just seemed like she didn't leave many doors open for anybody.
MARY ANN HAYWARD: Yeah, she struggled at the Canadian Senior.  I know she was really disappointed on her play at the Canadian Senior in Newfoundland a couple weeks ago, and she was defending that for the first time.  Bad first round, and she was really disappointed.  She went down and qualified for the U.S. Mid-Am after that and played okay and qualified, and I think it gave her a little bit of confidence back.  I think she struggled with her iron play early in the week, but she was driving it well and putting it well, and you can sometimes mask the iron play by doing that, especially on this golf course.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT