PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY SEEPUERTORICO.COM
March 8, 2013
Fabian Gomez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Fabian, tell us about this terrific round of 64 you had this morning.   
FABIAN GOMEZ:   Well, it was good.   I played really well, steady golf.   I made several putts, which is important on this course where you have holes that are easy with the wind in your favor.   So you have to take advantage of that.   And if you're in your day, you have to take advantage and make your putts.  
   
 Q.   You played the putter extremely well on your first nine, starting onto 10.   I think you made 11 putts.   
FABIAN GOMEZ:   Yeah.   I made several birdies there.   Yesterday was not a good day, but I was able to play real well today.   I think I missed five greens yesterday.   So you have to fight hard when you have one of those days because that's the way golf works.   
   
 Q.   8‑under is your lowest on TOUR.   You shot 66 at the Honda Classic last week.   So you are finding some good rhythm.   
FABIAN GOMEZ:   Yeah.   I'm getting some good rhythm.   I'm striking the ball a lot better.   There are days when I'm unable to strike it well and I get lost.   But it's okay.   What matters is that you find that swing that can make swings a lot easier out there on the course.   
   
 Q.   What has the major difference last year in comparison to your first season on tour in 2011?  
FABIAN GOMEZ:   Well, I'm working a lot more on my swing.   It's hard for me at times, so I'm working a lot with my swing coach, Mariano Bartolome.   There are a few changes that we are making that make me feel a lot better when I make my swings, and I feel a lot more confident.  
   
 Q.   Which will be the key this weekend?  
FABIAN GOMEZ:   Just try to make as many birdies as possible.   There are many good players in this field and it's a course where you can go low.   So you have to work hard and play.   If it gets windy, that'll be better.   It will play a little more difficult.   If there's no wind, you will need too many birdies to win.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT