U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2018
Jacob Bergeron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I guess just start off with how you're feeling after going through what many would consider a crazy playoff scenario.
JACOB BERGERON: Yeah.  Fortunate is the first word that comes to mind, or blessed, or whatever you want to call it.  To wake up this morning knowing that you could be that one guy is exciting, but at the same time, it could be a little nerve-racking.  Just have to be able to handle those nerves and just treat it like it's any other round, just go take dead aim and go balls out, I guess.
Q. Was that your first thought when you stepped to the tee at 17, I'm just going for this?
JACOB BERGERON: Sorta, yeah.  As if it's any other round, playing a Monday match with the guys back home and just try to make birdie the best way I can.
Q. Both players were in good position after the tee; were you thinking birdie was going to win this hole?
JACOB BERGERON: Yeah, that's the first thing that comes into mind.  You certainly don't think 6 is going to win it.  Both of us were in good position, and I guess people don't realize how small of a target it is there.  I didn't know that tree really came into play until I hit it right behind it.  But yeah, I feel kind of bad for Peter.  He's a great player, and he has a bright future.  It stinks for him right now, but he'll be better from it, and hopefully we can make a little run here in match play.
Q. When you saw your lie here and you saw where he was and then obviously he got into trouble, were you kind of surprised that he was wayward there?
JACOB BERGERON: A little.  As good of a player as he is, I was expecting even after he dropped, he was going to stick it to like that and force me to make par to go back.  I don't know if it just might be -- little things like this might point to that this might be my week.  But you never know.  It's the U.S. Amateur at a great place, and anything is possible.
Q. Did that strange your strategy here?
JACOB BERGERON: Slightly, yeah.  There was a small chance I could try to go up and over the tree, but I didn't really have to based on the position.
Q. What would you likely have done had he knocked it to 20 feet or something like that with his second shot?  Would you have tried to go over or was there a way to get it under --
JACOB BERGERON: There wasn't much way to go under.  I guess hindsight is always a little bit 20/20, and if I go back and review the situation, there's probably more 50/50 chance I'd go over instead of -- I don't know, it's hard to answer that question.
Q. Luckily you don't have to worry about that anymore.
JACOB BERGERON: I'm very happy about that, too.
Q. How far was your second shot?
JACOB BERGERON: 224.
Q. A chunk flare --
JACOB BERGERON: It wasn't a good shot.  It was one of those flares -- it wasn't really chunked.  It was just stuck from the inside and wiped, whatever you want to call it.  It wasn't good.  Do you want to talk about the one on 17, though?
Q. What club did you hit on 17?
JACOB BERGERON: 4-iron, as well.
Q. Same club?
JACOB BERGERON: Yeah.  Love-hate relationship with that one.
Q. What was it like on the tee back there this morning?
JACOB BERGERON: On 17?  It was pretty quiet.  You almost had that sense that everybody was kind of holding their breath a little bit.  They didn't really know what to expect.  24 guys for one spot, who's ever heard of that?  But it's another peaceful morning at Pebble Beach, I guess, and it doesn't get any better.
Q. Was that one of the most stressful kind of situations in your golf career?
JACOB BERGERON: I would say it probably would be considered one of the more stressful situations.
Q. Final day of a regional and things like that --
JACOB BERGERON: Yeah, it's up there with that.  Stress is kind of something that we kind of generate in our own mind, this fight or flight sort of deal, so you feel like you're chasing a storm or something.  You're like right on the edge of that edge, so you've got all those emotions going.  That's the neat challenge of it is how do you handle that and try to keep everything as normal as possible.  Just hit a golf shot.  At the end of the day, that's all it is, a 4-iron from 220 to a back left flag.
Q. Do you hit that shot on the range much?
JACOB BERGERON: I did this morning.  It's usually not something I practice much at home.  There aren't many 4-irons that we need to hit.
Q. How many shots did you hit with the 4-iron on the range this morning?
JACOB BERGERON: Oh, God, a lot.  It was a solid bucket.
Q. How do you plan the rest of your day since this isn't a normal situation?
JACOB BERGERON: Probably go back, take a nap and eat a little breakfast and something and then come back and resume the 2:10 tee time.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT