NHL ENTRY DRAFT
July 8, 1995
Jay McKee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
It feels great.  You know, they have been talking to me and it is great for me. 
 
It is a great stepping stone too. 
 
It feels great, you know, they have been talking to me going in the top 10.  I went 14th so that is super.  That is great for me. 
 
It is great to be stepped into -- certainly a stepping stone.  They went through it themselves; now I am going through it:  I talked to him before.  I met him a couple of years ago.  Actually his brother is from my hometown. 
 
Yeah, it is a good to step into that.  
 
It could be.  Mike Wilson who went to Buffalo from Vancouver, I played with him last year.  I know some people already.  That is great. 
 
It is great.  It is a feeling like never before. 
 
Oh, yeah, it's a dream for me.  It is the next step, stepping stone to the NHL. 
 
Buffalo is great.  I am really pleased with Buffalo.  I played Niagra Falls.  They are right across the river. 
 
They have been eyeing me all season.  It is a great place, and now Mike Wilson who plays, he has been traded there.  I played with him last year; that makes it even better. 
 
This is a stepping stone, like I said before, and I got to work hard.  Hopefully, down the road I could be a Buffalo Sabres one day. 
 
I don't know a whole lot about the organization right now.  But all I know, pretty well, it is right down the road for me from Niagra Falls; that is super.  That is great. 
 
I talked to some guys during the season, but they are always there.  Just being right across the river, they are always there watching me.  I am sure they will always be there this year while I am  playing. 
 
Q.   Do you have a goal planned this year?
 
I'd like to go to training camp and have the best one I can.  Then go to Niagra Falls and I'd like to put up a lot of points this year. 
 
If I have a great great training camp and they keep me around, that would be super, but I would be content to go back to Niagra Falls for one or two years. 
 
It is just two and a half hours down the road.  That is two and a half to four hours; that is super. 
 
Q.   What is your size and weight?
 
Right now I am standing at 6 foot 2.  191 pounds. 
 
Yeah, I feel I definitely need to improve, I think, for the next step into the NHL, but I feel I am not far off. 
 
Definitely going to work real hard this summer and improvement will come with experience.  If I don't play with Buffalo this season Niagra Falls will be a really good season for myself and the team.  I can learn some more stuff hopefully.  This training camp will definitely be a new experience for me and I know I will have to improve on.  
 
I played with Mike Wilson and Sudbury last year.  I was traded to Niagara Falls in January, so played with him for a year and a half.  That is great. We got along really well. 
 
That is the best opportunity for me.  I'd rather go to a team with older defense than a young team with good defense. 
 
I am living in Kingston right now, 613-389-5931. 
 
It has been a really busy couple of days.  I really had no idea where I was going.  I sort of believed they have been talking about the top 10, but I am content with -- I heard between 10 and 15 before coming here today, so that is just super. 
 
They have me 9th.  That was with Europeans. That makes a little difference, couple of Europeans went before me. 
 
I think everybody will be excited.  It is going to be a great time when I get back home.  I didn't really talk to Buffalo a lot.  I knew they have been watching me all season, so it will be a surprise for some some people but it is just super. 
 
I sort of have my own style of play.  I have  grown up looking up to Chris CHILLY, I like WASHINGTON.  He is a great leader.  He can be a tough guy when he wants to be but you need him on the ice more than in the box; that is the kind of game I like to play. 
 
It is great to be a part of what they went through.  I am sure I will be talking with them a little more now.  He is probably happy to see -- I'd like to be . .  That will be great, to be a good friend of Terry's. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT