TMS MONTE CARLO
April 17, 2002
Nicolas Coutelot
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  It was a big match against a big player.  What prevented you from winning?  You were not far away. 

NICOLAS COUTELOT:  Yes, it was a matter of very few shots.  I had a break against me 
at 4-2 and I had three or four shots or points to come back to 4-3.  This game hurt me physically and also mentally, whereas he felt good after that.  If I had been able to come back at 4-3, it could have changed the match.  In the third set I came back again.  It was always very tight, although even there were a few breaks.  Even at the last game at 5-3, I tried a dropshot which was a winner.  I thought it fell on the line.   I had my chances.  His ranking proves he's a great player, and today he demonstrated on the court that he was improving as the match was progressing.  Myself, I enjoyed playing that match.  My attitude, my behavior on the court, I was a great fighter, I did what I had to do, I played my game.  I'm rather satisfied with my match, although I'm a bit disappointed that I lost.   But for the future, it's very good to play that kind of match against that kind of player. 

Q.  You received treatment? 

NICOLAS COUTELOT:  We all have some little problems with the back.  Tennis is not a sport adapted to the human body.  I had a little burst of pain, but immediately it went away.  He gave me a cream which warmed me up.  Also, an antiinflammatory.  And after three minutes, I didn't feel anything any more - nothing worrying. 

Q.  Had you seen him play in Davis Cup? 

NICOLAS COUTELOT:  No.  Unfortunately, I was in Africa in Casablanca, and over there it was not broadcasted.  It seems there were great matches, especially against Sebastien.  He played a super match.  I saw the matches in Australia where he was playing at a great level, and today I was able to fight him.  Therefore, it's almost like a victory for me to play such a match. 

Q.  What is impressive in his game?  The rhythm? 

NICOLAS COUTELOT:  No, nothing is impressive.  There are not many impressive players.  There is Roddick and people from Mars like Sampras and Co who are at the top.  But they are not really impressive.  He didn't let me 10 meters away from the ball at each shot.  What is impressive is that while the match is progressing, he's getting more and more powerful.  I personally thought he would crack up again.  In fact, I believe physically he was not very well at the end of the match. 

Q.  Even in the second set? 

NICOLAS COUTELOT:  He seemed to start to be a bit tired, but he has a quality of always being present  - even if he gives away a few points.  Everybody gives away a few points, but he's always present and he returns very well.  He plays the right game, he serves well, he plays exactly the right shot when it's necessary.  He won almost all the important points, and that made the difference.  Four or five times at least I was up Love-40 in the match and I wasn't able to break him.  It's, at the same time, frustrating for the one who's not breaking and encouraging for the one who is holding.  That made the difference mentally.  At 4-3 in the third set I made three errors with my forehand, and it was not a coincidence.  It's because he was very solid.  That is the difference between being Top 100 or Top 15.  You see every day people coming out of the quallies who win tournaments.  It happens every week.  The difference is just there.  But I wouldn't say "impressive."  I played a match against a human being. 

Q.  What is your program now? 

NICOLAS COUTELOT:  I'm going to give it some thought.  I can't go to Houston because of three or four places, so I will have to wait.  When in a final draw you have two or three players, three or four players before you, you have to wait until the last minute.  Otherwise, I'll play the quallies in Barcelona.  I will wait until Friday in Barcelona to leave if I can enter the draw at the last minute. So it will be either Houston, either Barcelona and afterwards the quallies in Munich or Mallorca. 

Q.  What about Hamburg and Rome? 

NICOLAS COUTELOT:  I won't do one of those two because I've been playing many tournaments in a row.  I have zero points to defend until the French Open, but you should not burn yourself out just before the French.  You have to try to manage that period of time when you have no points to defend and not play week after week, plus the traveling.  If I go to Houston, it's going to be quite tiring.  I can't arrive at the French Open being exhausted.  I am not going to miss both tournaments, but I'll play one of the qualifications of one of the two  - either in Rome or in Hamburg. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT