ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
February 14, 2015
Lahiru Thirimanne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Not a good start for Sri Lanka. You've been in New Zealand almost two months. What was it you would say that the team did wrong to lose the match today?    LAHIRU THIRIMANNE: I think we have given 20 to 30 extra runs when we bowled first. It was a good wicket, but 280, 290 would have been really terrible in this ground. But I thought we didn't field well, so that cost us.       Q. Can you give an idea given the format of this tournament how significant a setback is this for Sri Lanka, or is it not a setback at all?    LAHIRU THIRIMANNE: I think this is just one game, so we have to come back strongly. We have Afghanistan in the next match in Dunedin. I think boys are doing really well. I think sometimes this can happen, but it's just one match, so you have to come back strongly.       Q. Lasith was playing after six months, 84 runs. Do you think it'll take some more time for him and a couple of games to get back to his usual self?    LAHIRU THIRIMANNE: Yeah, I don't think this is Lasith's best bowling effort. We believe he'll come back strongly in the next few matches, but I think he bowled really well in the death overs. That's a positive for us, so hopefully he'll be back with good performances.       Q. You spoke about the poor fielding effort today. How concerned are you, and what can the team do to improve on this discipline?    LAHIRU THIRIMANNE: I think we have to take the extra effort to ‑‑ I think as a team we have to put that extra effort because sometimes crucial catches might cost end of the game. As a team we have to put our heads down and do the extra work.       Q. Lahiru, how much did the conditions of the cold and the bit of drizzle have an effect on the fielding, if at all?    LAHIRU THIRIMANNE: I don't think it ‑‑ because we have been playing here two months now, so we are used to these conditions. I don't think it was a problem.       Q. Lahiru, were you surprised with the amount of help there was for the spinners there, and why didn't Rangana bowl his full 10 overs given the impact he had in the innings?    LAHIRU THIRIMANNE: I think he bowled eight overs, roundabout 40th over. After the 40th over we thought Corey Anderson was there, so he might clear the boundary easily because he ran the board, left spin, so that's why we bowled fastbowlers.       Q. You guys were well paced at about 120/1, just taking Boult for 15 off his two previous overs, McCullum stuck with him, and is that when the game virtually disappeared for you guys?    LAHIRU THIRIMANNE: Yeah, I think myself and Kumar batted like on the board. So at that moment the game was nicely set for us, so I think my wicket and Kumar's wicket that cost us the game. So he bowled brilliantly, I think, that spell, so credit goes to him.       Q. What led you to keep (inaudible) away from the bowling attack while McCullum was in the middle?    LAHIRU THIRIMANNE: I think we had a plan for the McCullum, I think, because he is always trying to step out and play the fast bowlers. So that's why we bowled Angelo and Nuwan up front, not giving him pace to hit a long shot, so that's why Suranga bowled after 15 overs.       Q. Lahiru, today's defeat was I think the fifth against New Zealand. What sort of confidence do you have on your team? Will it bring your morale down?    LAHIRU THIRIMANNE: Like I said earlier, it's just one game for the World Cup, in the World Cup. We can't think about this game. We can't think about the past. We have to move on. I think we have Afghanistan next match and Bangladesh in Melbourne, so hopefully we can do much better in these two games and come back strongly.       Q. (Inaudible.)    LAHIRU THIRIMANNE: I think you should ask from the selectors that question, but I'm happy the opening innings because that set me ‑‑ that gives me time to settle down and score big innings, but unfortunately I couldn't make that 60. Very disappointed about that. But very happy about my role.       Q. How unsettling is it going top of the order and then coming down, going top of the order again?    LAHIRU THIRIMANNE: I think I haven't been used to these situations now in quite a while, since I've been playing up to No.8, I guess, and now I've been used to this situation.       Q. You've played a lot of cricket against New Zealand in the last few weeks. There's a strong feeling in this country that New Zealand can do very well in the World Cup. You've had a really good look at them in different conditions, different situations. Can you give your assessment of this New Zealand team and how they're playing and their prospects right now?    LAHIRU THIRIMANNE: Yeah, I think they are one of the favorites in this World Cup, but any team have the chance to do well in this tournament. That's how the conditions and the setup in New Zealand and Australia are, so I think they have a good side, very balanced side. I think it might be ‑‑ they have a couple of good matches coming up, so we'll see how it goes.       Q. What do you think that you need to sort of really improve or Sri Lanka needs to improve for the next rest of the tournament?    LAHIRU THIRIMANNE: I think bowling, probably bowling and fielding. Those two has to improve for the next game.
     

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT