MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2013
Gonzalo Fernandez Castano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about your fourth round at the Masters here?  
GONZALO FERNANDEZ‑CASTANO:   Well, it has been a bit of ups and downs.   I started well with a birdie, then made three bogeys.   The front nine was a little tricky this morning, which was blustering a bit, and also the showers we had.   And then I fought back with a couple of birdies on the back nine, but I had two unfortunate bogeys to close the round.   But I'm still in good position for the weekend, relying a lot on my long game, which is pretty steady at the moment, and hopefully I can post a good round tomorrow and be in contention Sunday.  
   
 Q.   I heard you pulled one left or pushed one right on No.9?  
GONZALO FERNANDEZ‑CASTANO:   I've done a bit of everything.   Yeah, I pulled my tee shot left.   I have to say I got pretty lucky because it went a long way down the‑‑ I mean, down the rough, which is not a bad thing, but unfortunately I tried to play what I thought was a smart shot at the time, just missed the green on the right side.   But it didn't work, and I finished with a bogey.  
   
 Q.   Did the conditions or your start change your strategy?   Were you less aggressive on the front or the back nine?  
GONZALO FERNANDEZ‑CASTANO:   Not really.   This is one of those courses that you just need to wait and be patient.   There's holes where you can be aggressive, there's some holes where you just have to play to the middle of the green and get away with a par.   I think I've done well.   Unfortunately around the greens I haven't been very sharp or as sharp as I normally am.   My putting was better, so as I said, if I keep striking the ball the way I've been doing, hopefully I can be there on Sunday.  
   
 Q.   Your tee shot on 18 was one of the better ones we've seen here.   
GONZALO FERNANDEZ‑CASTANO:   I know, I spoiled it with a (expletive deleted) 8‑iron.  
   
 Q.   Was it a poor club choice?  
GONZALO FERNANDEZ‑CASTANO:   No, I just didn't get‑‑ I'm not going to say in between clubs, but just couldn't really feel the wind down there, and I hit what I thought was going to be a good 8‑iron, and I have to say it was only two yards to be perfect.   Unfortunately I didn't get to the top of the ridge, came down, and then I hit a poor chip and a poor putt.   As I said, those things happen on this course.   You just need to accept it and try to get on with it.   
Being the 18th hole it's always more disappointing because there's not another hole to recover from the bogey, but just lunch will be a little bit bitter, that's all.  
   
 Q.   What do you say about the pins out there?   Are they very difficult?  
GONZALO FERNANDEZ‑CASTANO:   They're always difficult.   I think they're always difficult.   I've never seen an easy pin on this course.   But yeah, they're tricky.   They're tricky.   But as I said, you just have to be patient.   You have to know where to‑‑ where you can be aggressive, where you have to play a little bit more conservative, and that's probably the magic about this course.  
   
 Q.   What's the difference between last year for you here and this year for you here?   
GONZALO FERNANDEZ‑CASTANO:   Well, I think last year was kind of a learning tournament for me.   I mean, first Masters I guess is the same for everybody.   You're like a little boy when they go to Disney World.   That's probably the feeling I had last year, just trying to enjoy it because I didn't know if it was going to be my first or last, and now that I'm here, I think I've also improved as a player.   I'm more mature.   I've learned a bit from last year, as well, and I'm hitting the ball well, which is a very important thing if you want to score on this course.   
I don't know, I think I'm pretty happy about my chances this weekend.   If I manage to hole some putts tomorrow, I think it could be good.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT