BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 26, 2009
Gonzalo Fernandez Castano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. That's being a bit tough on yourself, saying you're a loser, I think?  
 GONZALO FERNANDEZ-CASTANO: Well, third playoff in the last three weeks or four weeks; this one hurt. I have to say, this one hurt. But I mean, it's difficult, especially when you are playing against two other players in the playoff. When it's a three-man playoff, I mean, that makes it a bit more difficult. But, I mean, I guess that's golf. That's golf.   
 I have a feeling that I dropped a few shots out there that cost me the tournament, but I'm sure that everybody else had the same problem. Finishing second again, yeah, that means I'm playing well, but of course, you want to win. You want to win and you are here to win. I'm getting closer and hopefully I'll do it soon, and if I don't, I can't consolate myself looking at the bank account I guess.   
  
  Q. What happened with your second in the playoff? It seemed to just kick on and keep going.   
 GONZALO FERNANDEZ-CASTANO: To tell you the truth, I didn't really catch it. When it's so windy, you really need to get the whole thing if you want to spin it a bit, and I didn't quite catch it. Even though I thought it was going to be a good shot and I thought it was going to stay on the green; because it wasn't far away, it was only six metres from the pin, but it's a big difference from being on the fringe or being on the putting surface.   
 Thongchai and Kang hit two great shots and I told my caddie, this is a bit of Russian roulette, you have two shots -- and the first put it in there. The first one was fine, but Thongchai holed the winning putt. But I'm very happy with him, he's a very nice guy. We played together the first couple of rounds and he deserved it. So, good for him.  
  
  Q. So move on, this is finished. Next week, let's go and win the Spanish Open.   
 GONZALO FERNANDEZ-CASTANO: That will help. That will help. The only thing that can help me now is probably, as I said, look at the money and look at the World Ranking. That's the only thing that can help me at this time. It's a bit painful. Of course, I've won four times here, but I want to win more, and you never get enough of it. Three seconds in a row is not the best. But, I mean, that's golf.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT