BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 23, 2009
Gonzalo Fernandez Castano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Well, tell us about this wish that is being granted at the moment, just the consistency.   
 GONZALO FERNANDEZ-CASTANO: Well, I'm a little bit surprised I have to say. The last couple of weeks have been great, and, well, coming out here and shooting 65 in the first round, you can't ask for any better.   
 We have been very, very lucky with the weather Todd. It's been absolutely fantastic, no wind at all. Even though the little wind there was, it was blowing the other way around, so it makes the course completely different to what we have been playing in the practice rounds.   
 Still, we can see it's been an easy day compared to the previous two rounds we've played here, but very happy with the result of course, 65. Fantastic way to start the tournament and hopefully we'll keep it going.  
  
  Q. Why surprised? That suggests you'll have a bad round because they do come eventually.   
 GONZALO FERNANDEZ-CASTANO: I'm not expecting a bad round. Sooner or later it will come. This game is like that. Sometimes you have a feeling like you are on top of the mountain and you drop. That's golf.   
 I'm just very happy with the way I'm handling myself on the course. My caddie is helping me a lot, too. I'm just thinking one shot at a time and enjoying a solid moment. When you are playing well, you are really happy with what you are doing, and that's what's going on right now.   
  
  Q. I take it was good to play alongside Thongchai Jaidee, who shot almost as good a score as yourself, and Paul McGinley was good until the last stages.   
 GONZALO FERNANDEZ-CASTANO: It's been a good match. It's been a good match. Unfortunately Paul had not such a good final holes, but Thongchai and I, we played solid golf. It's fun, it's always fun playing with Thongchai, I like him a lot. Hopefully we will go out tomorrow and repeat the story.  
  
  Q. I know you said the weather has been good for the first round, but how difficult is the course? The rough is up more than last year.   
 GONZALO FERNANDEZ-CASTANO: The rough, from what I've heard, I didn't play last year but apparently it's higher. It still not as bad as we used to play on Tour and normal Tour standards, but it's a good challenge. It's a good course, even though fairways are not very wide, but with no rough or little rough as we are doing, still, you have to be on the fairway to be able to attack those flags, and greens are rolling good. Well, it is not very windy; I think the results can be low as they were last year but you never know. These things can change like that.   
 So we have seen good rounds today, so hopefully the spectators are enjoying watching birdies and eagles, which is what it's all about.   
  
  Q. The weather is likely to change it seems, so is it all the more important to post a good first round score like that?  
 GONZALO FERNANDEZ-CASTANO: It's all good to start. It's always important to start with a good round. But yeah, I guess maybe it's more important, hopefully tomorrow morning it's not too bad and we can keep making birdies.   
 But still, it's 54 holes to go, so it's still a long way.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT