WIMBLEDON
June 24, 2004
Wesley Moodie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Was that one of the most frustrating matches you've ever played?  
 
WESLEY MOODIE:  Well, I mean, I came into the match and I wasn't really expecting too much.  I've been injured.  I had some trouble with my left knee.  And so I wasn't really expecting to be able to finish the match anyway.  So when I got out there, I wasn't really feeling the pain too much.  Next thing I knew, I was two sets all.  It was much better than I expected. So, yeah, I mean, I don't think it was as frustrating as it was for him. 
 
Q.  So the breaks actually helped you, do you think?
 
WESLEY MOODIE:  Yes.  I mean, certainly on the first day, I mean, I was kind of motivated to try and win that fourth set so I could come out and start fresh on the following day, and also to give my knee a bit of a break.  I was also a little bit tired.  I hadn't really been able to do too much in the last couple weeks.  But unfortunately I came out the next day and lost my serve.  That was about it, I guess.  It was an uphill battle today. 
 
Q.  Had you ever played a game that spanned four days before?
 
WESLEY MOODIE:  No, I haven't.  I played once in Davis Cup.  I was on matchpoint on my serve.  Had to come back the next day to play one point.  But never four days.  
 
Q.  Do you have it in you to go beyond the second round or third round? 
 
WESLEY MOODIE:  Well, certainly.  I mean, I'm not playing -- I don't come to Wimbledon to try and lose in the first, second or third round.  I mean, I wasn't nearly as prepared this year as I'd like to be.  And certainly in the next couple years I think this is a tournament that I can really do well in.  
 
Q.  Okay.  How have you been doing?
 
WESLEY MOODIE:  This year, so far?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
WESLEY MOODIE:  Yeah, I mean, I started the year off I guess ranked about 80 and lost a couple close matches in the States that maybe I shouldn't have lost.  You know, couple things didn't go my way.  But, I mean, that always happens.  You can't expect to win all the close matches you play.  But I feel like I've been playing well overall.  But, you know, still think I can do a bit better this year. 
 
Q.  Have you won any major titles?
 
WESLEY MOODIE:  No, no. 
 
Q.  Okay.  Any improvement with your finances?  The last time we talked with you, you had been having sponsor problems? 
 
WESLEY MOODIE:  Yeah, I mean, if you play at the top level of tennis, the prize money is pretty good.  And, you know, so, no, no complaints there, I guess. 
 
Q.  How many South Africans in this Wimbledon? 
 
WESLEY MOODIE:  There's, well, two in the main draw for singles, myself and Ferreira, and a couple of doubles players.  There must be at least five or six in the doubles. 
 
Q.  Are you buddies with them? 
 
WESLEY MOODIE:  Yeah, yeah.  We all pretty good friends, yeah.  
 
Q.  When did you first learn this sport? 
 
WESLEY MOODIE:  I started playing when I was about five or six years old.  Just watched a bit of tennis on TV and got interested that way.  Started hitting a lot of balls against the wall, against our garage.  
 
Q.  How is tennis presently doing in South Africa? 
 
WESLEY MOODIE:  There's a lot of people working pretty hard to bring back international tournaments because we don't have too many -- actually, we don't have any at the moment.  But, hopefully, next year we're gonna get some back.  And, you know, they're trying  really hard.  The media has taken a bigger interest in the sport.  There's more coverage, so... 
 
Q.  Do you foresee any African currently in the WTA or ATP...
 
WESLEY MOODIE:  In the WTA?  
 
Q.  Or the men's, one winning Wimbledon any time soon? 
 
WESLEY MOODIE:  Well, I mean... 
 
Q.  In terms of any African. 
 
WESLEY MOODIE:  I'd have to say no, in the next couple of years.  Just simply because tennis, I mean, you have to develop the sport first.  I mean, you can't take a 16-year-old, coach him for two years and expect him to win Wimbledon.  You've got to take the guys when they're five or six years old, maybe 10, 15 years later.  That's when they can win big tournaments.  So hopefully in the next 10 years, I would say yes.  Everyone would like someone. 
 
Q.  Ten years?
 
WESLEY MOODIE:  Well, I don't know.  I'm talking about South Africa.  I mean, I don't know -- I mean, I don't know -- I mean, I spend most of my time internationally.  I don't really go home that much.  But, well, maybe five years; I don't know.  But certainly, I mean, you have to start coaching them from a young age.  
 
Q.  Where are you based?
 
WESLEY MOODIE:  I'm here in London.  But I go home every November, December.  But, I mean, that's why people are trying to put money back into the sport, so we can create opportunities for everyone to come through and have a fair chance at doing well.  
 
Q.  Who do you most admire in sport? 
 
WESLEY MOODIE:  In sports in general?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
WESLEY MOODIE:  That's a difficult question.  I guess anyone who's at the top of their sport.  I mean, it's extremely tough to make it as a professional sportsman.  
 
Q.  In tennis.  Anyone in tennis?
 
WESLEY MOODIE:  In tennis, I wouldn't say I really admire anyone.  I mean, you've got to appreciate the guys who do well.  I mean, I can't say I have an idol, because these are the guys I have to beat, you know (smiling). 
 
Q.  How about in politics?  Anyone in politics? 
 
WESLEY MOODIE:  I mean, obviously, I mean, as far as South Africa, Nelson Mandela is obviously someone you have to look up to.  The turnaround that South Africa has made in the last couple years, it's been quite phenomenal.  And, you know, hopefully our country can keep heading in the right direction.  
 
Q.  Do you play doubles? 
 
WESLEY MOODIE:  I do.  I do when I can, yes.  
 
Q.  Did you at any stage yesterday think you were going to play the match? 
 
WESLEY MOODIE:  Yeah, I mean, around 2 or 3, it started to brighten up a bit.  And I was, yeah, I was hoping we'd get on at some stage. 
 
Q.  Did you speak to Coria at all?
 
WESLEY MOODIE:  No, I didn't.  No.  
 
Q.  It looked like he slipped on Tuesday afternoon.  I mean, you could look at it either way.  You could look at it in terms of he was only two points away from winning, or the match shouldn't have, you know, continued to the extent where it was dangerous, players slipping.  What do you think about that?
 
WESLEY MOODIE:  Yeah, I mean, actually in the last game, before the -- I think the point before, I mean, I did notice it was quite slippery.  I guess it started drizzling and the court gets extremely slippery very quickly.  So, I mean, it was very dangerous.  Especially if you have to change direction, anything can happen, pull a muscle.  And, I mean, it's unfortunate to come back the next day.  
 
Q.  Or two days later. 
 
WESLEY MOODIE:  Yeah, we started Monday, wasn't it?   But, yeah, I mean, you have to do it.  I mean, because you can't risk it.  
 
Q.  That Davis Cup match you said where you were on matchpoint and had to come back the next day, did you win?
 
WESLEY MOODIE:  Yes, I won in one point. 
 
Q.  One point.  So how did you feel today?  I mean, it was all over in two minutes.  Was that a bit of a letdown?
 
WESLEY MOODIE:  I mean, obviously, I mean, I was -- it's going to be extremely tough for me to come back with two points, I mean, with him serving.  But, I mean, I hit a good first return and unfortunately missed the next forehand a bit long.  And then 40-30, yeah, I mean, it's tough.  I mean, I guess he played well.  It's tough to focus just on five seconds, you can be off the court. 
 
Q.  So the whole buildup all day, Tuesday night, Wednesday, Wednesday night, it all amounts to two minutes?
 
WESLEY MOODIE:  I mean, it's a bit mentally tiring.  I sat around the whole day yesterday, I mean, just being kind of -- okay, I mean, I wasn't really getting -- I wasn't sure when we were going to go on, eating, stretching or kind of always being ready to maybe go on in the next hour.  And to do that from maybe, say, 12 o'clock until 7 o'clock at night, it's pretty tiring, especially when you, I mean, you want to get out there and finish it.  
 
Q.  Do you see yourself as a Grand Slam winner in waiting? 
 
WESLEY MOODIE:  Yeah.  I mean, I hope so.  I mean, I think I've got the talent.  If I put enough hours, or if I get some good practice and really concentrate hard, focus on the training, I think I will.  I mean, I think that quite a few guys have a chance. 
 
Q.  What is your strengths and weaknesses? 
 
WESLEY MOODIE:  My strength is probably my serve.  I mean, I'm an aggressive player, try to come to the net.  Keep the points short, yeah.  
 
Q.  Aside from tennis, what else do you enjoy?
 
WESLEY MOODIE:  I enjoy music.  I play a little bit of guitar.  I love spending time at the beach in my hometown back in South Africa.  So, yeah... 
 
Q.  Are you superstitious about anything? 
 
WESLEY MOODIE:  No, no, not really.  Not really, no.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT