MLB WINTER MEETINGS
December 11, 2018
Dave Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Any more clarity from the conversations yesterday about any sort of direction that you guys have had in conversations with getting rid of some of your outfielders and perhaps bringing in another arm?  
DAVE ROBERTS: I can't sit here and say we're closer on any deal.  Obviously we have an excess in starting pitching.  Outfielders, quality.  And some depth.   
So I think that with our guys, just talking through kicking the tires on opportunities and seeing what makes sense.  So ultimately we're going to try to make our club better.   
And I think the challenge is to look at a pretty good ballclub and to feel that you need to tweak it a little bit.   
And so I think that we're really just cognizant of trying to acquire the right player that makes sense for our club, our culture, and it's difficult.   
 Q.  How much do you think is predicated on whether Harper signs someplace to see what other moves can be made and the unlikeliness that's going to happen this week?  
DAVE ROBERTS: Right.  There's some of that.  But I still think that there's a process that our guys go through and not to -- it's a luxury when you're in a situation where you have a lot of good players already on your 40-man roster that you don't need to chase a certain player, overpay.  So what he decides to do or where he decides to go is going to influence the market.   
But I think for us, we're pretty -- kind of have a pretty clear vision on the guys we're targeting, how we want to go about it.   
 Q.  Who are those guys?  
DAVE ROBERTS: They're out there.  A couple free agents, a couple of pitchers, couple of position players.  Maybe a catcher.   
 Q.  Any [inaudible] that Bellinger would be in the park this week, getting some work in?  What would you like to see him accomplish this offseason, kind of where he was in '17?  
DAVE ROBERTS: So Cody is actually at the ballpark this week.  Seager is in town as well.  Some other guys at the ballpark, working with Robert Van Scoyoc, a couple of our other hitting guys.  Brant Brown.  I think for Cody, it was a tough year.  It was a grind for him with his slow start.  But if you look at the surface line, it wasn't bad.   
And now you kind of introduce the defense and the versatility for a second year player, still pretty good.   
To your question, I think if you look at the way that he fared against left-handed pitching this year was a little surprising to all of us, and Cody was disappointed in that.  Just making the adjustment.   
I don't think he was synced up all year with his mechanics.  There were spurts where he was really good, but just looking at the overall production speaks to how talented he is.   
So there's a mechanical piece.  There's an approach piece.  I think with two strikes, using the whole field.  I think when he did that he was better.  But he's aware of all that.   
 Q.  You have a lot of starting pitchers and what's the role going to be towards Kenta, Ross and Julio, is there going to be some competition in Spring Training?  
DAVE ROBERTS: Well, there's always going to be competition, I think that's good.  And I think that the players would expect that.   
Kenta is going to start.  We expect Ross to compete for a starting job.  He was an all-star last year.  And there were some things late with health that checked him up a little bit.  But he had a heck of a year.   
So he's going to get opportunities to build on the innings pitched from last year.  With Julio, there's going to be an innings limit.  And what that number is, we don't know yet.  But we've got to figure out how to kind of go about ramping him up for the season.   
But ultimately we see Julio as a Major League starter, yeah.   
 Q.  Kershaw didn't sign an extension; he spoke a little bit about his desire to kind of want to tap back into velocity, what do you know about what work that entails right now and how hopeful are you that he can get a little bit more of his velocity back?  
DAVE ROBERTS: Very hopeful.  I think that if anyone sets their mind to something that they want to sort of tap back into, it's Clayton.  He's healthy.  So I don't think -- it's not a structural type thing.  It's kind of a body biodynamic kind of situation.  Who he's doing it with, it's our medical staff, Brandon McDaniels, strength and conditioning guy, and outside of that I really don't know.   
But if you look back at what Clayton did this year, still pretty good.  And there was a couple mistakes with the slider, the fastball, but he can still pitch when he needs to pitch.  But I do expect an uptick in velocity next year.   
 Q.  What do you know about making precedence for that, any pitchers that have been able to gain velocity in that stage of their careers?  
DAVE ROBERTS: Verlander, for one.  I don't think we're going to see 97 out of Clayton.  But there's guys that find that uptick in velocity.   
And there's so much data now, body movement and things and how you could be kind of out of whack with your mechanics that you can kind of work on and work through, that it's in there.   
The number one thing for me his work ethic, his desire, and he's healthy.   
 Q.  You mentioned he's very successful.  Obviously how necessary is it to get the velocity back?  
DAVE ROBERTS: It's just going to increase his margin.  And I think that Clayton feels that there's more in there.  We do, medically.  And so it's just going to make him that much better and the trust to execute a fastball glove-side.  I think that confidence that he can touch 92, 93 consistently, it's going to make it that much tougher -- make the slider that much better, too.  He's pretty set he wants to see that number tick up.   
 Q.  Do you think this could be the impetus for him to finally get that changeup together, trying to throw it for 10 years?  
DAVE ROBERTS: I don't think so, Tim, because I think the changeup is a feel pitch.  And as good as Clayton is, as great as he is, that's something that he just doesn't have the comfort level and trust yet.  Could that change?  Possibly.  But I think if you've seen -- you saw last year a little bit where there was a slower slider that was different from the fastball velocity of the typical slider that essentially acted as a change with the depth.   
So when it's 87-ish and fastball plays at 92, there's a variance in velocity.  But I think the change is probably not going to be -- it's a couple times a game, maybe.   
 Q.  [Inaudible] disappeared after he came back from the [inaudible], was that just a physical thing that was difficult to execute that pitch?  
DAVE ROBERTS: I think it's one of those things -- in talking to Clayton I don't think it was necessarily physical.  It's more of the feel of he felt at times you're slowing your hand down.  And the hand speed deception to get it to be 87 versus 90, he was tinkering a little bit with the grip.   
But for me he's always trying to master something.  But with the curveball, I think there was an uptick in the curveball usage this year, acts again as a change in velocity.  And the variance in speeds with the slider.   
 Q.  You lost your general manager who was so instrumental in helping you build two pennant-winning teams to your arch rival.  The first part of the question was when did you learn that Farhan would be the vice president of baseball ops?  
DAVE ROBERTS: First reaction was -- my honest reaction -- no, I was happy for him.  I am happy for him.  It's a great opportunity.  It's a great rivalry.  It's a great city.   
And so for him to have connections to the Bay Area, to be able to put his footprint on an organization, I think it's great for him.  It's going to be a good challenge.  We're missing -- I'm losing a friend, a colleague, a teammate.   
So Farhan taught me a ton.  And so when you're talking about old school, new school, analytics, eye test, all that stuff, we had a lot of debates.  So the Giants are certainly better for it.  But that's a big hole for us to fill.   
 Q.  And you kind of alluded to the second part of the question.  I think that there's been some expectations that Farhan and Bochy may not see eye to eye on all things because of that sort of debate that you're talking about.  You obviously know both men very well.  You've worked for both, under both, what's your thought about that dynamic and any predictions going forward on that?  
DAVE ROBERTS: I think the only thing that -- the only reason they won't see eye to eye is the height discrepancy.  (Laughter).  Not many people see eye to eye with Boch.   
But, no, honestly, they've obviously connected.  I don't see that as a problem.  And I think that's an unfair judgment on Farhan.   
You talk to players that spent a lot of time with him, that he's earned that trust, and talking about performing and weaknesses versus strengths and things like that.   
So there's certainly an analytic background.  But there's a baseball player trying to appreciate how hard this game is to play in there, too.   
 Q.  You spent the majority of your Big League career as a player and as a coach in the NL West.  As you look forward to 2019, can you assess how this division looks like to you right now?  
DAVE ROBERTS: It's a competitive division.  I think that I'm biased, I guess, because I spent a lot of time in the West.  And I think that we don't get that fair shake as far as the quality of teams and the parity.   
San Diego's really coming.  They've got, many people say, the best system in baseball.  Very good position player group.  Arizona, their position player group, they can pitch.  They've got some holes to fill.  But I think Torre's done a tremendous job with that team.   
Colorado, they can really pitch.  And I think that people talk about their offense, but they can pitch.  And they're tough.  They're deep.  They've got some really good, young arms.  And the Giants are kind of -- they're a rival to us.  They give us fits.  And it's going to be interesting to see what direction and how they kind of go about things with Farhan.   
But when you've got Buster Posey and Madison Bumgarner, they've got some good ingredients.  And Brandon Crawford is a guy I've always really liked watching.  And then you've got the Dodgers, who I see at the top again.   
 Q.  The team is still looking for a catcher but what's going to be the expectation or pressure on Austin?  
DAVE ROBERTS: I don't think there's any more pressure that we can or I can put on Austin.  I think that he's so competitive and expects a lot of himself.   
And he had a bad year offensively.  And he knows it.  And he's going to be considerably better this year.  So him behind the plate, blocking, receiving, relationship with the pitchers, is next level, is elite.  So I expect him to come back ready to compete.  But I trust Austin, and he's a winning player for me.   
 Q.  What division is that piece, to pair with him or to take the lion's share?  
DAVE ROBERTS: I think for us we don't have to make that decision right now.  I think that obviously if you look at what's out there, there's a couple different directions you could go, we could go.  And until we make that decision, right now we feel comfortable with Austin.  And do we have to have somebody to pair with him, absolutely.   
But if you look at the guys coming, Will Smith is going to be a fun player to watch and develop.  Caper, Ruiz is another one on the catching front.  But right now, yeah, we're looking to kind of complement Austin, yeah.   
 Q.  Second base hasn't been mentioned as a position of need.  Do you see that because of Hernandez and Taylor being able to play there, and also do you feel comfortable with Muncy playing second base next year?  
DAVE ROBERTS: We do.  I think we have some very good options at second base.  Kike is a plus defender at second base.  We like Taylor over there.  The versatility with both of those guys.   
And also I trust Max over there at second base.  So can I see him being there every day, probably not.  But we expect Max to get a ton of at-bats next year and at first base and at second base.   
 Q.  Does this freeze make Cody's splits less problematic for you?  
DAVE ROBERTS: I think they do.  David is a guy -- we all know David and like the professional at-bat and against left-handed pitching, really like him in the batter's box.   
But the goal is to have Cody out there every day.  Just the way he can defend and impact the game with his legs, with the bat.  So the goal is to have him be out there and handle lefties and righties.   
 Q.  You're giving up on (indiscernible)?  
DAVE ROBERTS: We've always got to keep our -- be open to things.  But to try stay ahead of the curve, so opener doesn't get us, so we're not hitting for guys in the second hit of the game.   
 Q.  Given the background of your new hitting coach, what does it say about the rate of change the fact that these guys are going from kind of figures in the background to guys now wearing a Big League uniform?  
DAVE ROBERTS: I think the change is the demographic of the player.  So the position player group, this is me speaking off the cuff, is a lot younger.  I don't know the number.   
So now when you've got these young players, someone's got to be able to connect with them.  And so Robert, Browny, Aaron Bates, we have guys that we feel very confident in their content and their ability to connect with young players.   
So when you're looking at Justin Turner, who now sort of becomes an outlier on Major League rosters, and so when you've got the 20-somethings, and so we have guys that we feel very comfortable reaching out and connecting with Corey Seager, Cody Bellinger, Max Muncy, Kike, whoever.   
 Q.  I believe you crossed paths with Dino Ebel during your time?  
DAVE ROBERTS: I have.   
 Q.  What can you tell us about him, and what you think he brings to the Dodgers?  
DAVE ROBERTS: So Dino is one of the best third base if not the best third base coaches in the game.  Working with Scioscia, what he's done with infielders, and he's done some outfield with the Angels, base running, they've been one of the better base-running teams in the last decade.  So his experience, his preparedness, and his ability to connect with players and teach them.   
So we lost a good coach in Chris Woodward, but to have a guy that's been in that box for many years and done well and has taught infielders how to catch the baseball and he's very well versed, a person who is loyal and was a Dodger.   
So I know he's thrilled to be back in Dodger blue.  So he had a good run in Anaheim, but he's excited to be -- I'm going to say something, but it might be taken on the wrong way -- be back with the Dodgers.  I gotta watch myself these days.   
 Q.  You're a big believer in the shift.  Use it well, works well for you, number one, but speaking philosophically, you played the game earlier before analytics became so big.  Is baseball a better game with the shift or without it?  
DAVE ROBERTS: You're going to try to get me in trouble with the Commissioner?  In my opinion, I think that -- I would say just kind of in a vacuum without the shift.   
But I still believe the players should be able to -- it should be important enough to get on base to be able to manipulate the bat and hit the ball the other way or to lay a bunt down.   
So I will say as far as offensively, philosophically, for us, this year, we're going to get better at that.   
When you see one player on the left side of the infield and you're down a run, we're going to challenge our guys to find a way to hit it over there.   
But you've got to do that by practicing.  So it's going to be a priority for us to get better at that.   
 Q.  Wanted to follow up on the hitting coach question.  Andrew made the point recently about how he feels that the advancements on the run prevention side have dwarfed the advancements on the run creation side over the last five years or so.  He feels maybe there's room to catch up there.  Do you think there's some room there for more creative thinking or doing things differently on the hitting side, whether it's bringing in a coach like Robert or [inaudible]?  
DAVE ROBERTS: I think that that's fair, but I just believe that the pitcher dictates.  So when you have weaknesses, potentially, that can be exploited.  The pitcher has every opportunity to exploit the hitter's weakness.  Low-hanging fruit for the hitter, I think you just gotta be a commitment to -- hitters are very creatures of habit.  Whether it's staying in the same spot in the batter's box, whether it's not changing your approach, you know, as far as you feel you're giving up something if you're not trying to hit a homer.   
So I think it's more of a philosophical commitment mentally, psychologically for the hitter.  I think that's the opportunity.  But as far as the data, yeah, on the hitting side you see what pitchers are doing and tendencies, but ultimately you can't predict what they're going to do.   
 Q.  Where do you stand on the Alex Wood change [inaudible] where he fits as far as starting in the bullpen?  
DAVE ROBERTS: We see Alex as a starter.  And I'm all for what he feels comfortable doing.  You look at two years ago, he had a tremendous year and went away from the wind-up.   
And I think he just wasn't -- in talking to Alex, wasn't really synced up mechanically with his delivery all year.  So going back and -- to the wind-up, I think that if he feels good about it, I know Rick Honeycutt feels good about it.  So I'm in on that.  But still there's going to be times that he's going to have to still go from a stretch.   
So when he does go for the wind-up, I think it's great.   
 Q.  That's about nine guys that you said you see as starting pitchers.  
DAVE ROBERTS: And it goes back to my original purging comment.   
 Q.  Any of those guys have a future in the bullpen or look like they might be --  
DAVE ROBERTS: I think that we just don't need to make that decision right now.  We've seen how our roster can shake out, but in December, I think you can still have nine starters.   
 Q.  Again, you have the nine starters, but there's a Japanese lefty starting pitcher --  
DAVE ROBERTS: Is that right?   
 Q.  How much --  
DAVE ROBERTS: Can I say his name?  Will I get in trouble saying his name?  No, we've seen him.  We've seen him.  And he's very interesting.  Good stuff.  Good arm.  Performed in Japan.  So how that plays out, I have no idea, but he's going to make any team much better.   
 Q.  Have you been in touch with Rich Hill?  
DAVE ROBERTS: I haven't talked to Rich yet.  But I plan on it.  I talked to him right after the season.  And I think for me, with him, family, getting back to the East Coast, he likes to hunker down.   
And so we had a good conversation after the World Series.  So it's not anything I felt I needed to follow up with.  We're in a good place.   
 Q.  When you talk about hitting the opposite way and bunting to be the shift, is that something that -- how do you go about practicing that, getting better at it?  Is that something you can actually practice on 75-mile-an-hour BP pitches, or is it more live batting practice?  
DAVE ROBERTS: It starts -- you can absolutely practice it.  It's your bat path.  And so there's a mechanical thing that we could kind of -- I could talk for a lot longer than you guys probably want about that.   
But, yeah, it goes to practicing and intent.  So you can certainly do that.  We will do that in our work in the cage and on the field.  And, yeah, when you take it out to Spring Training and to live at-bats, it should carry over.   
 Q.  With relievers, in their year-to-year volatility performance, where does that come from; why do you think that happens?  
DAVE ROBERTS: That's one of the toughest markets, any executive will tell you, to find the guy that is consistent.  Those are hard to find.  And it's very volatile.  It's the usage piece.  They're leaned on a lot.  So with the reliever, it's max effort.  So when you get the guy that can post 70-plus times for three, four years, those are still hard to find and they're a premium.   
So I think that if you look at our roster and how we've tried to manage them, try to minimize their usage, but when you play through October, two years in a row, that's hard to do.   
To your question, I don't know why there's so much volatility.  I just know it's very difficult.  So if you've got a guy on the come, let us know, and we'll get 'em.  We'll sign him.   
But it's tough.  I mean, but I do think that we've done a very good job of trying to match these guys up, our relievers with particular hitters or a run of hitters, to have them have success.  So I think we do a pretty good job of that.   
 Q.  On that same line, Pedro Baez kind of last year went from maybe he had had issues with the fans -- or fans had issues with him in the past, to being a fan favorite at the end?  
DAVE ROBERTS: He was a fan favorite, wasn't he?  It's amazing how that changes, right?  Well, we've always had faith in Pedro.  And he had a rough stretch there for a while last year.  He answered the bell.  He had a tremendous year.   
I couldn't be happier for him.  Guys like him on the team.  He's going to be a staple for us next year.   
So it takes a tough, mentally tough player to kind of withstand coming out of that gate in left field and your home fans are not singing your praises, not clapping for you, and you've still got to go out there bow your neck and get an out.   
I give a lot of credit to Pedro, a lot.  When you're talking about a Latin player who can't go out there and, you know, really express himself in Los Angeles, it's tough.  He's fighting -- it's tough on Latin players.   
And so I'm very sensitive to that as well.  But this guy works as hard as anybody, and very, very happy for him.  That's emotional for me because I'm happy for him the way he handled things.   
 Q.  Any concern that he won't get to face Paul Goldschmidt anymore?  
DAVE ROBERTS: That I was very happy to see.  Goldy, he can stay in the Central as long as he wants.  I'm trying to work getting him in the American League next.  But Goldy, gosh, one of my favorite players to watch.  And so to get him out of our division, it's great.  I hope he's happy.  I gotta send him flowers.   
 Q.  Want to talk about the new deal?  
DAVE ROBERTS: What new deal?  I'm year to year.  I'm happy.  I'm ecstatic.  I'm excited.  We knew it was going to happen.  I'm happy it got done.  And I'm thrilled.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT