NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS VS BREWERS
October 20, 2018
Dave Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Los Angeles - 5, Milwaukee - 1   
 Q.  As he said, two-time defending champs.  You climbed a lot of hills and mountains to get there.  What are your thoughts after getting there with the series and restarting on Tuesday?  
DAVE ROBERTS: I'm just so proud of our guys for enduring this roller coaster of a season.  A lot of people had their hand in this.  And for us to just continue to lean on each other, depend on one another and stay the course, it says a lot about the focus, the toughness of this team.  Coaches, training staff, baseball ops, scouts, and so many people got us to this point.   
So I'm just really proud of this entire organization and look forward to giving ourselves a chance to bring the championship back to Los Angeles.   
 Q.  When you get in a hard-fought seven-game series like this, when it's all said and done, in your mind what was the difference?  Your bullpen was spectacular, but can you put your finger on one?  
DAVE ROBERTS: You know what, it was a hard-fought series.  And first and foremost, I want to really congratulate Craig, the Milwaukee Brewers, on a tremendous season.  He's a pro.  Their players, the coaches really mirror what he's all about.  And it was a tremendous series, great fan base.  It was just kind of -- our pen was very good this series and we got big hits when we needed them.  I thought we played good defense.   
But, again, this series could have went either way.  And they gave us all we could handle.   
 Q.  Just in terms of signature moments, is the Chris Taylor catch it?  
DAVE ROBERTS: I think that's probably it.  You get the MVP in Yelich and he's competing and Julio leaves a pitch up with two strikes and Yelich puts a really good swing on it.  At that point in time I thought the game was tied.  But CT gets a great break on the ball, and really a game-saving play.  Once the game is tied anything can happen.  The momentum shifts.  But that was certainly a signature play at the time.   
 Q.  You've got your champagne goggles on, and there's millions of things racing through your head.  But your early thoughts on the series?  
DAVE ROBERTS: I'm looking forward to going back to Fenway.  Obviously for me personally I have a lot of fond memories of the Red Sox and Fenway Park.  To be wearing another uniform going in there playing for a World Series Championship is going to be special for me.   
But, yeah, I think that the fans -- it's great for baseball.  Two storied franchises going head-to-head.  It's going to be a great series.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT