NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS VS BREWERS
October 19, 2018
Dave Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. The first time we haven't seen Kiké in the lineup against a lefty in a while.  What have you seen from his at-bats?
DAVE ROBERTS: I think he's competing.  He's prepared, not getting the results.  But I still expect him to make an impact on today's game.  And I just like the way that Yasiel's at-bats have been.  I like him out there.  So it's just kind of the optionality of having Kiké off the bench and Yasi in this particular matchup.
Kiké is doing everything he needs to do, but just right now not getting the results, but he'll be fine.
Q. How has Yasmani handled not starting the last few games?
DAVE ROBERTS: He's handling it like a pro.  Like a good teammate, understanding that he had a great year.  But right now Austin is playing well on both sides of the ball.  So he's ready when called upon, and whether it's tonight or any ensuing games, I just think that Yasmani is still going to help us, and we need him, we need him to be right mentally.
Q. What does it say about Austin that this postseason, like last year, he just sort of dropped in and assumed that role?
DAVE ROBERTS: It says a lot about his perseverance and not letting this down year offensively get to him at this point in the season.  And he's prepared so well all year long consistently.  And the thing for me is that his defense has never wavered or been compromised.  That right there speaks to his character and makeup.  And at the most critical time in the box he's the most confident he's been in quite some time.
Q. I would ask about the lineup, but what's behind David Freese batting lead-off?
DAVE ROBERTS: It's more of still loving David's at-bat quality and like him against Miley and just being able to see him a couple of times, depending on how the game goes.  And I think that we've got some balance in there.  David's fine with hitting lead-off and understanding nothing with his approach changes.
And I think that again it's a game that you just don't know how it's going to unfold.  And so with the way that we structured the lineup and the guys we have on the bench, just kind of gives us a little bit of flexibility on how we want to use the guys on the bench.
Q. Every game is obviously must win.  How important is it to impress on the players even though you have a game in hand you've got to close it out when you have a chance to close it out?
DAVE ROBERTS: I think for our guys it's not something that I need to talk about.  It's very clear to them that this is a very important game, must-win game.  This is a game we want to win.  That's our only focus today.  And there's a lot of things going out there around our clubhouse, but our only intent is to do whatever we can to win tonight.
Q. If you were not fortunate enough to be in this position would you be at home watching these games or would you be doing something else?  The reason I ask is because the games in the postseason have the extra time built in.  I wonder if that is something that makes the games more strategic and exciting to the casual fan or might actually deter them from watching?
DAVE ROBERTS: I think I'd be tuning in.  I think obviously I've been there before where you're watching postseason baseball and it stings.  But I love the game and I love watching how managers kind of strategize and how players perform on this stage.
So I think this series probably more so than any series I can recall, with the chess playing and the matchups and all that stuff, but it's intriguing for me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT