NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS VS BREWERS
October 19, 2018
Dave Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Milwaukee - 7, Los Angeles - 2   
 Q.  Early on there did you give any thought to maybe pulling Ryu any earlier?  What was that balancing act between trying to win today and saving the pen for tomorrow?  
DAVE ROBERTS: That's sort of what the situation we were in.  They were taking good at-bats against him.  There's the thought of trying to go to your pen in the first inning or the second inning, but there's a significant cost potentially for a potential Game 7.   
So I just felt that we needed to get some more innings out of Hyun-Jin to keep our highest leverage guys available for a potential Game 7.   
 Q.  Fair to assume, then, that if this were a Game 7 you would have gone to the pen earlier?  
DAVE ROBERTS: Yeah, if it was a do-or-die game then we would have went -- it would have been an all-hands-on-deck situation where we would have gone to the pen earlier.   
But, again, to be all-in in a game and to not come out on the winning side of it, then there's a significant cost.   
 Q.  Other than Ryu, are any of the pitchers that we saw today just flat out not available tomorrow?  
DAVE ROBERTS: Outside of Ryu everyone will be available.  So with that we're in a good spot.   
 Q.  Even taking in Game 7 into account, how much do you hate having to do that?  This is still obviously an NLCS Game 6.  You guys weren't totally out of it, within striking distance.  How difficult is that?  
DAVE ROBERTS: No, it's tough.  But when you're down three runs after the first inning and you ultimately score two runs anyway, so to look back and have used all your guys and still only score two runs, for me it would have been the decision regardless.   
 Q.  How much did it hurt not forcing them to bring Hader into this game at all tonight?  
DAVE ROBERTS: Yeah, that's their best reliever and obviously you would have liked to kept the game close enough to have them use him tonight.  They got away tonight because of the run differential, they didn't have to use him.   
It's just important for us for Walker to go out there and throw the ball well and for our guys to give us a lead and put the pressure on them.   
 Q.  Looking at Chacin tomorrow, you saw him a little bit more because he was in the West last year.  Is he pitching better than you've ever seen him and why in your opinion?  
DAVE ROBERTS: He's using his curveball more.  Keeps the ball down well.  Obviously has a slider that's really tough on right-handers and he's got a two-seamer that runs.  We've seen him a lot.  We know how he's going to attack us and now it's about taking advantage of potential mistakes.   
 Q.  What are you expecting from the kid tomorrow?  
DAVE ROBERTS: I think Walker is prepared for this moment.  As far as his rest, he's ready to go.  And as far as his heartbeat, the weapons, all that stuff, we're in really good shape with him.  He understands the magnitude of this moment, this game, and he's a good person for us to take the baseball.   
 Q.  Craig Counsell said before the game tonight that their offense has been struggling, that maybe the fan energy could get them going.  It seemed like the first inning that's exactly what happened.  Was that from your side the worst-case scenario; the rallies, the fans getting into it, and them finally breaking loose on offense?  
DAVE ROBERTS: They did a good job, even Cain at bat in the first inning to just put a ball in play and to leg out a base hit, infield single, and the Aguilar ball that was off the plate that he kept fair.   
And obviously the fans, the way they responded, whether it was the runs and the fans or the fans and then the energy from the players.  But it was really good energy tonight.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT