NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS VS BREWERS
October 18, 2018
Dave Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I just want to know with Hyun-Jin this year, did you have any idea he could come back and be as good of a pitcher?  Have you noticed any changes in the way he's pitched?
DAVE ROBERTS: You don't really know what to expect coming off the injury, the injuries that he sustained.  But in Spring Training he came in in really good shape and threw the ball well there, and obviously in the early part of the season threw the ball well.
And the unfortunate groin injury, he was on his way to a really tremendous season.  And at that point in time you really don't know how he's going to come back in August.  But seeing him and his conditioning, for me, just the shape he maintained all year long I think led into his stuff being considerably better.  And he's just been very consistent with his entire pitch mix this year, when a guy has the command he does, and he's done that all year for us.
Q. If you had to pinpoint one reason why you think you're leading the series, what is the one part of this team's game that you're most pleased about?
DAVE ROBERTS: I would say the bullpen.  You look at Clayton in his second start -- or in his first start.  And then Ryu didn't go long in his start.  So I think for our pen to eat up those innings and put up a bunch of zeros allowed us to stay in games, keep leads.
And for me if I had to pick one thing, I think clearly the bullpen has clearly been the key for us.
Q. About the bullpen comment you made, does that allow you to change how you're managing the games, whether you've already done that or moving forward?  You mentioned for the playoffs did that change the equation at all?
DAVE ROBERTS: Yeah, I think if you look at the starters that we have and that are running out there, we made a plan to lean on them a little bit more, but every game will dictate how you're going to use your pen.  But I think the confidence that these guys have, and just feeling that they're not overused is a good thing.  But obviously you've got Hyun-Jin going tomorrow, so we still want length out of our starter.
So I think that you look at last year's World Series where it seemed like using the guys a lot and logging a lot of leverage innings and stressful innings, maybe caught up with our guys.  But I think right now to this point we're in a good spot.  But again the value of a starter going six, seven innings is huge.
Q. One more on the bullpen.  Ryan Madson really didn't seem to be much of a factor in September, but in the postseason he's been in almost every game.  Having a veteran in that kind of role very often coming in in the middle of an inning or with runners on base, how important is it to have somebody like Madson in that role in the postseason?  And is that role more important in the postseason than it is during the season?
DAVE ROBERTS: You could argue that it's more in the postseason in terms of the practicality of a particular game, but even as little as Ryan's been with us, and even the short time John Axford, the way the preparation and the conversation that these guys have, that our younger players, or more experienced players see.  But having a guy that's pitched in many postseason games and understands what it takes to get ready for a big spot and for our guys in the pen to see him execute pitches and not let a moment get too big for him, that definitely has a lasting effect on the rest of the guys.  And that just comes with experience.
And so obviously the surface numbers for Ryan were probably the worst of his career.  But fortunately our guys saw some value in him.  He's really played huge for us ever since we acquired him.
Q. Are you seeing anything different with Kenley since the playoffs started?
DAVE ROBERTS: I think there's more of a focus.  If you look at every part of the season there were things that he's been dealing with physically, mentally, mechanically.  But Kenley will be the first to say that when it matters most, the postseason, the big stage, that's when he kind of ramps it up, and that's not necessarily ideal as you hope everyone can kind of approach every outing the same.
But for a guy that is a multi-year starter, he's the best closer in the game.  That extra adrenaline makes him that much better.  And you see the pitch quality and execution going to a couple of different levels this postseason.
Q. Have to make the daily question about who your catcher will be tomorrow.
DAVE ROBERTS: We're going to go with Austin.  I think that he's really catching well.  He's having really good at-bats.  Still have Yasmani's bat off the bench is a plus with their bullpen.  But I think right now Austin makes sense.
Q. What does it say about him being able to kind of sit for as long as he did last year and this year and then kind of take over when the games mean the most?
DAVE ROBERTS: Well, it says a lot about his makeup.  Austin is a very blue collar player.  He prepares really well.  His teammates gravitate towards him.  And understanding that this season didn't play out the way he would have hoped offensively, but his defense never wavered, his preparation with the pitcher, the pitcher-catcher relationship, and it's just a credit to him that when you do get an opportunity that you're ready to perform, and that's clearly what's happened with Austin right now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT