NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS VS BREWERS
October 16, 2018
Dave Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Two-part question:  First, what most impresses you about the Milwaukee bullpen?  And secondly, do you notice a greater intensity or pressure on your guys this year to advance to the postseason as opposed to the last year or two years ago?  
DAVE ROBERTS: What impresses me about their bullpen is just the arm strength, the consistency, the way they attack hitters and how they're used.  Craig does a really nice job of really kind of matching their guys up.   
I don't see it any different this year in the postseason as I've seen it for our club in the last three years.  There's a focus on trying to win each game, win a series.  I don't think there's any added pressure.  We've kind of been in this situation before and we've just got to go out there and win a baseball game and keep winning.  I don't see any difference.   
 Q.  Facing Miley in Game 2, did you see anything different from when you saw him the two times in July or was he doing pretty much the same stuff?  
DAVE ROBERTS: I can't completely recount those other two starts.  I know that he's had his way with us.  There's kind of -- the pitching to soft contact, keeping the ball down.  He's got a cutter now that he uses a lot more than he did in years past to the right-hand hitter.  He doesn't get the -- it's hard to get the ball in the air.  So I just don't think that -- I know our intent wasn't to put the ball on the ground and create soft contact, but for him he's done a good job against us.  So when we do see him obviously we've got to make an adjustment.   
 Q.  Do you have any thoughts on the fact that either tomorrow, next week, these could be one of Clayton's last games in the Dodger's uniform pitching?  
DAVE ROBERTS: No.  You bring it up to my attention and I'm sure -- I guess it's a reality.  But I think that for me it's just thinking about tonight and tomorrow with Clayton pitching for us.  And so I don't get too far ahead of that, no.   
 Q.  Did you have a talk with Kiké about his comments last night, the criticism he had of the fans of their criticism of the catching that's gone on so far this series?  
DAVE ROBERTS: Just a brief conversation, and just from what I understand from Kiké it was taken out of context.   
We all know Kiké is very emotional.  He cares about winning and his work in the community and his interaction with the fans is unprecedented, is well documented.  So I know he feels we're all in it together as far as players, coaches, fans.   
And so I know there was a little bit of a clarification, retraction, whatever it might be.  I do know the player.  I know the person and I know he cares.  And so I know he loves being a Dodger.  And, again, his interaction with the fans is top level.  So I know he felt bad that it was kind of received that way.   
 Q.  You touched on this last night.  How do you feel about the fans booing?  
DAVE ROBERTS: It's not ideal.  I think that here at home you're doing your best, and to get booed is tough.  They have a right.  The fans have a right to do what they feel and voice their frustration, as we all get frustrated at times.  So like I said last night, I know Yasmani is trying and he prepares and it doesn't feel good to get booed but he's going to go out there and prepare again.   
So like I said, it's not ideal but it's kind of the way sports is.  If you don't perform and they want us to play well, and they have every right to expect that from us.   
 Q.  A little bit different lineup today with Brian at second base, Yasiel on right and Matt coming out.  What was the thinking behind those changes?  
DAVE ROBERTS: I think that in batting practice, in the limited amount of at-bats Dozier has had, I see some good things from his at-bats and swinging at strikes and taking balls.  I think this is a good opportunity for him tonight.  And with Yasiel, he hasn't had good history versus Gio, but I still believe that Yasiel at home, the defense, we expect him to probably see Gio one time, and I like him in the lineup.  I like his energy.   
And with Matt, to be able to use him off the bench in a big spot, I like that, as well.  There's some guys in that bullpen with velocity that I think Matt really matches up well with.   
 Q.  We saw Clayton Kershaw be really good two starts ago and not pitch as deep in the last start.  Do you think he's going to be more susceptible to these highs and lows now that he's pitching to contact more, relying more on balls in play than he used to?  
DAVE ROBERTS: Honestly, I don't think that that's necessarily it.  I think that, yeah, there is ball in play component.  But I also think there's a quality of contact, where you look at the last game there was a lot more quality contact versus that Atlanta game.   
So I think with anything with Clayton is he expects himself to execute.  And when you're sequencing the right way and when you're executing there's punch in there and probably not as much as there has been in the past.  But then there's soft contact.  And those are outs, typically.  So when he's right, he's still going to log out.  And that's the number one goal that I know that he wants, to get outs, and I still think he can be efficient doing that.   
 Q.  Because of the amount of runners you guys have left in scoring position, have you talked about that prehistoric word "bunt" at all or "hit the other way"?  Is this something that's just not part of what we do anymore?  
DAVE ROBERTS: Well, I think the bunt question, I think that's a very broad question.  And I think that it's an individual situation based.   
So I think that if you talk to me about a certain bunt situation I can answer your question.  You also have to have the personnel that you feel that can execute a bunt.  And a baserunner that can advance.  So if you're inferring to Walker Buehler bunting with a man on second base with one out, that is a crazy ask, No. 1.  So that's one part of it.   
The hit the other way, Kiké was trying to hit the ball the other way and didn't get it done.  So I think there are times where guys do try to hit the ball the other way and we haven't been successful.  And, yeah, we do that to get better from a runner in scoring position.   
 Q.  Can you speak to Clayton's competitiveness on the mound and what you expect from him in a Game 5?  
DAVE ROBERTS: I expect the same intent that he has in every game he throws.  The preparation started shortly there after that Milwaukee start, and it's going to be the same intensity, the same focus.  And I expect there will be better execution.  Nothing more.  Nothing less.  And that's the thing about Clayton which has made him great, whether it's a Spring Training game or playoff game, he has the same intent.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT