NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS VS BREWERS
October 16, 2018
Dave Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Los Angeles - 2, Milwaukee - 1 (13)
Q. That had to be one of the most challenging endings to a game.  Take us through those last innings for you.
DAVE ROBERTS: It really was.  We had our Game 6 starter going to the pen.  We had Julio for two, maybe three innings.  So I guess the poker reference, we were all in.  And one of the crazier games, where there's really no margin on either side.  Can't say enough about our defense.  The play that Cody made out there was incredible.
And the bullpen, just -- Rich initially was good, and gave us five innings.  But the bullpen, what they did tonight against a very good offensive club, my hat's off to these guys.
Q. Usually in those walk-off celebrations the players go crazy on the field and the manager and coaches have a dignified wait out in the dugout or baseline.  I don't think I've seen you move that fast since 2004.
DAVE ROBERTS: I think it's seeing our guys persevere through that game.  I gave my coaches some love after the walk-off hit.  But I just -- understanding and seeing what Cody has been going through and really just wearing it and the weight of the world on him.  And for him to come through in that big spot, I just felt for him and all of our guys.  I wanted to make sure I went out there and greeted him.
Hamstring is good now, but it will be sore tomorrow.
Q. What was your take on the Machado play at first base, and do you understand why the Brewers were upset?
DAVE ROBERTS: I think it was one of those things where I think Aggie had his foot on first base and didn't give Manny a whole lot of room on the bag.  I didn't see the replay.  So he stepped on his foot and I think that was what Manny was talking about.  But we all worked it out.
Q. Was there any thought of going with Clayton tonight at the end?
DAVE ROBERTS: No.
Q. A little bit overlooked, but Brian Dozier gets his first start of the playoffs, drives in the first run.  What did you see from him?
DAVE ROBERTS: I just saw quality at-bats, and really good swings, and he was on base three times I think tonight -- four times.  So he hasn't played a whole lot in the last few weeks but he's a pro and just really takes good at-bats.  So for him to spark us and get a point on the board early, that was huge.  And just the defense tonight and just the at-bat quality I thought was really good.
Q. When you guys neutralized Cain and Yelich the way your pitchers have done a lot in this series, especially since Game 1, how does that change just how your guys get through the innings and get through multiple scoreless innings?
DAVE ROBERTS: Those guys are very offensive players.  Very good players.  And a lot of the credit, all the credit goes to the advance, the catchers, the pitchers, obviously, executing.  And those guys are very good hitters, and they came in very hot.  To keep those guys off base or keep them somewhat at bay and keep them from slugging keeps us in ballgames.
So it's a collective effort, all of us.  But the pitchers ultimately are executing pitches.
Q. Were you confident that Cody was going to get to that ball?  I know he hasn't played a lot of right field.  What are the challenges of putting him in that situation from his standpoint?
DAVE ROBERTS: With Cody, for me, it's not a challenge at all because I trust him at first, anywhere in the outfield.  He gets really good jumps on the ball.  And he's just so long and covers a lot of ground.  I didn't think he was going to be able to get there, but the 6-4 frame, the foot speed, huge play.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT