NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS VS BREWERS
October 13, 2018
Dave Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Dave, did you feel Yasmani just needed a breather today after yesterday and will he start Game 3?  
DAVE ROBERTS: Yasmani will start Game 3.  He might be in this game today at some point.  I just felt that to get Austin a start, he's got some history with Wade Miley.  I like him behind the plate with Hyun-Jin.  So Yasi had a tough one last night, but it's not the reason why he's not in there today.   
 Q.  Getting Yasiel in there against a lefty doesn't happen every day.  What did you like about that matchup, and I assume Cody -- what part of Cody factored into that equation?  
DAVE ROBERTS: First off, I think Cody is taking really good at-bats.  I do.  And I expect him to be in there at some point in time in the middle of the game.  With Yasiel, it was more of I like him against Miley.  I think he's a low-ball hitter.  I think he can stay in the strike zone.  The left-handed velocity is not what Miley features.  I like the defense in right field.  And I think Yasiel is also going to bring some energy today.   
 Q.  With the way they like torched Hader yesterday, do you feel more comfortable making sort of wholesale changes after Miley goes out?  
DAVE ROBERTS: That's a fair question, Andy.  That's a good thought.  Yeah.  Hader went three innings, so we would assume he's down.  So that's definitely on the table.  Andy is going to be in the dugout with me.  I like it.   
 Q.  Dave, Ryu has obviously had his injuries over the years, but when he's on, he's really good.  What have you seen from him this year that's made him so reliable for you?  
DAVE ROBERTS: I think -- and talking to Hyun-Jin, it was the winter where he could kind of prepare for a season as a regular player instead of going through the rehab and coming into Spring Training, was in good shape, was strong.  And then it was just the buildup as a regular player, starting pitcher, got off to a good start, and I think that that's No. 1.   
And so I think that -- being out of the rehab mode, I think, psychologically has helped him.  And now you're worrying about just competing and not trying to get healthy or anything like that.  And then you're talking about in practice, his starts, he's just -- he's got weapons.  When you have various weapons and if one's not working that particular start, you can kind of pivot.  He has feel, fastball command.  So the ability to attack hitters in different ways is obviously a huge advantage for him.   
And in this spot -- I know I talk about it a lot -- is I just trust the pulse.  And it's going to get loud in there, but to have a guy that can execute a pitch when he needs to, that's an advantage to us.   
 Q.  How important was it the last couple of innings last night in getting you guys moving toward today?  
DAVE ROBERTS: It was huge.  It was huge.  And no loss essentially feels any better than another, but if you're looking at what took place last night and for us to see leverage guys and to gather information, when you're looking at a seven-game series, I think that it was a real benefit to us.  It doesn't change the outcome of the game, obviously, but I really saw the at-bats from our guys, there was some hard contact in there.   
Yeah, there were strikeouts, but I do think that when you're talking a little bit of a longer view in a series, having more information on a reliever, I think advantage hitter, and that was for us.   
 Q.  You mentioned you like Bellinger's at-bats.  Do you see signs of frustration, though, that he's not getting results?  
DAVE ROBERTS: Yes.  Yeah.   
 Q.  He's not in today?  
DAVE ROBERTS: Well, he's going to be in the game.  He's going to be in the game.  There is a frustration where he wants to see results, and all players do.  But I encourage him, even today, that where he's at mechanically, I encourage him mentally to stay there in a positive way, because he's going to get some big hits for us.  For me, as far as starting, I don't think that that had anything to do with it.  I do expect him to be in there at some point in time in the middle of the game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT