NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS VS BREWERS
October 12, 2018
Dave Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Any issues physically with Scott Alexander, and regardless of the answer to that, why Julio on this roster?
DAVE ROBERTS: Scott's healthy.  We decided to go with Julio.  We like his pitch mix, the weapons that he has to attack the lefties and the righties in their lineup.
Q. Dave, workload-wise, with Julio, can he pitch in back-to-back games?  Can he get more than three outs for you?
DAVE ROBERTS: He can get more than three outs, and then the back-to-back, that's something that we're comfortable with, but obviously it wouldn't be an extended back-to-back.  But the value of Julio to come in and get one to four or five outs, I think that for us with our bullpen construction, we feel comfortable with that.
Q. Dave, when you talk about a team that has a superior bullpen, does that put more pressure on the early part of the game for your offense knowing that that's one of their weapons is their bullpen?
DAVE ROBERTS: I wouldn't look at it as pressure, but I do think that you can -- it obviously puts them in a tougher position to fire those bullets with a lead, if we do have the lead.  So I think our guys, though, are taking the same approach that every pitch is important.  We're trying to beat the starter.  And for us to be able to get in the bullpen early speaks to us doing some good things offensively.  So that's going to be our approach.
Q. As far as Julio's rehab outlook is concerned, if I had told you in Spring Training that he'd be on your roster for the NLCS, would that have surprised you at all?
DAVE ROBERTS: Yeah.  Actually, that was kind of our hope coming out of Spring Training that his rehab would get him back with us end of July.  I think I recall something like that.  So with the way we feel about him and his pitch mix, that wouldn't have been too far-fetched.  Obviously, there was a couple of hiccups with the rehab process.  So if you'd have asked me that in August, then probably not very much more unlikely.  But it's a credit to the training staff and Julio to put in that work to be in this position right now.
Q. With Julio, he hasn't pitched much obviously this year, but he also hasn't pitched in leverage situations for you guys.  Is there anything that gives you confidence that he can step into a stage like this and get a big out for you?
DAVE ROBERTS: I think there's a lot.  You know the guy.  We saw it in '16 in the postseason and what he did and how he responded to big moments, big spots.  And so I think the one thing with Julio is us worrying about the pulse and leverage in the postseason, that's really not -- then the next thing is -- obviously most important is the health component.  And we've talked to the trainers, the doctors, and Julio himself and feel that the strength and where he's at physically, that we're not compromising anything.  So when you put those two things together, we feel really good about our decision.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT