NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS VS BREWERS
October 12, 2018
Dave Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Milwaukee - 6, Los Angeles - 5   
 Q.  Dave, can you put a finger on what seems to happen with Kershaw in the postseason?  
DAVE ROBERTS: No.  As far as tonight, first of all, we gave up too many bases.  We didn't play clean when he was in the game.  The errors affected the game.  But as far as Clayton, I just think it was poor execution.  And I thought the stuff was good, but he just made mistakes in the strike zone and defensively, again, we didn't do him any favors.   
 Q.  With the Brewers trying to bullpen their way through this series, how big was it in your opinion to get that rally together in the 8th inning and make Knebel work a little there in the 9th?  
DAVE ROBERTS: I thought we played an entire baseball game.  I did.  For them to use Hader for three innings tonight and for us to get a good look at their arms in the pen, I thought we had good at-bats all the way till the end.  So they were selling out, obviously, with Josh going three innings tonight against us.  But I thought our at-bats -- even when we weren't scoring runs, I thought they were competitive.   
 Q.  Dave, how stunning was it to see Woodruff, who rarely has batted in the Major Leagues, a pitcher, a kid, hit a home run off Kershaw like that?  
DAVE ROBERTS: I think he had four at-bats this year, and we saw he had actually some little bit of power, not a bad swing.  But to see the ball go out of the ballpark against Clayton, obviously, that was a surprise to all of us.  The ball, he tried to get away and it was middle-middle and he put a good swing on it.   
 Q.  What did you see out of Urias tonight when you put him in that situation?  
DAVE ROBERTS: I thought he was all right.  Just the change just didn't have that life at the end, the depth.  I thought the arm speed was good.  I thought the stuff was good, and it was on the corner, the pitch to Aguilar, but just not low enough and just didn't have that finish to it.  Again, he put a good swing on it, and I didn't expect it to go that far.  But for Julio to get out there, I thought -- outside of the homer, I thought he was fine.   
 Q.  Dave, I know the goal is to win, but can you take anything away from the way this game ended?  It seemed like you guys picked up some momentum.  Is that something you can carry into tomorrow?  
DAVE ROBERTS: I thought the guys in the pen came in, and I thought we threw the ball well.  I thought our at-bat quality throughout the night was good.  I know we punched a lot tonight, but they're running some good arms out there.  But for us to get a look at these guys out of the pen in a seven-game series, I think that's a good thing.  And for our guys to -- for us to have the tying run at third base, we did some good things tonight.  So yeah, the goal is to win a baseball game, but I think that it shows the compete in our guys.   
 Q.  It looked like a quick conversation after the catcher's interference call, but what did Scott tell you there?  
DAVE ROBERTS: Scott was very adamant that he heard the bat, Aguilar's bat hit the glove.  And so right there, that's one of those things that I just wanted to -- it was a big play, obviously, and it went the other way on us, and just wanted to verify it.  It's not reviewable, and even looking at it, from what I heard, you really couldn't tell.  But that's hard -- you just, again, there's nothing you can do about it.   
 Q.  With Grandal's defense in general tonight, there seemed to be a lot going on.  Was there anything in particular you noticed with him?  
DAVE ROBERTS: Just securing the baseball.  You know, the catcher's interference, that was something that very freak thing, and the relay, it's a play that I know that Yasmani will say he should have made, and just, you know, giving up bases, but pretty uncharacteristic.  But it's just one of those things that unfortunately didn't make the plays that I know he expects to make.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT