NL DIVISION SERIES: BRAVES VS DODGERS
October 8, 2018
Dave Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Los Angeles - 6, Atlanta - 2
Q. Dave, you acquired Manny Machado for games like this this time of the year.  He hit the ball hard four times.  What can you say about him?
DAVE ROBERTS: Can't say enough about him, and obviously with Manny and a player of his caliber, there are so many expectations put on him.  And we said it from the beginning that it's going to take all of us to win a championship, and he understands that and for him to put together some at-bats tonight, really quality at-bats, and obviously a game-changing home run.  So you look back at this series, his two homers essentially led us to two wins.  We have a lot of good players, but I can't say enough about his focus and preparedness.
Q. What about Freese?
DAVE ROBERTS: You know, David is a guy that we've always -- I've always admired, and what he's done in big moments and the way he plays the game.  So to see him on a daily basis and how he interacts with our guys and makes people around him better, he's really impacted us in a short period of time.  And now when you're talking about putting him in a spot in a big moment, you just can bet on the pulse, and he's obviously come up with some big hits for us in such a short period of time.  But obviously this is probably the biggest one, and we're lucky to have him.
Q. Dave, all the talk last week before this series began was about how the process for you guys was different this year having to fight and claw down the stretch, and now that that part of it's behind you and you've won the series, do you feel like the team is playing its best ball of the year right now?
DAVE ROBERTS: I do.  And I said that sometime in September I felt we were playing our best baseball, collectively.  And we took a hard path to get to this point, but I do think it made us stronger and kind of galvanized our team.  But, you know, we celebrate tonight, but I know that -- we all know that there's a lot more work to be done and we have eight more wins to go.
And before I leave, I just want to congratulate the Braves on a tremendous season.  Brian and his entire staff, the players, it was really fun to watch those guys compete this year and for us to be here in this great city and this fan base.  It brought out the best in us, and we're going to be dealing with those guys more in the future, but I just want to congratulate those guys.
Q. Since you've got a few days now before the start of the next series, is the plan to go to Milwaukee or do you go home for a day?
DAVE ROBERTS: We're going to go home, and we're going to take tomorrow off and give the guys a day.  We'll work out on Tuesday and Wednesday and probably fly out on Thursday and do a workout there in Milwaukee.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT