NL DIVISION SERIES: BRAVES VS DODGERS
October 6, 2018
Dave Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I guess were you surprised at all to see they're going to go with Newcomb for Game 3, and what do you think you guys can take out of how well he pitched against you earlier in the year?  
DAVE ROBERTS: Surprised.  Obviously their backs are against the wall, and they feel it's the best chance to give them a chance to win tomorrow.  So he's had success against us.  I feel that just some history and a little bit more familiarity, you know, I don't know what to expect of his length tomorrow.  Obviously it's contingent upon how he performs.  But I like the guys we're going to run out there.   
 Q.  What do you remember about that start that Newcomb had here, and what do you think he really did well just to really keep your bats off balance?  
DAVE ROBERTS: I think I haven't looked back at that game, but I just recall missing a lot of bats.  It was the fastball.  And I just think it's one of those things that you just don't know a pitcher and you really don't know the life that it might have, and so it kind of snuck up on us a little bit.  And I think he was pitching at 95, 96 the entire day.  So really dominated us that day.   
 Q.  When you look at the guys you've added in Freese and the way you guys hit lefties, especially in September, do you feel like you're a different team than any of the ones that Newcomb has season as a starter previously?  
DAVE ROBERTS: I do.  That was just kind of the first part of the season against left-handed pitching.  None of our guys really swing the bats.  And I think September obviously with the additions of some players helped our performance, and also we started playing better baseball or having better at-bats against the lefties.  So the numbers speak for themselves.  So depending on how we kind of structure the lineup tomorrow, I still feel good about whoever we're facing, yeah.   
 Q.  Do you expect to use the normal lineup you've been using against left-handed pitchers?  
DAVE ROBERTS: There might be a little bit of a tweak or two because -- just appreciating the fact that he pitched a couple days ago, don't know how long it's going to go.  They've got Teheran and Gausman in the pen.  You just kind of never want to expose yourself to a complete line change.  So something like that, we're not completely set on how we're going to go about it.   
 Q.  He is also a little bit of a reverse splits guy.  Does that also play a role with how you construct your line tomorrow?  
DAVE ROBERTS: It makes it a little bit easier to kind of plug in a lefty or two to feel better about it, but he is a guy that has a good curveball.  It's a 12 to 6 old school curveball and plus velocity.  So looking at our roster and what gives us the best chance to take on a good at-bat against that guy for one or two at-bats, I think that that's the decision I'm going to make.   
 Q.  Yasiel had been so effective in September and you commended him a lot for being locked in day to day.  Are you concerned at all that the focus might be wavering after what you saw last night?  
DAVE ROBERTS: I think Yasiel, he's one of those guys that is just so emotional, and he has a hard time at times letting the game come to him.  And he tries to at times impose his will on the game, and it gets him into trouble.  But other times somehow he comes out on the other side.  But in that situation where you've got Cody in a good spot against a pitcher and stress him a little bit and to run into -- we've talked about that, especially in this situation, you don't want to give outs away, and essentially he gave an out away, and it kind of flipped Cody's at-bat, his mentality during that at-bat.  So we talked about it, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT