NL DIVISION SERIES: NATIONALS VS DODGERS
October 6, 2019
Dave Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Dodgers - 10, Nationals - 4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  Russell Martin 10 years ago was in the postseason with the Dodgers and since he's been in the postseason with the Yankees and the Pirates and the Blue Jays and now back here again doing it again. The fact that you have somebody with that kind of experience who's been through all of this provides what kind of value?  
DAVE ROBERTS: That's hard to put into words. What he's done for our entire group, namely the young catchers, just the entire group of ball players, his insight, his experience, and now you talk about when he does get an opportunity to play, just his toughness, his compete and obviously the at-bat quality and this is a guy that has big spots, he's got some big hits for us this year, none bigger than the one tonight. But a lot of that is experience. So just for him to be an extension of me, the coaching staff and the other veterans is a big reason why we are here.   
 Q.  The seven-run 6th inning, all the run-scoring hits were with two strikes, all the runs after two outs. What was it about the approach against Corbin that allowed that to happen?  
DAVE ROBERTS: Yeah, I mean even the double by Russell was down below, it was a good pitch. But, guy on first base, two outs, you got Corbin on the mound, and Freese takes a ball the other way and beats the shift and from that point on it just seemed like our guys were just locking in and trying to compete and keep the line moving and get a good pitch, get them up and you look at obviously the Russell at-bat, CT took a great at-bat and Kiké did the same thing. So obviously we finished that inning off with a JT homer, but you don't plan for seven-run innings but after the first five, tonight and to see us kind of get back to what we do best was really good to see.   
 Q.  How much do you think Cody's at bat that inning kind of sparked -- obviously the Martin hit was huge -- but his at-bat to be able to kind of work the count and start it out how big was that?  
DAVE ROBERTS: It was great because I think that even obviously they had a perfect runway if they were going to deploy Corbin tonight and that's where they wanted to use him. But for Cody to take that at-bat, and sometimes you see a lefty and it gets you back. So for him to take that at-bat, line a base hit, and you saw throughout the night he took some really good swings. But certainly to get Corbin in there and to see Cody take that at-bat, to see a leadoff guy get on base I thought energized us a little bit.   
 Q.  You mentioned before the game that you had constructed the lineup knowing that you were going to see Corbin at some point. How did that play out in that 6th inning with your three pinch hitters?  
DAVE ROBERTS: Yeah, I mean I thought it worked out really well.   
Obviously with, when you're going to, you go to Corbin at some point, which we were planning on, to have certain guys that you might hit for, I loved the matchups to combat Corbin. So I thought he made some good pitches and fortunately we spoiled some good pitches and took some really good at-bats. But it's just a complete buy-in from our guys that you might not start the game, but you certainly have an opportunity later on in the game to impact it. It was effect with Freese, Kiké, CT, all those guys impacted that way, that game, coming off the bench.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT