NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: CUBS VS DODGERS
October 16, 2017
Dave Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. As you go into these next three games, is Kenta someone you feel comfortable going with on back-to-back days, or is that still something you guys are trying to sort out his availability?
DAVE ROBERTS: Kenta, yes.  Kenta is available and back-to-back, he's resilient.  So, yeah, depending on how much he's used in a particular game.  But I think that the back-to-back we're not concerned about.
Q. You mentioned yesterday that Corey Seager is feeling normalish.  I was wondering does that change any plans as far as him traveling to Chicago or not?
DAVE ROBERTS: No, it hasn't.  There's continued improvement today, but he's not going to be on the flight with us to Chicago.
Q. Just to follow-up on that question, is there any chance that Corey would rejoin the club for Game 4 or 5 in Chicago?
DAVE ROBERTS: I don't see it happening right now.  He hasn't done anything baseball specific.  So, number one, we've got to get him in a place where physically he feels like he can play in a Major League game and endure those conditions as far as weather, to be able to come back after a game and to play the next day.  So right now I wouldn't say that we're close to that point yet.
Q. How has your trust in Yu grown from August to September to now with what you've seen from him in the playoffs?
DAVE ROBERTS: It's grown considerably, and I think that it starts with the confidence he has in himself, and his ability to execute a pitch or throw a strike when he needs to.  And I think that early on coming over here things sped up on him a little bit.  He was out of whack mechanically, but I think right now simplifying things and being able to repeat the delivery, I think he's gained a lot of confidence, and I think in turn we feel the same about him.
Q. In general, how good do you feel about being up 2-0?  At the same time, how wary are you of this Cubs team knowing that they have come back in the past?
DAVE ROBERTS: Yeah, I think up to this point we've done everything we can to put ourselves in a good position, but there is a long way to go.  And this team, the Cubs are not going to quit fighting and competing.  I think with our guys, speaking for our team, our only focus is getting three, and putting at-bats together and pitching well.  So it's definitely noted how resilient that club is over there.  They're going to do everything they can to win a game and we're going to do the same.
Q. With regards to Kenley, he's been in both games.  Is there any concern at all having him throw multiple innings in multiple games or back-to-back games and so too with Brandon Morrow?
DAVE ROBERTS: No, it sort of depends on the stress or the pitch count for each guy.  They've both been very efficient, and with the off-day today, obviously, we're mindful of that.  But, yeah, when you're looking at potentially three games in a row -- but I do believe that for our guys we've prepared for this moment and monitored their usage throughout the season.  So suffice to say, we'll do whatever we can to win Game 3.
Q. I know you pitched well against everybody on the Cubs, but specifically want to ask about Javy Baez.  He was the NLCS MVP last year.  What have you guys done so well against him this year in your opinion?
DAVE ROBERTS: We've just executed.  Javy is a very talent player.  He's dangerous in the batter's box.  But I think that it goes with any player, not to get into specifics.  But when our guys execute, we have a very good chance of getting guys out, and that's a very dangerous lineup.  They build on momentum and hits and slug.  But when we execute, we have a good chance of getting these guys out.  Up to this point, we've done a very good job of that.
Q. I don't know if it's too early to say, but do you anticipate any changes to the lineup for Game 3 going against the righty?
DAVE ROBERTS: You know what, J.P., we're going to go over it on the plane and talk about it.  But I do know that there might be a couple changes.  But with the guys that we have on the position players side on the roster, I feel very comfortable with.
But we haven't really come to a consensus yet as far as what we're going to do.  So there's going to be some conversations, digging into some match-ups and things like that.  I'm sure we're going to come up with something pretty good.
Q. Yesterday you mentioned Adrian Gonzalez was home and rehabbing with his family.  Was that a difficult decision for him not to be with the team?  I know he wasn't traveling with his back issues, but at least being at the home games, was that -- how did that decision come about?
DAVE ROBERTS: Well, it's one of those things where he's been such a great Dodger and is a great Dodger, and to be home to rest his back.  Obviously, the guys and myself are in contact with him constantly.  He's rooting like heck.  But I think for him he didn't want to be a distraction, and just wanted the guys that were active, and the taxi guys that potentially might be activated are traveling with us.  So I think that's an organizational policy that he respects.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT