NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: CUBS VS DODGERS
October 13, 2017
Dave Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Any update on Corey Seager?  Is he going to be able to go through the workout today?
DAVE ROBERTS: We're going to keep him off the field today.  His back's been barking since that Game 3 in Arizona, so we're going to have him lay low.  A lot of what we've done even this season, just keep him off the field, helps the elbow and now with the back, so to keep him laying low.  But we're optimistic he'll be fine day-to-day.
Q. Back in August Joe Maddon said when you guys were at your peak that he really liked the matchup with you guys in the playoffs a lot.
DAVE ROBERTS: He's getting his wish.
Q. I'm wondering how much bulletin board material was that at the time, and did you think about it after the moment?
DAVE ROBERTS: Didn't think about it after the moment.  Heard it, and he has a lot of confidence in his guys, as much as I have in our guys, so it's going to be a great series.
Q. Do you have any idea of your rotation beyond Kershaw?
DAVE ROBERTS: Yeah.  We're going to go Kershaw, Hill, Darvish, Wood.
Q. Any specific reason for that that you'd like to share?
DAVE ROBERTS: No, no.  Just kind of we felt good in the DS with that, and I think just to continue as we kind of looked into matchups with things like that, just to stay and keep the guys on turn just made sense for us.
Q. When you say you're pretty optimistic that Corey Seager is going to be able to play tomorrow, is there a possibility that he might not be ready to go?
DAVE ROBERTS: No, I mean, there's always a possibility.  But with the back injury, that kind of locked him up a little bit.  But right now he's getting treatment.  Has gotten treatment the last couple days, and every day keeps getting considerably better.
So it's just one of those things that we've just got to be mindful of.  Want to keep him off the field.  I think it will help the back, the elbow, the whole workload thing, which we've done all year.  But we're very optimistic he'll be in there on Saturday.
Q. Is it a muscular issue?
DAVE ROBERTS: It's just a little muscular thing, yeah.
Q. In the previous round, obviously the Diamondbacks came in after having played in the Wild Card Game and their pitching staff was a little taxed.  Kind of a similar situation here.  Seems like you guys are kind of getting rewarded for your seeding.  Is that kind of nice to see -- I know this is a new season, but for your regular season, too, I guess, it could be paying some dividends here.
DAVE ROBERTS: It's certainly better to be at home and not have to deal with the travel that they had to endure last night and to be able to set your rotation, get guys rested.  Obviously our pen is in a pretty good state.
So as far as our game plan, just going out there and trying to continue to grind out at-bats and continue to put the pressure on.
Those guys over there, they're the world champs.  They're very resilient.  They're a professional group, so they're going to come out and fight.  But it's just up to us to go out there and keep our focus and play well.
Q. For any reason, are you pleased that you're facing the Cubs because of them knocking you out last year, and as you say, they're the champs?
DAVE ROBERTS: I don't know if it's pleased.  I don't really -- I don't think we really cared who we faced.  They're a good ballclub.  So are the Nationals.  So I think everyone's got their own opinions.  But I really wasn't rooting for one particular team.
But, yeah, they're the world champs, the defending champs.  So I guess they say to win a championship you've got to go through the current champions.  So it's going to be a fun series.  But we really weren't concerned with who won or not.
Q. Big play of the game last night was when Contreras picked the guy off first.  I'm sure you're obviously very cognizant of that.  Are there tip-offs on that that you guys pick up on?
DAVE ROBERTS: That we'd like to share with you?
Q. Are there?  Do they exist?  Also, when you were a base stealer, who were the experts to doing that, base stealers among catchers, when you played?
DAVE ROBERTS: The Molina brothers were always very good.  I played with Bengie, Yadier, and Contreras, he's got a good arm.  He's active.  He trusts his arm.  And Anthony's very in tune on the base with the base runner.  That was a situation where, yeah, they were trying to get out of a tough spot with Trea Turner at-bat.
So, yeah, we're aware of their tendencies and the rapport that he and Anthony have.  So there are some -- that was a big play.  That was a big play.  The bigger thing is the instant replay on that.  Obviously Lobaton was on the bag, but that's a whole different issue.  But it was a big play in the game, certainly.
Q. You've talked about how the success that you've had during the regular season helped set you up with the benefits that you have from having the best record, having the top seed.  Then you sweep the Diamondbacks and have a few days off, so it really puts you in an optimal position heading into the series.  Yet, when you go back to last year and talk about the disappointment of coming one step short of the World Series, it took you seven months to get all of these benefits.  But in another sense, is it that the real work still lies ahead?
DAVE ROBERTS: Yeah.  I think that it took us quite some time to get over last year, and we set our goals high, obviously, coming out of Spring Training.  This next season, as far as the postseason, I think that we've done everything we can do up to this point.
But it's very clear what our ultimate goal is.  But our guys all year long have done a very good job of not getting ahead of themselves.  So our only focus is tomorrow, it really is, and whatever we can do to win a baseball game tomorrow.
So I think that's kind of been the mindset or the formula that's kind of gotten us through the ebbs and flows of the season.  But to the guys' credit, we've put ourselves in an optimum position, and we feel good about it.  The rest is good for our club.  But now we've got to go out there and play.  We've got to go out there and play well.
Q. Are there any changes to the 25-man roster that you're able or willing to share with us today?
DAVE ROBERTS: Right now we haven't made the final decisions.  We're getting closer.  We're at the 5-yard line.
Q. So you talk about not getting ahead of yourselves.  Some fans obviously are very ahead of themselves right now.  What would you say to them?
DAVE ROBERTS: I would say to them enjoy Game 1.  It's going to be a fun game.  We want to win just as much as they do, and we're prepared, we're ready.  And cheer like heck for the Dodgers Game 1.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT