NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 22, 2019
Jack Mueller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
125 Pounds   
THE MODERATOR: Jack Mueller from Virginia is here.  Talk a little bit about that match.  You're going to the national championship.   
JACK MUELLER: It's what I wanted.  Everybody has been talking about how weak my schedule was, so it felt good to take down the No. 1 guy.  I'm the one to beat now.  I'm the 1 seed.  So yeah.   
 Q.  Jack, you had mentioned you didn't have much of a schedule.  Did you ever feel like you were being ignored this year when they talked about this weight class?  
JACK MUELLER: A little bit.  I had All-American a few years ago, and everyone kind of threw it away.  I think that's because (indiscernible) defaulted.  But I've beaten some good guys.  I'm there.  People weren't giving me the respect that I thought I needed, but can't blame them.  I really didn't wrestle anybody ranked.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the move back down to 125 this season?  
JACK MUELLER: Oh, it sucked.  (Laughs.)  But it was worth it.  National finalist?  I mean, it's crazy.  It's like a blur.  Felt really good to get that win.  I was dominant.  I wish I didn't give up the reversal at the end, but 25-pound grind sucks.  I'm going to have to cut it all out tonight, but whatever it takes for the love of the sport.  I love the sport.   
 Q.  Do you remember the last time you rode a guy that long?  
JACK MUELLER: Oh, DeSanto last year, pretty sure I had six and a half minutes of riding time on him, so I always have that because we all know that kid.  But yeah, it felt good.  I knew watching him wrestle Micic, it was like, you can't really defend his legs.  He's very offensive.  But I'm very offensive, too.  If I can get into my offense first, I'll score, and I can ride.   
 Q.  Talk about your match with Lee tomorrow night?  
JACK MUELLER: Match with Lee tomorrow night is going to come down to the mat.  He's amazing on top, and everyone knows it.  And I'd like to think I'm pretty good on top myself.  But it's going to come down to the mat, mat wrestling for sure.   
 Q.  Spencer Lee last year at the NCAA tournament obviously looked pretty darned dominant.  This year there's been a couple what one might say was chinks in the armor, he took a couple defeats.  What's it going to take for you?  You did say the match would come down to the mat, but what's it going to take for Jack Mueller to overcome Spencer Lee who seems, when it comes to tournament time, is on his game?  
JACK MUELLER: My entire heart, you know, realizing that I've got a whole group of family, friends, coaches, teammates that are right behind me lifting me up every step of the way.  I believe in them.  They believe in me.  And I've got to know why I'm wrestling.  I'm doing it for the Lord, and that's it.  You've just got to know that it's just a game and I'm having fun.  That was fun for me.   
 Q.  Could you talk about going 57 kilograms at U-23s and coming back and getting into folkstyle mode?  
JACK MUELLER: Well, it took like a month before I made the decision, but I took two weeks off and got pretty heavy, eating a lot, you know.  So 57 was tough to make the weight, but I had a whole month and a half where I was cutting.  College season is like every weekend, so got to stay on my diet, can't have any cheat meals, unlike when you're cutting for six weeks like the fighters do.  You get some cheat meals here and there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT