RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 2, 2015
Nanna Koerstz Madsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. 65 is great to finish off a major championship. How are you feeling?   
NANNA MADSEN: Really great. It's my first major, so it's good to finish with a good round. I played the last two days, I didn't play my best and I had some really hard conditions the last‑‑ weather conditions the last two days. Nice to come out in better weather today.  
   
 Q. Did you know the course record was 7‑under par when you were getting around that mark?   
NANNA MADSEN: No.   
   
 Q. So you didn't know that you tied it?   
NANNA MADSEN: No, I didn't know that.   
   
 Q. Overall, the experience of links golf, have you played it before much?   
NANNA MADSEN: Yeah, played some tournaments in my amateur career. I actually didn't like links. It was really, really hard with the wind. Yeah. But now I like it a little better.   
   
 Q. So Saturday and Friday, you had quite bad weather. Today you kind of feel like it was a bit less windy?  
NANNA MADSEN: Yeah, on the front nine it was less windy. So the front nine was easier than the other days. But the back nine was still hard.   
   
 Q. Any particular shots that stand out for you out there today?   
NANNA MADSEN: On 13, I haven't made a par yet. So I was just really focusing on just getting a par on No. 13. So I made a really good 4‑iron into the green and then a 2‑putt.   
On 16, you are always happy to get a par in that wind. And of course I had a lot of good putts out there.   
   
 Q. I heard you say earlier it was the hot putter that really helped the round?  
NANNA MADSEN: My putter was really good. I don't think I had that many putts.  
   
 Q. The pin positions today, are they tougher than previous?   
NANNA MADSEN: No, I don't think so.   
   
 Q. So quite attackable for the leaders?   
NANNA MADSEN: Yeah, 16 is a lot easier than it's been the other days.   
   
 Q. How were the conditions? No wind, or little wind.   
NANNA MADSEN: The front nine was not as windy as now. It's been less windy than the other days I played. But the back nine was still a lot of wind.   
   
 Q. So did you have eight birdies today?   
NANNA MADSEN: Yeah, eight birdies.   
   
 Q. This is a fantastic score. How do you feel about the way you played?   
NANNA MADSEN: Very happy. Played really relaxed out there. I didn't really have anything to reach. I was way behind all the leaders. I just played last and saw what's coming.  
   
 Q. How many major championships?   
NANNA MADSEN: First major.   
   
 Q. How do you feel about your performance overall?   
NANNA MADSEN: I'm satisfied with my performance.   
   
 Q. Red‑hot putter?  
NANNA MADSEN: Yeah, I'm really glad because I've been struggling with my putter for the last month, two months. Now I feel it's coming back. Really glad.  
   
 Q. Is there any particular feeling with the putter, anything technical that you've changed?   
NANNA MADSEN: Actually I've been really confused with my putter. I was trying everything, everything technical I've been through the last five years, and nothing worked.  
I just saw my old coach and he told me that it was just one thing I had to change, and then it just gave me some confidence.   
   
 Q. Who is your old coach?   
NANNA MADSEN: John Deitz (ph). He's Danish.   
   
 Q. Why are the Danish players so strong this year?   
NANNA MADSEN: I think we do have good coaches in Denmark. Why are we so good? We were also kind of a group growing up together, pushing each other. I think that's one of the reasons why we came forward.  
NICKY HANSEN: Good coaches maybe.   
   
 Q. You're a coach, as well?   
NICKY HANSEN: I am. Not a main coach as a national coach, but I'm a coach, as well. The Danes do very well. They swing good. I think the key is the speed on the driving. You see today on the back nine when you play against the wind, she's 240, 250 meters. So 16, she had 125, and then 190 is her playing partner. So you won't be able to reach on the par 5s, it's also going to be easier.   
And then the putter. The putter is always good. So if you're in the fairway‑‑ a good tee time today was the key and good playing. That's the game.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT