HUGEL-AIR PREMIA LA OPEN
April 26, 2019
Nanna Koerstz Madsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You missed the cut here last year and find yourself in contention.  What did you learn last year?  
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN: Well, last year my game wasn't very good.  I was just struggling all year last year, so I think it's really just my game got better.  I really like this course and I think it's a really good place.   
 Q.  What is your favorite part of the course?  
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN: I like if you hit a good drive you get rewarded and you don't have too far on the green, but if you're a little bit off line then it gets hard.   
Yeah, I like it.  There is a little bit -- it's not too short, but you still have quite a lot of wedges in, so still some good birdie chances out there.   
 Q.  The biggest change in your game from last year to this year?  
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN: Mostly just mentally.  I mean, last year I was kind of afraid to hit every shot I was playing.  Now I'm just trying to relax a little bit more and just say if I shoot plus-7 that's okay, and if I shoot minus-7, that's good, too.   
Yeah, just trying to be more relaxed about it.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN: It's a lot easier and it's more fun playing.  It's not very fun to play if you're afraid to hit the ball.   
 Q.  What are you hoping to take away for your game going into the weekend?  
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN: I don't know.  I've been driving the ball quite well so I haven't really been into any big problems.  I would like to hit them a little bit more close for my irons.   
My wedges has been really good or really bad, so, yeah, maybe hit a little bit of them on the range.   
But my putting has been good, so I want to continue that.   
 Q.  You had quite a hot start out there.  A bunch of birdies on the front nine.  Take us through what that was like for you and how were feeling out there.  
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN: I was just trying to be relaxed.  I don't know, I have a tendency to get a little bit mad on the course, so right at that moment I'm trying to not get upset about anything and trying to be in the same mood all day long.   
 Q.  Does your caddie help you range in the emotions when you do get a little upset?  
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN: Yeah, but sometimes it's better that he actually doesn't say anything, that I'm just in myself and trying to find my way through it.   
 Q.  Have you learned through that from your rookie year to now?  
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN: I've always had like anger problems on the course.  It's not something that changed from last year.  It's just been less always.  But I've been working on it and still working on it.   
 Q.  How did it feel to tee off in the morning, especially on these greens out here, typical California greens?  How was it adjusting to maybe some of your tee times yesterday?  
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN: Well, yesterday back nine got really bumpy because of the poana.  They grew it differently and there was quite a lot of spike marks, but this morning it was perfect.  They were rolling really nice.   
Yeah, it was good.  I prefer the morning tee times here for sure.   
 Q.  So there is a lot of girls kind of all in the same number range, under-4, under-5, under-6.  What is your mindset to just finishing out this tournament?  
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN: I think I'm just going to stick to what I'm doing so far, trying to stay calm and don't get too emotional if I make a bogey and not emotional if I make an eagle or a birdie.  Just try and stay one level kind of.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT