BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 22, 2019
Nanna Koerstz Madsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Another solid day for you today.  How was your round?
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN: It was a little bit actually more stable today.  I just didn't drop as many putts as yesterday.  It wasn't bad, but just not everything didn't went in.
But it was all right.  Yeah.
Q. How did it play differently today compared to yesterday afternoon?
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN: We had a little bit more wind yesterday afternoon so it was actually maybe a little bit easier today.  It was pretty much the same.
Q. I wanted to ask, yesterday you were talking about working in the off-season, about being more relaxed being on the LPGA.  How do you work on being more relaxed?
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN: Well, I'm just trying to tell myself that it's not life or death.  You've got to enjoy being out here.  Just trying to do something else.  I mean, now we're going to a mall and just go shopping.
So, yeah, I'm not going to go to the range now and spend two hours trying to work on my driver, even though maybe I should.  It's probably not going to work differently tomorrow.
Yeah, just trying to, yeah, be more relaxed about it.
Q. Is that something last year would you have spent a ton of time on the range after your round?
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN: Yeah, I would.  I would.  If I had something I didn't like, I would go work on it.
Q. Okay.  So do you do different stuff at night to just take your mind off golf?
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN: No, I mean, it's not that I'm not allowed to think about golf.  I can still think about golf.  It's just trying to be not as stressful before a tournament and just see how it goes.  If I miss a cut, I miss a cut.  Next week I might make a cut or something.
Q. Does that become more difficult when you see your name towards the top of the leaderboard?
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN: I mean, obviously when you see your name on the leaderboard you just want to keep on making more birdies and play good.
I just tried and tell myself today that 4-under would be a good score.  It would be good to follow up a round like yesterday with a 4-under.  That was kind of my goal today.  That's what I was focusing on mostly.
Q. Any goals for the weekend?
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN: Around 5-under would be good.
Q. So you like to set a --
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN: 3-under score is good as well out here.  I wouldn't be not happy with that.
Q. Do you like to set scores like that for yourself before every round?
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN: I do.  Yeah, I do.  My coach and my caddie always tells me that's not a good idea.  I just like to just because sometime I get too stressful if I think I should be 4-under and I'm only 1-under.
Then if I said 3-under it's what I was thinking about, then you still have chance to be 3-under, so it's still okay.  So kind of helps me sometimes, but sometimes it doesn't.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT