PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY SEEPUERTORICO.COM
March 7, 2014
James Driscoll
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   James Driscoll, 63.   This is the second time you've shot 63 out here.   What was clicking out there for you today?
JAMES DRISCOLL:   I had the putter going pretty hot today, and I was fortunate, I hit a bunch of shots pretty close, too.   I judged the wind‑‑ luckily I read the wind right a couple of times.   The wind was pumping pretty good.   It was blowing about 20 miles an hour, but there were a few times I had some cross winds and just judged it perfectly and hit it in there to about a foot or so.   So I kind of got away with some good shots there in the wind and holed a bunch of putts.

Q.   So kind of more like hitting hoping the wind around here.   I understand this playing here and Hawaii a few times.   Any keys you look for when playing in the wind like that?
JAMES DRISCOLL:   I mean you just gotta hit it solid.   If you hit it solid, you can predict where the ball's going to go, but if you kind of miss it a little bit, then the wind's going to take advantage of your ball.
But I was hitting the irons really solid.   I wasn't hitting it great off the tee, but the irons were really solid, so that kind of gave me a chance coming into those pins.

Q.   Let's talk about some really important stuff.   University of Virginia basketball.   I actually happen to be kind of friends with Tony Bennett on a side note.   How pumped are you right now for Virginia Basketball? 
JAMES DRISCOLL:   It's going to be a fun next couple of weeks, that's for sure.   I truthfully hadn't been following it that closely and then I sat down and watched that entire Syracuse game and it was really fun to watch.   They've got a beast of a team.   It's going to be fun to see in the next few weeks.

Q.   Any chance of them being the No. 1 seed?
JAMES DRISCOLL:   I wouldn't be shocked.   Yeah, you could argue they deserve it for sure.

Q.   Great game today.   You shot 63 today?
JAMES DRISCOLL:   Yeah.   Thank you very much.   The wind was blowing pretty hard out there this afternoon, but I was lucky enough to hole a bunch of putts and hit some irons in there close.   It was a great day.

Q.   Yeah.   We saw the last shot here on the 18th.   So why do you think how the golf course has been playing since yesterday and today?   Any changes that you've seen?
JAMES DRISCOLL:   Not too much.   We've got a little bit of rain.   It's kept it kind of soft, kept the greens a little bit soft and the fairways a little bit softer, but the wind's been really consistent the last two days, so it's kind of really been playing similar the last two days.

Q.   What's your expectations for tomorrow?   Any plans for tomorrow?
JAMES DRISCOLL:   No, not really.   I mean we're only halfway there, so I'm going to just keep trying to do what I'm doing, maybe hole some putts and keep trying to hit it solid.

Q.   First time here in Puerto Rico or have you been here before?
JAMES DRISCOLL:   I've been here before.

Q.   How would you compare‑‑ I don't know if you remember your 63 here in 2011.   How would you compare the two rounds?
JAMES DRISCOLL:   No.   Kind of different.   The first 63 I was‑‑ I think I was 11 under with like three or four holes to go and made two bogeys coming in, and this one was just kind of I just kept chipping away at it and birdied the last to get to 63.   So they were a little bit different, but both pretty special, both holed a bunch of putts and just one of those days where you hit some iron shots close and make a mile of putts.

Q.   What is it about this course?   Does it suit your eye, obviously?
JAMES DRISCOLL:   Yeah.   I love the greens.   There's something about these greens that the ball rolls true.   Even at the end of the day when people have been walking on them all day, they're really resilient to footprints, and I feel like you get a good roll on them all day long. 
So I love the greens.   And from tee to green it gives you a little bit of room.   If you play smart and manage your game, you can kind of get away with it.   You don't have to hit perfect golf shots all day long.   As long as you manage your game well, you can kind of keep yourself in there.

Q.   You said you've played here a few times back in '97 in college?
JAMES DRISCOLL:   No.   Rio Mar.   I've been to Puerto Rico a few times.   He asked me if I'd ever been to Puerto Rico.   But yeah, I came here four times in college to Rio Mar, and then I've played this tournament I think almost every time, so I've been coming to Puerto Rico a lot.

Q.   Did you guys have any success in the college?
JAMES DRISCOLL:   Nothing extraordinary, no.   But I remember liking coming here in college.   I felt like we were really lucky to be able to come here and come to kind of a tropical place and enjoy a little different atmosphere.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT