HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2009
James Driscoll
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome James Driscoll into the interview room after a 4-under par 66. James, I know disappointing finish there for you but still a good day overall. If we can just get some comments on the day. 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Yeah, it wasn't obviously the way I wanted to finish, but I'm not too disappointed. I'm in a great position going into the weekend, so I'll just keep trying to do it all day.
 JOHN BUSH: Take us through those last couple holes, the two bogeys there. What happened? 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: I hit the middle of the green on 17, had kind of a tricky putt. I liked the first putt I hit and I liked the second putt I hit, just didn't go in. 
 18 was just stuck behind a tree in the right trees and had no chance so had to punch out and made bogey.

 Q. You had an eagle on 12, didn't you?
 JAMES DRISCOLL: I did. I drove it down the middle of the fairway and knocked a 6-iron in the hole from like 177 or something. 

 Q. That kind of helps a round, doesn't it?
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Yeah, it was great. Unfortunately I bogeyed the next, so kind of gave it back a little bit. But it was -- I did a lot of things great out there today, so I'm just going to try to focus on that and keep it going.

 Q. And then on 5 you got revenge from yesterday, correct? 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: 5, yep. I hit a good little 7-iron in there to about 10 feet and made it. Yesterday was a little bit of a debacle.

 Q. What happened yesterday on that one?
 JAMES DRISCOLL: I was in between clubs, tried to hit a hard 8 and I pulled it and had a tricky chip and just -- the green goes like this off both sides, so I was over here and then went down the other side and had another tricky chip and didn't get that one up-and-down, either, so double.

 Q. As you said, you're not disappointed overall, but how do you keep that mindset of letting something get away, ending the way you did?
 JAMES DRISCOLL: I'm not really even thinking about it. I liked the way that I approached all the shots coming in. Like I wasn't nervous, I wasn't thinking anything different than I did for the last two days. I mean, you hit bad shots. That's what happens. It stinks to end like that, but I did a lot of things great out there, too, so it's kind of what I'm going to focus on. 

 Q. You've really strung together some good play here the last two weeks. Are you just kind of riding that momentum from San Antonio?
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Yeah, no question, just kind of working on some good things in my swing and kind of in my head, too. They're both kind of clicking at the same time. It's fun, fun to play golf like this. 

 Q. Last week did you take positives out of that?
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Yeah. I never even anticipated getting into the playoff. I mean, when I finished at 15-under last week, there were still -- at one point I think there were four or five guys at 15-under with three holes to play, and I didn't think -- I would have been happy with a third- or fourth-place finish. I was just psyched to shoot a great round on Sunday, 62. How could I be disappointed? I felt fortunate to even be in a playoff. It's not like I bogeyed the playoff hole or anything; he stuck it in there and made birdie. I didn't do anything wrong. I'm not disappointed one bit after last week.

 Q. Do you still feel that momentum from last week? Did you feel that early this week coming in?
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Definitely. I was kind of exhausted Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday a little bit. My head was kind of out of it in the practice rounds. I was a little sloppy. But I kind of got focused on Thursday and was able to harness some of the good things that I was doing last week. 

 Q. How strange of a game is it, three straight -- before you got to San Antonio you had three straight missed cuts. I'm guessing that you probably weren't far off on making those. And then here you go second last week and in contention again this week. 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Yeah, it's tough. It just takes one little thing for anyone out here to get on a hot roll. Even the off weeks that I've had up until last week, I wasn't far off, because every time I'd go home I'd practice great and play great and then come out in the tournament and do something stupid and miss the cut. I kind of -- I knew I was close. I knew I just needed something good to go my way, and I've gotten some good breaks over the last couple weeks, and that helps a lot.

 Q. So it wasn't anything you changed in your swing?
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Not really, not in the swing. I mean, I talked to the mental coach that I've been working with this year, and we kind of worked on some things that clicked, and that was probably the biggest difference. 
 JOHN BUSH: Let's go through the card real quick. You took care of a few of the holes, but No. 3? 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: I hit a good drive, hit a 6-iron in there about 20 feet and made it, had kind of a tricky left-to-right putt, but made it.
 Par-3, No. 5, a 7-iron to about ten feet.
 Par-5, No. 7, hit it in the rough, had to lay up to about 70 yards, hit it about 12 feet. 
 Par-4, 11th, hit it in the bunker off the tee, hit it to about 12 feet, made it.
 Bogey on 13, plugged it in the bunker right of the pin and had a tough shot. Hit it to 30 feet and missed it.
 Birdie on 16, driver, 5-iron to 25 feet and missed it but then tapped in for birdie. 
 JOHN BUSH: James, thanks for coming by. Play well this weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT