VALERO TEXAS OPEN
May 17, 2009
James Driscoll
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MARK STEVENS: I'd like to thank James Driscoll for taking the time to come back in. James, if you'd just kind of give us your thoughts on obviously the playoff and how that ended up and then we'll take a couple questions. 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: I don't know. I mean he made a good birdie. I mean what are you going to do? 
 If that was just a regular hole throughout the tournament, I would have said I played the hole okay. It's not like I totally screwed it up or anything. I hit it 25, 30 feet and gave a decent run at it. 
 I didn't do as well as I would have liked, but he made a nice birdie. He made a great birdie, so what are you going to do? 

 Q. You had to wait almost two hours, I guess, before you got out there and played again. 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Yeah. That didn't really affect me. I spent like a half hour on the range just staying loose. So it's definitely nice to finish off your round, sign your card and go back out, kind of like playing just a 19th hole, you know. 
 But I felt fine. On that tee shot I felt fine, and I did not feel like it affected me at all.

 Q. What do you take out of this? Do you really feel like you've maybe turned a corner here, take some momentum into the next few events?
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Yeah. I hope so. It's nice to -- you know, I didn't feel like I played like unbelievable golf. 
 I mean I played great today, but the first three days, I just played kind of solid, and it's nice to get four days like that under my belt, when I especially haven't been playing particularly well or particularly that much. 
 I've only gotten in six events or something and haven't really gotten in any rhythm, and it's nice that next week I'll get in and play two in a row and just hopefully play some more tournaments and get into a little rhythm.

 Q. In a sudden-death playoff as opposed to four holes or 18, when your opponent hits a really fine shot in there before you do, I don't think you could see the ball, could you?
 JAMES DRISCOLL: No.

Q. But you knew from the reaction 
that --
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Yeah. I figured it was about 10 feet.

 Q. Okay. Does that affect you at all? Did it affect you today?
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Not really. It didn't really affect the shot I was trying to hit. I mean I was still trying to hit it two yards right of the flag, and just put a good swing on it, and I just kind of fanned on it just a hair. 
 And it was still a good shot. I hit it pretty solid, and the putt I just missed by a little bit. 
 I mean it doesn't help when the guy hits 6-wood in there and the crowd goes nuts. I mean it doesn't help when you know you gotta hit a great shot. It's a lot easier when he puts it in the bunker or something, but it didn't really rattle me or anything. 

 Q. Bobby had made some reference when he talked to you on the air about you've been working on your swing, and I just wondered who you've been working with. Have you gone through a little bit of changes with your swing?
 JAMES DRISCOLL: The last two years I've taken a couple of lessons. I've only taken probably three or four lessons in the last two years. I have been mostly just working on my game on my own for the most part.
 You know, I've learned a lot of things from the Stack and Tilt guys, and they helped me a lot, but then I think I overdid some stuff and kind of got sideways with it. And then kind of just worked on it from there. They gave me a ton of information. I just kind of sifted through it myself.

 Q. So it's a variation of Stack and Tilt without the full --
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Yeah. I tried it for a while, and it worked great for a while. I just think I overdid some things, like I said, and just kind of got going backwards. But then there's a lot of good information there, and I kind of kept what I liked, and tried to add a little bit, what felt good. 

 Q. I know it's hard to digest at this point, but the paycheck today, does it do anything as far as you talked about your 15 events this year. Does this do anything for you?
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Oh, yeah. First of all, Top 10 gets me in next week, and I've made 20 grand or something this year, so that's huge for just my job, security for hopefully, first of all, confidence to play the rest of the tournaments. And then I don't even know what I got, but it's definitely going to go a long way towards the Top 125, too. 
 But when you get that close to a win and that close to going to Augusta and going to Hawaii for the first tournament of the year, it's a little disappointing, too.
 MARK STEVENS: Okay. Thanks a lot, James. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT