AT&T CLASSIC
May 17, 2008
James Driscoll
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. James, on moving day you made a move. 66, that's pretty sporty.   
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Yeah, thanks. It was definitely improvement over the last two days which were kind of frustrating. Hit the ball really well last couple days and didn't get much out of it. And today got the ball in the hole pretty quickly.  
  
  Q. Tell me about the Eagle at 15; chipped in right? You didn't drive the green?  
 JAMES DRISCOLL: I tried to. I saw Dustin Johnson fly it pin high and go to the back edge which was something I didn't think I'd see. But I kind of skirted one up there about 20 yards short and hit a really good shot. Yesterday I made bogey on that hole so it was kind of a nice redemption.  
  
  Q. You know, we've followed you here the last few weeks. You're putting a lot of time in on the practice range working on your game. Are you seeing results?  
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Yes. I think I'm hitting the ball a lot better than I was, say, two months ago. I was kind of struggling, started working on something that's kind of starting to click, and I'm hitting it a lot more solid.  
  
  Q. Short game was good today?  
 JAMES DRISCOLL: That's right. Yeah, I got the ball in the hole pretty quickly with the putter and, you know, the chipping was pretty good too.   
 So definitely a lot tidier than the last two days.  
  
  Q. All right, I have to ask you a question about Boston sports because I know you love your Red Sox, Celtics, Patriots. What's the biggest story right now? Is it the Celtics Game 7, Spygate, Red Sox? In your mind, what's the biggest story in B-Town?  
 JAMES DRISCOLL: It's got to be the Celtics. It's a great atmosphere. I went to Game 1 against Cleveland last week. It's got a pretty good buzz in the air right now. And the Celtics are at home so hopefully they can squeeze out a victory tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Hopefully you'll keep playing well tomorrow?  
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Yeah, that would be nice.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT