FBR OPEN
February 2, 2006
James Driscoll
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  James Driscoll, thanks for joining us after a great day today, 5 under par 66, headed into great position going into Friday's round.  Just talk about your day.
JAMES DRISCOLL:  I played pretty solid.  I really got away with it a couple times.  I hit it almost out of play twice and got good bounces to kind of save my round.  On the 2nd hole I blew it    what hole was it?

The 2nd hole I pulled it way left, could have easily made bogey or double, bounced out into the first cut and made birdie.  I birdied my first three holes and then kind of held on, made back to back birdies on, I think 15 or    no, 15 and 17 I birdied.  So I birdied some of the easier holes and hung in there on the rest of the course.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Last year was your rookie year on Tour, almost won in New Orleans, lost in a playoff there, also missed a couple months with an injury.  Talk about your expectations going into 2006.
JAMES DRISCOLL:  I really just wanted to improve on last year.  I really didn't play all that well throughout the year consistency wise.  Especially New Orleans was one really good week.  If it wasn't for that tournament I definitely wouldn't have kept my card.  I want to be more consistent this year and just try to feel like    make more cuts.  I made less than half the cuts last year, so that was kind of my goal, just to play on more weekends and just give myself a chance.
Q.  And you're healthy going into this year?
JAMES DRISCOLL:  Yeah, very.  I feel good.
Q.  Just talk a little bit about 18.  That must have been kind of aggravating.
JAMES DRISCOLL:  Yeah, I was in three fairway bunkers today and chunked it out of all three of them.  I was about to go work on that before I came in here, but I don't know what's going on there.  I'd have like a full pitching wedge out of the fairway bunker, which isn't the easiest shot in the world.  It's almost easier to hit a 5 iron out of there.  But some of the sand out there is pretty soft.
Q.  Did you feel like you made a good putt, though?
JAMES DRISCOLL:  Yeah, that was probably one of the better putts I hit today, definitely.
Q.  First time playing the course this week, how do you feel about it and how is it playing to your game?
JAMES DRISCOLL:  A lot easier than last year.  I played here last year in the cold and wind, and it was a nightmare.  I think I shot 80 the first round.  It's nice to come out to the desert and get some warm air and no wind.  I think it's playing a lot easier than last year and a lot easier than years past.  The rough is not too bad and the greens are not too fast, so the scores I think are going to be pretty low.
Q.  Playing tomorrow morning will be a lot colder, 50, 55, and how do you adjust your game to that?  And by the time you end it's 60 or 65.
JAMES DRISCOLL:  The ball just doesn't go anywhere in the morning when it's 50, 60 degrees out.  It almost goes shorter    I base everything off sea level because that's kind of where I grew up playing.  So in the morning it goes shorter than sea level, and then in the afternoon it starts going further.  You definitely have to be aware of what the temperature is and how far the ball is going because you can be tricked out here pretty easily.
Q.  Andrew talked about getting a lot of roll.  He said he hit a 3 wood into 15 a couple days ago, 5 iron today.  Your thoughts about that?  Are you in comfortable places with your drives with what you were able to practice earlier in the week?
JAMES DRISCOLL:  I sprayed it around a little bit today so I wasn't really getting the benefit of the roll.  If you're hitting it straight, length isn't really that big of a deal because if you're hitting it straight everyone is going to be hitting it over 300, for the most part.
Q.  Does that have much to do with the dryness out there?
JAMES DRISCOLL:  Yeah, definitely.  The fairways are firm.  The greens will get firm, too, I'm sure, in the next couple days, which will make it a lot more difficult.
Q.  Fairway bunkers now, is that the plan?
JAMES DRISCOLL:  Yeah, I've got to figure that out.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  James, thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT