U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 22, 2001
James Driscoll
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JAMES DRISCOLL:  Well, totally different situation.  Jay was a great player and I had never heard of him, but I could just tell on the first tee that he was a kind of guy that could sneak up on you and the kind of guy you never heard of but could sneak up and do some crazy things at the end of the match like he was expecting him to chip in.  I know he's played a long time, has a lot of experience.  But I can't even compare it to last year's match so I'm not going to try.  But I'm just glad to be playing tomorrow. 
 
JAMES DRISCOLL:  I actually felt pretty good about my game at the Walker Cup.  I felt I made some strides in the right direction that week.  My swing was getting a little better there I felt and I still feel like it's playing okay.  It showed two days ago a 64 that was a great round.  I played great.  I actually shot 65 here in a practice round too so I've been playing, hitting the ball and putting well.  So today wasn't as good, but I could still feel that it was there.  I hit some good shots but the Lee three iron I hit on 18 was made me feel really good.  I was struggling there.  
 
Q.  You probably know about 80 percent of the guys here, but you draw a guy you know nothing about?
 
JAMES DRISCOLL:  A little scary.  It's a little scary.  Because you know he's played some good golf to get into match play.  And he's probably feels like he's got nothing to lose.  He could have his day.  But he's a great player.  I was just trying to play the golf course as well as I could.  I didn't do a very good job of it.  But it was just good enough.  
 
Q.  After your loss in the finals last year, have you focused on just getting back here and trying to get through this again?
 
JAMES DRISCOLL:  No, I am really glad I chose to stick around for Walker Cup and played in this one more time.  Just to make it my last Am Tour event and just, I just love playing in this tournament.  Whether, no matter how I do.  So I'm not really like extra determined to get to the finals or win the tournament.  It's too hard to on Monday expect to win the tournament or think about winning the tournament.  You got no chance.  You need so much luck.  So I'm just happy to really to be in matchplay.  I'm happy I made the cut.  And just take it one match at a time.  If I can.  
 
Q.  Is tomorrow the hardest day?
 
JAMES DRISCOLL:  Every day is, every match is the exact same.  Can't take one any lighter than any other.  No match is any harder than another.  You can lose in any match, so.  But being 36 holes, might make it a little harder.  
 
Q.  How do you feel experience-wise all you do in the last year playing in the Walker Cup, the Master and then  --
 
JAMES DRISCOLL:  I feel like it's helped a lot.  I feel last year at this time I had played well all summer.  Played consistently and I felt really good about my game.  I feel pretty similar this year.  I had a bunch of top finishes in the northeast, the Porter Cup, big tournaments I played pretty good.  Not great but good enough where I know my game is there.  Not exactly peaking at this time, but. 
 
JAMES DRISCOLL:  Thank you.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT