U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 27, 2000
James Driscoll
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: I'm sorry, what are you -- 
 
Q. What are your feelings right now?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: I just wish we could have finished it tonight. Not because, you know, I
might have had some momentum, but just to, you know, get it over with tonight would have
been so much better. But I kind of got to forget about that. I know what we have to do, we
have to come out tomorrow morning at 9 o'clock and play a pretty tough par 3. That's what
I have to focus on, I have to forget that we couldn't get it done tonight. 
 
Q. Talk about the three-putt on 14.
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Didn't look good. When I three-putted 14, I thought this is pretty much
over. I never really gave up I was just kind of being realistic, three down, four to go,
I'm like if I'm in his shoes, I'm feeling pretty good. But, you know, dormie three, he
kind of messes up the 16th hole, the four on 17 was pretty good, up-and-down, I probably
could never get that up-and-down again. Pretty excited just going to the 18th tee. I think
I was too excited. I didn't want to swing out of my shoes and do anything crazy, I think I
kind of went the other way and kind of eased up to try to overcompensate for all the
excitement and lost it way right. Somehow made four there, made a five-footer, a pretty
good up-and-down there from one four and four. 
 
Q. Ever had a comeback like that before? Under this kind of a circumstance I guess I
should ask.
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Me, I can tell you there was one comeback in the state -- Massachusetts
Amateur, two down with two to go or something like that. I kind of had a very similar
feeling, actually. It was when I saw this putt go down in the Massachusetts Am, chills
went up my spine just like they did on 17 here, so it's pretty similar. 
 
Q. James, take us to the putt on 17. Obviously you had the bunch trickle out on you
today. What was the confidence at that time?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: I don't know. I didn't have any more or any less confidence than I
always do over a putt. I just -- it was a pretty tough putt though. It was way outside the
hole probably, cup, cup and a half, left-to-right, downhill, one of those putts --
downhill left-to-right, no one likes those. But I kind of just tried to gather myself and
look at the line and hit it right on the line. It was -- it did exactly what I thought it
was gonna do. 
 
Q. 18 in the woods up against the pinecone, did you even think of moving the pinecone?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: No, I'm pretty sure the ball was touching the pinecone. I wasn't gonna
risk a two-shot shot penalty at that point. 
 
Q. Did you have to hit the pinecone?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Yeah, I had to hit the pinecone before the ball. 
 
Q. You had a lot of options on that hole, could have gone several different directions.
Why did you choose the direction you went?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: I don't think that direction was any worse or any more difficult to get
through. It was just -- and it was getting me further up the fairway. I basically had
three options and the other two options weren't great, so I figured, "Hey, I might as
well go as far up as I can if I don't have a great sideways option." 
 
Q. What did you hit for your third shot?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: A pitching wedge. 
 
Q. From 144 you said?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: I had 145 to the hole, figure it was playing about 140. 
 
Q. You were struggling a little bit with your putting earlier today. Was there anything
particular that was giving you problems?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: I don't know what it was. I just, you know, right from the get-go I
missed a short one on 1 and I think sometimes with me, my putting is very much determined
on how I putt in the beginning of the round. And I missed some putts early on and that
kind of maybe kept me from putting really aggressive strokes on it for the rest of the
day. But I really don't feel like I put a lot of bad strokes on it. I don't know what was
going on with my putter. I think it might have been some misreads, left out a couple of
putts. It might have been one of those days, I don't know. 
 
Q. Were a lot of those putts above the hole, too?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: A lot of them were, right. Actually my coach, Mike Morgan, I kind of
brought him over to the putting green before the afternoon round. He did say that -- I
said, "I missed a bunch of putts." He said, "Yeah, but you were on the
wrong side of the hole a lot of those times," and that kind of made me realize that
the putts I had weren't straight uphill 3-footers, they were kind of slick, you can't put
a firm stroke on it, you just kind of tap it and hope it rolls true. So that is true. 
 
Q. You kind of stood there at 18 when that putt went down. What were your emotions?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: I can't believe it went in. It caught the right edge and snuck in. Just
thanking God at that point. 
 
Q. What did your coach say to you? He's seen you in competitive situations for the past
four years.
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: He said my stroke looked good when we were on the putting green. He
said, you know, I was concerned of whether my putter face was square or not. Because I
missed a couple of those left. Sometimes my putter face gets a little shut. He said it
looked good, my stroke looked good. Still, if you don't see the ball go in the hole, it's
tough to believe that, but, you know, hopefully I can trust it tomorrow morning. 
 
Q. At any point after, let's see -- I think you missed the 4-footer and then you had
the 3-putt on 14. Is there any point you're thinking, "Hey, I've blown this"?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Kind of, yeah. I mean when I'm four-down and I'm like -- I've missed
way too many short putts, you know, I was just like you can't win this tournament missing
putts like that. Kind of. I never really thought I'd blown it because the match was never
over, so... But I was definitely disappointed. 
 
Q. What about that 40-minute delay you guys had there? Did that help you at all, hurt
you at all?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: I think it helped. I was starting to feel really tired at that point. I
got to put my legs up, had a banana and some water. I think when I came back out I felt a
lot better. 
 
Q. On 8 when your backswing got caught in the tree, did you think about stopping the
swing?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: The same situation happened to me in the Northeast Amateur this year. I
was trying to hit a 3-wood out of the trees, got caught, broke like a branch, stopped my
swing, it's a two-stroke penalty. So I figured over that shot, I was looking at my
backswing, I didn't think it was in the way; I didn't think the branches were in the way.
When I got caught, I said I got to at least try to hit it because it's one-stroke penalty,
it's a whiff. If you stop, it's a two-stroke penalty. I had to keep going. 
 
Q. All that was going through your mind while the club was up?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Yeah, basically. (Laughter.) I knew it before, I just took it back. At
the same time, I didn't think the trees were in my way. But when I was back there, I was
like I still got to keep going. 
 
Q. Quick thinking. Good thing you think quicker than you play. When you had taken the
swing though, you didn't really take a real full swing with the 3-wood, did you?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: I don't know. I guess my practice swing isn't like my real swing. 
 
Q. Did you feel like you dodged a bullet in that hole though?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Definitely. When he hit above the hole there, I thought I can still
maybe get out with a half and I did. 
 
Q. Jeff referred to that bunker shot on 17 as the hardest shot in golf. Do you agree
with that?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: That's what everyone says, a 50-, 60-whatever-yard bunker shot. A
friend of mine kind of taught me something how to do out of that situation. It's tough,
you can't blast it, it's way too long to blast. There's really no other way to play it
except kind of try to punch hook it. If you hook it, the club's turning over and it's
going to definitely get through the sand. If you come through with a regular club face,
you know, you're most likely going to hit it fat. So that's what I did and I'm pretty
thankful he taught me how to hit that shot about six years ago. 
 
Q. How in the world, I mean the last two -- you had two like 7-, 8-, 10-foot putts,
whatever, you have to make them to keep going. A whole day has gone by. You have not been
making these putts. What are you telling yourself at that point?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Nothing. I don't think about, you know, I don't really think about
everything that's surrounding the situation. I just look at this eight-footer, it's got a
cup and a half of break and I've got to hit it on that line and that's what I tried to do.
Part of me might have been thinking deep down that I was due to hole a putt, but as soon
as you say that, "I'm due to hole a putt," you're not going to hole a putt. You
have to go through your same routine and hope it works out. I said that a lot, I'm due,
and I never made any. 
 
Q. Did you feed off the crowd at all? Last couple holes it seems they were definitely
pro you, maybe not as much as Jeff?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Definitely. I've got so much family and so many friends here, it was
great. It was great -- I got kind of fired up when they were yelling. 
 
Q. Good luck tomorrow.
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Thanks. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT