U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 26, 2000
James Driscoll
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Yeah, feeling really good. I'm psyched to be in the Finals. I played a
lot better today than I did against Jerry Courville, which makes me feel good. I would
have been a little bit scared having played, you know, the same way I did against
Courville, not really knowing where the ball was going. But today I played a lot better.
So I'm feeling a lot better -- I'm feeling pretty good about going into tomorrow. By no
means overconfident, but I feel like I've got a little bit back of how I was playing
earlier in the week. 
 
Q. What got you going today?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Well, I hit balls last night, and that helped a lot I think. I just
tried to tighten up my swing a little bit. My putting stroke was a lot better today, too,
was a lot shorter. My face of my putts was better, I don't think I three-putted at all.
I'd say the putting was probably the bigger difference than the ball-striking actually. 
 
Q. Take us through the round with the wins and losses most of all?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: The first hole, we both missed the green. I made like a -- he made a
bogey, I made a 12-footer for par to win that hole and go one-up. Then he hit it about a
foot on 2 and won that hole. Then he hit it about 20 feet on 3 and won that hole. And then
we have, up until the 9th hole, I made a 25-footer for birdie to square the match. Then on
10, he made a bogey, he missed like a 6-footer, I made like a 4-footer for par. Then we
both birdied 11. He birdied 12 to square the match. Then on 13, he made like maybe a
double. I don't know. He kind of hit it in the hazard and then chopped it out and hit it
over the green. He gave me my par putt basically after he had hit, I think, five shots. So
-- and then we tied a couple holes until 16, I hit it to about a foot and won that hole to
go dormie, too. And then we both parred, parred 17. 
 
Q. So overall, you would consider this a pretty good day?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Pretty good. No bogeys, three birdies. I think any time in a U.S. Am,
the way they have the course set up, if you can make no bogeys that's the key because it
doesn't really give the opponent any gifts. He can't just win on a par, which is, I think
in Match Play, that's one of the most important things is not necessarily how many birdies
you make but just be there in every hole, which is what I did today. 
 
Q. Have you ever played tomorrow's opponent?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: No. I've never played with Jeff before. But he's obviously playing
great this week, so I'm sure we'll have a good match tomorrow. 
 
Q. What club did you hit into 16 and what was your yardage?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: I had 150, I think, to the hole. I hit a 9-iron. 
 
Q. If you win tomorrow, does this alter your plans to turn pro or at least your
timetable?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Certainly. Yeah, it would definitely -- if I were to win tomorrow, I
would definitely stay amateur through the -- take all those exemptions, no question about
it. 
 
Q. What about if you don't win, because by being in the Finals you're still exempt from
The Masters?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: I don't think I could pass that up either. I'd have to think about it.
It's a long time to wait and it kind of messes things up with the qualifying tournament
having to wait a whole other year. But I don't think any -- there's nothing that would
really outweigh playing at Augusta. I can't imagine skipping that. 
 
Q. James, you had talked yesterday about focusing on shutting out your opponent and
really just worrying about playing the golf course today. How difficult was that in
practice? You know, actually doing it today?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: I don't know. I felt very comfortable on the golf course today for some
reason. I felt a lot more comfortable than I did yesterday. And I really didn't have much
of a problem kind of hitting every shot, you know, as well as I possibly could. And, you
know, I didn't hit a ton -- I didn't hit all great shots but I tried to. That's basically
what I try to do no matter if I'm playing a Stroke Play tournament, a Match Play
tournament. It doesn't really matter what I'm playing or what kind of format. I'm always
just trying to play the same basically. I've always played like that basically my whole
life. So it's not that hard usually. 
 
Q. James, you were in some serious trouble on No. 8 and came back to have a hole around
the woods. Could you talk about what was going through your mind as you lined up that shot
in the woods and how important that was to you.
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: That was a pretty important half. After he hit his tee ball in the
trees, if I hit a good drive there, I have the advantage on that hole. I hit it further
into the trees. And I took kind of a gamble hitting it out of the trees there. I could
have gone out sideways but I would have had 300 yards in. So I went, took more of a risky
route and it paid off. I could hit -- I had 250. So I could hit it by the green,
up-and-down for five. So I definitely got rewarded with taking that risk of trying to go
up further, further up the fairway. But definitely could have hit a tree and come right
back pretty easily. The opening I had was pretty small. 
 
Q. Do you think by having that hole, you took something out of him? For him to see
where you were, in his mind he's got to think it's a good chance for you to make six
there, right?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: I don't know. I think he was -- maybe -- I don't know what he was
thinking. I'm pretty sure he was probably thinking that I would make five just because
that's the mentality you have to have in Match Play. But deep down, if you asked him
what's he gonna make in this hole, he might have maybe been thinking six. But that was
definitely a big up-and-down I made there for that five. 
 
Q. Think the putt on 11 was really big after he knocks it whatever to give you range,
then you have what was it, about a 6-, 8-footer?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: That was about five feet. That was a pretty big up-and-down, too. I'm
45 yards away, I know I have to get it up-and-down, he's already in for his four. So that
was huge. I think the whole stretch from 8, 9, 10, and 11 was huge for me. To have 8, to
win 9 with a birdie, to win 10 with a par and to have 11, I mean he could have -- that was
a stretch of holes where anything could have happened and everything went basically my
way, or we halved a hole. That was an important stretch. 
 
Q. When all the parts of your game are working and on, what do you see as the biggest
strength?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: The biggest strength, I don't know. I mean if everything's working,
everything's a strength. I don't know. In general I'd say my strength is probably -- I
don't know. My consistency. I'm pretty consistent. Like I'd say my weakest part is usually
my short irons, like 
 my -- a full sand wedge and a pitching wedge, a 9-iron, I usually don't hit those as
close to the hole as guys on Tour do, you know. That's probably my -- has been my biggest
weakness. But this week has been better. I've been hitting a lot more shots close to the
hole with those clubs. 
 
Q. You have such a big family, you have a built-in gallery almost following you. Can
you talk about what that means, how that may help you, just having all these people
pulling for you so close.
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: It's great. It's great that they're out there. I can see someone in my
family basically any time I look over my shoulder and it's 
 just -- it's nice to have them all here. I have a lot of friends here, too. So it's
just -- it just gives you a good overall feeling when you're on the golf course, a
comforting feeling that's pretty important to have. 
 
Q. Do you have much direct interaction with them out there in the fairways and around
the greens?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Not usually. Although one of my tee balls hit my brother in the butt.
So there was some direct interaction there. But other than that... 
 
Q. What hole was that?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: On 9. I hit it way right and it hit him. It stayed in the first cut, if
I would have kept going, I would have had no shot. 
 
Q. He didn't kick it out, huh?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: No, didn't kick it out. 
 
Q. Which brother was that?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Billy. 
 
Q. Did you have a laugh?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: I didn't know until after my match. Then another one of my brother's
got four bee stings looking for my ball on 8. 
 
Q. Which brother was that?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Timmy. 
 
Q. Did it hit him in the butt on the fly or bounce?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: I don't know. I don't know. I think he said on the fly, but I'm not
sure. 
 
Q. Have you all been getting together at night or going out?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: They're all like staying in a different hotel, and we got -- I think --
we've never all gotten together for dinner. But I mean with my parents, I'm staying with
my parents so I've been with them every night. I'd say tonight we'll probably all get
together. It would surprise me if we didn't. 
 
Q. Do what?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Just go out to dinner. 
 
Q. How many total is it?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: I got five older brothers and one older sister. 
 
Q. Could you estimate how many people, friends and family, you think you had following
today?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: That's a good question. Probably like 40 or 50 people that were -- no,
is that too much? I don't know. 30. I don't know. (Laughing.) I have no idea. I did see a
lot of people that I didn't expect to see. 
 
Q. What were the names of the brothers that got hit and had the bee stings?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Billy got hit and Timmy got the bee stings. 
 
Q. You said yesterday that a lot of your brothers -- your whole family is a golfing
family. Could you give a quick rundown of what they do and how they have affected you in
golf.
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: My oldest brother stopped playing a long time ago, I think he stopped
playing when I was like eight years old and I beat him. He said, "That's it. I'm
never playing golf again." He never played much anyway. But that's the story he tells
people. Timmy just started playing. He's the next oldest. He started playing three years
ago. He used to be a hockey player, played professional hockey for a while and just picked
up golf about two years ago. He's crazy about it now. 
 
Q. What's your older -- oldest brother's name?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Richard. 
 
Q. Richard.
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Then Billy plays maybe 20 times a year. He's pretty good. He can shoot
in the high 70s, low 80s. Then Paul, Paul's been playing great this summer. He used to be
a lefty, and he switched to a righty about eight years ago. And he's been shooting a lot
of good scores, he's shot a lot of scores in the low 70s this year. Then John used to be
great. He played college golf at Boston College, and then just quit golf like five years
ago. He basically plays like three or four times a year now. But in terms of a natural
golf swing, he's probably got one of the smoothest swings I've ever seen. Then my sister
plays quite a bit in the summertime. She's pretty good. She can shoot in the high 70s,
mid-70s. 
 
Q. You better give her name.
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Molly, sorry. 
 
Q. What's the age differential between your oldest brother and yourself?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: My oldest brother is I guess 37 now. I'd say 37. 
 
Q. So did you grow up, your whole family, going to the club and everybody playing golf?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Basically Paul and John would, growing up, they kind of -- I'd follow
them to the golf course basically. That's what I remember doing. But growing up I played a
lot kind of on my own, kind of just parents would drop me off and I'd just spend the day
at the golf course. Kind of like most kids did, you know? 
 
Q. Was it always the same course?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Yeah, we joined Charles River Country Club when I was probably eight
years old, seven or eight. We've been members ever since. 
 
Q. You said that you weren't that nervous today.
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Not really, no. 
 
Q. How do you think your nerves will be tomorrow?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: We'll see. I don't know. I don't think -- I mean every day is a pretty
stressful day. But tomorrow's probably the most stressful I guess. But I mean I've been
pretty calm the last couple days, so we'll see. I'm sure I'll be a little bit more
nervous. Today I was a lot more calm than I thought I was gonna be. A lot more calm. I
don't know why. 
 
Q. Did you ever meet your opponent tomorrow before?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: I've said hello to him but I've never actually -- 
 
Q. I mean competitive.
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: No, I never played with him. He's from Oregon, I'm from Massachusetts,
so we probably didn't play together too much in junior golf. And I mean I've seen him
around in college tournaments and amateur tournaments but we've never played with each
other. 
 
Q. You've been a second in the junior amateur; is that correct?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Yes. 
 
Q. What do you remember about that final or your nerves or the whole experience of
coming that close?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Yeah, I was pretty nervous in that match. I don't know. I was -- I
think I was like two-up in that match with four or five holes to play and I lost on 18. I
was -- that was pretty tough. But I don't know, probably be pretty similar. It's a pretty
similar situation. At the Junior I had done pretty well the year before, not really well.
I made Match Play and lost I think in the first round or something. Then, you know, came
back the next year and played a little better. That's kind of what I'm doing here this
week. So it will probably be a pretty similar day as it was that year in terms of like my
emotions. 
 
Q. Who did you lose to in that match?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Scott Hales (phonetic spelling). 
 
Q. Have you ever played in front of a crowd this large before?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: I don't know. I played in a tournament when I was 20, so I mean that
was -- that's a pretty big atmosphere, too. But in terms of this many people just watching
me and my group, I don't think there was nearly as many at the tournament as there were
this week. 
 
Q. That was the New England tournament?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: CVS Tournament, I played the last year they had it, '98 I think. 
 
Q. How did you do?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: I shot 70, 70, 72, 76. I don't know what place I came in, near the end. 
 
Q. You made the cut, though?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Yeah. 
 
Q. Was the crowd responsive today?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: The crowd was great today. They were huge. The numbers were huge. I
can't believe it. A lot bigger than last year. I think the fact that it's so close to the
City, I mean it's just the population around here that enjoy watching golf is huge. And
they're great. They're just very supportive. 
 
Q. You got a lot of people in New Jersey, too, you know.
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: I know, I know. But... You know. (Laughing.) 
 
Q. You seem pretty set. Even yesterday you were pretty confident that your plans to
turn pro were right after the Amateur. Before this event, did you give yourself much
chance? Obviously you thought you could possibly win it, but did you -- are you surprising
yourself by getting this far?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: I don't know. I don't really -- before U.S. Am, I don't expect much. I
come in with no expectations at all, you know, hopefully I play well. I mean I know I'm
good enough. I've got the game to win, but I can't -- I mean I'm not -- I think Tiger
Woods is the only person that goes into a golf tournament and says, "I'm going to
win," and does it. If I start to think like that, I get ahead of myself and it, you
know, deters me from playing as well as I can. But -- so especially a tournament like
this. Match Play, it's such a long week. I try and take it one day at a time. 
 
Q. What's your dad do?
 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: My dad's retired. He used to be a banker. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT