SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 17, 2013
James Driscoll
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   8‑under par with a couple of bogeys.   Tell me about that round.   You're pretty happy about it, I'm sure.
JAMES DRISCOLL:   Yeah, it was overall really solid.   I got off to a sloppy start on the first hole, I duck‑hooked one over there on the left, but after that I kind of figured things out and really hit the ball well and putted well.

Q.   Tell me about No. 9.   I'm going through shot link to check it out because I'm going to come out and follow you and I'm looking to see, oh, he may be made a 20‑footer for birdie.   No, that's not the case.   Tell me about that eagle on 9?
JAMES DRISCOLL:   Yeah.   I actually hit a decent drive and it caught the left bunker.   I had to lay up to like 90 yards and had a pretty good number and been working on my wedge game pretty good, so I felt pretty confident over it, and it kind of took a nice little kick for me and went right in the hole.

Q.   I gotta ask you, the greens have been kind of the story all week.   The tough summer they had in August, they're not quite assessed, but they are perfect right now, aren't they?   A little softer than you normally would see them and maybe just a touch slower?
JAMES DRISCOLL:   Yeah, a touch, but based on what we heard over the last few weeks, I was expecting them to be a lot worse, to be honest with you.   They're actually, you know, I don't think there was any reason for anyone to say anything.   I thought they were pretty good, especially, you know, first group out this morning, the front nine was perfect.
We'll see how they hold up as the week goes on, but they look great right now.

Q.   Keep it going.   You're not even halfway to where you probably need to be at the end of the week.   Good playing.
JAMES DRISCOLL:   Yeah.   I know.   It's going to be low.   Thanks.   Appreciate it.

Q.   8‑under 63, got out early, really took advantage of the course.   What felt good today?
JAMES DRISCOLL:   You know, after the first couple holes, everything kind of felt pretty good.   I had the putter going and hit a lot of 3‑woods out there off the tees, and that kind of kept it in play and gave myself a lot of chances and really put together a good one.

Q.   Birdies at 6, 7, the eagle at 9, was it at that point you thought, okay, this could be special?
JAMES DRISCOLL:   Yeah.   I guess so.   Any time you hole out, you know, I'd just bogeyed the hole before, bogeyed 8, which is a pretty tough hole, but then to hole out on the next hole was kind of like, okay, maybe this is my day and things kind of kept going on the back nine and finished it off nice.

Q.   Boston strong, we all know your story with that.   It's been a pretty good week for Boston, the Red Sox, the Patriots.   Now you.   It's gotta feel pretty good.
JAMES DRISCOLL:   Yeah, no doubt.   There's a lot of good mojo going on up there right now and I'd love to get a little piece of it.

Q.   8‑under, 63, congratulations. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT