AT&T NATIONAL
June 28, 2013
James Driscoll
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How are you doing? 
JAMES DRISCOLL:   Good.

Q.   You only had 25 putts.   Can you talk about the kind of game you had. 
JAMES DRISCOLL:   When you only hit 10 greens, you'd better only have 25 putts if you want to shoot under par.   It wasn't pretty but hung in there, and hopefully we can hang around for the weekend. 
It's nice to see those putts go in, though.   The last about six holes, I felt like I made about six good putts.   It's a nice way to end.

Q.   What was working for you today? 
JAMES DRISCOLL:   Tee ball, not working for me.   Everything else, the irons are pretty good, and the putter is pretty good, and the short game's all right. 
Short game can make up for a lot of mistakes, and that's kind of what it's been doing for me the last couple of days.

Q.   What did you learn from yesterday that you brought to your game today? 
JAMES DRISCOLL:   This is a tough golf course.   You just got to be patient and just not beat yourself up.   I mean, it's easy to make a few bogeys out there, and it's actually easy‑‑ I made two in a row.   I was lucky on 12 to save par, but it's easy to kind of catch the bogey train.   You can ride it for a while out there. 
You just got to‑‑ I think attitude is everything.   Just kind of not beat yourself up and just try to make some good pars when you have to.

Q.   You went to UVA, correct? 
JAMES DRISCOLL:   Yes.

Q.   Did you see another alum, I guess it would be, Kohles right now, he's playing really well.   Are you guys ‑‑ is there an age difference?   Did you play together at all? 
JAMES DRISCOLL:   We didn't overlap at all.   He's a bit younger than me.   We've gotten to know each other out here on Tour.   He's a great kid and obviously a good talent.

Q.   Do you have anybody from UVA out here cheering you on? 
JAMES DRISCOLL:   I'm actually staying with an old teammate of mine from UVA all week.   Eli Barnes has been nice enough to host me all week.   So it's been nice to catch up with him. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT