TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 23, 2012
James Driscoll
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Two consecutive rounds of 66 and all of a sudden here you are with a chance to win. 
JAMES DRISCOLL:   Yeah.   It feels good.   It's kind of like last year.   I'm in a similar position.   I'll probably be in one of the last few groups, so it's an exciting place to be.

Q.   So I'm going to ask you the same thing I asked you last year.   Being a native New Englander, what would it mean to win this tournament?
JAMES DRISCOLL:   It would be great.   It's fun just to be there in contention and I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   Hopefully I'll get some friends and family out there to support me and hopefully I can play well for 'em.

Q.   James, second consecutive 66 for you.   What's going on out there with the course that you seem to be seeing exactly what's going on?
JAMES DRISCOLL:   Well, the back nine gives you a lot of chances to make birdies.   And I've been hitting the ball pretty well, giving myself a lot of chances on the birdie holes and just taking advantage of it.

Q.   And you had something better than a birdie.   You eagled the 15th.   Do you want to talk me through that hole?
JAMES DRISCOLL:   Yeah.   I hit a good 3‑wood.   I actually thought I was going to get up to the green, but it came up just short, but I had a relatively straightforward chip, uphill lie, only probably less than 20 feet from the hole and snuck it in there, so it was nice to see that one drop.

Q.   You're from Massachusetts, so this is your home area.   Very rarely does the PGA TOUR get up here.   Some guys say that can be a distraction, friends, family, everything around the hole time.   Seems to be an advantage for you.   You were fifth here in 2011.   Doesn't seem to kind of get you off focus. 
JAMES DRISCOLL:   No.   It all depends how you're playing.   If you're playing well, you know, it's great to have everybody out here.   If you're not playing well, it's kind of ‑‑ I would never blame it on friends and family being out here, but you know, it's frustrating because you want to play well for the people that are following you.
So I'm just going to try to play well tomorrow and keep them happy.

Q.   Well, they're definitely not disappointed after this round.   Good luck on Sunday. 

Q.   So first of all, how does it feel that you're a local guy, a New England guy.   You have all these connections.   I'm assuming you've got plenty of people here watching you.   How does it feel to be in contention here going into Sunday with all these family and friends here?
JAMES DRISCOLL:   It's great.   You know, I think there will be some maybe a bit of a rowdy crowd tomorrow.   So I'm looking forward to it. 
You know, I've played well obviously the first three rounds and hopefully I can just keep it going and have one more good day.

Q.   Four out of the last six champions here are first‑time TOUR winners.   How much confidence does that give guys like yourself when you come into a stop like this and see there's a lot of (inaudible) here?
JAMES DRISCOLL:   I guess it's a positive if you want to look at it that way.   But it's not something that I think is going to help me win.   You know what I mean.   The only thing that's going to help me win is if I keep doing what I'm doing and just try to play one shot at a time and play as best as I can.   But it is hopefully a good omen.

Q.   You've been in this position before, James.   What kind of opportunity do you have tomorrow?
JAMES DRISCOLL:   Good one.   There's definitely a few guys in front of me.   I'm going to be two or three or four back.   I don't know.   It depends how Roland finishes.   It depends.   I've definitely got a chance, and if I play great tomorrow, I could maybe get my first one.   But I could probably play great and still not get it.   So I just gotta take care of what I can control and try to play great.

Q.   Do you like the position you're in?
JAMES DRISCOLL:   I do.   I'd like to be three ahead, but you know, for all things considered, it's a good spot for me.

Q.   What have you kind of learned from those past experiences?   You've been in contention here before and obviously a couple other places.   What are maybe one or two things you've taken away from those?
JAMES DRISCOLL:   You know, you've just gotta stay focused on yourself and your game and not get wrapped up in the leaderboard and all that stuff.   And you know, it's hard to do, and I haven't been in this position a ton of times, so hopefully I'll learn on the few times I've been in this position and improve on it.

Q.   That putt on 18, one more revolution?
JAMES DRISCOLL:   It needed a couple.   Yeah, it needed a couple.   But I was happy to get down in two from there.   I tugged my second shot in there and wasn't happy with where it ended up, but it actually wasn't as hard of an up and down as I thought from the fairway after I tugged it over there.   But I was happy just to get down in two.

Q.   A lot of guys ended up on Thursday the pin was close to where it is today, and obviously today is it because scores get posted the way they do here that you kind of have to go for it even when maybe you should be a little more cautious?
JAMES DRISCOLL:   Actually the pin on Thursday was tougher than today.   But yeah, I think that's gotta be part of it.   I was actually aiming four paces right of the pin.   I just tugged it.
But yeah, you gotta kind of keep the pedal to the medal and make a bunch of birdies out here, and especially when you're in the fairway with an eight or 9‑iron in your hand.   It's hard to aim too far away from the hole.
But you know, I was happy.   It's not one of the birdie holes out here, so I was happy just to make four.

Q.   How about 15, are you on that tee thinking two at all?
JAMES DRISCOLL:   No.   I was definitely thinking three.   But I roasted my 3‑wood.   I actually thought I was going to get up there on the green but obviously came up just short and it was kind of a nice little spot, uphill lie and not too far from the hole.   So snuck it in.

Q.   Why do you think there's been so many first‑time winners at this course?   Is it the course?   Is it just golf?
JAMES DRISCOLL:   I don't know.   I don't know.   I have no idea.   I mean it's the type of course that, you know, there's a lot of risk and reward.   I don't know.   I can't give you a reason.   You know, I'm kind of surprised that there aren't more veterans that do well here because, you know, it's kind of a tricky golf course.   So it's not a course that you think you can just show up once at and figure it out.   But who knows. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT