CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK HOSPITALS CLASSIC
October 23, 2011
James Driscoll
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You came in this week 125. To answer all the questions about be being on the bubble you said there was not much you could do about it but play well. You played great, especially on Sunday. Great 68. 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Yeah, it was pretty close today. I truthfully did not hit the ball well at all for the first three days and just kind of got away with it because I putted great.
 I figured nobody could hit it terrible for four straight days, so I actually hit the ball pretty well today and played a real solid round.

 Q. You could've done it the easy way, but you decided to take a double at 9 just to make it interesting headed to the back side, and yet you went head and got it done on the back side. Great birdie at 17. 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Thanks. Yeah, the double on 9 made me a little nervous. I thought, anything can happen on the back nine, especially with the last three holes. 
 But then when I birdied 10 and made another birdie on 13, I felt pretty good. Plus my swing was going a little bit better too, so I felt like I had a little more control than the first three days.

 Q. Last year 157, and you had to go back and get through two stages of Q-School to get back in. They tell you at the time that sort of thing helps you down the road. Did it? Was today an easier day because you knew the bad things that could happen and you knew the good things? 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Yeah, I mean, I've been in -- there has been a lot of years where I've been right on the bubble. I remember one year Nationwide TOUR Championship I was like 24 from the Money List going into that one, and had to grind out a 32 on the back nine on Sunday. 
 Last year at Q-School it was close; this year it was real close. So been a stressful career so far.

 Q. And yet you end up on the right side of it today. 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Yeah. Hopefully we can get some good work in this off-season and improve have a better year next year.

 Q. Can you compare last year to this year? This year you seem more relaxed for obvious reasons. Was that the case, or not so much?
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Um, like this tournament compared to Q-School last year? 

 Q. Where you were at this time last year being outside the top 150. 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Yeah, because when you're outside the top 150 you're staring the Nationwide right in the eye. If you don't get through second stage you got nothing. 
 So, yeah, I mean, it's a big difference knowing that I was at least going to be in the top 150 on the Money List and gonna have 16 starts out here. So I was in a much better position. 
 But I'm glad it's over with, because it was a stressful week. 

 Q. When did you find yourself most nervous during this week? Just looking back, were you not sleeping at night? 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Last night I was pretty nervous. Yeah, I had no idea. It's different than Q-School when you can kind of look at the numbers and say, Okay, this is what the cut's going to be. 
 But when you have projected Money Lists, I didn't even know what to look at. I knew I looked last night quickly for the first time, and I saw 122 projected. Also I didn't like know what that means, because it can change so much. If one guy makes 100 grand and shoots 65 and wasn't expected to., then... 
 So I didn't know where I stood really. But I started hitting the ball much better on the front nine. Once I started to hit some solid shots I felt a lot more comfortable. 

 Q. So last night was the first time that you had seen where you were projected? You weren't following it?
 JAMES DRISCOLL: No, I didn't look it up. I had a goal for the week. I figured if I finished in the top 15 I would be fine. That was kind of my goal for the week. I did it, so I thought that -- I mean, what else can you say going into the week? You can't say, Okay, Let's finish 30th. 
 I figured top 15 would get me 80 grand, would get me above 700, and that would for sure do it. So that's all I was thinking about all week.
 Yeah, so I didn't look at any of those projections, because they can change so much from hole to hole even. I didn't put too much emphasis into that. I was just curious last night. I couldn't not look for another day. 

 Q. When you said you were nervous last night, how does the manifest itself? Couldn't sleep? Couldn't eat?
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Honestly I think I ate something bad last night because I through up four times this morning. I puked in the fitness trailer warming up. So I don't think it was nerves. I think I actually ate something bad. 
 But I slept terrible last night. I didn't hardly sleep. I think it was a combination of nerves and not feeling well.

 Q. What did you eat? 
 JAMES DRISCOLL: I don't know. I don't know what it was. 

 Q. If you find out it was nerves you're going to be pissed, aren't you?
 JAMES DRISCOLL: I don't think it was nerves because after I threw up I felt much better. So it wasn't like a pit in my stomach that was like nervous. But I was nervous on top of that, so it was kind of a tough deal.

 Q. What was your meal for dinner?
 JAMES DRISCOLL: I went to the Outback for dinner, but I think I ate something before that. I had a lobster Sandwich here that I think might have been a little funky. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Yeah, I mean, it's definitely motivation to try to find a way to get better and work harder and hopefully, you know, avoid this position.
 But, you know, at the same time, there are a lot of good players that would love to be in this position that are outside the top 150 or not even on the PGA Tour. 
 So there are two ways to look at it. I kind of take it for what it is and just appreciate the fact that I'm out here and try to get better at the same time.

 Q. Do you think people appreciate how good you have to be to be inside 125?
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Yeah, I mean, it's not easy. That's for sure. If you have a little injury for a couple months and for two months and you're not healthy, it's hard. It's hard to be healthy for a full year and play good and make a million bucks. 
 That's what you kind of got to do to be safe out here, and it's not easy to do.

 Q. What do you do this off-season? Can you remember an off-season where you could just sit back and relax and maybe play hockey?
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Yeah, I've had a lot of that actually the last few years. Well last year not so much. But I'll probably go up to Boston for maybe a month, three, four weeks, and then get down to Florida for five, six weeks before Sony. 
 Just try to get off to a good start. Haven't gotten off to a good start ever, so I think the first month or two next year is important for me to come out and ready and playing well.

 Q. You mentioned your sleep last night. Was it tossing and turning or waking up?
 JAMES DRISCOLL: Both. Yeah, like I said, i knew something wasn't right. I knew I had to throw up. I didn't do it last night. So it was just a terrible sleep. 

 Q. Last time you threw up was?
 JAMES DRISCOLL: No idea. No idea. Maybe five years ago.

 Q. Ever before a round?
 JAMES DRISCOLL: No, no, never sport-related. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT