U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 6, 1999
Bill Byers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BILL BYERS:  Yeah, we are real happy with the conditions right now.  The little shower last night was a bit of a problem, but I think the staff pretty well covered up for it.

BILL BYERS:  Exactly like this morning:  The lower temperatures, lower humidities.  This is excellent.  I think everyone will enjoy the weather today.


Q.  When you have someone like the USGA coming into town, how difficult is it to reach a consensus as to what you want in terms of green management, course management?

BILL BYERS:  Well, the USGA has some specific requests that they would like to see us meet.  Really, it hasn't been much of a problem.  Their requests for green speed, fairway width, things like that, it has been quite easy.  They have been great to work with.


Q.  How fast does the USGA want the green speed for starting Thursday and then progressively faster through the weekends?

BILL BYERS:  They really haven't given me any indication of any increase or decrease.  Their request was to have it at 10,6 on Monday morning, and that is where we were.


Q.  Since you know the course better than anyone else, what would you predict will be the two or three hardest holes, maybe 5, 13, which of the holes will play into the wind?

BILL BYERS:  I think 5 will probably be the most difficult.  And, as you know, it was changed from a par 5 that the membership plays to a par 4.  The orientation of the green is quite difficult for the approach shot.  I think that will be the most difficult.  I think all the par 3s are difficult also.  And the person with the ability to putt, I think, will have an advantage with the undulations of these greens.


Q.  With the rain last night, how much did it affect the playability of the course?

BILL BYERS:  We probably don't have the firmness that we had yesterday afternoon.  Green speed, we were able to maintain. But I don't think that they will be so soft today; that it will be a dark shoot.


Q.  What about your 5-under prediction?

BILL BYERS:  After I saw Hale start out yesterday, I am not sure that 5-under is enough.  My 5-under prediction has probably changed.  He started out just missing birdie putt on the first hole; birdied the second hole and the third hole.  I went back to the maintenance center.  (laughter).


Q.  You said that USGA asked for green speed of 10,6 on  Monday.  Will that stay 10,6 all the way through Sunday?

BILL BYERS:  That would be the USGA prediction.


Q.  You won't change anything between now and then?

BILL BYERS:  I don't think they will have wanted it more than 10,6.  That is pretty quick on these undulating greens.


Q.  What is the course record here right now?

BILL BYERS:  I believe 68.  That is when it was playing a par 73.


Q.  Is one nine more difficult than the other?

BILL BYERS:  I don't think so.  We are playing nine holes with the north course; nine holes with the south course.


Q.  That is the original --

BILL BYERS:  Yes, that was the first 18 construction in '66.  Then the other 18 was constructed in '67.  The 18 that we are playing is more the interior 18 and that is one of the reasons why that 18 was selected.


Q.  If you could tell me a little bit about the growth of this area since the time you have been here some - I don't know if we are supposed to tell - how long have you been here?

BILL BYERS:  I have been with the club 41 years.


Q.  The changes you have seen?

BILL BYERS:  Well, when we came out here it was of course just agricultural ground.  Interstate 80 was not open at that time.  University Avenue on our northbound green was a gravel road.  So the growth has been phenomenal.  We were really in the country when we came out here.


Q.  Watching Hale, was that this morning?

BILL BYERS:  Was yesterday in his practice round.

BILL BYERS:  Thank you for this opportunity and as you said, superintendents are sometimes forgotten.  Most of the superintendents that I know, or about all of them, are pretty dedicated people and they enjoy what they are doing.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT