NBA DRAFT
June 28, 2007
Yi Jianlian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Let's get the Yao Ming question out of the way; how well do you know him and do you look forward to competing against him, etc.? 
 YI JIANLIAN:  It's a beautiful thing for Chinese players.  Chinese players in the NBA at this moment, there are not that many. 
 I'm looking forward to playing with him on the court, and it will be fun to play with him in the NBA. 

 Q.  Do you know him?  Have you met before? 
 YI JIANLIAN:  I didn't play with Yao Ming in the Chinese League, the CBA in China.  But we played together for the national team so we are teammates. 

 Q.  Now you've been picked as the sixth draft pick with Milwaukee; the Chinese media feel this is a surprise.  How do you feel about that? 
 YI JIANLIAN:  It's a surprise to me, as well, because when I was in China, Milwaukee didn't come to watch me play or to work out. 
 Myself, I'm not really familiar with the city, as well, but I'm happy to play with the team and I'm happy to play in the NBA. 

 Q.  Do you know anything about the Milwaukee team, and why didn't you work out for them leading up to the Draft? 
 YI JIANLIAN:  I don't know much about the team because in China, their games -- I didn't see a lot of games of Milwaukee in China. 
 And I've never been there, so it's kind of a new city to me. 

 Q.  First, can you tell us, are you for sure going to go to Milwaukee to play?  And secondly, on the stage you were chit-catting with Oden on the stage; what were you guys talking about? 
 YI JIANLIAN:  The first question, yes, I think so. 
 The second question, Oden is a good guy, a funny guy. 

 Q.  Two questions.  First, when the third pick and the fifth pick were announced, what were you thinking about; did anything go through your mind?  And secondly, I know you definitely have a preference of which team you favored; what was your expectation in this draft? 
 YI JIANLIAN:  The Draft is just like a lottery to me.  To be honest with you, I had no idea, and lots of trades were going on.  Lots of scenarios were happening, so at that moment, I didn't think much about it. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT