NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 5, 2000
Paul Pilkington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL PILKINGTON:  Who was the first master?  Sam Ngatia, I believe won the Masters, and I actually thought I was in front and I saw him with about 400 to go and I went, "oh, no."  He went out in the front group, and I didn't --  there was a guy on the bicycle with me the whole way with the radio, so I assumed I was the lead guy, but I don't think it would have mattered.  I wouldn't have gone with that front group, anyway, like Sam did. 
 
PAUL PILKINGTON:   It is probably the windiest conditions I have ever raced in.  It seemed like we had a head wind the entire way.  We never got a break  -- even when you're out of it, it is buffeting and moving around.  Unless you are in that front group, it was a tough day. 
 
PAUL PILKINGTON:   I was hoping 2:17 or so.   I'm not too beat up.  I didn't run fast enough.  I'm 42 years old, and I'm just out there plugging along, getting out there surviving.  
 
PAUL PILKINGTON:   Yes.  
 

Q.  Can you describe what you're doing for training now, coming into this marathon? 
 
PAUL PILKINGTON:   I still run 130 miles a week type stuff.  I actually do most of my running  -- I have a son who is a high school runner, a senior; and last year I ever geared up my workouts to help him, not necessarily help me, because my career is over as a lead athlete.  And I am just running to still enjoy the sport, and to be able to train with him.  But I still run high mileage, but I do some shorter type work.  
 

Q.  You say your career is over as a lead athlete.  You were the lead American runner in this race.  What does that say about yourself and about American marathon racing? 
 
PAUL PILKINGTON:   When I was in my prime I was a 2:11 marathoner, and I'm a long ways away from that.  Next year I believe we'll get top Americans here.  Hopefully we'll get Adam Goucher, Khalid Kannouchi here and Dave Morris and some of the young runners who are racing well.  And I think that in New York next year, and the next few years hopefully, will have good Americans.  I was not surprised to be the top Americans, because you look around and you see nobody around.  I was not surprised back there. 
 

Q.  What is your son's name? 
 
PAUL PILKINGTON:   Seth.  He is a miler, two-miler.  
 

Q.  He doesn't want to do this? 
 
PAUL PILKINGTON:   I wouldn't let him. 
 

Q.  How many marathons have you run?
 
PAUL PILKINGTON:   I don't know.  I've never counted.  Its got to be it 20, 30.  I'm not sure.  When I retire, I'll sit down and count them all.  
 

Q.  Your son is running cross-country; is that true?
 
PAUL PILKINGTON:   Yes.  He won.  He's the state champion.  He is him ranked No.  5 right now.  He's a good kid.  A lot of fun.  
 

Q.  Are there any Americans, other young runners that you would point to that we should watch out for in the next few years?
 
PAUL PILKINGTON:   I think at some point you have guys, like Alan Culpepper in Colorado who made the Olympic team.  I think some of those guys need to move up and run a good marathon when they are still running 27:40 for a 10K.  There are guys capable of running 2:08, 2:09.  I think at some point Mev (ph) ought to move up.  He was on the Olympic team.  There are some good young runners that if they don't wait too long to move up, which is a mistake sometimes  -- I mean, you look at the age of the Africans, they are young.  The Japanese, they are running marathons in their early 20s and running fast.  I think if they wait until their late 30s, they are going to be past their prime.  
 
PAUL PILKINGTON:   I was just out of university, just a year out, so probably 23, 24.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT