LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 8, 2020
Landry Shamet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Clippers - 122, Trail Blazers - 117
Q. Landry, great game for you guys, you in particular.  How did you guys pull out that win down five?  I know Doc pulled out some of the guys and said it was a minutes restriction thing.  How did you pull off that win there at the end?
LANDRY SHAMET:   I mean, we just played our -- we executed, we listened in our huddles.  We talked to each other, communicated and just kept playing.  We pride ourselves on that.  It's playoff time, we're trying to tune up.  We know we're behind the 8-ball a little bit, got guys out.  We weren't full staff tonight but just trying to play hard regardless of who's on the floor and trying to get a win.
Q. Landry, you talked about being on your own timeline with coming into the bubble late.  This was your most points since before the All-Star break.  What clicked for you tonight?  How did you feel out there and what was maybe different tonight versus the past couple games?
LANDRY SHAMET:   I mean, just being aggressive, not thinking about what play I should make, just playing basketball.  Doc got on me at halftime, told me to get going, it's time to get going, play your game, get your game into this game, so I just wanted to leave my thumbprint on it and play the best I could.
Q. Could you elaborate on that conversation you had with Coach?  And what type of confidence now does this give you guys to finish the lineup in particular that you guys finished the game with moving forward and into the Playoffs?
LANDRY SHAMET:   Coach, that's all he said.  It was pretty short and sweet and to the point.
I mean, it doesn't matter who we have on the floor, what five, we're all working towards the same goal.  We're all trying to get wins, win games, ultimately win a championship.  We're building towards that, and it doesn't matter who we're playing, who's on the floor.  That's what we're trying to accomplish.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT