LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
July 28, 2020
Landry Shamet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. We've heard a lot of people describe the vibe there as kind of like a big AAU tournament.  What are your initial impressions of being in the bubble?
 LANDRY SHAMET:   That's definitely fair.  You know, feels like summer camp.  I remember going to a couple like overnight-stay basketball camps.  You see everybody at the camp there everywhere you go.  You know everybody there is directly involved in that camp.
 So it kind of feels more like that than an AAU tournament, though.  You eat with everybody.  You're at the same hotel, the whole thing.  So it's definitely unique.  But it's basketball and that's what we all want to do.
 Q. Doc had mentioned that you and Zub were able to stay connected through Zoom for all the practices and stuff like that.  What was that experience like, and do you think it helped stay connected with the team?
 LANDRY SHAMET:   Staying connected with the team has never really been much of an issue in terms of communication or whatnot.  Our group chat, we talk and we're all open and whatever.  So that's always been there and been strong.
 But as far as staying in tune and whatnot, it's been nice to have that resource.  Zoom, obviously, as we all know, is something we're all trying to adapt to and become kind of normalized with, so it's a little different, a little weird.  It's hard to hear sometimes what coaches are saying in certain situations.  It's not like you're there with them.  But still, just to see things, see what's going on, stay in the mix, that sort of thing, it was good in that sense.
 Q. Wanted to -- I felt like last time we talked with you in early July, it felt like the quarantine period for the whole team was really hard at times, not being close to one another.  What were the last few weeks like then for you where you work out at the facility, July 1, I'm sure you're thinking about Orlando on your mind, and it takes you several weeks to get here.  What was that time period like for you?
 LANDRY SHAMET:   Yeah, it was unfortunate.  Frustrating for sure because you know, felt like I had a really good quarantine, given all that, the difficulties staying locked in and whatever, and for that extended period of time when you're not really getting much to show for it.  I felt really good, and then obviously with all that news, and what I went through, you know, it was a little frustrating, but you know, I put that work in.  I built myself up, and I didn't lose all the work that I did for the months leading up to me getting it.
 So it was tough, but I mean, ran its course.  I did what I had to do.  Stayed locked in like I could, and I'm here, and that's all that matters.  I'm here before the season starts, and you know, we're in it for the long haul.  So I'm just excited to go through my process and get back to, you know, to me.
 Q. You mentioned sort of the group chat and being in constant contact, but wondered how the staff and your teammates kind of looked out for you in the last few weeks.  How supportive have they been?
 LANDRY SHAMET:   Very supportive.  You know, you'll get texts and whatnot, people saying we need you, wasn't wait to have you here, blah, blah, blah.  You know, everybody reaches out.  Everybody cares about each other here.
 But it was never -- that was never a question that I always felt, you know, supported and thought about by not only my teammates but staff and everybody involved.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT