NBA DRAFT
June 21, 2018
Landry Shamet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LANDRY SHAMET: Oh, man.  Just to be a first-round pick, to finally hear your name called and when that happens, you're taken back through everything you've overcome.  All you've had to do to get here.  Know that I've never been given anything in my life.  Just to have that happen and be a first-round pick is incredible.  Being with my family, sharing that moment.  It's something that I'm never going to forget.  It's just incredible.   
 Q.  What's your message to the fans in Philadelphia?  
LANDRY SHAMET: Coming from a coach in Coach Marshall, Wichita State, I understand the importance of playing hard all the time on defense and giving all your effort.  That's going to be me.  I'm going to do that.  I can shoot the ball.  Hopefully come in and be somebody that can be a threat from the three-point line.  Be somebody that's going to want to do whatever I can to help the team win.  Do my part.  Be the best player I can be for the Sixers and the city of Philly.   
 Q.  What do you know about the current Sixers roster?  Obviously you know the players, but how do you think you see yourself really fitting into a team that's ready to take that next step into true contention?  
LANDRY SHAMET: Yeah, obviously it's been a roller coaster in Philly and a really quick turnaround the last couple years.  Going from really rough to now a playoff contender, a serious threat in the East.  Obviously guys like Ben Simmons, Joel Embiid.  Ben being a ball-dominant guy, me being a point guard, I think I'll fit perfectly.  I'll be able to play seamlessly, being that I can play both guard spots, can guard both guard spots.   
Be a threat from the three-point line.  Ben needs space and is good in space and being able to create, and I think I can be a useful weapon for him.  Joel Embiid is going to attract a lot of attention as well.  So you have those two guys there that are going to attract a lot of attention.  I can be on the perimeter and kind of help in that way.   
 Q.  What did you learn about yourself your first year at Wichita State when you sat out with an injury and how did you continue to improve?  
LANDRY SHAMET: I think when you have an injury like that and you have what you love taken away from you, you've got to adjust and find a way to learn from a different perspective.  That's exactly what I did.  I wasn't able to learn through playing and making mistakes, but I got to watch two guys in Ron (Baker) and Fred (VanVleet), and just how they were pros and how they played.  So I learned a ton.  I think that year was honestly a blessing in disguise for me.  I don't know if I'm here if it's not for that year.  I learned a ton from it.  It was huge for me.  It allows me to be able to learn from that, from watching, not always just doing.   
 Q.  When you worked out for the Sixers, did they say anything about how they would like to utilize you next year?  Would it be maybe going down to the G League or did they say anything about being stashed overseas for a season?  
LANDRY SHAMET: They didn't say anything about being stashed overseas.  We didn't talk in depth about, if you come here you're going to play X games in the G League or whatever.  It's obviously going to be a conversation.  I feel confident that I can come in and contribute early.  We talked about, like I said, being able to utilize me as a lead guard that can play off the ball with Ben, and be a three-point shooting threat and guard both guard spots.  I feel like I can come in and be a contributor, be able to help.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT