TCS NYC MARATHON
November 3, 2016
Annie Bersagel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What are you studying for your degree?  
ANNIE BERSAGEL: So I studied peace and conflict studies at that time.  It's kind of a political science degree in Masters, and after being in Norway for a few years, Aden and I went out to California, and I studied law.   
 Q.  So are you a licensed lawyer?  
ANNIE BERSAGEL: I am, in the State of California.   
 Q.  We should be very careful with the questions we ask.  
ANNIE BERSAGEL: There you go.  You've been forewarned.   
 Q.  So you had some injuries over the last year or so, and obviously the trials probably weren't where you wanted to be.  So how's it been since then, both like mentally knowing that that was not up to the February race and bouncing back physically in the last seven or eight months?  
ANNIE BERSAGEL: No, it was a big disappointment.  There was no way to kind of mince words on that.  I definitely built up for a long period of time to try to make it.  It was going to be a tight timeline coming back from knee surgery, but it was definitely worth a shot.  Coming off that, I really tried to take the time to build up strength and also train a little bit differently than I have before.  So I did a lot of mountain racing that summer, and I found that helped build especially the quad and the glute strength.  It's a great excuse to see some of the most beautiful parts of Norway too.   
 Q.  What distances were those?  
ANNIE BERSAGEL: So it can vary everything from three to -- I think the longest race, I did one in actually Vail, Colorado, where it was closer to 11K.  But it's more the time it takes to finish them is more about 40, 50 minutes because they're so steep that the times per kilometer are really slow.  Kind of nice, technical courses and just up.   
 Q.  So at this point in your career, what keeps you motivated to run?  What are your goals as you enter kind of your second half or third maybe of your career?  
ANNIE BERSAGEL: I don't know.  I've had maybe a lot of comebacks.  No, I love running, and I find that just the competition is something that motivates me and always going out there and trying to improve on what I've done before.  I think that's something that's really unique with running compared to a lot of other sports.  You can always go in there and try to beat yourself.   
So that's what I've found really motivating, just the competition, and trying new things this summer was also a great way to kind of mix it up a little bit.   
 Q.  I know you're coming off the summer, so it's not like it's the whole dark wintertime in Norway.  
ANNIE BERSAGEL: Getting there.   
 Q.  I know you talked about very long treadmill workouts.  Is that something that's still ahead of you?  Mentally, how do you get through a 16, 15-mile training run?  
ANNIE BERSAGEL: You know, I've done that a lot this summer as well.  Sometimes I'll do that in -- even when preparing for the mountain races, for example, I'll do like a 10 percent grade on the treadmill and just run for 2 1/2 hours.  But I always have something interesting to listen to.  I think, in part, it's a good type of mental training for the marathon because there is that monotony that's there, and getting used to that and lapping into a pace is something that can be really helpful.   
 Q.  What do you like to listen to?  
ANNIE BERSAGEL: All kinds of podcasts.  A lot of news, whatever's going on.   
 Q.  What are some of your favorite podcasts?  
ANNIE BERSAGEL: I like Planet Money, NPR Marketplace.  I kind of got hooked on the Tim Ferris Show lately.  That's been interesting.   
 Q.  Are you kind of listening to much coverage of the political situation?  
ANNIE BERSAGEL: A little bit, but I have to admit, I think the Norwegians I work with are maybe more engaged on the political situation.  My boss, he stayed up to watch the debates from Norway.  So that's like 3:00 in the morning Norway time.  I voted, though.  Sent my ballot in.  We're good.   
 Q.  Are you registered in California?  
ANNIE BERSAGEL: Minnesota, actually.  That's where my family lives.   
 Q.  Don't the Norwegians take a more global view of peace and ethics as opposed to a minor election in various places?  
ANNIE BERSAGEL: I think there's a certain fascination with the United States, though.  The coverage there, it's bigger -- the coverage of the U.S. is bigger than, say, the elections in Sweden.  And part of it, I think, is the way our political system works.  It lends itself to being a little bit more entertaining than, say, the typical parliamentary election.  But since the '40s, there's been that kind of connection with the U.S. where there's a lot of focus on it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT