CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 22, 2019
Michelle Liu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Were you nervous on the first tee?  
MICHELLE LIU: Yeah, definitely wasn't my best performance, I would say. My chipping wasn't where it needed to be. Yeah.   
 Q.  What did feel like?  
MICHELLE LIU: It was definitely very exciting I would say to be able to play in this sort of environment.   
Yeah.   
 Q.  Were there butterflies on the opening tee shot?  
MICHELLE LIU: Yeah, I would say definitely, but my first tee shot was a good shot, so I would say I dealt with that.   
 Q.  And how did you feel as you went through the round? Did you feel a little more confident?  
MICHELLE LIU: Yeah, I would say, but definitely I just didn't play very well. That probably didn't help, so, yeah.   
 Q.  Are you disappointed? How do you feel?  
MICHELLE LIU: Yeah, I would say I am disappointed. I mean, like there were definitely a lot of like just taking the wrong club, bad chipping. Yeah, definitely bad chipping.   
Yeah, I would say like I don't expect much, but also expect to play something I think is my average score.   
 Q.  Are these tears of frustration you're feeling right now, or is it more disappointed?  
MICHELLE LIU: I would say yeah, pretty disappointed about my score.   
 Q.  You're 12 years old and you just played in an LPGA tournament. I think that's a pretty amazing achievement; don't you?  
MICHELLE LIU: Yeah. I'm definitely proud that I am able to play here in the first place.   
 Q.  What was it like playing in front of the crowd and hearing them cheer for you?  
MICHELLE LIU: It definitely makes me think -- I think I have like -- I'm happy that, you know, like so many people are supporting me. I'm really glad I'm able to experience this sort of support.   
Yeah, I'm definitely looking forward to hopefully playing a better round tomorrow.   
 Q.  What kind of things did the crowd say to you today?  
MICHELLE LIU: I would say they were definitely really supportive. Yeah, I think a lot of them definitely helped me to play well today.   
Yeah, just a lot of support.   
 Q.  Anything funny you heard?  
MICHELLE LIU: No, not really. (Laughter.)   
 Q.  What do you want to do tomorrow?  
MICHELLE LIU: I would say just hopefully play better than today. Yeah, not much.   
 Q.  Can you describe what it was like to chip in on 13 and what the crowd was like?  
MICHELLE LIU: It was definitely -- it was a happy moment, I would say. Yeah. Definitely a highlight of my round today.   
 Q.  Are you more nervous hitting your first tee shot or standing here right now?  
MICHELLE LIU: Probably standing here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT