PILOT PEN INTERNATIONAL
August 14, 1996
Andrei Cherkasov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ANDREI CHESNOKOV: I'm leading 6-Love, 6-Love, I'm going to take melatonin because I
knew I need, you know, two hours minimum.

Q. Can you talk about your relationship with him a little?

ANDREI CHESNOKOV: With Medvedev?

Q. Yes.

ANDREI CHESNOKOV: He's a nice guy. There are a lot of jokes about life. I don't know,
some Russian jokes. I don't know, but I just want to say he's a nice guy. I always like to
talk to him.

Q. You beat him before?

ANDREI CHESNOKOV: Once at Stockholm, I won 6-2, 2-6, 7-5. This is second meeting. I
think the first time when I played against Medvedev, I saved one match point, but it was
on my serve at 5-4 in the third.

Q. (Inaudible)?

ANDREI CHESNOKOV: Who, Medvedev? 

Q. Yes.

ANDREI CHESNOKOV: He was to hit the ball hard, but I think for himself, need to do
something else, something else. You know, he hit the ball quite hard, he hit the ball very
hard. It's enough, I think. Maybe, I don't know, his leg's not good enough. I don't know.
Maybe his head is not good enough also, but I don't know. I'm not the coach. I cannot say
exactly what happens. But I want to say he wants to come back very much, and that's why he
thinks making him a little bit nervous.

Q. I apologize, I'm a little late. Yesterday you played two hours, today was another
two plus hours. Yesterday you came in here and said you were 30 years old, we were asking
you about the Senior's Tour. How does that affect you playing tomorrow and how does that
affect the third set today?

ANDREI CHESNOKOV: I said if I'm going to lose tomorrow 6-1, 6-Love or 6-1, 6-1, right
after the court I'm going to take a melatonin because I need to give energy more than I'm
going to do, let's say, yesterday, half hour on the court, not enough. I think if you take
a look my age, 30s, my body is not the 30s -- not the 30 years old like, you know, other
player. If you take a look some other players, you know, at the age, I don't know, 20 or
25, you can say okay, but he's age 25, but he looks like 35.

Q. (Inaudible) playing style you think you have?

ANDREI CHESNOKOV: Body style. Muscles dry, body is dry. I am not fat, most important
thing, and still quite fast.

Q. Do you do a lot of distance running?

ANDREI CHESNOKOV: Melatonin. When I get here, about 20 days ago, I start run every day
in the morning, something, half an hour. During the day maybe 10, 15 minutes. I think it
gives me a lot of physical condition.

Q. (Inaudible)?

ANDREI CHESNOKOV: You know, his body is a little bit heavy, but he hit the ball hard,
you know. He can hit the ball only once and you cannot get it. But if you quick and if you
have a good legs, of course you can get every ball, you try to get everything back. For
himself, I think he needs to not only hit the ball hard, but, I don't know, maybe to do
something else. Because today he has not enough patience. Of course, he hit the ball hard.
You know sometimes, I play the ball deep, what reason to hit the ball hard? Sometimes he
have to be more patient, to wait a little bit. I think today he played not bad, not bad. I
think I played good tennis today.

Q. He's eager to move up in the rankings after being down in the rankings. How is he
playing compared to a while ago?

ANDREI CHESNOKOV: 1992, in 1992 he won Stuttgart, or '91, at the age of 18. He played
so well.

Q. Never missed?

ANDREI CHESNOKOV: Never miss, yeah. I can compare something. At the age 18, he didn't
think about the results, he just played, he just played the game. You know, when you going
to be on the top like Medvedev, he become the No. 4 player one year in the world, of
course he wants to keep himself, you know, on the top. But you have to choose: I have to
keep something in the top ten or I have to play. I think he had to think about, you know,
not to be in the top, but to just to play ball. That's the most important things. I think
everything is coming from here, you know.

Q. So far in the Grand Slams, you haven't seen a lot of the big names winning. Do you
think that's good for the game, good to have some of the lesser known players do well in
the Grand Slams? Do you think the game needs the big stars to shine at those times?

ANDREI CHESNOKOV: Because today is the level of all the players, compare with the level
of these players something years ago. Today if the top player were going to lose the first
round to the player something ranking 100, 110, I don't see big surprise, you know. If you
take a look behind something, 20 years ago, player like, top player, like Newcombe,
they're going to lose first round, I don't know. Today is different story than 20 years
ago. Everybody practice a lot like, try to practice four, five hours every day. They go
walking out not only on the court, but in the gym, I don't know, do everything. I have to
follow this, too. I don't want to practice five hours a day, but I have to (laughter).

Q. How does your coach feel about that?

ANDREI CHESNOKOV: Coach, you better ask. She want me practice like the others
something, four, five hours, but it's quite a lot for me. Myself, I would like to do, you
know. I would like to practice four or five or six hours, but I don't want it.

Q. You strike me as a player like Borg, physical talent of Borg. Have you ever been
able to serve like Bjorn Borg?

ANDREI CHESNOKOV: When I get here 20 days ago, I especially concentrate myself on my
serve. Every day I working, working, working. Take a look today, I didn't do -- my serve
was okay, let's say okay, but not great. I will continue to work on my serve, even the age
of 30 or 35. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT