AL DIVISION SERIES: ATHLETICS v YANKEES
October 11, 2001
Jason Giambi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Talk about how Barry Zito is eccentric?
 
JASON GIAMBI:   He's your typical left-hander, there's no doubt about that.  But he has a lot of fun in the clubhouse.  He has fun with what he does.  He  has that whole, "I'm a struggling rock star" image, trying to not sell out for the money, and worried about his hair care products and things like that.  But he's unbelievable once he gets on the mound.  He's unhittable.  
 
Q.  Because he's unhittable, Art had said that's one of the reasons he might go in Game  3 against Mussina.  Do you feel that's the best match-up for him?
 
JASON GIAMBI:   Yeah, definitely.  I think it's a decisive game, no doubt about it.  Who knows what's going to happen tonight, but that's either a big game, to drop the hammer on with Barry Zito, or a big one to get us back on top after winning Game 1.  That's the biggest thing Art had really hoped to do, is to come into Yankee Stadium, get one out of here and take it back to Oakland.  That's going to be a big game with him on the mound and how well he pitches. 
 
Q.  How hard were Johnny Damon's struggles in the first half?
 
JASON GIAMBI:   I mean, it was tough.  I think he put a lot of pressure on himself coming over, having a huge year in Kansas City and everybody touting him as this missing link to the Oakland A's offense.  And back then we just sat back and tried to hit three-run homers all the time, and now we got this dimension of speed.  He came over and started to struggle and put pressure on himself.  Once we had that talk about, "let's relax" and he made the move to centerfield, he became more comfortable and all of the sudden, before you knew it, he started taking off and started to produce on offense.  As you saw last night, that extra dimension, he gets on first and steals second; he definitely made a big impact in the game. 
 
Q.  How did Art's demeanor help you get over your early-season scuffle? 
 
JASON GIAMBI:   Like I've always said, Art Howe is the greatest manager in the world for this team.  He's really let us become the players that we've become.  It takes a lot of trust in a guy that, you know, calls in a player like myself and goes:  "All right, you're the guy, you're the team leader, you're going to take this team by the reins and you're going to police it.  And I'm going to be the manager, but you guys have got to run it internally."  And because of that, it's really taken on that type of personality where we have a lot of fun.  And I know the media likes to play the frat house clubhouse, but at the same time, I think that's one of the biggest reasons why we came out of that 8-18 slump because we didn't panic.  We had a meeting within ourselves and started talking about the things we needed to do, stealing and hitting and running; and some of the younger hitters were putting pressure on themselves to fill the holes of Velarde, Grieve and Stairs, and before we knew it, we got the ball rolling again and there was never really any panic.  Art is an incredible man. 
 
Q.  You guys had a late night last night and now the start has been pushed back half an hour.  What are your thoughts on that?
 
JASON GIAMBI:   No, I think it's good.  I think everybody is going to be interested in what the President has got to say; so it's definitely a positive thing.  So I think it's not really going to matter that much having a day off.  And that's nice instead of having to play, that would definitely make a difference, but it's an important thing, the right thing to do. And I know we're all excited in the clubhouse to see what's going on at 8:00, so I don't think it's going to play a factor.  
 
Q.  Being this is your second year in the post-season, have you been able to enjoy this a little bit more this year than maybe last year? 
 
JASON GIAMBI:   Oh, definitely.  There's no doubt about it.  We didn't come in here this year with blinders on because we really didn't know what to expect.  None of us had ever really played in the post-season.  It's that term that everybody likes  -- once you get here, you get hungry for it every year; you want to get back here because that's what everybody in this game plays for.  Salaries are nice, but getting in the post-season and getting the chance to try to win a ring; that's what it is all about.  That's the first thing you hear out of guy's mouths that were greats in the game but don't have a World Series ring, "I wish I had one."  So coming to New York, I definitely think it would have made a different series if this would have been our first one coming into New York, playing the first game of the series here.  We got our feet wet last year and I think it made a big difference yesterday.  
 
Q.  If somehow you were in another clubhouse next year, how difficult would that be for you? 
 
JASON GIAMBI:   It would be tough, and that's why I've always told the media:  I'm going to enjoy every minute of this ballclub because who knows what's going to happen next year.  It would be tough.  It would be  --  we've really got that family atmosphere, like 25 brothers that are all on a team. But, you know, the thing is, you grow up and things change, but that doesn't change your style of play or the things that you do, but it definitely, it would definitely be a sad day if I left.  I don't know if I'll ever be able to play for a team like that.  But the most important thing is, like we said, winning.  So be it, go somewhere else to win; that's not going to play any effect on how I'm going to play the game. 
 
Q.  Could you ever see yourself playing here in New York? 
 
JASON GIAMBI:   You want to see the  -- (Raises shirt) -- no, I'm just kidding. (Laughter). I haven't really thought about it.   Like I said, I'm going to finish this year out.  I think that's been the positive thing about my year, so gratifying, not having a contract, having all the rumors all year long of what's going to happen, this and that, and it never affected my play.  It never affected, you know, how I felt about the team and things like that.  We just kept pushing forward.  So that's what I'm most proud about is that it didn't hamper my play and just proved to everybody that I can play through the term well.  It's what you do on the field that really matters and that's what I'm most proud of. 
 
Q.  How much of the first inning yesterday kind of make a statement about how your offensive philosophy has changed from this year to last year? 
 
JASON GIAMBI:   I think huge.  I mean, that's  -- we were even more than during the season, Damon gets on and the first pitch we're running, where maybe in the past we took longer to run and keep bringing as many people up to the plate as we could by trying to work walks or thing like that.  But Damon, he took control of the game, stole on the first pitch.  Mickey did a great job moving him over and we get on the scoreboard, which I think is a big plus for Mulder, who does not get intimidated, but it's nice to look up there when you are facing the Rocket and know, "I'm up 1-0 right now" and have a chance to get up there and pitch and not have to worry about if the Yankees score or not.  I think that took the crowd out of it and took the pressure off throwing in the first inning. 
 
Q.  What do you think of Barry Bonds saying you are one of the guys that could challenge or break his home run record? 
 
JASON GIAMBI:   I don't know.  Barry's unbelievable.  Same with Mark (McGwire).  I like to call those guys cartoon characters, because they do  --  him, Sammy guys like that, it's unbelievable what they do.  That's a great compliment from an incredible hitter.  I have never even thought about it.  But I have a lot of fun when I was hitting in that home run contest in Seattle, but at the same time, you know Barry just had one of those years where he was locked.  He's fitting first-pitch knuckleballs out of the park; that's ridiculous to walk up and hit one out.  So I'm even honored that he would even mention that in the same breath. 
 
Q.  Does playing here energize you as much as it seems to? 
 
JASON GIAMBI:   Oh, definitely.  I love to play here.  You know, the biggest thing is I've always loved the game and the people who have played it.  I know a lot of the old players.  My dad was a huge Mickey Mantle fan.  I've always studied the game.  I really believe that if you are going to love something and enjoy what you do, you should know the past and the players.  Being able to talk to Reggie (Jackson) yesterday and things like that  -- and the fans, the fans are what this game is all about.  They love their players here.  They are very knowledgeable of the game.  You know, moving guys over, they are applauding where maybe other places are like, "Oh, you made an out; you stink."  It's a lot of fun especially the history you see the plaques in centerfield.  To think Babe Ruth and Mantle and DiMaggio and all those guys have played on this field is pretty exciting.  
 
Q.  People don't think of your ballpark as being a tremendous home field advantage, but you've won 17 in a row there.  Why? 
 
JASON GIAMBI:   It's a tough ballpark to hit in.  It doesn't look that big, but it plays big, especially at night.  The fog kind of rolls in and our pitching staff, those young kids that we throw out on the hill, they are as good as anybody out there.  I definitely think that plays to an advantage to us, because, you know, we can manufacture a few runs by taking walks.  We're still hitting the long ball, but you are not hitting a lot of runs to centerfield.  They do a nice job of pitching in the ballpark, the ways they pitch it, pitch the ball away and so it doesn't really travel; especially with the three outfielders that they have with out there, it plays a big part in the game. 
 
Q.  Art was saying before that he sensed Johnny was trying to do too much early on, did you sense that or pull him aside and say anything to him?
 
JASON GIAMBI:   When he first came over, he was touted as being this missing link we were supposed to have; to add that speed game because we didn't have that before.  When he started out slow, which he always does anyway, and then we are 8-18, I think he really started to put a lot of pressure on himself, and feeling that, "I'm not doing any job," and things like that. The biggest thing, this team has been such a huge family, we finally said, "Relax, play your game."    Then he calmed down, and before you know it, he started to hit good.  A month later, he had his average up to .260, and because of that, our offense took off.  He played a huge part and look at the impact he played last night.  So he is definitely a huge impact. 
 
Q.  Is there a story behind your hat (FDNY)?  Did you meet with some firefighters from New York?
 
JASON GIAMBI:   Yeah, definitely.  We went down to one of the fire stations.  I think it was Engine 28, Ladder 11 that were kind of friends of people that we knew and went down to visit some of the kids and things like that.  We thought that was a big part to show our respect.  I know we were on the other coast, but we wanted to do something the way all of the New Yorkers had handled everything, the fire department and police department.  We felt that's how we could show our respect to at least go out there meet some of the kids and show them that we care and we wanted to be a part of it like everybody else. 
 
Q.  Who went down?
 
JASON GIAMBI:   Myself, Johnny Damon, Barry Zito, guys like that.  It was touching.  It was special, to see  and get a chance to meet those kids and I think we made a few fans.  As many as you can get in New York, that plays a big part.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about Terrence Long's development and how important his role has been in the lineup this year?
 
JASON GIAMBI:   It's been incredible to watch.  I mean, to think this kid has gone from the leadoff hole to this year hitting fourth sometimes.  He's played centerfield and now he's moved to left field.  His mental game, I think, is the one that's been really improved, because he's never let any of that affect his play; and that's pretty rare and pretty special to find a guy that can do something like that.  You know, most kids get rattled, if they are not playing in the same spot or in a different position and he's never really let it affect him.  He's one of the kids that reminds me when I was with Mark, because he asks a lot of questions and he wants to be a great player and he's on the verge of becoming a superstar.  He's right on the doorstep, just like Chavez and Tejada and those guys because what he can do is very special.  You saw what he can do:  He can play the outfield, he's got a great arm and it's just a matter of taking that next step into that role of being a superstar. 
 
Q.  You have a special role on this team in the clubhouse, off the field.  Are you prepared to have that role changed if you go somewhere else?  Are you prepared to take another role on a team where you might not be the leader; you'll be one of a few veterans?  Is that something you're prepared for? 
 
JASON GIAMBI:   Yeah, if that's what it needed to be.  When I first got to the big leagues, it was Mark and Terry Steinbach and Dennis Eckersley and I was just one of the players, but it was really a sense when we were young, if I would have done a lot of those things, I would be the only guy riding on the veteran bus; I would have been the only guy on the back of the plane.  And I figure if we were going to lose, we were going to make everybody feel like they were a big fan, and I said that's the thing that makes the great player a great player.  He can fit in everywhere, he can fill in whatever role needs to be, whether it be the father figure or be the big guy that stands up and hits a big home run or constantly is patting guys on the back or things like that.  You just figure out what each team needs.  You look across the room at New York, they don't need that.  They have a bunch of superstars.  They have a bunch of older players that know how to win, and that's evident by four World Series in five years.  There's just a different role that's played over there.  But I still think Paul O'Neill is a big guy over there, and Roger, huge; he's very vocal and a guy that gets on the mound and gets it done.  So you still have your players,  but they are kinds of that different light.  They don't do as much.  
 
Q.  Do you ever get tired doing all that? 
 
JASON GIAMBI:   No.  Because I love going to the ballpark every day.  I love spending time with them, and seeing them grow as baseball players, just like I have.  Not only in the aspects of what I've done on the field, but it's kind of gratifying to think that you have played a part in some of these young kids' lives and how the development of the game has gone on.  Yeah, I mean, it doesn't get tiring, though.  It's kind of exciting to have that role and have that respect of your teammates where they like that.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT