DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
May 28, 2015
Soren Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Soren, an excellent round of 3‑under par.   What was the strength of your game today?
SOREN HANSEN:   I don't know.   I think everything well here.   (Indiscernible).   On the turn, my front nine, on the Back 9 there, I had had (indiscernible), which sort of kept me going, kept me in it.   And then I just played quite well on the Back 9 as well. 
Had a funny incident on 7.

Q.   I was going to ask you about that.   Tell me about the second shot because that was fascinating. 
SOREN HANSEN:   It's one of those holes where it gets you.   When you have a good score going, you don't want to finish that.   You actually want that hole as one of your middle holes in the round.   You don't want that as a finishing hole because it's such a tricky little shot and wind off across from the right, and you really have to sort of bing is up there.   And I did that.   I came totally out of it, came short of the green, and I didn't have a shot really.   Tried to play this little fancy semi shot or whatever, and it came out totally on the toe of‑‑ hit a spectator, I believe, and then ran into the hole.   And if it doesn't (indiscernible) I don't know what, because I finished out my hole, it was unbelievable.   It was one of those shots when you think, hang on, I played really well and then I get that one.   It was a nice shot, you know, a nice lucky break and it feels good.

Q.   You won this championship back in 2002.   Can you believe it's 13 years ago?
SOREN HANSEN:   I know.   I'm the last person‑‑ you know, they have a sign for each person.   I'm the last person next to Sean, so hopefully I can go start all over again. 
But yeah, it's a long time ago.   It was funny coming back to Fota last year and sort of defend.   But yeah, now we're here on an unbelievable golf course, very, very tough setup, and I'm very pleased with what I did today. 

Q.   Great playing.   Well done?
SOREN HANSEN:   Thank you very much.

Q.   Particularly testing day for a lot of players, which I would imagine makes your round all the more pleasing?
SOREN HANSEN:   Very pleasing.   Rain coming in after a bit of sunshine obviously as well, but the wind straight across on the whole course is coming straight out of the west today, and it just played tough, and I just kept on hanging in there.   And I holed a few good putts in the middle of my round and sort of kept me going, but otherwise it's one of those if you don't hole those, all of a sudden you're on the Back 9 and you're a couple over par and then your round sort of seems to go away from you.   But I managed to hole those and got a bit of a lucky break at the last few holes.   And yeah, got in the clubhouse 3‑under, which I'm very, very pleased with.

Q.   When you watched Rory McIlroy really struggling this morning, did you fear the worst for your own round?
SOREN HANSEN:   I know.   I mean I saw‑‑ I was The Players' lounge, I watched a bit of Rory and Kaymer as well.   I think they seemed to struggle.   I was like, oh, if they can't play, what's in it for me, you know.   But it's just a game, and the setup of the course, it's a great course, but the setup is brutal.   It's set up like the toughest Open I've ever played in really, and it proves this course is the test of them all.   It's really, really‑‑ it's very‑‑ how can I say it?   It plays with your imagination, a lot.   There's room, but it doesn't look like it, and the fairways are tight, greens are bouncy.   It's a good, fair test really.
But very, very, very, tough setup.

Q.   Great way to start, isn't it?
SOREN HANSEN:   It is.   Irish Opens are always good.   It's been a long time since I've had really good success here, but I've had great success here over the years and always enjoy playing in Ireland, and this place is very special.   I must admit, the golf course is a treat for us.   It's a very, very tough layout and a tough setup at least.   But I'm very pleased with 3‑under, I must admit.

Q.   13 years ago, Fota Island. 
SOREN HANSEN:   I know.

Q.   Does it feel that long?
SOREN HANSEN:   No, not really.   It's gone fast.   I feel like this is coming down to 18, it's nothing the past few years and I'm the very first one.   That means I've been here for a long time.   Yeah, but it's great to see all the support and everything here, and the course is really a testimony of golf, you know.   It's a fun golf course, but a very tough setup.

Q.   It sounds like you you've relished playing the links once again. 
SOREN HANSEN:   I do.   I do like links, but it was a tough test today and I'm very pleased with what I did.

Q.   And yet, do you feel a little bit lucky, because the sun is shining, it's a little bit warmer for you. 
SOREN HANSEN:   I know.   I do feel lucky.   And you heard about my incident on 7.   It's one of those holes you don't want to have it at the end of your round because it plays really with your imagination and it plays with you, because it's such a little tricky shot.   It's a short hole, but it can be tough with that wind coming off the right.   And hit a terrible first shot and a terrible second shot, and in on the green it went and then I holed a really good putt.   So I mean obviously totally lucky, but I'm very, very pleased. 

Q.   It's about time things went your way, isn't it?
SOREN HANSEN:   I know.   One thing I really found funny is you gotta look at the funny side of that, because it's easy to go behind that and, ah, it was a bad shot, blah, blah, blah.   It's easy to get into that sort of rhythm as a professional golfer when it doesn't go your way, but actually I thought it was very funny and the spectators took it really good.   So it was a funny shot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT