JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 28, 2009
Soren Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   SØREN HANSEN: I've played well but I think also some weird shots here and there, but I think it's the conditions that does it to you. The ground is very wet and the fairways are cut a bit tight, and sometimes you get a different strike than you're used to and the ball sort of seems to wander a little bit.   
 But all in all, okay, but a little bit disappointed maybe, especially the way I finished the last two days. Yesterday I finished with a 3-putt on 17, and today, with a little bit of a stupid bogey on No. 9, which was my last hole.  
  
  Q. Sounds like it's been particularly aggravating at times.   
 SØREN HANSEN: No, no, not aggravating, but I just think that I should have scored a little bit better. But I'm looking forward to the weekend and at least I'm not far away. I think conditions were definitely there this morning to shoot a good score. And it's supposed to blow this afternoon, so it's a little bit of a wasted opportunity.   
 So you walk away with that feeling, but I also walk away with the feeling that a few things, a few adjustments this afternoon, and I'll be fine in the weekend.   
  
  Q. Stating the obvious but you're still in that very tidy position given those indifferences.   
 SØREN HANSEN: I like this place. I've played well the last few years, and there's no reason why I shouldn't continue to do that again.   
  
  Q. Elaborate on how much you like this, because that form across the years has been terrific, hasn't it?   
 SØREN HANSEN: Yeah, I've played well, especially I had a great British Open, we had a good finish on Sunday and I did the same thing at the U.S. Open. I had two really good finishes in two major championships, and it gave me a good boost.   
 Yes, I feel like I'm on form and as I say, I like this place.  
  
  Q. Does it mean anything to you coming into the tournament as the pre-event favourite?  
 SØREN HANSEN: Am I really? I haven't given it a thought. I suppose maybe I am because I'm one of the highest ranked here. I don't know on previous records but I haven't given it that much thought. There's plenty of guys here and so far there's Major Champion leading the way, so need to catch him up.  
  
  Q. Among those good guys, it's terrific to see Paul Lawrie back who has not yet dropped a thought and you'll notice the same of José Maria Olazábal up there, as well.   
 SØREN HANSEN: That's fantastic. He's my hero and has always been. It's fantastic to see him back and shooting a really low round today is good.   
  
  Q. Good to play alongside him?   
 SØREN HANSEN: I would love to.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT