PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 18, 2008
Soren Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Great round of 65, a pretty good round (as horn blows suspending play).   
 SØREN HANSEN: Yeah, I'm very pleased. It was very solid today. Yesterday a best of two and today was all around some birdies here and there. I played really well. I'm really happy to make the par on the last because I hit sort of a poor hot in and I was faced with a long putt but all in all very happy.  
  
  Q. You're right up there now going into tomorrow's final round, obviously see what the leaders do for the last few holes, but it's going to be an exciting day for you tomorrow.   
 SØREN HANSEN: Definitely. A lot of Top-10s this year and I haven't really finished the job off. Maybe tomorrow is the day, and I mean, I'm playing sort of well enough. It's just a matter of going out and getting the job done, and there's a lot of good guys around you. So it's about concentrating on your own ball, I reckon, and see what happens at the end of the day.  
  
  Q. Having played in an event such as The Ryder Cup for the first time, what does that do for your confidence now when you get yourself into this situation? Very different but knowing you can handle the pressure?  
 SØREN HANSEN: It's obviously very different. But I mean, The Ryder Cup is a special thing. You know, I've played under the most extreme pressure and extreme circumstances, as well, being in America, where you have 75,000 on you not cheering for you really. You know I handled that pretty well I thought. At the end of the day they just played a little bit better.  
  
I mean, it feels a bit different coming back to play. But now, it's sort of back to the good old, good old. But I'm pretty high on confidence and it was a good boost for me, The Ryder Cup, because it showed me that I can play under those sort of circumstances.  
  
  Q. Good players like yourself, when you see somebody like Robert Karlsson at the moment, bearing in minds the run of form he's on at the moment?  
 SØREN HANSEN: It's great. I've always followed Robert closely because we are good friends and I like the way he plays and he's very solid, you know, and I said really early this year that I could be a major contender, and he certainly is.   
 And you know, it makes you think that the few things he's doing, you try to copy it a little bit and you ask him a few questions about how is he doing this and how is he doing that, and, you know, you can feed off that as well. He's worked hard for many, many years, and now he's getting the reward and it's great to see.   
 I think he's the man to catch, and Robert Karlsson is very in form. But as I said before, you have to concentrate on your own thing and you can't control what they are doing. If the weather stays as it is, it's probably another day with a lot of birdies, so anything can happen.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT