ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 2, 2008
Soren Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. As they keep saying in these political campaigns, a game-changer, wasn't it, that sort of finish?   
 SØREN HANSEN: It was. I played well all day, and you know, I holed a monster putt on the 7th, which was my third last hole, and then I hit a good shot, holed that one, as well, and then No. 8, my second last, and then I hit an incredible second shot on 2 a few inches from the hole on the very last hole. So one of those where you look at the leaderboard and say what happened there.   
 It was a very good finish.   
  
  Q. Is it a refreshing change to play in this kind of format?  
 SØREN HANSEN: I really enjoy Vladimir's company and playing with the two Kaymer brothers. It was a nice and relaxed atmosphere, and the weather was really enjoyable, as well. The sun is shining at Kingsbarns and you're playing in good conditions, as well.   
  
  Q. Has it been a case of bouncing back since The Ryder Cup, or is it just another week and on you go?   
 SØREN HANSEN: Well, it's been a case of recovering, I must admit. It took a lot out of you. It was a great experience, The Ryder Cup, and it's just trying to get back to play your normal play, you know you can play, and find some energy. I didn't do much practise last week but I've done a fair bit this week and you know, this first round, I'm very pleased with that.   
  
  Q. Is it nice playing without the pressure of qualifying on your shoulders?   
 SØREN HANSEN: Yeah, but there's always things that you have to do; and then there's The Ryder Cup; and then there's finishing there and here, and you've got to get into this tournament and onto that tournament. Every tournament really is about handling the pressure and playing well. But at the end of the day, you've got to enjoy what you're doing and the more you can do that, the better shots you produce, there's no question about that.   
  
  Q. How about Vladimir's golf; not as good as his boxing, is it?   
 SØREN HANSEN: I was afraid he was going to let it go on a few holes and break a few clubs but he seems like a very relaxed guy. But I certainly don't want to go into that ring with him. He's a monster. He's a big house. I'm sure he can throw a few punches.  
  
  Q. Do you get anything from playing with a great champion, someone who has risen to the top of the world in their game?  
 SØREN HANSEN: Yeah, obviously we had a chat about how does he train and what does he do. I'm really looking forward to the next couple of days, because you can learn from all champions, and he's definitely one of them. He's an interesting character. I didn't know much about him before, sort of went on the Internet last night and read a bit about him. He's a really chilled, laid back guy and he's good company, really.   
  
  Q. What was one thing you learned in The Ryder Cup?  
 SØREN HANSEN: There's a lot of things, but I think that I can handle the pressure under the most extreme circumstances, and you know, my personal game, if I hole a few more 12-footers at the right moment, I mean, that's the key to winning those tournaments at the end of the day. I had a few putts here and there which just slipped by and that let's the other guy in. I reckon I've played well enough but at the end of the day I only got half a point from three goes. You've got to try and learn from that.   
 I really think that I've got the game for it. That Friday afternoon when I holed that chip, it not only brought me to believe that I could do it at the right moment but it also sort of maybe even brought the whole team together and believed that we can actually come back from something that didn't look quite good.   
 The next day we went out in the morning to play well. We won the Friday but holing a few more putts at the end, that's what it was all about.  
  
  Q. McDowell was saying how deflating it was to work so hard to get on to the team but to be on the losing side, did you sort of feel that, too?  
 SØREN HANSEN: I think the way everything went, it just went that way, you know, and you can't do anything about that. The putts just dropped. I mean, the guy I played with all of a sudden stiffed it from 14, 15, 16, 17, he just hit it inside six feet. It seemed to happen to everybody.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT