MERCEDES-BENZ CHAMPIONSHIP IN COLOGNE
September 14, 2008
Soren Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. So we have to ask you, 1 birdies and three eagles, that's the question we have to ask you; not so much of a question as a statement. So where have you been playing at? 
 SØREN HANSEN: I don't know. It was either really fun or it was a disaster. No, I've never played a tournament and made that many birdies and you know, throwing in with a few eagles as well. Under normal circumstances, I would probably have been right up there battling with Karlsson, but it was not to be. I'm still very happy with my performance. I played really good, but made a lot of clumsy mistakes to be honest.

 Q. Was this the kind of preparation that you wanted to get a good week under the belt?
 SØREN HANSEN: Well, birdies in match play is fantastic, so I knew if I can keep this going, it will be fantastic and it will be good fun. 
 But you know, different circumstances next week, just have to wait and see. 

 Q. Pretty good defence of your title wasn't it?
 SØREN HANSEN: Yeah, that's another thing I'm really pleased about, because I didn't -- my first title at the Irish Open, I never really got in there. But this one, I actually defended well. I made a lot of birdies and showed the crowd what it's all about and at the end of the day, I just made too many mistakes, but right up there. It's just Karlsson who has run away.

 Q. Looking back it was that win 12 months ago that got you on that flight tomorrow, isn't it?
 SØREN HANSEN: Yeah, it set a good pace. I was playing good golf in the summer and set the pace with that win and I've played pretty steady since then. 
 I'm making a few clumsy mistakes here and there, a stupid 3-putt out of no where, an easy up-and-down that I don't get up-and-down. It's those sort of mistakes, if you can eliminate those, I'm right there. I'm sure that hopefully it will be eliminated already next week.

 Q. Have you been speaking to the other guys this week?
 SØREN HANSEN: Yeah, Miguel was a bit quiet but was a bit more lively yesterday. I spoke to the other boys, as well, and everybody is in pretty good form. So it's good. 

 Q. Any advice from people like Darren Clarke? 
 SØREN HANSEN: I spoke to Darren, as well. He had a few funny comments. 

 Q. Such as? 
 SØREN HANSEN: Well, we were talking about the first tee. You know, I've talked to Thomas in the past and a few others, so there's a few people that have been around just to say nice things. You know, you can feel the support from all of the other guys and their playing partners as well this week have been tremendous. 
 So even John Daly and Couples have been good, so that's been good. 

 Q. Are you pretty relaxed about it all or are you starting to get excited now that you're finished? 
 SØREN HANSEN: I'm as relaxed as I can be. It's always going to be really exciting and I'm really looking forward to it. It's like a little dream come true. As I said to the Danish press last week, it's a thing you -- I remember being a kid, you stand there and the sun is going down and it's dark and you're holing putts to win The Ryder Cup and all of that, and all of a sudden you're actually there. 

 Q. Have you tried on the clothes you're going to wear?
 SØREN HANSEN: I tried them. 

 Q. Are they okay?
 SØREN HANSEN: They fit perfectly. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT