MERCEDES-BENZ CHAMPIONSHIP IN COLOGNE
September 12, 2008
Soren Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. What a start today. 
 SØREN HANSEN: Yes, fantastic one. Everybody is complaining about the weather and came out all good and holed a few putts and off I went. Yeah, a fantastic feeling.

 Q. So you bogey 6, birdie 7, get to 11; what happened there? 
 SØREN HANSEN: I definitely lost that hole in The Match Play, that's for sure. What happened, I hit it in the bunker, bad lie and hit it on the green and lost my head for a little bit and 4-putted for a nice little six. In match play, that would have been a lot of hole.

 Q. Did you swear at yourself at that time?
 SØREN HANSEN: Oh, big time, yeah. I don't want to say the words but it was good it was in Danish, anyway.

 Q. After that, you found your game once more. 
 SØREN HANSEN: Yeah, I hit a bad drive afterwards but got lucky with the lie and the rough was tripped down and hit a great 7-iron and holed that putt. 
 Hit the next, 13, in two, and nearly holed it for eagle and all of the sudden I was off again. Yeah, I played good from there on in. Only mistake I made on the back nine after that was the 7-iron -- no, sorry, 17, I hit an 8-iron in and sort of pulled a little bit in the bunker left. 

 Q. You're defending champion; is it fun?
 SØREN HANSEN: It's quite fun. It's interesting. There's a lot of things going on with Ryder Cup next week and defending here there's a lot of questions. I felt yesterday I was tired, had a lot of things going on and today I had a good night's sleep and I felt ready to go. 

 Q. You know, we call you the "Danish Birdie Machine," ten birdies today. Nick Faldo is probably watching this right now. What do you say with the mixture coming up on Friday, four-ball and foursomes?
 SØREN HANSEN: Well, a lot of birdies today but I lost one hole today no matter who I played, and that was 11, and otherwise I played very well.

 Q. And you're right in there with two rounds to go. 
 SØREN HANSEN: Yeah, and hopefully the weather will improve. The course is holding up as it is. 

 Q. Just the sort of thing the captain will be looking for; birdies win matches. 
 SØREN HANSEN: I made a lot today, and I'm very pleased with that obviously. I probably lost one hole today, and that was 11. Yeah, I'm obviously very pleased. Yesterday I didn't hole much. I was struggling a little bit. I felt tired. 
 But I came really good out of the box today. You're standing there and thinking this is going to be a round of survival because of the weather, but I came out hitting good shots and making birdies, and it just clicked. 
 I got in there and I was really focused, and then I just lost it a bit on 11 but got it straight back, which shows character, once again, and I'm really pleased with that. 

 Q. Did you start with the worst of the rain?
 SØREN HANSEN: I think everybody had a bit of rain today. I've seen worse at times and especially at the end because you sort of got really wet at the end. But I think everybody had it today. When we were warming up, it was really coming down, but I think that maybe now it's a little bit cooler and the ball doesn't travel as far and the wind has picked up a little bit. 
 So all in all, it's a pretty miserable day, except for a few birdies.

 Q. Was it good all-around play or putting is particularly good? 
 SØREN HANSEN: I drove the ball well. I hit -- it seemed like every time, I had a lot of seven irons today and whenever I had that in my hand, I just seemed to stiff it and hole out for it. Then I holed the putts, as well, and it was just -- really looking back at the round, you can look back at 11, and making a stupid triple-bogey there. But the thing is, I got is back straight after and that means a lot. I'm really pleased with my performance. 

 Q. A certain message to send to Mr. Faldo if he's watching? 
 SØREN HANSEN: I don't know if he's watching but we all want to play well. Robert is playing well, we're all playing well and it's nice we're here. The guys at Gleneagles performed well, also. It looks good. 
 It's all down to next week and the first three days in the practise. I think if we play our own game and our own golf, each of us, we'll all come together and we'll all be a happy family.

 Q. Do you have any thoughts on pairings, anyone you would particularly like to play with? 
 SØREN HANSEN: The way I played today, I could play with anybody to be honest with you.

 Q. You could play on your own. 
 SØREN HANSEN: Yeah, play on my own. (Laughter) It would be nice to have somebody who has tried it before. I think that we are a team that anybody can play with anybody, and there's always pairings, Garcia/Westwood in the past have been a fantastic pairing. 
 You know, we all have to see. It's all about the course and how we play the first three days in practise. To mention names, it would be nice, as I said, if you do make a little -- like today at 11, I know that I have the game to come straight back but it would be nice to have somebody back me up at that particular moment. You never know what can happen, and a guy who can back you up if you're struggling is very important. 

 Q. Is that in the back of your mind, or are you focused on this tournament?
 SØREN HANSEN: I've said to myself all year I want to defend this title and so far I'm doing well. But there's a long way to go. There's a lot of good players playing well. But this is a tournament -- this is the first tournament I pulled away and won in style and it was a great feeling. It means a lot to me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT