MERCEDES-BENZ CHAMPIONSHIP IN COLOGNE
September 10, 2008
Soren Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 SCOTT CROCKETT: Welcome back to the Mercedes Benz Championship as defending champion, a great victory last year which began your run which has ended with qualifying for The Ryder Cup - reflect on last year's tournament - it was a great week for you, wasn't it?
 SÃƒï¿½REN HANSEN: It was indeed. I only have good memories about it. I played fantastic golf that week to put a crown on a really good summer. I finished off in style by winning by four shots and it was one of those tournaments that you look back on and you remember everything so clearly and how you were able to relax coming down the last hole and stuff like that. It is good memories to have.
 SCOTT CROCKETT: It must be hard to not think about next week because I know you are very keen to put up a good title defence first and foremost?
 SÃƒï¿½REN HANSEN: Yes and no because I got in the team with two great performances in Holland and Gleneagles and then I was really happy to have got into the team at Gleneagles but I was also a little bit disappointed because I played myself into the tournament and threw the chance of winning away a little bit on the last nine holes. So this week is all about getting back into that mode, see if I can get back the feelings of last year and try and go into the last 18 holes this week with a chance. There is a lot of talk about next week but this is a tournament I obviously really like, it is on a good golf course which is in great condition and I just want to play well and defend well. At the end of the day, that is the mindset I am trying to tell myself all the time that this is a tournament, and it is not all about next week, that will come when we get there so this is an important week for me as well.
 SCOTT CROCKETT: How did you play today? 
 SÃƒï¿½REN HANSEN: Well, I didn't drive the ball that well, which was a bit weird, but I played so-so. I didn't make any bogeys, so that's a plus. You always want a few more birdies. But the condition of the course is fantastic and the greens are the best we've putted on all year. And there's really no excuse not to play well today, because it was like playing indoors. 
 Yes, but I'm looking forward to the next four days. It's about getting into the swing again, into the right timing, and we'll see where we are on Sunday and hopefully we will get into some form for next week as well. 

 Q. This week, I accept that it is obviously very special to you, as well, but what do you think you'll bring to the team next week? 
 SÃƒï¿½REN HANSEN: I think I'll bring consistency. I've shown it, The Ryder Cup qualification started at Switzerland last year but before that I've played tremendous golf. I've done that for nearly two years now straight. There has not been a tournament in Europe where I have not knocked on the door on the weekend. So there's no reason why I shouldn't perform really well next week. 
 I think I'm an easy fit, as well. There's a lot of strong guys on that team and I fit in with everybody pretty well. I'm an easy going guy. If I get my game right and I play well, I am definitely strong enough to be on that team and I'm strong enough to partner with somebody and give a really good result. 
 I think that all of the excitement about it, all of the cheers and what you've seen on TV over the years, I just want to be a part of that. I just badly want to lift that trophy, or this Cup as well of course, on Sunday. 

 Q. It's a question we ask the rookies, looking back at Brookline in '99, a mistake not playing before the foursomes, do you think that you will get at least one game before the singles, if not more, and if you had any sort of talks with Nick Faldo about that?
 SÃƒï¿½REN HANSEN: Well, time will show. I'm sure whoever plays well in the practise or whoever sort of -- whoever shows form, that's the guys who are going to play. This is a team event and it's not about individual and how many matches you can get. It's about points, and you want 14 1/2 points, and whoever is going to get that it doesn't matter. I just think that that's what it's all about. And I think those -- I have a feeling that we'll all come out and play great in the practise and if we do that, we all have a shot of however many matches we get, doesn't really matter. It's all about those points. 

 Q. So you wouldn't be upset if you didn't play the foursomes, if it came to that?
 SÃƒï¿½REN HANSEN: Well, I have a feeling I will because I feel like I'm playing well. So I don't really have any thought of it. 
 If you play well, you obviously get your chance. I think as I said before, if I play my game, if I play good, then I will be a good help for that team, definitely. 

 Q. We asked Graeme McDowell who was in earlier and he was asked who he would like to play with, and he perhaps unsurprising my said Padraig Harrington or Sergio Garcia. Do you have any thoughts on a partner? You said you are easygoing, but do you have an ideal playing partner in mind?
 SÃƒï¿½REN HANSEN: I think it's common sense that the three guys who have not played before, you have somebody to back you up, and obviously if you can lean against somebody that's played before, Sergio, Harrington, Westwood, I mean, the names are long on this team. I think that's something to be looked at definitely. 
 As I said again, it's all about the form of the week and I'm sure that with the experience of Nick Faldo, OlazÃƒ ¡bal and the other guys who have tried before, we all come together as a team. It's going to be pretty easy to find the perfect fit, partner for you I think. 

 Q. Just since your place has been confirmed on the side, have you heard from Thomas BjÃƒ ¶rn?
 SÃƒï¿½REN HANSEN: You mean talked to him about the Ryder Cup? 

 Q. Yeah, what sort of advice did he give you? 
 SÃƒï¿½REN HANSEN: I've talked to Thomas throughout the year, from the nerve-wracking walk from the range to the first tee and all of that, so I know all about that. Lately we talk a lot about getting into the team, how am I going to -- how am I going to just do my own thing and all that sort of thing. 
 I mean, we talk about how to get into the team, and now I've spoke to him the other day, and the talk was more like, you know, mixing with the boys and he really enjoyed the moment and all of that. So a guy who has been around for such a long time and played a lot of Ryder Cups and had success, it's been a joy to talk to him and it's been nice to talk to somebody who has actually been there and done it. 
 A few words here and there has helped over the years, and it's nice, it's all about coming to trust yourself and play the best you can. 

 Q. I don't think you'll be as aggressive as Thomas was when he played because he once told a captain to go away. 
 SÃƒï¿½REN HANSEN: Yeah, it's sort of a nice feeling because I've always looked up to Nick Faldo. When I started, he was definitely the guy you sort of -- whatever he did, you tried to copy it. And it was sort of nice that he was at the Seve Trophy and you sort of get a more relaxed attitude towards him and I think he's going to be a great captain. 
 Everything is always planned to the last detail and I'm sure he's got everything worked out. I think it's a fairly young team, and he likes that, so, yeah, I would say he likes that. 
 I think that, you know, I just think we are going to come together. I'm pretty sure of it. We all have that picture of lifting that trophy and bringing it back home on that plane, and I'm just so positive about everything about The Ryder Cup. I'm looking forward to this week, but to be honest, I can't wait. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: SÃƒ ¸ren, thank you, as always. Good luck this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT