JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 29, 2008
Soren Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How pleasing was that?  
 SØREN HANSEN: Very pleasing, it wasn't really pretty the first few holes, and got it back on the back nine, which is the front nine, but seemed to stay patient and at the end, trusted a few putts and they seemed to drop.   
  
  Q. Your iron play, really good at the moment?  
 SØREN HANSEN: I wouldn't say it's really good but it's pretty good. As I said yesterday, I really like the course and can see the shots here and can visualize it before I hit it and that makes it a lot easier.  
  
  Q. With all of The Ryder Cup hype going on, is it nice to get inside the ropes and get away from it?  
 SØREN HANSEN: Yeah, but you've sort of got used to it the last few weeks, pop a microphone, every time you step on the range here comes a microphone and camera. But it feels good, it feels good to be in contention and when you can back it up with good play, it's a nice feeling.  
  
  Q. Is it time to relax or kick on?   
 SØREN HANSEN: I have to kick on. I have a little problem with the wrist, I don't know what it is. On the third hole today I really kicked it off in the rough and a little worried about that but I'm sure the physios will sort it out.   
 My wrist, it was there in 2004 all summer really and I saw a guy, he sort of got it on the right track again, and I see him frequently and it sort of disappears when I see him but he's obviously not here. It's something to do with my neck and my shoulder and it doesn't really get the flow down to the hand. I don't know what it is, but he seemed to have it under control. His name is Ole Kaare Foeli, quite a funny name. He's the main man back home in Denmark.   
  
  Q. A golf course that you like and being in contention, does it help that you've come to this last qualifying event for The Ryder Cup and you know you've got a good chance of going on?   
 SØREN HANSEN: Yeah, obviously like it, and as I said earlier, it seems like I could see the shots and visualize them good, and that's probably why my iron shots are pretty good, as well.   
 I just seem to be able to see the ball before I actually hit it.   
  
  Q. In relation to The Ryder Cup, makes it a bit easier to deal with?   
 SØREN HANSEN: Yeah, definitely. Being at sort of your home track helps but I must admit I'm a little bit disappointed with the greens. It's not like it's been the last few years but it has to be mentioned I think.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT