JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 28, 2008
Soren Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tell us about a good round of golf because that is a good score in these conditions. 
 SØREN HANSEN: I'm very, very pleased. It's soft. A tough day again today. The greens are not in the best shape, so there's not many putts to be holed really. Well, on good greens, it would probably be a lot better score but I'm very pleased with 2-under.

 Q. You said those greens are not in good shape. How bad are they for the afternoon, because even the morning players were saying they were likely to get very bumpy. 
 SØREN HANSEN: I think they are very unreliable. You're not too sure if you can hole a simple tap-in. 
 On No. 10, I hit a good little chip down to about a few inches and hit that putt where I thought it should be and never saw the hole. It's not a nice feeling to have when you are standing on the short putts and you don't know if it goes one way or the other. 
 But it seems like when if you do hit a good putt and get a good roll on it, there's a chance that it can go in. But I'm just very pleased that I was able to hold it all together. 

 Q. We had this conversation about holding it together last week; I suppose the pressure doesn't get any less at the last event. 
 SØREN HANSEN: I know, but you know, I've played solid golf, and I did that last year. I came back a lot of times last week and I learned a lot from that. This week I'm on a golf course where I feel a bit more at home. The last three years I've finished two and three, or is it three and three -- I can't remember. I've done well here the last two years so there's no reason why that can't continue. 
 I just hope the greens will roll a bit better as it dries out for the week. It's just a matter of staying in there until Saturday and Sunday.

 Q. You're pretty confident about your ability to do just that? 
 SØREN HANSEN: I am, yeah, as I say, there's no reason why not. I'm playing well enough. It was really solid today and I'm pretty confident. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT