ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 4, 2007
Soren Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  A round which continues your great form? 
 SØREN HANSEN: Yes it did although funnily enough I didn't feel that great on the range this morning but I managed to hit some good shots here and there and roll in some good putts especially around the turn. On the last few holes maybe I could have pushed for a few more because I was close on the 14th, the 16th and the 18th but I missed them all. Maybe that made up for the ones I holed around the turn because there were some big putts but all in all it was a very satisfying day. 

 Q.  For all the courses you play around the world, is there still a thrill to come and play the Old Course? 
 SØREN HANSEN: Definitely. When you stand on the 14th tee your heart is still going and coming to the 17th when you have to hit it over the corner of the hotel, it is just a different feeling. I know some of the boys are teeing off at the tenth but it is great to play the course the way I did, teeing off at the first and coming back to the clubhouse, that is the way to play here. I haven't really had much success here in St Andrews but today was a very good day. 

 Q.  Tell me about your amateur partner, Ed Herlihy, is he an Augusta member? 
 SØREN HANSEN: He is and we spoke about that. He has a fantastic putting stroke and I didn't know anything about him and I said, with a putting stroke like that you must be a member of Augusta and he said, "Actually I am!" He is a fantastic guy and we had a great day. He just flew in last night so he was a bit tired and I think he will feel a bit better tomorrow. 

 Q.  Following on from Cologne, your confidence and momentum is obviously still there? 
 SØREN HANSEN: Oh yes, I am playing well and I played really well last week in the Seve Trophy too even though I played all the matches but only came away with 1 1/2 points. That felt a bit weird but I did feel like I played pretty well. 

 Q.  I was with you in Cologne and we could see how much it meant to you to eventually get that second win after coming close a lot recently? 
 SØREN HANSEN: Absolutely, I feel like I have been knocking on the door a lot recently and then all of a sudden to get over the finish line was great. I have been waiting for it a little bit and it was a long time since I won the last time but now I feel like I am pretty much in control of what I am doing and it is fantastic playing golf that way. 

 Q.  It is not often on Tour you play different types of golf so close together? 
 SØREN HANSEN: That's true, it is a different week this, especially playing the three different courses because it means you can be lucky on one course one day but unlucky the other day on another course, especially with links golf. But I think this is a great tournament and I think it should always be part of the Tour. Day in day out playing the same format can get a bit much which is why I think the Dunhill is such a great diversity and a great tournament. 

 Q.  And you enjoyed the match play in the Seve Trophy? 
 SØREN HANSEN: What a thrill that was. It is a different thing coming up the 18th and you are playing for a team rather than just yourself, you are carrying a bit more on your shoulders that way. But it was a nice feeling to have and maybe a nice practice for what might come in the future. 

 Q.  Getting you ready for Valhalla? 
 SØREN HANSEN: We'll see. There is still a long way to go. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT