BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 12, 2007
Soren Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MICHAEL GIBBONS:  The good form continues.  Tell us about that today.   
  SØREN HANSEN:  Well, I just played solidly again today and really enjoyed the golf course.  It's a fantastic place and has always inspired me to play good golf at this place.  This is just one of most beautiful courses I've ever been on.    
  Q.  How difficult is it after a disappointing finish at The K Club to get over that?   
 SØREN HANSEN:  Well, it's the third week I've done it, so it seems pretty easy actually.   
 No, I'm playing, I'm playing well and I'm enjoying playing.  I'm hitting the ball really, really well.  So there's no reason why I shouldn't go out and play well again.   
  
  Q.  You're not beating yourself up at all?   
 SØREN HANSEN:  Not really.  You have to remember, a month ago I was 124th on the Order of Merit, and I've had a half a year where I really didn't know what I was doing.  And then all of a sudden a few things clicked and I changed caddie and I'm on a run.  I'm just happy playing good golf.   
 Of course I'm disappointed about last week because I really felt like I played the golf to win, but I just didn't take my chances on the front nine on Sunday to quiet everybody off and say, well, Søren is leading by four, we are playing for second.  I just didn't do that.  At the end of the day I got beaten by a better player and may have got beat by the weather, as well.   
  I came straight here and had a few days to relax and think about it and what can I do just a little bit better and here I am on Thursday playing well.    
  Q.  New caddie --   
 SØREN HANSEN:  I'm sure he's pleased.   
  
  Q.  Who is he?   
 SØREN HANSEN:  John Graham, Scotchy.  He's been around forever.  Worked for Westwood in several Ryder Cups and great experience, worked for a lot of great players.  He has not been working for nine months.  He got a little baby boy and then he decided to come back out and I was sort of lucky to be the man he wanted to work for.   
  
  Q.  You said things clicked; was there anything that struck you?   
 SØREN HANSEN:  I tell you what, I've been feeling my game has been really good for a long time.  I just haven't put the results in.  I played really good from tee-to-green even about a month or two before I actually did something about it in France.  There was a few things clicking, I've been working hard on my wedges.  I never really hit my wedges close at the start of the year and I've been working really hard on that and it seems to pay off.  I start to hit my distances when I'm within 120 yards.  It's easier to hole shorter putts than longer putts and that's been the difference really.  And all of a sudden you get this feeling that I can do it all the time really.   
  
  Q.  Did Anders' win at Wentworth help you?   
 SØREN HANSEN:  Because he was in the same situation really.  He went to America, didn't quite do well, and you know, it was sort of the same year we had going really and nothing really happened.   
 I spoke to him at Wentworth on Wednesday and he said he was actually feeling the same way as me.  He thought he played all right but just nothing happened.  He win on to win it and of course that's a boost for me, as well.  Same old story.  I don't want to lose ground to him, so I've got to catch up, don't I.   
 No, he's playing well and I'm playing well and I'm happy for both of us really.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS:  Søren, well done.   
FS   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT