SMURFIT KAPPA EUROPEAN OPEN
July 7, 2007
Soren Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Well played today. A really great round 
which seemed to really spark when you missed a short putt at 13. The annoyance seemed to spur you into action? 
 SØREN HANSEN: I hit a fat second shot into 13 and came up short right. I hit a very good chip up but missed a really short putt. It was howling down at that point and I had a hard time focusing, and I just missed it. To be honest that pissed me off a little bit. Then the good weather came down the stretch and that sort of got me going a bit. I hit a really shot into the next one and made birdie; had a good chance at 15; rolled a very nice putt in on 16 and a long one in on 17. All of sudden it was like a birdie train in the good weather. 

 Q. Can you give us the lengths of those putts? 
 SØREN HANSEN: I missed from three feet at 13, at 14 I holed from ten feet. Missed from ten feet at 15, holed from 15 feet at 16 and holed a massive one, from probably 40 feet, all the way from the left corner, at 17 and rolled in a nice 12 footer at the last. There were some good shots but also a bit of fortune on 17 also. 

 Q. There is a feeling that history is repeating itself. When Anders HANSEN: won the PGA Championship in 2002 you won the Irish Open soon after. Anders won the PGA again this year so it's a good omen for you? 
 SØREN HANSEN: I wish I could finish it as well. That would be fantastic. Five years from when Anders won in 2002 to now, 2007, is way too long for a player of Anders' calibre and I think the same way about myself. Without a win for five years is a long time but I will take one step at a time , but I will take one step at the time. Last week I was sitting here saying the same thing. I have come off a terrible season but now I am playing good golf and putting myself in contention and that is what it's all about. God knows what will happen tomorrow - it's a packed leaderboard. 

 Q. You were leading at this stage last week but had a bad start on Sunday. Must have been proud with bouncing back and going so close? 
 SØREN HANSEN: That was by far my best performance on a Sunday after such a bad start. I made two double bogeys within six holes and bounced back. In the end of the day I got beaten by a guy who shot 66. To me that was more important more than anything else: that I bounced back from something horrible. I hit some terrible shots in the first two days here but came out of it. I played fantastic today. I have proved I can bounce back and that is the mindset I am going to go out with tomorrow. 

 Q. Why the decline after 2002? 
 SØREN HANSEN: I have been close to winning. I just think it is getting harder to win a tournament as time goes on. I feel like every year that I am better player but, except for last week, I haven't been over the last six months. I have gone downhill. But now I am starting to find my game again and starting to believe in it. 

 Q. Can you explain the Open entry situation. How much of a motivation is it to get in this week? 
 SØREN HANSEN: I must admit I made a massive mistake, because I didn't know the rules. First of all I told my manager at the start of the year that I didn't want to play Sunningdale I want to play local qualifying. That was a misunderstanding because I have never entered the British Open. That was the first mistake. I hope that this week or next week would see me through because I love playing the British Open. I have had some good success in it and I always enjoy it and this year we are playing a fantastic golf course. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT