BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
September 1, 2006
Soren Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SØREN HANSEN:  It had me going, had me thinking about it as well, but I've never tried to hit that many 3S in a row, only on my home club.
Q.  An astonishing way to start, it must breed confidence, it really must?

SØREN HANSEN:  Yeah, it's good all these 3S.  It's sort of the way the course is set up.  I got a good few birdies there on the par 4s and pars on the par 3s, and all of a sudden it looks like a lot of threes and sort of build on to a good round today having had that good of a start.
Q.  Do you feel that momentum is with you, just take it on to the next?

SØREN HANSEN:  Unfortunately it doesn't work like that.  If you start off well, it would be nice to just keep on hitting the gas pedal but sometimes it comes back in your face.

But I managed to stay very patient today and I'm at peace with 66 today.
Q.  You should be, and you're in a very nice position for the weekend again.

SØREN HANSEN:  Yeah, I'm there, I'm quite pleased.
Q.  I know we've had this conversation this season but there have been times when you've not put the four rounds together, but that's the key, isn't it?

SØREN HANSEN:  Yeah, I think I've done really well over the summer and the start of this year.  It just didn't work out, but I had one bad round here and there, you know, and over the summer I played some good golf and finished second.  But I mean, you know, I just played well and I just, you know, it's all you can do is just wait and see what happens after Sunday.  You can't really push things in this game.
Q.  What's it like as a player who is not in the Ryder Cup but playing in an event where everybody is talking about it?

SØREN HANSEN:  I think it's quite funny because you can sort of sneak off without anybody noticing.  And I'm sure I probably can't keep quiet on the weekend, but I think it's a great tournament.  It's a great tournament where the Ryder Cup is decided and I'm just enjoying it really.

I always enjoy playing the BMW here in Munich.  It's a fantastic event.  Everything is so beautiful, a lot of people, good golf course, a lot of birdies and a lot of    you can make a lot of mistakes as well and a lot of things can happen.  So all in all, I think golf tournament is just one of a kind.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT