DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 3, 2006
Soren Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Terrific round.  Well-played.
SOREN HANSEN:  Yeah, I holed a lot of putts.  I really hit a lot of greens.  It was a nice feeling.
Q.  The feeling that you've had a couple of times but not kept it together?
SOREN HANSEN:  I haven't kept the four rounds going, you see, so I like to place, so we'll see what happens.
Q.  Is this a place you've done well before?
SOREN HANSEN:  No, to be honest, I've always finished in the middle of the pack, so been looking forward to improving that obviously.
Q.  How is it playing out there?
SOREN HANSEN:  It's getting a little bit windier now.  So it's going to be a little bit more tricky this afternoon, but this morning it was lovely.  The course played lovely and the greens are holding and they were really good, putting out.  It was a pleasure to play, really.
Q.  Is it playing easier this year because they have they don't have the rough up like they might normally?
SOREN HANSEN:  We usually play a month later.  This year you're walking up there hoping for a good lie and more often than not, you get one.  So it's a little bit less of a challenge this year.
Q.  What's the highlight of your day?
SOREN HANSEN:  I think there's actually many.  I just holed a lot of putts and it was quite short and some long putts.  So I guess it was a lucky day, really.  So I really enjoyed that, especially after the last few weeks.  I missed the cut in Qatar and had a really, really bad weekend.  So nice to know that I can go out and still play.
Q.  Have you been working hard in the meantime?
SOREN HANSEN:  I work pretty hard at the game because I really enjoy it.  I really enjoy playing.  It was one of those days where you have to sit back and be happy because everything just seems to, you know, go in the hole for some reason.
Q.  Is there anything that you've particularly drilled over the last couple of weeks?
SOREN HANSEN:  No.  I just try to do the same thing that I've done all year and over Christmas.  I had a little baby boy in December and that's been quite a lot of time.  So I only had a few days of practice before I stepped up to the tee.

You know, I haven't really done anything different, just keep working on the same things.  I feel like I've been playing well for quite a while.  Just as I said before, haven't really scored.
Q.  Inaudible?
SOREN HANSEN:  I do now.  You get to sleep when you're traveling.  Actually he's a good boy, he sleeps like his father; it's quite interesting.  I've been away now for three weeks and it's going to be interesting to come back.   It's definitely the wildest experience I've ever had.
Q.  What's his name?
SOREN HANSEN:  Casper.
Q.  The Friendly Ghost.
SOREN HANSEN:  The Friendly Ghost.
Q.  How do you feel chasing Tiger going into the weekend?
SOREN HANSEN:  As long as you're right behind him, I think you're doing pretty well.  He's a hard man to beat.  I would love to play with him.  We'll have to see.
Q.  Maybe the final round?
SOREN HANSEN:  Maybe the final round.  I hope so.  I'll cross my fingers that day and keep playing smart golf.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT