ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 20, 2006
Soren Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Great way to start your round.
SOREN HANSEN:  It's a very good course, it's an interesting place.  We've been going down to Dubai and it's very, very good.  It's good to start this way as well.
Q.  Was it obvious that it was much kinder today in terms of conditions?
SOREN HANSEN:  It didn't blow at all the first nine holes to be honest.  But it sort of picked up at a stage and it felt like some of the holes, I played all the way around today, some of the holes on the front nine were quite difficult.

I had 3 wood in on No. 5 and the tough par 4, I managed to chip in for a 3 so it makes things easy.  It feels like an eagle when you do stuff like that.  That's real the difference today.
Q.  It should be interesting to see whether the wind blows any stronger in the afternoon.  While you're reflecting on that, what about the whole change in The European Tour in the time that you've been a member, what we have now is a global tour; is it something that you envisaged when you first became a professional?
SOREN HANSEN:  You think when you join The European Tour, you play in Europe.  I think they stretch out the season now so we play all year round, really.  I think it's very good.  Let us play as much as we can.  I really enjoy coming to places like this.  This week we get treated so well; we should have more tournaments like this.
Q.  Some people say maybe there's too much traveling involved but it's become a tour of opportunity for players like yourself; is it not?
SOREN HANSEN:  Definitely.  I think it's a good thing.  If you like the game, the game of golf, you've got to play it and I think it's great that we play all over the world.
Q.  So what do you think it will take for the weekend?
SOREN HANSEN:  I think I played really well the first two days and I'm very, very pleased to be in this position.  It's my first tournament in a long time, and I'm just going to press on.  It's all you can do.

As you say, the wind is blowing and you just have to press on and play your own game I think that's the key word.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT