VOLVO PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2003
Soren Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  It was about this time last year that you started showing good form before the English Open and you went on to win.  Are you a seasonal player?  Did you have runs?
SOREN HANSEN:   I think it's a coincidence, really.  But I hope that you're right that the season will start now, but I think it's a coincidence.

Q.  Steady yesterday, overall?
SOREN HANSEN:   I've been playing well.  I can still hit it better off the tee.  I didn't hit it well today.  I had a few good drives here and there that kept gave me good opportunities with short irons to the pins.  At the par 5s today, I didn't really put myself in position to attack the green.  I got a lucky shot there on the last, from the rough, and I got a good fly and it rolled nicely on to the green.  Otherwise I would not have been able to go for the par 5s in two, where yesterday it was a different story. 

Q.  It would be nice to see two Hansens at the top of the leaderboard.
SOREN HANSEN:   Yes, I think hopefully we'll show a bit of form.  We haven't been performing well so far this year, but I think both of us are keen to do well again. 

Q.  Traditionally one of you has followed the other one, when Anders won here, you followed suit in the Murphy's Irish Open.  It would be certainly exceptional if you were to follow suit this week to win. 
SOREN HANSEN:   There's two rounds to go and it's a tricky golf course.  I'll sincerely do my best to play well and I've got to see what happens on Sunday, really.  It's still a lot of golf to be played and there's a lot of guys coming in later on today, so you never know what's going to be in the next two rounds.

Q.  Did the pressures of you and Anders' first-time wins change your game slightly over the last season to the beginning of this? 
SOREN HANSEN:   I don't know, it's difficult to say.  I mean, I sort of  -- when I won, I sort of backed it off in the Open a little bit.  I played well in the Open and had some good finishes there at the end of the year, but this year, I'm playing a little bit differently.  
It's just, I haven't really played more than two weeks in a row and I had some weeks off and then two weeks in a row.  Now I'm starting to feel that, you know, you get a few tournaments in and then it's easy to play.  You get more into the short game and every week seems to be a bit more consistent.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT