BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2002
Soren Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 STEWART McDOUGAL: Soren Hansen, 70 today for 3 under par.  It was a tough day.  How do you feel it went for you.
SOREN HANSEN: It went all right at the end, but it was a long grind today.  I'm really pleased with the round as it is now, but I think it's the toughest round I've ever played.  I can't remember playing even for fun in this weather so I'm pretty pleased with it, really.

Q.  Des Smyth said for about an hour it was almost impossible.  He said in all the years he's been he's never known anything like it.
SOREN HANSEN:  As I said, I can't recall even playing for fun in that weather.  3, 4, 5, 6 , it was hammering down straight in our faces.  You couldn't hardly hold an umbrella.  My caddy and I were talking about, if this was the worst weather ever in the British Open.  And I don't know.  It has been 131 years.  I don't know if they've had such a tough day as this one, but it was definitely difficult and it was a long big grind for everybody, I guess.

Q.  Having survived a day like this, with a great score, considering the conditions and now having a chance to win, can you talk about going into the final round.
SOREN HANSEN: I'm definitely looking forward to tomorrow, but I'll say my game plan tomorrow is one shot at a time really.  I'm playing with a great guy, probably.  It looks like I'm playing with Ernie.  I'm just going to enjoy it really.  I'm pleased to have done what I've done so far and whatever happens tomorrow is great.  So I'm just really looking forward to tomorrow.  The game plan is the same, just grind it out.  Hopefully it will be better weather.

Q.  (Inaudible)?
SOREN HANSEN: When you're too close to a sign or anything, you get a free drop, and it was lying horribly, so I took advantage of the rules really and got a good drop on the path where everybody has been walking and I hit a fantastic shot and it was a good putt for par.

Q.  How important was that to your round?
SOREN HANSEN: I had a good chance on the hole before for birdie and missed it, and I three-putted the second and I reckon I would have probably lost a bit of momentum if I hadn't holed that.  That one kept me going for 5 and 6, which were playing real tough into the wind.  I think I hit driver, 2-iron, 4-iron on the Par 5 afterwards, I mean straight into the wind, so obviously it's nice to have holed such an important putt on the hole before.  I holed a lot of good putts for par today and it's important in tournaments, especially in the majors, par is a good score and today it's a fantastic score.

Q.  How much did Anders winning the Volvo PGA give you a lift and obviously winning your own first tournament; was that pretty remarkable for you?
SOREN HANSEN: It had an impact on me and also growing up in the same club, so obviously it was, if he can do it, I can do it.  We were always up against each other, in a good way you know.  He's been playing good golf, I have been playing some good golf the week after.  It was always ping pong between us.  Anders winning the Volvo PGA just made me think -- I was playing good at that as well, and I thought it just gave me a little boost.  It teased me a bit.

Q.  And then you went on to win?
SOREN HANSEN: I was second the week after, and then I was second and then I had two weeks break and then I went to the Irish Open and played some good golf.

Q.  Do you feel that you have more pressure on your shoulders now that you're in that position?
SOREN HANSEN: I'm relieved because people have been saying you're a good golfer and you have a great future in front of you, and it's just a matter of time before you're winning and all that.  I felt I was at a stage where I can actually go out and win even more, so you know, winning in the Irish Open was a great relief for me, really.

Q.  I know the conditions were a bit extreme today, but do you think there was a slight advantage to the Europeans golfers who are kind of used to playing in cooler conditions each in the summer?
SOREN HANSEN: My playing partner today was definitely  -- he wasn't used to that weather.  He said to me afterwards  -- he wasn't really happy with the weather.  Sure, we have an advantage.  I have definitely, because sometimes I can play for fun in this, but not as bad, but it sounds pretty bad now, but yeah, we probably have an advantage.

Q.  Can you explain what fun you have playing in conditions like this?
SOREN HANSEN: Not much.

Q.  Why do you do it then for fun?
SOREN HANSEN: It is the Open.

Q.  No, I mean when you're not here, you say you sometimes play for fun in it?
SOREN HANSEN: I talked about it this morning, I was on the range and it was hammering down on you couldn't hardly hit any balls because it was so wet and I said to my coach, well, normally you just sit there and look out of the window in the club house and you decide all right, let's go play nine holes, and you go straight to the tee and you play for fun.  That's normally the way I have done it before, you know.   But it's just nine holes and for fun, and it rains a lot in Denmark so you sometimes just have to do it.
STEWART McDOUGAL:  Soren, thank you. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT