IRISH OPEN PRESENTED BY DISCOVER IRELAND
July 29, 2011
Soren Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tell us what went right, because most things went right today, didn't they?
 SØREN HANSEN: They did. I played again sort of very, very similar round to yesterday. I just kept my head on very well. There was a few loose drives on the last nine holes, but hopefully I can sort that out by tomorrow, otherwise I played pretty good. 

 Q. And the key things there were, kept your head on. 
 SØREN HANSEN: I kept my head on, yes. I started this morning with a curveball into the hazard on the right and had to drop, it's easy to lose a little momentum and attitude. 
 But I just kept it going and made a nice birdie on the next, and then I sort of got into a frame of mind that I needed to score and concentrate on my own game and I actually didn't look on the leaderboard until I was standing on the 17th, so I did pretty well today.

 Q. And that first hole aside, everything has gone well for two days?
 SØREN HANSEN: I know, I've got to try and manage the first hole a little bit better tomorrow, but you know, I've had some good saves today for par, as well. 
 So all in all, I'm pleased with the round. I don't think I could have squeezed that much more out of it today. So I'm pleased with it.

 Q. Here is the key thing to say, two rounds, isn't it, because that's where some of the failings have been I guess of late, there's been a round --
 SØREN HANSEN: The last couple of months I've missed a lot of cuts and it's all due to I've had a high one, which is just destroying to obviously playing in the weekend if you're on the back foot; you won't play on the weekend, that's for sure. 
 So, I don't know, I just came into this week, hitting lovely iron shots, and it's just a matter of keeping the ball in play and I've managed to do that really, really well the first to days.

 Q. Good to be back in Ireland where you've won before?
 SØREN HANSEN: I love Ireland. It's always been treating me well and I've had good results here and good memories, and yeah, it's just nice to be playing well again, as well. Fota Island, it was my first victory, and obviously have very good memories of that. I don't know; it's just been good to me over the years.

 Q. And you're dressed as a pint of Guinness or Murphy's. 
 SØREN HANSEN: I was thinking about it this morning, I should have put the white hat on. Looks too much like a Guinness. Maybe I'll do that on Sunday. 

 Q. You were speaking about Clarke being your inspiration; have you spoken to him?
 SØREN HANSEN: I sent him a text on that Sunday evening, and I just think it's fantastic, you know, because you always saw him grinding away, two hours before he was there, putting, and he was the last man to leave the range, and you know, he never gave up. I just think it's some sort of -- it's a great story. 
 As long as I've seen and known Clarkey, he has always done that, and he's just kept on doing it, and just hats off, winning The Open there. Just phenomenal. 

 Q. Did he respond to your text? 
 SØREN HANSEN: By that, I mean, I'm sure he had like a hundred texts coming, but he did respond, and obviously it was a thriller he wrote back, but an acknowledgment is good enough for me.

 Q. You're not going to tell me what he told you. 
 SØREN HANSEN: No. (Laughter).

 Q. Do you have any memories of your Irish wins?
 SØREN HANSEN: Well, Fota Island, there was a lot of people as well, and I expect there will be a lot of people tomorrow, and I also expect that they are probably going to follow the four heros. 

 Q. Two left. 
 SØREN HANSEN: I'm sorry to hear that. But I'm sure those two will wave the Irish flag well.

 Q. Hopefully Clarkey will be texting you on Sunday night. 
 SØREN HANSEN: That would be nice. I'm looking forward to that.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT