IRISH OPEN PRESENTED BY DISCOVER IRELAND
July 28, 2011
Soren Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   SØREN HANSEN: It was a lot better than it has been the last few months really. After a shaky bogey on the first, I played some solid golf again, and yeah, it felt nice.

 Q. Solid; are you being modest? 
 SØREN HANSEN: No, it was good. Obviously on this golf course you're going to hit a few weird shots here and there, because it is a very demanding course from tee-to-green. But I hit some good shots. And yeah, very pleased with my performance.

 Q. What's made the difference?
 SØREN HANSEN: I don't know, I have a new set of irons in the bag and they seemed to work all right. I've worked a little bit with the Titleist boys with them, and yeah, it just seems maybe a little change is the difference really.

 Q. New for this week?
 SØREN HANSEN: New for this week. Only played a couple of practise rounds with them really, Pro-Am yesterday and maybe a total of 18 holes but I've hit a lot of shots with them on the range and they seemed to do the trick.

 Q. Feeling the need for a change? 
 SØREN HANSEN: I think I was in a state where you could have told me to jump on one leg and I would have jumped all the way around on one leg really. It's not been good the last few months, but it's slowly getting back there and today was proof of it I think.

 Q. I guess in a career like yourself, you've had down times in the past and you know there is an up swell in the future. 
 SØREN HANSEN: Yeah, exactly, you just have to keep going and grinding. I think following the example of Mr. Clarke a few weeks back lifting the Claret Jug, I'm so pleased for him, because he's a hard worker and he's been down up and down and up and it seems like now with that trophy, he can go even further from there. 
 I look a little bit like that. I'm not sort of the same calibre, but I've played my shares, been in the same sort of tournaments he has and it inspires you a little bit, too, to see him do that well.

 Q. Was going to ask whether inspirational was too strong a word as well. But you see resemblances? 
 SØREN HANSEN: Definitely. The last -- this year, you've seen Darren Clarke, two hours before his tee time standing on the putting green putting, you see him the last man to leave the range, whole story, and he wins the Claret Jug. He deserves it more than anybody. It just proves that up-and-downs and a bit of hard work, the golf game will turn around, and there will be happy days again.

 Q. So you're going to be first on the range, last off the putting green?
 SØREN HANSEN: Maybe not that severe, but certainly I have worked hard the last few months, and yeah, eventually you've got to stay patient and eventually it will stay patient.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT