THE CELTIC MANOR WALES OPEN
June 4, 2010
Soren Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You were 1-over par for eight holes in this championship and you're now 4-under; how do you feel about that halfway?  
 SØREN HANSEN: I feel good about it, because I've been struggling a little bit the last few weeks, and this week, there's a few shots clicked here and there. And I managed to hit some good ones and some good putts here and there.   
 4-under is not bad on this golf course, but I still feel like I'm a lot of shots back. Chris Wood is playing really well, and I was looking at his name all day long, and felt if I could gain one on him today, go out to six and seven, that would be a nice number; and then he would probably go out and play well, because he is playing well at the moment.  
  
  Q. Anything in particular click in your game that you feel is better?   
 SØREN HANSEN: I don't know, I've hit a lot of golf balls lately. There's a few shots that got a bit wild here and there, but just seems like a little bit more on board and happy. The putting is always a little bit streaky with me, but I feel like I'm getting back to my normal self.   
  
  Q. Tell us about the golf course and the conditions and the way it's playing compared to yesterday afternoon.   
 SØREN HANSEN: I think it's playing exactly the same. You know, we've got lovely weather and the wind is swirling around a little bit, that's the only thing but it's very minimal. There's hardly any breeze at all.   
 I think this is as good as it gets. The golf course is fantastic. You've got some demanding holes, and you've got some holes where you can go for birdies. I just think it's a brilliant golf course really.   
  
  Q. How good of a Ryder Cup venue will it be, match-play venue?  
 SØREN HANSEN: I think it will be very good. You know, I mean, you can take chances and also there's a few holes which are really going to bite you if you're not careful. I think that this is shaping up to be really, really lovely.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT