WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2010
Soren Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What did you hit into 18 yesterday? 
 SØREN HANSEN: Into 18 yesterday I hit a 3-iron and today I hit a wedge. A poor one, as well. 
 But what an amazing switch, standing on the 17th tee and all of a sudden the temperature dropped 15 degrees and the wind switches 180 degrees, and you've played the last two holes downwind. A little bit of luck there, so, yeah, that was good. A little bit different playing the last hole. 

 Q. And the rain came down pretty hard?
 SØREN HANSEN: Yeah, only for about five minutes. Sort of managed to escape our round, but some of the other boys, fingers crossed for everybody that they are going to come in dry and we'll finish today. I think with this weather forecast, we should be fortunate if we get it all finished today. 

 Q. You're obviously playing well?
 SØREN HANSEN: Playing really well. Hitting a lot of greens. Giving myself a lot of chances and I suppose that's what it's all about in this game. So, yeah. 

 Q. How are the energy levels after Malaysia?
 SØREN HANSEN: I'm very low. Wake up every night at two o'clock, and TV not that fun at two o'clock at night. 

 Q. Did you bring any films with you?
 SØREN HANSEN: I did all of those in Malaysia. I don't have any left, and I finished my book the first day. I read a Finnish book, I can't translate that, but it's a thriller, a good one. I finished it the other night so now I'm on magazines unfortunately. Hopefully I can get a bit more sleep tonight. 

 Q. What time did you get in from Malaysia Sunday night?
 SØREN HANSEN: Left Sunday and not here Monday afternoon via London. You travel with time. It's not too bad. I think normally I don't struggle with jet lag, but I think it's the fatigue of last week with the humidity and 45 degrees (Celsius). 

 Q. Is there a point, you thought, what did I do that trip for? 
 SØREN HANSEN: Well, I was sort of borderline in the top 50 in the world, and I thought it would be a good idea just to defend myself a little bit. As it turned out, I was in this tournament just before Malaysia, anyway, but you know --

 Q. So there was no impetus last week to keep yourself in the top 50?
 SØREN HANSEN: Yeah, exactly, but I do enjoy playing. I do enjoy travelling. It was a long trip, anyway. I feel like I'm getting my head down on the golf course and playing good golf, and then I can do some sleeping afterwards. 

 Q. Does it matter to perform well in an event in the States? 
 SØREN HANSEN: It means a lot to me. It's tough to perform well over here. I'm starting to get the hang under. 6-under at the U.S. Open last year. Last year at this tournament had sort of a turnaround for me. I shot 64 on Saturday, and you know, I sort of got the hang of it last year, and carried on and played well into the U.S. Open. I do enjoy playing over here I must admit.
 Playing over here is a little different because competition is harder, and you've got to score well. I think that I'm starting to get a bit more used to the guys over here, as well, and so, yeah, I like it over here. 

 Q. How was the U.S. Open performance for your confidence?
 SØREN HANSEN: It was great. I played awesome that week. Ripped it off the tee and played really great that week. It was a great confidence boost, especially in front of that crowd in New York, they were pretty good. As I say, I do enjoy playing golf over here.
 I think I've played Ryder Cup and a few things in Europe, I will probably stick my nose in here one day. By the time now -- I should be able to get the job done, and as I said last year, it was a learning curve to get it done over here, as well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT