ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 28, 2018
Chesson Hadley
Brice Garnett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Fantastic execution out there.  I imagine that was a score you guys had in mind when you arrived at the golf course.  
BRICE GARNETT: I texted him last night.  I said, Let's go get 12.  I think he thought I was thinking on the weekend.  I said, No, let's go get 12 tomorrow.   
We almost got there.  It was a fun day.  Right where we needed to be.   
 Q.  Chesson, you guys were the cream of the crop last year on the Web.Com Tour.  You've both played well this year.  I have to imagine coming into this week you guys were really pumped up to see what your talents could do together?  
CHESSON HADLEY: Yeah, absolutely.  You know, I've known Brice for quite a while now.  Our games are similar.  We both like to draw the ball and we both can get pretty hot with our putters and we're not afraid to make birdies.   
In this format, best ball format, we're very dangerous.  I think we'd both like to be a little bit more consistent tomorrow, and I think we will be just having a little bit of experience with alternate shot.   
But it's going to be a challenge.  You know, it's a different format.  It's a different feeling.  Hopefully we can go out there and play well tomorrow.   
 Q.  It was fun watching you guys work the strategy, who was going to putt first.  How do you adjust to playing a game that's so individual to trying to play a team game this week?  
BRICE GARNETT: It is, it's a totally different game.  As Chesson was saying with the alternate shot, you know, I felt pressures I hadn't felt this year even after winning a golf tournament.   
So I'll try to control those emotions tomorrow and just try to get as many looks on the greens as we can.   
 Q.  Chesson, when you see the fire this golf course can get into later in the day, how do you guys prepare for that one ball in play tomorrow?  
CHESSON HADLEY: Yeah, you know, this morning the first nine holes there was no wind.  As you saw, the scores were low.  I thought the front nine would set up very generously.  We seemed to get the ball in the hole a lot easier.   
But if the wind picks up, I mean, it's going to get nasty.  You saw it yesterday.  I was watching the carnage yesterday.  It's so hard.  The greens are getting really firm and fast.  It rained a little bit Thursday morning, but the course gets totally different in the afternoon when the water and moisture gets out of it.   
So it's going to be interesting tomorrow afternoon coming down the stretch.   
 Q.  Brice and Chesson, in at 18 under.  Brice, what kind of mindset did you take to the course today to score like that?  
BRICE GARNETT: Birdies.  I told Chesson last night, We need to go try to get 12-under today.  We almost got there.  I rode him pretty hard on the front nine, and then I was able to help him out on four or five holes to the back nine.   
 Q.  A clean, bogey-free card.  In your mind, what was the key to that consistency?  
CHESSON HADLEY: You know, we got off to a good start so had some nice momentum coming into the back nine.  You know, we just ham and egged it really well.  Brice was able to make some birdies and some pars when I was kind of struggling.   
It was just a great day; it's exactly how you would want it to go.  So we would love for tomorrow to go as smoothly.   
 Q.  Speaking of tomorrow, playing in the final round with alternate shot.  What kind of challenge does that format present?  
CHESSON HADLEY: Yeah, it's totally different.  Obviously it's a team format, but it's good.  It's a good thing.  It prepares us for maybe some Ryder Cup, Presidents Cups down the road.   
We got some experience with it on Friday and got to feel some of the feelings that come with that.  Hopefully we can be a little bit more consistent tomorrow.  I think we will, especially with having already done that on Friday.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT