NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: PENGUINS VS SENATORS
May 20, 2017
Jean-Gabriel Pageau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Easy to identify the missing ingredient or ingredients from last night's game?  
JEAN-GABRIEL PAGEAU: I mean, we know which way we have to be better.  Obviously now we're going Game 5.  They obviously played better than us for two games.  We did for two games.  That's why it's 2-2.  Now we're heading into a Game 5.   
We're going to keep our heads up.   
 Q.  How confident is this team on the road?  
JEAN-GABRIEL PAGEAU: We know we could do a good job, can do a good job.  We beat them in their barn.  We know it's not an easy task.  We got to be able to play with urgency right away.  I think when we do, we really put the chance on our side to make a good push and maybe get a win.   
 Q.  How much added confidence do you get from the fact you've taken a game from them in that building?  
JEAN-GABRIEL PAGEAU: Yeah, it's always good.  We know they have a loud building.  They're a confident team, too, in their building.   
But obviously it's good for our team that we were able to get a win.  We're going there with our heads up.  We know what we have to do to get the win.  We'll try to do it.   
 Q.  Is there something you have to do differently defending Crosby versus a normal guy?  
JEAN-GABRIEL PAGEAU: No.  I mean, there's good players on every team in the league.  Obviously he's one of them.  I think you just got to compete as hard as you can and try to compete at his level.  Obviously he's a player that competes every shift.  You got to be ready, know when he's on the ice.   
 Q.  Has he turned his game up at all since a little bit of a slow start to the series?  
JEAN-GABRIEL PAGEAU: Yeah, I mean, he's a good player.  He's their captain.  He's been the best player in the league for so many years.  Obviously I'm sure he wasn't satisfied with his effort, maybe with the result that was happening.   
Obviously, like I said, he competes every night.  He wants to be better.  I'm not surprised that he stepped up his game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT