SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 12, 2009
Vincent Brown
Jerry Milling
Nick Sanford
Brandon Sullivan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. Jerry, what did coach say to you guys after your first win? 
 JERRY MILLING: It's good to get the first win. A win's a win. He said, you know, we've got a whole lot of work to do, but it's good to get the first win. 

 Q. Can you talk about the goal line stand right before the end of the first half? 
 JERRY MILLING: It was a good goal line stand. I mean, all goal line stands are good, but it was fun. That was the high point of the game for the defense. 
 We played tough down there, and we're going to improve off that. 

 Q. Brandon, how did it go out there? 
 BRANDON SULLIVAN: Of course it's fun to be out there with the ball, but at the same time, the offense has to progress and work hard and come out tomorrow and ready to improve. 

 Q. How do you assess the defense going into tonight? 
 STUDENT-ATHLETE: I mean, the stats are all good, but we've got to continue to get better and improve. We played good. But as a team, that's the goal to just improve. 

 Q. How does it come together for you tonight as a team? You got to feel pretty good about how things came together. 
 STUDENT-ATHLETE: I mean, we've been doing this since January, and I think this was the big moment. That's the goal, just to be the team. Play like a team. 

 Q. Brandon, does a game like tonight take any pressure off the running game? Do you guys feel like you answered any questions tonight the way you ran the ball? 
 BRANDON SULLIVAN: Coach Borges preaches us running the ball every week. We ran the ball tonight fairly successfully. We are going to come out in practice tomorrow and work on on our running game. Try to perfect some more things and take the running game to the next level. 

 Q. (No microphone)?
 BRANDON SULLIVAN: I was just following the front five. Whatever holes they created, I just try to fit in there and get whatever I can get. 

 Q. (No microphone)?
 BRANDON SULLIVAN: Well, naturally, a victory is going to give us more confidence, but we still have to work hard. We have to come out tomorrow and prepare mentally, physically. And even though it's a good victory, we have to put this victory behind us and focus on next week now. 

 Q. For yourself, the rotation of the running backs, you get 24 today. How are you going to be able to tow the rock? 
 BRANDON SULLIVAN: It's not just on myself. It's the running back group as a corp. We have to run the ball successfully and we have to run the ball hard, and continue to fight hard for 60 complete minutes, the whole game.
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks, guys. From left to right, San Diego State Student-Athletes, Vincent Brown and Nick Sandford. 

 Q. Nick, what was your assessment of the defense tonight? You had had some big plays with the three interceptions and the goal line stand and a couple of sacks. Does the defense feel good about its performance overall? 
 NICK SANDFORD: No, we don't. There are big plays that obviously give you great confidence going into next week. But when it comes down to it, we need to play more physical, not let them march the ball down the field, and we did that way too often tonight. 

 Q. That said, you've still got to be happy?
 NICK SANDFORD: Yeah, a win is a win. No matter how dirty it is. But you'd like to make it a little bit cleaner and perform better. 

 Q. Vincent, what did you see out there? 
 VINCENT BROWN: We were just running whatever coach called. He saw some things on the defense. Some plays we could execute pretty good on, and that's what we ran.

 Q. (No microphone)?
 VINCENT BROWN: It was just execute. See what the defense gave us, and that's what we went with. 

 Q. Did you feel like your timing was better this week with Ryan as opposed to last week? 
 VINCENT BROWN: Yeah, I definitely think it was. We've still got a lot of room to grow and lot of room to improve, and each week it's picking up. And we'll get it as the season goes on. 

 Q. It seems like some of those crossing rounds were really working for you guys. Getting that moving parallel to the line of scrimmage and really getting some separation from there?
 VINCENT BROWN: Yeah, definitely. I guess when we ran those type of plays, they played like a man-to-man coverage, because the play design was to get that open. And when it went across the field it was just wide open, so it worked. 

 Q. They were up on you guys on the line of scrimmage tonight a lot. Did you guys feel like there was a chance to get over top of them if you could just beat that initial bump? 
 VINCENT BROWN: Yeah, definitely. We've been watching film on that all week. We saw that's what they did. They pressed a whole lot. So we were expecting that. We knew if we could get off the line, we could definitely beat them.

 Q. How close was tonight to the way you guys want to play on offense? 
 VINCENT BROWN: Not at all good enough. I definitely think we have a lot of room to improve, lot of room to grow. As the season goes on, we'll keep working and definitely get there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT