WNBA FINALS: SPARKS VS LYNX
October 1, 2017
Brian Agler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Lynx - 80, Sparks - 69
BRIAN AGLER: I want to congratulate Minnesota.  I thought they played extremely well, played to their strengths, played determined.
We'll have to regroup and get ready for Game 5.
Q. Out-rebounding disparity, 48-28, obviously pretty dominant there.  What exactly were they doing where you guys weren't able to get on the glass like you normally do?
BRIAN AGLER: Yeah, to compete with Minnesota you have to stay in the game with them with the rebounding, and obviously that was a wide margin tonight.  But they were the most aggressive team.  There wasn't any question.  They doubled their free throw attempts, and I'm not saying that to debate the officiating.  That's not the point.  The point is that they were a lot more aggressive, got themselves to the free-throw line, gave themselves opportunities, gave themselves second-chance points off offensive boards.  We just didn't play the way we need to play to have success against them, and they did the things they needed to do to have success against us.
Q. In terms of the offensive flow, it looked like you guys were having trouble getting into sync.  Was that what they were doing, or do you feel like you guys didn't have the sharp he's offensive night?
BRIAN AGLER: No, I give credit to Minnesota.  You know, obviously I don't think we had some individuals play great games, and there's some things obviously we can do better, but I think they had a lot to do with that.  They played a great defensive game.  They made it very difficult for us.  Our offense didn't flow as well as we would have liked.  Didn't make great decisions.
So again, you know, we will travel up there tomorrow, regroup, and start planning for Wednesday.
Q. Your team seemed to struggle with their touch tonight, especially from behind the arc.  What do you think about their shot selection?
BRIAN AGLER: I thought our shot selection in the first half was not very good.  I thought we panicked offensively when we were sort of falling behind.
Second half, you know, we had to be more aggressive, so the decision-making there was a little bit different.  But I thought in the balance of the game in the first half, I thought our shot selection could have been much better.  I thought we settled for a lot of early mid-range jump shots.
Q. You got two three-pointers from Odyssey Sims to start that fourth quarter, went on a 10-2 run.  Could have been a turning point.  What do you think prevented you from turning the tide at that moment?
BRIAN AGLER: Couldn't get stops.  They got a couple key offensive rebounds, second-chance points.  I think we had it down to eight maybe at one time.  But when you put yourself in a hole like that, I mean, there's just zero room for error, so you can sit here and debate, okay, what could you have done, you but the biggest thing what we'd like to do is not put ourselves in that position.
Q. What were you able to do defensively in Game 3 to make things difficult for their offense that you couldn't do tonight?
BRIAN AGLER: Rebounded better.  We rebounded better.  I think we out-rebounded by one on our last game, Game 3.  To me, that was a huge difference.  I thought defensively once we got into the possession, we did some good things.  I thought they were really thorough on what they wanted to do, and when you give somebody a lot of second opportunities, they're going to score on you.
Q. It seems like these matchups between you and them have played out pretty much every different way you can sort of project them.  What are you expecting from Wednesday's game and what do you think we should expect from it?
BRIAN AGLER: I think it'll be hard-fought.  I can't predict the outcome.  I know there's a lot of things for us to have success against them they have to do and there's a lot of things against us they have to do to have success.  We've got to focus on ourselves and try to do some things a little bit different, a little bit better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT