GINN TRIBUTE HOSTED BY ANNIKA
May 30, 2007
Pam Morris
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Sitting to my right is Dr. Pam Morris with the Medical University of South Carolina.  She's a cardiologist.  She's going to talk about a special thing that we are doing on Friday, called Go Red Day here at the Ginn Tribute Hosted by Annika.  To kind of give you the Readers Digest version of the Go Red Day, LPGA players, caddies, officials, volunteers, spectators, even the media are encouraged to wear a piece of red. 
 Let's talk about this, Doctor.  What is Go Red Day about it and what do you hope to accomplish with it? 
 DR. PAM MORRIS:  The Medical University of South Carolina has teamed up with the American Heart Association on the Go Red For Women campaign.  As you all know, previously the red dress, the color red, has really been the forbidden color for women, or at least respectable women.  But the American Heart Association adopted the red dress as their symbol to raise awareness of the risks of heart disease in women. 
 Heart disease is the number one killer of women in our nation, which many people don't understand even at this point.  Many of us fear other forms of disease.  The American Cancer Society has done a great job of raising awareness of breast cancer.  However, 10 times as many women will die of cardiovascular disease compared to breast cancer.  So it's a very important cause. 
 The red dress and the color red is meant to raise awareness of the risks of heart disease, to encourage women to be screened for their risk factors for cardiovascular disease, to recognize the symptoms of heart attack and recognize the symptoms of stroke, and then to remind women to lead a heart-healthy lifestyle. 
 Much like many progressive diseases, the things that women must do - and men I might add - in order to prevent heart attack or stroke, are things that must be done decades before the disease strikes.  So if you want to make heart-healthy choices, women and men need to make those choices while they're in their 20s, 30s, 40s in order to prevent the disease later in life. 
 What we're asking, this is a wonderful forum to reach the hearts of the women all across our nation and all around the world in order to increase their awareness and hopefully save some lives.  That's the purpose of Go Red Day on Friday.  I really encourage you, I cannot tell you how successful this campaign has been all around our nation in raising women's awareness.  Anything that you can wear that is red on that day, it will support the hearts of the women that you love everywhere. 
 I'd be happy to take questions. 

 Q.  This is the same campaign that Oprah is involved in, right? 
 DR. PAM MORRIS:  I believe.  Movie stars, television stars, you see at the New York fashion show they now have a red dress fashion show.  The American Heart Association has all of the first ladies have red dresses that travel around the nation.  There are many organizations. 
 We have happened to partnered with the American Heart Association, but the NIH, the National Heart, Blood and Lung Institute also have a red campaign called the Heart Truth.  This is a unified campaign that is all around the nation and, in fact, now expanding all around the world. 

 Q.  Has the presence of MacKenzie Klein here this week helped your cause in any way, shape or form? 
 DR. PAM MORRIS:  Absolutely.  This was exciting.  She came back at the American Heart Association's heart ball back in February or January.  She's a wonderfully inspiring story.  She actually had congenital heart disease, which is, in fact, not preventable.  Anything we can do to raise awareness of the risks of any form of heart attack or stroke or congenital heart disease is a huge boost to the cause. 
 Please wear red on Friday.  I know all of you have women you love.  Whatever you can do to support this great cause, we'd really appreciate it. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you for taking the time to talk to us, Doctor. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT