ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
November 14, 2018
Chamari Atapattu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Sri Lanka - 97/7, Bangladesh - 72
Q. Good evening, Captain, and congratulations on your victory.
CHAMARI ATHAPATHTHU: Thank you.
Q. Now, this victory is meaningful because it's a setup for a quarterfinals game against the West Indies in a sense.  It must be very, very important having this victory tonight.
CHAMARI ATHAPATHTHU: Definitely.  Actually we won only this match, but we have another match, next match against the West Indies.  That is a very important match.  But we don't have pressure.  Just we play our normal game and positive cricket.  This is one game for us.  At the end of the day, we're not losing the last ball.  That's the thing.  But we plan to play our positive cricket and play our normal game.  We trust ourselves.  We trust our production.  That's our target, and that's our goal.
Q. Were you a little concerned about the score you put on the board, because you finished fairly strong, you nearly got up towards the 100 mark, but the early batting you were soaking up too many dot balls?
CHAMARI ATHAPATHTHU: Yeah, definitely.  Actually our plan is 120, 125, but unfortunately we can't score 125.  We are behind in runs.  I think Bangladesh bowlers bowled really good.  We all know they have a good bowling attack, good spinners, and the condition is not good for the batters.  We all know the condition is now for the spinners especially, bowlers.  So we tried 120, but unfortunately we can't score 120.  So then we lost a couple wickets early, so we reset our goal for 100, 110, but we stopped at 97 runs.
Then we decided 100 is good score.  We tried to play our -- trust our bowlers.  We had good bowling attack.  So finally we won.
Q. Against the West Indies, your top order might have a much more aggressive approach, including yourself, who maybe should consider coming at No. 3?
CHAMARI ATHAPATHTHU: Yeah, you know, we planned to score 100 and 125.  I think I didn't score much in the first two matches, so that's why I'm going down, and main thing is Shashikala is an experienced player, and me, I have played more cricket, so we tried to build partnership in middle of us.  That's why I'm going No. 3 and No. 4.
We talked about the selectors and the coaches, they decided that run, so we agreed, and gives a chance for the younger players to play normal game as an opener.
So I think we tried, but it doesn't work good.  But I think next match maybe I can come as opener.
Q. When you didn't meet your target of 100 or 120 plus and you fell for 97, how confident were you at the start of the innings that you could, in fact, bowl Bangladesh out for less than that?
CHAMARI ATHAPATHTHU: I told you that 120 is a good score in this wicket, but we tried to score 120, but you know, the condition is not good for the batters.  We tried hard but not easy to hit hard in the ground, and we can't hit over the rope and the ground is a little bit soggy, so some boundaries is not going to the boundary.  So 120 is not an easy score, but we tried our best.
But we think 100, 110 is good, but we scored 97.  But our bowlers have done a good job.  We trust our bowlers.  We have a good bowling attack, experienced bowling attack, so we think we can defend 100.
Q. And you yourself led from the front in the bowling with taking three wickets.  How pleasing is that for you?
CHAMARI ATHAPATHTHU: Sorry?
Q. How pleasing was it for you personally to capture three wickets?
CHAMARI ATHAPATHTHU: Actually, Udeshika was really good.  She got two, three wickets early, and the pressure is going to Bangladesh.  So that's why we can defend 100 score.  So special thanks going to Udeshika, she's the No. 1 bowler.  She's bowling really good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT