ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
November 10, 2018
Chamari Atapattu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How frustrating is it to see playing Guyana teams winning, losing, and your own side cannot get any cricket here?  What's the spirit of the side like this afternoon?  
CHAMARI ATAPATTU: Actually unfortunately we didn't play today because of the bad weather.  Actually as a team, the both teams want to play the match.  That's the main thing, but we didn't play.  Actually I saw the Guyana condition is really good, but in here it's not good, the weather.  Hopefully we have a match next Monday.  Let's see, I hope we can play next Monday's match.   
 Q.  If the weather doesn't break, what does the coach and the team do to keep the girls active?  How would you keep training?  Would you go to the beach, play in concrete, what?  
CHAMARI ATAPATTU: Actually our preparation is really good.  The last couple of months we trained hard in Sri Lanka, but unfortunately the bad thing is we've come to here, we can't play good cricket, and our practice -- practice is not good because of the weather.  We didn't have nets or indoor nets, so we didn't train much, but more in here, but our preparation is really good before the workup, so we trust our potential and our talent.  Let's see next week, play a couple of matches.  We'll try to play our best cricket in this World Cup.   
 Q.  Chamari, with so much rain forecast over the next week, it could be almost pot luck here.  Is that kind of exciting knowing it might be enough to win a game or two and get through to the semifinals?  
CHAMARI ATAPATTU: Actually we have three matches next week.  Hopefully we can win one or two matches, and we can go to the semifinals.  But our main target is match play, match play, win the matches.  Just focus for the next match, that's it.  If we won, we can go through to the semifinals.   
 Q.  You mentioned the possibility of getting a game or two in, going through.  You watched last night the West Indies and Bangladesh; what did you make of that game, and what are some things that you will look to put into play if you come up against both of those teams?  
CHAMARI ATAPATTU: I think before I came to here, I think this wicket and conditions were poor batting, especially T20s.  But I feel last night, the second and third match, the wicket is good for the spin, so we have good spin attack.  Hopefully our spinners doing well, and we can win one or two matches in the tournament.   
 Q.  And the West Indies looked very sharp.  You have your eyes on them I assume?  
CHAMARI ATAPATTU: Yeah, definitely.  West Indies is a defending championship, playing good cricket.  Last night they bounced back because they lost a couple of wickets early, but Stafanie is playing really good, and they scored 115, something like that.  Actually they are fighting good, so I know they are a really good team.  It's not an easy team, so we'll try our best and trust ourselves and play positive, and let's see what we can do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT