AIG WOMEN'S OPEN
August 21, 2020
Olivia Mehaffey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. It's been brutal for all the players this week, one of only two amateurs in the field.  You have some experience at Royal Troon winning the Scottish Amateur here a few weeks ago.  Tell me about your experience this week?
OLIVIA MEHAFFEY:   Yeah, it's amazing.  Any time you get to tee it up with the pros it's a great experience, and playing with play with Dame Laura and Alena Sharp, both very experienced professionals.  So it's been amazing.  I've really enjoyed this week.  Although my golf has not been as good as what I would have liked, the experience is valuable.
Q. What is the biggest thing you've learnt from playing with Dame Laura?
OLIVIA MEHAFFEY:   I think how she controls it and flights it so well.  It's amazing.  Like I'm aiming 15 yards right waiting for the wind and she's going straight at it and flighting it down.  Probably the control of her ball flight.
Q. What have you found the most difficult with the winds conditions?  Is it the switch when you played it last time?
OLIVIA MEHAFFEY:   It's quite hard mentally as well because you have the first few holes into the wind and you switch holes, you've been flying every at the pin and then you have to go to allow it to roll out a little bit.  That change is quite different and it's so tough.  It's such a grind mentally with you go.
Q. Your plan now, you were supposed to be turning pro this summer and that's been delayed a year, I understand.  Just talk us through the thought process in terms of when we'll see you in the pro ranks?
OLIVIA MEHAFFEY:   I wanted to go to Q-School in August and now that's canceled.  I'll go back to Arizona State for another year ask and hopefully August go to Q-School.
Q. Summing up this week at Royal Troon, the experience of what it's given you to push on and move forward?
OLIVIA MEHAFFEY:   I have quite a few things this my game I can go with and work on.  I felt quite comfortable out here this week and that's a big thing for me.  Just parts of my game that I needed to work on and it's been a really great experience.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT