AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
March 30, 2021
Olivia Mehaffey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. What did you learn from your last time here?
 OLIVIA MEHAFFEY:   Yeah, definitely.  I think I made some silly mistakes.  Didn't play very smart.  Was a little bit aggressive at the wrong time.  I think it was a good learning experience.  I mean, these courses, they both have a lot to them.  So I think the experience of playing before is very nice.
 Q. Talk about three more players from Ireland here this week --
 OLIVIA MEHAFFEY:   Yeah, I heard it a couple weeks ago and somebody told me and I was like, oh my gosh, what are we doing? We are so well represented in Ireland, that would be amazing.  Maybe after that, Rory could win, it would be quite nice.
 Q. Have you had a chance to talk to anyone about the course?
 OLIVIA MEHAFFEY:   Before last time, I talked to Tim Mickelson.  He sat down with us and went through the course, which was brilliant and got some really good notes from him.  Mainly from him.
 Q. How would you compare coming into the event this time compared to last time?
 OLIVIA MEHAFFEY:   It was probably the most nervous I've ever been for coming in. I knew I was a couple ahead of cut line because you're so nervous and it's something you really want and you have so many people at home supporting you.  Being in that situation and having that experience and learning both the courses and having that, that helps you.
 It was nice playing today kind of knowing where you're going and you can focus more on other things rather than learning the course which is really nice.
 Q. Playing here before is a slight advantage, but the nerves, is it easier playing a second time?
 OLIVIA MEHAFFEY:   Yeah, definitely, you have that experience and you know what it feels like coming down the stretch and knowing that you're close either way.  So definitely having that experience is great, and just like knowing how the week works.  There's a lot of formalities and kind of a big thing for me coming into this week, I played three events straight before, but resting.  I was quite careful with my time last week at our home tournament and made sure I was getting a lot of sleep because I know this week is demanding and it's long days, and the evenings are long, as well.
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT