U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2018
Olivia Mehaffey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You had a really solid front nine.  Just talk about that first.  
OLIVIA MEHAFFEY: Yeah, I was off to a little bit of a slow start.  I had to work pretty hard for pars and wasn't hitting it my best.  Back side just kind of caught fire a little bit.  Had a nice birdie from the fairway bunker and then gave myself chances, made three birdies in a row coming in, two good chances in the last two.  It was nice I started hitting it a little bit better on the back side.   
 Q.  Did you finish with a par on --  
OLIVIA MEHAFFEY: Yeah, I parred the last two.   
 Q.  Is this your first Women's Am?  
OLIVIA MEHAFFEY: Yeah, this is my first Women's Am, yeah.   
 Q.  First of all, making it to match play, how proud are you of that?  
OLIVIA MEHAFFEY: Yeah, actually when you play something like this, it doesn't really matter what you shoot, you just have to get into match play and then it starts over.  It's nice to post two low rounds, but the tournament starts again tomorrow, and I'm definitely excited to play some match play.   
 Q.  Obviously conditions are hot and humid.  What is the key to kind of going through the week?  
OLIVIA MEHAFFEY: Yeah, I mean, you really have to be careful with your energy and really remember that this is a long week already, two practice rounds, two tournament rounds, and it's been really good.  I have my college assistant coach, Michelle, on the bag, so she's been hammering the water into me and making sure I'm eating and staying in the shade when I can, so I think just really managing your energy levels.   
 Q.  After two rounds of stroke play heading into the round of 64 tomorrow, how do you feel about your game?  
OLIVIA MEHAFFEY: Yeah, good.  I feel like my swing is in a really good place.  I'm hitting it good.  I feel in control out there.  I'm really happy with how I'm playing this week.  I'm loving Tennessee and this golf course, and I'm staying with a really great host family.  I'm just really happy.  I'm really enjoying it.   
 Q.  Obviously you have a lot of match play experience in your career, but even this summer, Curtis Cup and Palmer Cup, how much is that going to help you going into the rest of the week?  
OLIVIA MEHAFFEY: Yeah, I mean, in Ireland we grew up playing so much match play, so it's always fun to play match play.  Now I'm in college, and we play a little less.  Tournaments like this are really special, and I really enjoy that format, and I've got a lot of experience.  I'm really looking forward to it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT