SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 9, 2013
Donald Constable
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Donald, how exciting is this for you?
DONALD CONSTABLE:   It's very exciting, it's fun being out here on Hawai'i, being able to play with these guys.   It's a lot of fun.

Q.   It's a lot of fun, a lot of work.   Is there some anxiety involved there, too?
DONALD CONSTABLE:   Yeah, obviously going from where I was at, I've only played two pro starts since I turned pro in August, so it's kind of a big jump, but it's an exciting one at the same time.

Q.   Some guys work a lifetime and never get out here.   You've had two starts.   How have you been able to move up the ladder so quickly?
DONALD CONSTABLE:   I've worked hard over the years, worked on the game, day in and day out, both with the swing and mentally, trying to figure out how to get around a golf course and stuff, and I feel like over the past year or so, I've really grown in that department.

Q.   This isn't the easiest course to get to know.   There's so many doglegs, so many run outs and so much crosswind.   How do you find the golf course?
DONALD CONSTABLE:   Yeah, I like it.   Like you said, there's a lot of doglegs.   I think there's only two straight holes out there, 9 and 10.   You get a lot of crosswinds with those doglegs and kind of got to play to the wide side of them.   I like that if you're on the short side of the dogleg you're kind of blocked out, but they give you a fair shot at the fairway and the rough.   It's not too bad, just got to keep the ball in the right place and try to keep it out of the wind. 

Q.   With it being just 36 tournaments this year, how important is that to sort of get a fast start?
DONALD CONSTABLE:   No, it's really important obviously with the shortened schedule you've got to play well early, and being in my position where I just made it through Q‑school I need to play well early so I can get in the reshuffle and kind of climb up the ladder a little bit. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT