NHL DRAFT
June 26, 2009
Louis Leblanc
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. When you heard your name and the ovation from the fans, did you believe the feelings that came along with it?   
 LOUIS LEBLANC: It's impressive. I had goosebumps. There's not really any words to describe this feeling. My favorite team growing up and to wear this jersey tonight is unreal. Looking forward to this moment my whole life, and I'm just living it right now.   
  
  Q. Do you feel any pressure right now?  
 LOUIS LEBLANC: A little bit. I mean, I think it's part of the game, but no, not really.   
  
  Q. Do you think going back to Harvard will be a critical step?   
 LOUIS LEBLANC: Yeah, I think so, I need to get bigger and stronger and I think a few years at Harvard won't hurt and when I'm ready, I'm going to leave and try to make this team.   
  
  Q. What will it take?   
 LOUIS LEBLANC: Hard work. I think I've got some pretty good skill up front and just my determination to win.  
  
  Q. Harvard is a guy that typically guys go four years, have you talked to Ted a little bit about a two-year program for you or have you talked about like the long-term future at Harvard?  
 LOUIS LEBLANC: No, for sure, I think we talked about it a little bit. You know I'm going to start off and see how it goes and then if I'm ready after a year or two I'm going to leave and you can always go back and finish your degree.   
  
  Q. It's not exactly a slum school to go to.   
 LOUIS LEBLANC: For sure, it's arguably one of the best universities around. I'm looking forward to the challenge on and off the ice and I'm going to make the best out of it.  
  
  Q. Were you worried at any time you were not selected between 12 and 16, were you getting worried that you would not be selected in the first round?  
 LOUIS LEBLANC: A little bit. I think every player is nervous in these types of events, but I have confidence and I was hoping they would pick me and it happened and so I'm really happy.  
  
  Q. What went through your mind, there's been so much talk the last couple of weeks?   
 LOUIS LEBLANC: It's a dream come true. I still don't believe it happened. When Trevor called my name, it was goosebumps. Hugged my mom and hugged my dad and just an unbelievable feeling right now.   
  
  Q. Inaudible.   
 LOUIS LEBLANC: A little bit. If you're winning, it's great, and if you're losing, it's not all great. But I think you have to learn from it and deal with it.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about what it means to you getting your education?  
 LOUIS LEBLANC: You know I'm going to start off at Harvard and year by year get some courses done, and. If I last two years at Harvard, great, and I can always go back in the summers or when I'm done playing hockey, I can finish my degree.   
  
  Q. Boston, Montréal, do you think about it, like it's the ultimate rivalry and now you're going to play for a Boston team as a Montréal kid drafted by the Canadiens.   
 LOUIS LEBLANC: For sure it's going to be fun. Some guys in Boston are probably going to bug me about it but I'm a Montréal guy and I'm just enjoying it.   
  
  Q. Always a Montréal guy?   
 LOUIS LEBLANC: Always.   
  
  Q. How much of a relief was it to be selected?  
 LOUIS LEBLANC: Well, my goal is to play in the NHL, so if another team would have picked me, you know, and I had a chance to play with them, I would have been as happy but right now they picked they and I feel really relieved and I couldn't ask for a better scenario.  
  
  Q. Are you happy with how Team USA helped your development?  
 LOUIS LEBLANC: I think so. I mean, I don't think it hurt me. It was a good league and Danny Kristo played on my team last year and had a good season, too, and I'm looking forward to it.   
  
  Q. Inaudible.   
 LOUIS LEBLANC: No, not really. I've seen him play at the World Juniors, he's an excellent hockey player and that's about it.   
  
  Q. Are you surprised he fell as far as he fell?  
 LOUIS LEBLANC: I'm very surprised. He's a very good player and he was one of best scorers for Team USA, and you never know what happens in these drafts.  
  
  Q. Inaudible.   
 LOUIS LEBLANC: I think it's a really special moment. I've been waiting for this my whole life. I never thought it was going to happen and I've got goosebumps right now thinking about all this stuff, but yeah, it's fantastic.   
  
  Q. Who are some of the guys you watched growing up idolizing?   
 LOUIS LEBLANC: I was a little young for Guy Lafleur and those guys but you always know the guy with the hair and stuff. The Habs had a lot of All-Stars and I think every Hab player was really good.   
  
  Q. Inaudible.  
 LOUIS LEBLANC: I wasn't thinking too much about the draft this year, I was just focused on my work and my team and I think the hard work paid off and I'm here right now and I'm enjoying the moment.   
  
  Q. What your thoughts on competing for a spot with Danny Kristo?  
 LOUIS LEBLANC: He's probably going to talk to me about that. We are good buddies and we hang out in Omaha, and he's going to give me a call soon. Hopefully we can both play together and he's a great player and I think he's looking forward to this stuff, too.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT