DESERT CLASSIC
January 18, 2019
Joey Garber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Must be pretty happy, Top-5 through 36.  You got off to a flying start today.  Talk about that.
JOEY GARBER: Yeah, hit a poor tee shot on the first hole and caught a good lie and luckily I could draw it around the tree and hit it to about three feet.  Nice way to start and took a little pressure off.  Then from there just really played really well.  One mixup on 10, missed a short putt, but other than that I had chances on pretty much every hole, which is all you ask for out here because the greens are perfect.
Q. Sure.  After a start like that when you're deep early, do you start sort of thinking ahead a little bit or is that something that you've trained yourself not to do or how do you deal with that?
JOEY GARBER: Yeah, luckily I have been fortunate enough to get off to some good starts, so I've had some learning opportunities and I don't do that anymore -- I have before.  But, no, on a golf course like this where it's perfect, you feel like you can make birdie on every hole, so that's what you're trying to do.  There's no thoughts about anything except for the shot at hand.  And, yeah, I'm going to keep focusing on that the next two days.
Q. How similar is that like -- you spent a couple seasons playing the WEB.COM and you have to take it deep out there on courses that are maybe a little similar to this one.  Does that give you sort of a comfort level knowing that it's like that out here?
JOEY GARBER: No doubt.  The WEB.COM TOUR obviously as everyone says is kind of a birdiefest and I've always kind of been that player, streaky and get it going.  But after a full season out there and knowing you got to make birdies on every hole, it's, you take it with you here.  And it's a little bit different here, but on these golf courses you, the greens are so small you kind of take dead aim anyway, so just keep hitting those iron shots in there and try and make some putts.
Q. Finally, good start, solid on the Stadium Course yesterday and you got the Nicklaus Course tomorrow.  What do you anticipate and kind of what's your game plan for that course?
JOEY GARBER: Yeah, just the same things, literally plot my way around and try and get as many balls in the fairway as I can.  That's a big goal of mine.  I'm a good iron player from the fairway, I'm not as good from the rough.  So I'm going to try and keep it in the fairway and then keep shooting at those flagsticks.
Q. How good does it feel to be in the mix through 36 out here?
JOEY GARBER: It feels good.  I know I've got a lot to do, but, yeah, it feels good to get off to a good start and I'm comfortable here, I mean the weather's great, it kind of visually is very pretty and it's just a fun place to be and we're having fun with it and hopefully we can keep it rolling.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT