ATLANTA UNITED MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 15, 2017
Gerardo Martino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








New York Red Bulls - 0, Atlanta United - 0
Q. This may sound odd to your ear, but did this feel like a playoff game to you?
GERARDO MARTINO: It was an intense game.  I think it was a good measuring stick for us.  That's a game that could be a quarterfinal in the playoffs, so we'll see.
Q. Seemed like this is maybe one of your toughest games this season, the way Red Bull was able to work the defense, especially in the second half.
GERARDO MARTINO: You talking about like fatigue and stuff?
Q. Getting gaps and getting shots off -- denied a lot of opportunities in the second half.
GERARDO MARTINO: We can't just remember the two chances that Red Bulls had.  In my opinion, Red Bulls had two good scoring chances and we had -- seven, but seven clear chances.
The last play of the first half, and then the first play of the second half -- Martinez crossed -- that pass by Josef.
We've played the same way getting up to this point, so I don't think we're going to have to change when the playoffs come.
Q. Seems like they were able to bottle him up and contain him outside of one or two moments.  What did you see?  What did they do?
GERARDO MARTINO: As I said, Josef had two or three really clear chances and usually he converts some of those.  It's not necessarily anything the Red Bulls did to defend him, but we just missed some chances today that we usually convert.
Q. Is it a concern that he hasn't scored in three games?
GERARDO MARTINO: No.
Q. Braz Guzan, he had a pretty good game today.  Made a lot of saves.  It's been a tough week for him.  How do you rate his performance today, and also how he felt over the week and how he rose to the challenge today?
GERARDO MARTINO: He performed just like the professional that Brad is.  It wasn't his turn to play with the national team but he returned here and did his job for us.
Q. Do you have an update on Almíron and how soon he'll be back?
GERARDO MARTINO: It's probable that him, as well as Chris McCann, will be back for the next game.
Q. Did you see the other results tonight?
GERARDO MARTINO: Yes.
Q. Going for three against Toronto --
GERARDO MARTINO: But yeah, now we also depend on Chicago.  It's not all in our hands at this point.
We're going to give everything we have in this last game because we still have something to play for.  The Red Bulls, they are locked into the sixth place, so it's possible they rest players, and if that's the case, then we could end up facing the Red Bulls in the first round.  But only someone who can predict the future will be able to tell you, and I can't, so we'll just have to see how it plays out.
Red Bulls can't finish anywhere but sixth at this point so it's logical for their coach to rest players in the final game.  But we would have to play this game on Sunday and then play two days later with all of our guys.
Q. Jesse Marsch said he was upset that your team was kicking his team a lot throughout the game.  He said that you were shouting to your players to kick his players.  Do you have any thoughts on that?
GERARDO MARTINO: No, absolutely nothing.
Q. Injuries to the players, has that been the reason why Guzan has been getting more time as a rookie?
GERARDO MARTINO: For me he's been excellent.  I think he's the best rookie, the best player in his first year in the League.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT