U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 3, 1999
Kathryn Marshall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 KATHRYN MARSHALL: I've also got Lisa Walters' tee times. I think if I had gotten a
second alternative, I would have been out at 3:00 or something. Definitely really good
draw to be out at 7:30. It got really hot by about half past 8:00. I'd not like to be
going, that's for sure. I assume there's no wind out there. There's a little bit of
breeze, actually. But I think it's dying down now. 
 
 KATHRYN MARSHALL: Absolutely. The course was really wet, though, and there was
obviously a little rain overnight; made it a little soft, quite soft in front of the
greens. Maybe this afternoon it's going to warm up a bit more, but I'm happy. 
 
 KATHRYN MARSHALL: Yeah, they were a great pace. Great to play. They were sticking. I
think they probably will firm up a bit, but as I say, good conditions. 
 
Q. Do you think with the conditions this morning that you got as much as you could have
gotten out of the round?
 
 KATHRYN MARSHALL: Yes. Also, I'd like to have broken 70, but I think any time you shoot
2-under in a major tournament, it's a pretty good start; so, I'm happy. 
 
Q. Two Top-10s in your life last three starts; good round today. What do you credit
this turnaround to?
 
 KATHRYN MARSHALL: Well, I think a guy named Ian MacLeod is sitting back in his pro shop
in Monafee (phonetic) Scotland. I went to see him in August last year. He was my original
coach. And I just went back to Dundee and basically just started to work with him again.
And it just feels great to be back to basics, and to be with someone that knows my swing,
literally since I was six years old. 
 
Q. (inaudible.)
 
 KATHRYN MARSHALL: When I got my card that year, that was '92, '93, and then I moved to
Edinburgh; so, it's been a big while. Too long, obviously. 
 
Q. Could you just comment on being a last-minute replacement and being on top?
 
 KATHRYN MARSHALL: There's actually another really good story to that, because being a
first alternate, I didn't get a package or anything. No one told me that I had to sign in
by Tuesday at 10:00. I just happened to come up to the golf course at five minutes to
10:00. They were saying, "We were worried about you." I was like, What are you
worried about. It was definitely divine intervention supporting me this week. I just about
had a heart attack. I don't think I spoke for about 10 minutes after that. 
 
Q. Where were you when you got the word that you were actually going to be in the
tournament? Were you already practicing or where were you?
 
 KATHRYN MARSHALL: I was playing up in Corning, and it was Kay Cockerill that was doing
a live interview with me, and she said, "I've got two pieces of good news for you:
The leader just bogeyed; so you're only two shots behind now, and the other is that Lisa
Walters have just withdrawn from the U.S. Open. Let's talk." 
 
Q. Let's talk about your impressions of this golf course as you've played it. How many
practice rounds did you get in, if any?
 
 KATHRYN MARSHALL: I got one practice round in on Tuesday. 
 
Q. So you had an idea where you were going?
 
 KATHRYN MARSHALL: Yeah. 
 
Q. Did impress you when you played the practice round?
 
 KATHRYN MARSHALL: Oh, yeah, absolutely. Loved it from the minute you drive in the
driveway, it's so impressive and the golf course is, I think, one of the best we've ever
played. 
 
Q. And you're finishing at 2-under; you were impressed with your score. How about the
golf course itself? What did it present for you to be so successful?
 
 KATHRYN MARSHALL: Well, obviously any golf course -- in any major you've got to be
hitting the middle of the fairways and hopefully get some decent length off your tee
shots, and that is one of my strongest points in my driving. So I was pretty confident
that you can get a decent drive out there you can get some good shots. And I got off to a
good start, and that settled me down. 
 
Q. Talk a little bit about the rough. Was it two inches or was it a little higher, or
how did it stand; and then talk about the speed of the greens?
 
 KATHRYN MARSHALL: I don't think I was in the rough today. No, actually I was in the
rough once, and it was -- it was covering the ball, so it was pretty thick. The speed of
the greens for me are perfect. I love them. And obviously I think some other players might
want it a little speedier, because that's the kind of pace I was brought up on. 
 
Q. This might be a far stretch, but you're Scottish; Old Waverly is a Scottish name;
little bit of a Scottish layout in the course. A lot of characteristics. Does this play to
your favor? Do you enjoy that?
 
 KATHRYN MARSHALL: Absolutely. I think everything is just sort of fitting into my game
at the moment, yeah, definitely. You know, the Scottish connection is funny, because,
Toledo, the tournament I won, that was Scottish connections as well. So you never know. 
 
 KATHRYN MARSHALL: Highland Meadows. 
 
 KATHRYN MARSHALL: It's the 8th, whatever that is. Tuesday. 
 
Q. How old?
 
 KATHRYN MARSHALL: 32. 4-under par for the front nine. 
 
 KATHRYN MARSHALL: No. 1, perfect start. Great drive, little 9-iron to about six feet
below the pin. Par birdie. No. 6, good drive. Again 9-iron under the stick. Holed about
25-foot putt. No. 9 is probably the easiest hole on the course. I just hit a really bad
drive and was lucky to catch the bunker. Just lack of concentration, I think, and made a
bogey there. 10, 9-iron to about five feet behind the pin; birdied it. 11 is probably the
hardest hole on the golf course. Hit a great drive and just came up short. I didn't really
hit it that well, and chose to putt it just off the front of the green. Just a natural
Scottish shot for me, and unfortunately, 3-putted it from the front. 13, was the hole I
was in the rough. And again, I had a pretty decent shot, but hits the front edge of the
green. Again chose to putt it, and again 3-putted; so maybe that's not a good choice. 16,
I hit a good drive. Great 5-iron to about 15 feet right at the hole. Holed that for
birdie. 17, the wind was kind of swirling, and I had a 4-iron behind, and luckily changed
it to 5-iron. Hit it really, really well to about six feet left of the hole and holed that
for birdie. And then got a good up-and-down on the last for par. So there's a couple of
three putts in there. I could have chipped. Maybe would have shot a couple of shots lower. 
 
Q. How is the heat, and did you do anything special to prepare for that today? 
 
 KATHRYN MARSHALL: Basically I've been in America for the last 14 years now, but maybe
not that kind of humidity. I didn't really feel it that bad. I had a little sun umbrella
which I use, which was perfect. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT