NCAA WOMEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: STANFORD
March 22, 2019
Jennifer Gross
Morgan Bertsch
Kourtney Eaton
Karley Eaton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JENNIFER GROSS: I remember 15 years ago as an assistant coach, and I remember one of my first recruiting experiences, you know, hundreds of coaches just watching, and I saw Tara VanDerveer sitting in a chair watching a game, and I was going to be watching the same game, and it took me about 15 minutes to get the nerve up to go sit down and talk to her because she's someone that I admired a lot growing up just watching her teams compete at such a high level, and when I got into coaching, obviously she's such an icon.  So to go from that moment to now where we are where she's become a friend, a resource, a mentor for me.  You know, I admire her so much and celebrate all of her success and Stanford's success.   
She's talked a lot in the media just about -- she's been extremely gracious with her comments on Joe and I coming down here and helping them with the Princeton offense, and that's been fun for us, to help their staff, but to also get a chance to develop a relationship with her and their staff.   
You know, everything that we've tried to help them with with the Princeton offense, I mean, she's given so much back to me in terms of just being -- like I said, being a mentor in terms of coaching and just life in general within this profession.   
Yeah, when we found out who we were playing, you know, it was a little -- obviously we're excited and we'll be excited to play anybody, but on one hand, we've been cheering for them all year, and so it's strange now to be in a situation where we're not cheering for them tomorrow.  But on the other hand, we also know each other's programs very well, so it's a strange feeling there, too.   
But we always wish them so much success.  You know, it's been really fun getting to know Tara and her staff better, and you know, it'll be a fun game tomorrow.   
 Q.  It's been about eight years since UC Davis has been to the NCAA Tournament.  You were an associate coach.  You've made steps towards this point since then with the WNIT and the regular season championships.  What does it mean now to be here at this point and what are some of the most important things in your mind that enabled your team to be here right now?  
JENNIFER GROSS: Yeah, you know, it's hard to get here.  It really is.  You know, I thought back a lot to that 2011 team and what they were able to accomplish, and then that very next year was the first year that I took over the program as the head coach.   
Every team that we've had since then has really helped to move our program in a positive direction, and you know, I look at the last couple years' groups of student-athletes in our program who really did an amazing job through our conference and got us that conference championship two years in a row but didn't get to experience this moment, and for this group to be here and to do it the way that we did where we had to come from 17 down in the championship game, to secure that win, it's special.  It really is.   
I know how hard it is to be in this moment, and so really what we've been telling our team all year is just enjoy it.  Enjoy the process.  Enjoy everything about this experience.  And this right now is the icing on the cake.  You know, this group has played for each other all year long.  They're an incredibly special group of people.   
I've said it a number of times, but they're probably the most improved team that we've had, and that's because they committed every single day to getting better, and they did that for each other.  We really haven't had to have any talks this year about players coming in my office saying, well, what can I -- I want to play more, or I want this role or I want that role.  Everybody just bought in to whatever they could do to help this team succeed, and that's unique.  That's really unique.   
They play for each other.  They fight for each other.  They enjoy each other.  They have fun together.  And that's what it's about.  You know, and I'm just -- it's been one of the most rewarding, most fun experiences for our coaching staff because of the people that we get to be around every single day.  I admire this group of student-athletes so much.  It's been a fun ride, and we're just going to enjoy every moment that we have to compete together.   
 Q.  Were you able to go to a Giants game the night Tara treated you in San Francisco?  Did you make it to a game?  
JENNIFER GROSS: We did.  Yeah, we did.   
 Q.  And also, looking back at that November game, I know that's a long time ago, your shooting wasn't what it usually is.  What's sort of the key tomorrow to get Stanford off its game and knock down some shots to keep them honest?  
JENNIFER GROSS: Yeah, well, looking back at November, I mean, we definitely were a different team then, and I know they were, as well.  We had -- we took some lumps early just kind of trying to build our chemistry and figure out what was going to work for us.  You know, when I watch that film, I feel like, gosh, we were just so inexperienced, and we hadn't developed a confidence in ourselves as individuals but also in our team.  And I think that's the biggest thing right now is kind of riding this win streak is we believe in ourselves.  We believe in ourselves, and we respect the heck out of Stanford, believe me.  We know that they're really big and athletic inside.  We know that they score it from every single position.  You know, their offense has gotten better and better throughout the year, really impressive where they've taken this offense.  And their defense is tremendous, too.   
You know, for us it's just going to be -- we have to play to our strengths.  You know, and our strengths really are -- we've got to get the ball moving.  We've got to get inside touches.  We've got to get outside touches.  We've got to get the ball -- we've got to attack and kick and share the ball because that's kind of -- that's who we are.  We're a selfless group that makes the extra pass, and we feel good when we do that.  And so obviously we're going to have to knock down some shots.  We're going to have to get some production inside, as well, and we're just going to have to have kids step up.   
The nice thing about -- for me is that that's what our players have been doing all year.  It's different people every game.  One night it's Karley Eaton, she's going 5 for 5 from three, another night it's Kourtney Eaton, another night it's Nina Bessolo, and through that Morgan has been our consistent presence inside and out, as well.  So it's going to take a complete team effort tomorrow.  Everybody is going to have to be the best version of themselves, and I'm excited to see my team in that moment.  I think we're excited and we're ready, and we're just going to go out there and give it everything that we've got.   
 Q.  You talked about the 16-game win streak.  Over that streak, not many of them were close until that last game.  You trailed by 17 and came back to win it, and that secured your spot here.  What did that mean for the team, and did you talk to them at all about that deficit and overcoming them and maybe peaking right now as you're entering the tournament?  
JENNIFER GROSS: Yeah.  I mean, that was incredible.  It was incredible.  I've gotten a lot of questions from parents and media about what did you say at halftime during that game.  And it's funny because it was -- while the coaching staff was outside the locker room trying to figure out some adjustments, we heard Karley Eaton and our other seniors inside the locker room talking to the team about, we can do this, we've got to stay together, everybody has to be all in, a hundred percent, we've got this.  You know, and it was just the perfect message with the perfect tone, and right then we kind of looked at each other and we said, okay, we can do this.  It's just going to take a few stops in a row, a few scores in a row, which is what we talk about with our team a lot is we've got to get stop-score-stops.  If we can string together a number of those, we're going to put ourselves back in this game.  So it wasn't so much about making huge adjustments, it was just about being more focused, more deliberate, more intentional with everything that we were doing, and really believing in each other.   
And I think to have that kind of a moment after we really hadn't been challenged too much for the past couple months, you know, that was maybe one concern we had going into the tournament was like in a close game are we going to be ready for that.  But the belief that this team has in each other, the belief this coaching staff has in our players, it showed through, and I think it was a real display of togetherness and pride, and it was an incredible effort, and I think that gave us a lot of confidence that, you know what, we can be in different situations and still come out on top as long as we believe in each other.   
 Q.  What's the week been like starting with the weird selection show on Monday?  And then your players having to take finals throughout this week?  And just being able to enjoy this moment while also preparing for a game on Saturday but still being able to enjoy the spot that you're in.  
JENNIFER GROSS: Yeah.  It's been a bit of a whirlwind.  Our players got off the bus, had an awesome group of fans waiting to celebrate with us in Davis.  Davis is such an incredible community, and everybody has really been behind this team, which has been so fun.  But a lot of the players got off the bus on Sunday and immediately went home and started studying.  You know, I wish that they had a little more time to just enjoy it and celebrate it, but that's the life of a student-athlete, and they want to be successful in every single thing that they do.   
We took Monday off, and the players were studying and taking finals, and obviously we were planning on watching the show, and then once we found out who we were playing, obviously we got to work and we practiced in between finals -- they had to rearrange their schedules and take some finals early and take some finals on the road.  Once we got down here, it was kind of, okay, first group of players has finals, second group has finals the next morning.   
It's been a balancing act to say the least, more for our players.  For our staff we've just been trying to keep them feeling good and feeling light, and that's always a struggle sometimes during finals week because it's so emotionally and mentally demanding.   
So on our end, for the basketball side of things, we were really just trying to keep the practices short and very focused on one or two things and make sure that we're feeling good.  You know, the reason that -- I actually spoke with Tara leading up to the Big West tournament.  After they had won it, she and I chatted, I just kind of picked her brain a little bit about how they would prepare for the tournament and things that they do with their team.   
And you know, the message that she kind of said was just, feel good, feel confident.  That's the most important thing.  And so I think heading into this week, that's why we've been so successful is because our team -- we've been in a place where we really are confident and loose and having fun and enjoying every single moment, whether that's a single game on the road or at home or a game in the Big West tournament or here now a game in the NCAA Tournament.   
We're determined to enjoy every minute of this, and just to step on the floor feeling as great as we can.  A balancing act, but I think that the players are doing a great job of staying very focused on their finals but also being in the moment and getting themselves prepared for the court, as well.   
 Q.  I asked your coach this about the last time UC Davis was in the tournament eight years ago and the things that were important leading up to this moment.  Especially for you guys, I'm asking the same question.  What are those key things, not necessarily on the court things but kind of team culture things that helped you get to this point?  
MORGAN BERTSCH: I think that this entire year has been focused on really just enjoying the process of getting here.  You know, every day has been a focus of getting better, really improving on both ends of the floor, and being able to execute that when we come out on to the floor.   
I think that just this entire year has been about the process, and now that we're coming into this tournament, into this game, it's really just getting to enjoy this moment that we've been working so hard for for the past year, and just to really come out here and play as hard as we can to showcase the amount of effort that we've put in throughout the entire year.   
We're just here really ready to enjoy this experience, enjoy the time that we have left with each other because I know that I've had a ton of fun the past five years here, and so I've been waiting to get to this NCAA Tournament.  So it's really just the icing on top of the cake at this point.   
 Q.  Karley or Kourtney or both, you guys had a really nice moment after you guys won the Big West championship.  There was a big shot on the Jumbotron of you guys hugging each other and having tears in your eyes.  Can you explain what that moment was like and if you guys have been able to kind of reflect back?  I know you've got a game coming up tomorrow, but throughout the course of the week have you just talked at all about kind of what this journey has been like since you guys were little kids playing together and to kind of culminate with this moment in your senior season?  
KOURTNEY EATON: I feel like we're always like constantly talking about just how amazing the season has been and constantly reflecting on all the amazing opportunities we've gotten through basketball and the last four years at Davis especially, and that moment of just hugging, I hugged all my teammates with tears in my eyes, and it was just a dream come true, so that's kind of what it was like for me.  We've worked so hard for that moment, so just been enjoying it since then.   
KARLEY EATON: Yeah, definitely.  I think the tears come from like -- you realize all your hard work is worth it at that point.  That's something I've dreamed about forever.  I've been watching March Madness forever, and it's just amazing to be here, and we're enjoying every moment.  It was just kind of -- like that hug was just like, it was all worth it.  It was really cool.   
 Q.  Morgan, you said that you've waited five years for this moment.  Now it's here.  You have a long list of accolades.  Could you just talk a little bit about that process personally for you and what it means to be here?  
MORGAN BERTSCH: Yeah, I mean, like I said, we've come up a little short the past couple years, and that was definitely really heartbreaking to have to experience that.  Obviously we ended up going really far in the WNIT and that was also a really amazing experience, but to finally get that win in the championship was something that I have been dreaming about for these past four years of just that final moment, having that buzzer go off and what that would feel like.  You can never really dream it up.  It was better than I had ever imagined.   
It was one of the things that was still left on my checklist.  Having accomplished all of these things, both as a team and personally, that was honestly the one that was still at the top of the list.  And to be able to finally check that off was just -- it felt really amazing.  It's something that you can't really -- I can't really put into words, but it really was the last thing that I had left at that list.  I'm really just enjoying this process and really just looking forward to the game tomorrow to finally get to play in an NCAA game alongside some of my favorite people who I just love so much.  It's going to be so much fun to just finally get to experience that.  Hopefully our ride keeps going a little longer.   
 Q.  You guys have won 16 straight games, and we asked Coach Gross about this, as well.  You trailed by 17 in that final game and in previous games maybe weren't as close.  What did you take from that comeback, and she had mentioned that it wasn't anything she said at halftime, it was more what you guys said and did.  Through that moment, what was that conversation, and how do you think it's prepared you for this first round?  
KARLEY EATON: I think that shows how much belief we have in each other for sure.  We sat there in that locker room and no one was hanging their heads.  It was pretty amazing, like we had a lot of adjustments to make for sure, but no one thought we were going to lose that game, and it was really cool to see.  It was a testament to our team, the culture we've built this whole year is the reason we're winning so much.  I think in whatever sport you look at, you see the top teams have the greatest chemistry, and I think that is something our team -- is a strength of our team for sure.   
 Q.  Kourtney, you were able to pass Coach Gross in assists this year.  Was that kind of a moment that you guys shared anything, or was it just on to the next one?  
KOURTNEY EATON: I mean, we actually ended up losing that game where I did pass her, but when she found out, we had a nice hug, and all of my coaches really congratulated me, and it was a cool moment.  It's fun to just talk to her about it still and like bring it up every once in a while.  But yeah, we had a good moment.   
 Q.  You're going to be facing another team with twins.  Does that throw you off when you face teams with twins, as well?  Or is it just fun?  
KOURTNEY EATON: I think it's a lot of fun.  I think it's cool to see when other sisters like twins go to school together and play because I can't imagine not being here with car, so it's really fun to see that other twins did the same thing we did and wanted to play together at this level.  So it's fun, it's always something we look forward to, and yeah, hopefully they're having as good of a time as we are.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
KOURTNEY EATON: I mean, we never did -- we never played against the McGee twins together, but they're from Washington, as well, so in high school we really wished we would have played.  But no, I don't really --   
KARLEY EATON: No either.  Not really.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
KOURTNEY EATON: Oh, there you go.   
KARLEY EATON: They didn't play in college, yeah, that's true.  I don't even know who that is, honestly.   
 Q.  Morgan, obviously in the Big West, we have Channon Fluker, who's a really good post player.  Now you're going up against Alanna Smith on Saturday.  How much do you enjoy going up against some of the other incredible post players in the country, and how much does that kind of add to the match-up for you that you have a chance to kind of go up against the best of the best in women's college basketball?  
MORGAN BERTSCH: I mean, I think it's a great opportunity just to get to compete against some really -- some of the top -- like you said, some of the top post players in the nation.  It's kind of a challenge for me.  I get to see it as a way of how good I am at trying to defend some of the top people.  I definitely take it as a challenge, and it's going to be a lot of fun tomorrow to get to see that match-up a little bit.   
But yeah, I'm just -- it's always fun to play in those competitive atmospheres because people take notice, and yeah, I don't know, I think it's going to be a lot of fun just to get to see that match-up a little bit.   
 Q.  Kourtney and Karley, talk about kind of the culture of the program has really improved -- not necessarily, it wasn't bad at one point, but you guys have taken it to a new level since you've been here and it started with last year's senior class.  Can you elaborate more about how you have kind of taken on the responsibility this season as the seniors to continue that culture and passing it down to some of the underclassmen that you guys are teammates with and just how that's kind of shaped the way you guys have played at UC Davis and how that's helped you get to this accomplishment?  
KARLEY EATON: I think it starts with work ethic for sure, just being the leader and coming to practice every day, just ready to go.  And I think like younger girls follow up with that, and I think that's something that last year's seniors did really well.  So I think we all learned from that.  But also it's making like everyone feel like they have a role for sure.  So I think everyone enjoys it more when they feel important and stuff, and I think that's a big thing that everyone on this team like knows their role, and we all just have fun together.  So it's been really cool to make so many great -- we all three of us lived together this year, and I think we've gotten so much closer, which is really cool, but I've also gotten closer with everyone on the team, so I think that's a really big part of it is just making sure everyone feels like they're important and they have a role.   
KOURTNEY EATON: Yeah, I think we work on like team building from summer until now, we have team building, and just chemistry is something that's always so important to us, and I really think it's such a big factor with successful teams.  We spend so much time together, so it really helps when you really like each other, too.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT