PLAYSTATION FIESTA BOWL: PENN STATE VS WASHINGTON
December 28, 2017
Jason Cabinda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JASON CABINDA: The locker room is going to be different when these guys leave, but we have a lot of young guys who are ready to fill those shoes, have been working hard, waiting for their numbers to be called.  I'm really excited for a bunch of those guys, guys like Tariq, Lamont Wade and those guys.  I'm excited.   
 Q.  After the game, what's in the future for Jason Cabinda?  
JASON CABINDA: After the game, obviously going to go ahead and prepare for the draft.  That would be the number one thing, see how things go from there.  Then after football's done, might end up seeing me doing something similar to your job.  We'll see.   
 Q.  Obviously there's tons of guys always coming back to Penn State, as well as finally on a winning team, wearing Dan Connor's number.  Do you plan on picking any of their brains?  
JASON CABINDA: Actually, I just messaged Gerald Hodges the other day.  And I kind of had a couple of questions for him, asked him for some tips, advice on post-college career in terms of how to prepare for the draft, if he could go back, what would he change, kind of things like that.  And reached out to NaVorro.  Those guys will hopefully be able to mentor me and give me some advice.   
 Q.  Are you going to stay on campus?  
JASON CABINDA: No, I think I'm going to be in Florida.   
 Q.  (Question about cactus)  
JASON CABINDA: There's a guy at the restaurant that was talking to us about a jumping cactus.  I guess that's what he was talking about.  That's the reason why we were taking rocks and we were kind of like throwing, trying to see if the thing was going to move --   
 Q.  You freak because you want to get it out.  It's in there, you have to like get a doctor's help to pull all the needles out.  They can cause some damage.  
JASON CABINDA: That's crazy.  That's nuts.   
 Q.  You obviously didn't hit one of them?  
JASON CABINDA: I don't think I'm going to test any other cactus out after hearing that.   
 Q.  Do you remember handing out posters as a freshman?  
JASON CABINDA: Yeah, I do, downtown State College.   
 Q.  What was that like?  
JASON CABINDA: That was cool.  Showing face, walking around State College being a new guy, it was nice.   
 Q.  What's life look like for you now?  How are things?  
JASON CABINDA: Totally different.  No doubt.  You're treated different.  You're looked at those guys that class that kind of brought this place back.  It's definitely a different buzz about Penn State when you walk around downtown than there was my freshman year.   
So it's cool.  I mean, it's good.  It's good for us.  I think obviously a lot of work was put into it.  But I think this place deserves that buzz again, you know what I mean?  So definitely different than when we first got here.  When we first got here obviously expectations have always been high, but not as high as they are now.   
I think our freshman year, if they knew we were top 10 playing in a Fiesta Bowl, people would be going crazy now.  It's like we're playing in the Fiesta Bowl and people are angry we're not playing in the national championship.  So it's definitely different, but it's good to have those expectations.   
 Q.  Do you miss it yet?  
JASON CABINDA: Not just yet.  I don't think it's hit me yet.  But it's definitely going to.  It's going to very, very soon.   
 Q.  I remember last year people said you felt like a washed up old guy?  
JASON CABINDA: That's probably how I'm going to feel, to be completely honest.  I think it will hit me most when I'm not always around my friends all the time, stuff like that.  I'm just going to miss the heck out of my teammates.   
Just times in the locker room.  All the laughing.  We got some characters and some clowns on this team that can make everybody laugh.  I think we're going to miss that the most.   
 Q.  Are you looking forward to all those workouts, you got that next chapter right around the corner?  
JASON CABINDA: No doubt.  No doubt.  It's a grind you've got to embrace, I'm excited for it, to be honest.   
 Q.  Some guys leave the bowl and go right to where they're training.  Where are you going?  
JASON CABINDA: I think I'm going to be heading to Florida.   
 Q.  What's the highlight so far being this trip?  
JASON CABINDA: Probably Topgolf last night.  Topgolf and Fogo de Chao, those were both really good.  Fogo de Chao was amazing.   
A lot of good food.  It was never ending.  And then Topgolf last night was really cool.  Anytime we have any kind of game, something like that, we make it a competition in some way, shape or form.  It was super competitive.  Saquon's team and my team competing for points.  It was fun.   
 Q.  There's been some rumor that Saquon is terrible at golf?  
JASON CABINDA: He's not good at all.  I was pretty good.  I was actually pretty good yesterday.  I was making a lot of points.  I think the guys can attest to that.   
 Q.  Can you break down his swing?  
JASON CABINDA: I don't think it's his swing.  I don't think he was keeping his eye on the ball.  Hitting skippers.  Didn't look pretty.   
 Q.  The food aspect?  
JASON CABINDA: The food's been great so far, especially at Topgolf.  They had this beef brisket that was really, really good.   
 Q.  What is a post Jason Cabinda linebacker?  
JASON CABINDA: Guys like Cam Brown and Koa Farmer, some of those guys who have a lot of snaps under their belts right now.   
And obviously you have Micah Parsons coming in, try him out at Mike linebacker.  Ellis Brooks, the young Ellis Brooks, who I think has a lot of characteristics that can translate to that Mike linebacker position.  Hard worker, excited for him.  And Jan Johnson as well.  I think he's a sleeper in the room.   
As you see, when he gets in here, he has a nose for the ball, finds himself around the ball, physical guy.  I think he's a guy who could also make an impact.   
 Q.  Do you have a relationship with Micah at all?  
JASON CABINDA: Not much.  I've obviously been around him from a recruiting aspect.  Besides that not too much.  Confident guy, guy who is confident in his abilities, a very skilled player.  Unique skill set.  So I think he can do a lot for us.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT