NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 13, 2015
Draymond Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Draymond, you guys went small and had your best offensive game.   How much does your defense help your offense?   
DRAYMOND GREEN:   Personally or just as a team?   
   
 Q.   Both.   
DRAYMOND GREEN:   I mean, well, personally it helps because I'm able to get in more of a rhythm, more of a flow and make their big guys kind of chase me around a little bit.   I mean, as a team, it helps us as well.   We can get stops.   
Our best offense is always when we can get out in transition.   We can play in the half court, but it's always better to get in transition, get in the rhythm, get some flow and pace to the game.   And then slow the game down and execute.   So it helps us a lot.   Our defense has helped our offense the entire season, and that's something that we wanted to make sure that we continue to get back to.  
   
 Q.   When you guys do go small and Mozgov with a game like he had (indiscernible), do you know your defense is going to be better on the perimeter?   What's that like?  
DRAYMOND GREEN:   I mean, Mozgov had 28, but very few of them was on post‑ups.   He was getting little drop‑offs over the top, some putbacks and some dives down the lane.   But Mozgov was scoring 28.   He's a really good player, but you'd much rather Mozgov try to beat you than LeBron who has proven time and time again, year after year, that he can beat you.   You want somebody else to beat you.   So you've kind of got to pick your poison.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the importance of keeping up the pace, knowing that you got so far with mainly seven guys (indiscernible)?  
DRAYMOND GREEN:   It's very important to keep that pace.   Like you said, they've really played seven guys.   You want to wear them out.   I'm sure I think they'll probably try to go deeper in this game, but that's what's worked for them.   Maybe that will be their adjustment, but usually people stick with what works for them.   
So we want to continue the pace.   We usually go 10, 11 deep so we can keep that pace up throughout the course of the game.   You know, that pace is what's gotten us to this point.   
Regardless if they go deeper or not and try not to wear their guards down as much, that is the pace that we like to play at.   So we're going to continue to push the pace no matter what.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible) can you make up for the lack of size (indiscernible) in the paint with effort?   And is that the plan?   
DRAYMOND GREEN:   Absolutely.   I mean, we're maybe a little smaller, but we've got heart, and that's all that matters at the end of the day.   We're going to fight.   We're going to continue to push the basketball.   
But we're going to play with a lot of effort.   We're going to scramble.   Sometimes that helps us a little bit more.   It activates their guys, makes them have to do things that they may not necessarily want to do.   
So when we're smaller, we just have to scramble around.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned an hour‑long (indiscernible).   How do you prepare differently, if at all, when you know that you could be getting major minutes at center on defense?   
DRAYMOND GREEN:   I don't.   I mean, at this point, it is what it is.   You've just got to leave it all out there.   Whatever you have left in the tank, you've just got to leave it out there.   So I don't really worry about what minutes I'm going to play or at what position.   Just got to leave it all out there.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT