NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 10, 2015
Draymond Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Do you have any issues with the physicality there, or is that just two guys being physical? 
DRAYMOND GREEN:   No.

Q.   What should we be looking for and looking to see in the beginning of the game, to say the Warriors are ready right now? 
DRAYMOND GREEN:   Just a more spirited team.   More intensity.   I'm not saying that, hey, we're going to come out and make every shot.   Who knows.   Shots may fall, they may not.   But I'm willing to bet if our intensity level is higher, the shots go in.   If you cut a little harder, that shot falls.   If you attack the rim a little harder, that shot will go down. 
You know, so I think everything is due to our intensity level.   Whether it's our shooting, whether it's turnovers, whatever it is.   If we raise our intensity level, I think that cuts out over 50 percent of the problems that we've had.

Q.   So you're saying it's more energy than it is strategic? 
DRAYMOND GREEN:   Absolutely.   I mean, every game has been a five‑point‑or‑less game.   There isn't much more strategizing you can do.   At that point, it's who's got a 50‑50 ball.   Who dove on the floor?   Dellavedova?   Who dove on the floor for the loose ball?   Dellavedova.   Who dove on the floor?   Mike Miller.   I mean, that's three right there.   That's three loose balls.   That's the possibility of six more points.   Maybe you take away a couple basketballs.   So maybe that's the thing, double team LeBron and he don't get 40. 
They still scored 96 points.   They haven't scored over a hundred points the entire series.   So there ain't much strategy to it.   It's doing a little bit.   Keeping Tristan Thompson off the offensive boards as opposed to I don't know how many offensive rebounds they had last night.   I would guess 15, maybe more.   As opposed to getting 15, they get 7. 
Those are the little things you need to clean up, and all of a sudden you win the ballgame.   Not double team LeBron and stop him from getting 40 and they score 96 points.   Obviously, that's not the difference in the game. 
You know, that makes a difference and of course he's leading them, but there's more to it than just a strategy.   It's effort.

Q.   Do you think their thirst appears to be more in these first games? 
DRAYMOND GREEN:   I'm not sure why.   But it's definitely the case.   They're playing like a team desperate and needs something.   And we're playing like a team not desperate and got something, and that's not the case.

Q.   How much does that start, do you think, with LeBron?   That he was maybe on a mission to carry the team without two of its All‑Stars to an NBA Championship? 
DRAYMOND GREEN:   I mean, obviously he's done that.   So everything starts with him and they feed off of that. 
Myself, and Steph, we have to step up to the challenge.

Q.   Some of the points you're touching on, are guys speaking up in the locker room about this?   Or is there a quiet confidence that guys know what the issue is? 
DRAYMOND GREEN:   It's not time to be quiet.   Everybody's speaking up.   If you're quiet now, you'll be home in a couple of days.   Everybody's speaking up. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT