NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 6, 2015
Draymond Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What is your reaction now that Kyrie is lost for this series?   
DRAYMOND GREEN:   Oh, man, you just feel sorry for him.   You hate to ever see anyone get hurt.   I think the one thing that people forget is you think about the game and all that stuff, but you live that every day of your life.   So throughout the summer he has to live that, and it's tough.   So you hate to see anyone get hurt.   Just praying for him and feel sorry for him.  
   
 Q.   How does that change the outlook of the series?   
DRAYMOND GREEN:   I mean, it may change, obviously.   Kyrie's a 21‑point scorer a night, so that changes.   And the preparation on how you defend him changes, but it doesn't change the way we come out and compete every night in this series.   
They're still a great ballclub.   You know, they have a lineup that's pretty good even without Kyrie.   So they'll still come out and play.   We'll see a lot more Dellavedova and probably Mike and some other guys.   
But they're going to come out and compete the same way they always compete, and we have to make sure we come out with an even better focus level than we did in Game 1.  
   
 Q.   What kind of team do you expect to face having the Cavaliers team playing without Kyrie and rallying around the fact that they don't have him for the rest of the season or series?   
DRAYMOND GREEN:   Inspired.   A motivated team that's led by LeBron James.  
   
 Q.   Obviously LeBron did a lot in Game 1, but in your mind do you think LeBron's going to really try to do everything from here on out?   
DRAYMOND GREEN:   I didn't think he could do more than he did in Game 1 because he did a lot.   It seemed like he had the ball every possession.   So I'm interested to see how this goes.   I'm sure he'll probably get used a little bit more and be a little bit more responsible.  
   
 Q.   Is part of the plan to wear him down over the course of the series?   
DRAYMOND GREEN:   I'm not sure if that's possible.   But you want to do all you can to try to wear him down.   I mean, hopefully it takes a toll on him as the series goes on and just can't do as much.   But we shall see.  
   
 Q.   People are acting like you guys have already won this thing.   
DRAYMOND GREEN:   Who is acting like that?   
   
 Q.   Aren't a lot of people saying that to you?   
DRAYMOND GREEN:   No, I've kind of kept myself away from people.   So I don't really know what people are acting like.   I haven't really been on social media or none of that stuff.   
So I'm happy to be out of it, because I don't really want to hear that.   We've got to focus.   This is a great ballclub.   Anytime you have a player like LeBron and the supporting cast that they have, you can win ballgames.   So we've got to make sure we come in with the focus level needed in order to win this series.  
   
 Q.   It seems like with your team sometimes you guys start playing once you're down 10.   You guys get off to slow starts.   
DRAYMOND GREEN:   I don't know.   I wouldn't necessarily say we start playing once we're down 10.   We just happen ‑‑ if we get off to a slow start, we have a great second unit and they come in and pick up the slack.   
So it may seem like, oh, they started playing now.   We just switched units and they were able to get a good flow to the game, good rhythm to the game and able to pick us up.   
And that's one of the things that we pride ourselves on is our depth.   That is one of the things that really helps us out.   So we try to take advantage of it.   So if we get off to a slow start, it may seem like that just because they're able to pick up the slack.  
   
 Q.   How much better, once Andre's in the game, is the team?   
DRAYMOND GREEN:   Andre's that calming force for us.   If things aren't going right, he calms the game down and gets us what we need to get into.   He's just that steady force for us.   So when he's in the game, it makes a difference for us.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT