NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 3, 2015
Draymond Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Does it feel like The Finals yet?  
DRAYMOND GREEN:   Yeah.   All these cameras around me.   I'm not used to that.   I'm a blue‑collared guy.  
   
 Q.   What do you think when you think about going against a guy like LeBron and the history you guys are making, what goes through your mind?   
DRAYMOND GREEN:   It's another basketball game.   Obviously, it's great to be here and all that, but we're not satisfied with being here.   We set a goal at the beginning of the season to win a World Championship, and we're in a position to possibly do that, and that's our focus.   Just thrilled with being here.   If we lose, nobody cares that you were ever here.   Special enough isn't just getting here.   So we've got to finish the deal.  
   
 Q.   You just mentioned you're a blue‑collared guy.   How important is that coming into these Finals when a lot of attention, of course, (indiscernible) the role that you play (indiscernible)?   
DRAYMOND GREEN:   I'm fine with it.   I was just trying to do my job.   Do what I do and bring to this team.   Everything else we don't sit and worry about who is getting attention.  
   
 Q.   Does your mother give you any advice?   
DRAYMOND GREEN:   I don't know if there's much advice I can give her or she can give me.   The same advice she's given all season.   
But as far as advice about the game, neither one of us can give much advice.  
   
 Q.   How much do you think you'll be covering LeBron James?   I mean, you cover everybody in all five positions.   How much do you think LeBron James will be your assignment?   
DRAYMOND GREEN:   I'm sure I'll end up on him some throughout the game.   But Coach has a game plan and we're going to stick to the game plan.   When you're guarding a player like LeBron, he's not going to see one guy the entire series.   When you're guarding him, you have to throw different guys at him.   You can't give him a steady diet of anything because obviously he'll figure it out and he'll pick it apart.   
So you just have to contain, throw different guys at him and we'll see how it goes.  
   
 Q.   You're a famous talker.   Are you going to talk to him throughout the game as well?   
DRAYMOND GREEN:   I talk to everybody.  
   
 Q.   Do you think officiating standard changes in the playoffs; that they let more physical stuff go?   And if so, do you like that?   
DRAYMOND GREEN:   I think the game is a lot more physical.   As far as officiating staff?   I mean, players pick up the intensity and physicality as well more in the playoffs than in the regular season.   I think the officials may let a little bit more go or may be a little more offensive game, get away with a little more.   That's kind of what's been‑‑ how it's been over the years.   It's just not now or in the last couple of years.   It's been that way forever.  
   
 Q.   Do you like it that way?   
DRAYMOND GREEN:   I love it that way.  
   
 Q.   Why?   
DRAYMOND GREEN:   It's just a completely different game with the physicality level and everything that goes on.   It's a completely different game than the regular season.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT