NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND ONE: CLIPPERS vs WARRIORS
April 18, 2019
Draymond Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Warriors - 132, Clippers - 105   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Draymond, were you guys trying to make a statement after the game that you suffered after that large lead?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: No.  You're in the playoffs.  It's not about making statements.  It's about the first four.  Any time you step on the floor, you want to win.   
We lost home-court advantage last game, so we wanted to come and get that back.   
 Q.  Did you see the intensity coming for this game tonight?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: It was a great atmosphere.  The crowd was into it.  Obviously both teams was locked in.  Intensity was there.  I think obviously our intensity won out.  But, you know, that was a fun game to play in from start to finish.   
 Q.  How much of that intensity was about how Kevin came out?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: A lot of it.  He came out super aggressive, in kill mode.  That was all the difference for us.  We took control of the game right there in the first quarter and never lost control of it.   
 Q.  Did you know entering this game that Kevin was going to have a game like this based off how the last game went?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: I think so.  I think he was due for one.  There's been a lot of talk about him and that matchup.  How many people can stop Kevin if Kevin don't want to be stopped?  He showed that tonight.   
 Q.  Did you make it a point to come out with the defensive intensity that you showed?  Felt like you were everywhere all game.  
DRAYMOND GREEN: I mean, like I said before, it's playoff time, man.  That's my role on this team, is to bring that intensity on the defensive side of the ball.  I am the leader on that side of the ball for this team.   
We know if we're going to win, we got to get stops.  We were doing that for probably, like, a game and a half, then we kind of let go of the rope.  We wanted to come out and establish that from the beginning.   
I knew that falls on me to bring that intensity level, have everyone else follow.   
 Q.  This season you have had trouble finding that consistency.  How do you keep that going further into the playoffs?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: I think for the most part these three games we've had it.  We let go of the rope there at about the seven-minute mark in the third quarter of the last game.  For three games, for the most part, we've been pretty consistent.   
Like I said before, it's playoff time.  You don't worry about letdowns, lack of focus.  The reality of it is, human nature, sometimes just happens, regardless how much you want to fight against it.  It's never because you don't want to be here.  Sometimes during the regular season, I think every team goes where you just don't want to be there.  It's not that way in the playoffs, so I don't worry about that at all.   
 Q.  Does Bogut look better...  
DRAYMOND GREEN: Hell, yeah.  I don't know what you about to ask, but he looks amazing.  It's been incredible to have him back, especially with DeMarcus going down.  We're obviously still praying for DeMarcus.  Wish him a speedy recovery.  Hoping he can get back for this Finals run.   
But Bogut has been incredible for us.  Absolutely stepping into that starting lineup, he played a huge role for us.   
 Q.  Mr. Green, now that you had that slipup in the quarter and a half last game, are you done, are you ready to run the table throughout the rest of the playoffs?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: I think we was ready to run the table then.  You sometimes just can't control it.  However, that's always our mindset, is to try to run the table and win every time we step on the floor.   
Just because of one game, it's not going to change it, no.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT