NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS vs WARRIORS
June 5, 2018
Draymond Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What are you hearing on the potential for [Andre] Iguodala to play?  And if he plays, what kind of a boost would that be?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: I think if he did play, obviously, we all know what he's capable of and how he helps this team.  So it will be a huge boost for us.  I've kind of heard the same thing you've heard.  I read it yesterday when I was sitting on the plane that he's been pain-free for a few days or something like that.  Shout-out to Chris Haynes reporting.  So that's all I know.   
 Q.  Over the last two games while you've won, they've outrebounded you guys.  Game 1 almost came down to an offensive rebound on their end.  How do you reverse that on your end going into Game 3?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: I think it's a group effort.  They have guys, that's kind of what they do, is offensive rebounds.  So it will be a group effort.  It's not all one guy.  We have to make sure we get the 50-50 balls.  Make sure we're boxing out.  It's just a mentality.  You've got to think every time that you've got to box out.  If you're not boxing someone out, you're going to help someone else box out.   
That will be even more important on the road.  To get them the second-, third-chance opportunities, they'll feed off that.  Their crowd will feed off of that, and that will bring more energy to the building.   
 Q.  What kind of mentality do you have to bring when you're going and attacking the boards like that?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: At the end of the day, it's all going to boil down to who wants the ball more.  Whoever wants the ball more is going to go get it.  Obviously, every now and then the ball takes a bounce that's not in your favor, and that happens.  But over the course of 48 minutes, if you want it more, you're going to go get the rebound more.  So it just takes that mentality.   
 Q.  Can you expound upon your emotions coming back here to Cleveland for the fourth year in a row and how this home crowd is going to impact the Cavaliers play tomorrow?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: Oh, they definitely feed off their crowd.  It gets very loud in here.  For me, there is no emotion coming in.  Fourth year back here.  We're in the NBA Finals.  Whether we're here or anywhere else, there's a job to be done.  It's a tough task ahead.  We understand that.  It's not about, Oh, man, we're back here for the fourth year in a row.  It's about trying to win a championship.   
 Q.  You've been getting some great contributions from the bench. How is Steve [Kerr] getting those guys ready to participate?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: I think that's something that we've always kind of relied on, is our depth.  Shaun [Livingston] was great off the bench.  Jordan Bell gave us great minutes.  [Kevon] Looney gave us great minutes.  D-West [David West] gave us great minutes off the bench.  Everybody who came into the game.  That was important for us in that game.   
You know, they're professionals.  So to a certain extent, they have to get themselves ready to go.  Steve obviously lays out the game plan, but it's on everyone else to get themselves ready to play.   
 Q.  I don't know if you heard, but the Philadelphia Eagles were disinvited from their White House visit.  So I guess the Warriors have some pretty good company in that regard now.  
DRAYMOND GREEN: I guess everybody gets disinvited.  Maybe it's just a tradition that needs to stop if everybody's going to be disinvited.  So it is what it is.   
 Q.  A few of the Eagles have said that they still want to make that trip to [Washington] D.C. but do other things while they're there, similar to you guys.  Is that a big component of this, do you think?  To do something positive instead of just have a reaction to his reaction?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: Yeah, I think so.  You still want to do something.  At the end of the day, it's supposed to be a celebratory event.  So you still kind of want to do that.  D.C. is obviously a landmark in American history that we all kind of want to feel.  You want to see all of the different things that D.C. has to offer.  I think it usually is a big deal, and people want to go.   
But it is what it is.  I think if you look at doing something positive, it's probably the right way to go.  Usually in basketball, if you foul me cheaply and I foul you back, I'm probably going to get caught as making a reaction to the reaction.   
So in life, you react to something somebody else does, you're usually the person that gets caught.  I think we'll kind of take the same approach to that.  You don't make a reaction to his reaction.  You just kind of go along with whatever else you want to do, because that reaction to his reaction probably won't end well for you.   
 Q.  You like to talk a lot and take care of your teammates all the time.  How do you think your character contributes to building a great team?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: Just being vocal.  Obviously, I think in basketball you have to be vocal in order for things to connect together.  So I just try to be that piece for us.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT