NBA ALL-STAR 2018
February 17, 2018
Draymond Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What's been your impression of the Celtics?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: I mean, they're a very good team.  They're young, this is their first year together.  Obviously, Kyrie is one of the few guys, if not the only guy, with championship experience.  So it takes a little experience to kind of figure things out.   
I think they went from going into the season with Kyrie and Gordon [Hayward] and Al [Horford] kind of expecting to be really good.  With young guys like Jaylen, Jayson Tatum, expected to be really good.  Then Gordon went down, and then there were no expectations for them.  And they completely outplayed that.   
So then it's a different thing.  Now all of a sudden everyone is gunning for you, and that takes some adjusting to.  So I think they're just adjusting to it, but they'll be fine.  Everyone hits that rough patch in the season.  I think it's just that's what they're going through right now.   
 Q.  What was your thought on the FOX commentator's comments to LeBron?  What was your thought?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: Embarrassing for someone to -- it just shows where we really are.  You hear all this stuff about how we're moving forward, we're doing this; it just shows where we really are.   
 Q.  What do you think Joel Embiid's best skill is on and off the court?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: On the court, like I don't know what his best skill is.  He's skilled.  Very good.  Off the court, Instagram, locations, it's pretty cool.   
 Q.  What is your message to people who say shut up and dribble?  What is your message?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: They need to shut up.  Why do you feel the need to tell someone else to shut up?  You're dealing with a problem within yourself if you feel you need to tell someone else to shut up.  You probably should just be quiet if that's what you feel you need to say.   
I don't know.  It's kind of a different thing.  But you're dealing with an inner problem that you've got to go tackle if you're feeling the need to tell someone else to shut up.   
 Q.  Damian [Lillard] said you were one of the exciting players to play with.  
DRAYMOND GREEN: Who is that?   
 Q.  Damian Lillard.  
DRAYMOND GREEN: Yeah, obviously, Damian being from Oakland, we kind of built a relationship at the combine.  Kind of hit it off with people.  I had never met him, and then we met.  We kind of stayed in touch, talking, we see each other sometimes and texting.  He's had a couple functions back at home in Oakland where I'd go show my support.  I think he does a great job in the community.   
But Damian's a great guy, a fantastic player, and even better person.  So definitely looking forward to playing with him.  Maybe I can get a couple assists.  That would be good.   
 Q.  What are your favorite All-Star memories?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: I think I'm 2-0.  Hopefully I can go 3-0.   
 Q.  What do you think of the change in format?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: I think it's great.  I think we needed to bring some new energy to the All-Star Game.  And I think the league did a great job of kind of being innovative and trying something different.   
So I'm excited about it.  I think it was a great idea by the league.   
 Q.  Do you like your team?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: I do like my team.   
 Q.  Would you like to play for Team LeBron?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: No.  I'm on Team Steph.   
 Q.  LeBron just announced he's going to remake "House Party."  If you could remake or star in a '90s movie or sitcom, what would it be?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: Yeah, I saw that he was remaking "House Party."  That's dope.  If I could make a movie and star in it?  Man, "Friday."   
 Q.  What character would you be?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: Deebo (laughing).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT