NBA FINALS: WARRIORS VS. RAPTORS
June 7, 2019
Draymond Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Raptors - 105, Warriors - 92
Q. Coach Kerr was just talking about how much pride you guys have and you've been on top of the mountain for two years, and these guys trying to knock you off and take the crown.  How much does that pride, just take that next game one at a time, when you know someone's trying to take that crown from you?
DRAYMOND GREEN: That's important to have that pride, to have the faith in what we're capable of.  We just got to take it one game at a time.  We got to win one game.  We win one, then we'll build on that.  But I've been on the wrong side of 3-1 before, so why not make our own history.
Q. Steve was just in here talking about the intensity that you guys played with defensively in the first half, and you in particular.  What do you think the difference was in the second half?  Did you get guys get tired, or did they just start executing differently?
DRAYMOND GREEN: I think they made shots.  Our defense was flying around.  I think we still got some good contests there in the second half, like started the half, they had two great contests on Kawhi's threes and he hit them.  Then they found a rhythm, and once a team like that finds a rhythm, it's hard to take them out of it.
Q. Their ball movement is very good, obviously.  Did that seem to give them open shots at times and leave you guys a half a step behind?
DRAYMOND GREEN: Their ball movement has been great, I think our rotations tonight was better, but you know, still got to get better.
Q. Two questions.  One, how difficult is it to try to rattle a guy like Kawhi who just doesn't really get rattled ever?  And two, do you have any hope that KD can get out there on Monday, and how hard would that be for him after not playing for a month?
DRAYMOND GREEN: I don't think you're ever going to rattle Kawhi.  Not sure we used that word one time in our scouting report, we're going to rattle him.  But you just try to make him take tough shots, and you live with the results.
As far as KD, there's been hope that he will come back the whole series.  So that's not going to change now.  Obviously we hope to have him, but we'll see what happens.  We don't make that final call, his -- he don't really even make that final call.  His body will tell him if he can get out there or not.  And if he can, great; and if not, you still got to try to find a way to win the next game.
Q. Obviously Kawhi's 36 is going to get a lot of the headlines today, but Serge Ibaka's 20 really hurt you guys.  He was slipping screens in the pick-and-roll.  What was so hard about him to guard tonight, and why did he find so much success against your guys' defense?
DRAYMOND GREEN: Well, I think we kind of messed up our coverages a little bit on him, but you got to give him credit, he knocked some shots down.  Seems like every game it's somebody else.  You know, Danny Green in Game 3, then we completely take him out of the game tonight, and Serge, and so -- like I said, we got to win one game, and however we got to get that done, start with that and go from there.
Q. Can you narrate that chase-down block on Siakam and whatever happened following it?
DRAYMOND GREEN: Lowry?
Q. Was it Lowry?  No, I thought it was Siakam.  No?  It was Lowry.  There you go.  That's the play I want to talk about.
DRAYMOND GREEN: I mean, just he kind of got a head start on me.  I was turning and sprinting, but just tried to make a play on the ball and was able to get the block and then knock the rebound away from Siakam, and we was going back the other way.  We still lost, though.  So it really don't matter.
Q. Earlier in the series you were talking about Kawhi, that he doesn't look like KD or LeBron or Lillard when he scores 36 points.  But he still gets it done.  He didn't come into the League as a natural scorer.  When he does this kind of stuff in a game like this, what impression do you leave about what this guy's affect is on this series?
DRAYMOND GREEN: He still don't look like them, but he's still getting it done.  You got to give him his credit.  He imposed his will on the game, and all the other guys followed him.  So I'm not sure if it will ever look like those other guys, but he gets the job done, so you got to give him credit for it.
Q. You guys have delivered so many of those big punches in third quarters before.  Tonight you were on the receiving end of one.  As that's happening, as you're sort of feeling the game go the other the way, what are you thinking and how are you trying to sort of claw back in those moments?
DRAYMOND GREEN: Oh, this sucks.  It sucks really bad.  You just try and do whatever you can to change it.  Get a stop, get a bucket, get some momentum.  Every time we did, they answered.  So yeah, it sucked, a lot.  But can't get it back now.
Q. You're the heart and soul of the Warriors.  I'm pretty sure you look your teammates in the eyes when you guys went back in the locker room.  What did you see?  And as a leader, what do you think you can do to motivate your teammates to get back in this series?
DRAYMOND GREEN: Just keep guys' head up, keep guys' blitz defense up.  You got to win three games in a row.  We have won three games in a row before.  However you got to get that done, you just got to get it done.
But just talk to the guys, don't read the press clippings, don't watch the TV, like just believe what we believe and go out there and give it what we got.  And if we fail, you live with the results, but just leave it all out there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT