NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: WARRIORS VS SPURS
May 19, 2017
Draymond Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. The Warriors, I think, are 2-26 here since '03.
DRAYMOND GREEN: Yeah, we ain't been here since '03.  I was actually 13 in '03.  So that doesn't have much to do with us.
Q. But what makes this place such a tough place?  Is it just the Spurs are a good team or does it go beyond that?
DRAYMOND GREEN: Obviously they're a good team.  They have a great home crowd.  When you're playing against a team like this that doesn't make many mistakes, especially on their home floor, every mistake you make is amplified.  It's multiplied by 10 when you make a mistake because they already don't make many.  And then their crowd, they feed off that.  They feed off the mistakes you make.  They get loud, and then their team ends up feeding off them.
They have a great thing here.  It makes it tough to win, but at the end of the day, it's not impossible.
Q. You always talk about if somebody on your team is questionable, you go in planning as if he's not going to play.  It the opposite with a guy like Kawhi?
DRAYMOND GREEN: Yeah, you definitely go in with the mindset that he's going to play.  You're going to prepare for him to play.  No doubt in my mind that he'll play.  It's a lot easier to adjust to him not playing than it is to go in with the mindset of he's not going to play and then all of a sudden he's out there.  So you definitely go in with the mindset that he's playing, and don't expect anything other than that.
Q. You guys have the biggest win margin in playoff history, 17 points a game, through 10 games.  In your mind, what is driving this thing?  What is driving this mission?  Just simply to get to The Finals or is there more to it?
DRAYMOND GREEN: No, it's to win The Finals.  But, obviously, it's a process to do that.  You have to take care of what's in front of you.  I think we've been playing pretty well.  We've kind of been in a groove throughout these playoffs, which obviously helps.  But we have a goal.  You're chasing that goal, and that goal isn't to have the largest margin of victory or whatever it is.  But at the end of the day, you want to take care of business.  I think we're a talented enough team to where when we take care of business, you end up with those margins of victory.  And that's what it's been.
But if we lose four games in a row, nobody's going to talk about, oh, man, through 10 games they had the larger margin of victory in playoff history.  So that stuff really doesn't matter.  The only thing that matters is we're up 2-0, and we need two more games to close out the series.
Q. During the season you guys talked about how you felt like you could get better, get better, get better.  Do you feel like you're at that point where you almost could be?
DRAYMOND GREEN: Yeah, I feel like we're moving in the right direction, but I still feel like we've got a lot of room to grow.  That growth is happening every night.  It's not like we're just so far off and we think we're the best thing since sliced bread and we're nowhere near where we could possibly go.  When I say get better, I think it's cleaning up on a lot of the mistakes that we do make.  They're just most of the time simple mistakes, where it's being a little bit more focused, or making that one extra pass, or making that one extra rotation.  I think if we can clean up all those things, that can make us even better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT