NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 9, 2016
Draymond Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. In that individual matchup you had with LeBron, do you feel that's something you'll probably see the rest of the series?
DRAYMOND GREEN: What individual match?
Q. Just if the Cavs will start him on you?
DRAYMOND GREEN: Oh.  Yeah, I'm sure I will.  That's fine.  I think I've got to be more active on the offensive end and kind of wear him out more.  I don't think I was that active or aggressive last night.  So I'll be more aggressive and like my chances.
Q. You and Iggy last year were credited with making it hard for LeBron and a making him make a lot of tough shots.  Sounds like last night maybe was a little different.
DRAYMOND GREEN: Oh, he had a good game.  But we don't expect to hold him down in every game in the series.  He's going to have a good game.  That's why he is who he is.  But we can do a better job and we will.
Q. Did you look up to him when you were younger?  He's not that much older than you, but he's an iconic kind of guy.
DRAYMOND GREEN: I watched him growing up, but I don't look up to any man.
Q. When they went on that 9-0 run to start the game, LeBron started screaming and yelling.  I saw you walk by and you smiled.  I was curious, if this was like a regular season where you don't have these points against you, would you have said something at that time?
DRAYMOND GREEN: No, I said what I wanted to say.  I smiled.  It was funny to me.  Because that right there let me know that they were searching for something, and they found it.  They had a good game.  But I said what I wanted to say.
Q. Did this crowd rattle you guys in the beginning?
DRAYMOND GREEN: No.  They [the Cavaliers] rattled us.  I don't necessarily think -- they came out and played harder than us.  They imposed their will on the game.  Ain't no crowd had nothing to do with anything.
Q. With a loss like this, how hard is it to put it behind you?
DRAYMOND GREEN: It's not at all.  It's a loss.  Whether you lose by 30 or 1 in the Playoffs, you've got a game in the loss column.  When we lost to OKC, we lost two games by 30; we won the series.  It don't matter.  I said that after Game 2, everybody was worried, oh, they beat Cleveland by 35.  It don't matter.  It's a win.  Last night's a loss.  Nobody's like, oh, man, we lost by 30.  What do we do next?  We play Game 4 next.
Q. Kerr said you guys were soft last night.  Do you agree with that?
DRAYMOND GREEN: 100%.
Q. How does that happen?
DRAYMOND GREEN: I don't know.  If I had an answer, it wouldn't happen.  But I think we were extremely soft.  We got bullied, punked, and any other word that you can find for it.  That's pretty much what it was, and that's why the game went the way it went.
Q. You seem to have a little bit of a relationship with LeBron off the court whether it's through UNINTERRUPTED or some of the bets that you guys do.  In a pressure situation like The Finals, can that off-the-court relationship still come into play?  Does it make it more fun at all?
DRAYMOND GREEN: It definitely makes it more fun when you have a relationship with someone off the court because you also know that's someone that you will talk to over the summer.  It makes it more fun, but it's not something that you need to worry about either.  I'm trying to win a championship.  He's trying to win a championship.  So none of that stuff really matters.
Q. Last night Steve said that Steph uncharacteristically had a bad game.  Steph admitted that he kind of went away from the game plan a couple of times.  He didn't hear switches.  Does that happen a lot with Steph or is this one of those rare occasions?
DRAYMOND GREEN: I think it happens to everyone.  Throughout the course of the season you're going to have rough patches.  You're going to have games where it just ain't there.  It happens to everyone.  Nobody -- I mean, contrary to popular belief, nobody in this league is super human.  Everybody has bad games.  Everybody has rough patches.  Some come at different times than others.  Some they're worse times, but it happens.
Q. What do you have to do to have a good game tomorrow?
DRAYMOND GREEN: Just be me.  Play more aggressive, like I said.  Obviously let the game come to me, but be way more aggressive and more accurate than I was yesterday.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT