NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v WARRIORS
May 21, 2016
Draymond Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How do you think you guys have played defense in the first couple games?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: I think defensively we've been pretty good.  Even the first game I thought we were pretty solid defensively with the exception of that 40-point quarter in the third quarter.  And the last game I thought we were really good defensively, so overall defensively I think it's been good.   
 Q.  You're sagging so far off [Andre] Roberson, obviously.  What is your philosophy when you're that guy?  Are you just going after the ball, or how do you look at that?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: Try to stop KD [Kevin Durant] and [Russell] Westbrook, and if Roberson makes a play, then he made a play.  But I think anybody in the world's going to try to stop KD and Westbrook over him.  That's no disrespect to him, but those guys are tough to stop one-on-one.  So whether he was on the court or not, you've still got to load up for those guys regardless.  It's kind of a theory.  I think it's the same theory when anybody plays.   
 Q.  You're even coming off him when he's on the other side of the court and you're going to the other side.  Have you ever done it like that?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: I think it's been a little more exaggerated, obviously, what I've been doing.  It's more exaggerated help.  But that's been the game plan.   
 Q.  Can you talk, if you're going to get into anybody's head, you'd want to get into KD's or Westbrook's head.  Do you think this defense gets in it a little bit?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: No, I wasn't saying like I come into the game trying to get in KD or Westbrook's head.  I was simply saying I don't come into the game trying to get in Steven Adams' head.  But I don't think so.  I think KD still played a really good game last game, and Russ had his stretches in the first game.  So I don't really think it's in their head.  I think we just played a good game last game.  But that's one game out of a seven-game series.   
 Q.  You and Steve [Kerr] talked about moving on from the whole halftime incident here pretty quickly.  Did getting over it help your relationship grow at all?  I know it's back and forth with you and the coaches and it's part of your career.  
DRAYMOND GREEN: I think it's definitely helped us grow.  I think it's helped this team grow.  It's something we joked about coming in here today.   
 Q.  What did you say?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: I didn't say nothing.  I'm not going to be the one to joke about it.  But everybody else did.   
 Q.  Situations like these, I mean, playoffs on the road, does this team get closer?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: Absolutely.  You have to be closer on the road.  It's you against the world when you're on the road.   
 Q.  Do you like that?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: Absolutely.  If you can win a game on the road and quiet the other team's crowd, that's the best feeling in the world.  You don't do that being separated.  You have to be really tight on the road because things are going to go wrong, they're going to make a run, the crowd's going to get loud, and that's when you have to come together even more.  So I think we do a really good job of that.   
 Q.  Even when they make fun of you?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: Yeah, that's fine.  I'm not sensitive, so it works out.   
 Q.  You've won a road playoff game in nine straight series.  You've been on the team the whole time.  What's it take to do that and how much pride do you have to have?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: It takes togetherness and an incredible amount of focus.  You have to be locked in from the gate.  You don't get a cushion on the road, especially in the playoffs.  You don't get a cushion to come out slacking and all of a sudden you come back -- not in the playoffs.   
You've got to come out locked in from the jump.  You've got to be ready to not only match their intensity level, but go way beyond it.  Because if you match their intensity level at home, you lose.  You've got to be way above their intensity level when you're on the road in order to win road playoff games.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT