NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2016
Draymond Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about the Splash Brothers shooting from the three every day and every night; who do you think has a better chance to win tonight in the Three-Point Contest?
DRAYMOND GREEN: I think they'll both do great.  Obviously it's two great shooters, but there are a lot of other great shooters in that group as well.  I looked at the roster and was like, Man, this is going to be a great contest.  So I'm just going to roll with my guys, but I think it will be a great contest.
Q. If you had to pick one?
DRAYMOND GREEN: I pick Stephen and Klay.
Q. Draymond, most of us have come into the league a few years ago.  Oklahoma City and Miami were sort of meeting up every year, fortunes changed.  Do you ever wonder how long can the success of a team like the Warriors last?
DRAYMOND GREEN: I mean, you kind of think about that, but you can't worry about that.  You just stay in the moment.  Obviously, we know this won't last forever, so you've got to enjoy these moments and take advantage of it.
Q. Do you ever think when you think about some of the preeminent players of your generation, Kevin Durant and LeBron, are being kept from winning a championship right now because of you guys and possibly this year as well?
DRAYMOND GREEN: We don't really focus on that.  But LeBron (No Microphone), like I said, we just try to take advantage of this being our time right now and just enjoy it.
Q. Do you feel honored that people are saying that you should be in the MVP vote right now?
DRAYMOND GREEN: It's definitely an honor, for sure.  But none of that happens without winning games.  So if you win, then the individual success comes, but all you really focus on is winning.  Winning takes care of everything.
Q. Who do you think will win the Skills Challenge?
DRAYMOND GREEN: I think one of the big guys will win the Skills Challenge.
Q. How has your first All-Star experience been so far?
DRAYMOND GREEN: It's been amazing.  I've been running around every day all day, but I've enjoyed every bit of it.  And looking forward to continuing.
Q. Anything bigger coming out from you in the real game?
DRAYMOND GREEN: Bigger thing coming out for me?
Q. Yeah, like MVP?
DRAYMOND GREEN: I don't focus on those things.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT