NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 12, 2016
Draymond Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What is the most exciting aspect for you about being here this All-Star Weekend?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: It's been amazing just to be a part of this and around all the guys and just really seeing how it all works.  Obviously, it being my first one, it's a lifelong dream.  To finally be here is obviously a dream come true.  I'm just really excited to continue the weekend.   
 Q.  This being Kobe's final one and there is extra significance, what does Kobe mean to you?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: He's meant so much to the game.  Growing up in the era that I did, Kobe was that guy.  So to play in an All-Star Game with him, I mean, that's special.  I grew up a Kobe fan, so it's something that's really special.   
 Q.  After winning the Championship last year, how have you all been able to stay so focused to get to 48-4?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: I think we just want more.  We're not satisfied with winning the Championship.  We think we have something special and it only lasts so long, so we want to take advantage of that and not get complacent.  Let's continue to try to get more.   
 Q.  Do you guys talk about the Bulls record at all?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: No, we don't.  I think it's one of those things where it will be great to do that, but it's not something we talk about on a daily basis.  If it happened and would we like it to happen, yeah.  That would be cool.  At the same time, if it didn't, it's not the end-all, be-all for us.   
 Q.  Is the only time you ever think about it is when we asked about it?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: Yeah, obviously, in today's day and age, it's all over your Twitter and your Instagram, so it's hard to even get away from it.  But it is what it is.  I mean, that's the life we live.  We just try to handle it as best you can.   
 Q.  Draymond, you know Steph a lot better than anyone.  What personality traits of his help to create a player?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: His selflessness.  His selflessness, but also his confidence.  He has a quiet confidence about himself that's kind of unmatched.  Hard worker, everything that he does, he gives it his all, and it's the same on the basketball court.  That's why he's become the player that he is.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: Absolutely.  He does a lot of great things.  So you're definitely wowed, but you just kind of try to stay focused.  Because sometimes he can catch you.  We used to do it a lot and get wild about what Steph's doing and just give him the ball, give him the ball.  I think we work better now when he's having those moments and continuing to play.  But some of the stuff he does is pretty amazing.   
 Q.  Since it's your first time being in the All-Star Game, who are you looking forward to playing with?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: I'm looking forward to playing with all the guys.  This is a special moment.  It's an elite group of guys, and to be one of these guys here, it's something I could have never imagined doing.  So I'm just looking forward to really being a part of all of it.   
 Q.  So you have a triple-double, and what do you put the most importance on when you're playing?  
DRAYMOND GREEN: Really getting the other guys involved.  I've never really been a high-volume shooting type of guy.  That's not what I do.  So the thing I take more pride in is rebounding the ball and I think everything else just comes with it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT