AL DIVISION SERIES: MARINERS v WHITE SOX
October 4, 2000
Jay Buhner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  Can you talk about being up 2-0 and a chance to finish them up at home?
 
JAY BUHNER: Well, basically we wanted to come in here and break serve, per se.  So to win the first two, take it back to our home field, have a home-field advantage, it's going to be pretty sweet.  To christen Safeco Field its first full season, to be in the playoffs and have a chance to basically clinch, it's going to be pretty nice.  
 

Q.  What was the pitch you hit off Sirotka? 
 
JAY BUHNER: He threw two cut fastballs the first two pitches before that I fouled off.  He hung a curveball that basically stayed chest-high.  
 

Q.  Do you remember what you did to the Yankees in '95, coming back from a 2-0 deficit.  Are you concerned at all about the same situation this year?
 
JAY BUHNER: I'd certainly rather be on this end than when we were against the Yankees, no doubt.  At the same time, we give a lot of respect to that team over there, but we don't want to give too much respect.   We're up 2-0, we're playing with a lot of confidence.  Going down the month of September, we had a great month.  I think that's been a carry-over.  Plus, the fact that we made it very interesting and a little tough on ourselves.  So those games seemed like playoff games.  So I think in a sense that helped us. But we're not going to take anything for granted, and have got to be careful because they have a very potent offense over there.  But our pitching staff, our defense and our bullpen have been excellent.  
 

Q.  Looking back to two weeks of a pressure-filled race to get here, how much did that help? Are you loose now because you've accomplished that?
 
JAY BUHNER: Yeah, I think going down the stretch, they were very pressure-packed games.  And with Oakland playing the way they were playing, they just weren't losing any ball games.  So I think definitely that helped.  Again, like I said before, I think those games, the atmosphere felt like playoff atmosphere, playoff games.  So that certainly helped.  
 

Q.  Can you talk about your sacrifice bunt? It wasn't a bad bunt. 
 
JAY BUHNER: No, actually it was a screwup, to be honest with you.  
 

Q.  What did Lou say to you?
 
JAY BUHNER: He said,  "Jesus Christ, son, what the hell you doing?" (Laughter.)  But I thought truthfully, it's totally my fault.  Because at the same time I saw Larry go to the bunt, then take it off, I didn't stay with it.  It was stupid on my part, I should have kind of used my head.  At the same time, too, I thought he gave the sac bunt.  I didn't even do a good job doing that.  Normally, I get the bunt down.  If I at least got the guy to second, it wouldn't have been so bad.  But, yeah, it was a pretty feeble effort.  Thank goodness it didn't come back to haunt me.  
 

Q.  You have 13 players on the team with playoff experience.  How important is that to the team in this situation and in the last two or three weeks?
 
JAY BUHNER: Well, I think it's huge for us.  You know, we have about what, four, five guys from this team, from '95, '97.  We brought in the Oleruds, the Hendersons, and many more that come from backgrounds and playoff history.   It certainly helps.  When it comes to pressure-packed situations, having been there before, without a doubt it's got to help you.  But at the same time, too, we still have to go out and execute and do the little things and we've done that.  These first two games we've really done that.  We've gotten some big hits.  Mike Cameron's coming up huge for us.  Our bullpen has been unbelievable and our starting staff, they settled in.  We got them some runs early, which I think definitely helped take the pressure off.  And Abbott bounced back today, the bullpen came in, did a solid job.  It's been a total team effort and the guys are fired up.   
 

Q.  You've been here through some of the bad bullpens.  Can you talk about how different it is this year and how deep those guys are?
 
JAY BUHNER: Yeah, without a doubt it's been our Achilles heel for so many years.  I think with Pat coming in, that was the first thing he addressed.  He wanted to make sure he could turn it over to some guys who could do the job.  I think that's the biggest key, all year long, our starters have gone in, they know when they turn the ball over to the bullpen they feel pretty confident doing that.  You can see that.  You can sense that.  They're a close-knit family down there.  They take a lot of pride and joy in what they've done.  Their whole attitude and body language is totally there, they step on that field, get on that mound, they're ready to do business, they mean business.  They've done it for us all year long.  
 

Q.  I don't know if you talked about your home run.  They just tied the score up 2-2.  Talk about going out there. Did you expect to hit a home run?
 
JAY BUHNER: No, not with two strikes I'm not looking to hit a home run, I'm looking to hit a ball hard.  I'm kind of meat-and-potatoes, let-it-fly type of guy.  But at the same time, too, when I get two strikes, I'm trying to make some hard contact.  So, no, I wasn't trying to hit a home run there, but it turned out to be a force, no doubt.  
 

Q.  Can you share the emotions you've felt throughout the last two days?
 
JAY BUHNER: Oh, man, I tell you, it's very nerve-wracking for me personally.  When McLemore made that play, I had a little upchuck episode in the outfield.  It's just so hard to get to this stage, for those of you -- I mean, when you play 162 in 185 days, it is an unbelievable grind.  And the grind for me personally and mentally this winter was pretty tough.  I didn't think I was going to play here. So for me, it means a lot to be a part of it.  The biggest thing, to be able to stay healthy, be able to go out there and contribute, be able to get a big hit for us, put us in the lead.  I'll definitely cherish it without a doubt.  Because, again, it's so hard to get here.  You might not ever get another chance.  I'm definitely going to enjoy every second of it, have the most fun I can have, hopefully come in here and be a part of this a few more times, and have my family with me.  So I'm loving life right now.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT