BAYLOR UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 21, 2018
Greg Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Came along quite a bit during the spring.  
GREG ROBERTS: Most definitely.  Most definitely.  Last year was a learning experience for us all.  And this year we had a base.  So it was just -- it was more focused.  You knew what you were trying to do.  You knew what the goal was.  You knew what the standard was.  That's what we're trying to reach every day.  I think we did a good job of that every day trying to execute.   
 Q.  Is there still a lot less thinking maybe reacting than thinking?  
GREG ROBERTS: Being older you can slow the game down.  Like I said, having the defense under your belt for a year, everything kind of can slow down for you.  So I would say so.   
 Q.  What about the secondary, what are you seeing from those guys and how much Coach talked about it, do you feel like you're way improved back there?  
GREG ROBERTS: Definitely.  We've got more depth.  Like I said, people know what we need and they've got the -- it's a hard position.  It's a lot on them back there.  And me as a D lineman and us as a group we can help them by getting the backs, get some sacks, rushing the passer, symbiotic relationship.  As long as we help them, they can help us.   
 Q.  Feel the team has toughness Coach has been looking for?  
GREG ROBERTS: Yeah, most definitely.  We're there.  It's about learning at this point.  I think we're tough enough to beat anybody.  It's just can we do it.   
 Q.  What's the addition of Frank Okam been to the team?  
GREG ROBERTS: Amazing.  He's been an All-American on all levels.  Gone everywhere we want to go.  And he has that player's experience, something that we can all take from and grow with.   
And he's real smart.  Real analytical.  Brings that pro mentality to us.  He's been helpful in the short spring we've had him.  Looking forward to working with him.   
 Q.  How much important is the summer, getting ready for fall camp, how important is this next time period for this team?  
GREG ROBERTS: The most important thing the team has to look forward to right now, it's the next step, it's what everybody needs to be focused on.  The spring, it was a good spring.  And need to move past it now.  Take whatever, you learned your lessons, and go work on whatever your weaknesses are all summer.   
 Q.  Was this fun?  Coach talked about he likes to keep it fun.  
GREG ROBERTS: The game?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
GREG ROBERTS: Yeah, I like the situation we had a lightning delay and had a bunch of fans come out.  We really owe it to them, shows what we've got going and what they have to look forward to.   
So it was fun as a player.  And it was, just as an older guy, it was good to be done.   
 Q.  Coach said when he was doing the awards and stuff that this team is going to be in a bowl next year.  
GREG ROBERTS: Oh, yes, most definitely.  Most definitely.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT