ALLSTATE SUGAR BOWL: OHIO STATE v ALABAMA
December 30, 2014
Landon Collins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Nick Perry, best (indiscernible) player on the team?
LANDON COLLINS:   I doubt it.   We've got a couple of good players, Mike, Bradley Sylvie (indiscernible), Perry, you got T.J. Yeldon.   You've got a couple I can tell you that much right now, but that was a fun experience because the patient that we was visiting, he was kind of quiet.   He was nervous.   We just walked in the room.   He was looking at us crazy.   We started talking about the game, we saw him light up.
Once Nick Perry hopped on the sticks with him, he was all excited.   They said it was like the first time we put a smile on his face all day.   So it was a great experience.

Q.   I don't know about you, but I'm old school.   I go with Nintendo.   What's your old school console?
LANDON COLLINS:   Nintendo 64.

Q.   Best 64 game?
LANDON COLLINS:   Blitz.   NFL Blitz.

Q.   The Ohio State defensive coordinator and offensive coordinator and the players all said that the thing that stands out about your guys' defense is how big those guys are up front.   For you guys, how does your defensive line kind of impact what you do as a defense?
LANDON COLLINS:   Penetration.   Pushing the offensive line back, not allowing the quarterback to step into his throws and make him scramble and make him have bad reads.   And when you make him scramble to one side he can't look to the other side and that's a bad throw to get us off the field because you can get an interception.   So that's the best thing they do.

Q.   I know that you don't have a lot of reference points from other college defensive lines but do they stand out these are particularly big dudes?
LANDON COLLINS:   Always.   Always.   When I walk in, where I come from, I said (indiscernible) down to the line, get the call, I just look up at them and say thank you God.

Q.   Unrelated note, I know you've probably gotten this question a lot this week, but what's it been like scouting Ohio State, knowing, only having that one viewing of that quarterback?
LANDON COLLINS:   Haven't changed the offense we kind of thing of, and just going back to our homework and being able to read what their key concepts, what they like to do.   He's a passing quarterback.   So we know that we are probably going to stick with more passing than runs from him.   So we'll just sit back and see what happens and try to roll out the first couple of series, see what he does.

Q.   Speaking of big guys, first saw him on film, is that one of the bigger quarterbacks you've seen?
LANDON COLLINS:   (Indiscernible) I don't know.   Not at all.

Q.   How do you keep the NFL stuff separate from the mission.   You still got a mission to keep an eye, keep focused on?
LANDON COLLINS:   You gotta know who you're playing with, playing with these guys, these guys are my brothers.   I don't want to be thinking about something that possibly in my future.   I want to give them my all and I want to leave‑‑ I want to have a chance to leave I want to leave with these rings before anything.

Q.   As it's gone, though, from September to October to November, we get closer and closer, does it get harder and harder to keep that other part away?
LANDON COLLINS:   Not at all, because I mean like what my coach said we (indiscernible) cut a note and I have my voice not nothing to add to the season and not worry about it because I want to play.   I want to play with my brothers as long as I can.

Q.   How difficult do you guys make it on the quarterbacks to read defenses?   Like if you were a quarterback, presnap read, how difficult is it to read your guys' defense in the presnap?
LANDON COLLINS:   That would be a question to ask Blake because we play against it all the time.   It would be one of the hardest because we sometimes just sit there and we sit there and then I know me and Nick, we try to mess with the quarterback by, we look at the quarterback and just sit there and just stare at him the whole time while he's looking at us to see if we're going to move or anything like that. 
But by the time he thinks it's going to be something, we totally change the whole front.

Q.   Do you think that will be a key part of Thursday night's game, especially with them having a relatively inexperienced quarterback in terms of just the confusion that you guys can create there? 
LANDON COLLINS:   Yes, always.   When you're messing with a quarterback that just got in the game and playing a defense like ours, definitely it's going to be competition between them.   Because we don't know what we're going to throw at them and what we're coming with.

Q.   You talked about the first couple of series just trying to feel out Cardale Jones, what are the keys, what are the things you look for early in a game to try to get an indication of what your strategy is going to be against him later on?
LANDON COLLINS:   Just basically with the formations they like to be in, couple series, and then with the type of plays they run is going to be, is it more pass or more running at the time. 
And then from there on we go from the line of scrimmage to him, to see what's going on.

Q.   What about how he reacts or facial or body language, do you ever try to‑‑ are you able to see any of that?
LANDON COLLINS:   We pick up on the body language.   We can't see his face, most likely his body language and you see his body language, you can tell which plays are coming.

Q.   With body language, do you get an indication of plays or is it also an indication of confidence?
LANDON COLLINS:   I would say plays.   Everybody gain confidence sooner or later, you gain confidence different ways.   It could be an emotional play, could be a prior play.   So we definitely know just play off what he does.

Q.   Spoke to your mom said she might be the most famous mom in college football.   She's got a rank up there.   She said you've been overwhelmed. 
LANDON COLLINS:   Oh definitely, at home, a lot of people that asked me to come.

Q.   Let's talk for a moment about what you saw when you started to break down the way Ohio State plays offensively and what your big keys are going to be?
LANDON COLLINS:   Basically with the offensive, we've got a new quarterback and basically we're going to try to confuse him and do our best ability to do that and just break him down, break him down with what they like to do from the last game because it's a different quarterback.   He's a more passing type quarterback that we see.   And got a tremendous arm.   So once he try to get the ball out there, try to get it to receivers they're going to try to do something spectacular.

Q.   When you transition from the prep and grind from week‑to‑week and now you had the luxury of maybe spending 14 or 15 practices getting ready for this game, was there anything that stood out in your mind, was there an opportunity for you to do a little more in terms of preparation than you would if you were just getting ready for the next game? 
LANDON COLLINS:   Definitely.   I mean, workouts, work out even more for the game and you got more time to watch film and stuff like that.   So basically you have nothing but time to figure out what the offense like to do, formation‑wise, and when you get to the quarterback, with that much time, just give you the best ability to know what you like to do when the confidence gets built up.   And like to read what he reads.

Q.   We talk all the time with coach, just finished up with us and he talks about the process.   Well, he can tell people like us that aren't in it what the process is all about and I'm interested from Landon Collins' perspective what does the process mean to you?
LANDON COLLINS:   The process for Alabama?   I mean, perfection.   I mean, you just work your tail off and try to be the best player you can be.   That's it.

Q.   How hungry are you? 
LANDON COLLINS:   I'm starving.   Starving.

Q.   I wasn't talking about breakfast.   I was talking about wanting to get this victory. 
LANDON COLLINS:   Yeah, starving to get this victory, always.

Q.   Seems to put a lot of value on the pinkie swear.   She brought it up about making you do it before you signed your papers and said I'll probably make him do it again if he's going to jump to the NFL because I want him to get a degree.   Has she brought that up to you?
LANDON COLLINS:   She probably did.   I forgot if she did.   I don't know.   I forgot about it right now.

Q.   She seems to think that's being the first person from the family to finish and all that kind of stuff.   That seems like it's something that really matters to her. 
LANDON COLLINS:   Definitely, because the first person on her side of the family to get a degree and have the opportunity to come home with a degree.   So definitely it always matters to her.

Q.   What's your major?
LANDON COLLINS:   Mass communication.

Q.   What do you want to do beyond football?
LANDON COLLINS:   Be a broadcaster on ESPN.

Q.   That whole thing at the under armor game and all I'm sure you've been asked about it a million times.   What do you feel like her take on your career at Alabama is now, now that all‑‑ it might be behind you, might be the last time you play in New Orleans as a college player?
LANDON COLLINS:   Between me and her, it's a great experience.   But I told her at the end of the day I'm going to do what I said I was going to do and we always kept that promise.   Pinkie promise I will do what I need to do.   You don't have to worry about me being on the sideline for three years, I'm going to be on the field doing my thing, and that's what she said.   Pinkie promise that I'll be all right with it.   Ever since then she's been all right with it. 
(Indiscernible) playing and supporting me.

Q.   She still seem convinced you and Gerald would play if you went to LSU?
LANDON COLLINS:   Yes.

Q.   Do you think that's what would have happened?
LANDON COLLINS:   If I went to LSU that's Gerald would have come with me.

Q.   She tells you if you came to Alabama you stay all four years?
LANDON COLLINS:   Definitely.

Q.   Have you made that public?
LANDON COLLINS:   That's between me and us.

Q.   That would be a weird situation.   But I guess playing a second year with your brother would be pretty cool?
LANDON COLLINS:   That would always be cool.   I miss my brother definitely.   Miss playing with him.   When we played together I knew the side he was on he was on the other side protecting.

Q.   You come down here and play with him?
LANDON COLLINS:   I don't know.   Got a couple tweets from him, don't come back to New Orleans.   That was all up to the Saints.

Q.   Jerrod Bierbower, Dublin, Columbus, are you surprised that an Ohio guy would come down here to walk on?
LANDON COLLINS:   I didn't know he was from Ohio.   That's surprising.   I think he just love the school and the atmosphere and wanted to win.   I tell you that much.   But Ohio State have a winning program, too, but I don't know you just probably want to be with tradition. 
I have to ask him that myself why he did that, because I didn't know he was from Ohio.   Definitely ask him that.

Q.   What's he mean to the team?
LANDON COLLINS:   Means a lot.   His role is to‑‑ he plays scout team for our offense and to make the offense better.   And that's his role.   He's doing a fantastic job over there and he does an amazing job.   And he plays hard every down.   We call him a head hunter.   When he hits, he hits.   Definitely.   He can put his shoulder down.   And that's what he does.   He's done a fantastic job of what he do.

Q.   What's he like?
LANDON COLLINS:   He's a great guy.   Fun to be around.   He's very talkative to me sometimes.   But just cool.   Cool the way he acts and laid back.   Great person to know.

Q.   Obviously you haven't pumped him about information from Ohio State, because you didn't know he was from Ohio?
LANDON COLLINS:   I'm going to get on him when I get over there.

Q.   Got a lot of Louisiana guys on this team.   How much have you taken those guys under your wings?
LANDON COLLINS:   Oh, I took all of them, you know.   Since me and Denzel got here.

Q.   You all came in together?
LANDON COLLINS:   Yeah.   We all came in together.   All the Louisiana guys, they put us on recruiting, and then when they come in and they declare and they want to come here and come in the school, definitely want to take them under our wing, because they like to be around somebody they know from the state and they got a great understanding from. 
That's what we give them.   You ask all them guys over there, they listen to us before anybody, because we're from the state and we understand more than like any other kind of player.

Q.   What's Cam been like?
LANDON COLLINS:   Cam's been a fantastic player.   We always talk trash, especially when I'm going to come out to the edge, and Denzel come out, and they talk trash and stuff like that, coming up on the defensive end.   Fantastic player.   Never knew Alabama will have a freshman lineman on the field, he does a fantastic job what he do.   And showing the world he can block anybody.

Q.   You've only got one film to look at, the Ohio State quarterback, how many films do you typically look at on a quarterback, and is that any kind of advantage or disadvantage?   You've only got one?
LANDON COLLINS:   We do the film.   I watch the film, his tendencies, what his motions is, and stuff like that.   It's a disadvantage to only have one film. 
But we've got a lot of plays on him.   And that's the best thing, because I mean we only had like 30 plays, you can't really pick up stuff on, and the teams come out, they get a lot of reps and easy to get ready for oncoming games.   We picked up on a few things.   And they haven't changed the offense, the way how we looked at it. 

Q.   Is it in the back of your mind, you're able to rattle this guy a little because he's not that experienced?
LANDON COLLINS:   Yeah, we definitely feel we can rattle him.   Not going to be able to pick up on what our defense is doing at the time, so definitely able to rattle.

Q.   The running back, Ezekiel Elliott, what do you see on tape about him?
LANDON COLLINS:   Strong runner.   He runs behind his pads, definitely.   He reads his line, blockers are in front of him.   And he just follows them.

Q.   The Louisiana/Alabama thing, what's the most creative thing somebody said to you from Louisiana about all the mess, all the controversy and everything, anything creative make you laugh or has it been stuff you don't want to‑‑
LANDON COLLINS:   It's stuff basically I can't say.   It's too vulgar.   Other than that it's been a lot of stuff that's vulgar, always made me laugh.

Q.   You just brush it off?
LANDON COLLINS:   Just brush it off because it's my opportunity.   It's my life.   And now I got to get the experience, they are just mad that I didn't go to their school or they're not in my shoes.

Q.   You've got as much familiarity with New Orleans as anybody on this team being from here.   How do you describe how the trip here is different than the one you all took a year ago?
LANDON COLLINS:   It's just more of a business type trip because we always been here and everybody, experiences you see already, has been on the team. 
All of us growing up and we have an opportunity to play for a ring.   And we're trying to play for another game.   So it's not like this is their last game.   It's like a new season, got to play for this game and get ready for the next game.   That's about it.

Q.   What will the last 48 hours in the lead‑up to this game be like for you?   How do you keep yourself calm?   How do you gauge that level of anxiety?
LANDON COLLINS:   Watching film, gaining my confidence, talking to my coaches, reading over the plays and the offensive scheme they run and doing homework what they like to do.   That's how I build my confidence.   I got all that anxiety that I have in my system.

Q.   Ohio State's quarterback Cardale Jones in your sights, I'm sure.   How much film have you watched on a guy who really has only put a game and a half on tape?
LANDON COLLINS:   A lot.   Going back to both of those games that he played in, a lot to pick up on what his tendencies are and what kind of game plan they have for him and stuff like that.   Just pick up on any kind of key concepts that, the way he like to read, where he throw the ball, where he's going to be with it.   That kind of stuff. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT