BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2015
Alexander Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Alex, lovely to see you challenging again.   Can you express your relief and happiness to be back in this position?
ALEXANDER NOREN:   Yeah, it's really nice.   Especially at this course, playing well here is fantastic.   It's not an easy course, and the crowds are great.   It's great. 

Q.   This time last year, you were playing only two events in 2014 after five months off with wrist surgery.   How problematic was it for you and how concerned were you?
ALEXANDER NOREN:   Well, I just tried to play, and then as soon as I played about two weeks in a row, I couldn't play anymore.   So it was very‑‑ I knew I was going to come back but it was a question of when, and it didn't seem to happen for me.   It was a little tough period, but it's only golf.   But it's really nice to be back, yeah. 

Q.   You've had some great results, not least a runner‑up in Dubai early on this year.   How ready are you to win again?   You've already got three European Tour titles.   Do you feel ready now? 
ALEXANDER NOREN:   Well, you're always thinking about it.   But now it's looking like I've got a long way in this tournament to win, but anything can happen on Sunday.   But it would be nice.

Q.   How good was that today to move yourself up there? 
ALEXANDER NOREN:   I played really nice, especially off the tee and gave myself a lot of looks from the fairways, which is nice on this course. 
Yeah, the only thing I needed was a few more birdies.   I had my chances but really, it's not that easy to hole that many putts. 

Q.   I get the sense that it's galling, frustrating on the way you've finished after moving into position and not quite kicking on?
ALEXANDER NOREN:   I hit it close on 16 and 18 and then missed a great chance on 17.   So those three, but yesterday, I birdied 17, 18.   But it's nice to play steady again and have chances, which I had today. 

Q.   And it's worth stressing that there is that chance for the final day, because you are in that kind of position that if you can take advantage early on, others falter, you're right in the mix?
ALEXANDER NOREN:   Today, it was a little different with the wind.   1 and 3 played easier.   It's like, yeah, you can make a lot of birdies here, and it's not easy to just go around and shoot 3‑under for the leaders, like you said.   A lot of people has a chance I think. 

Q.   You've won some very big championships.   Does this feel any different as the Flagship Event or do you treat it just the same? 
ALEXANDER NOREN:   No, I've always treated to it different actually.   I have respect for the course and for the history and stuff.   So maybe I shouldn't treat it like that.   It's just kind of how it is.   The yeah, it feels a little bigger.   When you play the course, you get to know where you should go and how you can play it aggressively and defensively and all that.   It's even bigger the first time you play when you don't really know the course that well and it's a lot of people here.   I've played a lot of events with big crowds and I love it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT