BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 27, 2013
Alexander Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PAUL SYMES:   Well, Alex, very well played, that birdie at the last was a great way to end a very pleasing round.   
ALEXANDER NOREN:   Yeah, it was a nice way to finish, and it was a long, tough day, a lot of wind.   But my short game I think held it together, and I didn't have that many chances but I took care of them when I got chances for birdies and made the important pars when I needed.   So it was a big fight day.   
PAUL SYMES:   You have a decent record here; what is it in particular that you like so much about the place?   
ALEXANDER NOREN:   Well, it tests your whole game, and you get a lot of wedges, you get a lot of long irons.   I don't know, it's tricky greens.   I don't know what it is, but I played well here two years ago and then I came back last year and thought I played well last year; why not this year again, and kind of the same thing.   It's easier for a player to come back when you've done something good in the past I think.   You know you can score well around the track and good memories is always nice to have with you.   
PAUL SYMES:   You maybe didn't drive the ball as well as you would have liked today; is that something you'll try to work out on the range tomorrow morning?   
ALEXANDER NOREN:   Yeah, I tried to go through my warmup routine like always, and it's probably more‑‑ especially with the wind, sometimes you choose the wrong shots because you're more‑‑ you like some shots.   Just try to have a better round tomorrow off the tee, and I think I hit a lot of good shots, as well, so just try to remember those.   
   
 Q.   So I understand that your performance especially is excellent around the green, so you have tough green play I think.   Since you have been mostly playing on the European Tour, now that you're here on the Korean tour, I think that you have a very good short game.   So what are the secrets behind your excellent short game and what would you site as your biggest advantage?   
ALEXANDER NOREN:   Well, early in my career, I had Pete Cowen as a coach, and he's fabulous with the short game.   He's helped me a lot, especially with the chipping and bunker play and pitching.   And then now I'm with Viktor Gustavsson, my new coach, since the last two years.   He's also very good with the short game.   
I train a lot of short game.   Well, it's just‑‑ I don't know what it is, but I train a lot of short game.   I train a lot of putting.   You know, I need to putt well sometimes when you're not driving it great.   I think it's a balance.   
   
 Q.   So when playing the short game on the greens at Blackstone and when you're playing the short game on The European Tour, what would be the difference and what would be the difference when you approach those greens?   
ALEXANDER NOREN:   It's very similar.   I'd say we use‑‑ mostly in Europe, it's the same greens.   Maybe a little bit more rough around the greens in Europe, the courses we play.   
Otherwise, very similar style.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us about the makeup of your club set, and also I notice that some of the players carry one extra or two extra clubs other than 14 that they regularly use.   So is there anything special that you brought?  
ALEXANDER NOREN:   Well, my setup, I carry four wedges, irons up to 4‑iron, hybrid, 3‑wood and driver.   Then I always bring an extra putter, extra 60‑degree wedge.   I carry an extra 3‑wood and an extra hybrid and an extra driver just in case, so just in case one breaks during the plane flight or something.   
   
 Q.   You won three times on The European Tour so far and since 2011 you have yet to grab another trophy.   Your biggest chance is tomorrow; is there anything special that you have in mind?  
ALEXANDER NOREN:   I'm just trying to play well tomorrow, and it's going to be a really fun day.   I haven't been in the lead in a long time, and I've had some good finishes, but it will be a lot of fun.   But I'm just trying to play good and make birdies and try to make more birdies an the other ones.   
   
 Q.   So I've noticed that during the past three days, you recorded birdie on the 14th hole and also during the two days, you recorded birdie on hole No.4, 6 and 7, and you rarely have any bogeys.   So tomorrow, you mentioned how you're going to score more birdies than other players; so if you were to say for certain holes that you have to score birdies and for certain holes you have to score pars, what would those holes be?  
ALEXANDER NOREN:   Well, it's good to take advantage of the wedge holes, the shorter holes, to make birdies.   The par 5s, you've got a few par 5, like 18.   Yeah, it's also about not making many bogeys.   
But it's hard to say, it depends all on the weather and the wind and just tried to hit your wedges within three or four meters and get a lot of chances and maybe on the tougher holes, the longer holes, play more for the middle of the green for a par and maybe a birdie slips in.   
PAUL SYMES:   Thanks very much, Alex, have a great day.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT