BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 26, 2013
Alexander Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Great finish.   
ALEX NOREN:   You know, we got a break there when it started raining and my game wasn't too sharp in the middle there.   But then got a break, got some food and then three birdies.   It's a nice feeling now.   
   
 Q.   Well, just goes to show the value of fighting, because you were definitely scrambling and you didn't drop any shots and you kept yourself in the game.   
ALEX NOREN:   I started pretty good.   I played okay on our front nine, which was the back nine today.   Then I had some chances, but thought I was playing pretty good, and then a few bad shots.   
But especially here, you know, it's swirling wind, it's tough, and then there are a lot of opportunities.   I know just looking forward to the last two rounds, when you're scrambling and there's always birdies.   
   
 Q.   They always talk about horses for courses and you certainly seem to be a horse for this course.   
ALEX NOREN:   I like it.   It suits my eye.   You can take on some shots and there's some holes that are really tough and some easier ones.   I don't know what I like about it, but it's just, you know, when you play well, you've been here before, it's easier, and you think, I like this course.   
   
 Q.   And the great thing is your short game is looking sharp, some lovely bunker shots.   
ALEX NOREN:   Yeah, that's what you've got to do, if you miss the greens and you can scramble, all of a sudden you get a birdie putt, it's a bonus.   But if you miss those easy up‑and‑downs, it's tough to shoot a low score.   
   
 Q.   It looks as though you've got the good side of the draw now.   The people going out later are going to have to play a lot of holes tomorrow.   
ALEX NOREN:   And a lot of wind.   We played the last four in a lot of wind, but they are mostly downwind.   So, it's tough.   It's a lot tougher, especially even downwind, we thought 9 was playing downwind and it wasn't.   It's very tough because all the holes are in valleys.   It's tricky.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT