ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 14, 2012
Alexander Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   14‑under par, I guess you'll be frustrated you should be in a better position?  
ALEXANDER NOREN:   Yeah, I played probably 16 great holes and two bad ones.   But that's golf, and I started out great, played the first 11 perfect I thought, and then after the bogey, lost my ball in the bushes.   It's very frustrating now, but looking at it, three shots off the lead in a great tournament, I'm trying my best tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Do you think that most of the players will agree that conditions have been fairly good and fairly benign; you can play in far worse conditions than these?  
ALEXANDER NOREN:   Oh yeah, these are the best conditions you can play in.   We had a little rain today but only for a couple of holes and it's probably the best I've ever played weather‑wise in Scotland.  
   
 Q.   17‑under leads and you're 14‑under; what total do you think might win this championship tomorrow?  
ALEXANDER NOREN:   I think if you get over 20, it's looking good.   You know you've got a chance.   And see if the wind picks up tomorrow.   
Francesco played fantastic.   I don't think I've ever seen anybody play that well throughout 18 holes.   So it's going to be tough to beat him.   But I think everybody's going to try their best.  
   
 Q.   You certainly bounced back from the triple today.   
ALEXANDER NOREN:   Yeah, well, the thing is that you can understand your game, and I hit my driver ten times better today than I have the previous days.   I'm really happy about that.   You know if you hit one bad, all you have to do is try my best even when I hit it bad, so try to get back in it.   And especially here, you've got so many birdie chances.  
Yeah, I played probably even better after that than I did before that.   
   
 Q.   If you are playing well, there's chances and if you have one slightly errant shot, you can get punished.   
ALEXANDER NOREN:   Yeah, you can get pup issued, and on a lot of holes you don't, and there, I did.   It was a wayward shot.   But, you know, it is what it is.   So you've got to keep fighting it.   
   
 Q.   And I appreciate what you say about Molinari, if Francesco carries on the way he's going, but you know that you can pick up those shots.   
ALEXANDER NOREN:   Yeah, it's all about the putting and the short game out here, and so three shots tomorrow is not a whole lot.   But got to play three shots better than he does.   That's the only tough part.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT