BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2015
Alexander Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   67 today, how did you enjoy that?
ALEX NOREN:   Very much, very much.   That was nice.   I didn't feel that great on the driving range this morning.   I don't know, sometimes you don't feel that good, but I started‑‑ I played really well after about fourth or fifth hole there.   Kept hitting every fairway almost and every green and it makes it a lot easier.

Q.   We've been talking about the stats on this golf course.   As a player, do you get through the first through holes, level par, and then you can have a go at it? 
ALEX NOREN:   Yeah, it's all about the driving on the first couple, 1 and 3.   If you hit the driver well, it's not that bad but it's just those bunkers are well in place.   Yeah, it's like you say, then you've got some easier par 4s.   If you hit‑‑ you get a lot of chances with the wedge, especially today when it's better wind, less wind, and maybe easier pins today, as well, I don't know. 

Q.   You've been playing well but you've been out for a while fairly recently.   Tell us what that was about. 
ALEX NOREN:   Well, I was out last year for a wrist injury and came back in January, so I've been playing since then and it's been nice.   The wrist is fine. 

Q.   How hard was it to sit out?
ALEX NOREN:   Well, I tried to come back and play, so I was always trying, so it wasn't like now I'm going to have a whole year off, I don't know what to do. 

Q.   How difficult is this golf course?   Are you enjoying it?   Has this given you confidence, shooting 67 second round, tied fourth at the moment.   Does your mental attitude change for the weekend? 
ALEX NOREN:   Yes, the more you play it, you know where to kind of hit it.   Like a hole like 9, you can hit it more right when it's this kind of wind, and the fairways gets bigger, and maybe you play away from some bunkers.   Yeah, you learn and obviously it's fun to make some birdies out here because it is quite tough.   I think it's quite tough. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT