ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 6, 2012
Alexander Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  ALEXANDER NOREN:   It was tough in the beginning, and it was tough the first nine holes, and then we got really lucky on the back nine.   Then took advantage of it.   No wind pretty much on the back nine. 
And I hit a lot of fairways and a lot of greens, and then got a lot of good putts on the back nine coming in, and so it was a steady round, and really pleased. 

Q.   And yet even though the weather has improved, those last few holes are very difficult, so to pick up those red figures, I know the last didn't work out, but that's satisfying, isn't it? 
ALEXANDER NOREN:   It is.   You still have to hit good shots, and especially 12, 13, 14, 15 and 17, 18.   It's such a good course.   Every shot, you have to be focused. 
So it's really fun being out there, and then especially when you get some birdies going.

Q.   What was your state of mind both before and after the break? 
ALEXANDER NOREN:   I knew it was going to be a tough day, and it was a lot of fun, practiced the short game.   I knew it was going to be tough to hit a lot of greens.   It was really windy when they called us in, and it was quite tough.   But then we got lucky. 
But then, yeah, I knew that it was a good state of mind. 

Q.   Far too late in the day to be talking about a round of golf isn't it, really. 
ALEXANDER NOREN:   Yeah, but I'm staying on site, so just go to bed.

Q.   And your position on the leaderboard?   That's not happened for a little while?
ALEXANDER NOREN:   It feels great.   It felt like it's been good since probably we got into the Malaysian tournament, started to feeling better, showing some good results. 
You know, I worked a lot differently the last few months, and I feel like it's paying off a little bit.   I'm just hoping the scores will continue to show that. 

Q.   What happened on the last? 
ALEXANDER NOREN:   I hit it into those group of trees and then in the water.   So I just did a drop.   Couldn't go for the green.   Wedged out and didn't make the putt. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT