OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 24, 2011
Robert Karlsson
Alexander Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  ALEXANDER NOREN:   I started off not playing very good at all, and maybe the first three holes, I was okay, but then Robert played great first‑‑ well, he played great all the way around I think, and I just had to step in on a few occasions where he could have made par or I made par.   
But he played great, he made a lot of birdies, and it was a fun day.   After hole No. 8, then we started playing better, giving both chances and better drives, both in play all the time.   
   
 Q.   And you did step in, you weighed in with two birdies yourself.   
ALEXANDER NOREN:   Yeah, it was a lot better on the back, and especially when you've got‑‑ when we switched the order around, he hit first and I think stuff like that makes a big difference.   Both of us take responsibility instead of the experienced guy hits last and he's always going to be in the middle.   
But you know, it's better to have both guys.  
   
 Q.   How is it to play in this format alongside a player, rather than all of the onus just on yourself?   
ALEXANDER NOREN:   It's different.   It's different.   You play for somebody else; here, you play for your country.   So it's a big difference like that.   
It's both‑‑ you know, it makes it so much more exciting and also a bit more pressure on yourself, or myself more than anybody else probably.   It's different.   
   
 Q.   And Robert, already a World Cup winner and played this format that many times.   As the Junior partner, do you bow to his greater knowledge?  
ALEXANDER NOREN:   You've got to.   I don't have any experience, other than a few team events.   He does a lot of strategies that I never even thought of because I haven't played, and so it's nice to play like this.  
   
 Q.   Is it something you've been looking forward to, representing your country?   
ALEXANDER NOREN:   Huge, yes, I love it.   I was really proud when I got the invitation from Robert, and yeah, I've been looking forward to this for a long time.   
   
 Q.   Seeing the flag go up last night‑‑  
ALEXANDER NOREN:   Yes, and when you see all of the past winners‑‑ it's nice, you don't get this a lot.   I looked at Per‑Ulrik‑‑ when you think of World Cup, I think of Robert and Henrik who almost won last time but then you look, it's good.   
   
 Q.   That's a pretty good start today isn't it?   
ROBERT KARLSSON:   It's hard to say.   We have not played around here before so it's hard to know what's good and what isn't.   I think this golf course feels a bit harder to score on than the one we played in Shenzhen, because the par 5s are more difficult.   
And in general I think we did pretty well.   We missed a couple chances, a bit angry about that, but generally we were pretty good.  
   
 Q.   And Alex is a new partner for you, isn't he.   So how are things working out there?   
ROBERT KARLSSON:   It's good, we played together in the Royal Trophy in match play, so slightly different, but I know him well.   So it's good.   
   
 Q.   Feeling a good team spirit out there as well?   
ROBERT KARLSSON:   It's good.   It's always a bit difficult the first day, but it's always a great format and it's good fun to play.   
   
 Q.   And your personal record is fantastic, won it 2008, runners up two years ago; does that give you extra confidence?   
ROBERT KARLSSON:   Yeah, obviously it's a fun format.   I enjoy playing this.   It's a nice bonus end of the season when you're in it, it's fantastic and I enjoy it.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT