WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 3, 2011
Alexander Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. That's a very nice start, isn't it. 
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Yeah, it was fantastic. It felt so much better to come into this week and last week, and just I like this course from two years ago, and I just holed a few putts early. It was very nice, a very nice round, great company. It was good. 

 Q. So what's made the difference between this week and last? 
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Just you can be a little bit more free. You've got to hit the fairways, but if you don't hit the fairways, there's still a chance. 
 I've practised for two days now a lot, and a lot on just getting the swing a little bit more in sync and trying to hit a little bit more draws and fade. Last week, I was just hitting one-dimensional and it's quite tough around that place.

 Q. In a way, does it help having that huge challenge at Valderrama one week and then knowing that you had to have an accuracy coming out here and it frees you up a little? 
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Yeah, this place is not easy, but last week, there was a lot of birdies last week, but it's also tough to keep making pars. Yeah, so it's good to play those tough courses, same as this one. You've got to play well and good focus. 

 Q. How did you get on two years ago? 
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Well, I think I finished 19th, which was -- I was happy at the time. It's just I like this place. It's good to play against all of the best in the world. Your focus goes up a little.

 Q. And a lot has happened in that two years, so presumably you have greater demands on yourself?
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Yeah, you think in two years you can improve a lot. Well, I have improved, but it's just when you come here you're still a little bit nervous and you're still anxious how it's going to go. It's great to start off like this.

 Q. When do those nerves ease? Actually when you've played the first shot? 
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Yeah, just I want to do so well, because I want to play against these guys all the time. 
 So, well, once you're out on the course and warming up it's easy enough but you're a little more butterflies in the mornings than usual.

 Q. Do you still look on the range like when you might have done when you first were out here?
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Not as much as before, no. 

 Q. Your performances this year, does that make you feel like you belong with the world's best? 
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Yeah, it's just that I need to play a bit more in these events and in the Majors. Because you can play in like the top European tournaments, and so I think that's the next step for me. So I've got to play and see that I can compete with them on tough courses. 
 You know, I did play okay at the PGA and the U.S. Open, but on the toughest courses the best get better. So you've got to play -- you've got to start playing these tough courses and against these fields.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT