SAAB WALES OPEN
June 5, 2011
Alexander Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MICHAEL GIBBONS: Alex, very nice smile there. Many congratulations, Saab Wales Open Champion, beautiful trophy with you. Tell us how you're feeling at the moment.
 ALEXANDER NOREN: It was so like kind of empty when I finally made it, because it was a tough day, and you can't really relax anywhere on this golf course. Even from the get-go, 1, it's just really tough. And it plays, even the wedges can spin back in the water, and it's tricky; they want to trick us here.
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: You had a four-shot lead at one point, did you notice that? 
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Yeah, I noticed that. I've never had that before. Well, I kept on playing, but it's always tough. 
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: It's your second victory on The European Tour. It must mean a lot to you. 
 ALEXANDER NOREN: It proves to me that I can still win. And I thought, you know, no win last year, with a win two years ago, and then knowing last year, and not getting good results for a while there. This feels great; that I could go on top leading after two rounds and still leading after four. 

 Q. After your first win, a lot of people thought you would kick straight on and maybe even challenge for The Ryder Cup here. Can you put your finger on perhaps why that didn't happen?
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Well, honestly, my game was good enough for one week, and then one other week there, and I had a few good finishes. But I really believe that my game wasn't good enough to get into The Ryder Cup. 
 This year has started so much better and I can feel that I can compete with some of those guys. You know, with a few good finishes already this year, it feels that I can do that. I really didn't believe it in 2009 or 2010, so my game, it's gotten better since then. 

 Q. Have you got enough left for tomorrow? You're definitely going to play tomorrow?
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Yeah. Yeah. 

 Q. No celebration? 
 ALEXANDER NOREN: I'll do it on Tuesday. But yeah, I'll play. I want to play in The Open. 
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Could be a triple celebration. 

 Q. Are you travelling up this evening?
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Yeah. 

 Q. Are you still working with Pete Cowen? 
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Yeah, I started working with Pete, and also with his assistant, Mike Walker, probably four months -- probably three, four months ago. 
 We work a lot on the whole game, and we really have, you know -- before, I've always loved the technique, and now we are trying to make my whole game more solid and not just look at hitting it straight, but maybe hit it the right distance or putting better or chipping better.
 So they have helped me a lot, and it's just a great feeling of having them there, and I like how they work. It's very relaxing and it's the same with my physio. He's just there and we do the job and see how it goes at the end of the week ask then we continue. It's a nice relationship.

 Q. Have they changed anything? 
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Changed anything? 

 Q. Pete and Mike; have they changed anything in your swing? 
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Well, we are always trying to -- well, I have a tendency to get it under the plane, if we want to talk technical terms. But we always try to just get better at fading the ball I would say. If I can hit a strong fade, if I can do that, I can play good. It's more that our goal is to see what works for me and try to create that. 

 Q. You said a lot of it was mental, kicking on with your game, when you see that many Europeans, 1, 2, 3 in the world and so many high up the World Rankings, and you've played with them regularly, did that sort of encourage you that you are that far short of that standard?
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Yeah, it's great to see, and especially Kaymer has been probably I've spent the most time with out of those. 
 It's great to see how they work at their game, because when I was younger, I was looking at TV, looking at Tiger and thinking that he was super human. And then you see Kaymer, we hang out with all the time, and you see that he can create the same, winning majors and being up there all the time. It's great. 

 Q. Where is your girlfriend at the moment?
 ALEXANDER NOREN: She's in Sweden. 

 Q. Keep in constant touch?
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Yeah, she had to come on -- what do you call it, for her sister's wedding? The stag party? Hen party. 
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: So she's been drunk all weekend.
 ALEXANDER NOREN: No, her sister's pregnant. (Laughter).

 Q. You like photography; are you going to go out and take some pictures of your favourite holes after this?
 ALEXANDER NOREN: No, I haven't brought my camera out for a while. I'm more interested in hitting good shots now (laughing). 

 Q. You're the second Swede after Robert Karlsson to win the title here. Has he been any help to you along in your career?
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Robert, yeah. We have both -- well, he moved away from Monaco now, but we spent some time down there. He's very encouraging, and also tries to put in some pointers of maybe what he did early in his career, and what I can improve on. He's a good help, a good help. 
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Alex, again, many congratulations, Saab Wales Open Champion, 2011. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT