SAAB WALES OPEN
June 4, 2011
Alexander Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You started the day leading by one and you ended it leading by one. How do you feel about your play today?  
 ALEXANDER NOREN: I thought it was so much tougher than yesterday, especially around the greens. It was the same direction as off the tees and into the greens, you kind of just had to add and take off the stronger wind.   
 But on the greens, some putts played really slow and some played really fast, and I had a little bit of trouble getting the pace right. So it's a bit more of a struggle than yesterday.  
  
  Q. What about the pin positions today? Our commentators said they were really difficult considering the conditions.   
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Yeah, if you play away from a pin that's by a water hazard, that's understandable. You can play down the ridge and it flies right by the ridge. It's a bit too tough at some places when you hit a good shot and you've played away from the pin, and you think you have an easy putt from there; and all of a sudden you go off and it's downhill, downwind and it's quite tough.  
  
  Q. You told us yesterday you're trying to be nice to yourself, so when you do make a mistake you're trying to the to be too hard on yourself. How was that today, such a difficult day.   
 ALEXANDER NOREN: It was good. I was happy with my long game and my putting proved better on the back nine.   
 But yeah, I'm just trying to maybe treat myself a little bit -- thinking I'm better than I actually think I am. Just try to say, well, you can do better the next hole and try to take the positive.  
 Like I said yesterday, there are a lot of chances on the back nine, so if you just get through the front nine playing good, 3-over like I was today, but I still finished it off.  
  
  Q. Your thoughts on going into tomorrow in this position.   
 ALEXANDER NOREN: I was nervous going into today, and had high expectations. It's going to be a tough day tomorrow, as well. I really enjoyed it today. I really enjoyed every shot out there.   
  
  Q. Thoughts overall?  
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Well, you could see there was more wind than the first two days, and I thought I played nicely, and hit a lot of greens and a lot of -- from fairways, and it was just a matter of, you know, staying patient, because the pins were tougher today than yesterday, and you know, even though you played away, you had some easy putts for birdies, it was really tough.   
  
  Q. Proud of yourself the way you hung in?   
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Yeah, I was. I just kept on playing, and my caddie said the same. It's tough out there. You will get some chances on the downwind holes and just try to not get upset. Just try to think positive and there will be some birdies.   
  
  Q. The man alongside you admits he did get upset, and seeing Graeme McDowell nearly fall away, did that affect you?  
 ALEXANDER NOREN: No, he played like every shot mattered as much as if he had started well. So I like that in a player when you play only two balls, and it's not fair when somebody gives up, but he didn't give up. He can have a good round tomorrow and move up again.  
  
  Q. So you were able to just concentrate on your own game and keep focussed?  
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Yeah, of course.   
  
  Q. And you find yourself in a lovely position one ahead going into the final round.   
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Yeah, that's very nice. I like that.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT