SAAB WALES OPEN
June 3, 2011
Alexander Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Good, steady round became an exceptional round with four birdies in the last five holes, tell us about the one on 14, because that's brutal today?  
 ALEXANDER NOREN: 14, that was probably my two best shots in a row there, because that tee shot isn't easy, and then I had a 6-iron or 5-iron into the green, and I went for the 6. I hit a great shot. Tough pin.  
  
  Q. Give us a sense of conditions out there, be obviously breezy, the flags look difficult. Tell us about that.   
 ALEXANDER NOREN: It plays so long. It's just like you used to hit a lot of wedges, but today, 7-iron, 6-iron, 5-iron, and it just keeps on going. You can play pretty safe, but you'll have long putts, and difficult putts, and if you want to make birdies, it's pretty tough.  
  
  Q. You qualified for the U.S. Open on Monday. How excited are you about the trip to Congressional?   
 ALEXANDER NOREN: I've always dreamed of playing there, and I'm so happy. So happy.  
  
  Q. Three times in the top 11 in your last five starts, a couple of missed cuts, as well, how are you feeling about your game coming in here?  
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Well, I didn't feel great about it at Wentworth, but it was so penalising. Every shot, even though it was an okay shot, you would get in trouble.   
 It felt great to play good on Monday to get into here, and you know, it's such a like an energy boost getting to the U.S. Open. Here, I haven't practised as much as I used to. I kind of just try to play golf more and I try to have a different attitude out there and miss it on the right side and try to be miss to myself.   
  
  Q. How are the conditions?  
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Same wind but stronger. The front nine played tougher. The back nine played probably as tough as yesterday but with some more wind, but you get a lot more cross-winds on the front nine. So I'm very happy.   
  
  Q. So when you woke this morning, beautiful sunshine, warmth, you thought this was going to be easy, and it wasn't?  
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Well, you've got to place the ball in the fairway, and then you've got a long shot into the green. It's a lot longer than we usually play. It's probably like Wentworth length.   
 But I'm trying to be nice to myself. You know, even if I miss a shot, I'm trying to just see the positive and go from that. Yeah, it felt probably easier than it looked.   
  
  Q. You probably remained positive, knowing that there are chances on the way home, albeit difficult ones, 14, for instance?  
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Yeah, that was great. That gave me the real up, because I was hitting it great on the front nine but 10, 11, 12 wasn't too good, and then I got a really good shot into 14. I managed to putt it in.   
 So then 15 in, with this wind, it's a lot easier.   
  
  Q. Did I hear you say you're not practising as much at the moment?  
 ALEXANDER NOREN: No, I'm trying to relax this week and see what happens.   
  
  Q. You loved to practise.   
 ALEXANDER NOREN: I love practicing and it hurts not going to the driving range. But it's just -- it was such a long week, even though I missed the cut at Wentworth, I practised a lot on the weekend to try to get ready for the qualifying and then 36 holes, and then driving down here, and then I've got another qualifying on Monday. So trying to just do the work on the course and then relax.   
  
  Q. Does it tell you something? Does it tell you you've got that ability and you don't always have to work at it time and time again?  
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Yeah, definitely. But it's just hard sometimes to, you know, not go down there, because it's always something.   
  
  Q. What are your thoughts on the score and the position on the leaderboard and what might happen this afternoon?   
 ALEXANDER NOREN: I think probably somebody will get to 9-, 10-under, or more even. Good ball-strikers around here are favoured. Peter Hanson has a good chance this afternoon, even though it's windy. We'll see.   
  
  Q. I take it you're getting more and more used to being up there and the feeling that it has and the way to handle nerves?  
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Yeah, this is the most fun thing I know. I want to get up here all the time. And it gets easier every time.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT