OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 1, 2015
Alexander Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Have you missed this while you were injured?  
ALEX NOREN:   Very much.   It was an amazing day, amazing week.   I missed it so much, feeling some pulse and nervousness, yeah, it's really nice.  
   
 Q.   Today what were you doing, were you looking at the leaderboard with a chance of winning or doing what you were doing in your own world?   
ALEX NOREN:   I never even thought of winning, he's playing so good.   Even though today is a slower start from him, but I was just trying to get a nice finish in.   I'm thinking the next few weeks it's going to happen, so, yeah, just keep making birdies and try to stay up with the other guys.  
   
 Q.   What's going to happen in the next few weeks?   
ALEX NOREN:   I don't know.   Now I'm into next week since I wasn't in before but I don't know if I'm going to play.   I'm playing Thailand.   Yeah, we'll see what happens.   I was very far back in the World Ranking, so I don't know what's going to happen.  
   
 Q.   You must have been in some dark days through this time.   What's it been like?   Did you ever feel that you were ever going to get back to this position?   
ALEX NOREN:   Well, I thought it might take longer time.   I was pretty unsure even two months ago if I was going to play again this early‑‑ it's tough when you don't know if the hand is holding up, and that's been a little bit of a problem Thursday morning.   And I was like, no, here we go again.   But it turned out better than I thought, yeah.   
   
 Q.   I take it there's huge satisfaction with a finish like that.   
ALEX NOREN:   It was so nice.   Yeah, I'm very, very happy, very, very happy.   
   
 Q.   And everything worked today?   
ALEX NOREN:   Yeah, I played really well in the beginning.   Didn't really play that well around nine, turning there, and then I got a birdie on 10 which felt nice.   A little bit slower after that but then really got it going.   So it was just a lovely day, lovely finish and lovely start.   
   
 Q.   I know we've touched on this in recent times when it was good in Abu Dhabi, and great progress in Qatar, and this is even better, isn't it?   
ALEX NOREN:   It's just the progression you want, isn't it.   Feels great.   
   
 Q.   Are you a little bit surprised it's happened as quick as this?  
ALEX NOREN:   I'm very surprised.   Like I said before, I didn't really play that well coming in just before Christmas when I was able to play again.   I'm very, very surprised and happily surprised.   But it feels, knock‑on‑wood, but it feels almost better than ever.   
I'm hitting better shots under pressure in the end.   I'm not into next week; maybe I'm going to play, maybe not.   It feels like a lot of pressure, especially to me when I haven't felt pressure in a long time.   And to pull off the shots that I did, I haven't been able do that so I'm really happy with that.  
   
 Q.   And the wrist, are you able to forget about it?   
ALEX NOREN:   Not really.   It was painful on Thursday and Friday mornings, but it's getting there.   It's very stiff, so I've got to keep working on it which is a little bit of pain.   But I'm playing, which I'm happy about.   
   
 Q.   A bonus I presume is World Rankings because they must have shifted?  
ALEX NOREN:   I need to get up.   I've lost a lot of ground there.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT