PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 14, 2010
Alexander Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tell us about an excellent start?
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Yeah, it was. First of all, it felt like night and day this week compared to last week. It's like last week, you had to -- even the easiest shots felt really difficult and today was -- it was good preparation for this course, because now it feels so much easier. Every shot, you didn't have to factor ten things into every shot.
 But then my driver was really long and really good today. And this course, it gets easier because there are short clubs on every hole. And putting was a lot better, as well. 

 Q. Anthony Wall said that it was such a joy to have a fast round, sunshine obviously, after all of the difficulties; you can just play in a better rhythm?
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Yeah, I think with a shorter field it plays faster, as well. I don't know how long it took, but maybe just over four hours, and it was nice. 

 Q. Are you conscious of shooting low right from the start here knowing that there's been some exceptional scoring? 
 ALEXANDER NOREN: My last rounds here, 10-under, 7-under, but it's easy on this course to get frustrated, too. So I just tried to really enjoy and try to stay patient, because you will get birdie chances. All of the holes are not easy. 

 Q. Presumably, your state of mind has been so much better after Austria anyway. I know there's other tournaments in between?
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Yeah, it's just when I train by myself now, there's nobody to blame. And working harder on my whole game and not getting stuck that I need to improve my swing, I need to improve this; I need to improve my shots, not my swing.
 I think I was watching a lot of tennis and I figured out, tennis is the same as golf. You need the shots, you don't need the swing. So if you can hit the shots well, then it's easy. Doesn't matter how good your swing looks if you can't hit the shots. It's the whole game, so working on the whole game.

 Q. How good are you at tennis? 
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Not very good. I'm trying to get good. My caddie helps me out a lot because he's a former player and he's like a coach, more like a game coach instead of a specialist at one part of the game. So it's good. 

 Q. And what a difference, you were with Colin Byrne for a while, winning a tournament, as well. Has it taken some time just to gel a new partnership?
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Yeah, he's very different. He's not as experienced and not as -- you know, he doesn't have the knowledge as Colin did. But he will if he keeps going. We played on the national team together, and I don't know if he's a pro, but he's a good player. It works good. 

 Q. What's his name?
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Pontus Eliasson. 

 Q. Time for a good week, don't you think?
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Yeah, I do. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT