ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 21, 2010
Alexander Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Your thoughts on a pretty successful day?
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Yeah, first day out after a longer break. You know, you're a lot more nervous than you are when you keep playing all year round. I got it around great. I hit my driver fairly good. I didn't hit all the fairways, but you know, pretty long, and on this course, even if you're in the rough, you can have shorter shots in. 
 I holed a lot of those 10-footers for birdie. I'm really happy and happy to be back and playing again. You feel a little bit off when you're off that long.

 Q. When was your last competitive round?
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Well, I played in the Royal Trophy, but match play and stroke play is different things. I think it was good that I played in that, because otherwise, you know, when you practise all the time, you think of improving, improving, improving, but out here, it's all about today. It's not about preparing for tomorrow.

 Q. Did you practise over the break? 
 ALEXANDER NOREN: No, I didn't have many days off. Maybe two or three days off all winter, but I had a lot to work on. I was happy with the scores last year, but I wasn't happy how I played, so you know, when you always feel like, oh, I got away with a round and I'm happy I shot under par, you know, you want to be in control. It feels still not there, but we'll see. 

 Q. You must be really pleased to get off to a start like that. 
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Yeah, I played good today, and it's all about enjoying the golf, not just fighting and fighting and fighting. I think that's -- well, everybody is fighting probably. I'm not going to say I'm anything different.

 Q. Have you looked ahead to the season as a whole? Have you set any goals that you would like to share with us? 
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Well, I try to play better tournaments than I have been and try to get into the majors, get into the WGC events to push myself a little more. You know, if you play the same tournaments, it's easy to get used to it, and used to the conditions and stuff. 
 As soon as it got tougher, like playing a links course, for example, when it's really different, I'm struggling a little bit. So I need to try to play the best event. 

 Q. If you do that and do well in them, can you dream of Ryder Cup and these sort of things? 
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Oh, that would be amazing. It's always in the back of my head. You know, it's starting to creep in. 

 Q. Because you're always talked about as one of the young players that's coming through, Martin and Rory and yourself, and that's a bracket of guys that could possibly be there. 
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Yeah, I really liked the Royal Trophy, and you know, it's probably a different thing, but it would be unbelievable. It's what you dream of. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT