BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 10, 2008
Alexander Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tell us just how good that was.   
 ALEXANDER NOREN: There was no bogeys, which was great. That's what I've been struggling with. I haven't played really, or my scores haven't been great.   
 I've had too many high scores, doubles and triples, but now I've started hitting it better off the tee, and you know, getting more chances for birdies, and I just lose momentum as quick with a high score. So now it's like if I didn't make birdie, I made par.  
  
  Q. When was the last time you were leading a tournament, and how significant is it?   
 ALEXANDER NOREN: That was a long time ago. That was last year back in Portugal.   
 Even I've had some good finishes, but I've been coming up on Sunday from 20th going to fourth or fifth, but it's great to be in there from the beginning and that feels great. It didn't feel that great but then when I started playing --  
  
  Q. Why didn't it feel that great?  
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Well, I haven't shot the scores. Even if it feels good on the range, it's a different thing than going out and being in contention right away. It's a whole different thing. Even if it feels great on the range, you have to step it up on the course.  
  
  Q. When you have led or been right in contention, you've kept it going by and large, haven't you?   
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Yeah, I haven't won, but I don't know, you learn every time and hopefully I'm going to keep playing good.   
  
  Q. Is this a special one to do it in because of the calibre of players here?   
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Yeah, last time I remember crying after missing the cut because not that I played bad, but just it's such a great course. It's my favourite all year, just fantastic; and then playing against all of these great players, it makes it special.   
  
  Q. And it was in good condition despite the fact that you are one of the later finishers here?  
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Yeah, it's a little wet but it's great.   
  
  Q. Did you really cry?  
 ALEXANDER NOREN: I really wanted to play. I really wanted to play two more rounds. It's a different feeling than if you miss the cut somewhere. Here, it's the most fun course I play all year, so it's great.  
  
  Q. Do you feel ready to win?   
 ALEXANDER NOREN: Yeah, yeah, it would be great.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT