COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
January 25, 2008
Alexander Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Tell us first of all about the background with Martin Kaymer.   
 ALEXANDER NOREN:  We played a lot of Challenge Tour together and he came up out of the blue and played really well and I tried to hang on to that.  I ended up beating him at the Challenge Tour rankings but we only played eight tournaments.  Then we practised together this winter in Phoenix and he played well.  He played very well last week and I just tried to beat him.    
  
  Q.  I hear you were beating him through the winter practise months.   
 ALEXANDER NOREN:  Did he say that?  I played really well, yeah.  He was a little bit nervous actually and then he came out, 65-66.   
  
  Q.  It's a great story because you weren't far away yourself last week, and I'm sure you've studied along with the other young players what the effect and the immediate impact of that win could mean for him with the World Rankings and where he goes in the game now; is that something you're conscious of?   
 ALEXANDER NOREN:  I was a little bit behind him in the World Ranking anyway, but it's easy to move up when you haven't played the year before and the year perfect that.  So it's good news.   
  
  Q.  And it's a situation you're in now near the top of that leaderboard going into the weekend, is it one you really enjoy or do you feel pressure at all?   
 ALEXANDER NOREN:  I was leading in Portugal a year ago and I was really nervous.  I never felt that before.  I was leading the Challenge Tour but it's a bit different.   
 This week, you know, I feel better and better about my game.  It's not -- maybe I don't hit it perfectly all the time but it's better and I feel more relaxed.   
  
  Q.  Nice to see you smiling as well and it could be quite something for the young guns to go back-to-back against this kind of field.   
 ALEXANDER NOREN:  I know.  That would be nice.   
  
  Q.  I know you don't want to put yourself under too much pressure by making predictions so I just wish you the best of luck for the week.   
 ALEXANDER NOREN:  It was good, no bogeys, three birdies, that's perfect.  I like it.  It was a little bit maybe easier than last night.  Still quite a lot of wind and a little bit different wind today, so it a few holes played differently, especially 9 and 18 played longer.  But other than that, it was nice.   
  
  Q.  I take it you were pretty satisfied because you spoke last week in Abu Dhabi, and I guess this is a good continuation.   
 ALEXANDER NOREN:  It is, yeah.  I mean, I finished okay in Abu Dhabi and played okay, and this week, playing about the same.  Just putting a little bit better.   
  
  Q.  We spoke about you practising in the States with Martin Kaymer, I take it you're pretty inspired by his win last week.   
 ALEXANDER NOREN:  I was.  I was happy for him and I was a little bit jealous, I could tell you that.  He played very well and I need to step up a little bit to be him and it's great to see.   
  
  Q.  It's got to be good for your confidence that you played so closely with him.   
 ALEXANDER NOREN:  Yeah, but the last two years, he's always been ahead of me and that kind of inspires me, too, so I can see I can him in practise.  I've just got to do it in tournaments.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT