OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 30, 2015
Alexander Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tell me about round two.   That's a lovely move in the right direction, isn't it? 
ALEX NOREN:   Yeah, I played pretty good.   I had a few troubles out there, missed a few greens, and it gets pretty tough if you hit to the wrong sides.   I managed those ones and then played good the rest.   So it was a nice day. 

Q.   Sounds like it doesn't stay pretty tough for too long because there's so many opportunities?
ALEX NOREN:   There is.   The weather's fantastic.   It's no wind, everything is in our favor.   And the course is not playing as long as it has been before.   It's probably 30 degrees, and the ball is flying pretty far. 
So it's all in our favor, and you just have to make the birdies. 

Q.   You hesitate to say that this course is ever easy, but it's certainly playing perfectly, isn't it, and those greens are so receptive. 
ALEX NOREN:   Yeah, the greens are quite soft if you come in with the shorter clubs, and the longer clubs, they could be pretty firm.   But the greens are so nice.   I've never seen better greens.   It's just if you get it rolling, you can make the birdies.

Q.   Are you feeling particularly good after the exploit in Abu Dhabi and Qatar? 
ALEX NOREN:   Yes, just trying to improve and it's going in the right direction, which is not always the case when you're trying to improve.   The driver is getting better every day, and the putting, when you get used to these greens, it's easier and easier.   It's a little bit of grain.   All three of these courses play pretty similar.   Just try to work your way into it.

Q.   And I guess it works with your mind, as well, because Abu Dhabi was the first one back for a long while and now you're probably in a rhythm, as well, aren't you? 
ALEX NOREN:   Yeah, and it was so long before that I played a tournament before Abu Dhabi, and then I didn't have any kind of tournament rhythm.   But you get into it, as you say, when you play; it's my third in a row and it gets easier and easier.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT