BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 22, 2013
Alexander Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Very well played, great round today, how sharp did the game feel out there?   
ALEX NOREN:   Well, I hit a lot of good shots and a few bad ones, but you always do.   I managed to hole a lot of putts.   So it was a little bit of a fight in the end but it was great to hole all the putts.   
   
 Q.   You've been in contention a number of times, a number of Top 10s, how do you approach the final round given your experience so far this season with a win being maybe just around the corner for you?   
ALEX NOREN:   It's tough, because you put so much expectations that you don't have maybe going into this round than the first.   It's tougher, but I learned a lot, and you learn to just kind of try to hit one shot at a time and see what happens, if you do it well, and maybe not have too much expectations and think about winning and all that, instead of just thinking about the shot ahead.   
   
 Q.   Will your game plan and approach be similar in terms of being aggressive and going after it and trying to hole as many putts as you did today?  
ALEX NOREN:   You've got to be aggressive, because there's so many guys.   The leaderboard is as tight as ever with so many good players.   Yeah, I've got to be aggressive and maybe more aggressive tomorrow than today.   
   
 Q.   And what about the support, the crowds have been unbelievable, and you had a lot of people following you playing with Marcel Siem, it's been fun, hasn't it?   
ALEX NOREN:   Yeah, it's great, there's so many people, and it feels like there are even more because the course, it runs through these valleys and it's great.   
   
 Q.   Thoughts on today, please?  
ALEX NOREN:   It was a great day.   It was fantastic on the greens, just like No. 1, and yeah, I played really nice most of the time.   A few bad ones maybe, but it was a good round.   
   
 Q.   You probably say it's nothing special, but I've got to ask about 16 with an eagle 2?  
ALEX NOREN:   I came off the bogey on 15, and it was a perfect distance for the 3‑wood and I hit it great.   Marcel hit it really close just before me, so I knew it was possible.   But then I managed to hole the putt, it was great.   
   
 Q.   Comes at a terrific time, pushes you right up and builds the confidence.   
ALEX NOREN:   Yeah, because the leaderboard is so tight, and you need to keep making birdies to be up there.  
   
 Q.   Feel ready to win again?  
ALEX NOREN:   I do.   It's all about posting a good round tomorrow.   It doesn't really matter if you're one behind or one ahead.   It's just about tomorrow, so I'm going to do whatever I can to post a good round.   
   
 Q.   What is your reckoning in terms of total?   
ALEX NOREN:   Well, if the weather is like today, you're going to see scores like today.   If I shoot something like today, I'm a happy man.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT