STANFORD UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 19, 2013
Kevin Hogan
Trent Murphy
Jordan Richards
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   First of all, Kevin, how would you describe your performance today in comparison to the last two weeks?   Did you feel you were seeing the field better, getting better protection?   How do you think?   What was the difference in this game? 
KEVIN HOGAN:   I don't know.   I got put in.   I had great plays, great protection all day.   We saw what we liked coming from the defense.   You know, we got back to our base plays.   The plays we've been repping since training camp.   I had to go a little bit more simple.   I had great help all around me.

Q.   What did you think of the catch by Whitfield on the goal line? 
KEVIN HOGAN:   Unbelievable.   He just went up and made a play.   I can't wait to see it.

Q.   When you let go of that ball, do you expect him to come down with it or are you not sure when that ball is traveling towards him?   It looked a little high for him to go up and get it. 
KEVIN HOGAN:   Oh, yeah.   I'm always expecting him to go up and get it.   He goes up and gets those ball when's they're in the air.   I just try to take a little air out of it and give him a chance, and he just did the rest.   Unbelievable play.

Q.   Jordan, could you describe the two picks and how those got set up? 
JORDAN RICHARDS:   The two picks, I lined up.   Lineman starts there first, pumped and I just went on the first one.   Had to make a play on the ball like you did in practice every day.   The second one, the rush got hot, which is what we preach every day in practice, on the coverage has to stand up and that's what we did.

Q.   Were you dinking Hundley on the first one hoping he would pass in that direction? 
JORDAN RICHARDS:   I don't know.   I was just doing my job.   That's what I do.

Q.   What was your reaction when you saw the flag? 
JORDAN RICHARDS:   I my reaction was as long as on the fence put it's in the end zone, it's fine.   As long as we get seven points up.

Q.   Murphy, what was the plan for stopping Hundley?   How were you able to control him so well today? 
TRENT MURPHY:   The biggest thing was just working together.   We wanted to keep him in the box.   Unfortunately he got out on us a couple times, but that's going to happen.   He's a phenomenal player, a great kid.   He holds the key to their offense.   We wanted to stop him.   He got out a couple times.   But the key is us all hunting together, keeping it in the box and putting pressure over play.   Like Jay Rich making those two picks.   They're going to do their job in the back if we put pressure on them.   So it was definitely a team win for us?

Q.   You had talked at game last week that that's how you respond.   Why has this team been so good for responding after losses? 
TRENT MURPHY:   That's kind of our second nature.   That's how we practice and train in the off‑season.   The biggest thing is fighting adversity.   It's kind of one of our team goals.   One of our team mottos, and that kind of starts in practice for us.   We respond to everything.   Definitely just our style of football.

Q.   You guys probably feel like you were never out of the Pac‑12 race.   But when you look at the schedule, Oregon State, Oregon, do you feel you're right in the snap every chance to make a statement? 
TRENT MURPHY:   We're just looking to go 1‑0 every week, so our focus will be on the beavers this week.   If we can go 1‑0 this week, we'll keep being in good position and end up where we want to be when it's all said and done.

Q.   Trent and Jordan, did you guys get a good look at the catch by Kodi, and what did you guys think of it? 
JORDAN RICHARDS:   Just making a heck of a play on the ball.   I know he's capable of it, and Hogan trusts him.   So as receivers and DBs, when the ball is in the air, we've got to go get it. 
TRENT MURPHY:   Yeah, it was a phenomenal catch.   Once I saw it up in the air, I started jogging out for the PAT because I knew he was coming down with it.   We trust those guys to make those plays.   It was an awesome catch.   I can't wait to see it again.

Q.   Kevin, since you were on the field when it happened, but when Devon got hurt, what did you guys see and what was your reaction?   Also, what was your reaction when he came back out to the sideline? 
KEVIN HOGAN:   Unfortunately, I didn't see the contact.   It was a short route, a little high route.   But he's a warrior.   We know he's a fighter, but one of the toughest kids on our team.   When he went down, we were playing for him.   To see come out on the sideline, he's in good spirits, so that was good to see.

Q.   Trent, how satisfying a feeling is it to end the game on a sack? 
TRENT MURPHY:   It's a pretty good feeling.   Credit to my teammates because they kept them in the box to come clean and make that play.   I wasn't able to run away from it.   But I thought we were going to lineup for another play, and I saw the time run out, so I was ecstatic.   It was definitely a great feeling.

Q.   Given the productivity of Hundley and the UCLA offense going into this game, is this one of the more dominant performances you guys have had as a defense? 
TRENT MURPHY:   I think so.   That's our goal to improve every week.   Had to improve from last week.   Wasn't hard for us to do that, getting the win.   But one of our goals is to keep a team under 17 points.   This is a very high‑scoring offense, so we knew we had our work cut out for us.   They're still a great team.   If everything works out, we could see them again.

Q.   Trent, you mentioned last week ‑‑ were you guys better mentally this week than you were last week? 
TRENT MURPHY:   Absolutely, and that kind of starts from practice.   I think we practiced better this week, and we feel comfortable.   We do it in practice, and we all believe we can do it in the games. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT