MLB WORLD SERIES: RANGERS v CARDINALS
October 20, 2011
Allen Craig
Arthur Rhodes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Arthur, the other day Jason Motte called it a free-for-all down in the bullpen, when the phone rings you guys don't know who the phone is for. Can you talk a little bit about the way you guys have been used in so many different situations down the stretch here? 
 ARTHUR RHODES: Well, I look at it that I think everybody saw that our starters were going like four, five innings, and I think our bullpen went out there and did a great job and picked them guys up. Like I say, man, when I came over here, everybody said the bullpen was struggling a little bit, but now you look at this bullpen now, everybody is going out there and doing a great job.
 But like you said, what Motte said, that when the phone rings, everybody is prepared, everybody is ready to go and everybody is ready to go out there and do their job. 

 Q. Can you just talk about going against the Rangers, your old team. 
 ARTHUR RHODES: Facing my old team? Like I said, man, I have no grudges against that team. They're a great team. They've got some good guys on it, great guys. Front office is great. But like I said, man, I'm with St. Louis right now. I'm going out there and playing for St. Louis, not the Rangers. 

 Q. Arthur, can you give us your thoughts on when you were let go, did you ever think that this moment would come, or did you think it was over? And what does it mean to you to be here? 
 ARTHUR RHODES: Well, when they let me go, I didn't think my career was over. I knew there were some teams I could have signed with. Then I decided to sign with St. Louis, and look where we're at now. We're in the World Series, and I'm just going to help this team win the World Series. 

 Q. I think the Phillies are one of the teams you almost signed with; you beat them, now this team that let you go. Does it seem like a weird way this is all shaping up for you? 
 ARTHUR RHODES: If you look at it, it's crazy. And like you said, the Phillies wanted to sign me, and they wanted me to go down to Clearwater and get some work in, and I told them no, because I had more time than that. Then I decided I was going to sign with St. Louis.

 Q. When you got a chance after last night's game to sort of take it all in, what does it feel like knowing that after so many years you've gotten a chance to pitch in a World Series game? 
 ARTHUR RHODES: Well, I took it in when the National Anthem was going on. And once I went in the game, it started to hit me more. I think that's why I threw two straight balls to Josh Hamilton instead of throwing strikes. 
 But after the first couple pitches, then I settled down, and it was all over. 

 Q. Talk a little bit about, I know you had some other teams interested in you, but to hear that Tony really wanted you, told Mozeliak, go out and get Arthur, I've had my eye on him for a while. Just to be wanted that much by a guy like Tony La Russa. 
 ARTHUR RHODES: Yeah, man, like I said, '09 and '10 when I was with Cincinnati and when I faced St. Louis and Tony -- when I see the way Tony worked, and now since I'm playing for Tony, he's a great manager, and I think he pays attention to the game, he watches the game, and he makes some good moves. He might make some bad moves, but like I say, he's a good manager, and he knows what he's doing. 

 Q. Allen, how different of a mindset is it for you coming off the bench rather than playing every day? 
 ALLEN CRAIG: I definitely have a different approach when I'm coming off the bench, you know, because a pinch-hit opportunity is just a small chance to do something, and it's not getting four at-bats in a game. So you've got to make the most out of it. But in my pinch-hitting coming-off-the-bench opportunities, I try to keep it simple and not try to do too much and kind of just take it for what it's worth. It's a chance off the bench, and pinch-hitting is a tough thing to do. I don't think there's anybody in the game that's figured it out because it's so tough to do. But I have kind of developed a approach that's allowed me to be a little bit more successful this year as opposed to last year. 

 Q. If you're a DH, how does that compare to pinch-hitting or hitting every day? Is it sort of like in between the two or is it more like one or the other? 
 ALLEN CRAIG: I guess you could say that it's in between the two, but it's getting four or five at-bats in a game, so you definitely have a better feel for the game and what the starter is doing. You have a chance to make more adjustments throughout the game. But you know, getting four or five at-bats is definitely easier than pinch-hitting. 

 Q. Last night Tony talked about you had established yourself in the farm system coming through as a hitter. Can you talk about what you learned to prepare you for this? 
 ALLEN CRAIG: You know, I think that every level coming up has prepared me for the Big Leagues in a different way, and it's taught me to make adjustments every step of the way. You can't just stick to what you do because it's not going to work all the time. You've got to find a way to make adjustments and figure out what guys are doing to you and stuff like that. 
 You know, my success in the Minor Leagues definitely helped give me some confidence coming up to the Big Leagues, and it gave me something to build on, that's for sure. 

 Q. It might have been Lance or maybe Albert yesterday who said if given a chance you'd be starting and playing and batting in the middle of most lineups in baseball today. Would you agree with that assessment? 
 ALLEN CRAIG: Yeah, I do. I mean, I believe in myself as a player. I've always believed in myself. I appreciate them saying that. It means a lot to hear that from guys like that. You know, I've never doubted myself as a player, and I know what I can do. I've just tried to make the most of my opportunities and show people what I can do. 

 Q. When you hurt your leg in Houston and people thought you would be out a few days and then you were out a couple weeks and then you were out a couple months, did you wonder if you were ever going to get healthy? 
 ALLEN CRAIG: I knew I was going to be healthy, but I just didn't know how long it was going to take. It was kind of a unique injury, and breaking that bone in my knee was painful, and it took a lot of time to rehab and get my leg strong enough to be out there and play, so I wouldn't be at risk for further injury. It took longer than what I wanted it to be, but that's what it was. That's what the rehab was, eight weeks, and I worked my butt off to get back. I didn't take any days off with that. 
 But it was definitely a frustrating time because I wanted to be out there playing and helping the team. But those are the breaks, and I'm here now, and we're in the World Series, so I'm focused on that. 

 Q. Arthur, as a veteran, I wondered what your thoughts are of the intentional walk as a tool for strategy and whether it's something that pitchers begrudgingly do and what kind of pressure that puts on the pitcher to face the next batter. 
 ARTHUR RHODES: I think intentional walk is -- well, you saw it last night, when they had a man on second, then Carp intentionally walked somebody to get like a ground-ball double play. I think when the manager intentionally walks somebody, there's a feeling that next guy is going to hit a ground ball and get a double play. 

 Q. How versatile do you have to be at this stage of your career? How many positions do you feel comfortable playing? 
 ALLEN CRAIG: I mean, you know, as you've seen me, I've had to be versatile to get in the lineup. I've played all over the field, and that's been something that's helped me get in the lineup. So if I wasn't able to do that, then I'd be on the bench. That's definitely helped me out, and it's something good that I have in my bag. 

 Q. Our color guy in Japan was thinking maybe we're going to see a left-hander pinch-hit for you. Obviously not the case. Could you talk about the trust from La Russa, what that means to you and the confidence it builds and all that. 
 ALLEN CRAIG: It means a lot, to have the confidence from Tony to put me in that spot, and I've worked hard over the past few years in Spring Training, and my opportunities last year and stuff to earn that from Tony. I've tried to make the most of my opportunities and come through with the big hit when we needed it. I'm thankful that he put me in that spot because getting that trust from Tony and guys that have been around, a Hall of Famer, is huge. It's a huge confidence builder for me. I was glad I could come through. 

 Q. If you were to win the World Series this year, this would kind of seem a storybook ending for your career. Have you thought about next year? Are you going to pitch next year regardless of what happens here? Would the Cardinals be in the picture, if they want you back, or how do you kind of look at your future? 
 ARTHUR RHODES: I've been telling myself that I want to play one more. It doesn't matter if we win, or when we do win it. I'm coming back, and I want to come back with St. Louis. I keep telling myself I want to play one more, I want to play one more, but after the World Series I'm playing one more and then I'm going to retire. 

 Q. You mentioned those other positions. Are we going to see you at second base again? And would you feel comfortable there? 
 ALLEN CRAIG: I don't know, I'm so focused on the World Series, I haven't even thought about 2012. You know, I'm just going to do whatever they tell me to do. I know I want to play, and I'll do whatever it takes to play. I don't really care where it's at. 

 Q. Bengie Molina was in the same spot last year, no matter who won the World Series he was going to get a ring. Is that sort of strange for you that you're getting a ring whether you win the World Series or not? 
 ARTHUR RHODES: Yeah, everybody asks me that question, but you know what, I'd rather get a ring with St. Louis. I'd get a ring with Texas, too, but I'd love to get one with St. Louis, and I'd love to sign with them again. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT