KANSAS STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 23, 2019
Joshua Youngblood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Kansas State - 30, Texas Tech - 27
Q. (No microphone.)
JOSHUA YOUNGBLOOD: Going left, faking left and then went right. Guys up front did their job again. Ross blocked the guy for like 20 yards down field. So, I mean, I didn't really have to do much, it was there, all the blocks were there, so I'm just grateful I got in the end zone.
Q. Was Phillip trying to get you to take a knee at the beginning of that?
JOSHUA YOUNGBLOOD: No, no I don't, I think it was, I think it was called wrong. Phil did a great job setting up a block. Made a cut off of him and then followed Ross. Ross blocked the dude. So it was a great return, great call.
Q. You guys really aired it out big time on offense more than usual. What was the mentality there?
JOSHUA YOUNGBLOOD: We just needed to move the ball, so they put the trust in the receivers to get the job done, we were able to get first downs and stuff like that. And two of our receivers scored their first receiving touchdowns today, so shout out to those guys, Chabastin Taylor and Phillip Brooks. So we have a ton of room, we have been working this whole year to prove people wrong. At one point they said we had the worse receiving corp in the Big-12, so we take that personal and we're just going to come out next week and do the same thing.
Q. What was your reaction when you got that flag after the touchdown?
JOSHUA YOUNGBLOOD: Oh, it was selfish. Won't happen again. All the fans that are listening, it was selfish. My high school coach is probably going to call me and get on me, you know, he didn't, you know, teach me that. So it was just selfish. It won't happen again.
Q. You think you deserved it?
JOSHUA YOUNGBLOOD: I definitely deserved it. It was selfish. I should have celebrated with my teammates. But it won't happen again.
Q. So was it the dance part?
JOSHUA YOUNGBLOOD: Yeah, it was -- I don't -- yeah, yeah. It won't happen again. Coach Klieman talked to me about it. All the coaches said something to me. So it won't happen again. It was very selfish, it's not me.
Q. You already believed in your abilities, but now two returns in the last three weeks. How much confidence does it give you in the return game?
JOSHUA YOUNGBLOOD: It just shows that we're a dangerous unit. I think a lot of teams are going to look at the film and be like, try to kick it out of the end zone because whether it goes to me or Phil we're going to try to make a big return. We have great guys that are blocking for us, open up the lanes, so it's not that hard for the returners, and when everybody does their job all we got to do is run fast, so...
Q. Has this set in for you? Do you realize what you're doing this season?
JOSHUA YOUNGBLOOD: I mean, I've just been trying to make plays, maybe after the season I'll sit down and think about everything I've done, but I try not to get caught up in that, just staying humble, always hungry. Like I made a great play, but I want another one. So that's just try to keep winning, try to keep making plays for this team.
Q. Just how big was today's win in the grand scheme of things?
JOSHUA YOUNGBLOOD: Man, we lost back-to-back games, so we needed the win and I feel like the way we won was just great. It was a fourth quarter battle that came down to the last two minutes and we nailed it out. So this is going to go -- everything's better when you win. The city of Manhattan is happier when you win, so it's just good getting a win for K State and getting a win for ourselves.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT