HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2010
Blake Adams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We would like to welcome Blake Adams to the interview room. You moved to 10-under, two strokes off the lead entering the final round. This is new territory for you on the PGA TOUR. If you would talk about your thoughts going into tomorrow and something about your round today?   
 BLAKE ADAMS: Obviously I'm very excited, and I'm in a good spot, but we have a long day tomorrow, 18 holes.   
 I try not to look too far ahead, I didn't play as well as I did the first two days, but I think the wind had a lot to do with that. It was in the 17, 18, 20 miles an hour, good gusts, and I didn't have my best ball-striking day, but we got around the golf course and I shot even par, which isn't great but it's not the end of the world.   
  
  Q. When you look and don't see anybody else going away, is shooting an even par round -- are you actually feeling okay about that?   
 BLAKE ADAMS: Well, I mean, obviously if I had shot 6-under it would have been a lot better, but it was a very, very difficult day. I guess Jason Day shot 3-under, and that's a phenomenal score from where we played it, our tee time and all that. It just wasn't my day, I didn't hit it well, drive it well, didn't hit my irons very well, but all in all you can't win the tournament on the third day, but I could certainly lose it, and I didn't lose it so I have a chance tomorrow and we'll just peg it in the morning and go after it.   
  
  Q. Were there any holes in particular that you felt you really could have done something but you didn't, didn't come through like you'd hoped?   
 BLAKE ADAMS: I just really didn't hit it as close as I would have liked all day. I had a wedge on 16 that was pretty bad, the wind was blowing, so hard it's a guess how far to hit the shot. I just didn't hit my spots.   
 Every putt that I felt like I should have made I made for the most part, there was a few, like on 13, the par 3, I think I had an easy putt that I ran it through the break, but other than that, I just didn't give myself enough opportunities today.   
  
  Q. What's it going to be like tonight being in this situation and going forward for you tomorrow?   
 BLAKE ADAMS: I'm a pretty laid back guy, same as it was last night. I'm playing golf for a livin'. You know there is a lot worse things that could happen. And if I play great tomorrow, which I fully expect to, fantastic, if I don't, I'll try again next week. It's a learning process, I know, but I'm a 34-year-old-rookie, but I don't feel like a rookie. I have a lot of miles under me, but all in all I'm just going to battle the golf course and see where I end up.   
  
  Q. Main thing you've learned this year as a rookie, Blake?   
 BLAKE ADAMS: It's a place you don't want to leave. This place is nice. Obviously the Nationwide Tour is great, but the PGA TOUR is the best show on either earth, obviously, every week. The glitz and glamour is phenomenal. I am just a small-town, south Georgia guy, and I don't ask a whole lot from people, but it's the red carpet every week, and it's a place that -- I can definitely see why the years past I've seen guys who have fallen down to the Nationwide Tour, they're all grumpy and this and that, and I understand now, I really do, the Nationwide Tour is a phenomenal tour, but this is the highest level and it's unbelievable.   
  
  Q. What's been one of those perks this week? Anything stood out about the red carpet treatment?   
 BLAKE ADAMS: Everything from the volunteers to the courtesy cars, the golf course, everything, every week is tip-top shape, doesn't matter what event, from my first event ever in Hawaii to this week here. Every week I walk away just floored. I'm obviously blessed to be where I'm at, and it's something that -- I hope to make a very long stay up here. We'll take it one day at a time and see where it leads me.   
  
  Q. You talked yesterday about your injuries. How did you feel today?   
 BLAKE ADAMS: I felt good for the most part. I wake up hurtin' every morning, you know, but it's something that I battle with every day, some days are better than others.   
 If I didn't hurt some I would feel like something was actually wrong. I just deal with it, move on, I really don't think about it a whole lot. I go in early and do my therapy and move forward. I feel good.   
  
  Q. Good as you can?   
 BLAKE ADAMS: Yeah, I'm fine.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks, Blake. Good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT