NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 14, 2014
Blake Adams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You're pleased with where you are after two rounds, right? 
BLAKE ADAMS:   Yes, I am.   Obviously didn't hit it as well today as I had yesterday but all in all, good spot going into the weekend and just try it again tomorrow.

Q.   Coming back from your hip injury, you've played well in these tournaments.   Would you say you're not surprised by that at all?
BLAKE ADAMS:   No, I worked really hard after I got back off the crutches and all that.   I was able to chip‑and‑putt for about six weeks and then I could graduate into wedges and so forth, and it kind of helped me out a lot.   I've been kind of tentative on my hip more so than I have been in the past.   I've always played with it just kind of dealt with it.   Just working hard at it and hopefully I'll be 100 percent soon.

Q.   What does the hip injury restrict?   What would you be better at in the future when you get to 100 percent? 
BLAKE ADAMS:   A lot.   I have never been able to practice after a round of play, so I can actually go and hit range balls afterwards.   I spend about two hours in the rehab trailer every day, an hour before my round and an hour after. 
So I really‑‑ come Wednesday, after Wednesday, my practice session's over pretty much.   So being able to, you know, kind of go out there and work on some issues I had during the round would be awesome.   I've obviously never had that.   You know, just looking forward to being normal and not hurt afterwards, not do all this crazy stuff.   So looking forward to it. 

Q.   Do you think you'll be longer? 
BLAKE ADAMS:   I hope‑‑

Q.   Or is it more of an endurance thing? 
BLAKE ADAMS:   I'm hoping in about four or five weeks, is what I'm hoping‑‑ I feel pretty good this week.   Last week was cold weather and obviously not good.   Just try to get some warm weather, that always helps.

Q.   Once you're totally healed up, do you think you'll be longer? 
BLAKE ADAMS:   Oh, absolutely.   Absolutely.   My ball speed's going down.   When I first got back, I was kind of cleared to start hitting drivers and I gained a lot of speed and then I reaggravated some things, whatever, had a tear somewhere and so I kind of babied it and my ball speed's gone down.

Q.   Is it more of a tendon thing?
BLAKE ADAMS:   Hip flexor. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT