AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 8, 2014
Blake Adams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Par 72 in round three, are you satisfied with that?   It was a pretty volatile round out there. 
BLAKE ADAMS:   It was.   It was a bear.   Actually, during that whole wind gust, all that melee out there, I 4‑putted number 7 from about 18 feet.   Then I hit probably the best 5‑iron of my life on the next hole to about six feet.   Made birdie there. 
Once we finally came back out.   And I ‑‑ shoot, I don't think I actually made a par until about 15, I don't think.   I was just birdie/bogey the whole way in.   But it was very, very tough out there.   Even par is nothing to frown about.   We'll just try it again tomorrow. 

Q.   There's not a lot of guys ahead of you on the leaderboard, what do you expect tomorrow?
BLAKE ADAMS:   Hopefully the same wind.   That's my only chance.   If it's kind of nasty like this today, I've always kind of fared well in bad weather, so we'll see.   I'm not wishing anything, but if I could pick my optimal deal, would be high winds with a little bit of rain. 

Q.   You're coming off a hip problem last year, how is that?   Are you good physically?
BLAKE ADAMS:   I'm about 80, 85 percent.   I had major hip surgery back in February.   I missed all of last year and just kind of fighting my way back.   I've always kind of been hurt, so I'm not quite a hundred percent, but I'm‑‑ I am working hard to get there, obviously, and we'll just keep on plugging along and hopefully, about a month and a half I'll be a hundred percent. 

Q.   Do you feel like you guys got the bad luck of the draw on the rotation?
BLAKE ADAMS:   It was mighty, mighty tough.   We were actually talking about it, that you could throw us out on any of the three courses during all of that melee and we're all in the worst spot.   But, that's just how it goes and I had an unfortunate 4‑putt like I said from 18 feet or something like that. 
Then I came back with a nice birdie on the next hole.   So, it is what it is.   Everybody has to play in it, it just happened to hit us at the semi bad time.

Q.   Where was that 4‑putt again?
BLAKE ADAMS:   On 7.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT