TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2012
Blake Adams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Blake, you'd fallen back to even par through the first five today, and stuff started happening.   Tell me about it.  
BLAKE ADAMS:   Yeah.   I'm not real, real sure.   I actually may have had a bit of a hangover from last week.   Actually probably about the same yesterday as I did this morning.   Just didn't have a whole lot happening.   Made some silly bogeys here and there and finally kind of cut those out and made a nice little run.  
   
 Q.   You did have a nice little run through the front side and the early back side.   You can get a run going on that back side.   You birdied 12, 13, 15 and 16.   That can happen.  
BLAKE ADAMS:   Absolutely.   It's a fantastic golf course.   Greens are absolutely perfect.   Great, great make speed, and you know, I had some nice little tap‑ins coming in and it was a nice day.  
   
 Q.   Talk about that shot at the 18th.   That just capped it all off.   
BLAKE ADAMS:   It was a nice one to end on, probably about a foot.   Foot putt for a birdie is always a nice way to end your day, and hopefully I'll just take it through the next two days.  
   
 Q.   You like it here.   You top 10'd here last year.  
BLAKE ADAMS:   Absolutely.   It's a nice layout for me.   I like it.   It's a laid‑back atmosphere, kind of like I am, and go and just make birdies.   That's all you do around here, and I was fortunate to do that today.  
   
 Q.   Smiling a lot more than everybody was smiling last week.  
BLAKE ADAMS:   Last week was definitely a bear, but it was a fun, fun test of golf.   I thought it was very, very fair.   My first Open.   I had a great time and learned a lot and hopefully I'll do better next time.  
   
 Q.   You're doing really well here this week.   Good luck to you the rest of the week.   
BLAKE ADAMS:   Thanks.  
   
 Q.   Thanks very much.   Blake Adams, birdied six of the last ten holes.   What did you find?   Something.  
BLAKE ADAMS:   I think I finally woke up.   I was just kind of making some silly bogeys all day yesterday, early this morning and I finally got rid of those silly errors and made some birdies.   
   
 Q.   A lot of people looking at your record.   You top 10'd here last year and you're playing beautifully coming in.   A lot of people thought this could be your week, and it's starting to shape up that way, isn't it?  
BLAKE ADAMS:   I hope so.   I've been playing well.   I've been working hard.   I'm finally seeing some good numbers, and you know, we'll see what happens.   It's a long, long tournament.   I've only played 36 holes, and like I said, we got two more days and just see what happens.  
   
 Q.   Does playing well at the U. S. Open help you here or you were just so burned out by the time you got here that it might actually hurt?  
BLAKE ADAMS:   I think it helped me.   I actually got to go home.   I had a red eye late Sunday evening, flew home, saw my kids, talked to my parents.   So it's been kind of a semi vacation week almost feel for me.   Very, very nice area here, great, great course.   Great layout for me.   And I'm just out here just trying to have fun, so we'll see what happens the next two days.  
   
 Q.   Great play.   Thanks for your time.  
BLAKE ADAMS:   Thanks.   Appreciate it.  
   
 Q.   Three of the last four, six out of the last ten.   You started out, you were just kind of going along.   What started to click for you?  
BLAKE ADAMS:   I actually just kind of cut out the silly bogeys I was making yesterday and early this morning.   You know, I've been playing well, just not really seeing the results in the first probably 27 holes there.   
I don't know, just wanted to just have fun again and just quit trying to hit perfect golf shots, and I ended up hitting some nice ones coming in, made some putts, and here I am.  
   
 Q.   Sometimes when athletes, whatever the sport is, just keep things simple, that results are better.   Don't over‑think and stuff like that.   Is it sort of similar to that?  
BLAKE ADAMS:   Absolutely.   I'm a very, very simple guy.   I don't ask a whole lot from folks.   I don't want a whole lot.   I have a real simple life, and you know, calm is perfect for me.   So I just try to hit fairways, hit greens, make some putts, and you know, hopefully that works out.   I actually did that today, so you know, we'll try it again the next two days.  
   
 Q.   Was it a fun group today?   I mean Charlie had a tough finish, but he was going low most of the day, too.  
BLAKE ADAMS:   Absolutely.   I had two great partners.   They're very good friends of mine, and you know, just ‑‑ it was a fun 36 holes.   It's always nice to have guys with you that are also playing well.   It's a nice little flow to see guys making putts and birdies.   That's always a plus.   
So great day, and hopefully I can do the same the next two days.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT