THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
May 31, 2012
Blake Adams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Solid 3‑under to start the tournament.   Seems like your last three, four, five events you've started off the tournaments really well with good opening rounds.   
BLAKE ADAMS:   Yeah, I have.   I've been playing a lot better than it's looked throughout the year.   I've been working really hard, haven't gotten a whole lot out of it.   I had a nice four solid days at THE PLAYERS, which was nice, and my last two weeks actually played pretty solid, just didn't make any putts.   It didn't look as good as it probably was.   This is a great golf course, very, very difficult, and it's just good to get off to a great start.  
   
 Q.   How is the course?   How are the conditions out there, and how fast is it?   
BLAKE ADAMS:   It's absolutely perfect, like always.   The folks here do a tremendous job.   It's one of the best stops on the TOUR obviously, and it's‑‑ the greens are firm, they're fast.   You have to find the right parts of every green or else you're in for a long day.   I think my key was I think I missed one fairway today, first hole I hit it in the first cut, but other than that I hit every fairway, and I was able to attack when I could, and if not just kind of play to some fat parts of the green.   
   
 Q.   Jack always believes that the course plays a lot more difficult when it's drier and when balls can run through the fairway.   Do you think that's true here?   
BLAKE ADAMS:   Absolutely.   This golf course you have to have some decent angles to attack these pins.   He has his pins tucked in little corners, and if you're on the wrong side of the fairway you have a hard time hitting a 6‑iron in there.   It's not a short course by all means, it's a course you have to hit fairways.   And then obviously hitting the green is no gimme, but I'm out there just trying to hit fairways to start off with and just trying to attack it from there.   
   
 Q.   Is it tougher to hit the fairways now or is it still wide enough?   
BLAKE ADAMS:   I mean, he definitely makes you think about it.   I mean, I played pretty conservative off of the tees.   But you've got to be smart, but you can't really lay back too far because you're hitting such long irons in to some of these smaller greens that are firm.   And if you're doing that, then you're in for a long day because it's hard to get in the right little quadrant sometimes with some of those longer irons.  
   
 Q.   Was there one hole or one shot where you thought:   I've got to go for it?  
BLAKE ADAMS:   I just played solid from the first hole, just hit fairways and greens, and I hit a lot of good putts on that front side, didn't make anything.   I think I started out with ten straight pars, which is not a bad thing around this place.   I left some out there.   But I made a good par on 12, hit it in the back bunker and made about an eight‑footer for par there.   Had a very, very difficult bunker shot.   That was a nice moment, a gainer there.   
All in all, just a solid day.   
   
 Q.   You've kind of had an interesting history, a lot of injuries.   Can you kind of describe your path.   
BLAKE ADAMS:   It's been a long road.   I've been kind of beaten and battered my whole career, my whole life.   I was really, really rough growing up on my body, and it's something I wouldn't have changed.   I played every sport growing up, and golf was just something I played in the summertime just to pass the time before baseball practice.   I'm beaten and battered, but that's just part of it.   It's the hand I was dealt.   I don't really make a big deal about it.   I wake up and I do my rehab, my therapy, and just move on.   
I'm out here playing golf for a living, and it could be a lot worse.   Injuries are injuries; everybody has them.   I just kind of try to maintain mine and take one step at a time, which is hard sometimes, but we manage.   
   
 Q.   What's the list of injuries?  
BLAKE ADAMS:   Oh, it goes on forever and ever.   My biggest was in 2008 they told me I needed a total hip replacement in my left hip, so I've been kind of fighting through that.  
   
 Q.   Did you get it?  
BLAKE ADAMS:   No, I haven't done it.   I've got three bone spurs and a big old cyst and no cartilage and a lot of arthritis in there, two torn rotator cuffs, tore my left one, broke my left ankle, all sorts of stuff.  
I played everything, so it is what it is.  
   
 Q.   Baseball, football, basketball?  
BLAKE ADAMS:   Yeah.   I have a homemade swing, kind of sort of due to my injuries because I can't do some things in my body.   I can't turn as well and have this pretty old golf swing like a lot of these guys out here.  
   
 Q.   You're not an old guy.   
BLAKE ADAMS:   No, just wanted to get it from point A to point B, and I don't really care what it looks like, just as long as it gets in the hole.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BLAKE ADAMS:   No, I mean, it's fine.   I'm very, very blessed to be doing what I'm doing.   I'm out here having fun and enjoying life and just having a good time.  
   
 Q.   Does it make you appreciate every bit of success you have, even a first round 3‑under?  
BLAKE ADAMS:   Oh, absolutely.   I've been at this a long, long time.   It's my third year on TOUR, and it's only Thursday.   Like three weeks ago at THE PLAYERS I had a great first round, everybody was going nuts, and I was like, look, it's just another round of golf.   It's just Thursday.   Yes, it's a big tournament, but it's just another round of golf.   That's what we do every week.   We play golf, and it's not a‑‑ y'all make it more blown up than we do.   It is what it is.   
   
 Q.   Other than the injury, anything interesting about your background, your life?   
BLAKE ADAMS:   Just real laid‑back guy.   I live in a very, very small town, 130 people, no red lights, just enjoy life and just‑‑ we're just normal folks.   We don't need all the glitz and glamour and big‑city stuff.   We're real simple.   
   
 Q.   How did you end up on TOUR with that kind of background?   
BLAKE ADAMS:   Well, I grew up in a town of about‑‑ a big city of about 3,000.   My wife is from the town that I live in now, so that's where we live now.   I have two wild monkeys, and her folks are close by there, so they kind of manage my two kids with her, because it really doesn't matter where I live because I'm gone all the time.   
   
 Q.   How old are your kids?  
BLAKE ADAMS:   Four and two.   My little boy is almost five.   
   
 Q.   How did you end up pursuing golf as a career?  
BLAKE ADAMS:   Kind of out of default from my other injuries.  
   
 Q.   What did you want to be originally?   
BLAKE ADAMS:   Anything other than golf.   I mean, I was better at football, baseball and basketball, but torn rotator cuffs and all that kind of stuff pushes you out of some of those sports.   It all worked out.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT