TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 16, 2019
Riko Jeffers
RJ Turner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TCU - 33, Texas Tech - 31
Q. RJ, what did you (indiscernible) comeback and just kind of going down 17?
RJ TURNER: First off, we can't afford to start that slow, but just about the team, we can play with anybody in the league. It's as simple as that.
Q. What do you feel changed from the second half going forward that accounted for those three-and-outs?
RIKO JEFFERS: Just mental focus. Everybody locked in. We dug ourselves in a hole early in the game, and we just linked up together and realized we had to fight. We have to protect the Jones. That's what we talk about all the time, protecting the Jones, and came up a little short. So this week we're just going to get back to work and try to make sure we don't have as many mental errors.
Q. Riko, obviously with the vocal leader that Jordan is on the field, who kind of steps up when he goes out with an extended injury?
RIKO JEFFERS: I mean, really everybody. We all just lock in together. We link up. Coach Patterson talked about linking up earlier on in the season, and I think a lot of guys have really took that to heart, and we really just have been fighting for each other, fighting for our brothers and just fighting for the seniors, trying to get the seniors out as bowl champions.
Q. Coach said that Jordan didn't get much practice and said that you got some reps at this spot early in the week.
RIKO JEFFERS: Yes, sir, we were preparing for anything, so I mean, our linebacker room, we rotate spots anyways, so it really wasn't a big change. We have to learn all positions because it's next man up when someone goes down.
Q. RJ, what did you see from Jett today?
RJ TURNER: I mean, Jett is a good ball player. Nothing he does surprises me, and there's nothing new. It's the same old stuff. Just calling the plays, executing the plays, making them happen. We had one turnover today early on, but I don't -- I mean, I think it was like a tipped ball or something, so I mean, other than that, I think he's a smart player. He takes care of the ball.
Q. RJ, can you describe that touchdown pass where you and Dalton were both right there?
RJ TURNER: We're teammates, man. We do everything together. But no, Rig got it. I'll give it to Rig, he got it.
Q. How was that play designed or who was he supposed to give it to?
RJ TURNER: Man, I feel like it was a busted play, a little scramble. And once a scramble happens, you just get open and you know, I ran one way, and I didn't even know he was behind me, so I think I tried to catch his ball. So not him so much catching my ball. So I feel like I was in the way, yeah.
Q. And on that (indiscernible) pass, what kind of wrappage was going there?
RJ TURNER: I mean, we worked it all week at practice. It was a little switch. Nothing major. They didn't pass it off right, so when you get opportunities, you've got to take advantage.
Q. For all the passes that you have caught over the last several weeks, that was the first time I think (indiscernible) --
RJ TURNER: Yeah, unfortunately it was, but it came, and that's all that matters. Should have got in the end zone more, and maybe the outcome would have been different. But it is what it is now.
Q. Riko, you got credit for 11 tackles, Adam got credit for 12. What did you think of how he played?
RIKO JEFFERS: Adam stepped up today, and I mean, that's what we expect out of him. We practice, we preach next man up, and so he came prepared. He got a really good week of practice in, and it just showed today. I mean, being around the ball all the time, he was flying to it, so I think Adam did really good today.
Q. What goes through a defense's mind when you see 3rd down, 3rd down, 3rd down and TCU keeps converting?
RIKO JEFFERS: We've just got to go to our next and figure out a way to stop them. I mean, they did convert a lot of 3rd downs early in the game. We finally figured out a way to get some stops, but we've just got to execute better. Can't have as many mental errors, as I said, and just got to figure out a way to get them off the field so we can get the ball back in the offense's hands so we can put more points on the board.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT