TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 14, 2019
RJ Turner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (Question).
RJ TURNER: It's routine plays. You know, you go to practice every day. It is explosive offense. It's stuff we do every day. It's not that spectacular.
Q. How do you think the team has responded to the loss?
RJ TURNER: I mean, no one likes losing. You know, however you can't change what's happened. With that being said, you've got to the rinse and repeat like what Coach Wells says.
We get back on the field today, and from here on forward it is Iowa State.
Q. Iowa State's defense, many have had trouble with that zone and the team. Why do you think they have been so successful defensively?
RJ TURNER: I mean, for what I know, it is similar to the defense of what Baylor plays, it is don't get deep, keep everything in front of you come make the play. If we do what we do, which we know we have to do, make plays, move the ball and the rest will take care of itself.
Q. (Question).
RJ TURNER: It is what it is. You know, it is kind of -- the number is called, you have to be available, no if, and or but about it, whatever is going on in the game.
If the ball comes to you, whether it is me or running back or whatever, you have to make a play on it. It's just how it goes.
Q. (Question).
RJ TURNER: Yeah. As time goes on -- I mean, I came on, I learned offense pretty fast. Now, the more we're -- we're going into week 7. I feel like I know it now more to wherein some situations I know what will be called, not only do I know my assignment but I now the guy's assignment next to me. That helps me out how. I need to know where I need to be based on where he needs to be. It helps us both with success.
Q. (Question).
RJ TURNER: I would be comfortable with either one of those guys playing quarterback. I trust both of them.
The biggest difference, I would say Jett is more mobile than Alan.
Q. How is has your relationship with Jett grown since he has started?
RJ TURNER: I came in, Jett took me in. I mean, we have been tight. We have been talking.
Because he was playing behind Alan, and you know I came in, I was playing behind people. You know, I had to earn the spot as well. You know, we shared some of the conversations. But I mean, he watches film, I watch film, he send me videos of things he's seeing on film he would like me to look at. I would do the same. Just better preparation.
Q. Tell us a little bit about your run on the 79-yard play.
RJ TURNER: Like I said, it's a play we ran in practice. It unfolded the same way.
I could have definitely just kept running, outran those two guys, but I was tired and kind of lost trust in myself, I tried to cut back, but it doesn't matter. We scored on it. That's all that matters.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT