KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
October 9, 2020
Lauren Stephenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  THE MODERATOR:   Here with Lauren Stephenson who shot a 2-under 68 today, and I've got to ask about No. 10.  That was awesome.  Walk us through what happened there.
 LAUREN STEPHENSON:   Yeah, I hit a good drive and kind of got an unlucky bounce in the rough, and I had what I thought was a good lie, and it just came out so dead.  So I was like, thankful that it got over the water, obviously.  Wasn't expecting at all to chip it in and earlier today I had a chip and I told Josh, I'm going to chip this in, and it lipped out, so it's kind of funny that I got that one to go in, but definitely can take all the lucky breaks out here.
 THE MODERATOR:   And no matter what, you're just one stroke off the lead right now going into the weekend at a major.  That's got to feel pretty exciting for you; how are you feeling right now?
 LAUREN STEPHENSON:   Yeah, obviously anytime you're in contention in any tournament it's good.  I feel like I played well, obviously, the beginning of the week last week, so I feel like my game has been trending in the right direction.  I just couldn't piece it together last week.  But I love this golf course and I love playing hard courses, so it sets up really well for me.
 So obviously I'm excited for the weekend.  I'm looking forward to the opportunity, and mainly it's just a huge opportunity for me to grow and develop as a player.
 THE MODERATOR:   What have you been taking away from this week that's going to help your growth and development as you continue your career?
 LAUREN STEPHENSON:   Yeah, I mean, obviously I haven't been out here too long.  This is just my second year.  But any time you're competing and contending in majors it's going to help you in the long run.  I haven't really thought about where I stand at all.  Today it was nice to not even think about the cut line for me.  I was just kind of playing my game.  So yeah, I'm excited for this learning experience.
 THE MODERATOR:   I know you were playing your game and clearly you knew you were playing well, but were you watching leaderboards to see where you fit in?
 LAUREN STEPHENSON:   Not really.  Every once in a while I'd glance over and be like, oh, it's nice to see my name up there.  But I don't know, today I just didn't even think about it at all.  I mean, it's only Friday, so I'm literally just trying to take it one shot at a time out here.
 Q. Did you see anything early on in your practice rounds that told you this was going to be a nice week ahead?
 LAUREN STEPHENSON:   Well, I've really gotten a lot better in my ball-striking the last few weeks, and obviously this course you have to hit it well.  So knowing that, I've been working with my coach and kind of fixing some of the big miss shots I've had.  A couple weeks ago I knew if I keep the ball in play with my distance that this course sets up pretty well for me.
 Q. What is it about your personality do you think that you like tough?
 LAUREN STEPHENSON:   Honestly, I think I find it challenging when it's a birdie-fest.  I feel like my mental game is one of my strong suits, so when I know if I just keep making pars and keep doing the right thing, I'm right in there.  So I think that helps me when it's hard because it's easy for me to be like, all right, middle of the green, if I miss my putt, I'm not upset, like it's just easier for me mentally almost which seems kind of crazy because majors are always tougher.  I don't know, I feel like it's easier to stay in the moment.
 Q. I remember you at Trump's course a few years ago at the U.S. Women's Open.  How big of a growing experience was that for you, on TV in the spotlight?
 LAUREN STEPHENSON:   Yeah, it was definitely huge, and getting to play the weekend at a U.S. Open as an amateur was a huge learning experience.  I felt like I didn't feel too nervous.  I feel like playing in the U.S. Ams and stuff with cameras and stuff, it kind of helps you prepare for that.  But yeah, I feel like that definitely has helped me last year playing in majors and now this year, and any time you get the chance to play with the best players on the toughest courses it's going to help you grow.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT