U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2018
Lauren Stephenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just give us your initial thoughts on making the semifinals of the U.S. Women's Amateur, two matches away.  
LAUREN STEPHENSON: Yeah, I mean, to make it as far as I have, it's an honor.  I'm so thankful for this opportunity because last year I lost in the quarterfinals, and I think any time you can make it further the next year, it's just a huge accomplishment, whether I make it to the finals or not.  So I'm really proud of the way I've played so far.   
 Q.  The last two days, you've had to come from behind early in matches.  What have you done to kind of turn things around in both those matches?  
LAUREN STEPHENSON: I think for me, sometimes I do better when I come from behind because it makes me more focused and determined because when you have that lead, you're sometimes trying to protect it instead of still playing with an aggressive mindset.  When I was 2-down, I felt comfortable that I could hit the shots, and I had nine holes to kind of come back.   
 Q.  I'm sure you're tired of being asked about last year's quarterfinals match.  Does it feel a sense of relieve to get to the semifinals this year?  
LAUREN STEPHENSON: A little bit.  I think last year was completely different.  I played completely different people.  I think this year honestly it was a hot harder.  The matches have been really tough, all four of them.  I'm just thankful to be here, honestly.   
 Q.  Talk about Alabama pride; Kristen is on, you're on, you've got a potential teammate trying to find you in the Final Four.  Talk about the pride of the Alabama program.  
LAUREN STEPHENSON: Yeah, Alabama has a pretty good legacy with the USGA events, having Emma and Kristen already won, so it's great to have three teammates here with eight players left.  I know we're all cheering for each other and playing for each other, and I'm so happy that Kristen won today.  I know she had a really hard match, so she did a great job.   
 Q.  Looking ahead to tomorrow, what do you need to do to get to the final match?  
LAUREN STEPHENSON: I think just continue doing what I'm doing, enjoy the moment, and whether I win or lose, just take it all in, it's my last U.S. Am, so I'm really just enjoying every minute out here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT