SAAB WALES OPEN
June 4, 2011
Phillip Price
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Saturday is known as moving day, how pleasing was that move in front of your home fans?
 PHILLIP PRICE: Delighted today. Really windy. The logic course is playing really tough, so to finish 3-under, delighted.

 Q. What was the key to the score then?
 PHILLIP PRICE: I saved well a lot of early holes, got up-and-down a few times; because it was tough going out and I just picked up a few birdies and I think I just drove the ball well. I've done everything pretty good to be honest.

 Q. Looks a little bit like things are improving conditions-wise, is that how it felt the last few holes or pretty much the same to you?
 PHILLIP PRICE: When we started it was really windy but seems to have calmed down now.

 Q. Yesterday you got a two-shot penalty for teeing up in front the markers at 15 and Howard Clark is feeling horribly bad, because he was the one who identified it. Had he not, though, somebody could are running in and DQ'ed you; what's your take on that?
 PHILLIP PRICE: Probably if I look at it, I could have been disqualified if I teed off on the next. The good bit was I wasn't. A two-shot penalty is disappointing, but I would rather be playing today than sitting watching.

 Q. After a few rough years for you by your standards; you're starting to show some form. Is that how it feels to you?
 PHILLIP PRICE: Great progress during the last year. I'm delighted with the progress. Gradually building my confidence and my game is tidying up. I have to keep going forward like I'm doing.

 Q. What's behind the progress?
 PHILLIP PRICE: I had an exemption and I was a little lazy probably and the exemption ran out I think a year ago, and I thought I'd better start knuckling down. I didn't see the return instantly, but I definitely have the last six months. 

 Q. One more interview; but that means you're the man in demand and playing well. 
 PHILLIP PRICE: Yeah, it's nice, a bit of a change from lying 60th on Sunday and nobody wants to know you. 

 Q. 3-under it, good score, you played very well today?
 PHILLIP PRICE: Yeah, very tidy, very solid, because it was really tough, so delighted, just very tidy around the golf.

 Q. A bit of wind, a bit of rain, a bit of sunshine. You had it all. 
 PHILLIP PRICE: Yeah, the caddie forgot the umbrella, so we were a little bit wet on 14 but. I think the wind may be calming down a little bit but I hope it doesn't.

 Q. You said you've got a couple of good rounds in you; are you starting to hit form in the right time now?
 PHILLIP PRICE: Yeah, definitely. I didn't play great the first day, but yesterday I hit a lot of good shots. Today hit a lot of good shots and felt good again. I'm tidy around the greens and feeling quite confident. 

 Q. Is it just a case of converting those birdies when they are on offer?
 PHILLIP PRICE: I probably did today. I probably didn't miss a putt inside ten feet today, which kind of helps. Every time I had a putt for a bar or a birdie, I kept making them which keeps your round going. 

 Q. Because of your score today, does the frustration of the two dropped shots of yesterday mean anything more to you because you would be higher up?
 PHILLIP PRICE: No, I don't even think about it. I birdied the hole the next time around, so that's just the way it was. I've forgotten all about it.

 Q. Primed now for the final day, more charging up? 
 PHILLIP PRICE: Yeah, just play the same stuff.

 Q. Seems like you actually took the positives; the fact is, you could have been disqualified, the two shots are gone, and the fact is, you might not be here if you had played 16. 
 PHILLIP PRICE: I think that you have to look at it that way. If you look at the alternative, you'll make yourself miserable. If you look at it in a positive way, you'll feel better about it, which gives me more chance of playing well in the holes afterwards. But taking it badly, I could have really made a mess, but I took it in a good way and kept the good mood that I'm in going.

 Q. People coming in behind you are struggling with scores, you sort of shot up the leaderboard, what would it mean to be out in The Wales Open, final day, out amongst the leaders?
 PHILLIP PRICE: It would be nice. I think I haven't played decent in this tournament for a long time, so it's nice to be there. 

 Q. Home course, as well, you live just up the road, as well?
 PHILLIP PRICE: Yeah, a lot of friends around. Kind of a nice buzz about the week.

 Q. Could that be a positive tomorrow with lots of your local friends? 
 PHILLIP PRICE: Yeah, I've always tended to do reasonably well in the tournament, especially when we were on the other course. And I think something about the week gives me an extra buzz.

 Q. When is the last time you were in that last real feeling-in-contention mode?
 PHILLIP PRICE: I finished fifth at Barcelona a couple of weeks ago. I wasn't in the leading group, but that was probably the last time.

 Q. Feel good to have it back?
 PHILLIP PRICE: Yeah, just in the mix a little more.

 Q. Earlier you said you had not been working -- is it with a coach now?
 PHILLIP PRICE: No, just going to more tournaments that I didn't want to go to. Just doing more that's going to help your golf that I didn't want to do before. Just doing more that I need to do to perform. It's not an easy thing to do after four million years out here. (Laughter)







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT