SAAB WALES OPEN
June 3, 2011
Phillip Price
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Can you just explain what happened on the 15th tee?  
 PHILLIP PRICE: I teed up in front of the boxes, obviously wasn't aware of it, finished the hole h to go back and two shot penalty. They noticed it on the television and apparently it was conclusive, so they asked the three of us if we had had any inkling that I had been ahead and I never even thought about it. But the TVs have said it's conclusive, so I will not argue.   
  
  Q. And why you are playing partners saw nothing amiss?  
 PHILLIP PRICE: No, nobody saw anything.  
  
  Q. Howard Clark, he brought that to your attention?  
 PHILLIP PRICE: No. Only John Paramor came to us.   
  
  Q. But having reached the green and played it out, you knew if you went to the next tee --  
 PHILLIP PRICE: Yeah, they asked us not to start, and John came up and Mike Stewart had had a look on the TV. That was it.  
  
  Q. Presumably, this is all because of the dogleg nature of it, and the fact that you're cutting a corner?  
 PHILLIP PRICE: I suppose it is. I never really thought about it but I suppose if you think of the logic, it's quite awkward the way you're standing. So it's obviously my own fault I wasn't paying enough attention.  
  
  Q. Ever done anything like this before?  
 PHILLIP PRICE: Never done that before, no. So I'll be trying to go further back.   
  
  Q. Is it a case of, with your length, trying to find an advantage? As you say, you were so unaware of it.   
 PHILLIP PRICE: I had too much club in my hand, so I would have liked to have gone back a couple of yards.   
 No, just don't even think about it. I'm always -- I don't usually try and pinch very close, either. So obviously I did there.   
  
  Q. Something you want to see on TV just to see it?  
 PHILLIP PRICE: No, they have said it's conclusive, so I'll trust them.  
  
  Q. Essentially, it's part and parcel of a good round, isn't it.   
 PHILLIP PRICE: Yeah, and I'm glad they told me, I suppose I'd be disqualified if I teed off the next.   
 I played well today. It was tough out there. So I was delighted with my style of play. I think 1-over -- it's very tough, so I think 1-over is a decent score. I'm pleased. I think when you've played quite nicely, you look forward to the weekend as well.  
  
  Q. And you're in a decent position.   
 PHILLIP PRICE: Yeah, a long way off the lead, but with the way I played today, I feel like I've got a good round in me somewhere, so let's hope one of the next two are.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT