DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 1, 2007
Phillip Price
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Phillip, what pleased you most about your play today?   
 PHILLIP PRICE:  Just I hit it really solid on the back.  I had a few erratic shots and thought it could be a tough day.  I played very nice and solid and holed a few putts.   
  
  Q.  The front nine is generally thought to be more testing, so that was a bit of scrambling to get a good score, was it?   
 PHILLIP PRICE:  7, the short par 4, I birdied it.  There's more chances on the back side.   
  
  Q.  Coming back to form after struggling most of last year, what's been the key to that?   
 PHILLIP PRICE:  The biggest thing that happened is playing well in Madrid for me, the first time in ages, finished third which I was really pleased with and what I've done from then is made more effort, practised a little more at home.  I've got a family and don't want to do extras, but I've tried to do extra.   
  
  Q.  Ryder Cup, how tough were the tough times?   
 PHILLIP PRICE:  Very tough.  Last year was the worst year I've ever had in probably 15, 16 years, so you wonder where it's gone, so good to see some good form.   
  
  Q.  Looking forward to another opportunity to win?   
 PHILLIP PRICE:  Yeah, I had a chance to win in Abu Dhabi, I was up there for a couple of days.  Hopefully I can use that for the rest of the year.   
  
  Q.  New coach as well, how is that going?   
 PHILLIP PRICE:  Really well.  Simple.  Simplify things for me and the things we have done have made quite a difference for my ball-striking.  Good combination.   
  
  Q.  And you talked about the year you had last year, down to a combination of injury?   
 PHILLIP PRICE:  No, injury.   
  
  Q.  Just form?   
 PHILLIP PRICE:  For me, I came back from America disillusioned probably.  That's what I wanted to do and I couldn't do that, and the baby in February, I didn't want to be away.  I didn't want to play golf.  I didn't know which direction I wanted to go in and probably took a lot of soul searching to get to the end here, do I really want to make the effort.  It's difficult because of the effort you've got to put in.  If you've got a family and you've been doing it a long time it's not easy to go off for a couple of days to practise with your coach.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT