ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 19, 2007
Phillip Price
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   GORDON SIMPSON:  Well-played today, Phillip.  A lovely round of 65 and a fantastic way to finish, knocking it stone-dead to take the lead.  And I'm sure it's a lovely feeling to be back looking down on the rest of the field at this stage of proceedings.   
 PHILLIP PRICE:  Yeah, think quite a while since I lead a tournament.  Like I said earlier, I finished third in Madrid and that gave me a massive boost to play well.  I had not done that all year.   
 GORDON SIMPSON:  When did you lead, actually, IF can you pinpoint it in your mind?   
 PHILLIP PRICE:  When I won.  I can't think of another time.   
 GORDON SIMPSON:  So it was a long time ago.   
 PHILLIP PRICE:  In '03 I think it was.   
 GORDON SIMPSON:  So tell us what's been happening, you're working with Gary Nichol; has that been a recent development or have you been working with him for a while?   
 PHILLIP PRICE:  Yeah, I worked had him had in Switzerland for a week last year.  My old coach, I just e-mailed my swing to him in America, and I thought I needed somebody on hand which he is, and instantly it was a lot better.   
 Although I didn't play great in Switzerland, I felt better instantly, and Madrid, my last tournament of the year was a little boost.   
  
  Q.  Who were you working with before?   
 PHILLIP PRICE:  Dennis Sheehy in San Diego.   
  
  Q.  How did you hear of Gary?   
 PHILLIP PRICE:  I had seen him in Qatar last year for an hour, I was just talking to him.  He said I take the club too far outside on my takeaway, and then I re-route it from the top of the back again and I'm too far inside, so I have a block or a hook, so we've pretty much just been working on that most of the time.   
 GORDON SIMPSON:  Is it a case now that you're committed to The European Tour as we stand at the moment?   
 PHILLIP PRICE:  Yeah, that's the plan.  Goals change and if I had a full exemption to go to America, I would go, but I wouldn't go on a Tour School category.  With my son in school, it would be quite difficult to go.  But if I had one I probably would go.   
 GORDON SIMPSON:  What was your viewpoint on the couple of seasons you spent over there?  How did you feel about it?   
 PHILLIP PRICE:  Probably felt I did all of the groundwork and then didn't get a chance to reap the rewards because I lost my card.  And I knew it was going to be difficult just going across with two suitcases and not knowing where I was going to be the following weeks.  We didn't buy the house until the middle of the year so I wasn't settled until probably July, probably too late by then.  I felt like a lot of work and didn't get to see if it was going to be fruitful for me.   
  
  Q.  Any shot of the day that stands out?   
 PHILLIP PRICE:  Probably my wedge shot on last to a couple of inches, it was 97 yards.   
  
  Q.  How was it you waited until July to get a house?   
 PHILLIP PRICE:  It was five weeks between getting my Tour School card and going to play the first tournament, so no time to go get a home.  Went with the two suitcases, spent the first seven weeks in California, and I just spent three of them in Disney, which was cold at that time of year, so I really got sick of it by the end.   
 Couldn't find a rental property.  Eventually rented like a golf holiday home for two months just to find something on a weekly basis.  We were looking for something a little better and found a home in the middle of the year.   
  
  Q.  What did you do for three weeks at Disney?   
 PHILLIP PRICE:  Going on rides with the children.   
  
  Q.  What were the keys to the round today, and how do you like the course?   
 PHILLIP PRICE:  I drove the ball fantastic and I putted well.  It's nice to come somewhere you've been before.  The greens are a little grainy but they are still good and it's good weather.  I think all of the players will probably agree that the Middle East is a great place to come and play golf.   
 GORDON SIMPSON:  You played quite well here last year, top 20.   
  
  Q.  What made you decide to play?   
 PHILLIP PRICE:  Climate and golf course conditions.  There's not a lot to do other than probably just play golf and practise.   
 GORDON SIMPSON:  Phillip, nice to see you back in here.  It's certainly been too long and hopefully get you back in tomorrow, it's up to you.  Thanks very much, Phil.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT