VALERO TEXAS OPEN
September 22, 2005
Phillip Price
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Phillip, six birdies, no bogeys.  I know you were glad to get that one in at the last hole for your best start of the year.
PHILLIP PRICE:  Yeah, it's been quite a lean one so it's nice to start well.  I started quite well in Memphis if I remember, so I need a little better than that.
PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Talk about how the round went today.  I know it's hot outside.
PHILLIP PRICE:  It was really, really hot out there.  I just played solid, hit the ball really good today.  I just managed to make the chances that I had.  I kind of hit a few good shots in for a couple of feet, so that was two of the birdies, and if you hit so many good shots, it was inevitable you were going to hole a few putts out there.
PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Do you want to just go through your birdies and any good saves you may have had?  You started at the 10th hole.
PHILLIP PRICE:  10th, I hit driver in the right rough, 7 iron through the back and just chipped it on to a couple of feet.

14, par 4, I hit driver and a 4 iron to about 30 feet, two putts.

The next hole I hit driver and a 7 iron to about two inches.

18, I hit driver, 7 iron to about 15 feet.

Then on the 4th hole I think was my next birdie, hit a driver and a 5 iron to about ten feet.

Then the par 3, 6th, I hit an 8 iron to two feet.

And then on the 9th hole I just hit a driver and a 9 iron to about 20 feet and holed it.
PHIL STAMBAUGH:  26 feet, 9 inches.
Q.  On 8 you had made a pretty good length putt for par.  Were you on the green and was it a two putt there, or did you pitch on?
PHILLIP PRICE:  On the 8th hole?  No, I just had two putts from about 20 or 30 feet maybe.
Q.  But it was kind of a good par save?
PHILLIP PRICE:  No.
PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Philip, just talk about your year thus far.  You're off to a good start this week.
PHILLIP PRICE:  Yeah, and I need it, as well.  It's been a struggle of a year, really.  I haven't played well at any point.  I played okay in Memphis, not bad last week, but in between it's been really frustrating.  I haven't been able to gain any confidence, and I haven't played properly at all.

But I was home the week before last back in the UK, and I knew coming back over these next six weeks I had to perform, so hopefully I'm turning it around.
Q.  You're kind of winding up the year, and if you don't perform here you're back in Q school.  Does that change your mindset how you approach each tournament or do you take it week to week or how do you set yourself up?
PHILLIP PRICE:  I won't go back to the Q school.  It's probably just made me a little more focused on I've got a job to do.  I've got to play well over these next    the next five including this week.  I have to play better than    not better than I've ever played but pretty close to it to even retain my card.
Q.  Is there anything about this course that particularly suits you?  Are the greens pretty receptive?
PHILLIP PRICE:  I think it was just a lot of wedge shots, which probably suits me, and not many par 5s.  Last week Jason Gore was 14 under on the par 5s and I was 4 , so any course where there's    I'm not a long hitter, so any course where there's not a lot of par 5s and there's a lot of wedge par 4s I feel happy on.
PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Short and sweet.  Continued good luck.
PHILLIP PRICE:  Hopefully I'll see you tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT