THE SENIOR OPEN PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 26, 2019
Phillip Price
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A 67, you've been playing great all year on the Staysure Tour.  What were your expectations coming in?
PHILLIP PRICE: Pretty good.  My form's been good the last couple of weeks, so I've been expecting something good happen, and hopefully it's going to be this week.
Q. We talked a little about your Ryder Cup celebration, beating Mickelson, that type of thing.  What would the celebration be like if you won here?
PHILLIP PRICE: I think I'd probably do the same celebration.  May as well.
Q. Going into the weekend, what are your expectations, game plan?  Just try and stay out of the bunkers?  I know you're putting well.
PHILLIP PRICE: Yeah, I've got to stay out of the bunkers.  Didn't hit the ball that well the last couple of days, but I haven't made a lot of up-and-downs.  Going to probably need to hit it better than I've done the last two days.  Let's hope I can find something overnight.  I hit the ball a little better for two days, so I'm not going to keep holing as many putts as I am.
Five birdies was good, I made an awful lot of saves today.  Ball-striking wise wasn't quite there, but I managed to keep out of the bunkers.  I just made a lot of par saves today.
Q. You played well before, I remember you being in the top 30 here.  Is this a course you enjoyed?
PHILLIP PRICE: I played the practise round and I haven't played here in an awful long time.  I didn't remember it being so good.  It's such a good test of golf.  Bunkers everywhere.  Slopey greens.  It's a great test of golf.  I think it would probably best suit me.
Q. Did you manage to stay out of the bunkers?
PHILLIP PRICE: I managed to stay out, but I'm kind of missing too many greens.  So while I'm not going in the bunkers, I'm missing in the right spots.
Q. You're only three shots off the lead, so you must be looking forward to the weekend now?
PHILLIP PRICE: Yeah, if I can just find something on the range.  If I can hit the ball just a little better and carry on the putter and short game stuff that I've got, I might be able to shoot another couple more 67s.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT