VOLVO PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2004
Phillip Price
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SCOTT CROCKETT: Apart from being a hot favorite for the Red Bull Final 5, I think you've made yourself a pretty decent bet for the tournament.  You must be delighted?
PHILLIP PRICE:   Yeah, very pleased.  Kind of snuck up on me at the end.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  You birdied the fourth?
PHILLIP PRICE:   Yeah, driver, 5 iron to 40 feet and two putts.

12, driver in the rough, chip out with a sand iron to about six feet.

14, 6 iron to about 12 feet.

15, driver, 5 iron to 18 feet.

16, 3 wood, sand iron to 15 feet.

17, driver, 3 wood, just short, chipped up to three feet.

18, driver, 3 wood, just left on 18 and chipped it up to three feet.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Fantastic finish, but you must be pleased overall.
PHILLIP PRICE:   Yeah, really pleased.  I felt really good in practice and last week.  When I wasn't doing any good early was a bit frustrated, but the finish made me feel good.
Q.  Have you ever finished that way before?
PHILLIP PRICE:   Not around here, I wouldn't have thought.
Q.  Anywhere else, five in a row?  Did you have eight?
PHILLIP PRICE:   No, I wish I was.
Q.  But you've done well around here before?
PHILLIP PRICE:   Yeah, it does suit me really well.  I was really optimistic at the start of the week.  Today's score made me feel good about it.
Q.  What is it about it that you like?
PHILLIP PRICE:   I think I've always done reasonably well.  I would guess that it suits me.  I would say that power isn't an issue, so, you know, positional and scoring rather than just power.
Q.  The drives suggest you found a few more yards from somewhere?
PHILLIP PRICE:   I've been a little longer the last few years, the stats don't show it.  But I'm hitting the ball better, in the middle of the club.
Q.  What was wrong with your     was there any medical reason for Woosnam going so dramatically backwards?
PHILLIP PRICE:   No.  (Laughter.)
Q.  Are you watching the Ryder Cup tables at the moment and where you are?
PHILLIP PRICE:   No, I haven't looked.  I know I'm nowhere near, and I haven't played much.  The last week was the start of me probably taking some interest in it.
Q.  The last time it was a huge ambition of yours to make the team.  This year you don't seem to be fired by the same ambition, but at least not at the moment?
PHILLIP PRICE:   I'd like to play, but a couple of years ago, it was my only goal in the end.  Whereas, there's other priorities now, I think.  I want to play in the U.S., so that's where I've made a lot of effort, not a lot of reward for that but I've made an effort.  Now it's going to be Europe, make the Ryder Cup team and World Rankings and Order of Merit.  That's my goal now.
Q.  Was Woosnam talking all about his  pub brawl in Jersey?
PHILLIP PRICE:   He's never spoken to me about it.  Can you tell me a bit more?  I'd like to know.  (Laughter.)
Q.  That closing run of those five birdies, one of your better short bursts for a while?
PHILLIP PRICE:   Yeah, you can do it around here, because 16, 17, 18, you can really make a move, but 15 to make a birdie there was probably one of the toughest holes on the course.  To add that one as a birdie, that was a great bonus.
Q.  Are you going to try again next year in America?
PHILLIP PRICE:   No, I can get three more invites, I can play all of the World events and the majors.  If I don't get my card through enough money, I will go to qualifying school.
Q.  Why do you feel you haven't had the rewards in America?
PHILLIP PRICE:   Main reason, a couple     one, I probably didn't play as well as I would have liked.  But the circumstances of the invites that I kept getting were too late.  I went from Qatar to Bay Hill; that was one.  BellSouth, I was on my week off and they said, do you want to go, on the Friday, and I said, oh, no, but I'd better go.

So a couple of them were wasted, I thought.  Pebble Beach was my first one.  Kind of wasn't into the flow.

Combination of not playing great and not having the best situation to perform, really.
Q.  But do you feel comfortable over there?
PHILLIP PRICE:   Yeah, I do now, each time.  If I can go over there and stay there, I feel comfortable, but the one week trips, I have difficulty.  The time change, it's just difficult.
Q.  What's the attraction for you to play over there?
PHILLIP PRICE:   Combination, really.  Money, prize money, that's a very big attraction.

Lifestyle, and I think it would be easier for us to travel as a family which is     and I want to play against the best and see how good I can be.  When I'm another ten years down the road and I want to be more comfortable and happy, then I probably wouldn't want to be there and do that stuff, but I've got to try before my time's up.
Q.  And if you get a card, will you go full time?
PHILLIP PRICE:   Yeah, I plan to keep the situation if I can do both.  If I'm in the World events and the majors, I can play both tours.
Q.  What would your ideal schedule be, you play there till May and then come over here?
PHILLIP PRICE:   Yeah, I think all early season over there, and then come back about Deutsche Bank time.  I'm only going to be here for this week, next week, obviously back to the States for the U.S. Open, and then that run of K Club, Loch Lomond and the Open, and then I do go back to the States then.
Q.  So which is your top goal after those three that you stated?
PHILLIP PRICE:   Getting U.S. TOUR card would be No. 1.
Q.  People still mention the Mickelson win?
PHILLIP PRICE:   Yeah, they do.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  You just did.
Q.  When you're out and about though does it still happen regularly?
PHILLIP PRICE:   Yeah, it does funny enough, a lot.
Q.  Have you ever seen Phil to chat about it or pop into him in a tournament?
PHILLIP PRICE:   Yeah, he invites me out to dinner     (Laughter.) I don't see him very often.
Q.  So there was no exchange?
PHILLIP PRICE:   No exchange.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT