DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 2, 2002
Phillip Price
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 GORDON SIMPSON:  Well, I know this has probably been the best week of everyone's life, particularly yourself.  We regaled with that story last week with Lee Westwood introducing you and Lee telling them, come on, who I beat, who I beat.  Can you just go through that again, what happened that night after the victory?  And in the Belfry bar? 
PHILLIP PRICE:   I think  -- I mean, we did so many different things between getting on the roof and on the 18th green.  We did a bit on the clubhouse and had everybody stood up on the chair one by one.  Lee Westwood, he said, "Phillip Price, tell them who I beat."  I think the crowd had filled out; it was nine o'clock and it was packed and they wanted the night to go on.
GORDON SIMPSON:  I don't think you'll forget that match for rest of your days won't you? 
PHILLIP PRICE:   It's a special one for me because it was probably quite an important point in the end.  There's probably quite unexpected that they would be able to produce that sort of form on that day. 

Q.  What aspirations do you now have for the year ahead? 
PHILLIP PRICE:   I'm going to go to the U.S. qualifying school at the end of this year.  I'd like to go and play there next year. 

Q.  Were you gratified to hear Phil Mickelson say that he felt under pressure all the way in the match?
PHILLIP PRICE:   I didn't hear that.  I did think that  -- I had played him the day before and I did think he would be quite uncomfortable playing me because I played very solid for about 12 holes the day before, and I had a sense that he would be uncomfortable with that because, you know, I played well and I'm sure he thought he had a game on his hands. 

Q.  If you get your U.S. Tour card; how much will you go over there and play?
PHILLIP PRICE:   I will definitely play up to the Masters and then we'll see how much we've enjoyed it and make a decision from there. 

Q.  It could be full-time? 
PHILLIP PRICE:   Yeah. 

Q.  You'll bring the family over? 
PHILLIP PRICE:   Yeah.  (Laughter.)

Q.  Do you have a training routine before playing competitively? 
PHILLIP PRICE:   Nothing at all.  No. 

Q.  Do you go out to the gym, cycling, run, etc.? 
PHILLIP PRICE:   No.  Just golf. 

Q.  Was the Tour school always in your plans?
PHILLIP PRICE:   Yeah, it's been a plan since the start of the year, really.  It's slightly away more recently because I played poorly, but when it came to the deadline which was two weeks ago, I debated, and the only thing I was debating about was it was three stages, but I'm still going to go. 

Q.  The first stage is when? 
PHILLIP PRICE:   I think it's the week of The Match Play.  The week after The Match Play. 

Q.  Why are you going to the States for qualifying? 
PHILLIP PRICE:   A couple of reasons.  My coach is there, for one.  And he's full-time there.  That's kind of a big reason. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
PHILLIP PRICE:   I would say even if I did it just for a year, I don't  -- my plan isn't just to emigrate.  I just want to go and see what it's like.  I played quite a bit there and I would love to go and do it for a year.  I might like it, I might hate it.  I played a little bit in the early season last year and really enjoyed it. 
While we don't have a big family at the moment.  I think this would be the best time to go just to do the experiment so that I know what it's like. 

Q.  Did your performance in the NEC a couple of seasons ago give you the feeling that you could compete on that tour? 
PHILLIP PRICE:   That would be a help.  It's just that I've been there a few times now, and I like parts of it.  Difficult question to answer. 

Q.  Are you not exempt from stage one of qualifying?
PHILLIP PRICE:   No.  I found out about two or three weeks ago that for the first stage, you need to be Top-100 in the World Rankings or make the cut in the British Open or the U.S. PGA, and I'm neither of those, so that was one I didn't expect. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT