WGC NEC INVITATIONAL
August 21, 2001
Phillip Price
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   I definitely would, yeah.  
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   I played quite decent, but Saturday, that really didn't give me any chance, really like shooting 76.  Probably haven't played as well as I would have liked over the last few months.  Just doing everything I can to try to turn it around. 
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   I played well going into the PGA, but I just haven't really got into gear from that point on.  It's not that I'm not playing really badly.  I'm just never clicking into sort of top form, so it's been a little frustrating.  
 
Q.  Is it a relief to still be in that position knowing that you haven't played particularly good golf? 
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   That's what I don't see as a relief.  You know, I'm striving as hard as I can to make sure that I do find some form before the next  -- at some point during the next two weeks, even.  Otherwise, if I don't, I'm probably not going to make the side.  So it is up to me to play well here, and maybe the BMW, too.  I'm sure somebody is going to play well.  So I've got to buckle down. 
 
Q.  Have you played 18 holes today?
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   I just played nine.  
 
Q.  Front or back? 
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   Front nine. 
 
Q.  Think about any shots, special shots from last year? 
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   Yeah, I did actually.  I was going through the last day as I played.  It was kind of odd.  
 
Q.  Does it look different in the light? 
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   I didn't get to 18, so I didn't see it.  
 
Q.  What did it do to you personally last year, lifting your confidence? 
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   Boosted my confidence massively, as I was playing against sort of the best players in the world.  I had never performed at that level in this sort of field.  Boosted my profile.  It did so many good things for me, really.  
 
Q.  When you're not striking it well or feeling as though you're not playing really well, in the last 12 months, does having Andy on the bag, does that help a lot with his experience the past years and this sort of thing?
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   I've only had Andy since the Spanish Open, whenever that is.  I think it probably does because he doesn't show his emotions that much, so I don't sense that he's disappointed, which is a bonus.  Because sometimes the caddies wear their hearts on their sleeves, and you know that they are irritated with you.  But he doesn't do that.  I think he thinks that we are doing good things.  I think he's just same as me, you know, waiting up, trying to bide their time until what should be some good stuff.  I'm doing some good things with my game, but I'm just not reaping the rewards.  I'm sure I will if I keep doing.  
 
Q.  Are you still working with Alan Fine?
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   Yes, he's in the back.  
 
Q.  Does he help? 
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   Yes.  Enormously.  Lots.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   Found a little bit of time lately.  I'll probably do it right now.  I need to make sure that I'm doing  -- I've been doing most of the things that I know that help me perform well.  It's always just a little better if we can get together because it's just a little fresher in my mind, the ideas of what I'm trying to do. 
 
Q.  Knowing what you did here last year and coming back here now, do you think that that can be any kind of a boost, knowing what you can do on this course?
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   I'm hoping it's going to be a boost.  I don't know how that's going to work for me because I've never  -- I've never gone back to somewhere, to the same venue that I've done that well at.  I'm hoping that it's going to be a boost.  I suppose we'll find outcome Sunday. 
 
Q.  How did you play the nine holes today?
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   I played lovely today.  I hit the ball quite nicely last week, but I just had a really bad Saturday and didn't hole the putts that I normally would.  I showed good signs.  Just didn't get it all together. 
 
Q.  How often are you seeing Alan?
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   Probably more so the last few years because I played a few more tournaments in America.  Maybe he's traveled a little bit more in Europe.  So maybe eight, ten times a year we can get together.  
 
Q.  How fierce is the drive to get to The Belfry?  Is it one of those things that's a huge ambition for you?
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   Yes, it is a huge ambition, yeah.  
 
Q.  What is the attraction?  There will be the pressure, there will be the crowd, certainly things a lot of people would run a mile from? 
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   I probably would feel like that.  Hopefully when I'm there, I know I'm going to feel like that.  I've watched enough of them on the television.  I want to be part of that.  You know, I played the Seve Trophy last year.  It was very  -- I don't know what to call it, mild aversion, and I loved it, and I felt a little like that then, too.  So I'm sure it is going to be an even bigger arena.  Just what I want to do. I want to be a part of it.  I want to sit on my rocking chair one day and say, "Look back, that's what I've done."    
 
Q.  Is it true last year you were hoping to qualify as a member of the U.S. tour; it was only later that you found out money didn't count? 
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   Yeah, I didn't realize until nearly two weeks later. 
 
Q.  Are you hoping that again? 
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   It is the case this time.  If I was a member, I would play next year. 
 
Q.  Did you follow the Ryder Cup growing up?  Was it a big deal or more since maybe the 80s? 
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   More since  -- yeah, maybe even the 90s.  Probably since '85, I think, probably is the point where it's become a  -- it's a big deal.  
 
Q.  They haven't announced that they are going to have another NEC here after this year.  Would it be a shame if it didn't come back?
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   I've love to come back.  I think it's a great place.  The crowds are great and lovely.  The people have been great and it is setup so well this week.  It's as good as any tournament I've been to.  It will be a shame, but maybe.  Hopefully wherever they take it, it will be just as good.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT