WGC NEC INVITATIONAL
August 27, 2000
Phillip Price
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PHILLIP PRICE:   I played lovely for 12 holes, 13 holes  -- 14 holes maybe.  And just I played lovely  -- I think you guys know, I'm ranked 75th in the world, so it is a big arena for me.  A little bit new.  So I was a little anxious out there.  I think overall, I'm pleased.  It's a big deal for me to come over; it's a little new.  The experience I gained today was invaluable; so hopefully, next time in that situation I'll deal with it a little better.

PHILLIP PRICE:   One of officials says:  "It is your call," going up 17.  17 was okay.  And then probably just the last two shots on 18 was a bit of a struggle, but I wanted to get it done.  I think everybody tried to get it  -- I think even the last group had a go at it.   A little bit the same for everybody at the end there.

PHILLIP PRICE:   Hopefully, it has elevated me a lot.  You know, I think the best I've ever finished in a major tournament was about 55th.  I've only played in a few.  So when you're here with 38 of the best players in the world, you're playing, and you don't think you're one of the top end; and to finish second, I think has elevated me an awful lot.


Q.  Were you aware of the situation with Justin Leonard? 

PHILLIP PRICE:   Yes, I was. 


Q.  Could you see the scoreboard? 

PHILLIP PRICE:   Yes, I was watching the whole time. 


Q.  We were told that if any one player wanted to stop, that he could.  Was that your understanding?  Did anybody tell that you?

PHILLIP PRICE:   I didn't think about it in the end.  I was up 17.  As long as Phil wanted to carry on, we were going to get it done.  I knew we had a choice, because the last two shots on 18 were a problem.  But I wanted to get it done, and luckily we have. 


Q.  Well it didn't make a huge financial difference, I think 40,000.  But when you're talking about 300,000, is it more important to lose second place than to lose the money? 

PHILLIP PRICE:   No, I wanted the money.  (Laughter.) I mean, I'm disappointed that I did not finish off.  I'll probably stew on that one a little bit.  It would have been nice to finish it off nice and clean; but, I didn't.  But I think there were so many good things that came out of it, I'm going to try to dismiss the tied-second. 


Q.  Did you ever play in conditions like that or anything approaching it? 

PHILLIP PRICE:   With  --.


Q.  With darkness? 

PHILLIP PRICE:   Yes, down in South Africa, but really -- I was starting to not even think about how dark it was.  I just wanted to get it done.  I could see it.   I could see the hole.  I could see the slopes pretty well.  I don't think it had any affect on the two of us. 


Q.  You could gauge distances?

PHILLIP PRICE:   Luckily, I didn't have any shots that I really needed to.  Maybe a 50-yard shot, it would have been a problem.  But all my shots were either long or short, so it didn't really affect me. 


Q.  Is the next logical step in a progression like this not just to compete amongst a field like this but to go ahead and put yourself in a position to win? 

PHILLIP PRICE:   Eventually, yeah.  I think my goal this week was to finish in the Top 15, I would have been very happy, because I had been struggling coming into this week.  I think I'd like to win one  -- I've only won one tournament in Portugal  -- a lot of second place finishes.  In this class, that is a win for me.  I would class my performance this week much higher than that.  Hopefully, down the road, Tiger didn't play well, maybe in the British Open, I might be sneaking up behind him.


Q.  Did you see what he did on 18?

PHILLIP PRICE:   No, I didn't.


Q.  He hit it to one foot. 

PHILLIP PRICE:   He was way ahead, though.  I didn't see it. 


Q.  Any reaction to the concept of somebody playing in that darkness behind you hitting it to that close out of the fairway?

PHILLIP PRICE:   You could get a rough idea where the flag was, because you could see the shape of everything; but still, a fantastic shot. 


Q.  Was there anxiety towards the end? 

PHILLIP PRICE:   Lots, yeah.  I was anxious when I started.  You know, I can't stress enough that it was so different for me.  I felt like I was put into a very deep level, and I struggled at the end.  You know, maybe I just need more time  -- just got to get used to it. 


Q.  How did that manifest itself? 

PHILLIP PRICE:   I just started shaking  -- no, I just quit on a couple of shots, 15 and 16, which were my two bogeys.  Really, 18, I didn't read it too much roll.  I didn't hit too bad a drive.  Just a couple of shots I quit on  -- poor shots, and I made bogey.  16, I didn't really have much of a pitch from where I was.  I just  -- great experience; and hopefully next time, I can just stay a little calmer and finish off. 


Q.  Now you know what it is like, do you want more it, I would suspect?

PHILLIP PRICE:   Definitely.  From the last few years, I've improved, you know, quite a lot, I would say.  You know, I just wanted to be here this week and last week, just for the experience of it.  So to have a good result, as well is just such a bonus.  And to have that  -- I think is a very, very good result.  It will help me achieve a lot of the other goals that I've set, as well.


Q.  The money you win will almost certainly entitle you to a U.S. Tour card.

PHILLIP PRICE:   I didn't know that.  That would interest me. 


Q.  Would it? 

PHILLIP PRICE:   Definitely.  I've been debating with my wife whether we should come over to qualify anyway.  You need to be in the Top-10 on the Order of Merit in order to be exempt, and my plan was just to win a tournament so I could just come over.  I haven't won a tournament, so I can't just have come over and go back to Europe.  But if I did have a card, I would probably  -- I'd have to make a decision, because I would like to try and make the Ryder Cup.  I would consider playing. 


Q.  Could you talk about what it was like standing on 16 tee, and you're looking down the hill, and it's getting misty, kind of spooky, kind of eerie -- what was it like?

PHILLIP PRICE:   It would have been an awful lot easier for us to finish off.  We could still --  different conditions from all week, from the bright sunshine.


Q.  How far was the putt, your first putt on 15? 

PHILLIP PRICE:   Maybe 12 feet. 


Q.  If you did get a U.S. Tour card, would you try to play on both tours like Jesper Parnevik has tried to do? 

PHILLIP PRICE:   Definitely.  I mean, Europe is my hope, unless I win by the end of the year, I want to keep my card in Europe, because that would be my priority, but as soon as I would secure that  -- unless I win, I'll just come straight over.  If I win, I'll just come straight here. 


Q.  You've actually secured it here.

PHILLIP PRICE:   How about for next year?  Oh, you mean  -- well, this is new to me.  So I guess I'll have to find out the ins and outs.


Q.  Is it what you've seen last week and this week, the conditions, courses things like that that's convinced you maybe to try and come over here?

PHILLIP PRICE:   I still need to develop, really.  I see a sports psychiatrist who works in America, Alan Fine.  He says he encourages me to grow and to develop, and I think it would be a great arena for me to develop myself so that I can basically just think a little bitter, so bigger, so that is one of the reasons.


Q.  You didn't win a tournament, but is it a stretch to say that you might be the happiest guy on these grounds right now? 

PHILLIP PRICE:   Probably Justin Leonard, because I've just given him second place.  I'm very happy.  I'm not going to be disappointed; I'll stew on the finish for a little while, but I think overall, the position I finished today is just so much better in a class than I've ever done, so I'll try my best not to be disappointed.


Q.  You may have been asked this before, but did you feel over the last few holes that you were being speeded up out of your normal rhythm? 

PHILLIP PRICE:   No, I would say not.  I would say  -- if I did  -- I felt like we were rushing early in the round, because we lost time straightaway, so I felt like I was making every effort to be as quick as we could today.  But I didn't feel that it was quicker than I wanted to go. 


Q.  In the past, if you haven't been thinking big-time, what have you been thinking about?  Surely, that is  --?

PHILLIP PRICE:   Small-time.  Low expectations.  I think you get what you expect in the long run so, that's what I was getting. 


Q.  You might have been asked this, but if you had known that solo second would have secured your card for next year, would you then have elected not to continue playing? 

PHILLIP PRICE:   No.  I was going to finish.  The experience was enough for me.  I was a bit anxious all day, so I don't want to stew on it all night.  I just want to be finished.


Q.  Could you talk about your third shot on 16? 

PHILLIP PRICE:   Good lie.  I had a chance to either flip it up in the air, but I thought the way the ground sloped, I thought even if I hit a good one, I still could not have been close.  So I just tried to half-chop it out, and I just hit it too hard. 


Q.  How difficult is it to play in the dark like that?  I mean how difficult is it to see the flag, and in your head think:  "This is how hard I want to hit the ball.  This is where I want to land the ball"?

PHILLIP PRICE:   I was lucky, because every shot that I had at the end other than 18, when it started to close in, I could still see the flag with my second shot out of the bunker.  It wasn't quite so easy when I was in the bunker  -- in the green-side bunker and the putt.  But on the long shots, I didn't have any distance shots to gauge distances, or yardage or short shots, so it didn't really interfere. 


Q.  Will you try now and play events down the stretch in the U.S. between now and the end of the year just to make sure you get to that place, or is it too soon for you to figure it out?

PHILLIP PRICE:   I only realized when somebody just mentioned it, so I'll just have to go home and make a decision.  You know, Europe is still very important.  I want to finish as high up as I can on the Order of Merit.  All of my contracts are based in Europe; they are very bonus-related.  I'll need to go home and make a decision.  My wife, I'm sure she'll make it for me.  (Laughter.)


Q.  (Inaudible.)

PHILLIP PRICE:   I really don't know.  I know one of my contracts is fantastic for where I finish in the Order of Merit, and I'm very delighted the way that's going to turn out for me. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT