WGC NEC INVITATIONAL
August 26, 2000
Phillip Price
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   It's been nice this week just to have shown some form.  I probably haven't played well for about two months, and you wonder where it's gone, but there's some good come out of it today.  Hopefully, it will continue. 
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   I think probably for me, because I had done better than I ever had done before, maybe got a little complacent, lost a little bit of sight as to where I was going.  Especially when it gets to the middle of the season, you're not sure what you're aiming at.  I redid what my goals are, and it seems to have sort of got me focused again. 
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   I think obviously, I want to play the Masters next year, Top 50 in the World Rankings, so I'm going to need to move forward for that.   I'd rather not say the rest, if you don't mind.  
 

Q.  Was the reason for your improvement, was it all mental and attitude, as opposed to any mechanical changes that you made?
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   All mental.  
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   I think just the direction I want to go in.  I think because I've been on Tour ten years, I probably have not done as well as I would have liked.  You tend to have your expectations quite low.  So, we decided that we were going to get them right up there, and kind of convinced me that they were possible.  That sort of inspired me a little.  
 

Q.  What's this week been like, just the whole experience of playing this course, the crowds, everything here this week?
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   I've got to say, best one I've ever been to.  The course is fantastic.  It's nice, there's only 38 of us.  Gives you a little bit more room to practice and move around.  I'm just absolutely spoiled.  Everything is just as good as it can be out here.  
 

Q.  Have you worked out all what you need to do to get into the Top 50? 
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   No, I haven't.  Not ranking-pointswise.  I just figured if I played pretty much as I did early season, then I'll probably just about get into the Top 50.  I would say  -- as long as I am somewhere near the Top 7 or 8 on the Order of Merit, I would imagine I would have enough ranking points. 
 

Q.  You said you've been on Tour ten years and you're really not known to the American crowd.  What have you been doing this year that has improved your play to get to this point where you could get to this tournament, and then show, as you have for three rounds, that you've got what it takes? 
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   I went to see a new coach at the end of last year, Dennis Sheehy.  He works on the U.S. Tour.  In fact, he works with Stephen Ames, too.   Transformed my ball hitting.  That was one really big key.  So what that did then was elevated how good I thought I could play.  And then it kind of all went forward from there, really.  
 

Q.  What are you doing different with your ball-hitting this year?  Have you changed like from a draw to a fader or  --?
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   Just a lot more power and a lot -- a big improvement in my ball-striking, the distance.  It obviously helps your confidence.  And then I used to have quite a big draw, so we've straightened that out a little, which has been nice.  
 

Q.  This is a different sort of stage for you.  Are you enjoying this, or are you finding it all sort of a bit  -- different sort of stage for you than normal. 
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   I've never been involved in this, really.  I haven't really played that many majors, either.  This is probably a step up again, probably a step up in the spotlight because there are so few of us.  And for me, although I have been on Tour a long time, I haven't had that much experience.  Regardless of what happens, just being here is invaluable to me, for when I go back to Europe and when I play in other tournaments, I'll feel more comfortable.  
 

Q.  Are you enjoying the experience, or is it all a bit difficult? 
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   A little bit of both.  As I'm playing well, I'm enjoying it.  Obviously with doing well, a lot of expectations and pressure come along with that.  I'll tell you by tomorrow night.  
 

Q.  What is it like having your wife out on Tour with you?  And since this is her first time to America, how has that experience been to you?
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   She's in the back, so I'd better say the right thing.  That's probably one of the other things that's changed.  We met, I think just over two years ago.  And she travelled with me quite soon after we met.  And I found out  -- we talk a lot about how we're going to improve things, and she's like my personal psychologist, I think.  Transformed things, really.  
 

Q.  There was some talk at the beginning of the week that some of the players, some of the European players like Sergio who were left out  -- there was some criticism of how this format was set up.  Do you feel like the way that you're playing right now has validated you being here? 
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   I suppose you could say that.  But I think Sergio and Jesper Parnevik should be here before myself.  But then again, I'm not sure exactly how on the list it went, but I think it was the Top-12 from Europe, and I think I was somewhere between 7 or 8 or 9.  So I don't feel like it was myself who should not be here.  I think a fairer system would be the Top-10 off the Order of Merit, and the top two in the World Ranking, players which would be Jesper and Sergio, which I think would make it fair. 
 

Q.  There's been a lot of bogeys made out there, despite what Tiger is doing and Mickelson.  You seem to  -- especially today, avoid them for the most part.  What are you doing out there?  Is there any kind of like  -- are you like using 3-woods off the tee or something to avoid this bogey-fest that the lower half of the field has been plagued with? 
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   Today I missed quite a lot of fairways and quite a lot of greens today.  The ball, I was not hitting it as well as I would have liked.  But I putted  -- whenever I chipped it on, I seemed to make the putt, other than the last.  I made so many good putts for pars.  Hopefully, I can hit it better, and I don't have to do that tomorrow.  
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   The 2nd, I hit driver, 5-wood just short.  I chipped to about three feet, made birdie.  3rd, I hit driver, sand iron to about 18 feet and made birdie. On 12, I hit a 5-iron to 15 feet and made birdie.  I chipped in for par on 14.   I had a 4-iron to 7 feet on 15.  16, driver, 9-iron, and I hit sand iron in to about five feet.  18, the last, I just missed the fairway, I was expecting a flyer, came up short.  Decided to putt it from just short and putted off the green.  
 

Q.  What's been the highlight of this week so far for you, either on or off the golf course?  Is there any one thing you can pick up? 
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   I think just the  -- the big difference from when we play in Europe is the players are so looked after.  I mean, almost to the extent of being spoiled.  It's just so nice.  I wish we could have a little more of this in Europe.  
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   I think probably  -- it would probably be a zoo out there in the last group.  And I need all the experience I can get, regardless of what goes on tomorrow.  Just the experience of it.  Playing with Tiger would be an experience.  Playing in the next-to-last group will be slightly beneficial and it will help me out. 
 

Q.  Is the money this week at all a factor, because it is more than you usually play for?  I'm sure most of the time you don't even think about it, but this week, is that any different? 
 
PHILLIP PRICE:   I think so.  Especially with such a small field.  The prize money is massive.  A good week is just a big, big paycheck.  I do think of the money.  And with such a small field, you know, you've got a better chance.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT