NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SENATORS v SABRES
May 14, 2007
Daniel Alfredsson
Ray Emery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Ray, how difficult was it to play a game like that where you're going long stretches with no shots but then getting a couple of pretty good ones? 
 RAY EMERY:  Like I said, we played a great defensive game, and I think it really generated many, many chances, and Miller was playing really well, too.  So it's not like we had that cushion.  It's definitely, you know, a game you have to remind yourself to stay focused and stay mentally sharp in there because you never know when you're going to get a chance. 

 Q.  Is this - I'm looking at the stat sheet.  Is this one of those games like football, the quarterback takes the offensive line out, you take the defensemen out?  There's 13 blocked shots out here as well.  They made your life fairly easy tonight. 
 RAY EMERY:  Definitely.  We're a really good defensive team, but that was exceptional there.  I don't want to say that's out of the ordinary because guys are always blocking shots and doing their best defensively.  But that game was really, you know, a shutdown.  They did a great job tonight playing really responsible defense. 

 Q.  Ray, are you at all surprised to be in this position, to be one game away from the Stanley Cup final?  You've lost only two games? 
 RAY EMERY:  I don't think I'm surprised.  I think we were capable of playing great hockey like that and beating any team, but, you know, nothing is guaranteed and it's kind of performing, that it's great the way the guys have performed.  Everyone has stuck to the game plan to a man pretty much throughout the playoffs, and that's the reason for the success. 

 Q.  Can you speak about how special it might be to get a shutout against every team you've played in the playoffs? 
 RAY EMERY:  You know, it's great that we played those type games, played that type of game in every series, but, you know, I just want to win games.  I don't care. 

 Q.  Ray, is it any sweeter for you that some of the Buffalo media and fans have been saying you were maybe the weak link in the Senators.  Does it feel any better getting a shut off, given there's a bit it of that going in Buffalo? 
 RAY EMERY:  I don't know.  It's a testament to the team how well we played and how well we shut teams down.  But no, you know, I don't want to win for Buffalo fans or anything.  We want to win for each other and for the fans and the city. 
 DANIEL ALFREDSSON 
Q.  Alfie, you've now got a goal in five playoff games.  Say something about that, the way you've been playing. 
 DANIEL ALFREDSSON:  I think our line has been playing pretty good throughout the playoffs, and I've been at the right place at the right time a few times now, and, you know, it was nice to get that first one tonight, that's for sure. 

 Q.  Can you describe what you were thinking when you got the puck where it was, the weird play because of the bounces. 
 DANIEL ALFREDSSON:  I think we had a good break out even, and Spezza pulled up the blue line, and I drove to the net.  And he took it, and it took a good bounce, and I was just going to the front, maybe waiting for a bounce, and it came right in front. 

 Q.  Alfie, what's the difference between this year and last year?  Last year you weren't scoring the way you are, and this year the crowds are shouting "Alfie, Alfie, Alfie." 
DANIEL ALFREDSSON:  I think I'm a better player this year.  I think the second half I had was good for my confidence.  I felt confident going into the playoffs.  I didn't feel like I had to prove anything, just go throughout and play hard and things -- good things were going to happen. 
 I think the whole team has played really well, and even though our line has been doing most of the scoring, it feels like every night they go out and play hard and creates momentum. 

 Q.  You've been in every playoff game.  What's the difference this last year?  How did all a sudden it click? 
 DANIEL ALFREDSSON:  I made some equipment changes when I was injured before Christmas, and I changed skates, and that was a big thing for me.  I'm stronger on my skates.  I feel like I have better balance and I can handle the puck better as well.  So, yeah, I think I'm a different player than I was last year. 

 Q.  Daniel, I apologize if you've been asked this, but could you just speak to the overall sense of confidence on your team right now.  The way you're playing right now, is it even strength -- 
DANIEL ALFREDSSON:  I think we're confident.  We're very respectful of our opponent.  I don't think we take anything for granted.  I think that's the biggest thing.  We respect the other team so much and we know that they're a dangerous team.  Specially Buffalo with their record this year, we have to be on our toes, and I think we know we have to play hard every shift, and we do that. 

 Q.  In the first period you created so much room on the power play, almost really looked like you were shooting it around.  Why did you have so much room on the power play AO especially in the advertise first period? 
 DANIEL ALFREDSSON:  I think they did a better job killing penalties today.  They put more pressure on us.  We did move the puck pretty good maybe in the first.  I don't really remember that, but I think that's something we'll probably work on before next game, our power play, because it could have put the game away for us today. 

 Q.  We asked you this all the time, but being up 3-0, do you really have to remind yourself now that it's not over? 
 DANIEL ALFREDSSON:  No.  I don't feel so.  I think we know.  I think everybody has been very professional throughout the playoffs.  Like I said, we respect the other team very much.  I don't think we're taking anything for granted.  I think every game is a new game, and that's the way we've got to approach it. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT