NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: DEVILS v SENATORS
May 21, 2003
Daniel Alfredsson
Patrick Lalime
Chris Phillips
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   Both guys, can you talk about how far you have come since you left this building last and what you feel going into Game 7 momentum-wise? 

PATRICK LALIME:  Well, I think we played well the last game I think here before we left even if we lost 5-2, I thought we did some good things.  Results were not there, but since then I think we are playing some good hockey.  They are a good team.  It's a big battle out there, but we got one more to win.  One one I agree.  It's a battle out there every night.  It's two good hockey clubs going at it at the highest level.  Both teams, last couple of games, powerplay scored some big goals for us to get us going.  Whenever we can score some goals we're a good team.


Q.   Can you talk about how much it helps to be at home for a 7th game? 

PATRICK LALIME:  Well, I am sure it will be great.  I know the fans were pretty loud for Game 5 at home.  It's a plus, that's what we work all year for.  It's no gimme, that's for sure.  We'll have to bring our best game to the series even if we're at home.  We just have to play like we did tonight.


Q.   It seems like you guys have been able to free up your speed a little more by chips and puts behind their defensemen  -- has that been a key for you? 

DANIEL ALFREDSSON:  We have been trying to do that all series long.  I don't think it's any different in last few games.  I think the difference has been we have been getting the first goal and it had opened the game up a bit.  Everybody knows how important it is to get that first goal.  Doesn't matter if you are at home or on the road.  We got that tonight and that gave us a lot of momentum and they got one back, but I thought you know, in overtime both teams had some good chances but we prevailed and got the winner.


Q.   A lot was made about the motivational speech by Roger before the last game.  Was anything said before tonight's game that registered - whether it was from a player or a coach? 

DANIEL ALFREDSSON:  Mostly made the point  -- there was no reason winning Game 5 and playing as well as we did if we couldn't squeeze out another great effort here.  We knew it wasn't going to be easy, and they were undefeated at home.  We just wanted to make sure that we went out and gave it our best, didn't leave anything behind, and I think we did that tonight, we got a contribution from everybody, everybody got going, and if you want to have any chance against this team that's what you need. 


Q.   On that same theme the Devils really seemed to come out flying in overtime and probably had the better of chances early in overtime.  Can you talk about how key Patrick Lalime's play was tonight? 

DANIEL ALFREDSSON:  They got probably two or three odd-man rushes in overtime and we wanted to get that goal early and it kind of backfired .  We weren't giving up any odd-man rushes all game long; then in overtime it was just a wide open game.  Patrick made some key saves for us on Gionta and Elias one time, but after that I thought we composed ourselves and we were able to create some good chances for ourselves.  A great play, great goal, driving wide, beating their "D" and then joining the rebound.  Perfect goal. 


Q.   Who faces more pressure going into Game 7, which team? 

DANIEL ALFREDSSON:  It doesn't really matter.  I think who cares, to be honest.  Both teams definitely want to win.  They had a good chance of finishing the series.  They were up 3-1 but both teams still have another chance.  We like our odds going back home but we know we are going to have to be better and there's no way around it.  They are a veteran team that's going to come to Ottawa and play their best.


Q.   You are going to be asked, I am sure, about the goal but tell me how are the Ottawa Senators are different now than they were four days ago?

CHRIS PHILLIPS: Well, I mean, we're obviously very happy right now with the situation we are in.  We have been in two elimination games being down 3-1 and we're going home for Game 7 and that's you know, exactly what we set out to do a few days ago. 


Q.   Can you take us through the goal?

CHRIS PHILLIPS: Well, it kind of started out as a 2-on-2.  Hossa had some great speed going to the outside.  Everything kind of just opened up for me and you know, I wasn't there right away, but the puck got thrown to the front of the net and it was sitting there for a while and I was able to just get in there and get a whack at it, and I didn't even realize it went in until the other guys started celebrating.


Q.   Your coach talked today about character and determination that's now on this team that hadn't been here in the past.  Can you talk a little bit about that and how that played into these last two games?

CHRIS PHILLIPS: Well, there's no question that you know, even when we were down 3-1, there was not one guy in our dressing room or organization that had counted ourselves out.  Obviously we still have a big task in front of us with Game 7, but everyone has really just buckled down and been totally committed on winning and what we have to do to win.  And it's paid off the last couple of games.


Q.   Some fans had counted the team out down 3-1.  What have you shown them?

CHRIS PHILLIPS: Well, here we are, we're still playing, and I am sure that they are just as excited, if not more back in Ottawa more than what we are, and can't wait to step into the Corel Center on Friday night and hear how loud it is going to be.


Q.   Can you talk a little bit about Hossa's performance tonight and your feelings about how he's played through this series through tough checking?

CHRIS PHILLIPS: He has been solid for us.  Like you said, with everyone keying on him every time he gets the puck, he's getting hit, they are letting him know, you know, that he doesn't have the time and space to make plays, but he's fought through it and really been a big leader for us.


Q.   It seemed the beginning of the game both teams were really tentative; I think a few of us expected the Devils to come out a little stronger like the way you guys came out on Monday night.  Were you surprised at all in the pace of the game in the beginning?

CHRIS PHILLIPS: I really wasn't.  They have been  -- I mean they have been playing like that for a few years now.  They are a very patient team.  They don't make a lot of mistakes and they wait for us or for the other team to make a mistake to capitalize on it.  That just showed the team they are, you know, coming back and waiting for their opportunity, they got one on the powerplay and tied up the game.  That's exactly the way they play and we are prepared for that.


Q.   You mentioned how loud it is going to be Friday night.  Do you think you guys have an edge at all going in with the momentum of two straight wins?

CHRIS PHILLIPS: Well, you are right, now we sure feel like we have the momentum but once the puck is dropped, it's a new game and you know, it's not going to be easy.  Every game in this series has been a battle and I expect no different on Friday.


Q.   You said something after Game 5 to the effect of this is taking everything we have.  To what degree is what this is taking out of you guys more than anything you guys have had to give in the past, is this sort of a new level?

CHRIS PHILLIPS: Well, it's funny when you look back at the last few years when we have been eliminated and you come in the next year and you say now we know what it takes, I don't think we could honestly answer that back then.  Now that we know what it really does take, you know, you said it, that it takes every guy leaving everything out there on the ice.  You can't take one shift off it, it could cost you the game, the series, your season, and it really does just take everything. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT