NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: SENATORS v DUCKS
June 4, 2007
Daniel Alfredsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Your thoughts on that.  What happened after the first period?  You looked like you guys had some real good control of that game?  
 DANIEL ALFREDSSON:  We had a great first period and didn't play a very good second period, and they got us in a bit of a hole.  We took some penalties and lost all momentum, basically.  But finally Heatley scored, and we were going to get back in the third period, but one mistake they won the game. 

 Q.  What's the mood with the message? 
 DANIEL ALFREDSSON:  Right now it's pretty tough.  I'm sure we will leave tomorrow, go forward.  I mean it's not over and we definitely are not going to give up.  It's tough to lose this one tonight. 

 Q.  Can you describe what happened at the end of the second period?  Seemed like out of your character that you would intentionally shoot the puck? 
 DANIEL ALFREDSSON:  Yeah, I looked up at the clock, five six seconds left.  I am going to shoot the puck, the puck kind of stops.  I didn't mean to hit him, and it's - didn't mean to hit him. 

 Q.  Did you see him?  
 DANIEL ALFREDSSON:  I saw him.  I wanted to shoot the puck away. 

 Q.  Did this change your angle? 
 DANIEL ALFREDSSON:  I wanted to shoot at the net first.  The puck stopped.  I got it in my feet.  It's two seconds left; I just want to get rid of it. 

 Q.  (A question regarding the ice.) 
 DANIEL ALFREDSSON:  The same for both teams? 

 Q.  (Question off microphone)? 
 DANIEL ALFREDSSON:  Like I said, it's pretty tough right now.  We just gotta regroup tomorrow and try to win one in California.  And if we do that, we come back and go from there. 

 Q.  What's the difference between the first and second period?  The first period you were fine, second period you came up flat? 
 DANIEL ALFREDSSON:  It's all about momentum.  We had it all the first period.  We were all over them.  Couldn't score more than one goal.  That's basically the second.  We didn't do a good job getting the puck in deep.  Same thing; they've been doing the first.  Two good teams and that's going to happen.  

 Q.  How big a role is this playing? 
 DANIEL ALFREDSSON:  Two games.  We're behind two games.  We won three in a row before.  So I think it's going to be tough for us.  But I'm sure we're just going to look at the stats and history is not with us.  We're just going to go probably one game at a time. 

 Q.  You got Dany, go over that, getting him back into the groove.  
 DANIEL ALFREDSSON:  He scored a big goal for us to get back in the game there and get some momentum going into the third and unfortunately we couldn't get the winning goal in the third.  We make a mistake and they come two-on-one and that's the difference.  
 Yeah, we dumped it in.  Both me and Fisher got on the wall.  I think Fisher got it down to Schaefer on the net; I was able to find an open slot.  Beat the buzzer.  We got something really going.  We had a great first period, but we didn't follow that up really good in the second.  

 Q.  What happened in the second and the third you guys just stopped skating? 
 DANIEL ALFREDSSON:  In the third, I don't think we were bad.  The third was back and forth.  We make one bad move and the defensemen - that's the way it goes.  We're not finding ways to win right now. 

 Q.  The end of the second period looked like you shot it right at Scott Niedermayer.  Did you? 
 DANIEL ALFREDSSON:  No, I looked up at the clock.  It's five, six seconds left.  I want to shoot the puck. 
 The puck it stops gliding, it's in my feet I had to change and I wanted to get the puck in the net. 

 Q.  When you guys do head to Anaheim, what do you say on the plane to each other? 
 DANIEL ALFREDSSON:  Tonight it's very hard.  We regroup have a tough challenge ahead of us.  I think, you know, we're playing for the Stanley Cup so we're not going to stop playing. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT