PLAYSTATION FIESTA BOWL: OHIO STATE VS CLEMSON
December 28, 2016
Tyquan Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TYQUAN LEWIS: Coach Mick, he's going to try to get everything out of you the Wednesday, mad drills or the Harley Davidson work outs, or the St. Valentine's Day Massacre.  All those workouts and preseason training camp, summer runs, all those things bring us together even more because you have guys who like are almost broken down but you have guys like me or other leaders on the team who pick each other up and show love and care for one another.  And that's what makes us special.   
 Q.  How about the hard times emotionally.  For example, let me ask you this, would you say you felt more angry and hurt and frustrated about Michigan State loss last year or the Penn State loss this year?  
TYQUAN LEWIS: I treat every loss the same.  Just that loss in the pit of my stomach that I just can't seem to get over.  I say, like, this year, this is this year, not looking back at last year.   
I mean, we move forward from that Penn State loss and we came out and we practiced and we played well the next week.  Because we have to get it out of us.  That's just what we can't do, we wanted to come out and dominate.   
 Q.  That's the interesting thing about this.  You guys were almost the exact same thing.  You were really talented team last year.  Have one loss.  Didn't win the Big Ten but you didn't make the playoff.  A lot of people thought you should.  This year it's almost the same scenario but you did make the playoff.  It's kind of the randomness of the system.  Have you guys thought much about that?  It's like you kind of don't have control sometimes.  
TYQUAN LEWIS: We don't really think much about it, because like you said we don't have any control over that.  So I mean we control our own destiny.  But sometimes it's just not in our reach.  So that was the main thing for us.   
 Q.  Talk about the game, what do you expect out there?  What do you expect for the team from that standpoint?  
TYQUAN LEWIS: It's going to be a very, very good game up front, because, like I said, they're very good at what they do, have great coaches, great players.  I mean, they probably have a great culture built just like us and it's our culture versus their culture.  And defensively speaking, we come ready to play every weekend.  We practice very hard and these are the moments we live for as a defense.   
 Q.  Talk about the Fiesta Bowl, all the stuff surrounding it that you guys are doing and going from place to place, talking to the media and all this?  
TYQUAN LEWIS: The Fiesta Bowl, it's a great place.  I love Arizona.  It's my second time here.  And last year I liked it a lot.  Obviously the Buckeyes, we're very familiar with the Fiesta Bowl.  Coming here, it's like almost like a second home.  We have so many, like, Buckeye fans surrounding it.   
It's just a great time to be here.  I appreciate everyone who, like, supported us through this time and allowing us to be here and just ready for the game now.   
 Q.  Is this a long week or a quick week?  
TYQUAN LEWIS: Since we're not playing on the first or the second or the third, it's kind of sort of like a quick week, because we just got back on Christmas Day and now we have to practice the next morning.  And like everything's like kind of sort of sped up a little bit.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT