NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v HEAT
June 3, 2012
Doc Rivers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Doc, when you look at video of the last couple of games, are you seeing a difference in Ray Allen in terms of movement, things of that nature? 
COACH DOC RIVERS:   You know, I guess.   I don't know.   I just think he's more comfortable with what's going on with his ankle and foot.   So, yeah, I guess that would be a difference.   I think he's kind of figured out his balance issue.   I think he's shooting it quicker with better balance, which is good. 

Q.   When you made the decision to go with Marquis Daniels, talk about what went into that decision, and why that time was the right time to go to him. 
COACH DOC RIVERS:   Listen, it takes me sometimes a game to make a decision.   Sometimes I make it right away.   We talked about it during Game 1, actually, a lot, and did more in Game 2. 
So going into Game 3, we already made the decision that we needed to add an extra player just more for rest than anything else.   You know, you had to make the choice between Marquis and Sasha at that point, and we pretty much all agreed on Marquis. 

Q.   Doc, people talk about adjustments in the playoff series.   Obviously Rondo had a good game against Miami, and they consistently played him by sagging off of him.   Do you expect that type of thing to change?   And then going forward with Kevin as well? 
COACH DOC RIVERS:   One of the things they did late, and I'm surprised that they trapped him a couple of times, which we haven't seen that coverage.   I don't know if we're going to see a steady diet of that, honestly.   They did so many things in the fourth quarter, and I think more of it was because they were down, that from our standpoint you have to kind of think, is that what they're going to do now, or did they do that because they were down by the amount they were, they were trying different things? 
For a staff we try to decipher what they feel worked in doing all the things they did, and try to take it from that.   We just try to prepare for change, but you never should make a change first before they make a change.   You almost have to play off of each other. 

Q.   I'll ask you about Paul:   How do you think his knee is holding up? 
COACH DOC RIVERS:   I think he's fine.   Like I said, it is what it is.   I think he's clearly played better, and you can see it in his play.   He's moving faster.   I know he's not shooting a high percentage in this series, but he's had great shots.   And the last two games, especially, he's had terrific shots.   He's getting to the elbow, his little pull‑up jumpshot.   At the end of the day, that's all you can ask for. 
I'm sure guarding LeBron‑‑ and he's guarded LeBron the bulk of the minutes on the floor; my guess that's probably taken a little bit out of his offense. 

Q.   What did you think about Tiger's shot on the 16th? 
COACH DOC RIVERS:   It was unbelievable.   Oh, yeah, I was watching.   I was trying to leave my house to get here, and it delayed me for a couple of minutes, but that's fine.   That's really cool. 
You see, that's one of the best questions you've asked.   Thank you very much. 

Q.   I don't know if you know, but with four assists last game, Paul Pierce became the fourth Celtic in history to have 2,500 points and 500 assists in the playoffs.   Could you just talk about, A, his evolution, and B, what it is to be in the company of Larry Bird, John Havlicek and Bill Russell? 
COACH DOC RIVERS:   Yeah, I mean, it's amazing.   Obviously, I didn't know, because you know, I don't look at a lot of that stuff.   I tend to try to ignore it, but it says a lot of things in the game:   It says you've been around here a long time, that you're pretty old, but that you're pretty good, and that you've had a great career. 
I think the biggest change in Paul is the play‑making part.   I thought the first several years he pretty much felt like he had to score every time he touched the ball.   I thought that changed five or six years ago.   He's been fantastic.   He just is a terrific player.   I don't think he ever gets the credit that he probably deserves, because he's not flashy.   He doesn't look like he can jump and he can.   He doesn't look quick, and he is.   But he just kind of keeps going along and playing well. 
Thanks, guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT