NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v HEAT
May 30, 2012
Doc Rivers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Ray shooting this morning, do you go out of your way to check in and see how he is?   Or do you just assume that Ray is fine, Ray is good to go, or as good as he's going to be?   
COACH DOC RIVERS:   No, I don't check at all.   I assume that if he wasn't, someone would tell me.   At least I hope they would.   I don't even ask how he shot the ball or anything.   He's good.   
   
 Q.   Doc, with the rebounding discrepancy, I know your philosophy is to get back.   But because it was so big, do you change your philosophy a little bit from the offensive rebound side?   
COACH DOC RIVERS:   No, no, not at all.   We don't mind offensive rebounds.   We just want you to be under the basket to try to do it.   We don't like guys going from outside the paint crashing in, and if you don't get it, you have no chance of getting back.   
I think it's more important, especially in this series, honestly, to take them out of transition.   So if we can do that and we don't get as many offensive rebounds, I'm happy.   The problem was we didn't offensive rebound, and they still beat us in transition.   So those two things can't happen.   
   
 Q.   Doc, specifically, I guess, based off the zone, but just in particular, what's your philosophy as a coach in terms of trying to do what you ordinarily do or try to do something that might be necessary because of the circumstances?   
COACH DOC RIVERS:   I tend to do what we do.   Again, if we do play some zone‑‑ we've been doing it all year.   We just haven't played it in the games, really.   We've worked on it every single shoot‑around before every game we have had, we've had a zone segment.   And we have played it this year, honestly.   We just haven't done it a lot.   
But I am not a believer‑‑ I don't think you can recreate the wheel and then go in and try to play.   
   
 Q.   How do you stop or prevent or do something when LeBron is leaking down the other side of the court on a shot when you want to prevent Wade throwing the baseball pass and him wide?   Is there anything you can do about that?   
COACH DOC RIVERS:   Yeah, on the release of the shot, someone should be back.   When we watch the one play on film, three guys were mad at themselves, because on the release of the shot, if you're not involved, you should be getting back.   And we didn't do it.   Three guys went forward on that play.   
So it takes a great amount of discipline to do one on every possession.   We clearly didn't do it on that one.   
I love you guys.   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT