LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 5, 2020
Doc Rivers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:   We'll take questions for Doc.
Q. I'm sure you're not surprised by this, but President Trump said today that it's disgraceful NBA players are kneeling during the national anthem, and because of that he stopped watching games.  What is your comment about that?
DOC RIVERS:   We lost one guy (laughter).  I mean, so what?  Really, I don't even care.
We know that justice is on our side, right?  This hat that I'm wearing is what our president is trying to get us to not do, which I think is just as disgraceful.
Q. The NBA just came out and said there were again zero positive coronavirus tests within the bubble.  As you continue to see that, are you feeling more secure or do you still feel like you have to be proactive?
DOC RIVERS:   I think the proactive part is still the most important thing that we have to do.  The NBA has done an amazing job, right?  They've been great.  They're on us.  They're making us wear our masks.  We got these bands here that we got to walk through and get registered.  We get tested every day.  We have to do a health app every day.  The NBA is doing all the things that we need to do.  We just got to stay on it.  They've been sensational.
But this whole virus, it's a lot about self-control, self-discipline as well.  I think not only has the league, but I think the players and everyone, they've followed through.  We got to just keep trying to do that.
Q. As you look ahead at these next few games, the Playoffs are just under two weeks away, what are the things that you think the team needs to shore up and improve before that time?
DOC RIVERS:   All the players in the gym (laughter).  Number one, I just want all our guys working on execution, try to get our stuff together.  We're here, we're almost all here.  But that's the most important thing we all need, is everybody in the gym at the same time.
Q. There's a lot of animals around here, gators, raccoons.  Have you had any interesting interactions?
DOC RIVERS:   I've had no interactions with the gators.  I saw a snake.  No, I used to live here a long time.  I know all about the wildlife of Florida.  I'm from Chicago.  I've learned long ago the wildlife, it's their home court.  Inside the building is my home court and I'm going to stay there (smiling).
Q. What does it say about all the guys and yourself, how much they gave up to be here in the bubble, putting their lives on hold?
DOC RIVERS:   Yeah, I mean, it's impressive because it's not just one or two people, it's an entire league.  It's not just the players either, it's the staffs, the NBA staffs, the officials.  I mean, everyone has put their life on hold to do something they love, all right, to do their job, but to do it right.
I think it's just very impressive.  I couldn't be more prouder.  I said it last week, I couldn't be more prouder of our league and our players and everyone involved.  It's just been unbelievable.
Q. I see guys FaceTiming their kids.  If you're not inside, you don't get what's going on here.  They're still staying in touch with people.
DOC RIVERS:   It's tough.  Every day you try to call a family member, FaceTiming, family FaceTime.  It is what it is.  Our guys are dealing with it.  They're handling their business.  They're doing their jobs.
They've never practiced this much in their lives.  From a coach standpoint, I'm all good with that part, all right?  They also have never been away from their families this much in their lives.  You see it all the time, guys are walking in practice with their phones on.  Guys are reading stories.  I know a couple guys have dinner in their room with the family at the table.  I mean, they're just doing stuff to try to be with their family.
It's not the easiest thing, but it's real, and they're doing it.
Q. We talked all season about how you guys have not been able to be whole, you're just trying to get everybody together.  You know about championship chemistry.  Is there a certain amount of games that guys need to be together before the Playoffs start, any indicators you look for championship qualities, how you can develop this chemistry?  Can it be developed in the Playoffs?
DOC RIVERS:   It can be.  It's happened before.  In our case it's going to have to be.  There's no one thing that you look at.
It's funny, I told our team a while ago, you know we're a team when you see it.  It's sometimes hard to explain, but you know it.  We're still working on becoming that.
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Doc.
DOC RIVERS:   Thanks, guys.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT