LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 4, 2020
Doc Rivers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Suns 117, Clippers 115
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Doc.
 Q. Obviously the last turnover notwithstanding, Zub had a breakout game in the bubble.  What did you see from him?
 DOC RIVERS:   I thought he was good, honestly.  I thought as a group we just had so many mental errors.  Zub was included in that.  So his numbers were great, but he's a better player than he even played today.
 Q. I think more than half the games so far inside the bubble have been close games.  Is there any reason why that is?  Obviously no separation tonight in this game.  The Lakers game was close.  Do you have any guess as to why?
 DOC RIVERS:   No.  I just think both teams have been pretty prepared.  We've had a lot of practice time together.  Maybe that's it.  But I'm not sure why.
 Q. Did you see what you expected to out of Lou?  Do you think having this game will help him sort of get his legs back under him?
 DOC RIVERS:   I think it will help him, for sure.  I thought Lou was okay.  Obviously didn't have great timing.  Played probably more minutes than I thought he could.  I was happy with that.
 Q. Paul didn't have his usual night from beyond the arc like previous nights.  He said after the last game he's been struggling to make twos where he's making threes.  Any way for you to help him mix that up?
 DOC RIVERS:   No.  I mean, just the stuff we run, he'll be able to mix that up on his own.
 Give Phoenix credit.  I thought they played so much harder than us throughout the game.  I thought they contested a lot of shots.  I thought they ran guys.
 I thought P.G. did get good looks, he just didn't make them tonight.  That just happens.
 Q. What are your thoughts on Kawhi?  He was very aggressive late in the game once you got down.  Thoughts on having a player like that, his mentality in the last six minutes of the game?
 DOC RIVERS:   It's great to be able to lean on somebody like that.  We needed every basket, obviously, that he got late down in the game.  I thought it was great.
 Q. Do you have an update on Pat?
 DOC RIVERS:   I think it's a calf, but I don't think it's bad.  We're going to be very cautious, I can tell you that.
 THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Doc.
 DOC RIVERS:   Thanks, guys.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT