LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
July 22, 2020
Doc Rivers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Was wondering, who is available today, and do you have anything planned for the coaches and players what you guys might do social justice-wise during the nation anthem?
DOC RIVERS:   Well, there is no National Anthem today that I know of.  And no, I don't have talk about who I'm playing or who is not playing.  I have an idea.
Q. Obviously you're not saying firmly who is playing and who is not playing, but with your absences in the backcourt, is Reggie Jackson somebody that we're probably going to see a little more of today than otherwise?
DOC RIVERS:   Not going to play anybody more minutes.  We have enough guys.  So we just will spread it around.  You've got to be very careful.
Again, we had a lot of off-time, and now we've had a lot of practices, which is great.  But we still have a little minute thing with every single player right now, so no one is going to go with the minutes that we've already determined just because someone else is not here.
Q. Athletes interested in ownership -- do you have any sense that might be in the cards for him down the line?
DOC RIVERS:   Well, I think he did great.  I know Kevin and that is something he's always wanted.  You know, I think part of the thing is, I thought he had it nailed earlier with Minnesota and it didn't work out.
I would love to see Garnett and more players get into the ownership ring.  It would be awesome.
Q. What lies ahead in the next three scrimmages for some other guys on the roster?
DOC RIVERS:   Just playing time right now.  They have guys ahead of them as far as getting in the rotation, but we are willing to play everybody -- you know me -- to win a game.
So we are looking at all of them.  Terance has had a great week.  Amir has been phenomenal this week.  We've just got to get to them and keep working.
Q. Wondering for the first live action in about 134 days, do you get a sense your guys are excited to scrimmage against other faces and people except themselves?
DOC RIVERS:   You know, I don't get a sense either way right now.  I think, again, we talked about this being a scrimmage for so long, I think most of the players thought it was a scrimmage.  Now I think it's basically a preseason game, you know, but it will be fun.  I think at least from a coaching perspective, it would be nice to see our guys play against somebody else.  I think that will be fun, and eventually, that will get competitive.
Q. As you take these scrimmage games, will you ramp intensity up or is that reserved for those eight playing games that you all have to have?
DOC RIVERS:   Yeah, listen, we are going to use these games to get ready for the real games.  You always want your guys to play with intensity, whether it be practice scrimmages or whatever.  But you want them to play at their peak or whatever?  No.  It's fine if they do.  I'm fine with that.  That means that we are further ahead than you think.  I think these games are really serve, from my perspective, is just to find out where we are, what we need to work on, and what works.
Q. Leaving the team for personal reasons -- how tough is it for a guy the last couple years, to prepare for the first game here --
DOC RIVERS:   It's not that hard.  Listen, all our guys have missed games.  And so we have that step-up mentality.  You know, somebody else has to step up and provide the way for us, so we'll just keep doing that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT