LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
July 22, 2020
Doc Rivers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just the experience today, Lou talked about how on the bench it was different than when he was playing, how he noticed the video boards when he was sitting behind, had that perspective, but once he was on the court, it all kind of melted away and it was just basketball.  From your perspective, what was the atmosphere like as you were focused on the game but also seeing everything around you?
DOC RIVERS:   Well, you know, it's different when you walk out on the floor but once the game starts, it's just basketball.  You know, I think it's easier for a coach because you're pretty much focused that way, anyway.
It was interesting to see the players -- early on, I thought all the players sat in their seats and as the game went on, everyone was together.
I think that's the only thing that we're probably going to have to change a little bit is the bench seating.  It's not like we are next to each other every day in practice or practicing against each other every day.  So it's just a natural thing that the players are going to start being around each other, and I thought that was great.
Overall, I thought our spirit was great, you know, in the game and one of the things that is new is you can hear your teammates cheering for you and talking on the floor.  So I thought that was okay.
Q. What do you think of Noah's performance today, particularly his screening and his passing?
DOC RIVERS:   He's an elite passer.  We already knew that.  What I love was the screening and rolling.  He is so used to coming towards the ball and getting the ball, and we are asking him to do something completely different, and that's screen-and-roll more.  So he's still getting used to it, but I thought today overall, he did a great job.
And he also is starting to notice the more talent we have on the floor, the more they are going to double-team.  You give him the ball in the middle of the paint, he's just a great decision-maker.
Q. What's your expectation when you look at the big picture of what the process is for the guys to get the conditioning you want, and how do you approach it overall?
DOC RIVERS:   Yeah, I don't know the answer.  I'm glad we have these three games.  We have eight more games before the playoffs.  I think just for my perspective, from just going through this one preseason game, we absolutely need those games, all of us.
You know, it's like Lou was saying, man, I've been running by butt off for two months, but it's nothing like a game, you know, and you could see the first three or four minutes, everyone was tugging.  They were a little tired.
So it will catch up quickly.  I think their rhythm will come.
Q. Is this the way it's all gone down there, you don't know what to expect, and then out there, don't know what to expect --
DOC RIVERS:   Yeah, exactly, and the games are the games.  Once you get in between the lines, you know, you can make a case, that's probably as comfortable as the players will ever be, or as normal as everything will ever be because once they get between the lines, it's a basketball game.
So I think you could see that.  You could see the rust and all that.  For them, they were back in their natural habitat.
Q. The league announced they will be doing the award voting coming up this weekend.  Trez and Lou are on track to have they been overshadowed?  How good have they been this year?
DOC RIVERS:   Amazing.  I think they have been better because they are still doing it, and they are doing it together now.
You know, so I don't even know with the award stuff -- I never do.  I'm the worst guy to ask, as you know.  But as far as those two getting the award together, as a coach, that would be a dream for me.  I would love that.  I would love to see that.  I think it would be a great statement, too.
Q. With the fanless atmosphere, anything you noticed that you might have to adapt to?
DOC RIVERS:   No, the play calling is easy.  I called several plays -- most of the plays without getting up.  That was kind of nice, actually.  I even had a conversation with Zach and James, the officials, sitting down.
So maybe I'll have a better voice by the end of this, who knows.
Q. Do you get any early sense of who on your team might thrive in this unique environment?
DOC RIVERS:   I don't think anyone is going to be better because we are playing in this environment.  I think the great players are going to still be the great players.  The role players are going to be the role players.  And the best team is going to win.  That's how I look at it, and it's going to come down to guys playing basketball, doing all the little things, and it would be no difference in that way if there's fans.
So I don't think anyone is going to be able to take advantage of this situation and be better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT