NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND ONE: WARRIORS v CLIPPERS
May 1, 2014
Doc Rivers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Very hard for young teams to close out a series.   Some of your guys have had some experience with that.   What is your feeling about the difficulty of closing something out?   
COACH RIVERS:   Well, it's hard.   I'm hoping our guys don't, but I think what teams do is start thinking about that instead of the process.   You have to stay focused on the process and do your job.   If you do your job and stay focused on the process, the results will happen.   But I hate when I hear guys talking about the results first, and that's usually a recipe for disaster, honestly.   So I'm hoping we do it right and do it the right way.  
   
 Q.   Doc, we always hear coaches talk about who has the pressure and who doesn't have the pressure.   But Mark said he thinks the pressure is on you guys to finish it out and to avoid having a Game 7.   Do you feel that at all?   Do you think your team feels that at all?   
COACH RIVERS:   I'm good with that.   Yeah, I mean, whatever.   I think the pressure is on us every night, so I'm fine with that.   Pressure is good.   Yeah, it's good.  
   
 Q.   Why can you slow down Stephen Curry some nights and not others?   
COACH RIVERS:   Because he's Stephen Curry.   He's really good.   Sometimes I think we slow him down; sometimes I think he becomes human and he misses shots.   He's one of the greatest shooters I've ever seen.   We're trying to just keep a big body in his face every time, but when he gets loose, especially in transition, he's deadly.   We've limited our turnovers for the most part, and it seems like we've done them in bunches in this series, and that's when they make runs.   
But he's just a very difficult guy to guard.   It would be easier if he couldn't dribble, but the guy can shoot and dribble, you know, and that's what makes him so good.   And he can come off picks without the ball, so he's just a very difficult guy to game plan for.  
   
 Q.   A couple days ago you guys were getting a ton of attention, not for the right ways.   It seems like now with billionaires lining up to try to buy the franchise, people may be lining up to root you on.   You've sort of become this underdog story that people are behind.   Do you guys feel that or appreciate that?   
COACH RIVERS:   We appreciate it, yeah.   I don't feel the billionaires.   I don't feel that at all, but you hear about it.   
Honestly, I've probably missed a lot of it because I've done a pretty good job of just not knowing what's going on.   Just kind of living in my own little world, but I hear it.   It's great.   You've still got to go play.   No matter what happens, you've still got to go play, and that's going to be the key for us.  
   
 Q.   Doc, any reaction to the unanimous vote by the owners that met today on the conference call?   
COACH RIVERS:   Didn't know it.   Was it today?   I didn't even know that.   What is the vote?   
   
 Q.   They voted unanimously to go forward with the process of removing.   
COACH RIVERS:   No reaction.   I mean, you're not surprised by that.   That's good for them.   I think there is a lot of work to be done in that area, and I'm just going to try to stay out of that area.  
   
 Q.   Mrs.Sterling is supposed to be at the game tonight.   Do you think that will be a major distraction for your players?   
COACH RIVERS:   I don't think that's true.  
   
 Q.   Why not?   
COACH RIVERS:   I mean, I don't think she's going to be here.   I don't think it's true is what I'm saying.  
   
 Q.   Can you just talk about the work that Kevin Johnson has done?   
COACH RIVERS:   He's been great.   He's been great.   It will be interesting.   I'm assuming he's going to have a very difficult choice coming up, whether he wants to continue to be the mayor of Sacramento or the president of the Players Association.   That's tough because you've got where he's from and all that.   I don't know if that's true.   I'm just assuming he's going to have that choice or do both.   I don't know if you can do both.   But if you can, that would be great because both parties need him, probably.   So it will be interesting.   But he's been fantastic.  
   
 Q.   In the first three quarters of Game 5, Blake wasn't really able to get going.   It seemed like he was trying to muscle his way in.   Is that not necessarily the right way to attack smaller defenders?   
COACH RIVERS:   I think it depends on what side of the floor he's on and where we give him the ball.   Yeah, I thought he was in a rush the other night.   I just thought he wanted to do well, and sometimes you get sped up.   I thought he got sped up, honestly.   Usually when that happens, he uses the power game more than the head game.   We need a little bit of both.   It all really depends on the spot he gets it in.   We went over it.   
But it doesn't matter how much you go over it.   Still when you get in the game, you want to do well.   And we have to help him.   I didn't think our spacing was particularly good the other night.   I thought we allowed them to really to trap them and be effective.   That was on us.   So we have to do a better job there.  
   
 Q.   Now that you've worked for Sterling, do you think it will be easier to work for Jim Buss?  
COACH RIVERS:   I was waiting for something (laughing).   I'll say no comment to all of those things, but it was good.   It was good.   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT