AMERICAN CENTURY CELEBRITY GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2004
Ivan Lendl
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Ivan who has 23 points.
Q.  You did have a good finish, tell us about how you finished out.
 IVAN LENDL:   I got up and down from the bunker on 15 for par and then on 16,  I hit a good driver, left a 3 wood a little bit short, chipped it about ten feet by and made that.

Missed a 5 footer for birdie on 17.  And I hit about a 15 footer for birdie on 18, for eagle on 18, and just over it a little bit and tapped it in for a birdie.
Q.  You've been in contention before, do you think this might be your year?  What's kept you back in the past?
 IVAN LENDL:   Oh, I don't really know.  I feel that every year, I'm not judging just by this tournament.  Just every year on our tour, I get better and better finishes.  I keep the ball a little bit more in front of me, out of trouble and going go and hit it, and generally, the weeks out that I've been in contention I've done really well.  See what happens tomorrow and Sunday.
Q.  Do you like this format better than medal or does it matter?
 IVAN LENDL:   I don't, personally.  I prefer straight stroke play, but it is what it is and you've got to deal with it.  It makes you a little more aggressive.

It takes, I think, thinking out of it at times, because there are times when you should be going at the pin and you go at it anyhow, because if you make a bogey it's no big deal.  And if you get lucky and  hit it close, even though it's a tough shot, you make a 3 pointer.  You have to be more aggressive and whether it's approaches or the putts, you just have to stay away from doubles and take the birdies when they come.
Q.  How many times do you think during the course of your round you're thinking that way, be aggressive and go for it?
 IVAN LENDL:   Every shot.  I hit driver on 1, try to take it over the bunker because it gives mea short club in rather than lay up with a 3 iron or something like that.

Take a cut at it, I took a cut at it on No. 4 today on the right fringe off the tee and I had about 230.  I took a rescue 4 and just hammered it with a hook in there and ended up making a par and missed a 6 footer for birdie.  In stroke play, I wouldn't be doing that.

Same thing on a bunch of the holes coming in.  You just take a chance because eagle is so many points that you have to take a chance on the par  5.  Even though your chances of making birdie may be laying short of the green, but you have to take a chance if there is the eagle to be taken.
Q.  As you've gotten better, does it take any of the fun out of the game for you?
 IVAN LENDL:   Hell no.  (Laughter.)
Q.  Is it funner the better you get?
IVAN LENDL:   Ask Rick.  I mean, gee, I certainly prefer to hit my ball straight and find it in the fairway and hit it than look for it in the woods.  It's a lot more fun.  I thought you were kidding at first.  (Laughter.)
Q.  Something that you might have started as a recreation and not been very good and to become better and better
 IVAN LENDL:   Oh, you don't know me very well.  I'm a competitive bastard.  I go biking and I have to have a better time than yesterday's.  There is no recreation involved.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT