AMERICAN CENTURY CELEBRITY GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2002
Ivan Lendl
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  Just start and tell us what happened today with the round, and what's different this year about previous years in Tahoe. 
IVAN LENDL:   Well, it's two weeks later this year, compared to last. 

Q.  How does that change anything?
IVAN LENDL:   I think the golf course is in much better shape.  I think the two weeks of the move back makes a huge difference in how good the greens are and so on.  I think the greens are rolling fantastic.
The whole golf course is in better shape, not that it was in bad shape before, but you get snow a couple of times  -- we had snow two, three weeks before the event, and that certainly cannot help.  So, that's nice.
And as far as the round goes, I hit it good. I hit it good yesterday.  I just didn't r can't make anything yesterday.  I had a lot of 25-footers, and today I hit it good and made a lot of putts, made all of the little putts and reached three par 5s in two and that makes it easy.

Q.  How many putts did you have yesterday? 
IVAN LENDL:   I don't know.

Q.  You didn't count them?
IVAN LENDL:   I did, but I forgot.  I didn't worry about it too much.  I think I hit 13 greens and fringes, where I was putting from, so probably in the mid-30s.

Q.  You have the win in Richmond, any others?
IVAN LENDL:   I won in Atlantic City last year. 

Q.  So now you're headed into Sunday in the hunt.
IVAN LENDL:   I don't know, am I?  I have no idea.

Q.  Those other guys are going to be minus one or minus two.  Because you've won before, is it going to be just like the same thing?
IVAN LENDL:   I don't know.  The two times I've won, I just went out there and tried to hit fairways and greens.  Whatever the golf course gave me, I took, and I didn't try to force anything. 

Q.  Do you feel better having won previously, is there a feeling of knowing what it takes?
IVAN LENDL:   Well, it's so similar to tennis.  I don't think it makes that much of a difference, and every day is a different day.  Sure, more times you're in contention, theoretically, better you should be.  I'm just glad that I hit the ball well and that I'm somewhere up there and going to have fun with it tomorrow.

Q.  You're not going to go for the win?
IVAN LENDL:   Sure am.  Don't worry about that.  It's going to be fun.  Looking forward to it.

Q.  When you won in Richmond was that, did you pat yourself on the back that day?
IVAN LENDL:   I enjoyed it.  I enjoyed it very much.

Q.  Has it been a goal of yours to be in the hunt on Sunday here?
IVAN LENDL:   Every time I tee it up, I try to play the best I can, whether it is in Richmond or over here or U.S. Open qualifier, it doesn't matter, I try to play well.

Q.  Is this your best score on this course? 
IVAN LENDL:   I'm pretty sure it is, yes.  4-under.

Q.  Best ever?
IVAN LENDL:  I've had a bunch of 67s.

Q.  Have you been working a lot on your game lately? 
IVAN LENDL:   I've been working on my game for a long time.  It's a funny game.  I went to Richmond a couple years ago, and we had a few tournaments before that I could not break 80, and then some years I play well and come out somewhere and play, don't do it right.  Just crazy game. 

Q.  What will be the difference tomorrow?
IVAN LENDL:   If I knew that, I would tell you. 

Q.  What do you have to do?
IVAN LENDL:   I have to hit a lot of fairways, greens, keep it in play.  Today, whether it was luck or the pins were easier, I think with one or two exemptions I hit every putt from below the hole.  That makes it very easy.  You don't have to fear 3-putting.  Yesterday, every putt seemed like it was a struggle to 2-putt.  I don't think I hit it any better today or not that much better than yesterday, certainly not eight shots difference.

Q.  How did you find the course today?
IVAN LENDL:   It got very difficult there for a while, especially around the turn, 9, 10, 11 when the wind was blowing really hard. 
And 10 was a brutal hole today.  I hit driver, 7-wood and got it over the green and hit a great flop shot.  A 5 was a good score than hole, because if you put it in the water, you can make 6 easy.

Q.  With Rhoden 1-under coming down 18, do you have a certain number that you are thinking of tomorrow?
IVAN LENDL:   Not at all. 

Q.  Just play the best you can? 
IVAN LENDL:   That's it.  Wherever the dice falls, that's where it is. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT