NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: PENGUINS VS SENATORS
May 21, 2017
Mike Sullivan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions for coach.   
 Q.  Any updates on the injured players today?  
MIKE SULLIVAN: They'll all be game time decisions.   
 Q.  With regard to your Game 4 lines, was there a thought in mixing things up stylistically?  Seems like each line had a speed element, maybe a physical element in it, too.  
MIKE SULLIVAN: We're just trying to create competitive balance.  I think our coaching staff feels as though that's when this team is most competitive and gives us the best chance to win.   
We're trying to establish that balance through our lineup that we can try to dictate the terms out there and sustain it consistently.  That balance is important to that.   
 Q.  Was there a concerted effort, should there be, to get closer to Anderson?  Or is it a matter of you guys playing the right way?  
MIKE SULLIVAN: I think we want to make sure we do our best to make it hard on our opponent's goaltender, regardless of who we play.  We've got to get in sight lines, we have to make sure we get to the front of the net so that we're in the area to potentially get a deflection or a rebound or a next-play opportunity.   
I just think that's sound hockey.  So, you know, certainly that's something that we discussed with our group as far as trying to score more goals, generate more offense.  I think that's something that we preach to our guys all year long.   
 Q.  When you have a couple of guys that maybe aren't scoring, like Bonino and Sheary, at this stage of the playoffs, can you still let them kind of play through it?  Have you reached the point in a series where if you're going, you're gone, and you're not, you're not playing as much?  
MIKE SULLIVAN: It's a short window at this point.  That's the challenge.  We certainly believe in all these guys that we have.  We think they're all good players.  They've all helped us get to this point.   
It takes more than just 12 forwards, six defensemen and two goalies to get to this point.  We just believe that.  We've relied on our depth all year long.  Guys have come in the lineup and made contributions to help us win.  These guys that you're talking about are guys that have helped us win all year long and continue to help us win.   
Any time we made those types of lineup decisions or line combinations, however you want to look at it, we keep that in mind.  So the further you get in the playoffs, the window becomes shorter.   
 Q.  Do you include Ruhwedel and Kuhnhackl in the game time decisions?  
MIKE SULLIVAN: Chad and Tommy Kuhnhackl will be out.   
 Q.  I'm going to concede this may be a dumb question, but is Murray the starting goalie?  
MIKE SULLIVAN: Yes.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT