NHL STANLEY CUP FINAL: SHARKS v PENGUINS
June 11, 2016
Mike Sullivan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. I know results are what matters, but do you feel if your guys play the way they did in Game5, they'll get the result they were looking for?
COACH SULLIVAN: We really liked a lot of our game. We carried the play for long stretches. Our power play was good. A lot of the aspects of our game we really liked. 
We just have to continue to try to play the game the right way, play to our strengths, bring the same energy and same conviction. I think that type of hockey gives our team the best chance to win. 

Q. After Game2, I asked you whether you felt your guys improved more after losses than wins. You said at this time of year they're pretty much locked in. Does this series change that at all in your mind, do they respond more to losses than wins?
COACH SULLIVAN: I think we respond the right way to adversity, the ebbs and flows. Obviously we didn't get the result the last game. This is as high stakes as it gets. 
Our players are well aware of the situation. I think throughout the course of this post‑season, this group of players has shown an ability to respond the right way. 
We trust these guys. We trust our leadership. We believe in this group. I believe that we'll be at our best. 

Q. A lot has been made of the way Matt Murray responds to losses. That's the kind of thing you would expect more from a veteran goalie. What is it about his makeup that he's able to turn a loss into something good the next game and not let it snowball?
COACH SULLIVAN: Well, I think he has a quiet confidence about him. I think he believes in himself. He knows he's a good goalie. He has shown a maturity level beyond his years in a lot of ways. 
But probably the most impressive way is just his ability to deal with any of the adversity that he faces along the way. If one goes in that he thinks he should have had, he has the ability to stay in the moment, try to make the next save. He's a real competitor. We love that about him. We love his makeup. 
For him to show that type of an attribute at such a young age, it usually takes players a few years to acquire that type of mental toughness where your confidence doesn't get shaken or your performance doesn't get influenced by some of the adversity that you go through throughout the course of a game or from game to game. 
Matt has shown an ability to just stay focused and just stay in the moment and be ready to compete and make that next save. 

Q. Used to be the goalies were seen as like the oddballs before games. Seems there's a new generation of goaltenders that aren't like that. Have you seen more of a change into what you just described?
COACH SULLIVAN: Certainly with Matt, he's a pretty composed kid. What I've really grown to admire about him is just his professionalism. He comes to the rink, he controls what he can, he works hard every day, he prepares the right way. 
There isn't a whole lot of drama surrounding him. He just comes to the rink and works. When you have players like that, that come to the rink and just work to get better each and every day, as a coaching staff I think it makes our jobs a lot easier because of the approach that they take, players like Matt. 
We've got a fair amount of them on our team. I have to say this group of players has been a privilege to coach because of their professionalism and their work ethic and how they approach their jobs every day. 
Matt is one of those guys. He comes to the rink every day, tries to get better. Doesn't really get on an emotional rollercoaster, so to speak. He just controls what he can. I think that's one of the reasons why he has the ability to endure some of the challenges that this league presents. 
I think one of the things that young players have to learn when they establish themselves in this league is how to handle the emotions associated with wins and losses, highs and lows, when you're feeling really confident, when maybe your confidence gets shaken and how do you get it back. Those are all human emotions that players, athletes, have to deal with. 
I think Matt has shown a great ability to navigate through those challenges. 

Q. Obviously you guys would like to end this in front of your fans. Are there advantages to playing on the road away from the noise and distractions?
COACH SULLIVAN: Well, we'd like to win the next game, regardless of where it's being played. I think being on the road, it's just the team. There are less distractions for sure. 
But having said that, I thought our guys did a really good job of handling it the right way. It was unfortunate that we didn't get the result we were looking for. But we're playing a very good opponent and we know that. We know this is the most difficult win to get. Our players are well aware of the expectations and the heightened intensity that we need to have in order to get this next win. 
So regardless of where it is, our focus is on that. 
Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT