BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 7, 2018
Jim Reid
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. Zach Allen can line up inside, outside.  How valuable is his versatility?
JIM REID: First of all, Zach came back.  I want you to know that people said, Why would he risk that?  Well, let me just say this to you.  He's coming back for all the right reasons.  He loves his teammates.  He loves the education he's getting here.  He loves Boston College, the environment, everything to do with it.
His versatility is extremely, extremely unique.  He can run fast.  He's big.  He's physical.  He can use his hands.  He can stop the run, he can stop the pass, get the ball down, rush the passer.  Unbelievable.
What I love most about him is this.  When Zach Allen speaks, everybody listens, including the guy that's talking right now.  Doesn't do much talking, but the words that come out of his mouth (indiscernible).
(Microphone blocked.)
JIM REID: What was your favorite story?
Q. Jack coaching Tom.  Some interesting names in there.
JIM REID: Coach was at our golf outing.  It was amazing how many players were there.  It's amazing the family, the togetherness of our alumni.  Brought him in to speak to our team a year ago.  Everybody comes back home because that's how our players view this, as their home.  Just like when we were talking about Zach.  Why come back?  Because it's home.  That's a good thing.
Q. Curious about the safety leadership back there.  What has it been like?
JIM REID: I'll tell you what, this is what I'm going to do, okay?  From the day that this guy showed up, if anybody has ever asked me about football, coaching at Boston College, I would tell you we got a special guy by the name of Anthony Campanile.  After last year what our secondary did, leadership-wise, I think we were second or third in the country in terms of pass defense and interceptions.  I think we had the Tom interceptor in Lukas Denis.
Coach called me and said, This guy has some office.  What do we do?  What I said this, Make him the defensive coordinator because he is that good.  So we made him the co-defensive coordinator.  A magnificent coach.  We interviewed him, magnificent.  I've enjoyed working with him more than anybody.  I really have.
The only bad thing about this guy, somebody said, You got like a father-son relationship.  He said, How about grandfather?  That really made me angry.  If I could have taken him, I would have taken a right hand to his jaw.
We announced it, but we never had this, to announce Anthony Campanile as our co-defensive coordinator.  I tell you, he's just terrific.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT