FLORIDA STATE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 27, 2017
Ermon Lane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Florida State - 3, Boston College - 35   
 Q.  So how do games like tonight make you persevere and get better?  
ERMON LANE: Just got to continue to convert, listen to the coaches, and just come out to win.   
 Q.  Having one of the best coaches, how does he help you become a better player?  
ERMON LANE: He knows everything.  He's the coach that knows like offense, defense, special teams.  Like the stuff that he tells us to do, it will be right.  We've just got to listen and buy in.   
 Q.  Do you think the team's playing not to lose rather than to win?  
ERMON LANE: I don't think we're playing not to lose rather than to win.  We just need to play as a team on all three phases.  Offense, defense, special teams, we've just go to play.  We've got a good energy in practice.  We've just got to bring that Saturday.  We've just got to play.   
 Q.  Why isn't that happening?  
ERMON LANE: I don't know.  I don't know.  I can't even explain it why it's happening.  We have good weeks of practice.  I don't know.   
 Q.  Do you think it's when sometimes you maybe take a step back or a play doesn't go your way and everybody just kind of feels it and they don't respond positively?  
ERMON LANE: I can't say that, because on the sideline everybody tries to keep everybody positive.  So when people make plays, we just try to stay positive and go to the next play.   
 Q.  What's the mood like in the locker room right now?  
ERMON LANE: After a loss like this, you know it's going to be down.  But we've just got to come back tomorrow, link up, and just work on next week.   
 Q.  Do you think the team is still buying in?  Everybody's still working hard?  
ERMON LANE: We'll see.  Only time will tell if a team buys in.  But like practice has been going, I feel like we've bought in, but we just, the little things.   
 Q.  Do you think last week's loss kind of carried over into this week?  
ERMON LANE: No, that was a whole different attitude of practice.  Like we don't even -- after one game, we just go to the next game.  We don't worry about the next game.  We don't worry about the last game.   
 Q.  Do you think the pre-season hype has affected the team mentally as far as you guys were expected to be so good, and then you've had five losses?  Are you expecting like -- are you thinking you should be better?  Is that affecting the way you guys play?  
ERMON LANE: No, we don't even think about preseason.  We don't want to think about the preseason poll and all of that stuff like that?  It's just like we've just got to finish, that's all.  At the end of the day, we've just got to finish it, play hard.   
 Q.  What is your conversation with the coaches about the receiver?  
ERMON LANE: Thursday, well, Wednesday.   
 Q.  Was it with Coach Jimbo or Coach Dawsey?  
ERMON LANE: Yeah, it was both.   
 Q.  And I guess what did you take going back to your natural position?  
ERMON LANE: Well, I knew everything on the offense.  I still know everything on offense.  (Inaudible) for me, I've just got to do a lot more running.  I had to do a lot more running on Wednesday that I've got to get used to.  I've got to get the younger guys better, because I know on offense I've got to teach them the playbook.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT