NCAA WOMEN'S COLLEGE WORLD SERIES
May 30, 2018
Sis Bates
Kylee Hanson
Giselle Juarez
Jenna Lilley
Paige Parker
Gwen Svekis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Paige, what does this mean to be a four-time All-American?  
PAIGE PARKER: It's truly a blessing to be a four-time All-American.  This is something that you only dream about, and very, very blessed and just can't thank my family enough for always being there for me and my coaches and teammates.  So this is a huge blessing and thank you so much.   
 Q.  Sis, can you talk about not only making All-American, but just the path that you've been able to help the husband keys be on to be able to get to this point?  
SIS BATES: We pride ourselves on playing husband keys often ball and playing for eve other.  This All-American Award is cool and I'm so blessed to get this opportunity.  I just have to thank my teammates for really pushing me and playing together and playing for each other because that's really what got us to this point.   
 Q.  Paige, I see Sydney Romero's name on here, and I think about the fact that she's never been in any national awards and she's really driven this year, especially being passed over at the USA team.  What do you think about her accomplishing this and what do you see about her drive this year?  
PAIGE PARKER: I'm so proud of Syd.  Syd and I are very close, and from the beginning of this fall, I just knew Syd was on a mission this year.  I have seen her just work so incredibly hard, and just take an awesome mind-set into this year.   
So I'm just so proud of her and I'm so happy that she got this Award and just so happy for her for sure.   
 Q.  Giselle, what does this mean for you, and what's been key for you this year to be as successful as you've been?  
GISELLE JUAREZ: For me it's just been about focusing on me and my team.  It's an absolute honor to be with these athletes up here, these women up here.  I mean, this is very exciting and for our team, I tell them all the time, I wouldn't be here if it wasn't for them.  So I mean, it's a huge honor.   
 Q.  Kylee, what does this mean to you after going through the injuries you did last year and people wondering if you would play softball again, and here you are as an All-American?  
KYLEE HANSON: It means the world to me but I couldn't do it without my coaches and my teammates.  I'm just really happy to be here in general.   
 Q.  This is for G and Sis.  You both were on the U.S. team in Clearwater, the junior national team that won the Gold Medal.  Talk about that journey to this year and you're here honored as an All-American on the biggest stage?  
SIS BATES: This summer was a lot of fun playing with Je (ph).  I think that we grew as players and athletes and also people.   
You get to play with girls you played with in Pac 12s against, and you finally to get to play with each other and get to know those people and they are awesome people.  Je (ph) is so awesome.  You play each other again in Pac 12 and it's cool.   
JENNA LILLEY: It's an awesome experience, like she said, you get to play with amazing young women.  I love playing Sis.  It was really cool because I've seen her on the field and now I got to play with her, and I think it's really cool because you get to see different cultures and we get to experience something completely different than what we are used to.   
 Q.  Gwen, Jenna and Sis, whoever wants to answer it.  What's it like to face Paige Parker on this stage, because she's won eight World Series games, and that's more than some even programs have won.  What's it like to face her?  
GWEN SVEKIS: Paige is obviously incredible.  She wouldn't be a four-time All-American if she weren't.  But it's important for our team to sort of not look at her as like this like God of softball (laughter) because she sort of is like this incredible pitcher, but going up against her is challenging, but it's also a very special moment.   
It's just fun to play against all these girls, to go up against all the pitching we've gone up against, and we're lucky to have seen Paige, now twice, and been able to go up against someone who has such prestige in our sport.   
She's awesome, and it's -- we're very fortunate to have seen her before.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, ladies, and good luck the rest of the tournament, and thank you for spending a little bit of time with us today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT