VIZIO FIESTA BOWL: BOISE STATE v ARIZONA
December 28, 2014
Beau Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Did you ever imagine when you came here as a walk‑on to be a starting player in the Fiesta Bowl?
BEAU MARTIN:   No, sir.   No one ever really put it in those words.   No, I wouldn't believe it. 
But I sure am thankful. 

Q.   What has been your key?   How did you get to this point?   What has enabled you to overcome injuries and everything you had to go through to be sitting here on this stage in this type of game?
BEAU MARTIN:   Like I said, it's a boyhood love for this game.   It's not wanting to let my teammates and my coaches down.   But a lot of guys talk about the daily process, man.   I just am a guy that loves the daily process.   I'm not about the big crowds, the big moments.   I'm more about the Tuesday afternoons or the Monday mornings.   I like the little things. 
I think those little things have, you know, allowed me to get to this point.   That's something I would try to tell anyone who takes that chance, who tries to make the leap, that you have to enjoy the most mundane details of this game to be able to achieve your goals. 

Q.   Everybody talks about the previous two Fiesta Bowl teams.   You're one of those historic teams now at Boise State.   Have you thought about what that means to you, what it will mean to you 10 years down the road?
BEAU MARTIN:   Yeah, to be honest, there have been moments at home, being around these guys, when you think about that.   This isn't just a senior class or a group of guys that just made it through another season.   We really have something to be proud of at the end of the year, that we'll always be able to talk about.   That means something. 
So, yeah. 

Q.   There's the trophy down there in the trophy case. 
BEAU MARTIN:   See it every day. 

Q.   You could come back with your wife and kids in 10 years and have a third one there and tell stories about that one. 
BEAU MARTIN:   Yeah, I could.   That would be something (laughter).   That's something I'm really excited about.   I've always wanted to go to a school where I'm able to say I'm proud to say I went there.   I want to be able to bring my kids back. 
I'm glad I went to Boise State, have a trophy in that case from my senior year, that would be really cool. 

Q.   Defensively you got on such a roll the last three, four games.   What happened the last three, four weeks, and how do you keep that momentum going despite the break?
BEAU MARTIN:   I just think it comes down to practice.   I think we have to replicate that in practice, that intensity, doing the same thing we've said all year, just trusting each other, doing your job. 
I think we've played more aggressive these past couple weeks.   I just think these guys will probably tell you, it just kind of has clicked on the defensive side of the ball, obviously on the offensive side of the ball.   But just cut it loose, know the guy next to you is going to do his job and we've practiced well, so... 

Q.   The Air Force game, they're wondering which direction the program was going, kind of a changing moment in the crossroads of the program.   What was it about the Nevada game that you were able to turn the corner?   Do you think being able to win that game on the road that pushed you guys forward?
BEAU MARTIN:   I think there definitely was.   Shoot, that was one of the wildest games I've ever been a part of.   That was up and down, all kinds of game‑changing moments. 
Like I said earlier, one of the things we changed after Air Force was to enjoy the process more, not take winning for granted.   I tell you what, after we won that, we enjoyed that.   In that locker room, we celebrated. 
I think that's something that helps you put eight games together where you play better, is just enjoying the process, enjoying the Monday and Tuesday and Thursday night, Friday morning.   It makes the season really worth it at the end. 

Q.   You broke away for a couple days, came back together.   How was practice yesterday?   Do you feel like guys know why you're here and are pretty focused?
BEAU MARTIN:   Absolutely.   I've been really impressed with this group.   It started with our first meeting back.   I think Coach Harsin got after it right away, why we're here.   We all know.   I think the group has done a great job. 
I thought practice was really good yesterday.   I'm really excited to have a better practice today.   I like our focus. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT