BIG TEN CONFERENCE MEN'S HOCKEY CHAMPIONSHIP
March 17, 2017
Don Lucia
Rem Pitlick
Jack Sadek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Penn State - 4, Minnesota - 3, 2OT
THE MODERATOR: We are joined by Minnesota head coach Don Lucia, Jack Sadek and Rem Pitlick.
Coach, an opening statement, then we'll take questions for the students.
DON LUCIA: A hard-fought game.  I thought as the game went on, we got better.  Didn't really like our start.  Even though we scored first, I don't think we managed the puck real well.
I thought Penn State played very well.  They had a lot on the line tonight.  They played that way.  They were certainly deserving to win the game.
THE MODERATOR: Questions for the students.
Q. Jack, can you take us through that tying goal in the third period.  Did you get a lot of wood on it?  Did you see it enter the net?
JACK SADEK: I think the play was supposed to go to Leon on the wing there for a shot.  It somehow popped out to me.  I just one-timed the puck.  That's what the coaches are kind of harping on us to do, the defensemen.  A knuckle puck that found its way through.
THE MODERATOR: You guys can head back.
We'll take questions for coach.
Q. This is one of the last games in Joe Louis Arena for college hockey.  Do you think it was fitting for an ending, a double OT game like this?
DON LUCIA: Obviously, a lot of history at Joe.  We haven't been a part of it.  But it was a classic college hockey game.  There was never more than a goal separation.  They got an opportunity in the power play in overtime.  They made a good play coming out of the corner, to find a guy in the backdoor.
The goalies played good.  I was very happy the way Eric played.  Played well the second half of the season.  Now for us, it's just go home tomorrow and rest up and get ready for next week.
Q. A comment was made today about the skill level in this league.  Now a few years in the Big Ten, where do you see the league?
DON LUCIA: I think the nice thing, we have a chance to get three teams in the NCAA tournament.  I mean, Ohio State even.  I don't know how things will shake out.  They have a chance, as well.  I think that's a good, positive sign.
Notre Dame is in the NCAAs this year.  They'll be part of the Big Ten next year.  There's some good offensive skill, guys that can make plays.  You see some of the highest-scoring teams in college hockey playing in the Big Ten right now.  They're able to attract some high-skill players that they can make those plays on the power play.
Q. As the game was winding deep into a second overtime, I know the IIHF has played a couple junior gold medal games with four-on-four.
DON LUCIA: No chance.  That's not the way hockey is supposed to be played.  I don't care how long you go.
I was at CC, we played 129 and a half minutes to settle a game.  I think that's the way.  If you go to a shootout...
Why change the game?  The game is five-on-five.  Let's play five-on-five.  That's the beauty.  Anybody get tired of watching overtime?  I've never been to one that the -- I hated that that goalie made a big save there.
I think that's the exciting part.  I'm a purist.  You're not going to see the Stanley Cup Playoffs go 4-4 in overtime.  Neither should we.
Q. As far as what do you tell the guys as the game is going longer and longer?  How do you get them through the exhaustion?
DON LUCIA: I mean, they're in good shape.  That's not so much the issue.  I was glad that Szmatula and Glover got a lot of ice tonight, which is good for them, heading into next week.
The big thing we kept trying to harp on our guys is try to make sure we're managing the puck, not turn it over, shorten up the rink a little bit.
As it was going on, both goalies made some really good saves.  When you start to get deep into overtime, it can be a little bit more cautious.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Coach.  Good luck.
DON LUCIA: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT