NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 13, 2013
Seung-Yul Noh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about playing in the heat and the wind, and then playing in no heat and a lot of wind?  
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Oh, you know, the course conditions were really tough out there today because especially like the wind.   It's tough to control the irons and then putting was also tough.   Today everything's perfect and lot of making putts.  
   
 Q.   Do you have a lot of experience playing in the wind and stuff like that?   
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Yeah, when I play in Europe‑‑ I played European Tour two years, and so when I play Europe, I'm playing in a lot of windy conditions.   And then playing the PGA last year in, a lot of windy there too.   Then I played 7‑under the final round, so I had a good experience.   I can have good control too.  
   
 Q.   We were talking earlier today about guys that played in the Memorial and here in the same year, and there are not too many.   It probably wasn't your plan to come back to Columbus this year.   What was the difference this year compared to last year?   
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   I finished 37th last year in the status ranking.   But I changed a lot of stuff this year.   I used Titleist and changed it to Nike.   Then the first three or four months I struggled with the driver and the golf ball because I had eight years Titleist, so a little struggle.   
Like pretty same distance every club, but especially wind was a different distance to the gust of wind.   Then, a little struggle putting too, but getting better and I figure out everything.   I think it will be better next year.  
   
 Q.   How long did that take before you felt comfortable with the change?   
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   About‑‑ when I changed about I found a perfect driver like Quail Hollow the first week of May.   And the golf ball, I changed it three times this year.   The putter maybe tried 15 putters.  
   
 Q.   That's a lot of experimenting.   
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Yeah, and then the 60‑degree wedge for about three, four months because different balance, different metal.   Yeah, everything like three or four months.  
   
 Q.   You switched to Nike right at the end of 2012 season going into the start of this year?  
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Right, right.  
   
 Q.   We were talking about that earlier today.   How guys struggle, some guys struggle switching.   Obviously, the new equipment contract is a lot better than the old one?   
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   No, it is hard because everything is new.   Then I talked already about the different distance, especially in the wind, and tough to green side spin control.   It's different, so everything is different.   So maybe patience and then think about it a few months.   Then maybe getting better, better, better.  
   
 Q.   When you got here today, did you think it was going to be a tough round or were you thinking I'm pretty good in the wind, I can move up?   
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Yeah, it is thinking really hard today, and I'm talking to myself to stay patient and play aggressive because everybody, a lot of new shots today.   I think about it, don't forget about that missed shot, and then just stay focused, focused, keep going.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Last year.   (Laughing).  
   
 Q.   Did you know (Indiscernible)?  
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Yeah, but, you know, playing a good first week and then missed the cut last week because I've been like the course is not my style.   I like it, but not my like style because I feel like Hilton Head.   It feels like Hilton Head.   So my worst course is there, and it felt pretty similar to last week, so I was playing bad.   
Then playing maybe Tuesday, still playing bad because the swing is pretty bad, feels bad.   Putting is okay, but I figured it out at the Pro‑Am when I'm playing.   So playing, getting better, and soon I think more better this weekend.  
   
 Q.   Do you like this format that they have now?   
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Yeah, I think it's better because it's a lot of chance, because the last time just playing one week and then playing bad just no chance to playing PGA TOUR.   But this system playing one week out gives three more weeks, so I think it's better.  
   
 Q.   When I looked at your (Indiscernible)?  
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   And this year when you played, you (Indiscernible)?  
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   No, I played nine holes, and then I got a weak (Indiscernible), I never weak my life playing golf.   I never talk to an official or something where I got a DQ.  
   
 Q.   Oh, you never told anyone?   
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   No, because I didn't have experience.   I just withdraw, but never talking to anyone when I played 18 green and then I was done.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Yeah, the officer.  
   
 Q.   What did you do so well today that you feel will carry over for you in this tournament?   
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   I think my swing because it's tough to swing and hit good shots like this one.   But everybody's working on their shot game to the green on this course it's more important.  
   
 Q.   Just for clarification, when you wanted to withdraw after 18, were you (Indiscernible)?  
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Yeah, again, I never (Indiscernible).  
   
 Q.   Just wanted to clarify that.   (Indiscernible)?  
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   My game?   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Your game's starting to come back?   
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Yeah, my putter, everything.  
   
 Q.   Can you explain?   
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Just the feel.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT