DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2012
Seung-Yul Noh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I was wondering, can you just tell us again what Tiger Woods has meant to you as a role model?   
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Uh‑huh.  
   
 Q.   How important is he to your game?  
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   It is, yeah.   I like his playing style, like long driver and then consistent like iron shot and putting also good.   
   
 Q.   You also are working with his swing coach, Sean Foley.   When did that start?  
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   It started the first time at the Arnold Palmer in March, and then we got a lot of working together starting in May, so three, four months, something.  
   
 Q.   And why Sean Foley?   
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   He got a lot of use the birdie in golf swing, and I was swinging, also, and use the birdie, and I just want to change a couple of things, so I think a lot of similar for my golf swing.   So that's why work for Sean Foley.   
   
 Q.   You just chatted with him briefly.   What was his advice to you after today's round?   
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   He said, "how was the round today?"   And then I said, "a few shots missed right, and then another one not too bad."   But he said, "you know everything; that's fine."   
   
 Q.   It's kind of an up‑and‑down round for you, wasn't it?   Can you describe how it went today?  
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Right.   Tee shots not too bad today, but a couple missed the fairway, but still okay.   But second, iron shots not too good today, so a little far from the birdie putt every time, and not much chance for the birdie today.   
   
 Q.   And the eagle you made that got you back to 11‑under, did you feel like that was going to get you started?   
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Yeah, pretty much.  
   
 Q.   Describe that hole.   
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   That hole a different direction today than yesterday, wind direction, so a little bit of help.   But hit the 3‑wood and then just a little past the green, right side green in the rough, so just trying to chip about 20‑yard flop shot, something, and then‑‑  
   
 Q.   Holed it out from there?   
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Had to be a great feeling for you.   
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   You didn't have to reach for the putter?  
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   No.  
   
 Q.   What was it you hit into the green there?  
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   For the second shot?   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   60.  
   
 Q.   60‑degree wedge, okay.   
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Yeah, I use 60 and 54, so a lot of times use the 60 on the greenside.  
   
 Q.   You've never led a round here in your PGA TOUR career.   After leading the first round you're still in contention after the second ground.   You gained some ground, lost some ground but you stayed steady.   
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Yeah, it's just two, three shots behind and next two rounds the next two days, good.   A few missed today but still a good chance for the scoring, and hopefully the next two days playing for (indiscernible.)  
   
 Q.   Two very good rounds of golf for you.   
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Yes, today was pretty good, and then the wind started a little in the morning, and then different direction.   I got not much experience with different wind at this course.   I think good playing also today.   
   
 Q.   Tell me about the eagle at 4.   
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   A little bit of help, helping wind today, so I hit the 3‑wood, left side, back flag position, so I got it a little past the right of the green, so it's 20 yards or something rough, and then I used a 60, just try and chip, and just made it.   
   
 Q.   Are you happy with your round today?   
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Not too bad.   Yesterday like perfect round, and then‑‑ that's the golf, like one day is perfect, one day is bad, one day is good.   I think not too bad today.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT