DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 31, 2012
Seung-Yul Noh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DOUG MILNE:   We'd like to go ahead and welcome Seung‑Yul Noh after a very successful first round, 9‑under 62, here at the Deutsche Bank Championship.   We saw you on TV a couple minutes ago and you said it's not your career low round but certainly your low round on the PGA TOUR, and what a better place to do it than in the Playoffs here.   Just some comments on the round. 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Everything good today, swing, putting, everything great today.   So happy for today. 

Q.   What was the key to your round today?   What was working best? 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   I think swing is best today.   I got a little bit of change of swing every day, so I've got to start working with Sean Foley in May, started in May, so a little bit of change in swing, but that's good work today.   I think pretty good golf swing today. 

Q.   When is the last time you shot 62?   They said this was your low score on the PGA TOUR.   When was the last time you shot 62?
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Three years ago, 2009, Malaysian Open, first day was 62, but it's par‑72. 

Q.   You said you started working with Sean Foley in May.   Can you tell us why you started working with him, and my understanding is the way he does instruction with you is a little different.   He shows you actually pictures of what he wants you to do; is that correct? 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Uh‑huh.

Q.   Could you talk about why you went to him? 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   He had a great three players, and then he got like simple swing, and very similar with my golf swing, I think.   So that's why I'm going to him. 
And then a little bit of change, golf swing, so more consistent every day, the golf shots.

Q.   He does show you pictures when he's instructing you, or how does he work with you?   Photos?
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Sometimes he sends to me by text, like Justin Rose swing, and then Hunter, Tiger's swing sometimes send to me, and then he says, look at the three guys' swing, and then think about myself and then try to myself, so that's a good thing. 

Q.   Could you talk about your rookie year on TOUR, and have you exceeded your expectations this year? 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Not much.   Not much. 

Q.   What did you expect? 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   I play two years on European Tour.   That's too hard, like long travel every time, different country, different food, different course, everything.   So better than Europe for here, America.   And then a lot of Korean people, players, and then a lot of Korean restaurants, everything.   So I like‑‑ more easier, America. 

Q.   How about your game?   Is your game good enough to win on the PGA TOUR?
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Getting better.   (Laughter.)

Q.   Q‑school last year?
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Yeah.

Q.   Under new system, if you had to come here and play one year on Nationwide or Web.com TOUR, would you still have come to America? 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   I'm not play Web.com.   I play‑‑ first time playing 2010 Memorial, and then two, three times playing every year, so not much different.

Q.   Next year there is no more going to Q‑school, and then straight to TOUR.   There's Q‑school and then one year on Web.com.   Would you have been willing to do that? 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   I don't know.   That's difficult to Korean players, come over to America.   I don't like that. 

Q.   You said you also shot a 62 in the first round of the Malaysian Open.   How did you end up doing in that tournament? 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Finished just top 10, something. 

Q.   What do you think about your chances the rest of this tournament? 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   I don't know, just try and make the TOUR Championship points, but hopefully finish at the top 5.   I think good chance for this week.   Feels pretty good. 

Q.   Who was your hero or idol, or who did you look up to when you first played golf? 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   I think every junior golfer same, Tiger.   That's why him over Jack Nicklaus, and then still playing good.   I think average junior golfer's hero is Tiger.

Q.   Not K.J.? 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   K.J. was hero, but he's best in the world, so that's why I catch up to him. 

Q.   What does it feel like then to be leading one of your boyhood heroes in this tournament, and how did it feel when you got to those last two holes and birdied them, and can you give us a sense of how it kind of gave you an even better chance to win here? 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Yes, but not much different to feel, just playing 16 holes.   Golf is playing 72 holes, so plenty of holes left.   Pretty good spot for the last two birdies, but feels not much different. 

Q.   Which player has been most helpful to you this year? 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Sorry? 

Q.   Which player has been most helpful to you this year in adjusting to the TOUR? 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Y.E.   I play a lot of times with him for every tournament, and then every night dinner together.   That's why I think Y.E. is best. 

Q.   And he picks up the check, right? 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   (Laughs.) 

Q.   You're quite young, 21 years old.   Do you travel on your own or do your parents help you? 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   My sister, older sister.   Parents still live in Korea.   I play the first time to play off, so I say parents like come over to America this time, but parents say, no, too tired.   Long travel, so just traveling with my sister.

Q.   Do you have a residence in the United States?
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Uncle's house in San Diego.

Q.   And that's home for you now?
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Yes. 

Q.   Did you have many people following you out there, rooting for you?
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Today? 

Q.   Today. 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Not much.

Q.   Do you think they know who you are? 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Some people say Kevin Na, like "Go, Kevin."   I don't know. 

Q.   What would you like people to know about you for those that don't know who you are? 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   I think good finish this week, I think better than now. 

Q.   Just about who you are, things that you like or the kind of person that you are.   What do you want people to know? 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   A lot of times watching movies.   Rest of the week a lot of times stay home, a lot of sleep and watching TV, something.

Q.   Favorite movie? 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Just Korean movies.

Q.   You don't think I've watched it? 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   (Laughs.) 
DOUG MILNE:   You made nine birdies today.   If you would just give us some clubs and yards on your birdies. 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   No.2, about 220 to the hole, a little bit of help, so hit the 5‑iron about seven feet, something.   Just missed an eagle putt. 
4th, just chipped about 20‑yard chip and then a three‑foot, make the par. 
5th hole, 3‑wood tee shot and 8‑iron second shot, about six‑foot putt, made it. 
6, that was also five‑foot something, made a putt. 
And then 7, driver a little bit left, rough, and then lay up about 230 to the hole third shot.   It's going to three feet, so that's easier, birdie. 
13, about five feet, something.   Got a pitching wedge for the second shot, five feet to birdie. 
15, I'm not remember for 15. 
17, 18, everybody knows, right? 
DOUG MILNE:   Yep, everybody knows.   Good playing today.   Keep it up. 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT