RENO-TAHOE OPEN
August 2, 2012
Seung-Yul Noh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Seung‑Yul Noh into the interview room at the Reno‑Tahoe Open.   Making your first start at this event this week.   Seven birdies, just the one bogey, 13 points.   Maybe just talk a little bit about your day playing the modified Stableford format for the first time, I assume.  
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Yeah.  
THE MODERATOR:   And then we'll open it up and go to questions.   
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   I think I don't want play this week.   I playing last week and then I want to rest this week and then playing PGA.   But my caddie, Michael, want to playing this week, that's why Stableford playing.  
Then I got a lot of birdie in the every round, and then every week about five, normally five birdie per round, so Mike want to playing this week.   So I want to‑‑ I got to change the schedule and then playing this week.   
THE MODERATOR:   We were talking when you first sat down you really kind of hit a good stretch here since the FedEx St. Jude Classic where you finished tied for seventh there, and then your best finish of the year at the AT&T National.   
As a rookie, have you found yourself finding a comfort level the last few weeks.  
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Yeah, start season about four missed cut, and then just finished 25, 3 play something.   But I got to (indiscernible) for Arnold Palmer March, and then a little bit of change swing and then more consistent on my swing every day.  
And then ball‑striking much better.   So being better keep on the green but a lot ‑‑ a few miss the putt, but still playing good.   
THE MODERATOR:   Very good.   Questions.   
   
 Q.   Tell us about your caddie a little bit.   Have you been together a while?   Do you normally involve your caddie in your decisions like that?   
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Got to change a few caddie this week‑‑ this year.   And then I working for Englishman this year in start season, and then a little bit change mind and then change a little bit, and then long travel so I got to change.   
But Michael's caddie for Y.E. last year, and then Charlie, and so he knows a little bit of Korean culture and that every Koreans work hard.  
But he like to work hard, so I think maybe work well together great future.   
   
 Q.   Did you have any experience playing in courses in the mountains like this before, or is this a new experience for you?   
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   I play twice in Switzerland last few years in European Tour in very higher mountain.   And then there is more going farther distance, so I had two, three time good experience.   So not too difficult this week.  
And then Michael lives to Denver, so he know the distance.  
   
 Q.   Your caddie can help you with the altitude and the calculations?  
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Yeah, right.  
   
 Q.   Got it.   How have you found the golf course?   Do you like it?   Obviously this is the first time playing this week.   
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Yeah, pretty good course and in good condition, but a little bit of bumpy greens.   But still okay.   
THE MODERATOR:   Anything else?   All right, Seung‑Yul, thanks for your time.   Play well the rest of the week, all right.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT