DUBAI WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DP WORLD
November 25, 2010
Seung-Yul Noh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  First Round 66 (-6)

 Q. How good a round was that? 
 SEUNG-YUL NOH: I think it was a good day. I had a clean sheet, no bogeys. The wind is blowing up a bit, but when I played, it was fairly calm, so I think that was to my advantage, as well. 

 Q. On a course you like, a course that you immediately like? 
 SEUNG-YUL NOH: There are some tricky holes. It's definitely not an easy course for sure. 
 But I think I managed the course very well. I had some tricky areas. I had some areas that I might have made bogey or maybe more, but I defended quite well. I managed to make par on those, and then on certain chances that were given to me, I took advantage of those, as well. 
 So overall, it was a good day. 

 Q. What are your thoughts on even playing this tournament, the year-ending event, of which you've obviously qualified very nicely. 
 SEUNG-YUL NOH: You know, it's a fun experience. It's a great experience. And to be playing amongst the best in the world right now, and to have a chance at the prize and probably a shot at not probably the first prize in the bonus pool, but at least a shot at it, it's a great experience, and it's a great advantage for my career, as well. 
 And overall, it's a good honour, really at my stage of the career. It's a good experience.

 Q. You are confident, but also very modest. Did you expect to be in the year-ending event? 
 SEUNG-YUL NOH: At the Maybank Malaysian Open earlier this year, I was in good position both in the European Tour, as well as qualifying for the final round in the PGA Q-School, as well. So my hopes were high, but as the season rode out, my chances of qualifying for the US PGA took a bit of a hit. 
 So I changed my plans, and decided to play The European Tour and this is a good result for this year, as well. But it's also a good stepping stone for next year?

 Q. Recall what you were saying in Shanghai about playing alongside the top names in the game and still slightly disbelieving that you were playing along with them. Is it the same feeling at this event, or are you more and more used to it?
 SEUNG-YUL NOH: The awe factor has worn down a bit. This is my third pro season, so it's not that I'm totally bug-eyed and awe-inspired every time I step on to the field. 
 It's always a learning experience, but I do take away the awe factor a lot, and I've played three Majors this year, so I'm getting used to playing with big names now. And hopefully, the next step will be to be able to hold my own when the pressure comes, if the situation comes, and even though I'm playing with a big player, I think that the experience within the short time that I've played professional golf, I think will kick in and help me out. 

 Q. Can you talk about your round today, and I believe the only time you were in trouble was on the first hole. After that, you were just outstanding. 
 SEUNG-YUL NOH: Yeah, that's correct. I had a bit of trouble in the first hole. I had an atrocious drive on the first swing and it was right next to the tree stub, probably right next to the tree. I had to play really conservative. I was actually hoping for a bogey, but a putt went in to save par from five feet. 
 So that was a good safe. I did have some other troubled areas, but overall, I think apart from my driver, I think my irons and second shots of my putts were actually on spot today and that helped me out. That got me out of a lot of sticky situations, and it also helped me out on some birdies, as well. 
 I think the overall assessment is my short game was much helpful. 

 Q. What's the target for the weekend? How can you build on this?
 SEUNG-YUL NOH: Hopefully I can maintain today's pace and today's play. I know that it is a very strong field out here, one of the best fields in the world. 
 So my expectations aren't that high. And I know that going into the weekend, it will be tougher and the pressure is going to be on a lot of players, not just me. So I'm not going to expect myself to be on the leaderboard, on top of the leaderboard going into the weekend.
 But one of my other objective for the end of this year is to try and break the Top-50 in the world; and thus, try to secure my spot in the Masters. 
 So hopefully I can play well on the weekend. If it comes down to me being in the last group, then so be it, but if not, at least get as many points as possible to get into that Top-50. 
 3, 8-iron. 
 6, 6-iron to six feet. 
 6, 9-iron to four feet. 
 12, 6-iron to ten feet. 
 16, 9-iron to eight feet. 
 18, 54-degree wedge to three feet. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT