WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 4, 2010
Seung-Yul Noh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  First Round 67 (-5)

 Q. How did you play today? 
 SEUNG-YUL NOH: No mistakes today. I think that's the biggest key.

 Q. So what's the key to being blemish-free around a tricky golf course. 
 SEUNG-YUL NOH: You know, it is, it's a bit tricky. Driving off from the tee is maybe a bit easy compared to the other areas, but getting the second shot off, still a lot of your second shots are going to be long irons and the greens are going to be small. So it's probably a golf course that you have to strategically play conservatively and try and make as few mistakes as possible.

 Q. So what was the best part of your game today? What was the particular highlight out there? 
 SEUNG-YUL NOH: I don't know if it's going to be a highlight, but I definitely made a lot of par saves, even though I missed a lot of greens, especially when I first started. 
 So I think that would be probably the stand out play that I made.

 Q. In general terms, what are your thoughts on this tournament, playing the HSBC Champions? 
 SEUNG-YUL NOH: I've played three Majors and the field is probably as strong as any Major that I've played in. It's good; it's a learning experience as well, as much fun as it is to compete with the best golfers in the world.
 Also, it's a tournament of champions, you've qualified only if you win a tournament. So it gives a lot of prestige towards you qualifying and just translating how strong the field is. 
 It's a big honour. It's a big challenge, which I am enjoying right now.

 Q. Is it a slightly different feel to the Majors because it's such a concentrated field, because there's so few players here, and hence, all of the more elite?
 SEUNG-YUL NOH: It doesn't have that much of a different feeling, except that it doesn't have a cut, so you can play a lot more comfortably and you can play a lot more aggressively. 
 It doesn't mean that it's any less difficult in any way but it does give you that sort of cushion whereas in other Majors, you fight for two days first, just try to make the cut and then see how you go on the weekend after that. 
 So in that way, it's a bit different, but comfort-wise, yeah, a bit different, but playing-wise, strategy-wise, the whole excitement, it's about the same. 

 Q. Having played Majors already, having won already, so much fame on your shoulders already; do you actually find yourself still in awe of some of the players you're around or much more comfortable? 
 SEUNG-YUL NOH: You know, if you watch players, especially the top-ranked players in the world, and US PGA TOUR players, you watch them play and you watch them practise, you can see that the technical aspect of their game is so much better. 
 It's otherworldly, really; that you're in two different universes. There's so much to learn from them it. And that's probably why I strive to go on and play and compete on The European Tour, as well as the US PGA TOUR hopefully, and that's one of the reasons. 
 Yeah, it still puts me in awe to watch these players play, not just on TV but actually right in front of me.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT