PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2010
Seung-Yul Noh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. S Y, can you tell us how you have been able to play so well over a course that looks so difficult and has so much contour in the greens at such a high level at a PGA Championship, one of the greatest tournaments in the world?
 SEUNG YUL NOH: When I was playing the practice round with K.J. Choi he told him about the golf course, how to play like here and there or something and that is how I played well.

 Q. Is K.J. Choi someone you look up to and admire, and I assume Y.E. Yang would be the same. Are those two players that you hope to follow in their foot steps?
 SEUNG YUL NOH: K.J. Choi and Y.E. Yang, they are very famous players in Korea and I of course follow them and then of course Tiger is the best player in the world. 

 Q. You beat K.J. to win the Malaysian Open. How does winning that tournament help your confidence at this stage of your career?
 SEUNG YUL NOH: Take that out. 

 Q. Dealing with both the Korean and American media, how different has it been and how, are you gaining some celebrity status back at home?
 SEUNG YUL NOH: I don't play much on the PGA TOUR so that's why I'm not very famous back in Korea. But after this, maybe I'll be famous. 

 Q. Do you have much nervousness or jitters out on the course? Do you think you can win this weekend?
 SEUNG YUL NOH: I hope one day I can say yes. But there's two more days left. 

 Q. How are you going to stay calm in the crucible of a major championship coming down the stretch facing the greatest players in the world on such a difficult golf course?
 SEUNG YUL NOH: When I turned pro on the European Tour or the Asian Tour, and then I think about that the courses are very hard to play and then when I was here at this course and Pebble.
 All the golf courses have a lot of difficulty. 

 Q. What was it like to beat K.J. Choi, your fellow countryman for your first European Tour win?
 SEUNG YUL NOH: The European Tour is not only K.J. Choi, K.J. Choi and Y.E. Yang are two great players though. 

 Q. Since America hasn't been introduced to you, could you tell us a little bit about what you like to do for fun and what your personal life is like so that people can get some sort of sense of a little bit more of who you are, other than a professional golfer. 
 SEUNG YUL NOH: I just started playing this year and there's a lot of traveling because of the European Tour and then I went back to school and I play fearless. That's it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT