FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 9, 2016
Seung-Yul Noh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great round especially the way you finished there.  Talk about that approach shot.  
SEUNG-YUL NOH: Pretty solid today.  Just one bogey but hitting it into the rough and especially missed the fairway here really tough to playing this course and then it's not a big deal and then make birdie and lot make par.  Really solid round today.   
 Q.  Your bunker shot on 16, hit it perfectly there to get with inside of five feet.  I know you weren't happen with the second shot.  Then you came to 17 and I know you weren't happy with the second shot.  
SEUNG-YUL NOH: It is, you know, just 16 -- 15 into the rough in tee shot and then it's great up and down on 15, and 16, you know, not a tough bunker shot any but good up and down again.   
And then 17, you know, little strange shot but in the fairway.  Still good, make the par.  Then 18 was good finish.  So, I was really happy.   
 Q.  All right.  With the heat, you going to relax this afternoon or get a little practice in?  
SEUNG-YUL NOH: Not much heat today.  Not too bad.  Last couple days warmer than this so maybe take a lunch and then take a rest and then later go to practice.   
 Q.  Great 1st Round, 65.  Congratulations.  
SEUNG-YUL NOH: Thank you.   
 Q.  You birdie 9, birdied 18.  Those are not easy holes to birdie.  You got to feel good.  
SEUNG-YUL NOH: Definitely.  And then last two holes just, you know, great playing today out there and then lot of make the putts, lot of up and downs, lot of makes the birdies.  Really happy with that.   
 Q.  Did you feel good as you teed it up today in terms of putting up a 65?  Was it in the bag?  
SEUNG-YUL NOH: You know, just still lot of miss the fairway today and then swings feel getting better but still little off the line little bit but still playing better good iron shot and putting or so.  So, I think getting better next three days.   
 Q.  When you look up at the leaderboard and you see your name on the top of, how does it feel?  
SEUNG-YUL NOH: Just first day.  If like if like a weekend, maybe feel different but not much different today.   
 Q.  Just Thursday.  
SEUNG-YUL NOH: Just Thursday.   
 Q.  Is this as good a round as you played so far this year?  You played 19 events no Top 10s but how would you describe how you played?  
SEUNG-YUL NOH: I'm playing really solid last tournament in Colonial and then struggled last Sunday and then otherwise playing -- not a great season so far but feel not too bad and then last week when I practiced just swing -- feel it coming so I think that's why I'm playing good today so I think getting feel better next three days.   
 Q.  Congratulations.  Thank you.  
SEUNG-YUL NOH: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT