ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 27, 2014
Seung-Yul Noh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We welcome our 2014 Zurich Classic of New Orleans champion Seung‑Yul Noh to the media center.   Seung‑Yul Noh, I'm sure this is an exciting time for you having captured your first PGA TOUR victory.   Maybe you could just tell us a little bit about what it feels like to be a PGA TOUR champion. 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Very excited and very happy.   Very challenging today out there, especially playing with Keegan, a major champion, and heavy wind today.   It was playing really tough today, but I made the first victory on the PGA TOUR. 
THE MODERATOR:   This win gets you into THE PLAYERS, it gets you up to No.16 in the FedExCup, and I'm sure it is a lot for you as a player, so maybe you could tell us a little bit about what this does for you as a player going forward. 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Very good experience, and then a lot of‑‑ winner youngest player on the U.S. Tour, so like Rory, Jordan Spieth, Patrick Reed, all the younger guys winning two times, so try and keep hard, work hard, catch up with those guys. 

Q.   I know in Korea you grew up playing near the ocean.   Did you feel at home today with the wind blowing?   Did the wind bother you that much since you probably grew up playing with wind? 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Yeah, my hometown like April, May, that time, really strong wind, like today. 
And then when I practice in ocean, like start 5:00 to 7:00, 7:30, so only the morning, very quiet, just practice by the ocean for bunker shots and then back to school and then after lunch come back to the range, practice, and at that time very windy. 
I win the 2010 Malaysia Open, and then after that we are playing European, so very learn from there in Europe my game, especially ball control, ball flight, something like that, very good experience playing in Europe. 

Q.   Of the 71 shots that you hit today, which did you feel was the most important? 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Hitting on the green because a lot of windy, tough up‑and‑down, because wind take the ball on the green, and then stronger grass here, so more hitting on the green, second shot, and then try and make a good putt, so that's the key. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   15, hit it on the fairway and then like 140 straight downwind, make a three‑putt, but 16 is unbelievable shot to the front left pin.   I think playing very comfortably 17 and 18. 

Q.   I think this is your first week working with Scott.   How comfortable were you guys together out there?   And also what went into the decision of hiring him? 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   It is first week.   Everything perfectly worked like in terms of my game, and he worked everything perfect.   I don't know why.   But two weeks off the last two weeks, so maybe very comfortably mental, feel very healthy.

Q.   (No microphone.)
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   No, just this Monday, the first time. 

Q.   Can you give us an indication of what this victory means to the people back in Korea, especially considering the events that have happened in the last couple weeks with the ferry disaster? 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   It happened about two weeks ago, so when I stay in Korea that happened, the ferry.   And then all the TV, all the people, everything focused on the ferry, and then all the people very quiet down. 
But then come back to the U.S. and restart on the work and then playing this week, playing really good first two days, so I think about more work hard, playing good the weekend, hopefully win for giving to‑‑ happy all the Korean people.

Q.   Could you go over the 13th hole?   You seemed to have a little bit of a tough lie right near the bunker and then you ended up hitting the pin.   Talk about that good shot and the break. 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   It is a bad lie a little bit, a little bit of downslope and a little bit of sand on bottom.   Little tricky shot, but everything is great this week, so a lot of confidence, so just try and make a bunker shot.   Then into the breeze helped that shot, so more comfortably try and make a bunker shot. 

Q.   Playing perfectly for 54 holes with no bogeys and then on the first tee today you hit one to the right.   Were you a little nervous, and did the wind affect that a little bit? 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   No.   Today nothing nervous the whole time.   But forceful wind in off the left, so try and make a slow draw, a little bit strong down impact, but hitting on a little bit of hill, so just take the wind going way right.   But trying second shot near the green, and chip just lip out the first hole.   But bad bogey, but here it's not bad. 

Q.   You're not a very emotional player, but on No.17 when you parred and hit that putt, you gave it a fist pump, like "yeah."   Can you tell me your thought when you did that?   Why was that so big for you? 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Yeah, that was a clutch putt.   If I miss that putt it's just one shot, so makes 18 a little easier because it's not just one shot.   But made that putt and then two‑shot lead, very comfortable the last hole, and 16 and 17 are key today. 

Q.   Why do you think you weren't very nervous out there today? 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Why not nervous? 

Q.   Yeah. 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Because very disappointing last whole season, so very good experience for my game, especially mental.   My mentally very stronger when I struggled last year, so never nervous in that time.

Q.   Is this week the best you've ever hit your irons? 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Probably, yeah.   A lot of missed greens today, but heavy wind.   First year 2008 Asian Tour I got three days no bogeys first time, and then this time second time.   But same situation that time; make bogey on first, final round, and lose the‑‑ finish in second place.   But this week, today like different situation. 

Q.   Is that a Korean tradition to get a beer bath after a win, and what did Y.E. tell you? 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Sometimes water, sometimes like champagne, but very good friend on the PGA TOUR, Y.E. Yang, and all the Korean guys.   But that guy told me last night, all the people like cheering for me and stuff like that, so I said no problem because I finish and then not sure after tomorrow what finish, if I can win, so it doesn't matter, we're celebrating next week in Charlotte, so it doesn't matter. 
But Y.E. is on a 6:30 flight, but he come back to here just to celebrate a little bit.   So really happy. 

Q.   By winning this tournament, that automatically gets you into next year's Masters.   How does that feel that that will be your first time in the Masters, probably something you always wanted to play in? 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   Yeah, dream come true when I started at seven playing golf.   I dreamed of always playing PGA TOUR‑‑ or playing with like‑‑ or top 10 player or playing any major or especially Masters.   But dream come true today, and then very exciting for playing in the Masters.   I can't wait for next Monday. 
Q.   Did you have a message for the fans or what you hoped this victory brought to the South Korean fans, a little happiness or something in your home country? 
SEUNG‑YUL NOH:   I'm not sure.   I'm not sure.   But hopefully they'll be happy for the Korean guy and hopefully win the next week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT