BUICK OPEN
August 10, 2001
Craig Perks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CRAIG PERKS:  Yeah, it felt good.  It was obviously -- yesterday was a good score and to come out early this morning you know, after obviously not much rest at night and to follow it up with another solid round is good.  I had a couple of loose shots coming down the stretch but I really played well overall and drove it well again and made some putts, made some good putts when I had to. 

Q.  You haven't made the cut often this year.  What is it like to not only make the cut but to be, who knows where, but you are up on the leaderboard somewhere by the end of the day; what is that like?

CRAIG PERKS: I have missed a lot of cuts but they have been basically by -- a lot of them 80, 90% of them have been by a shot.  I have been basically been playing well over here, just couldn't get over the hump after 36 holes.  I always seemed to be right on the cut line Friday afternoon.  So it feels good.  I work hard and I am trying get to the top of the leaderboard some weeks, it just doesn't happen. 

Q.  126 on the money list, this has got to feel good knowing that you are going to have one more paycheck?

CRAIG PERKS: Yeah it does.  Hate to be 126 after the last event of the year, but we got a lot of tournaments left and you know, if I can continue playing like I have been the last three, four weeks then I really feel like I will be in good shape by the end of the year. 

Q.  Usually when you don't make the cut do you hang around that weekend or do you get out and head --

CRAIG PERKS: I told my wife I actually hate to sit around waiting.  I'd rather get to the next event or go home, or you know, we have been out on the road now for three, four weeks I have just  -- I have stuck around and you know, I played in a couple of Pro-Ams off site, but generally if  -- you know, six to one-half a dozen of the other.  Some weeks I will stick around if it's a long way to go home, then come back another week, I will just get out of there.  It is actually nice to come down Friday in the second round  -- I never worried about the cut and I have been worrying about it all year.  When you are out of the bubble all year you seem to worry about it.  So it was nice to get off to a good start and just continue to play well. 

Q.  Have you ever heard of Jay or Lionel (inaudible) --

CRAIG PERKS: Yes, sir.  I played a lot of golf with Lionel -- well, I can't say a lot.  But three or four rounds, he lived in LaFayette.  I got a lot of stories, very good friend of mine who was actually my best man at my wedding was -- kind of grew up nearly in that era.  When I first arrived in Lafayette he told me a lot about Lionel and Jay I have got the pleasure of meeting Lionel and played a little bit of golf.

Q.  How did you get from Down Under over into  --

CRAIG PERKS: I started on a golf scholarship at the University of Oklahoma, and while at Oklahoma we played college events in Lafayette, and a college roommate or teammate of mine was  -- he was also from my home town in New Zealand, he was basically my big brother in college.  When he left I felt a little lost.  I didn't really get on with the coach, and actually went on a recruiting trip after my (inaudible)  -- I played two years and I guess the start of my junior year made a trip to Lafayette.  I met some phenomenal people.  I met my wife down there after going to college for a couple years and just stayed.

Q.  Your accent is a little strange down there?

CRAIG PERKS: No, theirs is strange, mine is not.  When I first arrived down there, I couldn't understand them and they couldn't understand me so we had a great time.  But no, I think that  -- it's  great country down there, really is.  Got some of the best people in the world.  Obviously the food is unique; got the humidity, but I like it down there.  It has been a lot of fun.  I have met a lot of great people down there.

Q.  When was the last time you were close to winning a tournament and what did you do mentally to get ready for the last two days?

CRAIG PERKS: Well, Honda I finished second but I started the day   -- I mean, I am not sure maybe Top-10, top 12 I just got off to a great start, so, I'd have to go back to 1999, I think where -- I think I was in the last group on Sunday at a Nike event in Oregon played with Kelly Gibson (phonetic), the eventual winner.  I am not going to approach it any different.  We still have got to go out there and play golf.  I am just going to try and continue to do the things I have been doing and you know, I think this whole ride that we are on it is experience for me, it really is.  I feel like when I play well I can compete out here.  I have -- I had a fourth at Canada and a second at the Honda and I am playing well.  Again I am at the top of the leaderboard, so I just  -- you know, if I can continue to drive it well and putt well, I will be in good shape. 

Q.  (Inaudible)

CRAIG PERKS: The golf course played longer, no question with the rain overnight and the fairways were a lot softer.  But the greens were soft as well so you could be a lot more aggressive with your iron shots into the green and then with us being the second group in the morning the greens were perfect.

Q.  (Inaudible)

CRAIG PERKS: I lost in playoff to Michael Campbell at the New Zealand Open at the start of the 2000 series so that was another really good opportunity, I kind of shot a low number on that round as well, but you know, I mean, it is still golf, and whether it is Phil Mickelson or some, you know, some unknown on the Nike Tour or the small Tours you just got take care of yourself. You can't get wrapped up what anyone else is doing.  Hopefully you can play well and come out on top at the end. 

Q.  Do you have any of your family here?

CRAIG PERKS: My wife is right back there. My two kids are here.  I have little five year old girl and nearly a 3 year old boy.  They have been travelling a lot this summer.  It has been great.  My family they are all in New Zealand, so, they don't get out much.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT