HENGQIN LIFE WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
November 3, 2017
Shuai Peng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. PENG/E. Vesnina
6-2, 1-0 [Ret.]
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. It's not the ideal way to end the season, perhaps, but how were you feeling out there on the court?  What did you make of the crowd support?
SHUAI PENG: I didn't think too much.  Before the match I did not know she was have injured, but when the first game, I saw like some dropshots she could not really move.  That's why I make the dropshot.
It's really tough, because every year, you know, we have like a really long season, and sometime you get, like, a long year with your body and it's not that easy.
I just hope that she can have some good rest and to be good feeling with next year, and me too, because with my knee.  I was really happy too with this year and I finish basically this year the last match.  I didn't think too much win today go on court.  I just try and play some good tennis and the match for the fans, and I was really happy to be playing here and just, like, yeah, happy for everything.
Q. This was your tenth time playing Elena.  I'm curious have you ever played anyone else that many times?  Is it different to be on the court with someone you have faced that many times in your career?
SHUAI PENG: Well, yeah, I think it's not only singles.  Doubles we also play many, many times.  And we are same age, so you can see like we have been out there maybe more than ten years.
Wish like in the future we could play more, singles and doubles (smiling).
Q. Finally, how do you assess your season?  A lot of changes, but some really good results from you.  What is your take?
SHUAI PENG: Well, I think from, like, this my second year after the surgery, coming back singles really appreciate it and also really thanks for everyone who is supporting me with the doctor, coach, fans, everything, and to supporting me, the people, and to have that I feel is really surprise and really happy this year what I did it.  And then with my singles, my doubles, and I was really looking for next year.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.
Q. Actually, starting 2011 you have beaten a lot of players and actually you were top 20 by the end of 2011 and again top 30 in 2013.  In the past six years, what has been the most biggest changes for your career?
SHUAI PENG: Yes, there has been a lot of changes.  Actually, after US Open, when I was doing my winter training, I started feel issues with my back and lower back, so I didn't think that I need to do a career choice at the time, because with that choice I don't really have a lot of control.  All I can do is choose to take the surgery.  But whether I can continue playing, I didn't have an idea back then.
So within that three or four months it happened really sudden.  So in my past over ten years of career, I never gave up.  But then when it really happens, I just thought to myself that I need to take another try so there will be no regrets in the future.
I spent all my youth for this sport and I have my emotions for this, so both me and my coaches have a lot of pressure.
But then last year my playing was not that optimistic, and I didn't have a lot of control, and now I understand why doctors were reluctant to perform surgery on me when I went from Germany to the States.  Actually, without stem cell, probably there will be no choice for me to go back to the court again.
I also understand that why I need to take those surgeries after Wimbledon, once on my nerves, once on my lumbar.  Those actually gave me a lot of confidence.
So I had a struggling, but I'm still happy to be here, and a lot of things that happen are unexpected, but I do thank a lot of people for their support.
Q. How do you feel right now?  Are you going to push yourself to go forward?
SHUAI PENG: Well, always my goal would be to look forward and go forward.  Probably when I was top 700, my goal would be top 500 or 200, but then when I got there, my goal would be again top 150, then top 100.  So my goal is always to push forward.
I'd like to take a positive mind all the time.  And most of us play a lot of games, and we may have a lot of injuries.  Sometimes through all those injuries, you stick with your game.  Sometimes you don't.
But anyway, you need to maintain a positive mindset.  But if injuries are too severe, you need to slow down a bit.  So I'm happy that I can play here this year, and a lot of things that happened were unexpected.  But this is the end of the season now, and I am probably going to take some rest.
And for next year my goal for singles would be top 25 or even 20.  And for doubles, I hope that my ranking can go even higher.  I will be okay if not.  So that's just my goal for now.
Q. So this is the end of the season.  As someone who enjoys food and eating, are you going to have some time eating without worries?  What is your plans for any vacation and for your future training?
SHUAI PENG: My first priority for the offseason is, first of all, I need to go to Germany for my therapy, because I have about two months' time so we have enough time for the therapy, and I will have my knee therapy.  That's much easier than the therapy on my lower back.
And when I come back, I'd like to take some time traveling for a few weeks, because I do have time now.  I am really tired at the moment, so I am not going to rush into training, but my winter training will last three to four weeks.  I'm really expecting next year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT