CHINA OPEN
October 3, 2014
Shuai Peng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English please.  
   
 Q.   You and Andrea looked great together.   Do you think it will be a long‑term partnership?   What do you think your chances are in the final?  
    SHUAI PENG:   First, we don't know who we playing tomorrow because they didn't play yet.   But we will fight and try our best on the court.   
    Play at home always with pressure because you want to play good.   I feel today is a bit better than yesterday.   Today so nervous, two double fault in a row.   
    It's so nice play with Andrea.   We see after the tournament.   In the tournament we didn't, like, talking about next year yet.   So after tournament, yes.   
   
 Q.   What do you think you and Andrea did best tonight?  
    SHUAI PENG:   I think we're fight together because, like, in the doubles sometimes you play good, then sometimes not.   
    Seem like yesterday beginning of the match I was serve well, and in the end it was really tight and I was get nervous.   Andrea at the time holded.   
    Second set, when we finished the match, she hold her serve.   Always help each other and also supporting each other I think is most important for the doubles.   Every day, everybody feel different.   If you want to stay longer, I think this is most important.  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel more pressure playing in Beijing or you just enjoy the support from the Chinese fans?  
    SHUAI PENG:   I think next year in Beijing I would like to do a good job.   We want to do a good job, but at the same time there is a lot of pressure on me.   Just like yesterday after the match, I talked with Andrea.   It is rare for us to make double‑faults.   Yesterday we made a lot of errors because of the nervousness and pressure.   
    The fans gave us a lot of support.   After each match they asked for my signature or the towel.   This year we are very happy.   As for those fans, they take pictures of us for our signatures, so we're happy for this year.   
   
 Q.   When you teamed up with Hsieh Su‑Wei, you won the China Open title.   This time you teamed up with this new partner.   Your performance is really good right now.   You've made it into the final this year.   Doubles needs collaboration as well as strategy.   From the perspective of strategy and tactics, as for these two partners, what are the differences between them?   On the court, what kind of adjustment should you make for better collaboration with your partner?   
    SHUAI PENG:   In terms of Hsieh Su‑Wei and this new partner, of course I feel different.   I don't want to compare them too much.   I will team up with Hsieh Su‑Wei in Singapore in the Final this year.   
    From the tactics perspective, when I teamed up with Hsieh Su‑Wei, I'm always on the baseline.   As for Andrea, my standing position is quite normal.   In doubles with Hsieh Su‑Wei, if she serves, I should be on the baseline.   
   
 Q.   With Vinci and Errani, you played them many times.   In previous matches you lost to them.   
    SHUAI PENG:   As for Vinci and Errani, they were very steady and stable.   For the whole year and for the past two years they were very stable and steady.   I think their partnership is longer than the partnership between Hsieh Su‑Wei and I.   Errani and Vinci have the kind of chemistry between them.   Doubles is different than singles.   Errani and Vinci can do a good job in doubles and singles.   
   
 Q.   Do you have a good cooperation with your physical trainer, and how about your physical condition?   In Singapore, with the hot weather, what kind of adjustments will you make in terms of the conditions?  
    SHUAI PENG:   At the beginning of this year, at the Australian Open, I teamed up with this new partner.   She is very young and energetic.   At the very beginning we tried our best to cooperate better.   
    I mean, this physical trainer is very good.   When we have different ideas, she is open to different ideas and opinions.   Right now we cooperate better than what we did at the very beginning of this year.   
    As for this year, my physical condition is quite good.   Only with a few injuries this year.   Sometimes maybe there is a little injury with my wrist, but no major injuries, so I'm happy with that.   
    Actually each year we play a lot of matches in hot weather.   Especially at the US Open I cramped.   After that match, I met Navratilova.   I asked about this question from her.   I said, Is it possible for me to do more training in hot weather?   She replied, No, no, no, you should not do it.   She said when she played the US Open one year, she cramped and she thought about training in very hot weather.   She said that I went there and each day I thought about how to keep cool, how to calm down.   As for the next year at the US Open, it was only 27 degrees, but she still lost the match.   
    This year at the Australian Open, it was very hot, about 40 degrees.   A lot of players cramped and were under the weather.   I think cramping is common.   One way is to drink more water.   In the near future I shall drink more water and also do more physical training.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT