CHINA OPEN
October 2, 2014
Shuai Peng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese, please. 

Q.   So this is the second week for you to work with your new partner.   What is the difference between the new partner and the old partner?   In what way do you feel better working with the new partner? 
    SHUAI PENG:   I'm not really comparing with the old partners, because I had a lot of partners before.   I will focus on how we can work better together, how we can create better chemistry. 
    Up to now, for both of us, we're getting used to each other.   Before we did not really know each other.   Now we get to talk with each other in the way how we hit the balls.   We are more familiar with each other. 

Q.   For next year, are you going to play with her, a long‑term partnership?
    SHUAI PENG:   I'm not really following your question.   Next year, two of us? 

Q.   For next year's tournaments, are you going to play doubles with her?   Do you have an agreement with her?
    SHUAI PENG:   We don't know yet.   Let's wait for the end of this tournament. 

Q.   After Li Na's retirement, you are the No.1 of women's tennis in China.   A lot of people are focusing on you.   Do you feel any pressure?   And another question.   At this year's Final, are you going to Singapore with your partner?   You have never been to Singapore before, right? 
    SHUAI PENG:   Well, I've been to Singapore.   I played an exhibition, and more than once actually, if I remember correctly. 
    And I will definitely go with Hsieh Su‑Wei to the Final in Singapore.   I've been working with her for the whole year.   Our goal was to fight until the end to the Finals in Singapore. 
    To answer your first question, in Wuhan, in a lot of press conferences, a lot of people asked me this question.   My answer is, I would only focus on my game, I would not focus on other issues. 

Q.   The past two years in singles and doubles you have had really good results, including this season.   What are your plans and goals for singles and doubles? 
    SHUAI PENG:   This year I'm pretty happy with the results.   At the beginning of the year I had difficulties changing coaches, there were some swings with my performance, and some issuing controlling my emotions.   I would like to thank my coach, for more than a decade he's been helping me, supporting me when I'm down in my career.   I would like to thank my physical trainer, helping me with my singles and doubles.   I've had some breakthroughs in my career. 
    For doubles I have fewer matches than those in singles.   However, I would try to balance these two.   There will be different choices in terms of the competition.   I will have different choices. 

Q.   This year the Finals are in Singapore.   The week before the Finals, are you going to Moscow? 
    SHUAI PENG:   This is too far away.   After Tainjin, I will come back to Beijing, train for another week.   I'll go back to the indoor courts.   The Finals will be an indoor competition.   I will focus on indoor training. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT