CHINA OPEN
September 29, 2014
Shuai Peng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. PENG/Z. Kai‑Lin
      6‑4, 6‑1

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English. 

Q.   The first nine games went by without a hold of serve by either player.   How do you explain that? 
    SHUAI PENG:   Yeah, even myself, I felt something not right in the moment.   Maybe she return well, and then I don't know.   Beginning of the match, I just feel so tight.   I was so nervous. 
    I want to play good, but I don't know what happened in there.   But finally the good thing is in the number five serve game, I hold it (laughter). 

Q.   What changed when you were able to start holding serve?
    SHUAI PENG:   At 5‑4 I calling the coach on court.   I just speak with him.   I just feel so tight.   He like, Just be ready after your serve, the first ball.   It's not I didn't ready.   He felt just like maybe so tight, sometimes the mind or the body, you know, doesn't work.   He just tell me be ready after my first or second serve, then just be ready the first ball. 
    I just try to do it, and I maked it, yeah. 

Q.   After a great showing at the US Open, what have you been focusing on?
    SHUAI PENG:   First I just like, you know, took some day rest.   Then I just want to get like my body coming back.   It's not like that fast, because I felt like it's a big fight.   It's not only like US Open, it's a long season for this year. 
    After I start, I can like practice, working some like fitness.   But now is not right time to work something, do something, improve it, because still in a tournament. 
    So I think I will give like this moment in winter training time.   Now I just try to be take care for my body, be careful not get some like injury.   Because the body really tired, you still fighting, play like many matches in the tournament.   It's something like your body cannot control.   Maybe have some injuries. 
    Right now I focus take care of my body, still focus my tennis, then, yeah, do like what I can do, yeah. 
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese. 

Q.   In this match you broke each other a lot of games.   I don't know what caused that.   What changed? 
    SHUAI PENG:   At the very beginning I was a little bit nervous.   I never played her before.   At the beginning of the first set, I felt a little bit strange.   It is really strange to lose four serving games in a row.   I wasn't playing well in the serves in the first set. 
    When it's 5‑4, I talked to my coach.   I was a little bit nervous.   My coach told me to calm down after the serve, actually to be ready for the first rally after the first serve. 
    At the beginning of the 10th game, it was my serving game.   I felt a little bit nervous.   I forgot how to do it, how to play my game on the court. 

Q.   Your condition, compared to your form in the US Open... 
    SHUAI PENG:   It's hard to compare.   When I was in the US Open, I didn't know what kind of condition I was in.   Kvitova will be my opponent for the next round.   I think she's a really strong competitor.   I saw her game.   I'm not thinking too much.   I will just give my 100% since she is a really strong opponent. 
    After today's match ‑ how do I put it ‑ mentally I think I should win this match.   But at the beginning I was really nervous.   I felt a little bit of pressure.   First time competing with Zhang Kai‑Lin.   I thought she played really well. 
    In the second set I got my rhythm, my service.   I controlled better than in the first set. 

Q.   You had really good results at the US Open.   How much time did you prepare for it?   How can you keep up that form? 
    SHUAI PENG:   Well, you are back in Beijing.   I don't know.   A lot of people are saying conditions.   I have a lot of matches every year.   50% of the time I was playing at a below‑average condition.   I was just thinking about how to beat my opponent.   Sometimes our matches are back‑to‑back.   It's really hard to adjust to different conditions, different courts, different balls, different weather.   It is really hard to adjust. 
    A lot of the times I wasn't playing at the best level of condition.   Sometimes you have to adjust when you are at a below‑average condition.   How can you grasp the opportunity?   How can you beat your opponent? 
    For me, I think for every match the most important thing is to be better than your opponent. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT