DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 25, 2014
Shuai Peng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







HLAVACKOVA‑PENG/Koukalova‑Garrigues
  7‑5, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   (Through translation.)   First, congratulations for you to advance to the semifinal.   In your first set, first you took the lead 4‑0, but your opponents just came back strong and win another four games.   So is there any fluctuation on your mindset, and how did you adjust your pace and communicate with your partner? 
SHUAI PENG:   (Through translation.)   In the first four games, we all want to scratch the last point, and I think that if we won the first game and there is some luck element.   So our opponents also played very well in the first set. 
We were a little bit anxious, but we still encourage each other to play better in the next few points.   And actually, we still have a few times to adapt to each other, so we still have a little difference in pace and way of playing.   So in the next few matches we may have more time to adjust to each other. 

Q.   (Through translation.)   Right now people are very concerned, very caring about the doubles of your play.   Is there any future plans and expectation of your single matches? 
SHUAI PENG:   (Through translation.)   I really expect a lot both on my singles and the doubles.   Just like I was asked before, people ask me that whether I would aim as the top 10 in single matches.   I really don't know. 
And also, before the US Open, people asked me if I will set my goal as the top four.   I just gave a smile to that.   Every morning when I woke up, I just want to try my best to finish my training, and I also hope that I can make progress every single day.
So I will try anyway my best to fulfill my expectation and my goals.   I don't know what the result might be, but I will try my best to do my performance. 

Q.   (Through translation.)   And we all know that you had a different division of labor with your partner in this match and you focus many on approaching the net.   So it must have some differences with your partnership with Hsieh Su‑Wei, so how did you deal with it?   Since the Wuhan Open is very near, very close to the China Open in terms of the schedule, so how did you adjust yourself to different kind of matches?
SHUAI PENG:   (Through translation.)   When I paired with Hsieh Su‑Wei, we did indeed have some problems in dividing our labors.   Our coach just asked me to many focus on the baseline.
So we indeed have a lot of, have some different opinions and conflicts in this kind of division.   But every partner has different style of playing.   As for me, I really love approaching the net. 
For the second question, the Wuhan is much near to Beijing than Tokyo, and we don't have jet lag between Wuhan and Beijing.   So we will not arouse some problems for me.   I would just like to finish this Wuhan Open and try my best in the later times.
It's been a long time since I have been to Beijing, so I really want to come back to Beijing. 

Q.   (Through translation.)   You just mentioned when you paired with Hsieh Su‑Wei your coach Paul will suggest you to focus on the baseline and he is somewhat aggressive in this decision.   So when you paired with Andrea, who will control the tactics? 
SHUAI PENG:   (Through translation.)   We discuss during the matches.   When I paired with Hsieh Su‑Wei, the coach will more focus on Hsieh Su‑Wei's performance, and she suggest me to focus on the baseline.   So I will also prepare for baseline, because it was more fitted for Hsieh Su‑Wei.
During our match, just like me and Andrea, we discuss our tactics and division of labor. 

Q.   (Through translation.)   When we choose the partner to do the doubles, we will also take many things into consideration like the tactics and the personality of your partner.   So since we are not very familiar with Andrea, can you describe Andrea for us. 
SHUAI PENG:   (Through translation.)   She has yellow hair, blonde hair, blue eyes, and she's very skinny and she comes from Czech. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT