U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2014
Shuai Peng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  S. PENG/B. Bencic6-2, 6-1THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. How are you feeling in this moment?  Have the emotions hit you yet?SHUAI PENG: Well, was really happy, exciting that, and then also my body feel like it's tired because it's like one half awake, and even mentally, because before I play singles and doubles. But still really happy, I think.  Excited.  Yeah.Q. To be in your first Grand Slam semifinal and you haven't dropped a set in this tournament.  No one has taken more than four games from you.  How does it feel to be going to your first semifinal in a Grand Slam and playing as well as you are playing?SHUAI PENG: Well, it's really happy what I did it now.  And then thinking from the beginning year I was doing lot of fitness and also like I keep practice, try to improve my game. Maybe this time I find a way or I catch like right time.  I don't know. And then just try to like do what I can do on the court, and then -- maybe before in the match I was like tight or nervous, afraid to play, but this time, for this moment, I feel myself was quite okay.Q. I mean, whether you face Caroline or Sara, it's going to be a tough match.  Do you feel confident in your ability to take either one of those opponents?SHUAI PENG: Well, they both beat me more than I beat them.  That's for sure.  Also is like very good player and they have like really good movement and they both really strong mentally and really tough. For now I think I will just like try to rest and when they come here, I will try to focus again.  Yeah, try to enjoy that.Q. How confident are you feeling now with the results that you've had?SHUAI PENG: Well, I think from like last couple of matches, I think -- end of the match I think is really like tough decision even I play with Aggie.  Yes, two set, but also have a big chance maybe she come back in second set. Even Vinci were like really like close to the point and a lot of rallies.  I didn't realize thinking just like two set or how many they win the game.  I feel in the match it's really like tough. And then after court is different then, so I think for now is I just try to rest and then be focused more when they coming.  Yeah.Q. (Indiscernible.)SHUAI PENG: I dream about it.  Because everybody was like ask me all week, maybe you have a chance to get quarters, so I was really happy first time quarters. And I went to the semis. Of course is exciting, is surprise, but is not like I feel like I cannot.Q. You said you dreamed about it.  What exactly did you dream about?SHUAI PENG: I think everybody like want to do their best in the Grand Slam and then want to try to like best that they can go to the deep, to how far they can. So now I am in the semis, I keep going dream.Q. Zheng Jie made the semifinals of Wimbledon and Li Na obviously took majors.  Why do you think it took you a little bit longer to reach this career result?SHUAI PENG: They are both really good tennis player, and even Zheng Jie which is really good also in doubles. Everybody have different situation with their different career, because, you know, because it's not a short time.  More than 10, 20 years.  When from like when turn pro I have really good first two years, but after years I get really, really tough situation with my tennis.  I almost stopped playing like three or four years is really tough with the mentally. A lot of tennis, but in the moment, you know, I want to like enjoy that.  And then slowly, slowly, slowly like my team tell me to keep going, like to make like a first way I play tennis I dream about it. Then after, 2011 I have really good year.  Reached, yeah, best in my singles ranking.  And then after I have like many injury. Then still like, you know, I don't know, it's just like really tough the situation.  And then just try like what I can do and keep working.  Was really happy this time.Q. When was the lowest moment for you when you thought that you might actually stop playing?SHUAI PENG: One time was my 12 years old and then one time is in the 2006.  Yeah.  These two times actually is kind of like I almost stop played. Because my 12 years almost was doesn't have that much choice, because the doctor was telling me maybe I have to stop it.  But is really lucky, you know, like I can come back and play. And 2006 was also big another challenger, and then finally I maked it.Q. What do you remember of your match played versus Errani?SHUAI PENG: You mean doubles?Q. No, in singles.SHUAI PENG: Singles, okay.  I play her in Charleston.  It was like really also close, the match. I don't remember two set or three sets.  Actually I think it was like -- and the clay court is her best court.  And then she's big fight and then she move so well. Yeah.Q. Belinda said you are very good at hitting angle shots and that she was assuming maybe you also played doubles so that helps using the kind of angle shot.  Do you agree with her opinion?SHUAI PENG: I still feel doubles is doubles; singles is separate game.  Because singles you need to physically you need to be more strong because you cover the court more. And then doubles is you need to share play with partner together. The angle shot I feel -- singles and doubles you both need to use that, so... Yeah.Q. You said when you were 12 the doctor told you that you might not be able to keep playing tennis.  What was wrong with you?  What was that moment like for you?SHUAI PENG: Is heart surgery when 12 years when I make it.  It's a little bit tough to explain in English.  I'm sorry for that. After I stop, because one year with surgery and then after I was okay to check me for play with sport.Q. What was wrong with your heart?SHUAI PENG: It's a born from the natural, my mom, and then and it's, how do you say?  You know, was like, you know, the blood one way with the air way is not, and then is something mixed it.  Yeah, so they have to make the separate.Q. What was that year not playing like for you?  The year where you couldn't play, what was that year like?SHUAI PENG: When I 12 years old?Q. After the surgery when you couldn't play tennis.SHUAI PENG: Oh, because I doing the surgery, I have to recover, wait, and then...Q. What did that feel like for you, not being able to play?SHUAI PENG: Because, you know, when this is almost like 15 years before.  The time is actually like quite big surgery.  They say because if I keep play they worry about if I have a problem.  But after the surgery I was okay to do the sport. Yeah.Q. Did you also, maybe not, couldn't continue when you had a bit of a dispute with your government about funding?  Was that a point in your life where maybe you wouldn't have continued playing?SHUAI PENG: Another tough question (smiling).  Yes, tennis in my country start slow.  Is not like Europe or U.S. like the long history. So maybe I catch in the moment.  It's like they also want to like what is professional tennis, and they also like how to building good player and then maybe we like catch like -- I feel the time should be like go to my way; they feel like is go to maybe their way. And then -- but I think from government, they like want to be play good tennis, have good result.  So maybe from different angle and everybody is thinking or feeling different it. So after they have a fight.  But the good news we maked it or find a way, and now is going really good.Q. You beat Kim Clijsters in 2005.  Kim said she believed you could be a top 5 player.  Did that put pressure on you?  How good do you feel your best is?SHUAI PENG: I still really remember the match.  Is also one of the amazing time for me. It's almost like 10 years.  It's long time.  I didn't feel not as old as it, so I still try and I still looking forward, try my best, keep going working hard, and then do what I can do.Q. You said many times that you actually enjoyed being in Li Na's shadow.  That the attention was on Li Na and you enjoyed that.SHUAI PENG: I never said that (smiling).Q. Are you looking forward to kind of having the spotlight and the attention now on you based off of this result?SHUAI PENG: I think because we are from same country and both is women, that's why everybody like compete.  You know, same country the player. She's like one the really good tennis player because she have like a lot of big win and then she's like really good player. But everybody is different it.  I feel was like was like do what, like how do you say, like ourself, because every time tennis player get different body, you know, like a different feeling. So just do ourself, like the best, challenger ourself what we can do. So we're from same country, but she meet me I never feel like I was in her shadow, because I love play.  Also, even singles or doubles I have a good time with her before my partner and we out in the US Open. But still feel like a lot enjoy with the tennis.  I really enjoy it.  That's why I continue now.  Like I just love to played it.  So never feel in her shadow.  Yeah.Q. When you look at what you've achieved in doubles with Grand Slam titles and now a singles semifinal, would you trade one for the other?  At the moment, which is bigger for you, what you've achieved here or what you've achieved in doubles?  And also, have you heard from anybody back home?  Has Li Na sent you any messages or anything?SHUAI PENG: Actually is, you know, like a little bit funny, because before, when 2011 I make the my best ranking with my singles and then you know, like I have good feeling. So after I go with my partner like start from last year with the Wimbledon, and then this year French Open.  They ask me, Are you singles player or doubles player?  I feel I'm tennis player (smiling). And then so now is good.  I show them I play both, singles and then doubles.  And then singles is myself always like a big challenger, you know, with all the tennis, you know, tennis player.  But doubles is the two person.  The thing is not like one way. So all the time I play with her I will try my best, because sometime they ask, Oh, if you play singles, doubles, how you going to do with your body, with your energy?  Are you going to give up the doubles or fight with the singles? No, I just -- when they coming, I try like what I can do with her.  Because if I don't play with her, I will say to her, same like in Montreal.  I'm like from quallies Montreal and the Cincinnati, but when I in the doubles I will still play with her. I gave up the Cincinnati, because we are lose the Cincinnati doubles and I go play the New Haven.  Like, how do you say, I have nothing to, how do you say, because I was in singles I give up.  Same like yesterday.  I'm try, but, you know, like it's really tough. We are lost 6-7 and the 4-6.  My body actually is I feel is dead, so dizzy in the court. So for sure I would like focus more with my singles.  But if I enter to my partner, okay, I try my best.  And then so in the future I still love to play doubles, so basically I need to work more with my fitness and be more stronger.  Yeah.Q. Any messages from Li?SHUAI PENG: No.  Yeah.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT