HENGQIN LIFE WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
October 31, 2017
Shuai Peng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. VANDEWEGHE/S. Peng
3-6, 6-3, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. If you could tell in a few words your feelings about the game, what was right, what was wrong?  What happened after a good start in the next sets?
SHUAI PENG: Well, is first time we played it.  I'm not really, like, how do you say, play her before, even practice.  And last year played doubles against with her, and I know she have, like, really powerful serve.  But today the beginning started, I feel like I had really good start of game.  And for the second set and then third set she start play better.  In first set she have more unforced error.  Then the second set and the third set, I think it's really good, like, her game also.  Just like she was really powerful.  And sometime I try attacking, because I didn't really hit when I want to hit to the angle.  And she have really good serve.
And then, yeah.  I think maybe I need to like make me more stronger and to handle like with heavy ball, because she was big serve, big girl, and then sometime, you know, like on my serve game I have a more pressure with that.  I think if I can handle more power and I can serve more stronger, I think I can play better.  Yeah.
Q. Before you played, given that she was No. 2 seed, did you think you had a good chance to win?  Are you feeling quite confident at the moment?
SHUAI PENG: Well, I didn't think too much about the ranking and what seeded.  For me it's really excited to get a wildcard to play in this tournament.
For sure it's really strong, because all basically like Top 20 ranking for this year, the player.  She was really good player, and today when it started I didn't think too much about win or lose.  Just like have to be play and fight on the court and try your best.
Sometime, like, you make it and sometime you didn't not it.  But I think it's really like a good experience for me, because first time for in the Zhuhai, the Masters, and hopefully I have more focus with my second match.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.
Q. So we're using a round-robin mechanism for this game.  No matter you win or lose for the first one, you're still going to play for the second and third round.  How does this mechanism help you in terms of improving your skills?  How do you comment on this mechanism?
SHUAI PENG: Basically I don't see any difference, because playing is playing.  Either way we are going to play.  And if traditional way, if you lose the first one, you're out.  But with round robin you're still going to play.  But anyway, I'm happy to be here for this year.
Q. This is your first time here at this court, and we're sorry to see the result of the first game.  However, can you comment on the both hardware and software such as audience at Hengqin Tennis Center?
SHUAI PENG: First of all, I'm happy to be here and center court is super nice.  Actually, we know that two months ago there was a huge hurricane that made a lot of damage to the court, and I particularly thank the organization of the center here, because we were asking if the court would be ready by the time we come here, and we know these short two months there must have been a lot of workload, a lot of taking a part and a lot of building.  We heard that many trees were completely out during the hurricane.  We thank all the staff here, and I'm happy to be here.
Regarding the audience, actually, things are completely different from it was 10 years ago.  I remember, actually, when I was 18, I went to Hunan for major match, game there, and in the past 10 years we see a lot of growth in terms of both men's and women's pro athletes in China.  We have more and more audience who understand tennis and who knows how to better watch tennis games.
I can still say that this is a complete difference even from things were in 2008.  We are both learning.  And the ambience here is great.  Although I lost first match, it was still a good match.  And I do thank all the support I received from the audience.  Thanks.
Q. This is the end of the season.  Many players complain they are too tired from the season.  How do you particularly maintain your strength?
SHUAI PENG: It has been a very long year for me, and I had lots of ups and downs.  However, I'm still in a great physique at the moment.
However, I have had back-to-back games and competitions from Guangzhou, Wuhan, and here.  And as I was posting on my moments on my WeChat, at some point I was having hallucinations in my head.  I was dreaming of Emperor Qin of the Qin Dynasty and he was building a Great Wall.  So at some point I was super tired.
Q. So your next opponent will be Elena Vesnina and you played her many times with both losses and wins.  Are you confident you can get that match, especially when you're playing on your home soil?
SHUAI PENG: Yes, I played her many times, both in singles and in doubles.
Everything actually depends on how you play on the particular day.  For example, you may have a bad day but then your opponent may have a worse day.  Today I feel I played pretty well, but my opponent did even better.
So I will keep a positive attitude towards result.  If I lose, I'll come back again.  Thanks.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT