U.S. OPEN
August 27, 2014
Shuai Peng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  S. PENG/A. Radwanska  6-3, 6-4   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  How satisfying is this win?  I mean, she's been playing great tennis, fourth seed.  How good do you feel to knock her out of the third round?  SHUAI PENG: Really happy and really exciting.  Before the match actually a lot of fans was like ask me in the e-mail, you know.  China, the web always say I play her four times and then I win her only one time and that was in the US Open four years ago. So maybe I saw from like long time the lucky may be coming back today.  In Australian Open I remember I have two match points.  Didn't make it.  Like three years ago or something, so today when I play I know she was really like tough one of top players, because she never miss and she's running so fast. She make like you saw a lot like angle, you know, really smart player.  And then for the match I was really happy today.  I have to running a lot.   Q.  You had several match points, and she was obviously fighting very, very hard.  Very dramatic points.  Your feeling at the end?  Were you feeling a bit nervous that maybe you let another match point get away?  Just talk about sort of the end of the match.  SHUAI PENG: Really no risk because I really, really want to win. And then beginning of match actually I also really nervous, because when the first set start is not like -- first game is not really good. But actually it's good.  I come back into match after two games really good. And then the end I think I just really want to win.  My mind, you know, like when I get to match point is really, tight, I just thinking like, you know -- I go through again for the Australia Open, to happen again, so like tell myself, you know, like I have to hit the ball.  You know, even maybe I missed it I still have to go for my shot because this is my weapon. And then finally the serve I maked it.   Q.  She was obviously disappointed, but she said in her press conference you were just the better player today.  Just how happy are you with the way you're playing tennis right now?  SHUAI PENG: How happy?  Now still happy (smiling). Well, I think everybody want to win.  And then always, you know, you win have better feeling.  For sure some day you play some like bad tennis because whole year is traveling. And then when the decisions (ph) was coming you just have to fight and keep going.  Also working hard to try to be more like stable.  Yeah.   Q.  You have a tough opponent coming up in your next match with Roberta.  SHUAI PENG: Vinci, right?   Q.  Talk about that match.  SHUAI PENG: We play many times doubles together.   Q.  So you know her game?  SHUAI PENG: Well, it's different than the doubles than play the singles.  We also play each other before. Okay.  I have some break to think about next round, mentally you think about.  You know, when you think about it's like so nervous and so tight. And then probably tomorrow I will have like first-round doubles.  So maybe now I give myself like a cooldown a little bit, mentally the break, rest. And then I was thinking tomorrow night, and then after fight again.  Yeah.   Q.  You played a lot of matches in your career against top 10 players.  Haven't won a lot of them.  But what do you learn from all those experiences, even when you lose, that you can use playing a player like her?  SHUAI PENG: Actually for my tennis career is a little bit up and down.  And also a little bit like tough situation because I have about like two times almost stop playing.  So it's really lucky I'm still here. And then with top player I play, I learn.  Their tennis maybe is different.  Some like to really power.  And like today, Radwanska, she's really smart.  You know, play the angles all different that. I want to learn like how I can be there.  Yeah, I think is not only like work hard, because I think on the tour everybody like try like their best. And I think that also in the match, when the chance coming, like how to make it, to take it.  And also maybe in like nervous or different situation, how can you choose to right a shot, right moment.  That also is like one of the key. Yeah.   Q.  How nice is it to also give China a big win here, especially with Li Na not here?  Fans at home still got a big win here.  SHUAI PENG: Yeah, because when she say she's not gonna play Montreal, Cincinnati, and also US Open, was like big news.  And then everybody was start talking, you know, like, also have someone others, like new in the air. But this year I think also is one of the maybe the best to have like six Chinese like on the girl main draw.  Three from quallies and also like they're like two, right, plus me in the second round?  Also not bad because they are young. And then I prefer have the Na Li.  They didn't watch me too much because there is more pressure.  Not easy to handle that. I still want to like working hard and just focus and enjoy my tennis.   Q.  You had a good run at Wimbledon.  Do you now expect more of yourself in Grand Slams?  After having like the success you had at Wimbledon and so forth, do you expect more of yourself in Grand Slam tournaments, and does it give you confidence that you can go deep in tournaments?  SHUAI PENG: I think I have to tell myself, you know, like I believe myself more.  And then when happen coming, maybe I need to like more courage or not be nervous, to worry about me so the shot maybe go more. It's not easy.  Talking not easy, but it's not easy make the swing and then clean mind. I think maybe I would try to like keep push myself to improve with this.  Yeah.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT