CHINA OPEN
October 1, 2013
Shuai Peng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   English questions.  
   
 Q.   Your partner said haven't been able to practice a lot together, but you've been winning tournaments.   How have you managed that?   
SHUAI PENG:   Yes, I think maybe because we have a lot of time play together, so we didn't train together.   So maybe all the time just spend the time like use the match for practice.  
And then I think because we also like, you know, know each other like more than ten years.   In juniors we play some tournament together, so it's not like after seven years we come to the like tour play we are not like really feel like always new person.  
First time we like try WTA tournament together we feel like have fun and it's comfortable.   Then we play together and it's like because she help me; I help her.   Then it's just like not really like‑‑ I think we're a good team, yeah.   (Smiling.)  
THE MODERATOR:   Chinese questions.   
   
 Q.   Just now you mentioned that you help each other.   Can you specifically tell us on the court or privately what kind of help are you supposed to give each other?   Especially on the court.   
SHUAI PENG:   Like what I told you just now.   When we are partnering for women's double, we give help to each other.   
Privately we don't have too much time to stay together.   Most time we spend together is on the court.   Su‑Wei is very much good before the net.   People always say that we are complementary to each other.   She is good at the net.   
Usually I like to stand at the baseline.   She's going to stand at the net.   When I am standing at the baseline, I can try to have a very good performance.   
And also, to be honest, it's very difficult to verbally guess what kind of tangible help we give to each other.  
In every single match we know what may be the right position.   And even before, we going to consult with each other.   We know exactly what kind of cooperation we will have.   
   
 Q.   So in that case, you're very much mature to work with her.   So you have really come to the end of this season.   Do you have any plan for next season in terms of women's doubles?   
SHUAI PENG:   I think you ask a very important and crucial question.   To be honest, maybe we will not partner with each other; maybe yes.   
But most chances is that we will not work with each other.   The media ask again why, and she answered that.   If you ask me why, I think we don't have to work out a very specific reason.  
It's okay to partner, then we partner with each other.   Next year the chances of partnering with each other is very much slim.  
Now, I can't answer your question.   Next question.   
   
 Q.   It seems that you're much thinner that you were two months ago.   Is it because of the quality of practice or whatever reason?   
SHUAI PENG:   Well, some people say that as well.   Everybody say that you look even more beautiful when you lose some weight.   But I didn't take diet intentionally.  
If I put on too much weight I feel that I can't be too flexible on the court.   But if you expect me to put on some weight, I think it's not that easy.   
Anyway, it's better to be skinny.   But if I can be a little bit even more stronger it could be better.   
But if you put on too much weight you might get injured on the court and you're not that flexible.   So skinny is good.   
But I have to increase my power and strength.   I didn't intentionally lose weight.   Probably I have too much practice or tournament.   
   
 Q.   Yesterday when I interview your coach, he said that you will put more energy on winning singles.   In terms of women's singles, do you have any specific target for next year or are you going to try to follow the given strategy?   
SHUAI PENG:   I think singles is the important part of my future plan next year.   But end of this year for the practice in winter, I think we're going to do that in a new team.   It's a brand new trial for me as well.   
To be honest, I will have a lot of expectation for the women's doubles this year, because we were yet to have the WTA final.   For next year, definitely I will have my goal.  
But whatever the goal could be, I have to make the goal possible step by step.   
   
 Q.   I want to have a better understanding of how many courses you have completed in terms of traditional Chinese culture at the university.   
SHUAI PENG:   In he very beginning when I chose the courses, actually I didn't expect to get the so‑called real degree, to be honest.  
I even don't have time for vacation, let alone going to the university for courses.   It's my interest.  
But on the other hand, I really pay tribute to the opportunity provided by the University of China.   If I have time, I'll definitely be very much willing to go to the classes to take courses.   
You know, to take courses and to get the grades is not ultimate purpose of my choice to take courses.   I'm fond of history, so that's why I'm dreaming of getting something leisure off sports.  
History is very much complex, contains a lot of history, stories, and how our Asian ancestry is evolving.   Chinese country has thousand years history.   It's really mysterious.   So this is my interest.   
On the other hand, the university is very much willing to give me the opportunity.   So I will prefer to read more books.   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT