CHINA OPEN
September 30, 2013
Shuai Peng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. ZHANG/S. Peng
  6‑3, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   What was your initial reaction to finding out you were playing another Chinese player in the first round?   There are only four of you in the main draw. 
SHUAI PENG:   Can you speak one more time, because I could not hear really well? 

Q.   What was your initial reaction to finding out you were playing another Chinese player in the first round of the main draw, because there are only four Chinese players? 
SHUAI PENG:   A little bit surprise, but it's not that surprise.   It's not that often on tour play the Chinese player, but happen sometimes.
And then maybe in the future will be more.   (Smiling.)
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese. 

Q.   What is your single expectation for Zhang Shuai? 
SHUAI PENG:   We are not familiar with each other, although we are work on the same team.   I think we have more chance to practice but actually to be friend. 
I don't have too much practice together with Zhang Shuai.   Although we're on one team, we don't have too much time in cooperating with each other.
I used to play together with Shuai Zhang, just have drills on the court, but in most cases we're practicing by ourselves. 

Q.   I want to ask you to make comments on your performance in that match. 
SHUAI PENG:   Undoubtedly, Zhang Shuai has a very good performance recently.   I personally believe that probably in this recent, I don't have a very good performance in the terms of the single. 
For me, now I'm just marching forward as what has been planned in the very beginning of this year.   Then I'm going to try to have some result in terms of training and then to prepare for the future matches.
That's all.   Thank you.

Q.   I have two parts of a question.   In this match, what would be the single largest progress that she has made?   Is it she's playing faster and stable than before?
SHUAI PENG:   Actually to be frank, it's hard for me to make a conclusion from Zhang Shuai's perspective.   I can only share you with my thoughts from my perspective.
I think, to be frank, I have a slow response on the court in terms of the rhythm, and also footwork and also even speed of play.
Generally speaking, my reaction is a little bit slow.   I think I have a lot of unforced errors today, and even during the match the coach came over to coach me.   He has already remind me of the unforced errors.   I know that.   I am fully aware of that. 
You know, actually, I'm not in good fitness recently.   For her, I think she's making faster progress recently and her matches are getting better and better.
For me, I think it's really hard for me to give very objective comments on her performance. 

Q.   You made a lot of progress recently as well.   Also you have a very good performance in Wimbledon.   If you can push to the WTA finals for women's doubles and Li Na is gonna push to the women's single, that be a very (indiscernible) for Chinese women's tennis. 
SHUAI PENG:   I think I used to play together with Li Na before, but this year probably since the second half of this year, you know, one of us got a title in a Grand Slam, so we are very much happy. 
That's why we do made some changes in our plan.   We make a very important step forward, and our performance are relatively stable.   Hopefully we can have a better performance in a match, because this may be the last match we have to play before WTA final. 
And also, we have to separate from each other to have single. 
If everything goes smoothly, I think that would be very important milestone before the final, WTA final. 

Q.   Are you going to try to improve the physical conditions or you have some technical problems to address and you're making progress towards this end? 
SHUAI PENG:   I think during our practice we don't have any so‑called real problems to be addressed. 
We have to score the first goal and then move on to the second one.   We have to achieve those goals one after another or one by win.
The clear‑cut goal we have now is we are supposed to have a better performance in the WTA finals.   The other plan is that at the end of the year, during the winter training or practice, to set new goal for next season. 

Q.   Can you tell us about your injuries recently?   I was told that you have to go to Germany to have some injections.   Is there any substantial progress made to your injury? 
SHUAI PENG:   I think I have to take regular injection in German according to the given plan.   That's what I can share with you. 

Q.   Is it an unexpected injury?
SHUAI PENG:   So far I don't have any unexpected injury, and I better not.

Q.   Did you feel that the new generation which is represented by Zhang Shuai has given you a lot of pressure?   Do you feel this pressure?   What are those pressure?
SHUAI PENG:   What kind of pressure? 

Q.   Comprehensive pressure imposed by the new generation. 
SHUAI PENG:   You mean we're going to try to make a divide in terms of age difference?   How are you going to try to divide between different ages?   Li Na is four years older than I. 
I don't quite understand your question.   What do you want to ask? 
THE MODERATOR:   Next question.

Q.   You know she is not that young as well, two or three years younger than you.   For Asian female players, is there any trend that only if they become a little bit older they would distinguish or stand out a little bit?
SHUAI PENG:   I personally believe that it is because we don't have a very large players' base.   If you take a look at a large group of the players in Russian and America, they're going to get together and have a match.   So they don't have any problems to be addressed. 
Furthermore, in China, we are competitors.   We are not that close friends.   So we don't to have fight against each other fiercely on a daily basis.   Today is just a very simple match.   She has a very good performance.
What I can say is just congratulations on her performance today.   It's really hard for me to make a judgment on the so‑called new generation's performance. 
In the future, when we're retired‑‑ for the new generation who are supposed to get mature, they have their problems as well.
Other players who was 30 years already.   I think that's not something rare for the Asian female players.   Some people mention that we have some female players in US Open whose age was 30 almost already. 
So I think age is just one aspect.   If you're a professional player, you can't only play the match for one or two years.   Sometimes you can extend your professional lifespan to even ten years more.   But you have to look after your physical conditions.
Definitely during those professional matches you have ups and downs.   I think what we are going to do to get it together with Chinese players to fight against each other.   That's it.

Q.   You have a good performance in the women's double for the season.   What is your consideration of the relations between single and the double?   How are you going to try to develop which might be complementary to each other? 
SHUAI PENG:   Actually, dating back to 2011, I play a lot of singles and I had a very good performance at that time.   But I don't have any (indiscernible) in terms of singles and doubles.   I practice both singles and doubles. 
By the end of 2012 to the very beginning of this year, I don't have‑‑ I don't feel comfortable in my shoulder.   Then that's why I, you know, partner with my partner to play double first, to recover my injury gradually.
I think this is the only season that I have already partner with my partners to complete all the season.   This is a really challenge for us.   You can identify it as sort of a success as well. 
I had a very good performance in terms of women's double recently, and that's why I want to seize the opportunity we have.   We used to cooperate with each other before, but actually the performance is not that good.
Since I have very good physical conditions in recent terms, that's why I want an opportunity to have a better performance in the future. 
Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT