CHINA OPEN
October 2, 2012
Shuai Peng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese, please.   
   
 Q.   I want to ask you, actually the game last night was very much late.   What time did you go to sleep?   Did you recover from last night?   It seems that you're a little bit exhausted.   
SHUAI PENG:   Yes, actually I left in the morning and I come back in the afternoon.   When I leave last night, it was almost 2:00, and when I go to bed it's around 3:00 to 4:00 in the morning.  
So this morning I get up at 12:00.   So in this morning I feel very much, you know, hesitating whether to get up or not.  
   
 Q.   I noticed in today's match you have some belt over your right shoulder.   People do have potential worry about your injury over the right shoulder.   Today you have a very nice relationship with Hantuchova, so are you confident in this partner?  
SHUAI PENG:   For the actually mental aspect, I think everything would be fine, but for the shoulder actually I got ice from doctor.   When I played the first round, it seems that I have, you know, some ache in my muscle.   It's not easy for me to give full power to my play.   That's why I don't have a very good performance in terms of the service.   Last night that's why I go through some treatment through ice.   Also, the trainer told me it could be better for me to cover the right shoulder with ice belt.   
For my relationship with Hantuchova, actually this is the second time to partner with each other.   I don't have too much thought in this regard.   What I'm going to think is try my best to have my best performance as much as possible.  
   
 Q.   People are very much concerned about your next match versus Li Na.   What's your expectation for this match?   If Li Na is going to win next match, then Li Na is going to participate, qualify to participate in WTA final.   Are you going to try to lose her intentionally?  
SHUAI PENG:   I'm not sure whether Li Na will participate in WTA final, but in terms of the ranking that Li Na has so far, I think absolutely she has some advantage over me and is very much relaxed for her to win the matches so far.   
Actually, I don't have too much thought in this regard.   What I'm going to think is to be ready for next‑round doubles.   Then after the next‑round doubles, I will try to concentrate on singles.  
   
 Q.   I still remember that Li Na promised to invite you for meal or you invite her for meal.   I'm not sure.   You have already keep your promise who's going to invite who?   
SHUAI PENG:   Yes, Li Na is too busy.   Actually, although we have the problems, unfortunately we don't have time to keep the promise.  
   
 Q.   Last year you beat Li Na.   Did you still remember the whole procedure?   Are you nervous to have a battle with her?  
SHUAI PENG:   The answer is actually our score is very much close in that three sets.   We both have very good performance, but actually this is China Open which is very much different from the last match.   
We have two Chinese players which are destined or which have to, you know, play against each other, so that's why people will stay focused on this, on this match between us.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us a little bit about your relationship with Li Na?  
SHUAI PENG:   So what relationship?   
   
 Q.   Are you guys friends?   
SHUAI PENG:   Like what's mean like?   You mean say hi or talk or have to talk everything?   
   
 Q.   You tell me.   
SHUAI PENG:   What do you want to know?   I mean, some detail?   
   
 Q.   After Toronto last year when you guys were supposed to play, she kind of said that she doesn't like playing against other Chinese players because you guys know each other's games really well.   Do you feel the same way?  
SHUAI PENG:   Well, yeah, in Montreal I think I supposed to play her at the time, but I could not play because my hip was injured.   
I think last year like we didn't play ‑‑ we play in Indian Wells but Montreal we didn't play, so yeah.   
I don't know.   Like, I mean, it just like opponent doesn't matter who they are, you just have to play whether from same country.   Doesn't matter is friend or not friend, like when you have to play them face to face, same like Wimbledon, I have to play my friend Su‑Wei, but what I can do?   I have to play with country, yeah.   
   
 Q.   What do you think it says about the state of tennis in China that two Chinese players have made it this far in such a big tournament and that obviously one of you will go on even further?  
SHUAI PENG:   I think for like first round Shuai Zhang played Wang Qiang, so Chinese against Chinese.   It's a good thing.   It's like next round for sure, have one Chinese will be in the next round.   It's tough but it's not bad.   (Laughter.)  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT