CHINA OPEN
September 30, 2012
Shuai Peng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. PENG/Y. Wickmayer
  7‑5, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese, please. 

Q.   For your opponent today, you didn't beat her for three times before, so what might have been the reasons for you to defeat her today?   For the second set, in the very beginning, you took a big lead, and unfortunately she tried to catch up but finally you made it and then win the game.   What might have been the reason? 
SHUAI PENG:   Actually, last year I remember that I played with her.   In the first set I win, but the second I lose.   So I think eventually in the third set I lose.   I have the chances to win. 
In the very beginning today, I have to be frank:   I feel a little bit nervous because I didn't win her in the previous matches.   And also my coach give me a lot of encouragement today before the play starts. 
After I win the first set I have confidence.   I have more confidence.   I am more excited than ever before, and the second set when I take the lead by 4 to 1, I really want to win.
So when I attack, probably it's happening the rush.   That's why I have a lot of mistakes or errors.   It's the same case for her.   She's really fierce in fighting against me. 
But I think I have a better skills in terms of handle of the very important balls.   Thank you.   That's why I win. 

Q.   I have two questions.   After the match I know that you drew a heart when you give signature.   I don't know what that's for.   The second:   We notice two statistics today.   The first you have eight break point chances, but just only master four.   And then the opponent have nine break point chances but she masters four.   So that's a very important indication that you have a very stable performance and you have a very good performance in handling the critical ball. 
SHUAI PENG:   Actually, for the statistic you shared with me, I don't have any idea, because for me I care more about the result, which is 7‑5, 7‑5. 
In today's match, I think when the score is 5‑5, I really want this opportunity.   And then we have a lot of fans in the court.   They try to cheer me on, which boost my confidence and spirit.   I have more anxiety to be successful. 
I think I'm so happy to win the match today because actually Yanina is tall, so when she served, it is very much threatening.   When I receive the service, I do have some difficulty, as well. 

Q.   You have already participated into China Open and Guang‑Zhou Open.   I know that you are going to go to Europe to participate in the ITF.   I want to double‑check whether it is the real schedule you are going to have.   Another part of my question is some players are very much influenced by injuries.   So I really want to understand, how is your fitness right now?   This is the thing that we care most from the perspective of fans. 
SHUAI PENG:   So we have to register all of the tournament six weeks before, so that is to say about long time ago tournament has already been decided in Europe.   So after I finish that tournament, I have to go back to Germany to take some injection. 
For Su‑Zhou tournament, actually I got invitation from the organizer committee.   That's why I participating to that tournament.
For my physical fitness, actually after Olympic Games, I'm not in good fitness all the time.   You know, actually, to play as both my work it's also a match.   Once I register for this tournament, I will try my best to have a better performance. 

Q.   We know that in last season you have a very good performance.   In this season, you were injured and also change the racquet.   Do you think this year it's a special year for you?   You have a lot of test from God?   How do you say that?
SHUAI PENG:   Yes.   By end of last year I think I have a very good performance, but for rather long time especially, three months badly influenced by the racquet. 
Now I have already changed the racquet.   At that time my knee has some injuries.   At that time coincidentally I, you know, break my finger in Rome.
But actually for the matches we played in Olympic Game in London, I think we have good performance.   After that, I also have another injury.   So you can tell easily that I am very much influenced by injury one after another.
But compared with my performance in 2011, I think that's very much related to the matches I have already had in 2012.   I took a lot of matches in the year of 2011.   That's why I have a lot of injuries.
You know, the physical fitness of each and every single player is different.   I'm not muscular in terms of the physical fitness.   I didn't play so many matches before, so I'm not physically as strong as those players. 
So the question for me now is how to keep strong physical fitness because it will not last for a month only.   I have to play continuously for two or three years in very fierce state.   I think that might be a requirement for my physical fitness as well.   I have to build it up.
For the other, you know, matches such as French Open and Wimbledon Championships, I think that will be very good opportunity.   What I'm going to do is to recover as much as possible and to play every single match with good performance.

Q.   Just now you mentioned that it's more important to focus on the physical fitness.   Did you ever try to discuss with Allen that for example in terms of the recovery and the physical fitness training, you will inject more energy to make yourself stronger than ever before?
SHUAI PENG:   I think after the London Olympic Games I'm always in the process of recovering in terms of the physical fitness.   After I play this match, that is China Open, I still have three tournaments to go.
Hopefully I will try my best to have a very good performance in those three tournaments after which I would have very good rest.   Then I will have a better preparation to build up my physical fitness. 
Even for myself sometimes after I play some matches, I can feel that my physical energy is not that powerful as what I did before, especially when I participate in Guang‑Zhou Open.   When I play against my opponent, I can feel strongly that my physical condition is getting worse than ever before.
So what I'm going to do is not only build up my physical energy but most importantly I need to take more nutritious, you know, elements to make myself stronger than ever before.

Q.   Come back to this match.   In the first or second set, at every match point or set point, in the first set it's easy to guard the set point, but in the second set it's not easy for you to keep the, you know, set point.   But anyway, you win.   Do you have any specific plan to celebrate?
SHUAI PENG:   Actually, I saw from the screen today that a lot of friends leave some messages to me.   I forgot that today is Mid‑Autumn Festival.   All of a sudden when I saw some messages from those fans, I realize this is Mid‑Autumn Festival. 
Yes, in the score, the first set, the score is very much close to each other.   When I break her serving game, I started to seize more opportunities more proactively to win. 
And then in her, you know, set point she give me dropshot.   Then I also return with a dropshot.
In my ideas, I always thinking how to go the right opportunity to win.   I still remember that in the second set when the score is 4‑2 or 4‑3, when I receive the second service, I really want to play a direct ball.   But it is out of boundary.   So eventually I win the game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT