BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 17, 2011
Shuai Peng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. SHARAPOVA/S. Peng
  6-2, 5-7, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You have had a good year so far. This tournament now. Are you pleased? Is it part of how your season has been going so far, winning a lot of matches?  
 SHUAI PENG: Yeah. Um, when I start this year, I think at least I'm healthy. I didn't get sick and injury. Was really happy to into the quarterfinal here, but I think today I play Maria is a tough match. Third set I have chance, but she play well, yeah.   
  
  Q. What you think was the turning point in that match? When did she sort of take over from you?  
 SHUAI PENG: Well, I think is for this tournament is my first time this year I play the center court where I was on today first, because little bit of different. So first set when she served, I could not saw the ball, and it's a little bit hard for me to return it when she serve.  
 And in the first set I just, you know, like tell myself -- I just try to like to want to try to (indiscernible) into the match. Since lost first set and down in the second set, I just tell myself like, Don't give up. Just try my best.  
 Then when I come back win the second set, and the third set I think is 3-2 and 40-15, and I was a little bit like tight or nervous, you know. I have one -- like 40-30, I hit to the ball, you know, I was a little bit tight.   
 And after, she play well, you know, in the third set at the end of like couple baseline, and then she hit the winner, and then...   
 Yeah, and I think is good match. I just have to keep going, and then more -- like I have lot of things have to improvement, and just try to more practice and keep going, yeah.  
  
  Q. Why couldn't you see her serve? I didn't understand.   
 SHUAI PENG: No, because when toss it, in the outside, you looked -- in the center court is all the fans, the people sitting around there, you know. The color is all like really mixes. First game on that, you know, I didn't saw the ball. (Smiling.)  
  
  Q. In the third set, in the sixth game when she held serve to make it 3-3 and then she started to play better after that, what happened?  
 SHUAI PENG: Yeah, I get a chance like 3-2, 40-15 on my serve, 40-30. And then (indiscernible) like a different, when you like take it. The match sometime like this. I don't know. Like sometime you tight, and then you didn't like finish the shot; sometime like you lose, but you didn't see and finish the shot and come back winner.   
 I think tennis like this, and I have to learn more from this, yeah.   
  
  Q. But that's the point you remember, 3-2 and 40-15? That's what you keep going back to, isn't it?  
 SHUAI PENG: Well, I didn't keep going. Remember that. But, you know, when you're like down 3-4 and after she serve, 3-5 of course, it's different. If I up 4-2 I think of course it's different, yeah.  
  
  Q. She had 13 double faults. Did you sense her getting frustrated? Did you also feel like that was an opportunity for you to take advantage of?  
 SHUAI PENG: How many double faults I have?   
  
  Q. I think you had four.   
 SHUAI PENG: Four, okay. Sorry. I don't know. Yeah, because sometime I think she serve the second serve. I think she try to go the second serve. And like after, like in the middle the set have windy. And then like sometime even my serve I feel not really comfortable. And then, yeah.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT