QATAR LADIES OPEN
February 23, 2011
Shuai Peng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. PENG/F. Schiavone
  7-5, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Is that one of the best wins of your career, do you think?
 SHUAI PENG: No.

 Q. Fair enough. You're honest. 
 SHUAI PENG: No. You mean by ranking or... 

 Q. Just satisfaction, happiness. 
 SHUAI PENG: Well, I feel it's not. Sorry for that.

 Q. What is your best victory in your career?
 SHUAI PENG: Well, I'm really happy to win today, but best win maybe was in San Diego when I played Kim Clijsters, because the time I think she was played hard court, she win like 30 or 33-or-something match in a row, you know. I was just win the time. 
 I was just like really -- I think that would be what my remember like maybe biggest or happiest.

 Q. Can you explain why you were in qualify, you were injured and now you are in good shape? Can you explain exactly what happened these months?
 SHUAI PENG: Well, last year after Australian Open I get appendix, so then I have to go to the hospital, get a surgery. I have no choice. 
 Then this took me a little bit time, and anyway, I come back and I play a lot. I think my body, because this I could not handle it, because the surgery I was like 10 days, I try to come back, play. And this hurt me and I was get injury. 
 I have long time like French Open, Wimbledon, last year at all I didn't play. And then I come back. I was in the US Open from the long time. And then I hurt my arm, get turned in the muscle in doubles. So I don't want that, maybe like just sometime -- yeah, this I could not control, and I just, I was really happy this year. I come back. At least now I'm okay.
 Yeah, I was like go back before my coach, Alan, I was really happy, and then thanks for that, because last year I also have like my coach, you know, the coach left. So the time is really difficult for me. And then the time I also like would come back with me before the coach, Alan. 
 He still really busy. He could not come with me this tournament. But still have coach come with me, because his team was working with Alan together. I think this really like help me for that, yeah. 

 Q. Do you think you have the same level as when you were in Australia last year now? Do you have the same level of tennis today compared with the Australian Open last year?
 SHUAI PENG: Well, I think I feel better, much better than last year than the Australian Open, because at that time, you know, I feel my body just not comfortable, but I didn't know why when I was going to hospital, checked it. 
 You know, like is painful, but I sense my stomach, I didn't know, you know. So I think now I feel like my game maybe better than last year, than Australian Open that time, yeah. 

 Q. Francesca was saying, you know, today she just wasn't feeling right. Sometimes you come to a tennis tournament, and maybe your mind is not there, or you're physically exhausted or you're emotionally exhausted. Do you understand what she means? Sometimes as tennis players, you play so many tournaments, you're traveling all over the world. Do you understand what she's sort of going through?
 SHUAI PENG: Yeah. I think today I'm play good, and then because for her is here the first match and I was play already maybe like four match, right? Yeah, four match. I think for sure maybe about like the court. 
 It's my first time play the center court, so, yeah, but I think compete with her maybe first match I was more maybe into the match, and then I think today I was play good, yeah. 

 Q. This is your first win in the main round here. Last time you lost after winning the first set in 2008. But it's a brilliant start for you in the main round? Good start in the main draw? Good match win in the main draw? I mean, because last time you had lost in the first round after winning the first set. But this year, this time getting... 
 SHUAI PENG: You mean in Doha? 

 Q. Yeah, getting the first win in the main round with victory. Brilliant start? What do you think? After you won -- you had lost the first round in 2008. 
 SHUAI PENG: In Doha? 

 Q. In Doha. So first victory in the main round. It's a brilliant start to the tournament in the main round for you. Better start to the tournament this year? Better than 2008? 
 SHUAI PENG: Yes, I think. Yes. 

 Q. How do you feel just to play Marion Bartoli tomorrow? 
 SHUAI PENG: I play her many times before, I think, and in the clay and the hard court. I think she's really good player. She like to hit the ball first. 
 Then we both played (indiscernible). I was excited play tomorrow and then I try my best, and then fight in the court. 

 Q. You've got 20, 24 hours now before that game. What do you do? What are you going to do? Do you sit in your room and watch DVDs? Do you go do painting like Marion? 
 SHUAI PENG: (Laughter.)
 No. I go for dinner, and then get some treatment, shower, rest in the room. 
 Yeah, maybe watch some DVD or like talk to online with my friend, parents, a little bit, and then sleep. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT