AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2011
Shuai Peng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. PENG/A. Morita
  6-1, 3-6, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Through to the fourth round of a Grand Slam for the first time. How do you feel? 
 SHUAI PENG: Really happy (laughter). Yeah, just really happy. And I was tired. 

 Q. Why did you win today's match? What was the difference between the two of you? 
 SHUAI PENG: Well, I played her I think before couple times. I think we know each other, you know, like what is she strategy and how was I play. 
 And today we start. I think first set I was play pretty well. The second set, I think the time I little bit rush myself. When she serve, I was return, just like have many straight mistake. Also in the second set, she start play like more and more better. 
 And then she's like good player. In the third set, you know, I just like try to like fight, try to both hold serve game. I was down and I just fight and try to hold my serve game. And after I find the chance to break her, but I didn't. 
 Today's too hot. My leg start cramping. But thanks God, I got it. 

 Q. How difficult was that final game when you were serving and cramping after every point? 
 SHUAI PENG: Well, I think at the time I didn't think that much. I was just really like try to fighting. I want to win this match. I think after first set, you know, I saw I get the chance, I want to win. The time in my thinking is a little bit different. I want to win. So at the time I change my game little bit. I was like little bit rush myself. 
 So in the time, the third set, I just tell myself, don't think about the cramping. I was just tell myself have the chance to hit the ball, make her move first. 

 Q. The seventh game of the final game you saved breakpoints seven times. How do you look back at that point?
 SHUAI PENG: I know she was up 40-Love, but I didn't know how much the breakpoint I saved. You know, I just try to fight because to the last point I still have chance. I think in the second set, 3-All, I also up 30-Love. She also have the chance to save the game. And I just tell myself like to fight. I know she's like tough player to play because she also fight to every point. I just tell myself like, Don't give up, yeah. 

 Q. Your next-round opponent will be a Polish opponent Agnieszka Radwanska. Last time you played her you won. How do you rate her?
 SHUAI PENG: I think she's really talented player. Like she running fast. She's like really smart. 
 I think I just try to fight and play my tennis, yes, uh-huh. 

 Q. What impact has Li Na's success had on you? Has it inspired you? Do you look at her and think, I can do that as well? 
 SHUAI PENG: No, I think, you know, like when a couple years ago when I was like 18, 19 I really have a good year. I also beat a lot of top-10 player. But after I have tough decision. I almost stop play my tennis. In the time, it's like too tough for me to focus in my tennis. And now just really happy to have like same coach, behind me have a lot of people supporting me. I feel now it's really safe the team for me. 
 And then I just try to look like, you know, to forward. And also I believe before I can do it. Now I believe my coach he believe more than like myself, you know. I was believe in myself. 
 Just I think it's not only her, you know. In China like now, tennis, a lot of people watch it. It improve a lot. I'm happy I was be in the team. I just try to like working hard, keep going, yeah. 

 Q. You played Morita a couple times before. Today did you see any difference in her game? Today she played more aggressive and mixed up some different kind of shots. 
 SHUAI PENG: I think, you know, the really important thing, this is Grand Slam. Before the match, I just tell myself, Don't think this is Grand Slam, because I really want to win. I just tell myself, Think this is like 25,000 tournament. 
 It's really like, you know, yes, of course I think both player want to win. Think this is really important because we play like couple times. We know like how we both play like. For sure she like have, I don't know, change of strategy before she change her serve. And I think I also change like my something, strategy, how to play better, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT