XXIX OLYMPIC GAMES
August 12, 2008
Shuai Peng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  A. CORNET/S. Peng  
6-2, 6-2  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Can you summarize your performance today. It seems that you played better in the later parts than the other parts.   
 SHUAI PENG: (Through translation.) Overall I don't think I played well today. Actually the first two or three games, my opponent was quite strong and I made a lot of faults. In particular, it's the first time for me to play on the center court, which seemed to be faster than the other courts. So there were a lot of chances that a ball was out of the line, so that means I cannot find the sense of how well I'm playing.   
 I tried to put myself in the state, but generally speaking it's not very good.   
  
  Q. This evening you're going to play doubles. Before playing the singles in the day session, have you made any preparations for your doubles in the evening? Is there any difference in the focus between the singles and the doubles?   
 SHUAI PENG: (Through translation.) Since at 11:00 last night, we have only got the order of play for today. We know at that time that today we should play the singles first and doubles in the evening. So we just sleep after getting notification of that.   
 Since we guess that it will be quite late for us to play the doubles, we decided this afternoon I will go along with Tian Tian to rest first, then we'll start to do some preparations.   
  
  Q. Just now you mentioned you are not in a very good state. Is it possible for your mood to affect the evening's doubles?   
 SHUAI PENG: (Through translation.) I think today's performance in the singles is not very good. I hope that I can play well in the doubles in the evening. Of course, there are some differences between the singles and doubles in terms of the skills and also the techniques.   
 So it's really hard to say what will be my performance in the evening, but I will try my best.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT