XXIX OLYMPIC GAMES
August 11, 2008
Shuai Peng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  S. PENG/C. Suarez Navarro
7-5, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. This is the first game of your Olympic Games. You played against your opponent, which you played at the Fed Cup where you lost. Now that you won, how do you feel? Can you describe the game to us. 
 SHUAI PENG: (Through translation.) Well, actually, in the Fed Cup I didn't know my opponent back then, so I lost the game. But today this is the Olympics and I did a lot of the preparation. Yesterday, it rained a lot. I was leading in the beginning. But after the rain, I lagged behind at 4-5. This is the Olympic Games, so it was very different. I was very excited, but at the same time, I feel pressure and nervous. So I lost quite a bit of the games. 
 But after the rain, I talked with my coach. My coach told me not to think about too much, just perform your normal level. So that way we ended up not playing. We stopped because of the rain, and I was still nervous. 
 I was joking with my friend, saying that it was like I have eaten something, and half of it is outside and half of it is in my mouth and I can't bite any more. 
 So today I was still very nervous. I was leading 5-3. I thought there were some chances for me to win. But at that time I couldn't control the game, so I lost three games. Then afterwards, I stabilized and I won. 
 She's also very good. She jumped very high. Sometimes it's very difficult to hit her balls. But I was very patient and I won in the end. 

 Q. We saw a lot of the fluctuations in your performance and mentality before. Today you seemed to be able to adjust your mind. Did your coach give you any tips to stabilize you? 
 SHUAI PENG: (Through translation.) Actually this match lasted a long time and both of us had some fluctuations in our minds. But, then again, this is my hometown and we have fans here to support me. A lot of the spectators cheered for me. So although I was nervous, it was awesome to hear their cheers. I kept telling myself that I am prepared, I'm ready to fight. 

 Q. You mentioned it's like you were eating something, but you couldn't finish the bite. Today you actually lost three games. What were you thinking at that time? 
 SHUAI PENG: (Through translation.) At the stage of 5-3, I was actually thinking to win because at that time I was very excited. I wanted to win. I couldn't really control the court. 
 But then there were some changes going through my mind. I'm telling myself I have to be patient. Since I won the first set, so no matter if I lose or I win, I can continue to play. So I told myself not to think too much, just play and fight. 

 Q. This year during the Olympic Games, our focus is on the doubles. We have won the gold medal before. But you won the first game in the women's singles competition. How do you feel about that? Can you talk about your partnership with Tian Tian in the doubles game. 
 SHUAI PENG: (Through translation.) I actually didn't think too much. Yesterday, we stopped at 7-5, 2-0. Someone actually told me I had to win because the other two girls lost. 
 So after a long night of thinking, I wasn't actually nervous last night. But today I became very nervous. I'm very happy to be able to win. I will also cheer for Li Na and Jie Zheng because they haven't played yet. 
 About the cooperation with Tian Tian. This is our first Olympic Games. We are going to work hard to play well together. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT