DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 16, 2015
Shuai Peng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. PENG/E. Vesnina
  7‑5, 6‑1  
 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   So fantastic last year.   Then last week was not exactly what you would have expected in Bangkok?   What are your feelings like?
SHUAI PENG:   I think it was fine because after Australian Open and then because my back, I could not, like, right away, you know, practice and I rest for about seven days and start slowly from the Fed Cup and we get in Pattaya. 
Then it's like tough match there, and it's lefty, you know, a little bit windy.   I think the first set and also the third set I had like some good points, I didn't make it, and it just like not win match.

Q.   The Australian Open fourth round was Maria Sharapova.   Is there anything that you learned from that match?
SHUAI PENG:   I think she's one of top player on tour.   Everybody play her, you know, like they maybe even give more than 100%.   She's really like tough. 
I was try in there, and it is not really work that day.   And I just tried like keep going and then working forward, yeah.

Q.   Now that Li Na is, you know, phasing out and you are among those who are supposed to take over, do you feel that you're doing justice to this role that you have to play?
SHUAI PENG:   Well, from last year in around like US Open, the time when she say to the media like, you know, like slowly everybody like talk and try to find out when she say she retire, it was like really big news from like tennis on tour and in China.   She's the really good player, she win like two Grand Slam and then like the fans, make the tennis in China like more popular.
And then it just, how do you say, nothing like‑‑ well, like... 

Q.   You think you can do better?   You think you can do better than Li Na?
SHUAI PENG:   Well, I think everybody have like a different body, different game.   It cannot‑‑ everybody can't doing better than Serena (smiling).

Q.   Li Na. 
SHUAI PENG:   I know.   You mean like if one day Venus retire, Serena retired, and everybody say, Okay, do I can do better than Serena?   (Laughter.)







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT