CHARLES SCHWAB CUP CHAMPIONSHIP
October 31, 2008
Tom Jenkins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Tom, shaved eight shots off your 72 yesterday. 64 today. As I mentioned, one shy of the tournament record.   
 TOM JENKINS: I think being 60, I should have at least two shots, so that would be like 61, wouldn't it, 62 (laughter).   
 THE MODERATOR: Good day for you.   
 TOM JENKINS: Thank you.   
 THE MODERATOR: Maybe kind of give us a quick recap, then we'll get your birdies and take some questions.   
 TOM JENKINS: Okay. Well, you know, I played the first round yesterday, and I probably played just as well yesterday as I did today. I didn't make any putts yesterday at all. My speed was a little off.   
 You know, coming from playing Bermuda the last two weeks, then coming here, you know, I only played one practice round in the ProAm. Certainly you don't get much practice in the ProAm round. So I felt like my speed was a little off yesterday.   
 Today it was right on. I felt very comfortable with the speeds. It's one of those rounds where you just kind of see the lines, and if the speed is good, you're going to make a lot of putts.   
 Got off to a good start. Hit a pretty good drive on 1. I kind of kicked left in the left rough. I only had about 115 to the hole. I drew a pretty good lie, which was a great. It certainly helps start the rounds when you have good lies in the rough as opposed to crappy lies on the first couple of holes. I hit a great wedge about, I don't know, maybe three feet. Made that for birdie.   
 I missed about a 12-footer for birdie at 2. Then routine pars at 3. Had a great 2-putt at 4. 4 was playing rather long, playing about 220 uphill into the wind. I kind of came off a 5-wood, hit it low, hit it in front of green and stopped. I had about a 60-, 70-footer up the hill, lagged it up about six inches. At that point I felt like the touch was there. Next hole played very long. Hit driver, 5-iron on the front right. Had about a 60-footer. Hit a great putt up about six inches from the hole. At that point I kind of had a feeling a good round was coming.   
 On 6 I hit driver, 8-iron about 18 feet, pin-high. Made that for birdie. 2-putt, routine par at 7. Routine par at 8. 9, I hit 3-iron hybrid off the tee. Now the golf course all of a sudden started playing rather long. I was surprised how short the 3-iron went off the tee at 9. I think Bernhard hit a really hard 7-iron. I only had about 152 to the pin and I'm hitting 6-iron. I hit that about 10 feet. Made that for birdie.   
 Then the rain started coming. The next three holes played really tough. I hit a good drive at 10. Pulled a 5-iron left of the green on 10. It embedded in the rough. I got a drop. The drop ended up almost going back into the hole. Terrible lie. Hit a great flop out of that stuff about six feet and made that for par.   
 Hit a great 8-iron at 11 about, oh, a foot and a half. Made that for birdie. 12, again I had to hit driver, 4-iron hybrid about 20 feet pin-high and made that for birdie. 13, driver, 3-wood, L-wedge about 15 feet. Missed that. Then hit a great 3-iron hybrid at 14 about a foot. Made that.   
 15, driver, 5-iron. 2-putt from 20 feet. Driver, 3-wood, hit a great little flopshot from the right rough at 16 about two and a half feet, made that for birdie. 8-iron at 17, about 25 feet, 2-putt. And then hit a drive and 5-iron, I guess that was a 25-foot birdie at 18.   
 It was a pretty solid round. Very happy to get in with it.   
 THE MODERATOR: Just a note on your round. You had 25 putts today, nine fewer than yesterday.   
 TOM JENKINS: That kind of makes the difference (laughter).   
 THE MODERATOR: Yesterday you had three 1-putts. Today you had 11. The putt on 18 was about five feet plus, so it was 30 feet, 8 inches.   
 TOM JENKINS: Just one of those rounds where everything kind of felt pretty good. The driver was a little off early in the round. Then starting on about 10, hit the driver pretty well. You know, any time you can lift clean and place, you're going to have good lies in the fairways. Makes it a little bit easier.   
 Greens are soft. You don't have to worry about the ball skidding through the greens. Most of the guys or all the guys are pretty good when you give them a number. The ball's going to be just like a dart. It's pretty easy to get it close.   
 The only thing you have to guard against is the spin. Sometimes on the short iron shots, a hole like 11, you know, you can spin it right off the green if you're not careful.   
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. You and Scott are tied at the moment.   
 TOM JENKINS: I think Gene Jones is still out there.   
  
  Q. Yeah, a bunch of people at 6 and 7. You don't know what the weather tomorrow is going to be.   
 TOM JENKINS: Didn't look good. But, you know, we'll see. It's a pain to have to play in that kind of stuff. It's not my favorite kind of conditions. You know, hopefully maybe it will be a little bit later coming in and we can get it in in the morning. Hopefully that's the case.   
  
  Q. Is it like a clock ticking in the background with a bigger storm coming in? Is it easier to focus on today and not worry about that?   
 TOM JENKINS: I don't think it makes any difference. You know you have to play. You're trying to just go out and play one shot at a time. You don't really project, you know, what's going to happen tomorrow and stuff. You got enough to worry about out there during the round today.   
 I think that's most everybody's attitude.   
  
  Q. It's not terribly cold here, but do you have a problem with like wet gloves?   
 TOM JENKINS: Listen, I'm from Texas. It's cold here (laughter).   
 No, the cold, it's not that cold. You're right. It's not like it's 40 degrees. The worst thing that can happen is the rain. When the grips get wet, your gloves get wet, you have the rain jackets on. At this age, especially my age, you know, being 60, the more stuff I've got on, the shorter my backswing gets. Believe me, I don't like that. I like to have as little stuff up top as I can manage.   
 But the worst thing is the rain. You know, you carry a bunch of gloves, keep them in baggies. You start going through those right and left. It becomes kind of a problem.   
 But, you know, hopefully it won't be that nasty tomorrow and we'll get it in.   
  
  Q. Have you ever tried those cotton rain gloves?   
 TOM JENKINS: You know, I haven't, no. Have you got a set?   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT