TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: OHIO STATE v MIAMI
January 1, 2003
Brett Romberg
Jonathan Vilma
Matt Walters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Brett, it seems you're taking advantage of every opportunity here just to experience everything like out in the hall?

BRETT ROMBERG:  I don't know if you all saw this girl out there.  She is special.  This is a once in a life time opportunity.  It's twice for us but in all reality, it's a once in a life time opportunity.  You've got to take advantage of the moment, man.  Today's going to be a little bit of a different story than a couple of days ago.  We're all getting a little more focused and tuning into what we're going to do.

Q.  Are you worried about repercussions with your girlfriend?

BRETT ROMBERG:  I'm already in the dog house.  The fact I didn't take her out for New Year's Eve, I'm already in the dog house.  I'll have to spend the off -season getting out of it.

Q.  You dropped Dorsey quick out there?

BRETT ROMBERG:  Dorsey could sleep on the front lawn if I had that as a roommate.

Q.  Ken Anderson, he said if he pinches my butt, I'll pinch his?

BRETT ROMBERG:  Good, that's awesome.  Everyone is trying to do the same thing.  You want to see somebody be successful.  We're going to be battling back and forth.  You don't want to see anybody get hurt out there.  I think Anderson is a hell of a football player.  I'm sure you'll see us grabbing each other's asses on TV.  It's bound to happen.  I'm glad to hear he's got the same mindframe.

Q.  What's your New Year's resolution and what did each you of you doing last night?

JONATHAN VILMA:  I didn't do anything.  My resolution is just to win.

BRETT ROMBERG:  Mine is not to wear my national championship ring until I get another one.  Last night I played a little pool and watched some TV and that's it.

Q.  Matt, how do you contain a guy like Clarett?

MATT WALTERS:  You make him run east, west; not north south, and don't give him any opportunity to run downhill.  Hope you can run him down.

Q.  Do you guys have a little something to prove after getting off to a slow start as far as stopping the run?  I know you played better late in the year but is there something there to prove?

MATT WALTERS:  I don't know.  We've done what we have had to do so far to win all the games.  We felt like we've proved enough.  It comes down to this last game.  The best team is going to win.  We want to prove we're the best team.  As long as we have one more point than they do at the end of the game, I'll be satisfied.

Q.  John and Matt, seems like deja vu.  Is this getting repetitious for you guys?

JONATHAN VILMA:  It's all the same questions and you're going to get the same answers.

MATT WALTERS:  Same thing.

Q.  I mean, does it feel like you guys are just ready for the game to get here?

MATT WALTERS:  I'm definitely ready for the game to get here.  We have been practicing for a month.  Even the coaches gave us a couple days off in the middle of the practice because they could tell it's going to be a long haul.  I just want to get it over with and go on.

Q.  Brett, I'm from Cincinnati.  How do you guys think you would do against the Bengals?

BRETT ROMBERG:  I know it would be a close ballgame; which side wins it, who knows, but I don't know.  I really haven't thought of the Bengals, so  --.

Q.  Matt or John, do you guys have a favorite Romberg quote from the year that you've heard in the media?

JONATHAN VILMA:  Matt, you go first.

MATT WALTERS:  I'm trying to think.  I don't even remember them all.  Favorites, I don't know.

JONATHAN VILMA:  No, I don't have any.

BRETT ROMBERG:  They're all good. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT