THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2014
Gordon Rowan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Well, you just said, very emotional.   
GORDON ROWAN:   Very emotional.   What we all dream of as is caddie, isn't it?  
   
 Q.   Yeah, your first major win?  
GORDON ROWAN:   First win.  
   
 Q.   On a bag?  
GORDON ROWAN:   First win.  
   
 Q.   How long have you guys been working together?   
GORDON ROWAN:   Twice.   Both times at Evian.   Two years ago as an amateur and then this year.   We were going to work last year but there was I believe another tournament on in Korea so she didn't come.  
   
 Q.   How you did you get matched up?  
GORDON ROWAN:   I was a caddie on the LET.   My player at the time hadn't qualified, so I just offered my services.   She was a young amateur; they were looking for a caddie.   
I said, Yeah, sure.   We were kind of not local, but we live only a couple hours away.   They were quite happy to have somebody who was a professional caddie who spoke English, who spoke French.   Kind of helps.   
It just worked.   She didn't really speak English, but we managed to communicate.   Words with numbers with smiles.   This year she's come a long way with her English.  
   
 Q.   What was the biggest difference between 2012 and this year in her game you think just from what you can remember back then?  
GORDON ROWAN:   My goodness, very difficult to say.   I think she's gained in length.   It's difficult to compare from the course two years ago, which was very different.  
   
 Q.   Sure, yeah.   
GORDON ROWAN:   Even two years ago she was so strong mentally.   She stays very calm and lucid.   Even when you feel a little bit of frustration coming through, she keeps it under control and keeps focused.   
For me, that is the most wonderful thing to see in a golfer, that control.   That always gains you a couple strokes a round.  
   
 Q.   Is that what impresses you the most overall is her level‑headedness?  
GORDON ROWAN:   Just so good.   She's a lovely ball‑striker and keeps ‑‑ that swing holds up under pressure.   Because that drive on 18 is a scary drive.   You know you get to get it on the fairway and there is not a lot of room.   
One shot behind having led practically all week, to hold up that, you know, you need to have a good swing.  
   
 Q.   Did you give her any facial expressions or words on 18, or just let her go?  
GORDON ROWAN:   You smile.   It's okay.   No problem.   Everything is cool.   Great drive.   
And then we treat the shot like every other shot.   We didn't say, You need to go get a birdie; you need to go do this.   This is the distance we have.   That's where the ball needs to go; it's going to run up from the slope.   
She's goes, Okay.   We choose the club, and she goes.   It was a fantastic shot.  
   
 Q.   It was very good.   
GORDON ROWAN:   Fantastic shot.  
   
 Q.   How many feet was that into 18, do you think, the putt?  
GORDON ROWAN:   The putt?   It felt like about 40 feet.   (Laughter.)   I don't know.   Probably about three, four meters maybe.  
   
 Q.   We said 12.   Yeah, 12 feet.   
GORDON ROWAN:   Yeah, something like that.  
   
 Q.   But looked a lot longer.   
GORDON ROWAN:   And the hole seemed very small.  
   
 Q.   Even for you, not even making the putt?  
GORDON ROWAN:   Yeah.   (Laughter.)  
Q.Her emotions.   Right after you said she didn't know.   Do you think she didn't have any idea or was just shocked in the moment?  
GORDON ROWAN:   I don't think she was aware of the real situation of the scores.   I don't think she was really looking at the leaderboards.   I was trying to keep an eye on it.  
Yeah, I said, You've won.   She said, No, no, I haven't.   Yes, you have.   Really?   Which was quite sweet.   
   
 Q.   That's amazing.   And you're based in Scotland?   
GORDON ROWAN:   No.   Actually it gets complicated.   I am Scottish from Ayrshire.   Our family home is in France, in Lyon, so couple hours, two and a half hours from here.   
But we now live in China.   Told you it gets complicated.   
   
 Q.   Why China now?  
GORDON ROWAN:   Well, an actual fact:   I actually stopped caddying at the beginning of this year and took a real job.  
   
 Q.   And you got a phone call just for this one?  
GORDON ROWAN:   Yeah, they came back and said, You want to come back for this?   So I took my holidays from my work and came back out to do this.   
I'm a senior manager of (indiscernible).   I make ladies underwear.  
   
 Q.   For what company?  
GORDON ROWAN:   A company who makes for Victoria's Secret.  
   
 Q.   No way.   Fantastic.   That's awesome.   
GORDON ROWAN:   A company called Crystal Martin.   Yeah, somebody has do it.   I need to look after you girls.  
   
 Q.   Yeah.   What was the last event you caddied for before this?  
GORDON ROWAN:   Oh, my goodness, the last event was at the French Open?   The British Open?   
I think I did the British.   I did four last year:   Evian Championship, British, French Open and the Moroccan Open last year.   
   
 Q.   So the last one was Moroccan?  
GORDON ROWAN:   No.   It was probably Evian last year.  
   
 Q.   Last one was Evian Championship?  
GORDON ROWAN:   Amelia Lewis.  
   
 Q.   Okay.   
GORDON ROWAN:   Which was fantastic.   We missed the cut, but it was fantastic.   Wonderful person.  
   
 Q.   Yeah, she's great.   Good story.   
GORDON ROWAN:   It's been really a good week of work.  
   
 Q.   Go out on a good note?  
GORDON ROWAN:   Maybe come back next year.  
   
 Q.   Your opinion on the bogeys on the back nine.   Anything that stuck out in particular?  
GORDON ROWAN:   On 14 it was good club.   4‑iron, if I remember right.   Just kind of overdrew.   If that had fallen like, I don't know five meters to the right, it would've caught that perfect slope the way Karrie's did and fell down into the hole.  
So it was the right swing and the right club; just got a little bit too much draw.   Maybe the wind took it a little bit.   There wasn't much there up in that part of the course.   There was nothing wrong with that.  
I think on 16 we were between clubs; 16 when you're between clubs is a killer.   So you either have that risk of going with an 8‑iron and you need really get a good...  
   
 Q.   Yeah, get after it.   
GORDON ROWAN:   Because normal distance was just getting over the water.   Or with a 7, an easy 7.   (Indiscernible.)  
Q.Sure.   
GORDON ROWAN:   Then when you're up there, she kind of hits it and it stopped centimeters from running down into the water.  
   
 Q.   It was close.   
GORDON ROWAN:   Very close.   And, again, putt on 14 was a killer.   Just can't get it close.  
   
 Q.   How long was that?  
GORDON ROWAN:   I didn't piece it out.  
   
 Q.   Okay, that's fine.   
GORDON ROWAN:   I wasn't actually‑‑ I said we don't try and get it near hole because it's not going to happen.   You try and leave yourself a putt to get it.   And that was it.  
   
 Q.   All right.   Well, congratulations again.   Very exciting.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT