PACIFIC-12 CONFERENCE MENS' MEDIA DAY
October 23, 2014
Bobby Dibler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   I'd like to introduce our Coordinator of Men's Basketball Officiating, Bobby Dibler.   
BOBBY DIBLER:   Good morning.   It's good to be with everybody.   I'm coordinator of the men's basketball officials.   
This is a time for me to give you all a chance to hear anything about the rules relative to changes or anything that takes place.   I'd just like to say that when I'm finished, hopefully we'll have four or five minutes for any questions you may have.   If we don't, I'll be around all day, I'd be more than happy to answer any questions.   
I just wanted to do a quick review.   This is a non‑rule change year.   The NCAA Rules Committee makes changes every other year.   I just wanted to go through a couple of slides reviewing last year's changes with everybody.   
We had numerous changes a year ago, but I picked out the five that had the most impact on our game.   
We had the 10‑second backcourt change a year ago whereby the officials were not going to be coming backcourt.   We would use the shot clock.   We had a rule that used to be in effect it had to be the first offensive player to touch the ball started the shot clock.   Last year it was anybody that touched the ball, the shot clock started.   This was received with wide acceptance, really didn't have any issues.   
On breakaway plays, going to the basket, it's really a bang‑bang play when the ball hits the backboard or maybe doesn't hit the backboard, on what the defender can do.   Prior to this change a year ago, the ball had to be completely above the rim for anybody to be able to touch it.   Really difficult play for officials to officiate.   
The change was made to where if any part of the ball is above the rim from the standpoint of interpretation, it's considered to be on its downward flight.   
Again, still an extremely difficult call to officiate.   But it makes it easier for everybody to understand it and particularly for officials to make the call.   
Last year we had a rule that said if there was any contact with the elbow above the shoulders, it was automatically a Flagrant 1.   More than not, officials would go to the monitor to see if it should be upgraded to an F 2.   That was changed a year ago to where it doesn't have to be an F 1 to be an F 2.   
If we had a whistle on the play, we could have a comment or walk away with a no‑call.   Sometimes based on the position of the official, it looked like he caught one, and quite frankly it was one of those we referred to as 'fool the ref.'   That was a change a year ago.   
Many times we don't no if the foot was on the line or not on the line because of our positioning.   There was a change a year ago where if we wanted to mark that play, we would give a signal that told him to remark that play.   At the next media timeout we would review it.   Accepted with no issues.   Another thing that the Rules Committee is trying to do to shorten the time to play the basketball game and also not disrupt it as we're playing it.   
Monitor review, particularly on fouls, when we go to the monitor on a foul, more times than not we're going over to see if anything that happened is elevated to a Flagrant 2.   Understand there are four things we can do when you go to the monitor if we've had a foul called on the play.   It could be an F 2, an F 1, a common foul or a no‑call.   
There are times also when we go to the monitor to review, it's not because we had a whistle on the play, it's because we didn't see something.   In that particular situation, when we don't have a foul that was called, we can come away with three things:   an F 2, an F 1 or a common foul, we cannot have a no‑call.   Those are reviews from last year.   
We don't call this a change, the word is 'alteration.'   We altered a rule last year that caused a great burn for players and officials and coaches.   That was a play, going to the rim, being defended by the defender, whether it be the primary defender or secondary defender outside the arc.   The rule last year said that player had to be in his upward motion, be airborne, and the defender had to be in position before all that started.   
Well, that has been altered.   We're going back to what the rule was two years ago, which means the defensive player, whether it's primary or secondary outside the arc, is entitled to get into legal guarding position anytime prior to the offensive player going airborne.   
Still a really difficult play to officiate.   I mean, even when I look at it over and over, still a hard play to officiate.   Again, it caused great disruption to our game last year.   As you all recall everything last year that was even questionable was a block.   The directive that the officials had if you weren't certain it would be called a block, going back to the way the rule was, I think we could see some more player files on players going to the rim.   
We now have a terminology that's taken over called 'officiating concerns,' we used to call those 'points of emphasis.'   We have several this year.   A year ago we changed the rule about defending the player with the ball regarding the hands.   We're now putting emphasis on defending the player without the basketball to where he's got to have his freedom of movement, thrown off stride trying to run his offense.  
Time and distance, being legal defensively is really important.   A lot of this depends on whether we're horizontal or vertical on this play.   More times than not when we're taking away somebody's freedom of movement it's a vertical move.   We're trying to do a lot that we can to take the physicality out of the basketball game.  
We did that a year ago with the hands on the dribbler, what you can and can't do.   We're now doing it with the offensive player having his freedom of movement.   
Along with that, post play is extremely difficult to officiate.   Kids are so big, so strong.   We've got a couple of things that are in the rule book.   The arm bar by the defender on an offensive player, as long as he's not pushing off, is legal if the offensive player does not have the basketball.   So post player doesn't have the ball, the arm ball is legal.  
As soon as the ball comes in, the arm bar has to go off, you have to play legal defense.   Again, we're trying to get away from any dislodging whereby the offensive player may back the defender down.   
Again, understand without the ball, arm bar is legal as long as you're not using it to extend.   Trying to get rid of the physical play on the post.   
Most all coaches will tell you, all basketball people will tell you, once the post player catches the ball on the low block, it's nearly impossible to defend him.   So, again, we're trying to get a good balance in what the offensive and defensive post players can do.   
Another concern, kind of a burn of mine, the monitor reviews.   Officials are very careful when they go to the monitor because they want to come away with the right answer.   In doing that, many times we all feel we all have to look at the monitor as an official.   We have the word 'indisputable evidence,' which means if an official is over there, he sees immediately the answer, we all three don't have to review that and have a long discussion about it.   
Last year in the NCAA tournament, the regional final game, we have a monitor review that took nine minutes.   
We're all going to be working with the replay techs, the officials, TV, what have you, to shorten the timeframe that we do the monitor reviews.   
These are some experimental things going on this year, only applying to the NIT tournaments.   These are four things we'll probably see a year from now that may be rule changes.   One of those is the four‑foot arc, widen the arc one foot.   Another is resetting the shot clock.   If we have a foul by the defensive team in the front court, instead of resetting to 35, we'll reset to 25.   If we have a timeout that occurs within 30 seconds of a media timeout, we'll take that time as the media time.   Again, something we can do to kind of shorten the basketball game.   
There's going to be an experimental rule where we'll do some experimenting with taking the shot clock from 35 to 30 seconds.   
That's a quick wrap‑up of the key changes a year ago, the alteration this year.   I don't know if there's anybody that has any questions.   If so, I'd be more than happy to answer them.   
   
 Q.   (Question regarding the defensive arm bar.)   
BOBBY DIBLER:   We're officiating that play with the same interpretation a year ago.   We maybe need to do a better job of all understanding.   It's now in the rule book that it's legal as long as they don't extend it.   
Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT