WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: ROUND ONE
March 10, 2006
Robert Eenhoorn
Shairon Martis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
 ROBERT EENHOORN:  Well, I obviously was very pleased how we came out swinging the bats.  For the first time we tasted being ahead.  Obviously in the beginning of the game we had no idea what this game would lead to because it was obviously Shairon's game all the way.  Very exciting, young pitcher.  I told him yesterday that I think he's going to have a very long career and he's going to be very good.  I think today you saw how good he is.  It's just a very exciting day for me, but I think for him it's a day he'll never forget.    
  Q.  This is for Shairon.  Could you just tell us what was going through your head throughout the game?  What's it's like to throw a no-hitter in this type of situation and just how your emotions were over the last couple of innings?   
 SHAIRON MARTIS:  When I was pitching, I was getting control of my fastball so they would hit as many ground balls as possible.   
  Q.  What was your impression and how did you feel pitching the first no-hit, no-run at this tournament here?   
 SHAIRON MARTIS:  As far as I'm concerned I was very pleased with my performance today.  For me it was special to do it in the World Baseball Classic so I'm very happy with my job?   
  Q.  Martis, how proud do you feel right now?   
 SHAIRON MARTIS:  Well, I feel very proud, and words cannot express what I feel.   
  Q.  Martis, could you please describe to us what was going through your head when you were one pitch away from the 65th pitch?   
 SHAIRON MARTIS:  I was intending to throw my fastball as much as possible so they would hit the ground ball?   
  Q.  This question is for Martis, as well.  For those of us who didn't have the opportunity to partake in the game today, I would like to know at which moments were the most crucial, most important, and where you performed your pitching correctly?   
 SHAIRON MARTIS:  I was using my fastball and the slider.   
  Q.  As all pitchers, I'm sure that when you go onto the mound that you're going to give your all to be able to win the game for your team.  I'd like to ask you what were you feeling when you finally actually realized that you were pitching a no-hitter, no-run?  What was going through your mind?   
 SHAIRON MARTIS:  What was going through my mind is I have to throw my fastball as often as possible so they cannot make any runs.   
  Q.  When the ball was hit to third base, the one that was ruled an error, did you think at first that you had lost the no-hitter?   
 ROBERT EENHOORN:  Yeah, the first time I thought they were going to get a hit.   
  Q.  This is a question for the pitcher.  You are a young pitcher, you are 18 years old, and I think that this was kind of like a birthday present beforehand.  Your birthday is coming up.  What I would like to know is your take on the type of wonderful performance that you gave here today and the situation itself and how all of that is going to be helping you in your career and also in the major leagues and also how is this performance, what you did here today, going to attract attention?   
 ROBERT EENHOORN:  For me it was very good and I'm going to keep doing my best.   
  Q.  What was going through your mind during the game today?   
 SHAIRON MARTIS:  What was going through my mind is I said that that game is actually going to be mine and I'm going to do everything possible to make sure that we win this game.   
  Q.  This question is for Sidney and Robert.  How early in the game did you realize how good his stuff was today and that he had a chance to do something special today?   
 ROBERT EENHOORN:  Well, obviously we've seen enough for our first couple weeks, the first time I really got to watch him, and we saw that he's a very talented young pitcher.  I told you that last night.   
 I thought when he went the second time through the heart of their lineup of Saenz and Lee and Ruben Rivera and the way he got them out, very experienced hitters that usually make adjustments in their second at-bat, that's when I first thought that he was going to be very tough to get a base hit off today.  But that was the first thought that came to my mind, the first time after facing them twice.   
 SIDNEY DE JONG:  He kept hitting the spots down later in the game to help them out a lot, kept velocity.  He just basically threw the whole game in his spots, but that's the most important thing.  And defense helped him out.  I think he's a great pitcher and he'll be around a long time.   
  Q.  Martis, I want to ask you what your take would be if you pitched for Cuba and Puerto Rico and the wonderful hit during the second inning, what is your opinion?   
 SHAIRON MARTIS:  My opinion that against Cuba, we had some problems against them.  Today I wanted to throw my fastball, and that's what I did.  If I had to go up against Puerto Rico and Cuba, I would have done everything possible to come really close, but I would have done everything possible to be able to win.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT