NBA FINALS: MAGIC v LAKERS
June 13, 2009
Hedo Turkoglu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You guys have been down against Philly, you've been down against Boston. Having been through those things, does it help you now to know that you can dig out? 
 HEDO TURKOGLU: I think so. I mean, like you said, throughout the playoffs, we've been in a whole lot of different situations, and throughout the games, we've been in a different situation, too. We've had leads we gave up, we came back from big leads. So I think it will help the confidence as a group. That we've come so far this way. 
 I mean, Dwight said it all, I think. We have confidence. We had a good meeting today and we had a good practice, and everybody is just feeling good about it and ready to go for tomorrow.  
 Q. Obviously you know that no team has ever come back down 3-1. Have you guys talked about the idea of making history? 
 HEDO TURKOGLU: Why not? That would be great. I would love to be part of it, and I'll try my best to make it happen. So I think all my teammates and coaching staff, they're in the same mind. 
 Like I said, we had a good meeting today. We talked about things we did wrong on Thursday. I think all around it's going to help us to have a better game for Sunday because we can't really -- I don't think we're going to make those kind of mistakes again over and over. I think we've learned. I know everybody is ready to go, excited about it. I know I am, I know everybody is, so hopefully like we did, third game here, we're going to start good and have good control all night and try to have a good game all around. 

 Q. Dwight mentioned that he didn't want to show -- even though he was hurt, he did not want you guys to see that. Do you guys feed off of his mood, his energy in terms of what he projects? 
 HEDO TURKOGLU: Yeah, we do. We do. Every shoot-around he came with great energy, great mindset that he's feeling good, so we saw that, and it's going to help us to be in that mode, too. I know he's going to be ready for tomorrow. He was ready today, too. He was focused and he was talking to us and he's going to help us to be in that mode, too. 
 Him being him, that energy, that aggressiveness, that desire I think is going to be a spark for all the other guys to be in that mode. I think everybody, like, realizes what kind of situation we are in right now, and I think we've got no more excuses. All we have to do is just play our game on Sunday and have a good time and get a win and go back to LA.  
 Q. How much as players do you guys talk about other teams that would celebrate on your floor, that you don't want this to happen? Last night the hockey thing was Pittsburgh-Detroit --
 HEDO TURKOGLU: I don't want to think about it right now because everyone's mindset right now is that we're going to win the game. If it happens, we'll see. But as a group right now, we have confidence in each other and we believe that we're going to win the game. We're going to do our best to do that, so we'll see about it after the game, who celebrates or what we do. 
 Right now I'm just happy to be in this situation.  
 Q. Really?
 HEDO TURKOGLU: I am, because it's a good time to show our character as a group. It's a good time right now. We're a good team. We've bounced back from a lot of difficulties, so this is a good one to learn from. So I hope everybody really responds their best and we'll get the win and go back to LA. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT