NBA FINALS: MAGIC v LAKERS
June 11, 2009
Hedo Turkoglu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q. You're one of the best free-throw shooters, if not the best free-throw shooter on this team, but you missed four free throws in the fourth quarter. What happened? 
 HEDO TURKOGLU: I wish I knew the answer. I don't know. It just didn't feel right in my hands, and you just have those moments that you miss it. 
 You're right about it, I should have been more focused and should have made those. Could have helped my team right now. 

 Q. There's all kinds of plays in game like this, moments you want back, but the free throws are something -- how much do you think about that as you go through what happened in this game? 
 HEDO TURKOGLU: We have confidence in each other, whoever is out there, whoever is taking a free throw. It's really hard to answer these questions. You just feel that moment just kind of slips out of your hand and you just miss it. You just don't want to let it bother you and just keep attacking hard, go to the basket again and be aggressive. I just thought I should be more aggressive and just think that I would make the next two and get my confidence and keep on going. But in that situation you just feel that time that something is not right and it just slips in your hands and you just miss it.

 Q. You know how much Dwight has been working on his free throws, to have those two at the end of the game --
 HEDO TURKOGLU: I mean, I should work with him, more and more right now, too, because I get the ball in my hands most of the time during the game and they're going to foul me. So I have to be prepared for that and make those free throws. 

 Q. What happened in the last play? Was that drawn up for you in the fourth quarter where Pietrus took the three? What went wrong? 
 HEDO TURKOGLU: It was totally my fault. I was supposed to pass it to Rashard, but it just kind of -- I heard it like numbers 3, 4, and I kind of panicked and I should have called time-out. I talked to MP. He had a good shot, but it's all my fault. I should have called time-out and let Coach draw some other play that could help us to win the game.

 Q. I thought one of the turning points of the game was when you picked up your fourth foul, I thought the Magic's offense really sputtered in the fourth quarter. How hard was it to watch from the bench?
 HEDO TURKOGLU: It was hard. I had myself going, too, so picking up that stupid foul, that really hurt me and hurt my team, too. I should be smart in that situation and couldn't make those kind of mistakes that put my team in that kind of situation. 
 I'll be more smart on Sunday. 

 Q. What do you have to do between now and Sunday to put this behind you and get ready? 
 HEDO TURKOGLU: I mean, I know it's a tough loss, man. We had it but just kind of slipped away because of our stupidness. We can't be really down on ourselves, no matter what. Win or lose tonight, we have to win the game on Sunday. What we have to do is just prepare ourselves in the best way and get ourselves ready, watch some film, talk about it and correct the stuff we did wrong tonight and have a better game all around on Sunday, and hopefully get that and go back to LA. 

 Q. Three-point lead with 11.1 seconds left, what was the strategy in those 11.1 seconds? Was there any discussion about fouling somebody and going to the line for two shots or just trying to get a stop?
 HEDO TURKOGLU: No, I just kind of denied Kobe and just didn't want him to take the shots. Derek Fisher, Jameer, he played good D out there, you can't do much --

 Q. What about fouling and not letting him get a shot off?
 HEDO TURKOGLU: In that situation you don't want to risk yourself, too. You never know in that situation. They're long, athletic, you miss, they miss and they get rebound, they put themselves in a better situation. 
 Jameer had a great contest, and Derek Fisher, he just made a big shot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT