U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 1, 2009
Bryan Norton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. This is Bryan Norton, 3-under on today's round, 1-under for the Championship. You had it going pretty good today. How are the conditions out there?   
 BRYAN NORTON: It was breezy today. It had an impact. As you know, when you kinda get things goin', it doesn't seem like anything can stop you, and I couldn't miss the putts, and some of the bogies I made were off of great shots and I got into a little bit of trouble.   
  
  Q. We've heard from other players, 16, 17, 18, tougher than they have been for the last two days?   
 BRYAN NORTON: 16 I made a terrible mistake, actually, 16 is easier because it's downwind, and I just hit a driver and hit it in a perfect place and made a silly mistake.   
 The pin is difficult, it's begging you to do something silly like I did. You're going to see some bogeys on 17 because even with a good shot you have to go over a ridge and stop your putt back there, which is going to be hard, and 18 is always hard.   
 I rolled it around the edge of the cup, but I made a bad mistake on 16. But besides that I played those finishing holes well.   
  
  Q. Any hole or shot stand out in today's round?   
 BRYAN NORTON: So many, but probably -- it's always fun when the ball goes in and the roar goes up, so right off the bat on No. 2 I made a quick downhiller and got the big roar, and that would be one.   
 Then it was nice because today I played the par 5s well and knocked in a couple on two, so those two par 5s on the back nine stand out because I played 'em just as well as I could play 'em, and I was able to hit irons on 11 and 15 onto the green.   
  
  Q. Your earlier point, I have never seen crowds like this, and you said you have never seen crowds like this in your career.   
 BRYAN NORTON: I've had four U.S. Opens, two as an amateur and two as a professional. They were never -- I was never playing any good, so I didn't have these kinds of crowds.   
 I think the biggest roar I ever heard in anything was when I was 21 years old when Jack Nicklaus won at Baltusrol in '80, and Tom Watson was playing right in front of me, and he had made a hole in one on 4, right in front of me, and as you know at Baltusrol, you can see many of the holes, and they didn't stop cheering until he took the ball out of the hole.   
 You know those New York crowds, it didn't stop for 5 minutes, I had goose bumps so badly I couldn't hit my shot! Hale made a bunch of birdies, and I did, too, so -- we made a few bogies but we put on a good show today.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT