U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 1, 2009
Bryan Norton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Amateurs here, I mean, you all are making a big noise here. How does it feel to be an amateur playing with Hale and getting your name called and see the gallery? 
 BRYAN NORTON: Well, you know, it's pretty nerve-racking, actually. But as I was just mentioning to someone else a moment ago, I played a practice round with Tom Watson on Wednesday, and I did that on purpose. I know his business manager in Kansas City and I requested it. 
 I thought because I haven't played in front of people in 20 years, I thought I better get use to this real quick. So that really helped today. 
 I mean, then as it turned out I played good too. When you play good, you relax a little bit. Mainly I would attribute it to playing with Tom on Wednesday and just finding a way to get comfortable with that and translate into good rounds the first three days here. 

 Q. What's it like putting the numbers you're putting up against guy who's play golf week in and week out? I know it's kind of -- 
 BRYAN NORTON: I'm working stiff [laughter]. 
That's a good question. And I think the best answer to that is just I think Tim Jackson's really inspiring a lot of amateurs this week. 
 You know Tim, he grabbed the lead early that first day, and he's just running with it. So much like with Tom Watson and the British Open two weeks ago. I think he is inspired a lot of golfers. Tim Jackson's really inspiring a lot of amateur golfers around the country, including myself. So when somebody does it, you kind of start thinking, hey, if Tim can do it, maybe I can do it. And so I'm just kind of running with that thought right now. 

 Q. Golf has always been kind of like an equalizing sport. When the men and women get on the links everyone starts out same, and how good you play is how good you're going to be seen. As an amateur, that makes you feel good. If I play my best, they're going notice me.
 BRYAN NORTON: Yeah, if you play your best, it's that kind of game. It's so hard to master. I think that's why people keep coming back. But when you do play well, like I'm playing well this week, you just feel like you can compete, and so it's just nice. 
 I mean, I haven't played this good all year. It's a nice time to pick to play my best golf of the summer -- the Senior U.S. Open. So lucky for me. 

 Q. Don't jinx it you still got one more day?
 BRYAN NORTON: Exactly. Hopefully I'll do it again tomorrow, and I'm playing fine. So my caddy will keep me on the straight and narrow hopefully tomorrow and we'll go out and have another good day. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT