UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA MEDIA CONFERENCE
March 13, 2012
Brent Pease
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  BRENT PEASE:   I hope as time goes along I'll get a chance to know everybody.   But I'm really looking forward to the opportunity that University of Florida, Coach Muschamp and everybody has given me to work for this institution.   Really excited. 

Q.   Fans when a new coordinator comes in want to know what's his philosophy, what's his offensive philosophy, so what's your offensive philosophy if there is one?
BRENT PEASE:   Well, I think there's five foundations we're always going to build around.   One, we're going to have a pounding, running attack.   We just want to have a running attack that's physical, downhill, and when we have to run the ball we're going to run the ball.   It's going to be a part of our makeup, a part of our identity up front. 
Two, off of that you want to develop an explosive pass game, and that's where your launch plays come in.   That's where you set up things that you can create those explosive plays that Coach Muschamp was even talking about. 
Third thing is the kind of creativity that we've always developed where I've been at before where we're going to have shifts in motion and make things difficult and cause confusion for the defenses.   We're not going to be sitting ducks.   You're going to see a lot of formation changes, motions, adjustments really trying to create some stress points in the defense and what they have to adjust to.   You're going to see the same football plays.   We're not going to run anything different.   People run power, we're going to run power; they run zone, we're going to run zone.   No one is reinventing that part of it.   But what we're going to add to it is creating those stress points.
The fourth thing is eliminating turnovers.   That's probably the one stat that in the last six years, Boise State, we had a stat that we actually kept in our locker room, and that's probably the most important stat for determining win‑loss is that we wanted to be in the top ten in turnovers. 
So obviously you've got to‑‑ your defense has to work with you on it as well as your offense, but it's something that we're going to really work on and be conscious about and work drills and ball security circuits and do that for the offensive guys. 
And then the fifth thing is great quarterback play.   You've got to understand what the kids can handle.   I've been very fortunate in the kid I had last year.   He was a Heisman Trophy guy, and he made a lot of things go, but he also had some good players around him.   It wasn't just him.   He'd be the first to admit that.   But you've got to develop the kid that's there. 
The kids that we have, the kids that are competing for it, you've got to get consistent play.   Great management, accuracy, decision making, kid has got to be tough, football players at the quarterback position.   So develop those five foundations right there. 

Q.   One of the things that Boise State, everybody thinks they're a finesse team, but they showed against Georgia toughness is really a big deal with them, particularly with the running game.   How do you develop toughness in the running game?   How do you become a team that dominates on the line of scrimmage and that translates into the offense that you want? 
BRENT PEASE:   One, it starts in the weight room.   Like they say, probably three quarters of your game is probably won in the weight room right now.   And then the coaches add in their fundamental teaching and the coaching and add in the schemes.   But right now you're developing your toughness, your physicality, your discipline that you want to get to kind of blend into the scheme of your offense and defense and special teams. 
So that's all being developed right now, and then what we've got to do is go and put in our schemes that we're going to have in the run game and giving kids an opportunity to execute it.   We've got to still make sure we have enough, whether it's a zone scheme, gap scheme, that we're giving our kids an opportunity to be successful with what they're doing and what they're best at.   I know last year everything was a lot of outside stretch because of Rainey and Demps.   I don't know if we have those kids this year.   So we'll probably adjust a little bit to more inside zone and run some power, all that, to fit the kids that we have.
And then continually build up repetitions over that and put them in tough situations and let the kids‑‑ the one thing about linemen, when things get going and get rolling and they can block people, they continually want to do it, so they're telling‑‑ they like to put the grind on people, so you've got to develop repetitions over it. 

Q.   There were reports that you were going to interview with Alabama.   What was it about Florida, Gainesville, whatever, that had you cancel that interview and stay here and sign on the spot almost? 
BRENT PEASE:   How do you know I canceled it? 

Q.   Did you? 
BRENT PEASE:   It doesn't matter now. 

Q.   So why Florida over Alabama?
BRENT PEASE:   Well, really it came down to coming here with my wife, and my wife liked it, and Will.   I've known Will for a while, and over the years the developing relationship I had with him and just looking at the opportunity, the kids, being indirectly connected to the program one way or another.   And I'll tell you another guy that kind of really sold me on the deal is Jeremy Foley, and just all that coming in. 
When I came here, I mean, obviously I was‑‑ everybody did things first‑class, and talking with Will and what he wants to do philosophically and what I've done in the past few years where I've been at Boise State and the things we've been around, seeing that those things can fit here.
So I think there's a big upside, and I think where he's going to take the program and where I want to be a part of that.   So that was my decision. 

Q.   $100,000 signing bonus not bad, either. 
BRENT PEASE:   (Laughs.)

Q.   Is it difficult at all as an offensive coordinator, usually OCs move and get to bring guys with him, whether it be running backs coach, receivers coach.   Is it difficult to be the guy who has to kind of fit in with everybody around you? 
BRENT PEASE:   Sure.   I don't know if it's difficult.   We're kind of all used it in the profession now, being a coach, and the‑‑ and I've known Brian for a while, so I was comfortable knowing him.   And now Tim Davis is here; kind of our paths have crossed through some people and stuff.   And then I met the other coaches, and just in talking with them I think there's some things that blended, and it was kind of an easy situation for everybody.
But I've been in a situation where I moved and I brought everything and terminology, how we're going to do it and changed it on the kids, and I think that's very tough.   So that's one thing I said, yeah, I mean, that's what Will also wanted was that keep as much of it consistent for what they're going to be able to know and what they can do, and obviously we want to add some new things, but the one thing about the kids here, just talking‑‑ they're all eager about it and they're very smart and they're willing to do that, and they've been through change before.   It's like kids, like my kids moving here.   That's what kids do.   They're used to change at that time, so they can handle that.   We'll blend all that in. 

Q.   You guys have Brissett and Driskel both listed as the No.1 quarterback.   Do either of them have an advantage based on last season? 
BRENT PEASE:   No, I don't believe that.   I haven't really seen anything to associate‑‑ I think it's coming in, everything is based off of the fact that they're here.   I think the fact that they've been consistent off‑season in workouts, and they're two of the guys that can lead the team.   There's going to be other guys that get reps, also, but right now they're the guys in the position that they kind of were at last year.   They're the guys that can lead the team.   I mean, I haven't even seen these guys throw a football other than watching film of them, and some of it goes back to some high school, when they were in high school and I watched them.   That's kind of what I know of them right now. 

Q.   Did you recruit any of the guys that are on this roster at any time? 
BRENT PEASE:   Yeah, for about a day, you know.   Not really.   At Boise State there wasn't many kids that were going to probably be in that situation to probably move out there.   No. 

Q.   When you did watch film from last year, offensively was there an area, because there was struggling obviously in every area, but was there one area in particular that you were surprised at how much work needed to be done?
BRENT PEASE:   You know, not necessarily because I haven't focused on a lot of past film.   That's just something I didn't want to do coming in here.   I didn't want to get any preconceived notions of what I wanted to develop.   I wanted all these kids to have a fresh start and I didn't want to determine this is what I see, this is their inadequacies or whatever.   I didn't do that.   I watched some film with some scheme stuff what they did and how things fit in, but I'd agree with what Will wants to develop, that we want to get more physical up front, we want to develop a little bit better tempo, we want to eliminate some turnovers, a lot of turnovers, and put ourselves in better situations.
The things that the kids‑‑ like being at Boise State, one of the things that's always worked so well is we were good offensively, but we were good because our defense played well, also, in all three phases of the team.   Special teams helped set us up in great short field positions at times, and we fed off that.   We fed off turnovers from our defense.   And so‑‑ and seeing all that, I want to see all that work together here, too.

Q.   And Kellen seemed to be a kid that really worked at it off the field‑‑
BRENT PEASE:   Oh, yeah.

Q.   Have you seen that at all even in a minor amount from either Driskell or Brissett at this point?
BRENT PEASE:   Yeah, I think both the kids are very eager.   I mean, there's been more than both of them that have come in, hey, can we get a playbook.   Well, I've been here for two days, I don't really have one right now.   But you can't give the kids those things at that time. 
But I think them coming in and studying the film of some things that we're going to put in and how much time they put into it, because that's one thing I'd say to them is the requirements for a quarterback.   You've got to be a guy that you want to prepare.   You've got to be that gym rat type guy, and that's why Kellen is so good.   He's grown up with that.   His dad was his coach through high school, and then he continued that.   He knew what it was to prepare.
These guys have shown that, Jeff and even Tyler and Jacoby.   They've all been in there.   They've been grinding on film on their own because they can take that and use as much of that time as they're willing to do. 

Q.   How much is the challenge of installing your scheme compounded by the fact that you've got a quarterback battle and they're both young guys who really haven't played a lot?
BRENT PEASE:   Well, I think it's a challenge, but it's a good challenge because you want‑‑ in spring it's a time to challenge everybody, so you've got to challenge your quarterbacks, see how much they can handle.   How much they can handle tells us how fast and how much more we can add and move along.   Then in the fall you kind of gear it back and try to do things that will be successful for what you're really trying to establish and the foundation and your philosophy. 
So we're going to tax them this spring.   There's going to be mistakes, and I told the guys this.   We're going to go out‑‑ that's the one thing that was so beneficial to where we were was that kids taught kids a lot of places because there's been so much tradition brought up through it, but now you're not going to have that for the first week, two weeks, three weeks, whatever it takes.   You're going to have guys trying to survive and am I doing this right, a little bit like you were talking about with Dan, the guys are playing fast and creating turnovers.   These guys are going to be hoping they're doing the right things. 
But eventually it'll click.   There's got to be a patience level with coaches and understand that the learning curve and what they're going to do is going to be big at the beginning.

Q.   Will mentioned if you guys don't find one guy that you'd be okay with playing two.   Has that been something you've had to deal with before in terms of a regular season, switching between two quarterbacks, did it work well, are you a proponent of it?
BRENT PEASE:   Yeah, I've been in a situation where you've had to use both.   It'll work well if you've got the right type of kids that both can compete and you kind of use their strengths to how you're going to manage the game.   Not particularly in favor of that.   I'd rather see one kid step forward and take charge and be productive and let it be his team.   But if that's not the way it works out, then as coaches you've got to do what's best for your football team. 

Q.   Obviously you have Aubrey there to coach the receivers, but what role will you play in trying to bring that group along and get stuff from them that they haven't been able to produce the past couple years?
BRENT PEASE:   Well, Aubrey is a good coach.   He knows, and I think a lot of it in the passing game, because it ties in with the quarterback so much, that you just get those guys all on the same page.   I mean, before I was doing quarterbacks at Boise State I coached wide receivers, so I kind of got that where I lean towards those guys a little bit at that time and I had a few good ones through the years there.   So you kind of hope you find those kids here that kind of fit those roles that those guys did.
As far as development, it's just being consistent and getting in a good time and a good rhythm, seeing situations that's going to make them have to compete for those type of spots in games or react to those type of situations.   That's where I think my past experience has helped, that I can bring that to help and how the development of those kids have come along from their freshman year through their senior years. 

Q.   Will mentioned it the last time we all met together, but how important was it for you or how big of a factor was it for you that you got to witness a Bowl practice and see the team and see the coaches in action and stuff like that? 
BRENT PEASE:   You mean me personally? 

Q.   Yeah. 
BRENT PEASE:   Well, I think it's real important.   I wanted to go there and kind of see what‑‑ wanted to see how the guys threw the ball and how they competed and when practice was close to what we're doing.   I think sometimes if you don't come here and kind of look at what's going on or test the waters a little bit to see if‑‑ see if I'm a fit.   I still want to be a fit and work well with the people that I'm going to be with, as well, just like in recruiting.   You want a kid to be a fit at the school.   Sometimes they're still good athletes but they might not be a fit for the situation. 
I believe I'm a good coach, but I want to make sure I fit in with everybody.   If I didn't, there probably would have been somebody else better for it.

Q.   How do you see yourself as a fit?
BRENT PEASE:   Oh, I think I've grown over time with the experience of understanding that there's a lot of ideas, understand how you mesh those people.   I think the philosophy of what we're going to do is going to be what Will wants and also what the other coaches are comfortable with and my experience coaching young quarterbacks.

Q.   Is there anything intimidating about coming‑‑ would you talk about the influences that have helped develop your philosophy?   I know being part of the Boise system goes back to Mike Bellotti and UC Davis, but who else has helped your offensive philosophy?
BRENT PEASE:   Well, I think when I was a player, one of the guys that coached me‑‑ it kind of really goes back to when I was a player in college, Don Reed.   You'd probably have to do some research on that.   He's retired now.   But he brought the passing game when I played at the University of Montana gave me an opportunity to play and go on and play professionally. 
After that when I got in, June Jones ‑ he's now the head coach at SMU ‑ and June was one of my coaches as well as Mouse Davis.   Now I'm not really a run‑and‑shoot guy, but I believe in some of the philosophies and some of the schemes that can fit into a pro style offense and kind of the development of the quarterback spot. 
From there it goes‑‑ I'd even say that Chan Gailey, you all know probably in this part of the country was an influence on me as a player, and then I get into the Boise State system where I think it really started with Dirk Koetter, and Dirk, who was the coordinator over at Jacksonville, he really started it, and then Dan Hawkins brought along, and then of course Chris Petersen who was the coordinator and the head coach I worked for there.   I think a lot of the influence of that and the development of everything that's gone on there as helped me as a coach more so.   Obviously I wasn't a player then but helped me as a coach see some things and improve and detail and get into the fundamentals of everything that can make the system successful. 

Q.   Is there anything intimidating about coming to a place like Florida that's got a tradition or a reputation of having a high‑octane, high‑powered offense?
BRENT PEASE:   I mean, I don't really know‑‑ I wouldn't say intimidating.   From my state of mind, I'd say respectful.   I've been in the SEC once before and not at a school with a tradition quite like this.   But I understand what the past is here and what's gone on with the offenses, and I've faced it and been on the other side of it at times.   I think more respect from my standpoint. 
But coaching is coaching.   We're going to take all the kids that we have offensively, go out there and develop them and put a system in and be smart with what we do and try to line them up and give them a chance to be successful and score points. 

Q.   And what would you say is your demeanor out on the practice field? 
BRENT PEASE:   Come on, you guys have researched that already.   What's my demeanor?   My demeanor is very calm, cool and collected. 

Q.   At all times?
BRENT PEASE:   No, not at all times.   I'll blow a gasket here or there.

Q.   What makes you blow a gasket more than anything else?
BRENT PEASE:   I'm not going to blow a gasket.   I'm joking around, okay.   I've got an intensity point.   The only thing that‑‑ whatever really personally challenges me is if a kid is not giving effort.   Everything else after that, I mean, there's obviously going to be mistakes, and we understand that.   But if there is not effort involved‑‑ because that's the easiest thing.   That's what they all understand that is required is go out there and give effort, 100 percent.   If you don't give your effort, then that's when you get challenged as a coach. 

Q.   Do you miss the blue turf yet?
BRENT PEASE:   Do I miss the blue turf?   No.   It's hard on the eyes.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT