ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
March 9, 2015
Peter Moores
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Peter, thanks for your time.  I know said you said you had no regrets about taking the coaching job again.  Right now do you feel that fundamentally you've done anything wrong during England's World Cup?  PETER MOORES: I don't think at the moment -- I'm thinking that every day as a coach you look at things that you could have done and if you've got it right or whatever; that's normal.  At a time like now you feel hollow inside and you feel hugely disappointed.  So you're not going to do a lot of thinking apart from the disappointment you've got for the campaign.  We had a huge ambition to come in and help the team do well for their country, and we haven't done that. Any analysis of anything else and looking back, I'll do later, not today.   Q.  Time is a precious commodity, especially at the top level.  Do you think you will be given time to move on from here with England in your role?  PETER MOORES: Well, it's certainly not my decision.  I hope so.  I said yesterday I'm here to try and make a difference.  Certainly on a day like today you look at it and you know we have a lot of work to do in one-day cricket.  There's no doubt about that.  We haven't played well enough in this tournament all the way through, and that's fundamentally something we'll have to look at.  And today, as I say, you can't look too far.  All you know is it's a game we felt we should have won.  At the halfway stage we felt we should have chased to some fives and we didn't do it, and we've just got to take that on the chin.   Q.  Obviously you're still raw from this, but can you understand why people might be saying at home, look, this guy has had two goes at this job, they've lost four games out of five, their only victory against Scotland.  Can you understand why they might be saying this guy isn't the man for the job?  PETER MOORES: Yeah, it goes with the territory, but it's a biggest picture than that for me.  We haven't played good one-day cricket for a while, and I think honestly, if you honestly look at the facts, there's areas we know we've got to get better.  We haven't got enough variations in certain areas.  We've picked some young players because we've lost some players over the last 12 to 18 months.  We've lost quite a few players from both test match and the one-day side.  We've brought a young side here.  We tried to bring what we thought was an exciting group of players who can play explosive cricket.  There's always a challenge with that in World Cups.  I think we know often World Cups are won by experienced sides because of the tournament play, and it hasn't happened for us. So there's definitely work to do.  I think the players that have played, I don't think they're bad players, we just haven't played well enough.   Q.  Do you feel your message is getting through to them?  England have had eight months of straight preparation for this tournament, and here we are going home.  PETER MOORES: Yeah, I think we prepared well.  I think we've covered the right stuff, but we haven't played well in the field or certainly haven't put it together, so if we've batted well, we haven't bowled well, and we haven't put in as a combined performance to win games of cricket, we have to take that.  There's been a lack of consistency, and also there's no lack of passion or desire in that team.  Getting it out of themselves on the cricket field I think has been tough for some of them, and that is something that they'll get with hopefully playing more cricket. At the moment, as I say, you can't analyze too far because we just come out of a tournament which we all came here with a great ambition to try and do well in.   Q.  The decks have been cleared for one-day cricket this winter.  You've had five months to impose your strategy on the team and improve their one day skills, and yet England look so far removed from best teams in the world at 50-over cricket.  Why do you think it is that you're not able to improve the team despite having five months to do it?  PETER MOORES: Five months is not long in sport in some ways.  The challenge we've got in one-day cricket, I think, as I said, it goes a little bit deeper than that, so we put a side out -- we've love a left-arm seamer, and we'd love some different spin, maybe options.  We've got some good cricketers, but we need more depth in our one-day cricket. As I say, we've had a lot of changes over the last 12 to 18 months, so we came to this tournament knowing it wasn't a settled side.  Could we have been a settled side?  I don't think there's that many obvious choices of who was going to play, so we had to create opportunity for people, which is what we've been doing. Some lads have taken that.  We've seen Moeen Ali come to the top of the order and start to take his chance, to give people opportunity to take some time because you've got to go through series.  We've seen players start to move.  We haven't moved far enough.  We haven't played well enough, and as I say, I'm not going to try -- I'll look at my part and my role in that, as I expect every player to do the same.   Q.  Just in your own situation, Paul Downton is your immediate boss.  What sort of conversations will you have with him and perhaps even the chief executive about your future?  PETER MOORES: Well, I mean, conversations I have with him will be -- it's not for me to think about now.  That's something for the next few days and for the future really.  It's not something to do now at the moment.  As I say, we've just existed a World Cup, so I'm not going to start looking at what conversations I'll have with Paul in the future.   Q.  Do you want to carry on?  PETER MOORES: I want to carry on desperately, yeah.   Q.  Where do you think kind of the blame or the main responsibility lies with England going out here?  Is it with the players who do the batting and the bowling?  Is it the coaching and the management staff and selectors, or is it a structure, a deeper seated thing with English cricket that we've just neglected one-day cricket for so long?  PETER MOORES: I think I'm not going to stand here and say we all shouldn't take some responsibility.  Of course we should.  I'm the coach, we have a set of players, and everybody has got to take an amount of the entire responsibility.  There's some deeper seated things I think that go with our one-day cricket that have been talked a lot about in the press, and I think we know them.  I've tried to create opportunities for players to play against better players more often, and get recognition for doing that, and that's -- I think we can see by how many games of ODIs our guys play compared to maybe other places in the world and the exposure they get to bigger tournaments.  We're behind, and we've got to catch that up. Looking at some of our players now, we've got some exciting players, though they've got to be more consistent in how they develop over the next 12 months, but I do think that we should also -- we're going to have to look at how our one-day cricket is across the board, but it's not something to do now, but that's something for the future.   Q.  With that in mind, do you think that the obvious anger and indignation that there will be at this result perhaps is misplaced because of these deep-seated issues that you talk about have not been addressed?  PETER MOORES: I just think at the moment people are going to be very upset, as we're very upset, because we've got a lot of passionate fans out there and they're desperate for us to do well and we know that and we feel it, and that makes you feel as a person terrible because you want to do better.  So you can't go beyond -- I can't go beyond that at the moment. In time you'll look at it, but I think there's certainly areas for us to look at as a group, as an organisation, and as players.   Q.  Do you think it was an error to remove Alastair as captain when you did, or should you have done it sooner to give a better chance to the leadership or to have persisted with Alastair who people knew as the captain?  PETER MOORES: There will be a million and one things people say could we have done this or could we have done that.  What has happened has happened.  I don't think that's fundamental.  I think Eoin is a fine one-day cricketer.  I think he's had a tough start as a captain, but I think he's got real potential as a captain. You know, I'm not going to go about individual things that got over the last five to six months of could we have done this and could we have done that.  We'll look at that later.  But ultimately it is going to be about making decisions of how we're moving forward and what we're going to do.   Q.  Talk about the Bangladeshi performance today.  PETER MOORES: I thought they played really well.  I thought that the hundred scored was a really good hundred.  I think he played the right game on the pitch because it was a strong pitch to play shots on, and I think he did that and it was a very good partnership.  In this moment we're going to feel about our lack of performance, but give Bangladesh their due, they did play well.  But certainly as I say, I thought we bowled well at the end, and 275 was short as a score, and I think we should have chased that down. But credit, we didn't -- I didn't expect that the wickets would have fallen to seam, which they did.  I think most people thought the spin would be a key element of the game, and it proved not to be.   Q.  Can you give us your view of the Chris Jordan run out?  You seemed pretty animated on the sideline?  PETER MOORES: I was in the dugout because I was there for the players; I wanted to be able to talk and advise and see where things were at, so we couldn't see it on the screen.  We could only see on the big screen like everybody else.  Of course you're going to be disappointed because from a long way away, on that screen, it looked like it was a tough call to give him out. I've not seen it.  It's one of those things you want to go back and look at, though it won't make any difference now.  It looked like the shoulder of the bat was in, yeah, it was grounded.   Q.  Eoin said he wanted to carry on as one-day captain.  Would you like him to carry on as one-day captain?  PETER MOORES: Yeah, I mean, obviously I think Eoin is conscious like everybody at times that you don't want to take anything for granted or whatever because you're hurting emotionally, but I'll speak with Eoin a different time.  I think he did say exactly what he has, and he's enjoyed the captaincy and he's growing as he gets to know it because it's a tough job, certainly a tough job in a World Cup. But I thought tactically in the field today he had a good day how he swapped his fields around.  But he's going to be -- the same as everybody else, he's going to be hurting, so there's another time to look at that.   Q.  I just wondered how long do you think England need to get up to the speed that other teams seem to be traveling at in this tournament?  PETER MOORES: Maybe not as long as some people think because we've seen one-day sides emerge quite quickly within sort of -- I think sort of 15 to 18 months.  It depends on how well those players -- now, one of the things that's going to happen, we're going to play a huge amount of test match cricket now, 17 tests, which is going to dominate the international calendar for a while, so I don't know how long it'll be.  As I said, all the players who have been through this tournament now, the young players who have been through the tournament, they've learnt some very tough lessons, and we've seen some sides play at the top of their game, so we know what the benchmark is.  Watching New Zealand play and Australia play with the two games we played there against two top flight sides, I think for anybody who was involved in those games, one, it was a very tough experience, but two, they could see the quality of how they were batting, bowling and fielding, and those areas we've got to move.   Q.  When the players talk about their approach to their game, they say some odd things of executing skills or getting tighter as a group, where you hear a lot of other teams talking with quite clarity.  Do you feel your message is getting through?  PETER MOORES: Yeah, I think the lads know what they want to do.  You know, they are -- they know what they're trying to do.  But if someone is talking about execution, it probably means they're not playing the shot they want to play or they know the shot they want to play, they just haven't played it well enough.  What words they use to describe that today, I think the key is you've got to be able to hit the ball consistently well, and we see often experienced players sort of dominating this World Cup as people have played a little bit longer than some of our lads, yes, but as I say, we make no excuses.  I think the messages are clear.  I think the players, as I say, they know what they're trying to do.  We haven't always done that, so we've paid the penalty of being out of the tournament.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT