ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
March 8, 2015
Peter Moores
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Are you able to confirm, Peter, whether Alex hails will play in this game?  PETER MOORES: No, we're not going to have that today.  I think like everybody else, we'll wait until the toss of the coin tomorrow.  We've always had plenty of time to think about our team, which we've done, and we'll speak to the captain and want to keep that until tomorrow.  So we're not going to be announcing any team news.   Q.  How big of a core would it be to introduce him, but Eoin said yesterday even though he struggled a bit, they called to draw Gary from the side?  PETER MOORES: Well, Gary he is a really good player.  He's had a tough time of it.  I think he knows that, but it doesn't mean he's not a good player.  In any tournament play, you've obviously got to get the best 11 out to win a game.  We know we've got a really big game tomorrow against Bangladesh that we've got to win.  So we thought about what we think is our best team.  We always do the same thing.  Put out the best 11.  We're pretty clear on what that 11 is now, and we'll announce that tomorrow on the toss.   Q.  Talk about the drop in pitch these days, but it does return here in Adelaide.  Has James Treadwell got a good chance of playing or just to mix things up a little bit really?  PETER MOORES: The pitch is a good pitch.  I just looked at it again now.  It is a drop-in pitch.  It looks historically a good batting pitch here, so I expect it to be full of runs, and bowling-wise, we'll put out what we think is the best team to be able to take wickets, put them under pressure and obviously win the game.   Q.  Tomorrow is England must-win game.  Do you think there is psychological pressure of England in this match?  PETER MOORES: Well, there is pressure in the World Cup, and certainly pressure on us as a team because we haven't played as well as we'd like to have done.  We know we've got to win the game, and that is part of International Cricket.  International Cricket is about being able to handle pressure.  We've had some challenges, that's for sure.  We've got a mix of experience of young players and the ability to be able to handle pressure and play under pressure is part of the job of being an international player.  So that will be the challenge of the players tomorrow.  We're very aware of it, and I think we're very up for that challenge.   Q.  What would you change of the 11?  Have you made a decision as a coach and coaching group that you need to change your strategy as you go into this match?  PETER MOORES: I don't think the strategy -- I think the strategies that are going on in this World Cup are pretty clear.  We have to be able to improve how we execute our skills so to do that you've seen certain things happen in the game.  So the bowling, how people bowl has moved more to a test style match of bowling.  People are attacking the outside edge, attacking from the pad, or some people have gone short and gotten wickets.  Is that style of bowling without getting wickets before the end of the game, the ability of the player to now either reposition himself from the crease, attack the gaps as well as over the top is getting better.  So he needs to to be able to do that.  We're very aware of that.  We're working really hard to improve on that, because those are areas we know we have to get better if we're going to progress. Tomorrow's our first chance.  We can't go much further than that.  We've got to get a win tomorrow to stay in the tournament.   Q.  As you say it is a wig game tomorrow.  Have you seen any sign of fear?  How do you guard against your players sort of freezing on the big stage?  PETER MOORES: I think anybody that's watched us play, there are challenges of playing International Cricket.  International Cricket is played by tough men when they play.  There is no compromising that.  When people come into that environment, sometimes they've got to get used to it.  We've got senior players who their responsibility is to be like that and help others integrate in.  Some of our younger players have been through some pretty tough experiences over the last -- this winter, and they have to adapt to them, and they have to be able to then come back with something.  So, yes, it's a pressure game. In our preparation I only see a lot of people very excited to play, and they feel they've got a point to prove and they want to go out and start proving that.  The only place to do that is on the cricket field.   Q.  Might you be inclined to give Chris Woakes the new ball again?  And also what do you think of Jimmie and Broad and why haven't they been able to do what they usually do in this tournament?  PETER MOORES: I think generally what you're trying to avoid is slipping into a mentality where you're bowling a safe length.  I think, as I say, you challenge the front pad often and also you bowl aggressively.  Swing has been important in this tournament, and it's an area we've got good swing bowlers and people like Anderson and Woakes, and they've looked at their games to see and make sure they can get the most out of that, because that is going to be a fact, getting the ball moving laterally makes quite a difference in One Day cricket.   Q.  Last World Cup England lost against Bangladesh, so this is very important for England this match.  Is this match a revenge for England?  PETER MOORES: Could you say that last bit again?   Q.  Is this match revenge for England, because last World Cup England lost against Bangladesh, so is this revenge for England?  PETER MOORES: Yeah, what happened in the last World Cup doesn't real other matter.  We have a different group of players.  This group of players are very focused on how we're going to play tomorrow and how we're going to pitch and play the best game we can, and that is the most important thing for us.   Q.  You talk about pressure.  I wonder how you're coping with the personal pressure on you, and if at any moment in the last few weeks you've regretted coming back to take this job?  PETER MOORES: No, regrets at all.  I came in because I felt I could make a difference.  You're one of a lot of people working together.  We know certainly the One Day format of the game is an area we'd be behind, and it's an area we've got to get better.  I think we're selecting players that are exciting players and can improve quickly, and they have put themselves together as a group to win sides. We've played a couple of really tough sides.  New Zealand at home and Australia away played exceptional cricket, and that's something that the players that played and the coaches that coached that we've got to look at and say, okay, how can we make sure we play that style of cricket and towards it? But I have no regrets taking on the challenge.  Regarding yourself as a coach, you've got only one focus here.  We're in a World Cup.  This is once every four years.  Everybody's focused on England doing well.  We've got one goal, and that is tomorrow to win a game to stay in this tournament and move on to the next one, so that takes up all my time.   Q.  How are you coping with the pressure?  PETER MOORES: Personally?   Q.  Yeah.  PETER MOORES: I'm fine.  I'm fine.  We've got a very committed group of players and very committed group of coaches.  That to me is the most important thing at the moment.  We're doing everything we possibly can.  We want to improve quickly on the field to start to get results.   Q.  Your new chairman suggested that you might be able to pick KP again soon.  That must be tremendously exciting for you.  PETER MOORES: Yeah, obviously, we're over here, but it sounds like it was taken out of context.  I think the policy on the KP situation has been made pretty clear by Paul.   Q.  Obviously, your primary concern is the World Cup, but in England the coach has to think about a lot of other things such as Test Cricket to come up.  You've had a few days off.  The national selector is here.  Have you been thinking about possible test squad for the West Indies?  Have you spoken to Alastair Cook at all since you've been out here, and have you had any communication with Jonathan Trott?  PETER MOORES: Yeah, let me take them one by one.  Jimmie coming out here, part of the reason was to discuss future things.  We've got the West Indies coming up, and that is obviously very handy, as well as getting an interview on the World Cup and where we are.  Yes, I speak to Alastair quite a bit.  He's in a good place as well outside of this to be able to help plan and look at Test Match cricket going forward.  We have a lot of it. So in that respect, yeah, I think we're getting clearer on going forward and those things have got to go on the same side because of the way the schedules work, we come out of this World Cup straight into the West Indies and more cricket, yeah.   Q.  Have you any extra work about Bangladesh's spin?  PETER MOORES: Yeah, we've seen quite a lot of Bangladesh.  The beauty of tournament play is you see all the signs all the time.  It's part of the excitement.  Everybody watches everybody else.  Not only that you could look at your own footage, you put it on the TV and it repeats all the time, so I think they all know us, and we'll know them.  That's part of players talk about each other's players and that is partly the challenge.  International players got to handle so people will know what he's about.   Q.  Jonathan Trott, what is the stance on Jonathan?  Are you any further down on managing the pace bowlers of West Indies and beyond world cricket coming up?  PETER MOORES: On Jonathan?  Jonathan's obviously been with the Lions and Jimmie's been obviously in touch as all the players outside of our current group here, we stay in regular contact with.  So that's normal for us. Regarding the management of pace bowlers, a lot of the management of those pace bowlers sometimes looks after itself because of injuries and whatever.  We're very conscious of what's going forward.  At the moment in this World Cup the volume we're playing isn't really the issue.  We'll keep an eye on it.  In the moments we've got fit bowlers, but it's something we monitored as we go through.  We want to put on the best England team we can all the time.  Mindful of we've got some bigger series.  Obviously, whatever, but we'll monitor it as we go.   Q.  You said you came back to coach England team because you felt you could make a difference.  Do you feel you've made a difference, and if so, how?  PETER MOORES: I think time tells from coaching.  I'd love to say things change straightaway, but they don't.  Sometimes you get some bonuses.  I think what we've seen is the emergence of some players, the identification of some players and some who have had really good times and some with challenges.  So the emergence of someone like Mo over the last nine, ten months is exciting.  Watching Joe Root come in and really starting to grow as a player. So individually we've seen people grow.  There is work to be done certainly on things outside of us on how we work with our younger ODI players and how we prepare people to go in to play the right style of cricket, and that's a long-term thing.  And Test Match wise it was great to finish strong.  It was great to finish with three Test Match wins with India and identify a new look sort of batting lineup and try to see some new players.  So those are exciting things for us, and there are real challenges there as well.  We're in one at the moment in this World Cup and something we'll keep looking to. But it's a longer thing than just now.  So most of the time coaching you get judged overtime and what you end up leaving behind as well as what you do there and then.  So it's a bit of both.   Q.  You said that Alastair's in a good place.  Obviously, he said it might take him quite some time to get over the disappointment of not being here.  Do you think that he's gotten over that now and you feel that your working relationship with him is back on sort of firm footing?  PETER MOORES: Yeah, one of the nicest things is our working relationship never really changed.  That was good.  He's been an international player a long time and understands it's a tough business and things change.  Things changed for him.  He's certainly moved on.  He's thrown his focus totally into now after this World Cup there is a lot of Test Match cricket, a lot of very exciting Test Match cricket, so he's into that.  That's exciting for him.  It's also exciting for me as a coach to know the captain of the Test Match side is in a position where he can be doing some planning and work toward getting ready for it.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT