U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 26, 2003
Fuzzy Zoeller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







FUZZY ZOELLER: I'm ready.  Make them easy on me, gentlemen, please. 

Q.  Talk about how you got to even par today?
FUZZY ZOELLER: I started at par, that's how I got to even par. 

Q.  Was it a journey along the way?
FUZZY ZOELLER: Just starting out.  I didn't start out hitting the ball well.  My 3-wood had a minor virus in it.  Once I accepted the fact that it was not going to cooperate I put it in the bag and start hitting the driver.  That seemed to work pretty good.  Like any open golf course it's always nice to started out with an even par or better.  I made a lot of good shots, from short range and long range.  It's kind of fun to watch that.

Q.  (Inaudible)?
FUZZY ZOELLER: I was trying to help my golf ball.  I couldn't feed off of anything but grass.  It is an Open golf course.  The key to it is keeping your patience and not trying to do too much with the golf ball; just get it on the greens and accept what the golf course gives for you the day.

Q.  How difficult was it out there?
FUZZY ZOELLER: You got a 20-mile-an-hour wind blowing, a 2-club, wind blowing right-to-left, more so than what people are thinking.  I'm sure you will see a lot of shots coming out of the rough, the guys are misjudging the winds.  It's difficult.  But, again, Tom just proved that if you play well and you make the putts you can shoot low. 

Q.  Did the ball carry on No. 1?
FUZZY ZOELLER: After I hit the lip and it came back, yes.  I could have made a hell of a play to first base if I reached just a little kicker.  I could have had that one.  Yes; it was buried.  I had to take notes.

Q.  (Inaudible)
FUZZY ZOELLER: I saw part of it.  The way he putted there is about the way he putted today.  Yes, very similar. 

Q.  I couldn't see the putt on 9?
FUZZY ZOELLER: Well, I'm going up the hill; I didn't think it would break that much.  I tried to put it in the left center of the hole and hit it.  All the way to the hole.  It was out of the hole, you big dummy.  I know the slope is there. Coming from that range, you don't feel it's going to break that much.  I would like to be able to hit them all good.  I don't do it all.  Occasionally.  We do mess up.

Q.  Four-footer?
FUZZY ZOELLER: A three-footer.  You can put any number you want, put any number.  Yes, it was about a 4-footer.

Q.  Rick Rhoden talked about playing defensive golf out there; would you say that is what's required?
FUZZY ZOELLER: Defensive or you call it "accepting par" is I think what it is.  You have to par.  You know it's so difficult to make a lot of birdies.  Especially on these little roly-poly greens and the speed we have them now it's hard to get the ball close to the hole.  So yes, that's kind of defensive golf.
God bless you all.  Hope to see you tomorrow.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT