PAC-12 MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 14, 2019
Murry Bartow
Kris Wilkes
Jaylen Hands
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Arizona State - 83, UCLA - 72   
MURRY BARTOW: Well, like all year, I thought these guys fought their tails off and fought hard, played hard.  The obvious difference in the game was the last four minutes of the first half, and that was the pivotal four minutes of the game.   
But these guys have never wavered, they've never backed down.  They've competed hard, they've played hard.  They've had incredible attitudes.  They fought their tails off every day in practice, and I'm just really proud of them.   
Tonight, playing a really good team, Bobby has done a good job with this team.  And we got off to a little slow start but played pretty well for a stretch.  The last -- like I said, the last four minutes of the first half were pivotal.  We cut it back to one, and then go down 16 at half.  They made a nice run during the half.  It was a big shot there at the end there.  I thought our guys fought their tails off at the second half.  We cut it and we had a chance, but just couldn't get over the hump.   
Kris was phenomenal, Jaylen was phenomenal.  Both of these guys have had great years.  It was a tough loss.  We felt coming in we felt we'd have a chance to be playing on Saturday.  So we're all very disappointed right now.   
 Q.  What do you think went into that run, that 14-0 run they had in the first half?  Was the ball movement just getting better at that point?  
MURRY BARTOW: It was a combination, like most runs are.  But it was a combination of offensively we made some -- maybe some poor plays, had some poor possessions offensively.  And at the other end it was combined with some really good plays by them.   
The ball was moving.  They got things -- they're a very -- they can be a very streaky team.  But they're very dynamic.  And when they get going, they're pretty darn good.  And they just in that stretch really got going.  We missed some opportunities offensively and they maximized some things at the other end, and it just snowballed a little bit on us.  And again, it was a really good game up until that point.   
I thought we had a good halftime.  Had a good talk.  And the guys came out and fought their tails off in the second half, we just couldn't get over the hump.   
 Q.  What does it feel like now for the season to be over?  
JAYLEN HANDS: It hurts, man.  Like Coach said, we've been practicing hard.  We love each other.  So you never want to see something end like that.  It obviously hurts a lot.   
KRIS WILKES: I mean, you just never want to see the season end.  It's over with, and we all hurt.   
 Q.  What was your message to the players in the locker room with this probably being your last game with them?  
MURRY BARTOW: That's tough.  I mean, it's tough to share all that with you.  A lot of that is just kind of between me and the team.   
But really just fact that I'm very proud of them and what they accomplished.  It's been a hard year for them.  We don't have to go through all that, but it's been a tough year for them and our team.   
But I can just say this:  When Duane and Tyus and I took over in early January, they have just -- they've never taken a day off.  They just have never taken a day off.  So I think the message in the locker room from Tyus and Duane and I was just, you know, how much we love them, how much we care for them.  And that's about it.   
 Q.  And do you want the interim tag taken off?  Do you think you've done enough?  
MURRY BARTOW: No, they'll hire another coach.  They'll hire a very good coach, I'm sure, and hopefully there's good days ahead for me.  I'm sure there are.   
But we love coaching them.  They're great young men.  I love them as people.  And they could have quit at times and they just never quit.  They just never quit.   
I think there were a lot of things said about our team, and I look back to Oregon, we're 19 down, they came back and won that game.  We played in three overtime games in the Pac-12; we won all three.   
And these guys just never back down.  They never quit.  And they stuck together.  They're a pretty connected group.  There's good days ahead for UCLA, and there's great days ahead for these guys on this team.  And I enjoyed being with them and coaching them, and Duane was great, Tyus was great, and UCLA will move on, and I'm sure there are better days ahead.   
 Q.  Have you guys made any decisions about your future?  And if not, what will go into those decisions?  
KRIS WILKES: I'm not worried about anything about the future right now.  I'm just trying to stay with my team, stay with them now, and whatever happens happens.   
JAYLEN HANDS: Same here.  I'm in this moment.  And to piggyback on the last question, Coach really thanked us for going hard every day; I want to thank them for going hard every day for us.  I think Coach Bartow is a really good man, and I appreciate all them coming and fighting with us day by day too.   
KRIS WILKES: Most definitely.  It could have been easy for any of them to leave.  Broussard has been with Coach Steve a long time, Tyus and all them, Wes.  But they all stuck with us, and just thankful for that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT