ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
March 14, 2015
Andri Berenger
Mohammad Tauqir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







ANDRI BERENGER: Yes, of course, we are very, very positive coming up to this game.  We have played against a very strong side like India, Pakistan, South Africa.  I think coming into this game we are very positive, confident, and Ireland -- we saw Ireland beating West Indies, it gives us a lot of confidence, and I think we can do that as well tomorrow.Q. I mean, you were talking about your fielding in the previous game.  I guess that is the one aspect that you'd really like to see an improvement.  But is there anything else?  There was some criticism of them maybe not batting as though you want to chase a target and just seeing 50 overs.  Is that something you want to look at more intently in the chase, if you are chasing?ANDRI BERENGER: I think against South Africa also we almost batted 50 overs and then in the previous games also, most of the games we batted 50 overs.  Yes, fielding, I think we've been fielding well until 35, 40 over and then the last three overs I think some tightness comes into that.  But we had a good practice session a good fielding session today, and we would like to end this tournament on a winning note, and everybody's looking forward to this game.Q. The West Indies batting lineup has come in for some criticism from Viv Richards.  Do you see any vulnerability in that batting lineup that you can perhaps exploit tomorrow?ANDRI BERENGER: I think I would say West Indies team is also a very unpredictable side.  They heavily rely on Chris Gayle, so, yeah, we can see some opportunity playing against them tomorrow.  Provided we need to bowl well.  We need to field well and they are a good side but we'd like to see an unpredictable West Indies side tomorrow.Q. One of your bowlers got pretty badly injured in that South Africa game.  I'm guessing he's unable to play.  What will that do to the change in your team and how bad is the injury?ANDRI BERENGER: Yeah, Fahad has been seriously injured, and I think he's gone.  He went back to UAE.  I think he should be reaching today.  We are going to replace him with the one fast bowler, I think we're looking at one change in tomorrow's game compared to previous game.  But I wish him all the best and I think he should recover soon.Q. The West Indies were beaten by Ireland in the first match.  Does that give an indication of perhaps yet another chink in the armor of this West Indian team that you can exploit?MOHAMMAD TAUQIR: Yes, definitely.  I think they're not playing as consistent cricket as they should be, but that's an opportunity for us.  But we need to bowl well.  We need to play very good cricket to beat them.  We know they are a good side, but we need to do our basic stride.  We need to bowl well, bat well, feel well to know.  We have to play a very good cricket to beat them, but I can see that's possible.Q. There is word of a cyclone coming this way.  Have you sort of thought about that at all?  And which cyclone are you more worried about, the rain or Chris Gayle?ANDRI BERENGER: Well, I'm more worried about the weather cyclone because we've got a flight back on Monday morning.  So I think it has been a very long, hectic tour for us.  Although we have enjoyed the whole tournament and this event, but I think it has been very long and we need to go back safely to our homes.  But, yeah, I think tomorrow we hope that Chris Gayle storm does not come to UAE. I think he has done -- he has played a good couple of innings, but I think he has been out of form as well.  So, yeah, we have some plans against him, and we would like to execute those plans well.Q. You talk about the length of the tournament and a bit of fatigue creeping in.  Would you care to reflect on what your personal highlight has been of the Cricket World Cup, and perhaps what your team highlight has been to date?MOHAMMAD TAUQIR: We started the tournament well, the two games against Zimbabwe and Ireland.  I think we had one bad game against India, but I would say even two games against Pakistan and South Africa was a decent performance from our side.  Although it has been a long tournament, but we were getting a few good breaks amongst -- between the games.  But everybody is fit and looking forward to tomorrow's game and to end this tournament on a winning note.Q. In the South Africa game one of the things you said you were surprised about was how the bowlers targeted your batsmen.  West Indies has got some guys that can do something similar in Jerome Taylor or (Indiscernible), what kind of things are you expecting from those bowlers?  Do you think they'll be as aggressive and do you think you guys are better prepared for that?ANDRI BERENGER: With the West Indies have got some good pace attack as well, but I think South African bowlers were in a different league.  I think the bowlers like Flander and Morkle and Stern, they are world class bowlers.  Although they bowled some very hostile bowling attack, and yeah, they were more coveting the batting than the stump. But I think playing almost 50 over against South African attack was a very -- it gave us all a lot of confidence, and it's a big positive for us.Q. What are your thoughts ahead of tomorrow's game?MOHAMMAD TAUQIR: I think we've been practicing positively, and we're looking for a good performance and finishing on a high.Q. Talking about the return to the point about this being the end of the tournament, what are your thoughts about transitioning back into day jobs in many respects for the squad?ANDRI BERENGER: I mean we've been doing that for quite a lot of whiles.  That is just our normal routine.  So once you go back, everybody will be back to work and back to practice.  That's how our lives go.MOHAMMAD TAUQIR: Yeah, our employers are waiting for us.  No, we have Intercontinental Cup ahead of us in July and T20 World Cup qualifying.  So this whole tournament and experience and event has definitely given us a lot of experience and has boosted our experience and confidence.  So once we go back, we will be preparing for these upcoming tournaments.Q. If you don't win tomorrow, would you regard the tournament as less successful perhaps than you may have wanted it to be?  What would define success for you at this event?MOHAMMAD TAUQIR: Yeah, I think of course win is important, but it's not everything.  I think playing good cricket is equally important, and we have been playing good cricket.  I think this is such a game that luck also plays a very, very important role in winning the game.  We had been a bit unlucky and a clear example of that is if you hit a stump and the bell did not come off, that's a very bad luck. No, I think overall the team, all the boys have done extremely well.  Although we wanted to win one or two games, we came very close.  But it couldn't -- it didn't happen.  But we're still looking forward to tomorrow's game and end it on a high.Q. With respect to that point, is it therefore fair to say all of the pressure is on the West Indies tomorrow, and the UAE can play with greater freedom?MOHAMMAD TAUQIR: Yes, definitely.  I think they'll be under pressure of chasing often run rate, and I think it gives us opportunity to play freely and express ourselves either batting or bowling.  West Indies will be under the pressure of getting qualified for the knockout.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT