AMERICAN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 13, 2015
Shaq Goodwin
Josh Pastner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







TEMPLE   - 80
  MEMPHIS   - 75

MODERATOR:   Joining us now from the Memphis Tigers are Head Coach Josh Pastner, junior Shaq Goodwin and junior Kedren Johnson.   Coach, do you have an opening statement on today's game?
COACH PASTNER:   Yep, first off want to congratulate Coach Dunphy on his 500 win, tremendous accomplishment obviously for an outstanding human being and a great coach who I had said earlier in the week which I believe should be in consideration for the Hall of Fame.   Secondly, appreciate all of the hospitality from everyone here, Mr. Aresco, Dan Leibovitz and my man back there, OJ, and his son, so we appreciate you guys and the rest of the American Conference.
Tough game, I mean, I thought our guys, which they've done all year long, have battled from start to finish.   Came up a little short at the end there but there's no question that guys had left it all on the floor and that's all you can ask for.   I thought Cummings had that big play on the floor.   There's two big plays that stick out, Cummings had a big 3 in front of Temple's bench and then he dove on the floor and got that loose ball in that scramble there which resulted in the 50/50 ball which resulted in the 3-point play.   That's why he's a First-Team All-League guy, made some big plays, but I'm so proud of our guys, so proud of Shaq, his improvement throughout the season.   I'm proud of Kedren Johnson, his improvement throughout the season, and tough way to lose, but it was a great basketball game.
MODERATOR:   That, it was.   Questions from the floor?

Q.   Shaq, is there anything you tried to do differently when Jaylen Bond went down with that ankle injury?
SHAQ GOODWIN:   Just really to be more aggressive on the glass.   I was aware that he was one of the top rebounders in the conference so after I seen him go down with the ankle injury, just wanted to be a little bit more aggressive.

Q.   Shaq, not having Austin next to you in the front court, what type of challenges are there for you?
SHAQ GOODWIN:   Well, we all know you can't replace Austin Nichols, but Calvin, when Calvin got free with Nick King, I think they did a good job after Austin went down after the Temple game, I believe it was, it was a struggle without him but I think we did fine picking up his slack.
MODERATOR:   All right, gentlemen.   Thank you so much.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT