ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 4, 2016
MaChelle Joseph
Aaliyah Whiteside
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Louisville - 60, Georgia Tech - 50   
MACHELLE JOSEPH: I think you saw tonight why Myisha is the ACC Player of the Year.  She's a phenomenal talent.  Every big shot, every big play she was a part of.  When they needed a score, when we were making runs at them, it seemed like every time we made a run, she came up with a big play.  That's why she's the ACC Player of the Year.   
But I'm very proud of my team.  We battled every game this year in the ACC against some of the top teams in the country, and you know, we were relentless with our effort, and I'm really pleased with the play of our two seniors, our three seniors, and in particular Aaliyah Whiteside and Roddreka Rogers.  They have just been tremendous leaders for us on and off the floor and they've really helped reestablish the core values in our program, and we feel as though we've got a lot to build on and we have a lot to look forward to.   
 Q.  You guys didn't shoot the ball well.  It was a fight all night with it.  Was it something just the shots weren't falling?  How much of that was their defense?  
MACHELLE JOSEPH: Well, they really put a lot of pressure on you, but I thought we got some good looks.  We just didn't knock them down.  We need Katarina Vuckovic and Antonia Peresson.  They've got -- when they hit those open shots, it gives us a lot of confidence.  We've got to have more than two scorers on the floor.  To beat a top-10 team, you've got to have three to four scorers.  You have to have three to four people in double figures, and it seems like when we look back over the -- I don't know, nine or ten top-10 teams we've played this year, that seemed to be our Achilles heel.  We needed another scorer.  We needed somebody to know down big shots.   
I thought Imani Tilford did a great job of finding our shooters on the three-point line several times, and they just weren't able to knock those down.  I think those shots would have been huge.  They were key.   
 Q.  Aaliyah, what was Louisville doing to kind of make things rough on you, especially in the first half when you struggled a little bit more?  
AALIYAH WHITESIDE: I think I just wasn't being aggressive and they were trying to take me away, catching the ball, but I think second half I just changed and tried to come out more aggressive for the team.   
 Q.  Aaliyah, the match-up with you against Myisha, a lot of the game you were checking each other.  Did you come into tonight looking at that as a personal challenge for you to play against her?  
AALIYAH WHITESIDE: Not at all.  It just happened in the game flow.  She's a really good player, and I thought we battled there for the second half.  It's just good game play in the ACC.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT