DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 20, 2021
Grant Hill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Grant, you played this tournament in the past.  What do you learn from watching the LPGA women and playing with them?
 GRANT HILL:   Yeah, I had the good fortune of playing last year in the tournament, and the great thing is every day we switch in terms of celebrities we're playing with, but most importantly what LPGA golfers we're playing with.
 I think the women, first of all, when I played last year they were unbelievable just in terms of how they approach the course, each shot.  I think just not necessarily being obviously aggressive, being smart, course management.  You know, so much to learn when you watch the pros.
 So to spend four days out there on the course playing with, asking questions, picking up tips here and there, I thought it really helped me understand the game golf, as I'm learning how to play myself.
 Q. And Smoltz is back to back defending champion.  Do you guys harass him and try to dethrone him?  Annika Sorenstam is in the mix this year.  Who do you see as your toughest competition?
 GRANT HILL:   Myself.  No, I mean, look, Smoltz is great.  He's been playing golf for a long time and certainly probably, you know, one of the favorites.
 Obviously Annika Sorenstam is a legend.  Arguably the greatest women's golfers and maybe one of the greatest golfers period of all-time.
 I just started playing a few years ago, so I'm trying to just improve upon my performance from last year and have fun, enjoy the experience, the golf, the competition.  It's really a great tournament and certainly a lot of the fun to be a part of.
 Q. And lastly, obviously you have ties to the Magic in your past.  What does it mean to come back to Orlando?  Any special things you liked to do?
 GRANT HILL:   I live here.
 Q. Oh, okay.  I didn't know that.
 GRANT HILL:   Yeah, I live right down the street.
 Q. So you're home.
 GRANT HILL:   I'm home.  Yep, I'm home.  But it's a great environment, great community, even in the midst of what we're going through with COVID.  Weather is awesome, the time of the year, you know, the accommodations, and then I think all the protocols.
 I think they've been extremely safe and making sure everyone is tested, so there is a level of comfort there as someone who's as athlete, competing.
 But it's a great place certainly this time of year to have it.  Great facility and a great commute from the course for me.
 Q. Awesome.  Thank you so much.
 GRANT HILL:   Thank you.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT