TMS MONTE CARLO
April 22, 2000
Karim Alami
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What was most impressive in Cedric's game today?

KARIM ALAMI: He played very well. He played right, intelligently. He served well with
mixed serves, very high, very slow on the backhand, a lot of mixing like playing on the
forehand, on the backhand, then he went up to the net and sometimes he was staying back
and I was not able to get my rhythm. He was staying in the back. He was going up. It was
disturbing. I couldn't have my rhythm. I didn't serve well which didn't help me.

Q. During the match didn't you feel there was a slight opening, something that could
have bothered him?

KARIM ALAMI: At 3-2 for him I was Love-30, I believe. If I had been able to make 3-All
maybe the story would have been different. But he played better. He was confident and it
was a difficult for me afterwards.

Q. Did you expect such a high quality of game from him?

KARIM ALAMI: At this level of the competition I knew he was going to play well. I
played against him already in Morocco on clay and there we played from the baseline, both
of us, and here, he was going up to the net all the time. He knew he had to do serve and
volley. He won many points that way. The other time we played rather from the baseline. It
was different.

Q. When you stepped onto the court, were you tense?

KARIM ALAMI: No, but I didn't serve well. My serve is an important point in my game and
I believe this was a handicap.

Q. We saw you making gestures showing you were without any power against him. Did you
feel that way?

KARIM ALAMI: I was not able to serve well. He was imposing this mixed serve on me from
his side also. Every time he was going up to the net it was a winner. I was not able to
feel my shots properly. Each time he was going up, he was playing a winner. Every time I
was going up to the net he was passing me. I was trying to find a solution, but.... 

Q. Maybe the solution would have been the fog, if it had been a bit thicker? How were
the conditions of games? It is rare to play with such a fog.

KARIM ALAMI: It is true that it was completely different compared to yesterday where it
was sunshine, but it didn't bother me.

Q. Were you a bit tired because of yesterday's match?

KARIM ALAMI: No, I didn't feel tired. I was tired after Norman and Ruud, but today I
was all right. This morning I woke up and I was surprised, because after the two matches
against Norman and Ruud I was exhausted.

Q. What about now, are you going to continue on your role and still continue to play?

KARIM ALAMI: I will play Barcelona and I will stop one week. Then I will play Hamburg
and Rome and I will stop one week.

Q. At what stage of the match did you really believe it was over for you?

KARIM ALAMI: When I shook hands with him.

Q. There wasn't a moment where you thought it was getting difficult?

KARIM ALAMI: Yes, at 3-Love in the second set he broke me. I was Love-40 and I thought
that I was not even able to win my serve. I thought that things were going to be difficult
for me. In the beginning of the match I didn't believe it would have been such a severe
score. But that is the way it happened.

Q. He bothered him with big kicks on the backhand while serving?

KARIM ALAMI: Yes, that is it. He was playing many kicks on my backhand. He was going up
to the net slowly. He had plenty of time to adjust his volley. What was bothering in his
game is that his toss is the same for serve and volley or for a kick. So I never knew
beforehand what he was going to do. If you step forward he plays a long serve on your
forehand. If you stay back, he plays a kick.

Q. Usually we say about you that you have that type of mixed game. When you play we
never know what to expect.

KARIM ALAMI: That is my game. But I didn't serve well today. I was not able to play my
first serve so I couldn't go up to the net on the second serve. He served well. If I had
served better I would have been able to win more points at the net.

Q. As far as the awareness is concerned Cedric is not so famous internationally than
other players. What do you think of him?

KARIM ALAMI: I don't know what the other players think of him, but personally I
consider him as one of the greatest players. For some time he was among the Top-10. He won
three Grand Prix's. He was in the finals in Wimbledon and did very well at the US Open. He
played maybe ten Finals or more. Maybe he is not as impressive as Agassi, but he is a
complete player. He is present on all kind of surfaces, indoors, clay courts, grass; he
plays everywhere. And for a player of 30 years old, he plays a lot during the year.

Q. Two days ago after your match against Ruud, you said that what you missed was the
mental side for winning?

KARIM ALAMI: I was strong mentally today, but I was not feeling my shots. I think today
is the day when I played the worst of the week. Maybe he made me play bad. If he had
stayed on the baseline I would have had time to feel my shots. But there were many rallies
in two shots serve and volley and even from the baseline two or three shots with the
racket and it was over. It was not really long rallies like Norman and Ruud. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT