TMS MONTE CARLO
April 20, 2000
Karim Alami
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Congratulations. Can you talk a bit about Moroccan tennis in general? It is a
surprise for the whole world, I believe. You are not the only Moroccan tennis players;
there are others. 
 
 KARIM ALAMI: Tennis in Morocco is always the same. There is no real structure to train
correctly; to have a good coach, to buy equipment, to buy balls, et cetera. There are
always problems there. Generally we go to Europe or America to train. Three of us who are
in Morocco, apart from Isham, who was in Paris. There are Moroccan coaches and now, little
by little, tennis rises in Morocco. Kids watch us on TV. They say if he can do it; why not
me. Parents give the possible to the kids to change earlier than six, seven years ago, for
example. 
 
Q. It is not only tennis players in Morocco who have good results. There is also track
and field, running. Do you obtain help from the government? Does the government support
athletes?
 
 KARIM ALAMI: So many kids playing tennis very well and running also. In running we had
extraordinary results. We had Golden Olympic medals, world records, maybe it is easier for
a kid to run than to play tennis. Because in tennis you have to buy shoes, rackets, be a
member of a club, have a coach to practice with. So it is more difficult for a Moroccan to
play tennis than to play football or running. We never had any support from the government
or the sports ministry. It is the parents who helped us and gave us the chance to reach a
higher level. We had results when we were young and we were given chances to continue. I
saw many kids in Morocco between 10 and 12 play very well in tennis. But when they are 14,
school becomes more serious; then they either have to stop or choose tennis. And it is a
difficult choice. There is not a system of sports and studies at the same time like
elsewhere. 
 
Q. When you were a kid did you have a preferred player?
 
 KARIM ALAMI: Lendl, but my game has nothing to do with his. I like very much Noah,
Becker and Lendl, the three players with most personality. Lendl was a serious machine, he
never missed a match. NNoah was a very mixed game. Becker was class on the court, super
shots, very physical. 
 
Q. Did anyone compare your game to the game of Noah?
 
 KARIM ALAMI: Quite often, yes, I was compared to him, but I would be happy with half of
what he has done. 
 
Q. You are going to continue being aggressive and imposing your style?
 
 KARIM ALAMI: The day I won't be able to impose my game I will stop playing tennis. This
is how my game is. I attack. I enjoy it that way. Sometimes it doesn't work. By imposing
an aggressive game I please myself. I can have a great fun on the court. I can try very
different shots. Many things that are unusual. I don't have a strict game like a Spanish
player. I need to do a bit of everything. 
 
Q. Next round you might have to change your style; especially if you play an aggressive
player like Krajicek. 
 
 KARIM ALAMI: No doubt that with Krajicek there will not be long rallies. 
 
Q. Well, the match has not been played yet. It is not sure Krajicek will win.
 
 KARIM ALAMI: Yes, I know. I am just mentioning Krajicek like that. We adapt to the
player we have across the net. If you have to stay on the baseline you get bored; you do
not please yourself, but if it is necessary for winning, you do what you have to. You can
do it for two hours. 
 
Q. But after having played two players who played defensive and were returning the
shots all the time, it will be a different game?
 
 KARIM ALAMI: Yes, I must do what I have to win. I must impose my game and that should
be all right. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT