TMS - LISBON
November 29, 2000
Magnus Norman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Questions for Magnus.  
 
Q. You lost 11 points in a row in the beginning of the third set. How do you explain
that?
 
 MAGNUS NORMAN: Yeah, well, what can I say? I thought I had a good chance to win the
match. I was just a couple of points away, perhaps just one point away. I had my chances
in the second set. I was very disappointed to lose the second set. That's why I think I
lost so many points in the beginning of the third set.  
 
Q. Coming back to the second set, after two breaks, one for each side, you had four
breakpoints. What happened? You couldn't convert any of them. 
 
 MAGNUS NORMAN: No. Perhaps I got too passive, a little bit too passive. I was playing
very aggressive up to the breakpoints, very good. But when the breakpoint came, I was just
-- you know, I didn't take the risk that I need to do here in the Masters. It's the best
players in the world. I mean, you got to take risks, otherwise you going to lose. That's
what happened.  
 
Q. The public, your opinion about them, about the support?
 
 MAGNUS NORMAN: It's good. I like the pavilion. If I compare it to other tournaments,
it's a very good tennis facility. I really like the stadium. The crowd was very good, even
though it was 4:00, the first match. There was a lot of people. Really nice atmosphere.  
 
Q. The next game, how it's going to be?
 
 MAGNUS NORMAN: It's going to be tough. I mean, I play Kuerten, I think, in the next
round. You know, we both lost our first matches. I think we both want to win very much.
Every time we play against each other, it's always a good fight. It's always a good - how
do you say - always good tennis. I'm looking forward for tomorrow.  
 
Q. What present will you ask Santa Claus for Christmas? 
 
 MAGNUS NORMAN: Well, I haven't really thought about that yet. It's still a lot of
tennis to play this year. Actually, my two biggest matches in my career to play. I'm
trying to focus as much as possible on these two matches. When the tournament is over, you
know, I will think about Christmas.  
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT