US OPEN
September 1, 2000
Magnus Norman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions for Magnus.  
 
 
Q.  After Gstaad you had a little bit of quite not Magnus Norman tennis, but you're back. 
 
MAGNUS NORMAN:  Yeah, think I found my game last week in Long Island.  I went there to defend my title.  Everything went perfect that week.  I feel great this week, even though I haven't played a hundred percent here yet, I haven't dropped a set, but I think I have a little bit left to a hundred percent.  I'm happy with the way things are going. 
 
Q.  What do you think happened after Gstaad?
 
MAGNUS NORMAN:  Well, it's difficult.  I played a lot of tennis.  I played on this level the whole year (indicating high).  Suddenly it dropped a little bit and you're going to lose to guys normally you should beat.  In this game you have to be a hundred percent, otherwise your opponent is going to take advantage of it. 
 
Q.  How do you get refreshed?
 
MAGNUS NORMAN:  By practicing, having a decent schedule.  I haven't played too much.  I played Toronto, Cincinnati, had a week off, went down to Florida again, tried to recoup, practice again, played some golf.  I had my family there, my mother and brother were there.  My mother was cooking some dinners for me, homemade, you know.  Those things help.  You get sort of in the right direction again, ready to go.  
 
Q.  You're the top seed remaining in the draw.  Is that a little more pressure than you want at this point?
 
MAGNUS NORMAN:  No, absolutely not.  I mean, there are great guys left in the tournament.  We are just in the third round.  Every match is going to be tough from now.  I have a tough draw now.  I have a lot of good players on my side of the draw.  I have to play better than I did today to be able to win again. 
 
Q.  Are you surprised that you're the top remaining seed after two rounds?
 
MAGNUS NORMAN:  Not really.  I mean, perhaps I thought Guga would be.  He's been playing good this hard court season.  I thought he would be very hot this tournament.  He got a tough draw in the first round.  Andre, he's been on and off.  He had some personal problems, which I understand, you know.  It's a very difficult moment for him right now perhaps.  The competition is so tough, so it doesn't matter if you're seeded or not. 
 
Q.  Have you had a family crisis in the way he's having that you can relate to?
 
MAGNUS NORMAN:  No, not at all.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT