DU MAURIER CLASSIC
August 11, 2000
Laura Philo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 LAURA PHILO: I hit 7-iron into the green, four feet. 
 
Q. Which hole? 
 
 LAURA PHILO: 5. 13, I hit 5-iron four feet. 14, I hit 5-wood into the green and
2-putted. It was about 30 feet. I bogeyed 15. I 3-putted, I hit 5-wood into the green.
7-iron 10 feet. I 3-putted 17 after hitting 8-iron. And I birdied 18, it was about 25
feet; I hit wedge. 
 
Q. Sounds like you were having a little fight with your putter down the stretch.
 
 LAURA PHILO: Not really. It was more the shots into the green. They were all long, very
long putts, over 60 feet. They were front of the green to back pins, so I wouldn't really
consider that -- I mean that's not necessarily a fight with your putter, that's more of
your approach shot. 
 
Q. Both of the 3-putts were both 60 feet?
 
 LAURA PHILO: Yeah, they were big.  
 
Q. Is this the best you've stood in one of the majors this year at this stage of the
tournament?
 
 LAURA PHILO: Yes, considering I've only played one other major. 
 
Q. Which was?
 
 LAURA PHILO: McDonald's. So I was not -- I wasn't at Nabisco, and I wasn't at the Open. 
 
Q. So how many majors have you played in your career?
 
 LAURA PHILO: I played du Maurier last year. I played McDonald's last year. And that
would make this, what, four, I guess. This is my fourth. 
 
Q. Do you feel like you're hitting your stride a little bit, feeling more comfortable
out on Tour, kind of like you know where you're going now?
 
 LAURA PHILO: Yeah, I feel pretty comfortable right now. I've been playing pretty well
the last four or five weeks, and I feel good. 
 
Q. Annika was in here a while ago, and she said she thought it was a good day for
scoring.
 
 LAURA PHILO: It was a great day. 
 
Q. Did you get as much out of the round out there?
 
 LAURA PHILO: No, I missed a 2-foot putt for birdie. 
 
Q. Which hole?
 
 LAURA PHILO: 11. And the 3-putts were -- I probably hit it up to six or seven feet both
times. I could have made those; but like I said, it was more of the approach shot. So just
maybe one or two shots out there. It was very calm and the greens are rolling good. Like
Lorie said, we had a real long day yesterday, so it was nice to get out before the rain,
possibly, that might be coming. 
 
Q. What are the strengths of your game?
 
 LAURA PHILO: I think everything is just about the same, to tell you the truth. I'm
putting good right now. So that's -- I think that's the key, no matter what else you do
well. But I'm definitely putting better than I've probably ever putted. 
 
Q. And who do you work with on your putting?
 
 LAURA PHILO: I have about three instructors. My father, Ron Philo, Sr., Is my main
instructor; and I have my brother, Ron Philo, Jr., And my fiance, Kevin Diaz. At any given
point, I can call on any of them. 
 
Q. And you always listen to what your fiance tells you?
 
 LAURA PHILO: Kevin really doesn't say as much. He's not real comfortable yet. I always
listen to what my father says, no matter what. And if I ask Kevin, I'll listen to what he
has to say, because I'm the one asking the question. But my father is more of the one who
has the biggest impact on my game. 
 
Q. What's Kevin's last name?
 
 LAURA PHILO: Diaz, D-i-a-z. 
 
Q. When is the wedding?
 
 LAURA PHILO: November 25th. 
 
Q. He doesn't say much?
 
 LAURA PHILO: He doesn't say much, no. My father has taught me for 20 years, so it's
pretty hard to get involved in that situation. For me I just -- I want him to get more
involved, because there's going to be a time when my father is not around. 
 
Q. Is he here? Does he caddy?
 
 LAURA PHILO: No. 
 
Q. What are the keys to your father's teaching?
 
 LAURA PHILO: Golf is a target sport. That's basically our main philosophy. And
everything kind of goes from there. The short game is where we start, and then we work
from there. The short game is where you score. So we teach the angle and then teach -- it
works into the full swing. 
 
Q. And when you were growing up, did he just -- as far as the long game was concerned,
what did he tell you?
 
 LAURA PHILO: Just let me hit it. We owned a driving range and miniature golf when I was
a kid, so it was a family-run business. I was always out there just playing around. And my
swing just kind of evolved from that. 
 
Q. There haven't been a lot of Americans in here, other than North Americans, Canadian
Americans. Do you feel any pressure, or have you felt any pressure to sort of step up,
with Kelly Kuehne? You and Kelly Kuehne and those guys sort of have been the next batch of
young Americans to come in, and I just wondered if you felt any pressure.
 
 LAURA PHILO: No, I don't feel any pressure. I'm American, yeah, but we're all out here
trying to win a golf tournament. And personally, in my opinion, it all comes down to
winning the golf tournament. It's great that I represent the USA, and I'm very proud of
that, but I just want to win a golf tournament. 
 
Q. How close do you think you are to achieving that goal?
 
 LAURA PHILO: I think I saw it flash before my eyes, and I'm ready to not see it flash
anymore, for it to be real. I think it's right there. 
 
Q. When did you see it flash before your eyes?
 
 LAURA PHILO: Two weeks ago in Youngstown. 
 
Q. And for those of us who weren't following Youngstown --?
 
 LAURA PHILO: I was tied going into the last hole, and I double bogeyed. 
 
Q. How much did that hurt, Laura?
 
 LAURA PHILO: You know, I didn't know at the time that I was tied, so it really didn't
hurt until I made the last putt, the second putt, and I looked at the score board. It was
tough, but the more times I put myself in position, the better off I'll be the next time.
Although it was a tough learning experience, it was a learning experience. And I made a
big putt last week on the last hole for a par, and that kind of erased that 6 at
Youngstown for me. So just a growing experience. 
 
Q. Why didn't you know what the state of play was?
 
 LAURA PHILO: Because -- just like today, I couldn't tell you what's leading right now,
either. I know I'm in here, but I don't know what that means. I don't pay attention. It
doesn't matter until I've putted out on that 54th or that 72nd hole.  
 
Q. So if you looked -- you could have looked. It was just you didn't choose to look?
 
 LAURA PHILO: That's right. I didn't choose to look, but when I did ask in the middle of
the 18th hole that day, nobody knew. My caddy didn't know, and I didn't know. 
 
Q. What's on your hat?
 
 LAURA PHILO: Keebler. It's a cookie and cracker company, second largest company in the
United States.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT