NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v CANUCKS
June 7, 2011
Gregory Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Gregory Campbell. 
 GREGORY CAMPBELL: We were forcing turnovers, moving our feet, challenging the D. Every time they have a power-play, we have to respect it. They have extremely good players. 
 We did a good job last night, but that's only one game. 
 As a penalty kill, we've been working hard. As a power-play unit, I think it's more of trying to go out there and score. Penalty kill you have to respect the power-play a little bit more because they're trying to make plays. 
 We were aggressive last night, but I don't think we were aggressive in a way that was dangerous, that allowed them chances from our aggressiveness. I think we have to stick with that, but also realize that they have the capability of switching things up. They had a lot of options on that. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 GREGORY CAMPBELL: Absolutely. You have to be smart at reading things. You have to have good angles. I think as a penalty kill unit, it's okay to take chances. We did a good job of using our speed to get turnovers. 
 Killing penalties is a funny thing. Sometimes you can be doing everything right as far as a game plan and goals are still scored. There was a goal the other night that Burrows scored, broken play, found its way in. 
 I think we've been working hard the entire playoffs. Big challenges. This is another challenge. Scoring two shorthanded goals will get you noticed. 

 Q. Are you sensitive at all about the job that Mike and your dad have had?
 GREGORY CAMPBELL: Absolutely. It's not an easy job. You're dealing with injuries sometimes and you're also dealing with taking a player out of a series that they've worked their whole lives to get to that point. It's a no-win job. 
 I try to separate myself from that because it's not really my place and it's not my job. I dealt with it in my career because that's the nature of it, it's my dad. But having been up front and seeing some of the decisions he has to make, yeah, it's not an easy job, but that's the job they take. 

 Q. Seems to me there's a fine line between what is entertainment, what is good hockey, what is cheap. 
 GREGORY CAMPBELL: Yeah. It's such a fast game now, not to say there wasn't injuries dating back. I think now the awareness of the injuries is what has brought the attention on these hits. It's such a fast game now, things happen quickly, players are so strong. 
 It's unfortunate that the game has to deal with this. Kind of taken on a life of its own. It's tough to try to make everybody happy. It's almost impossible. 
 But I think the players are doing a good job, and that's important. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT