LPGA Q-SERIES
November 2, 2019
Muni He
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You had another terribly consistent round again. What was the emotion out there? What did it feel like? Did you feel any stress at all?
MUNI HE: Honestly, I'm sure today was a little bit more stressful than all the other days, but it wasn't bad at all. I think just trying to keep the same mentality out there.
But, yeah, the back nine was a little rough. Not sure if it was an energy drop off because we've been playing for so many days or maybe like unconsciously I was thinking a lot. I don't think so.
Yeah, I think it's just challenging in general. Yeah.
Q. What did you learn about yourself these two weeks? You had every round under par, which is pretty phenomenal.
MUNI HE: Thank you. I think I've learned that my game is enough for me to build upon and I shouldn't be changing it just to fit the tour ideal, I guess.
I've also learned like what's the best mentality for me to compete under. So instead of really stressing about something, just staying relaxed is probably the best thing I can do for myself. Yeah.
Q. It's been a long two weeks. Is there a little bit of a break in the future for you before thinking about next year?
MUNI HE: Yeah, for sure. I mean, I'm glad that it's off-season; I'll probably take some time off. I'm sure I'll still play golf, but maybe just for fun. Not to practice or anything. I'm sure maybe I'll play left-handed for a little bit and see how that goes. (Laughter.)
Q. Like seriously? Fun golf?
MUNI HE: Yeah.
Q. You do that every once in a while?
MUNI HE: I love fun golf.
Q. Left-handed golf?
MUNI HE: I do. So I just started playing left-handed recently and it's been really fun.
Q. Fascinating. Are you any good?
MUNI HE: I'm just happy to see the ball up in the air really. I think that's the best part about it, you know. You're just happy to see the ball. Yeah.
Q. Any other hobbies?
MUNI HE: Sure, I have lots of hobbies. I really enjoy surfing. I picked up surfing like a year ago. I haven't been able to during the season because I sprained my ankle twice doing that in the off-season last year, so it's probably not the smartest thing.
But I'm sure just seeing friends and maybe travel a little bit. Yeah, just things like that.
Q. I just have one more. Winning this thing, what does that do for you confidence-wise? And you held the lead for so long. Slept on the lead a lot.
MUNI HE: I think more than winning it, just being able to shoot consistently under par in really not that easy conditions just proved to myself that I can do this and I can be consistent.
I think consistency was something I was really striving for throughout the year. So towards later on in the year I had some really good rounds, but it was hard to keep it consistent. Now that I've proved to myself that, Hey, I can do this, I think it's really good to build upon for next year.
Q. What you do you think was most different about these? Two weeks than maybe what it was like during your rookie seen?
MUNI HE: I think I've matured a lot mentally. So versus going into every round feeling a little hectic and not knowing what to expect, now I know what to expect and how to control my emotions and just understand myself. Yeah, understand myself a little more.
Q. And how do you hope to maybe take this momentum and keep it going into next year?
MUNI HE: You know, yeah, I hope that I just take some time off and, you know, keep just feeling good in general. Hopefully starting next year I would have seen the course once before, so it'll be really nice to be able to revisit them and hopefully feeling like, wow, I'm feeling a lot less anxious than last year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT