HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 21, 2018
Muni He
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You just turned pro and you play on the Symetra Tour now.
MUNI HE: Yes.
Q. How is life as a professional treating you?
MUNI HE: Well, it's been really great so far.  This is my second week as a professional golfer, second event as a professional golfer, and I'm having so much fun.
It's a great tournament to be at and a great tournament for me to start out my year.  I'm very excited to be here.
Q. You're a big star on social media, a great big following.  How has that grown for you, and is it nice to have the support of your fans around the world?
MUNI HE: It's really amazing to have the support.  I never thought that my social media would grow to be what it is today.  I really just started out for fun, just like everyone else's social media.
But it's really motivating to know that I have people supporting me from all over the world.
Q. Who do you look up to in golf?  Who are your golf idols, and why?
MUNI HE: I think a lot of the girls on tour are my idols.  It's just I know how hard it is out here and how tiring it is to travel and play tournament after tournament.  Seeing these girls around me doing this week after week and being able to do so well, it's really motivating.
So I would say I can't really narrow it down to one or two.  More like a lot of these girls are my idols.
Q. Is it still kind of surreal that you're next to them on the putting green?
MUNI HE: It definitely is.  Turning pro just hasn't really hit me yet.  Still feel like a little girl who is just out here and trying to learn and grow, which is I think what I am.
So it's very unreal to able to practice and play next to these girls that I've always looked up to.
Q. I know this is your first time at Siam Country Club.
MUNI HE: Yes.
Q. What are your thoughts on this golf course and being here in Thailand to compete?
MUNI HE: It's a beautiful golf course and it's in such great condition.  The course is very challenging, but I think it's a great course to host an event.  I can't wait to play it since it's in such great condition.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT