OMEGA DUBAI LADIES CLASSIC
December 6, 2017
Muni He
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  1-under, your first professional round, how would you describe your first professional round?  
MUNI HE: I think it went pretty smoothly.  I was just kind of able to play my own golf.  I had a lot of fun out there.  I think I had a lot of really good chances out there that I missed.  That's okay.  It just means there's room for improvement.  I'm pretty happy.   
 Q.  How many shots do you think you left out there?  
MUNI HE: You know, what because I write down all the birdies that I missed.  Seems like within like six yards today, I missed one, two, three, four, five, six -- six.   
 Q.  Six birdie chances?  
MUNI HE: Yeah, but of course, you can never have the perfect round.  But yeah, six birdies, that's what I missed.   
 Q.  Do you feel any extra pressure of playing professionally?  
MUNI HE: I think I was a bit nervous before going out there today just because I came from Stage 3 and I didn't really perform too well there.  You know, I obviously got in last night, so knowing that today was my first professional round, I did feel a little bit of nervousness going through me.   
 Q.  Is there any particular reason for choosing Dubai to turn professional?  
MUNI HE: I was here last year, and I think it's such a wonderful tournament and it's such a good experience.  Having this tournament right after third stage, I thought it would be a great opportunity to come back and return as a professional this year.   
 Q.  What are your goals for 2018?  
MUNI HE: I am planning on playing Symetra.  So my goal is just to get through it and be able to get my card by the end of the year and better my game.   
 Q.  Whom do you admire as a golfer?  
MUNI HE: Shanshan obviously, in every way possible, as a person and as a player, yeah.   
 Q.  What do you think of the general standard of golf in China?  
MUNI HE: I think it's growing but it obviously is very hard because there's not that many golf courses in China, and competition, as well.   
So I think it will grow eventually but I'm very happy to see obviously Shanshan just became the first world No. 1 that's Chinese.  So it's something for me to work towards and very motivating.   
 Q.  When did you actually think that this is the time to turn professional?  
MUNI HE: Well, last year here, it definitely didn't cross my mind, but I think it became a topic throughout the year and I think I knew it was something that I really wanted to do and saw myself doing.   
So going to Q-School this year at the beginning was just to tryout.  I think I'm very excited for next year.   
 Q.  How did you come to golf?  Who introduced you?  
MUNI HE: My dad.  My dad's a huge golfer.  I grew up on a golf course, so I might not have played when I was three years old but I was all around it.   
 Q.  Where do you live?  
MUNI HE: I live in Los Angeles, California.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT