U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 3, 2016
Muni He
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What an amazing match.  Just talk about that a little bit.
MUNI HE: Yeah, for sure.  I think it is a little unexpected considering I haven't really been performing my best this week.  But today I stood out there in the playoff, to get in really, I felt a lot better about my game, whether it was my putting, my stroke, or my shots in general, and I think that's what kept the momentum going, made everything going for today.
Q. Let's talk about the actual holes today; you both were playing amazing.
MUNI HE: Yeah, for sure.
Q. The second hole you both missed the green.  Were you feeling a little nervous?
MUNI HE: Yeah, well, that's a fairly long hole for me in general.  I had 200 in with wind against me, so I took out my 3-wood.  There's nothing really I could do other than try to get it on the green, and that was my goal.  It went a little long, but it was okay in general.
And I think she hit a really, really good shot, but I just happened to have like a little hill, a little back.  But that chip, it was tougher than I imagined.  Like when I was walking over there, I thought it wasn't going to be as tough, but it was pretty tricky.  If my chip would have rolled like a little bit more, it would have been the perfect chip, but I left myself a really tough putt, and she chipped it really well.  So I thought, well, there's nothing really else I could do than just go for it, really.  I went for it and hoped for the best, and who knew, it went in.
Q. Then the next hole she gave you a decent-sized putt.
MUNI HE: Yeah.
Q. Were you surprised she gave you that?
MUNI HE: Well, you know, actually throughout the whole match, we were kind of giving each other reasonable putts.  I know she's a great putter, so I believed in her.  I knew she could make three-footers with her eyes closed.  She's a great putter.
Q. And then this last one here to win it?
MUNI HE: I mean, my goal was really just to roll it near the hole because it's not an easy putt.  It's a pretty slopey putt and a very decent break, but I just kind of had a target in mind and putted it toward there and let it roll near the hole.  It just happened to go in.
Q. I mean, you played a playoff this morning to get in.
MUNI HE: Yes, for sure.  Yeah, I really didn't have much expectations.  Like I said, my game this week wasn't exactly what I hoped it would be the first two days at least.
Q. Did you feel like kind of an underdog heading into it?
MUNI HE: Yeah, for sure.  I'm good friends with Mariel and I knew that she's a great player, and she's obviously on top of her game this week.  Coming in, I wasn't exactly feeling great about my game just because of how everything turned out.  But yeah, just why not, it's all or nothing.  It's match play.  It's very unpredictable.
Q. Now after all these holes, I'm assuming you feel a lot better about your game?
MUNI HE: Yeah, definitely a little more confidence.  I think it might be a turning point, who knows.  But match play is very exciting.  It always gets your adrenaline pumping, and it's a lot of fun, so we'll see what happens.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT