U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2015
Muni He
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  What do you take away from this week and this experience?  MUNI HE: It's unbelievable.  It's my first Open, not to mention pro LPGA event.  I had lots of fun and I learned lots of stuff, from course management or actually how to handle everything.  I've learned a lot and I'm just very happy to be here.   Q.  The goal obviously, first of all, was to make the cut.  You made that and then low amateur, which you are still actually in the running for?  MUNI HE: For sure it was on my mind, but I just tried to come out here and do my best today even though I knew I had a chance, I was close.   Q.  Did you have a number in mind?  MUNI HE: Yeah, we were going for somewhere around even or 1 to 2-under, around there.  Things weren't too consistent today.  Birdie, boggy, felt like a roller costar.  Overall, I did hit some good shots and good putts, so pretty happy with that.   Q.  What do you take away from this week?  You also were in the fourball?  MUNI HE: Oh, yeah, the fourball.  All USGA events are very fun, they make it very professional.  Definitely I learned a lot from playing Pacific Dunes as in course management.  I learned a lot, how to leave your ball in the right position and how to play a links style course and that was very fun.  Same with here, it's a lot about course management.   Q.  Were you able to draw on that experience this week?  MUNI HE: Yeah, for sure.  Well, USGA events are always great, very exciting.  It feels completely different though.  The fourball was nothing like the U.S. Open.  The crowd here is just amazing.   Q.  8-over, are you disappointed but still --  MUNI HE: Yeah, I mean, I just felt like there have been a lot of holes or a lot of shots where I could have done better, a lot of silly mistakes.  But that's golf.  In general, I'm still very happy with the way that I played.   Q.  What can the leaders and the final groups expect to see down the stretch here?  MUNI HE: A lot of tough pin placements, a lot of very tilted hole locations and a lot of tee boxes have moved, so a lot shorter holes that they are going to be able to play a lot more aggressively.  It's sure going to be really fun to watch.   Q.  Should you end up as low amateur, what would that mean to you?  MUNI HE: I mean, that would just be the cherry on top.  I'm just very happy to make the cut.  Being the low Am wasn't really on my mind coming into the tournament since it's my very first time.  But that would be truly amazing.  There are a lot of good players out there, a lot of good amateurs out there.   Q.  You are second right now?  MUNI HE: You never know  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT