U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2015
Muni He
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Talk a little bit about your round, first of all.  MUNI HE: First of all I'm just very, very blessed to hopefully have made the cut.  That was my goal coming into the tournament.  I didn't really have any expectations, just blessed to be here.  I just wanted to learn from all the players. But today everything is going great.  I was finishing yesterday's round, and even for most of the front nine for up to the second round and then I fell into a slump.  It's hard to get out.  This is a tough course.  Once you're wobbling, and you're not hitting it straight, it really grabs you. And I think on the back nine today my putting just wasn't -- I couldn't see the line as clearly as I was seeing it earlier today and yesterday. But overall I'm still happy with how I played, just minor things here and there.  And hopefully I'll do better this weekend.   Q.  Is it a matter of keeping things from snowballing when things start to go bad?  MUNI HE: Yeah, definitely.  You really just try to grab on and shake it off and get back to it.  But sometimes it's hard, especially when the course, it's really tough with thick rough and very, very tilted greens.  You get one bad break and the next thing you know a lot are coming at you.  And you have to shake it off and it's hard.  But I think in general I'm still happy with how I played.   Q.  You've got two other juniors coming up?  MUNI HE: Yeah.   Q.  How does this help prepare you for it?  MUNI HE: Oh, I mean I've learned so much already.  I played with Inbee Park in the practice round, and just seeing great players out here and seeing how patient they are and how they take on such a tough course.  It definitely prepares me mentally.  And I think I've grown already just from watching them play.   Q.  When you played yesterday, what did you take what you learned yesterday into today's round.  Yesterday's was better, but still --  MUNI HE: It's all about staying in the fairway, I think.  One of my problems today was I wasn't hitting my drives too straight.  I would get a bunch of bad hits into these really thick roughs and it's hard to get out. But yesterday the one thing that I did really well was keeping it in the fairway and on the greens, which is pretty much what you want to try to do here.   Q.  The conditions from going afternoon, morning, did that affect you?  MUNI HE: There's definitely a bigger crowd in the morning, that's for sure.  Not that it's a bad thing or anything.  I feel a lot of love and support coming from the crowd.  It's very, very cool hearing people shouting your name and telling you to keep going or to finish strong.  It's very cool.  It doesn't really bother me too much either way.  It's about playing your own golf, I think.  And in the end that's all that matters.   Q.  You talk about not seeing the lines, explain that a little bit.  MUNI HE: Some days I tend to see the ball go in a lot more, it's all about visualization for me.  And if it's a little off and I can't seem to commit to a line it tends to be a little tougher.   Q.  Does it get scary at that point?  MUNI HE: No, it doesn't.  It's definitely a lot easier when you're on a roll and you see your line, you see your ball going in all the time.  But when you don't see it, all I try to do is to find it again and hopefully to keep it going.   Q.  You say that started on the back nine today?  MUNI HE: Yeah, definitely about the 8th hole, 8, 9, I just couldn't really -- I had a couple of bad breaks here and there where I couldn't really understand the lines.  There were actually a few putts where I misread it completely, but overall I'm not too upset with my putting, because I feel like I am stroking it well.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT