LPGA Q-SERIES
November 1, 2019
Muni He
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. First off, I kind of just interrupted something there. How cute was that? Explain what just happened there.
MUNI HE: So cute. So little girl came up and, well, she just wanted a picture. But it's so special to see someone so young be into golf and be competing.
I think a lot of us girl out here, we all started golfing at that age and competing, so it's so cool to see. Brings back a lot of good memories.
Q. So today was a little bit different out there. Drastic change in weather a lot of people had to deal with mentally, and also with your clubs. How do you think you were able to go through that obstacle?
MUNI HE: I think it's all about adapting, but definitely the conditions were quite different today. It dropped, I don't know, 20 degrees or something like that. Yeah, very, very cold.
The course played a lot longer today. I think, like I said, it was just trying to hit fairways and greens and be consistent throughout the round.
Q. You had an incredible bogey-free streak going there until think No. 15 I was told.
MUNI HE: Right.
Q. Did you think about that at all as you were playing today?
MUNI HE: It's funny, because walking up to that hole I was thinking about it, which is very ironic. Just proves I shouldn't be overthinking. It was just a little unfortunate, because I came up just short and got caught in the rough and my ball was right behind an ant hill and it was hard for me to stand.
I still stayed committed to my shot, and, yeah, it was just a little bit of bad luck. I think could have been avoided, but it happens. I think it would be incredible if I had four days all bogey-free, but I'm not too mad about it at all.
Q. There is one more day left out here. It's been a marathon, a grind. Is there a sense of relief that it's almost over?
MUNI HE: I think so. I think the first week went by super quickly, and this week, it's been a little slower. But that's okay. I think we're all really enjoying it out here.
Yeah, not too stressed out, but I'm really glad that it's coming to an end. Eight rounds, that's a lot golf.
Q. What's it like tomorrow possibly being around a ceremony and being able to be named possibly the medalist of this compared to where you were last year?
MUNI HE: I think if anything, it just really proves to myself how much I've improved as a golfer throughout this past year. I'm really proud of myself for sticking through some of the struggles and obstacles earlier in the year and coming out and improving on it.
But medalist would be really, really nice. It's not something I'm really stressed out about. I think obviously the main goal was to get my tour card full status for next year. I'm happy and content, so that would be a bonus for sure.
Q. (In progress.)
MUNI HE: Sure, yeah. I think going into my rookie year I didn't really know what to expect. You know, I've had friends and team mates that went on to the LPGA the year before, and a lot of them end up losing their cards. And they're such great players.
So in a way I kind of looked at it and was like, Wow, yes, like they're such great players and they lost their card. Is it really at that hard? It can't be that hard. I was really questioning that. But for sure it's so hard to expect something when you've never experienced it. I've never experienced competition at that level consistently. I had a lot to learn, which I think it just took me some time to adjust.
I had a lot to learn about my own game and who I was as a player. Like how I could have the best results in terms of how I practice, how I play, and even just my daily routine as a professional golfer. It takes some time to adjust.
So I definitely missed a lot of cuts at the beginning of the year. It was really challenging for me mentally. Now that I've kind of overcome that and have it a little more figured out, I look back and I'm like, Okay, I'm really glad I went through that. I needed to go through it. I needed that learning curve to know what's best for me.
Obviously going through it at the time was really, really challenging.
Q. Because you were learning how to travel, balance.
MUNI HE: Exactly.
Q. You have a lot of expectations on you.
MUNI HE: Right. So I think it's a lot more than just playing good golf. There is so much more that comes with the lifestyle of being an LPGA golfer. It's more than other people's expectations of you. Like you can really get into your own head. You can really judge yourself when you don't have a good round out there or a good tournament.
It can get into a downward spiral that you don't really want. It's just a part of the process. I think once I learned to really accept that it started to get better.
Q. I know one of the things that's unique about you and what you've been doing on tour as well is a heightened sense of social media presence, too.
MUNI HE: Right.
Q. There are so many younger golfers and so many younger people kind of trying to delve into that world as well. What was that like for you this year, the balance between realizing that you could use your social media presence to your advantage, but also prove to the world that, you know, I am a professional golfer, and I want to show people that side as well?
MUNI HE: Right. It's so funny, because this is something that I've talked about a lot with my friends and family and people who know me. So before I really had Instagram and had social media, I was just like every other junior golfer. Golf was the priority in my life. I competed a lot.
And then once I started to gain a social media following there were some doubts out there definitely. I felt like people were saying, Oh, you know -- just judging off Instagram. She's not really a professional golfer.
But, you know, like it can get to me, but at the end of the day, as long as I know like what's going on and how hard I'm working, I think that's all that matters.
But I don't really get so much of that anymore. I think regardless of some of my bad results earlier this year, I do think I've had some rounds this year which kind of shut a lot of the haters down. So I'm glad that I receive a lot of support on social media, but it's always hard, because social media is so vague and such a visual platform where people can only judge and assume based off the pictures you post. They don't really know who you are as a person. They don't know the background to your story, which is totally he understandable.
But, you know, I think at the end of the day it's just about portraying whatever you want to do, whatever makes you happy. You shouldn't be stressed too much about other people's opinion.
Thankfully I've had a lot of good support on social media, and I'm just really happy that people are even following me. Yeah, it's pretty cool.
Q. Do you have set rules for yourself during competition not to look at comments, or like how do you find balance in that?
MUNI HE: I think I tend to post less in competition. Not on purpose, just because sometimes I'm a little busy.
But I try not to set rules just because I feel like I should treat competition as a part of my life. If I overthink it a little too much or if I put too much emphasis on, okay, this week is extremely important or special, then maybe that will give myself too much pressure.
In a way, posting on social media is just a part of life. I try to see everything from a very like nonstressful way. Yeah, but comments, as for comments, I don't read the comments too much. I don't have my notification on for social media, so that helps. I only see what I want to see.
Yeah, just learning how to only take in what you want to take in and block out what you don't want to. Yeah.
Q. Would you have changed anything? Like as you were coming out onto the tour and practicing and playing consistency, is there anything that you would've changed now looking back?
MUNI HE: No. Yes and no. I think right now ultimately I would go with no, because it's good to have those experiences so now I know what's best for me and what doesn't work for me.
Sure, if I had it my perfect way I think I would've tried to not really put so much emphasis on changing my game to fit LPGA. More about just improving my game and being the best golfer that I am versus trying to go out of my way and thinking I need to completely change my game to fit the tour.
You know, just things like that. I'm glad I experienced because now I know. Maybe if I didn't go through that, later on down the road I would eventually struggle because I've never learned my lesson. Yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT