LPGA Q-SERIES
October 31, 2019
Muni He
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You're feeling it now, but there is a lot of gusts out here today that came through. What was that like?  
MUNI HE: Honestly, it wasn't too bad. I think as long as you keep it in the fairway and on the green you're just fine.   
It actually did make putting very challenging today because the greens are so soft and it gets so stepped on. On top of that, when you have gusts of wind, I think the ball can just take any grain and any bumps and run away from your line.   
 Q.  When you have such a lead like when you started today, do you have to get over hole like I can just coast? Is it more about continuing the grind? Is there some sort of mental challenge there at all?  
MUNI HE: No, I don't really think about it. I think every day I come into my round having the same mentality of just trying to focus on my own game and hole by hole.   
So, yeah, I don't really think about it too much because I can't control what other people do.   
 Q.  And you can't control sometimes also weather, like we've seen here today.  
MUNI HE: Exactly.   
 Q.  What does a round like this, still consistent, still under par, just kind of motivate you as the rounds go on until Saturday?  
MUNI HE: I mean, to be completely honest, today wasn't a very scoring round. So the fact that I was able to finish 2-under just means, you know, obviously I've got some work to do.   
I think I putted very poorly today. To be able to still come up 2-under, I feel pretty good about that. Hopefully I can just continue with the consistency the next two days.   
 Q.  I was going to say, two more days to go. Is coming away a medalist of Q-Series creeping into the back of your mind?  
MUNI HE: Sure, I think it's in the back of my mind. But at the same time, I think, like I've mentioned, there are so many variables that we can't control. I think if someone has a really hot day out here they could go super low as well.   
I'm not too stressed out about it. Sure, it's in the back of my mind and it's my goal work towards it.   
 Q.  We're also here an Halloween. It's kind of fun. It's a huge grind out here and there are some fun moments. Did you ever dress up like a pro golfer?  
MUNI HE: No, unfortunately, I did not. Just because I think, you know, I played the role of golfer every day in my life. On Halloween I used to always change it up and just do other fun things.   
But for the past two years we have been here at Pinehurst, but it's totally fine. I mean, you still feel the spirit around. We have candy in the scoring tents and tees. It's good to see a lot of houses around the course with so many cool decorations.   
Yeah, it's good.   
 Q.  What was your favorite costume growing up or some of highlights?  
MUNI HE: Gosh in elementary school I was a peacock one year. My whole entire group of friends were Crayons and there was me, I was a peacock.   
Yeah, I have no idea why, but I just decided that I wanted to be a peacock that year. Let's see, later on I was a pumpkin. And this wasn't like when I was five years old. This was like well into elementary school I was a pumpkin.   
Yeah, so I think those two are probably the ones that I can remember as of right now. Obviously a little bit later on I like dabbled in some other things.   
Yeah, those two are probably my favorites.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT