U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2014
Brooke MacKenzie Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. There's still a wait to be done, but talk about the significance of being the low amateur in a U.S. Open.  What would it mean to you to achieve that?BROOKE MACKENZIE HENDERSON: Oh, it would be amazing.  There's a lot of great amateurs here that qualified here this week and the U.S. Open, I mean tied 11 right now is where I stand and that's great.  Coming in, I was trying to make the cut and then climb up the leaderboard, and I was able to do that.  So I'm very happy.
Q. What's the emotion, because you actually achieved what you set out to do, you're among the top finishers and right now the amateur battle is still in the balance.  What's going through your mind at this particular moment?BROOKE MACKENZIE HENDERSON: It's very exciting, that's for sure.  The best players in the world are here and to know that I'm right up there, it's really awesome.  I still have a long way to go to where I want to be in the next couple years, but it's really exciting to know that I have the potential and it was a great finish here this week.
Q. You seem to have fought back against the course and taken a little bit of control of your game.  Talk about what went well today and how you were able to post your number.BROOKE MACKENZIE HENDERSON: Right.  Ball strike was really big for me today.  I made two mistakes off the tee which cost me a double and a bogey, but other than that, I was hitting it really well and had a couple tap-in birdies, which is really nice.
Q. Are you feeling a bit more confident than maybe when you first got here and looked at the course and said this was going to a challenge.  Just exactly how do you feel from your first practice round to today?BROOKE MACKENZIE HENDERSON: Right, when I first got here I was like, wow, this is an extremely tough course and it's going to take four really solid rounds to even like come close to, well first to make the cut and then to climb up the leaderboard like I did. But I was almost intimidated the first couple days and then as I got playing and I started to hit the ball really well, I knew where to hit it on the fairways and where to hit it on the greens and I became much more confident like you said.  And today, right now, I sort of wish there was another round to go back out there, but next year.
Q. There's always next year in Pennsylvania we'll start this all over again.BROOKE MACKENZIE HENDERSON: Yeah, for sure.
Q. About waiting and wondering, Minjee is still a shot ahead, I think, at least, if you don't get it, if you're not low amateur for the U.S. Open, what will your feelings be?BROOKE MACKENZIE HENDERSON: Well, Minjee is an amazing player.  She's ranked No. 1 in the world as amateurs and she's been at a lot of pro events and she always plays really well.  So, not too big of a loss by any means.  Coming in that wasn't necessarily my goal, but it would be nice if it was to happen.
Q. Did you see yourself on the leaderboard when you were talking around?BROOKE MACKENZIE HENDERSON: Yeah, I did, but when I was 3-under there at one point, I think I was more, I don't know where, what place I was in, but I saw my name up there, which is nice.
Q. Did you have any thoughts on that or did you just keep playing?BROOKE MACKENZIE HENDERSON: Yeah, I just kept playing.  It was exciting for sure to know I was on the leaderboard on Sunday at a Major.  It's awesome.  But you just got to play your own game and take every shot.
 
 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT