NBA AWARDS SHOW
June 24, 2019
Lou Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: What's it mean to win this award for the third time?
LOU WILLIAMS: It means a lot.  This has been my path for the entirety of my career, so to have an opportunity to be honored for it, this being my third time being a finalist, five times total, it just means a lot.
Q. Lou, you talked that not that long ago in your career you had some coaches a few stops ago say they didn't think you could perform at this level.  To now have come back the last two seasons and played the way you have, back-to-back these two years, what does that mean to you?
LOU WILLIAMS: It means a lot.  Four years ago I thought I was done.  I thought I was coming to the end of the road in my career.  I came to LA and I was in an environment where I felt revitalized, and I felt I had something to prove.
That last season, when I got traded from Houston to the Clippers, I reached out to some of my friends and family and basically I was like, this is my last season.  I think I'm going to call it quits.
So it turned into my own secret farewell party, only my close friends and family knew what my mindset was, and then coming to LA and having an opportunity to win another Sixth Man it gave me that boost.  I really needed that.  To get another one this year, I'm extremely honored and I look forward to the future.
Q. Lou, congrats, man.  You mentioned Montrezl [Harrell] up there.  How special was it to be on this road with him this year?
LOU WILLIAMS: It means a lot, especially this season.  A lot of my success is due to the chemistry that he and I had.  We play well together; we made history together, being the highest scoring [bench] duo in history.  I don't know the last time I've heard of two guys on the same team being finalists, so I wanted to make sure he understood what he means to me and how much I appreciated him to be there with me.
Q. Lou, how is this Sixth Man of the Year Award different than the other two, if at all?
LOU WILLIAMS: This one was different because I kind of went into the season wanting this one.  In years past I always just played and lived with whatever happened.  I wanted this one -- I felt like this one was going to be a legacy piece.  If I was going to go out of the game and be considered a Sixth Man that would be my MO.  I wanted to tie Jamal [Crawford], be at the top of Mount Rushmore with him.  This year it was more focused on going out there and getting this one.
Q. Lou, you mentioned Jamal.  I know he won playing for Doc Rivers, too. What is it about Doc?
LOU WILLIAMS: He puts guys in a position to be successful.  I think he understands how important a bench is for a team to make successful runs, and he's bottled that up.  He understands that, he gets the most out of his guys.
A lot of times when you have teams, you know, you have great starting lineups, and Doc is one of those coaches that he realizes he needs guys that are going to come into the game and have some fire power.  He's like the Sixth Man master.  He has, what, is this four or five for Doc?  He knows how to get the most out of his guys.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Lou.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT