NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND ONE: CLIPPERS vs WARRIORS
April 18, 2019
Lou Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Warriors - 132, Clippers - 105   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Lou, what was the difference in their defense tonight?  Doc talked about how their defense was a lot more physical.  
LOU WILLIAMS: Yeah, they came ready to play.  They came ready to play.  We embarrassed them on their home floor that last game.  I'm guessing that's how they felt.  They made a concerted effort to come back and respond tonight.   
I thought they were clicking on all cylinders on both ends.  You tilt your hat to them.   
 Q.  Doc said he didn't feel like you guys were making plays for each other out there.  What did you see on that end?  
LOU WILLIAMS: Yeah, he's probably right.  I mean, we were playing from behind from the beginning of the game.  I thought they came out extremely aggressive.  They were willing their way into getting stops, turn those into baskets.  Those guys make some crazy shots at times that can kind of be discouraging.   
I think as a unit we just didn't respond well to it.  It went that way for four quarters.   
 Q.  You had that timeout when you were behind 31.  You made some baskets out of that.  Was there a flicker of hope?  
LOU WILLIAMS: No, we just got our ass kicked tonight, man.  The energy was in the building.  Yeah, that's it, honestly.   
 Q.  Kevin got ejected the first game, fouled out last game.  Did you expect him to come out like this?  Announced...  
LOU WILLIAMS: Absolutely.  Absolutely.  I mean, he's a top three player in this league.  He made those statements with confidence, you know.  He plays at a high level.  We expected that.   
Only thing I'm disappointed about is he announced his-self before he even got here.  We didn't come prepared.  We just didn't do a good job.   
On the other side of that coin, he is Kevin Durant.  He's capable of making those shots.  He's capable of playing at a high level.  Tonight he did that.   
We'll be ready the next game.   
 Q.  Seemed like early in the game, they were doubling Gallo really aggressively.  Do you think that took him out of his game early?  
LOU WILLIAMS: You know, I don't know.  That's a question you would have to ask Gallo.  The fact is we got to get him going.  We got to get him more shots, more easy opportunities to get him going early in the game to create some momentum and some confidence for him.   
But I'm not sure if it threw off his rhythm or not.  I've seen Gallo doubled before and he do just fine with it.  We'll see.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Lou.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT