NBA AWARDS SHOW
June 25, 2018
Lou Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Lou, congratulations.  
LOU WILLIAMS: Thank you.   
 Q.  How you doing?  Congratulations on your award.  I've watched you play a lot this year being from Los Angeles.  You guys looked good out there.  What pieces of the puzzle will you need not only defensively but on the other end of the court in order to help you?  
LOU WILLIAMS: We've just got to be healthy.  I really enjoyed the roster that we have built going into last season.  Unfortunately we had four or five guys go out and put us in a position where we had to rely on some guys that going into the season we didn't know were going to be there.  Tilt our hat to those guys that came in from the [NBA] G League to guys signing 10-days [contracts].  I felt like everybody came in and did a solid part.  So hopefully we get everybody back and we see what happens.   
 Q.  Do you feel like all the hard work finally paid off?  
LOU WILLIAMS: Yeah, you know what, I go out on the floor.  I play as hard as I can and I live with the results.  It's extremely exciting to be recognized for it.  To have an opportunity to win a Sixth Man [Award], this being my second in my career, being one of the guys that go out there night in and night out that's in that lane.  You've got the Jamal Crawfords, Eric Gordons, [Fred] VanVleet, we're like special teams and we go out there and try to do the best we can for our respective games and turn the course of how games go.  So to be recognized for that tonight is an amazing accomplishment.   
 Q.  A lot of players and you hear a lot of young people say I want to start, I want to start.  They get down on themselves if they don't start.  Being the Sixth Man of the Year, having your best season, what is that lesson that you can teach young kids that, hey, even if you don't start the game you can still make a positive impact on the team?  
LOU WILLIAMS: Yeah, if you go into the season worried about personal stats and your personal position,  you've already started the season the wrong way.  Go into camp.  See how your team builds out, whatever is needed at that time, whatever is needed for you, that is the attitude that you should go into it and give your teammates an opportunity to trust you.   
I've always gone into training camp never worrying about myself.  For whatever reason the conversation always comes up every year, do you want to start, do you want to come off the bench?  And I always tell whatever coach I have, it's up to you.  Whatever you need from me, Coach, that's what we're going to do.   
So for young guys coming up, don't worry about starting, don't worry about coming off the bench, whatever.  Whenever you're inside the lines, make an impact on the game.  I came off the bench this year and had All-Star numbers, who knows what else will happen.  So if you go into it worried about yourself, you've doomed yourself from the beginning.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT