LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 12, 2020
Lou Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Clippers 124, Nuggets 111
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Lou.
Q. At the beginning of the year, you said this is probably your best chance to win a championship.  Been a lot that's happened since then.  How do you feel you guys have meshed since that time?  Your feelings on the team entering the Playoffs now?
LOU WILLIAMS:   I feel really good about our opportunity.  I think we're a highly talented team.  I think the only thing that can stop us really is the effort we put forth out on the floor, how much we play together.
Like you just mentioned, meshing is important to us, everybody being on the came accord on the offensive and defensive end.  We probably are going to be our own worst enemies when it come down to that.
We feel like we are in control of our destiny.  If everybody locks in, get on the same page, I really like our opportunity.
Q. Your thoughts now that you know you're going to face the Mavericks in the first round, that matchup?
LOU WILLIAMS:   Luka is being to be a handful.  Dallas plays extremely hard.  We just saw these guys last week.  Well-coached team.  When they're on the court, they're all going to play hard.
For us, we just got to be on the same accord like you just mentioned.  I feel really good about that matchup.  It will be highly entertaining, a lot of talented guys on the floor.  I think the team that plays the hardest is going to win the series.
Q. Your thoughts on the culmination of the season?  A hard year personally and in terms of the league.  Are you relieved?  Happy?  How you feeling?
LOU WILLIAMS:   Yeah, basketball trumps all.  I think the environment that we're in, outside of the bubble, inside of the bubble, everything that's gone on personally with everybody, everything that's gone on inside the bubble with the environment, just not having the things that you're used to.  Basketball is the one common denominator for everybody that's in this bubble.
I'm sure everybody looks forward to continuing to play basketball, continuing to compete at a high level.  So we look forward to the Playoffs.
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Lou.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT