LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 11, 2020
Lou Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Lou.
Q. The last couple games you've been able to see some of the younger guys shine through.  How did it feel for you, as one of the leaders of the team, bench leaders, to see guys step up in the clutch?
LOU WILLIAMS:   It's great for us.  We have strength in numbers.  We have more than enough guys that's capable of making shots like Rodney showed.  I think Terance has been doing a great job of pushing the pace for this team, getting us in our sets, creating havoc on the defensive end.
It's been great to see those guys have an opportunity to show their skills, show what they're made of on the big stage.
Q. Trez now in isolation, hoping to join you guys soon, he said on social media he feels he's going to be really motivated to come into this given his loss, that will fuel him.  What do you expect to see from Trez, he's mourning but wants to be motivated, too?
LOU WILLIAMS:   He's back ready to work.  Obviously Trez is a high-energy guy.  He's a guy that plays at a high level, extremely physical player, extremely emotional player.  With some things on his mind, I feel sorry for the other guys on the other team.
Q. You talked last time we talked about how people should know that many of you guys are dealing with real life situations, mourning, grieving.  What kind of impact do you think that will have on the team with heavy hearts?  Will that help this team get closer in a way?
LOU WILLIAMS:   Well, basketball is an outlet.  The two and a half hours we are out on the floor, it allows us an opportunity to escape from the realities of what we deal with in our personal lives.  We use that as fuel, motivation, instead of it being a distraction.  We deal with those things when we're off the floor.
When we get an opportunity to step inside the lines, that is an opportunity to let our minds go, let our hearts be free, kind of let go of some of that grief, let go some of some of that hurt and bond with the guys.
I think that can be a positive thing for us once we play basketball.
Q. You went through those 10 days.  Was there some kind of interaction with your teammates or something they did for you during that time you pay forward to Trez?
LOU WILLIAMS:   We're a tight group.  We're a tight group.  We spoke every day.  We spoken to Trez every day.  Knock on his door, scream at him on the other side of the door, make sure he's okay.  If he needs anything, just let him know we are there with him.  That's how this group has always been.
When Pat was gone every day, we were in constant communication.  When I was gone for a few days, we were in constant communication.  Nothing is different with Trez.  We were speaking with him every day, every other day, dealing with him, just making sure he was okay, if he needed anything.
Q. Does Trez ever get annoyed when you guys knock on his door?
LOU WILLIAMS:   No, because he understands the intention.  He understands the intentions.  We just want to check on him, making sure he's okay, make sure his spirits are high.  In that room for four days, I did it for 10, it can be a rough transition, especially when you're going through things, you're in an environment where you have to deal with your thoughts.  We just want him to know he's not alone.
Q. A couple minutes ago Terance said he and Trez have always taught the group in terms of the energy you bring.  How have you done that?  What are your expectations from the second unit?
LOU WILLIAMS:   I expect us to be sharp.  Obviously when Trez get back, our group will be in full swing, our team will be in full swing.
We've always been a group to play with high energy, be game changers, whether we need to get a lead, maintain a lead, always be one on the court.  We've always had the saying:  One band, one sound.  We try to live up to that.  We need to make sure everybody is on the same page and make sure the communication is good.
Q. You have had guys in and out of the lineup.  You played in good bursts and bad bursts.  Do you feel like this team is a flip-the-switch team?  Can you flip that switch come Playoff time if you need to?
LOU WILLIAMS:   I think you kind of see it.  I think you see us play well in spurts, then with the minutes and everything, I think our coaching staff, they're getting ready for the big picture.  Mentally we're getting ready for the big picture.
You kind of see it where we turn it on for four or five minutes, then the lineups may be a little quirky.  I've been on many restrictions since I've been out of quarantine.  As you can see Kawhi, Paul, they have been flip-flopping games.  Pat has been sitting.
I know there's another level there.  I know we have another place that we can tap into.  I think guys are getting ready for that.
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Lou.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT