LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 4, 2020
Lou Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Suns 117, Clippers 115
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Lou.
 Q. How do you summarize what happened while you were away, and what have the last 10 days been like since you've been isolated?
 LOU WILLIAMS:   Well, in hindsight I think as far as the public safety issue goes, I probably could have made a better quality decision.  I was a little naïve in that aspect.  I went somewhere after a viewing of somebody I considered a mentor, somebody I looked up to, first black man I seen with legal money in my life.
 The funeral home was a couple blocks away from one of my favorite restaurants.  It's been documented how much I talk about this place, how much I eat there.  I just did something that was routine for me.  I frequent that place at that time of day, 5:30, 6:00 in the afternoon.  At the time I thought I was making a responsible decision.
 After looking back on it, with everything going on in the world, the pandemic, maybe it wasn't the best quality decision.  I chalk it up that that, take my ill and keep moving.
 Q. Can you detail what the 10 days have been like for you stuck in your room, not being able to participate in games?  How have you been able to stay engaged with the team and in shape?
 LOU WILLIAMS:   I just attacked it with a positive mind.  I understood I was going to have to quarantine regardless of the days.  The days changed once I got back.  I just attacked it with a positive mind.
 I was able to finish a couple of books.  I did some crossword puzzles.  I had 10 minutes to pack up my room, so I was able to get out my studio stuff.  I stayed engaged on Zoom with the practices.  Had 30 minutes to work out every day.
 Knowing we had 30 minutes, we maximized the opportunity.  We didn't really take that lightly.  The 30 minutes I had to work out every day, we were really getting it in.
 I was just trying to spend my time positively, keep a great mind, keep a great spirit and keep moving.
 Q. Doc mentioned because of the bubble, people having to leave and quarantine, it shines a light on the real life that you guys deal with.  How difficult is it to focus on these high-pressure jobs while dealing with real life?
 LOU WILLIAMS:   It's extremely difficult, man.  At the end of the day I truly was grieving two weeks ago.  I was really going through something.  I was thrown under the bus, you know what I'm saying?  I was thrown under the bus.
 All the attention turned to Magic City because it's a gentlemen's club.  I feel like if I was at a steakhouse or Hooters over whatever, it wouldn't be half the story.  But it is what it is.
 It was just difficult.  It was difficult to go through that.  I pray and I really hope these fans understand what Trez is going through while he's away, so when he come back people don't have a lot to say.  Pat went through the thing with his family.  I went through my thing.
 We're having real-life issues in the world.  It's on front of a page to see the decisions you make outside of that.  It's difficult.  It's part of the landscape.  You understand that.
 People are going to say their things, they're going to print their things, imaginations are going to run wild.  You deal with these things and keep moving.
 Q. Doc has said he likes the idea of just throwing you guys out there right away.  Were you happy for that, to be able to get back on the court?  How did you feel?
 LOU WILLIAMS:   Absolutely.  Yeah, I needed it.  I needed it.  I don't know if I was going to be able to just watch that game today with the last 10 days being by myself, being isolated, watching so much basketball - watching so much good basketball.  A lot of great basketball games I was able to watch.
 It would have been difficult just to watch this game anyway.  It was good for me to get out there, get a few minutes in, try to contribute the best I could.  I'm sure my minutes will go up next game and moving forward.  It was good just to get out there.
 THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Lou.
 LOU WILLIAMS:   All right.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT