LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
July 22, 2020
Lou Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. What are your thoughts of the experience of everything, now that you have the scrimmage game underway, you had a very good game today.  What are your thoughts on the entire environment and everything now that you've had a chance to play?
 LOU WILLIAMS:   I want to send a shout-out to Trez and Pat who are at home dealing with issues with family.  Thinking about them.  That's first and foremost.
 As far as the basketball -- as far as basketball goes, I think we did a good job moving the ball today.  I thought we played well.  We created some very positive building blocks to continue on in the next two scrimmages we got going into the regular season.  I thought we did a good job.
 Q. What was it like, no fans, socially distanced on the bench?  What was this like to play in this type of environment?  And your game is so built for no matter what the environment is, you scoring.  Do you feel like the rest of the country will see you perform in this environment and also see that you're the six man and potentially get another six man again?
 LOU WILLIAMS:   Yeah, if y'all vote right.
 I felt like it was interesting.  It was definitely an interesting environment.  We had some fun with creating energy for ourselves on the bench and being able to talk things out on the floor.  It forces you as a team to be involved through and through from the coaching staff to the guys on the floor to the players on the bench.  It will force everybody to create energy for themselves to be all on the same page and just create some momentum for yourselves.  It definitely was interesting but it is what it is.  We've got to get used to it.
 Q. In terms of the logo, the stuff they are trying to do to give you a home-court advantage, did that make any difference?
 LOU WILLIAMS:   No.  Once you're inside the lines, once the game started and I was watching the guys play for the first six minutes, I thought it was cool when somebody scored, they had their own graphic on the screen.  I heard the defensive chants.  But when I actually was on the floor, I didn't hear it.  I didn't see it.  I didn't feel it.  I was locked into the game.
 So I don't know who that experience is for because there's no fans in the arena but it definitely wasn't --
 Q. What did you think of the court and the way they designed it?
 LOU WILLIAMS:   I'm excited to be a part of a company that feels strongly about their beliefs.  It's extremely important for #BlackLivesMatter to be on the floor.  I'm just glad that we are part of it.  I hope people understand the message that we are trying to get across.  We are fighting for equality and we are just going to continue to build, but I was extremely proud to see that.
 Q. Obviously the league announced that the award voting will come up sooner than expected.  You and Trez are on pace to be the first duo to average 17 or more off the bench.  Is it possible you've taken it to another level this year?
 LOU WILLIAMS:   I made a comment on my Twitter yesterday about what Trez and I have been able to accomplish, and I made the comment based on I don't have anything else to do around here.  So I was on my phone and I was looking at the predictions that everybody was tagging me in and I was a little disappointed because Trez, he made history, through -- over the years, we've made history, and we're on the No. 2 team in the West.  We've sacrificed and we've still been able to be successful, and as for conversation -- whatever reason, we are not one of the top guys in that conversation.  I thought that was a little weird, but I feel like we both deserve it.  I really would love to share that award with Trez, and if not share it, I say give it to him outright.
 Q. You said you tried to create some energy for yourselves on the bench.  Anything specific you tried to do?
 LOU WILLIAMS:   Just talking -- you see my voice is a little raspy because we're all we got, you know what I mean.  This is the most vocal I've been forced to be during a game.  Usually when fans are communicating or yelling and screaming things and celebrating, this is an opportunity for me to get back in the game.  I wasn't allowed to do that.  That's different and that's interesting.
 So it was interesting, and you know, it's a team effort.  We are going to be down here.  As far as this organization, this team goes -- it's going to be fun moving forward.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT