SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
June 9, 2018
Ashleigh Buhai
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Two rounds in the 60s back to back.  First time you've done that this year.  What's the key to your success this week?
ASHLEIGH BUHAI: I've been close the last few weeks.  I felt some that weeks I've been hitting it great and my putting has let me down, and then vice versa.
Last two days it just all started to click.  I really try to commit and swing through the ball this week.  Found a little something on the range late Thursday, and I was able to take it into Friday.
Q. Anything specifically as to what you found for this week?
ASHLEIGH BUHAI: I just was hanging back a little bit on my right side.  My husband who caddies out here, between him and my caddie, we just try to get me going through on to my left side a little more and just swing through it, commit to it.
I was just kind of pulling out of the shot a little bit.  Definitely played a part this week.
Q. Nice to get a couple of perspectives.  As you said, your husband is out here as well on someone else's bag.  You kind of have a big team.
ASHLEIGH BUHAI: Yeah, no, it is great.  Very lucky to be able to play and do what we do.  He caddied for me for eight years, so no one really knows my game any better.
I got a new caddie this week.  We've worked really well together.  So far so good.  I've just been very calm and relaxed.
Q. I think I've played all but one event this year.  How do you manage such a schedule playing almost every single week?
ASHLEIGH BUHAI: I just manage my practice well.  I mean, I'm not a big practicer.  I do what I feel I need to do.  And with that, making sure I have the right rehab and physio and all that.  It keeps me going.
I've always been one to play a lot, and I think it has to do with I needed to travel as a junior in order to play a lot overseas as a South African.  I think that's a lot to do with why I just enjoy playing.
Q. Can I ask you just one more thing?  Your fifth time playing here.  What do you like about this place?
ASHLEIGH BUHAI: For me, you've got to shape the ball.  Especially when the wind picks up.  You've got to be able to hold shots and work with the wind.
I'm more of a feel player, so I think that's why it suits me.  It's not a very long golf course.  I'm not short but not one of the long ones either.  I feel like you've got to thread it.
In the past, the greens, the poana in the afternoon can be temperamental.
Q. With your name up on the leaderboard, you had a really good start I think at Thornberry last year, runner-up.
ASHLEIGH BUHAI: Yeah.
Q. The more times you put yourself in this position does it become more comfortable?
ASHLEIGH BUHAI: Yeah, of course it does.  I won this year on the LET in South Africa.  Won at home in front of everybody.
But like I've always said, Winning is a feeling.  The stage over here is a little bit bigger; obviously the nerves a little bit more sometimes.
Yeah, you try and control them and we'll see what happens.  A lot of girls to still go out there afternoon, so the score is out there for the taking.
Q. How did it feel to get the win on the LET?
ASHLEIGH BUHAI: It was good.  I hadn't won in I think since 2011 or '12 out there.  And to be at home in South African -- it was a long stretch.  I literally flew back from Singapore and tee'd it up.  Sometimes it's better to just wing it.
Built a lot of confidence, and hopefully can build that in tomorrow.
Q. So even like we talked about, you played like 13 events on the LPGA.  You also played how many on the LET?
ASHLEIGH BUHAI: Well, I've played -- we have a Sunshine Ladies Tour back home in South Africa, so I started off there.  Played four there, including the LET one.  I play a lot of golf.  I really do.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT