AIG WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 3, 2019
Ashleigh Buhai
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tough day at the office at the end but great start to your round?  
ASHLEIGH BUHAI: Such a good start.  I hit so many good shots on that front side.  I only turned in 2-under but I had so many chances.  A few putts were just a bit short and unfortunately on the back side, just lot a little rattled.  Kind of felt like I just lost a bit of composure in my rhythm a little bit but I hit some good shots on the last two holes.  Hit a good putt on 17, just missed and 18 is a pretty long hole and I was happy to take par there.   
 Q.  Even though a few things fell apart on that back nine, you're still right in the mix and you're right there, so you must be going into tomorrow still feeling fairly confident?  
ASHLEIGH BUHAI: Yeah, if I do what I did on the front nine and hole a few putts, I could have been like 5-under on the front nine if the putts had dropped.  I'm hitting it good.  Just have to trust the process and stay relaxed out there.  I felt I did a really good job.  That three-putt rattled me a little bit but I'm in good position and I played unbelievable golf on the back nine.   
 Q.  Do you feel a little bit of pressure off you not leading again going into tomorrow's final round?  
ASHLEIGH BUHAI: I think so.  A lot of my wins have come-from-behind.  I always feel better chasing.  I think I had a four shot lead at one stage, but I didn't let that bother me or get to me.  I just tried to stay and keep doing what I'm doing.  Normally my wedges are my strong point and I hit two bad wedges on the back nine.   
 Q.  What will be the plan tonight?  
ASHLEIGH BUHAI: Just take it easy.  Probably try to go to sleep as late as I can, so sleep in a little bit with late tee times.  But I have some family up here from Bath and so many South Africans friends that have come up to watch, so we'll probably all go to dinner.   
 Q.  Little bit of an up-and-down moving day here at the AIG Women's British Open, what was the biggest challenge for you today?  
ASHLEIGH BUHAI: Got off to a really good start.  I played my first nine holes probably the best ball-striking I could have had.  Hit really good shots.  Turned 2-under, birdied my 10th to go to 3-under and hit two poor wedge shots on 11 and 12, normally my strong point.  Let the three-putt rattle me on No. 12.  I'm still here, two shots behind going into the final round playing in the final group.  If you told me at the beginning of the week, I would have taken it.   
 Q.  What seemed to change on the back when you made a few bogeys coming in?  
ASHLEIGH BUHAI: I think I got disappointed with the wedge shots I hit, which is normally my strong point.  It was probably the most uphill putt I've had and I gave it a little extra gas.  To be fair, the two putts I missed, were misreads.  I hit them where I wanted to.  I'm doing most of it right.  I just had a few misreads coming in.   
 Q.  Earlier this week you talked about working on dealing with pressure, dealing with the nerves and trying to get together four good rounds.  Do you feel like you handled the pressure and the nerves well today?  
ASHLEIGH BUHAI: I think so.  I think during a four-round tournament, everybody is going to have a little wobble in their round somewhere.  Like I said, to still shoot even par, didn't shoot over par, so we're still good.   
I played unbelievable golf on that back nine.  Two shots is nothing, and tomorrow I can go out there and be aggressive.   
 Q.  You're just a few strokes back heading into the final round, not leading for the first time this week.  Will that change your game plan at all?  
ASHLEIGH BUHAI: Not at all.  Just go out there and keep doing what I'm doing.  Like I said, the front nine, if I holed a few more putts, could I have turned at 4- or 5-under I felt and it's a different ballgame.  If I hole those putts tomorrow, I'll have a good chance.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT