U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
July 13, 2017
Ashleigh Buhai
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Solid round after a great tournament last week.  Just a carryover.
ASHLEIGH BUHAI: Yes, I think so.  I just started off really steady.  Wanted to make par.  The greens were playing a lot firmer than they were in the practice rounds.
Compared to the practice round, we're hitting a few more shorter irons than I thought we would which would give some opportunities for birdies which is what you've seen a little bit but they were really quick and you had to make sure that your pace was really on.
Q. How were the conditions this morning?
ASHLEIGH BUHAI: They were great.  So good for scoring.  You still had to play safe and smart golf.  You weren't hitting tap-ins.  You were having to hole 15-footers for birdies.  But as long as you putted and hit the right side of the hole you could give yourself a chance.
Q. Were you finding there were a lot of chances out there?
ASHLEIGH BUHAI: More than I thought there would be after my practice round but I think this afternoon the greens will firm up and the wind is picking up a little bit.  As long as you make sure you leave it on the right side, the greens are so pure you can roll in 20-footers if you pick the correct line.
Q. Usually how is that juggling, usually you want it softer but you want it to roll real quick?
ASHLEIGH BUHAI: Yeah.  So, I think overall the course is playing really good.  There's enough release for it to trick up and for you to be cautious but I think it's playing really well at the moment.  USGA has done a good job.  So today I think most of the girls will be loving putting on these greens.
Q. You carried over the form from Sunday to today.  How do you do it tomorrow?
ASHLEIGH BUHAI: I got to keep doing what I'm doing.  I'm hitting my irons really good and I feel this is really a second shot golf course.  The fairways are pretty generous.
So, last week I was feeling great after it and I felt I played decent at the KPMG except the last round.  I feel I've been playing decent and finally starting to show.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT