THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 9, 2017
Ashleigh Buhai
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. That shot to 18, that was a beauty.
ASHLEIGH BUHAI: Thank you.
Q. Did you think you had a chance there, or you knew the way Katherine was playing all week?
ASHLEIGH BUHAI: Yeah, I mean, Katherine -- we both played great this week, today.  5-under, no bogeys.  I had three lip-outs on the back nine, but I hit the putts and the shots that I had to just keep hitting, and finally on 18 it was just a little close, and enough to think maybe I could hole the putt, but the two shots Katherine hit on 16 and 18 to work it around trees were fantastic, so all good to her.
Q. Could you sense anything when you got even with her on a couple of occasions today?
ASHLEIGH BUHAI: Yeah, I felt pretty calm throughout the whole week, which was nice, and I think when you're playing good, that's what happens.  When we got even, I just knew I had to, like I said, keep hitting the shots, and I did that.  There's not much more you can do, and she made a birdie straight away.  She bounced back well.  Yeah, I got within close range, but it was a great birdie on 18.
Q. Your impressions of Green Bay?
ASHLEIGH BUHAI: Well, obviously I love it.  Whenever you play well somewhere, you're going to enjoy it, but we had a great week here.  Drove up from Chicago, it was a nice, easy drive, and this course has been fantastic, such good crowds, and the course was pure, obviously really low scores, but I think that's what people like to see.
Q. Your first time playing in the final group.  How did it feel?
ASHLEIGH BUHAI: It was awesome.  I felt I relished on it.  From the first hole I started out with a birdie, and I just tried to keep feeding off it.  I really enjoyed the support, and yeah, it was a lot of fun out there.
Q. How do you keep the momentum up?
ASHLEIGH BUHAI: Well, I don't know, like some weeks it's just easy to do.  It's hard to explain.  And other weeks it's not.  And when you're playing well and you can trust your swing, it's very easy to do that, and I felt like that's what happened this week, and that's how it just has to go.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT