THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 7, 2017
Ashleigh Buhai
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What was working well for you out there today?
ASHLEIGH BUHAI: I hit a lot of good shots, and the greens were very pure this morning, so I felt I read the greens pretty good and picked the line and managed to roll a few in.
Q. Can you tell us about you had a stretch of three birdies in a row.  Can you tell us about that?
ASHLEIGH BUHAI: Just got to remember which holes they were.  13 was a par-5.  I hit the green in two and a good two-putt.  14, I hit a great drive, hit a gap wedge in there, hit it to about 10 feet and holed the putt, and then 15, tough par-5 today into the wind.  Hit a gap wedge to about eight feet and holed the putt again.  Three good shots coming into those greens.
Q. You're just a couple strokes off the lead as it sits right now.  How are you feeling heading into the weekend here?
ASHLEIGH BUHAI: I'm feeling good.  I feel I can trust my game at the moment, but the girls that shot low yesterday morning still got to go out, and the scores have been good.  I don't know, just keep doing what I'm doing and try and give myself a chance by playing some steady golf over the weekend.
Q. What about your game has been working well on this scores?
ASHLEIGH BUHAI: You've got to drive it well, but it's not playing very long, so it's kind of a putting competition I feel.  That's why you're seeing such low scores out there.  I'm just really making some putts that I haven't made the last few weeks that has been the difference overall.
Q. After yesterday did you kind of have a feel for what kind of score was going to win this thing, or is there still a lot to be told the next couple rounds?
ASHLEIGH BUHAI: Yeah, I mean, yesterday there was no wind for the morning and afternoon.  Today it was blowing from the first hole.  You know, it was a little tricky out there, but I think from our practice rounds, we knew it was going to be a low-scoring tournament, and there's a lot of birdies to be made out there.  You've got to just keep your foot in the gas out here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT