GAINBRIDGE LPGA
February 26, 2021
Ashleigh Buhai
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Ashleigh, what a great second round her at Lake Nona.  What was different about today than yesterday?
 ASHLEIGH BUHAI:   I think it was just about getting back into rhythm yesterday and finding my feet.  Front nine yesterday I scrambled my butt off, and then kind of started to see the shots again on the back nine.
 Finished strong.  I felt like I found something, and then I just took that into today.  I felt I managed the course really well.  There was some tight pins.  I played to the spaces when I needed to, and when I could attack I would attack, so...
 Q. Overall how much do you like this course and much do you think it plays well to your game?
 ASHLEIGH BUHAI:   I really like the course.  I like the way it is on my eye.  You have to shape shots.  It's not just get up and hit it.  You have to really think your way around the golf courses, and especially on the greens hitting it I think hitting it into the right areas and giving yourself a putt at birdie.
 And obviously it's in fantastic condition.
 Q. Was there anything in the off-season that you did that got you ready for this week?
 ASHLEIGH BUHAI:   Well, it was a bit of a change.  I want able to go back to South Africa, so I used the time, my husband and I you were going to set up base here, so we used the time, set up in Florida, Palm Beach Gardens, got ready for that.
 Gave me time to settle, and I only started practicing about three weeks ago.  My coach managed to come over from South Africa last week and we made a few tweaks, especially in the putting, and I'm really happy that it's showing so soon after trying to have a few tweaks.
 Q. And lastly, what's the mindset going into the weekend?  What are you hoping to do?
 ASHLEIGH BUHAI:   Just stick with what I'm doing, just stick with my process and routines.  I didn't hit it close today but it was pretty stress-free golf.  I think when I do that I play my best.  You have to just see one or two go in and then they seem to fall.  I burned the edges coming in.  I could have been like 4-under coming in, too.  Hopefully tomorrow a few more will drop in.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT