CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
September 20, 2020
Ashleigh Buhai
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Ashleigh, I know you already asked you this earlier -- first of all, great round today.
 ASHLEIGH BUHAI:   Thank you.
 Q. What are you going to focus on after this?
 ASHLEIGH BUHAI:   I mean, the fact that I shot 7-under today and got myself in contention, my goal going into today was to get into double digits and ultimately finish top 10 because I'm not in the U.S. Open yet.
 There are two spots, so I accomplished that goal; to get into a playoff was a bonus.  Hit good shots coming down the stretch.  You know, adrenaline.  It's difficult to really calculate.  Not much you can do, and just a misread putt.  Just misread it a little bit.
 Q. You mentioned goals and you broke a lot of them.  Moving forward do you think you're going to focus on one part of your game more, maybe long game?  Short game?  Putting?
 ASHLEIGH BUHAI:   Yeah, like I just got to keep doing what I'm doing with my swing.  I felt very confident this week.  For me, once my putter got hot, then it started to show.  I think what I found with my putting this week, if I can continue that, then everything should be good.
 Q. You had really good shots today.  Just so many highlights.
 ASHLEIGH BUHAI:   Yeah.
 Q. What are you telling yourself mentally?  How are you giving yourself the support that you need right now?
 ASHLEIGH BUHAI:   Just keep doing what I'm doing.  Like to be able to hit shots under pressure, that's when you really know, and I executed that really well today.  So I'm proud of myself.  Even in the playoff I executed it the way I wanted to, so that's all you can do and that's all you can try to hope for.
 We go forward, and I know this will bump me up into CME and get me into U.S. Open, so it takes care of a lot of stuff.
 Q. I still think that you should celebrate.  Do you think that you are going to celebrate in some way?  Maybe a doughnut or something from Portland?
 ASHLEIGH BUHAI:   I can't.  I'm celiac, so no gluten for me unfortunately.  That would be nice.  I can't say I really feel like celebrating right now.  I finished second in the past and I felt that was a good week.  Obviously a little disappointed, but there were far more positives this week than negatives, and got to take that into the next tournament.
 Q. What are you going to do not golf related?
 ASHLEIGH BUHAI:   I'm a golf nerd, so when I'm not playing golf I'm watching golf.  But in my down time I just love to chill.  Give me a couch and a TV and a good show and I'm good to go.
 Q. There are so many fans out there supporting you today.  Really good job.  Look forward to seeing you for the rest of the season.
 ASHLEIGH BUHAI:   Thank you very much.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT