AIG WOMEN'S OPEN
August 21, 2020
Emily Pedersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  Q. 1-over par heading into the weekend.  How does that feel?
 EMILY KRISTINE PEDERSEN:   It feels good.  It's tough out there.  I actually felt like the first three holes, the wind wasn't that much.  I was like, it's going to be more scorable today and on the 4th hole the rain came and I was like, maybe not.  I'm super happy being at plus one and feel like I'm playing pretty good and there's still half the tournament to go.
 Q. For people watching on v or even sitting inside at the minute in Scotland, seeing it come down really, really heavy, how did it feel out on the course and how were you able to play on the tricky stretch on the front nine?
 EMILY KRISTINE PEDERSEN:   It was tough, obviously.  I couldn't really think of anything else than just trying to stay dry, trying to be ready for the next shot, but it was tough but I think we got a way with it quite good.
 Q. How important is the caddie on a day like today?  How important is your caddie?  What sort of job did they do?
 EMILY KRISTINE PEDERSEN:   The caddie is always important, but on a day like this, it's just nice that all my focus can be on staying dry, and trying to get ready for the shot, so I don't have to sort the bag out.  I don't have to dry the grips.  I don't have to walk with the umbrella.  All sorts of stuff like that.  So I was really happy.  We did a good job today and I was really happy about that.
 Q. Do you have a process that you do?  You don't play in the rain very often, really, on this tour.  Do you have a routine you go through, like taking your glove off?
 EMILY KRISTINE PEDERSEN:   I'm trying to hang the glove up in the umbrella and have a towel and I walk with like mittens on.  So I just try to keep my hands dry at all times, and then we get up there, I hold the umbrella so we can do the yardage.  Then he holds the umbrella so I can do the yardage.  Then he holds the umbrella while I get my hands dry and I take out the club and we go and quickly and under the umbrella again.
 Q. Game of umbrellas, basically.
 EMILY KRISTINE PEDERSEN:   It is.
 Q. Do you think it helps being from Denmark?  Weather is obviously cold out there and you don't play and practise in the peak of winter, but are you more used to playing in this sort of weather?
 EMILY KRISTINE PEDERSEN:   I do, I just think I'm prepared for.  It like my parent, my dad is a lawyer and my mom is in risk banking and they sometimes see things a little bit worst-case scenario and I kind of was prepared for that today.  I think that kind of mind-set helped me out because I was prepared for the worst and then when it came, I was like, I'm ready for this.  So that was good I think.
 Q. Talk about your round.  You birdied the The Postage Stamp.  That's one to get on the C.V.  Tell me what you did there?
 EMILY KRISTINE PEDERSEN:   I hit it probably 20 feet past and then it spun back a yard or two and then holed the putt.  So that was good. It felt good because I just missed a six-feet for par on the hole before, so it was good to kind of have that, hole that putt and get back into momentum a little bit.
 Q. Looking ahead to the weekend, is there a number that you have in mind that you want to get to, or are you just going through the motions off the back of your performance last week?
 EMILY KRISTINE PEDERSEN:   It's hard to say because you never know with the conditions.  Obviously I want to shoot under par.  That's always the goal, and especially in weather like this, that would be a really good score.  But I'm just going to try and do the best I can on every shot, try and put the score together on every hole and then see where it takes me.
 Q. You're currently The Race to Costa del Sol leader, and another good week this week could put you in a strong position for the rest of the season given how many points are at stake.  Is that in the back of your mind at all?
 EMILY KRISTINE PEDERSEN:   Not really.  It's good to be No. 1.  There's a lot of golf to play, and right now I'm just focussing on posting a good score and kind of surviving each day out in this weather.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT