AIG WOMEN'S OPEN
August 20, 2020
Emily Pedersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  Q. A super round today, after the emotions of last week, how did you get your head together to do it all over again?
 EMILY KRISTINE PEDERSEN:   Last week was great and I kind of gave myself most of Monday off to be like, all right, take it in because I think sometimes you can skip the joys a little bit too quickly especially when we play week-after-week.  So I took Monday to be like, take it in, take a few interviews, and from Tuesday, be ready for a new week, kind of reset, new focus and then that kind of helped me.
 Q. You are only in your second week back.  I know you played a lot with your colleagues in Denmark yourself, so it must be quite exhausting in a way to do a full four-day event followed by some very tiring conditions today?
 EMILY KRISTINE PEDERSEN:   Yeah, it is a little tiring.  My WHOOP band is not saying my recoveries and it's tough.  But it's good.  I mean, it's so great to be back but it is tough because especially when we play in these conditions because it takes a lot out of you to stay focused and kind of be on the ball all the time, and then obviously had a lot of emotions going on on the weekend last week, but I'm happy to be here and I'm just so happy to play in the Women's Open again.
 Q. So you had a very calm scorecard today compared to the very not calm weather conditions.  How did you manage where everyone else is having a bit of an up-and-down round, you've managed to stay very patient?
 EMILY KRISTINE PEDERSEN:   Two birdies, two bogeys and I tried to just break it down again, doing one shot at a time and we said to each other on the range, every par is good, and let's try and make bogey the worst, so whenever we would get out of position, just get back into position, get that putt for par and then two-putt for bogey, and we managed to do that because we were just clear on we are going to make mistakes.  We are going to have -- hit a few wrong clubs.  I'm going to hit one that's not in the center of the face and then when the wind is so far on, you miss it a little bit and it just looks a lot worse and just tried to be kind of aware on that and not be too hard on myself once I would hit them and just focus on the next one.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT