ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
August 16, 2020
Emily Pedersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Well done on today, not quite what you wanted at the end but well played for the whole week.  It really came down to the wire, didn't it?
 EMILY KRISTINE PEDERSEN:   Yeah, I didn't know, actually, until 17, I didn't know I was up there kind of.  So that made it kind of interesting.  I missed a few three, four feet putt up there, so that was a bit of a shame.  But it happens, and I haven't played good in a while, so I'm happy to play some decent golf.
 Q. How did you find the conditions out there today?
 EMILY KRISTINE PEDERSEN:   Good.  I think it's playing good because the greens are firm.  It's hard to hit these stock shots to birdie.  But I felt like I hit it really well.  As I said, I missed a few really short birdie putts and then a short one on 15.
 Yeah, it's a good close, and I like being here.
 Q. How have you found the whole week?
 EMILY KRISTINE PEDERSEN:   Good.  It's good to be back.  Such an amazing job that all you guys have done for us to play, my caddie and I spoke in the car here saying it's quite incredible how everything has been organized so well and we are taken such good care of.
 When we are at the golf course, it almost feels like normal, so I think that's quite amazing that that could happen.
 Q. Did you feel the COVID safety measures put in place, did you feel safe?
 EMILY KRISTINE PEDERSEN:   Yeah, 100 percent safe.  I think it was good we did the testing.  It's been a pleasure to be here.  You took such good care of us.
 Q. How did you feel about your boyfriend was caddying for Danielle and you're in the same group, was that weird?  Has that happened before?
 EMILY KRISTINE PEDERSEN:   No, it's the first time actually.  It was a little weird.  Because normally when he's there and we play, we chat a lot, and I don't think we said anything to each other today.  It was a bit weird.
 But yeah, they make a good team and I respect the work.  At the end of the day, this is my job and it's his job and we are both professionals.  We just to learn to deal with it.  I think the first time is always a little odd.
 Q. When are you travelling over to The Open?
 EMILY KRISTINE PEDERSEN:   I'll get a shuttle.  I think it's waiting for me.  I had booked it for 4.00, then I said, do you think it will wait for me if I go into the playoff.  I think it will go whenever I'm ready.
 Q. I missed the very start, if you did, apologies for repeating.  You are obviously one of three Danes up there this week.  What is it about you guys and playing well on this course this week?
 EMILY KRISTINE PEDERSEN:   Both Nanna and Nicole and I grew up together, and we've been practising a lot during this time and talking to each other quite a bit, and I think it helps that we've had a few camps with our coach and can push each other and listen to each other when they struggle a bit.  So it's good.  I know both these girls work so hard, and how much effort they put in.  It's not a surprise to me that they played well this week.  I'm so happy for Danish golf and for Danish women's golf that they are both up there and I think it's amazing.  It's fun that we can kind of be noted on the scoreboard, I think that's super cool because I know them so well.
 Q. What's the rest of your schedule?
 EMILY KRISTINE PEDERSEN:   Playing next week.  Then I'm playing in Czech Republic the week after, and then I think it's a few weeks off and then Switzerland and France.
 Q. So you're playing on the Ladies European Tour?
 EMILY KRISTINE PEDERSEN:   Yes.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT