THE SENIOR OPEN PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 27, 2019
Woody Austin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You go out at 2-over, but you come in, 4-under par, and you haven't have a bogey on your card in the final nine holes.  What did you capture in the latter part of your rounds?  
WOODY AUSTIN: I think the biggest change was I probably got perturbed enough at myself to not be so passive.  I mean, it's hard -- obviously the weather was tough and you're trying not to make mistakes and hit into bunkers and makes it really hard when it's rainy, and I played too many passive shots the first nine holes.   
I was doing all right, but after bogeying 9, I told myself, if you shoot whatever, you shoot whatever, but stop being so passive.  I really hit some good shots on the back and put the ball right where I needed to and made a couple 10-footers?   
 Q.  With the championship on the line tomorrow, will you carry that same attitude?  
WOODY AUSTIN: I'm going to try.  It's hard to do, especially that's probably one of my biggest weaknesses is I try to play -- I get a little timid.  I'm going to do my best to try to tell myself to go win and not try.   
 Q.  A round of 68.  Your assessment of your play today?  
WOODY AUSTIN: I think I played pretty solid for 13 holes.  I think I played five holes pretty timid and let the elements get to me a little bit.  Tried to play too conservative.   
You know, it's a tough golf course.  You've got a lot of bunkers to miss and a lot of spots to keep the ball in play.  I overthought it too much with the rain and how hard it is in the rain, and so I just did a better job the last nine holes of just being aggressive and staying with it.  It worked out.   
 Q.  The back nine, you had five birdies today but to finish that strong is good?  
WOODY AUSTIN: Yeah, 4-under on the back after that start -- I hit the ball where I had to.  I didn't make any long putts.  I just the ball in there ten feet, a couple 6-footers and I gave myself a lot of chances.   
 Q.  In these conditions, you need to be patient?  
WOODY AUSTIN: Yeah, that's the hard part.  I was good the first seven holes.  I was still even par.  I wasn't doing anything bad.  I just was too conservative on 8.  I hit it on the front on 9 and spun it off the green and didn't get it up-and-down.  Other than that, I think I played pretty solid.   
 Q.  Birdieing 16 and 17, do you feel confident going into the final round now?  
WOODY AUSTIN: Well, I'm pretty confident, anyway.  I like tough conditions.  We're not used to playing in these kind of tough conditions.  I do like it hard because then I don't -- I can be patient which is hard for me.  I don't like it when it's easy and you're not playing well, but it's easier to stay in there and stay committed when it's tough conditions and nobody's playing real well.   
So you can make a couple bogeys like I did on the front and still know you're in it and stay in there, where conditions are perfect and everybody is shooting low scores, if you're not shooting low scores, it's hard to stay patient.  I had no problems with the difficulty.  I like it when it's tough.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT