U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 26, 2015
Woody Austin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Next up on the podium is Woody Austin.  He shot an even par 70 today.  He's 3 under for the Championship.   Q.  Woody, course play much differently today?  WOODY AUSTIN: No, it still played pretty easy.  Obviously, it was easier since we were in the morning.  So there was still moisture on the course and the greens and what have you.  They didn't move too many tees back or anything to make the course play too much longer.  They moved a couple.  But it was very much, very much gettable again today.  I just didn't make enough putts to get it today.   Q.  I take it, you're a little frustrated on the last.  WOODY AUSTIN: I'm very frustrated.  But that's my game, unfortunately.  That's why I said I need a U.S. Open because I need my putter not to cost me as much as it does on a regular event.  It cost me today, but I might only still be three or four back whereas in a regular tournament, I'd be down the road.   Q.  Looks like a couple guys got -- they were firing and falling back today.  WOODY AUSTIN: Sure.  Like I said, it was definitely gettable.  Like I said, I made two -- the crazy thing is I made two long ones, and then I missed everything else.  I made it from off the green on 16 after missing it on 15.  Then I turned right around and hit a beautiful hybrid on 17 to four feet and didn't make that.  I missed so many that are makable that it just gets frustrating.  It gets very frustrating.   Q.  Is the 18th hole here right out of the classic finishing style?  WOODY AUSTIN: It's a beautiful hole.  It really is.  You've got to hit it in the fairway.  That's nice when you actually have to hit it in the fairway to do something.  That makes for a good hole.  It gives you the ability, if you're not driving it straight, to hit a 3 wood, but you just have to hit like a medium long iron, a pretty good iron into that green, which is not really -- you don't want to be hitting 4 and 3 irons into that green.  You don't want to lay back too far. So you've got to challenge it.  I hit driver, 6 iron today.  If that's what you've got to do, that's what you've got to do.   Q.  Frustrations with your putting aside, you're right there.  It's not like anybody pulled away.  WOODY AUSTIN: No, like I said, that's the great thing about a U.S. Open.  Anything in the red, unless somebody plays, you know, out of their head.  But the problem is I should be trying to separate myself from the field, not still be two and three shots behind.  I should be winning.  I should be leading, not following.  Again, that's disappointing.  That's frustrating.   Q.  Isn't that a U.S. Open in general, though?  WOODY AUSTIN: Again, well, to a degree, like I said.  But if you play well enough to where you should be, like I said, I mean, I think I played better today than I did yesterday, and I shot three shots worse.  I had five putts worse.  I had 32 putts with a chip-in today.  I had three one-putts.  16, I putted it in from off the green, but that's considered a chip-in.  So that's it. I made that, and then I made probably a 25, 30-footer on 7.  But I missed it from 6 feet on 15, 4 feet on 17, 12 feet on 18, 3 feet on 1, 12 feet on 4, 12 feet on 5 or 6, 12 feet on the last hole.  It gets frustrating.   Q.  Just keep doing that, though, you keep hitting it this way, some will go eventually.  WOODY AUSTIN: That's what you keep telling yourself.  But like I said, what happens is I do what I did on the front nine today, I start forcing the issue a few times, and I went for the green on 4, and I had to hit it perfect to get over the creek, but I still went for it because I felt like I had to get it on the green and two-putt or whatever, and I hit it in the creek.  Then I was able to chip it to three feet, so that was good.  I saved par there. But I start forcing the issue.  I start trying to hit it too close, and that's when you get in trouble at a U.S. Open is trying to hit it too close.   Q.  Your ball striking has been good for a long time.  WOODY AUSTIN: It's always been.  You know, it struggled the last probably four, five years on Tour as far as my career goes, but that was always my strongest suit.  I've always been a good ball striker.   Q.  Whey did you play so much in the PGA tour this year?  WOODY AUSTIN: I wanted to start out the year again just to see how it was.  This Tour has such a slow start to it.  Even though I played all the way through New Orleans, I think I only missed three tournaments out here.  Three, maybe four tournaments because I wasn't going to get in Hawaii.  Then you have two tournaments, then you have four weeks off.  Then you play.  So there was no reason not to at least see how it was going. It's also a good way to get myself ready for coming out here because I play out there and I wear out my 3 iron and my rescue and my hybrid and my 4 iron.  Then I come out here and I'm hitting 8 iron, 9 iron, makes me feel better.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT