SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 24, 2015
Woody Austin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Talk about the four days that you were able to have here.WOODY AUSTIN: Pretty good four days as far as ball striking and my short game was good, but I should have won this tournament by a mile.  I just putted so bad.  I missed so many.  So many short putts.  It's just very aggravating.Q. When you have a course that's this tough how important is it to convert those?WOODY AUSTIN: Well that's the whole thing, like I said, I mean you get -- you're going to get some really bad bounces like I did on the third hole today.  I missed the fairway by five yards in the air and that ball bounced 30 yards dead left into the hay and I had to chip out.  And I only missed the fairway by five yards. So you can't afford to 3-putt the first hole and then miss it from five feet you know what I mean, you just can't miss all the putts I missed this week.  Because you know that's going to happen.  The last hole was another example.  I only missed the green by maybe a foot and I had to swing at it like I was going to hit it 30 yards to hit it 12 feet. So, I mean there's just a lot of silliness and goofiness to the golf course.  You can't afford to let those shots slide.  And I let a ton of them go.Q. After walking this for four or five days, I mean is this a place you would like to come back to?WOODY AUSTIN: I said it before, it's the wrong golf course, the wrong design, for this piece of property.  That's the way I can say it. You can't build a Pete Dye Stadium Course on a bunch of hills.  It just makes it stupid.  So, as far as coming back to play, I can't see it happening.Q. With what, with the number and what Colin is doing, is that pretty much, he's just been consistent with --WOODY AUSTIN: Well, obviously, yeah, if you look at it.  I was consist tenths every day, too.  I was never worse than 1-over any day, so I never made more than a bogey.  But I never -- let's see I made four birdies -- I made a grand total of 11 birdies in four days.  I guarantee you he probably doubled that.  And like I said, I missed so many, I missed -- I bet I missed at least 30 putts 20 feet or less and you can't do that.  You just can't do that.  It's just very upsetting and very aggravating.Q. Four straight birdies on the front nine, did you think that you were going to continue that?WOODY AUSTIN: Like I said, I made a couple.  I 3-putted the very first hole right out of the gate from 20 feet. Then I hit it in there close on number 4 and missed that from about eight feet. Then I hit the par-5 in two and I almost 3-putted that.  I hit my first putt six feet by on that one.  So I snuck that one in. Then I hit it close on the next hole.  Made that 6-footer.  Then I made those two, what I would say are bombs for me that are normal putts for everybody else, but they're bombs for me on 7 and 8. Then I go and I yip it from three feet on No. 9.  And then I miss a 5-footer on number 11.  And then I miss a 10-footer on 13.  It just, it just aggravates me, it's very, very aggravating to miss as many as I have.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT