U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2014
Woody Austin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  WOODY AUSTIN: I think it was justice.  I bogeyed the last hole each day, and I felt like -- I didn't think I had that tough a shot and just got too cute, but, you know, I never played a great round and I never played a terrible round. I shot 72 or 70 or 71 every day.  Just never got it going.Q. U.S. Open type of round?WOODY AUSTIN: Yeah, yeah, it's one of those things where like Thursday -- the Thursday course played so easy, especially in the morning.  To shoot 1-over was just, you know, that was terrible.  It just got me -- just put me too far behind.  Unless you're playing really well, you're not going to make up ground.  They have to come back to you. You know, I wasn't playing good enough to make up ground.  I was never better than 1-over any day.  I was never worse.  I just never had it going.  There was no -- there was no 5-under in my game, because I just never got it going.  I could have today.  I mean, I missed two short ones in a row on 14 and 15, which could have got me to 3 for the day, you know, and maybe had a chance, but I just -- you know, I either do it on the front nine or the back nine.  This week I never put a round together.Q. How did you find your Champions Tour debut overall?WOODY AUSTIN: Well, obviously I didn't pick the easiest one or the simplest one, you know, but that's -- you know, I didn't want to play yet, so this gives me an idea of what to look forward to.  Obviously again though this is the harder one of them all. But it was nice to play on a weekend.  I haven't played on a weekend in so long, so that was nice.  You know, like I said, I'd say it's pretty much what I expected.  I was just hoping I'd be in better form and be playing better, but I have played really bad this year. I needed this.  This was kind of at least a boost of confidence considering how bad I've played playing with the young guys.  Maybe now I'll play a good round here or there with those guys.Q. Tied for third at the end of it all.WOODY AUSTIN: Yeah, like I said, it's a good start.  I'm looking at it from the year's standpoint, you know.  I haven't played very well.  I didn't feel like I played that great this week, because I never shot a low round.  I scrambled, I dumped, I did, you know -- there was never -- I never played one really good round of golf. So, you know, I can't sit here and say, well, yeah, I did this on this day.  It was the same thing every day.  I did the exact same thing every day.  I played nine really good holes and I played nine scramble holes.  I played nine good holes, nine scramble holes.Q. Talk about your two birdies.WOODY AUSTIN: I birdied 5.  That was the long putt of the week.  I probably made, probably about a 23-, 25-footer.  It was my bomb of the week.  I three-putted 7 for par, and then I birdied 13.  I hit it about, I don't know, I guess about 12, 14 feet behind the hole.  Missed two under-8 feet the next two holes.Q. You had a fist pump on a couple of misses.WOODY AUSTIN: Well, it's just kind of like, you know, I've gotten better at not getting so upset.  I realize now, you know, as I've gotten older, I'm not the player I used to be so I don't get as upset.  I get more, I'd say, depressed or frustrated, so that's more depression and frustration, because I just know that I have made some good putts on the front nine and when it really mattered I couldn't make it, and it was just like yep, there we go. I couldn't make them.  Instead of getting really mad it was like, yeah, you knew you weren't going to make it, anyway. Like I said, I really don't get upset anymore.  I just get depressed at how bad I've gotten.Q. Maybe this will make you happier.WOODY AUSTIN: Well, like I said, it was -- it's hard.  I know it's going to sound really bad to the guys out there, but again, I'm coming from playing against 23-year-olds to 30-year-olds every week who hit it 50 yards by me every hole and knock it in from everywhere and shoot 65 every day. So, you know, even par is what I have been doing all year.  It's still -- it's still even par.  I know it was good this week, but I've got to think of it from the standpoint of where I have been this year and how I have been playing, and it's pretty much just the way I have been playing all year.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT