PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2013
Woody Austin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  WOODY AUSTIN:   It's such a long course for me, everything was going to play pretty long.   I tried to hit some‑‑  
   
 Q.   How do you like that club?  
WOODY AUSTIN:   Not very well right now.   So I just, you know, with the rain and trying to worry about keeping everything under control, just didn't pay attention and take it out.   
   
 Q.   Did you see it or your caddie?  
WOODY AUSTIN:   I saw it on 13, because it was another long hole.   
   
 Q.   What did you end up doing with it?   
WOODY AUSTIN:   I gave it to my son.   He carried it for the rest of the front nine.   
   
 Q.   What kind of goes through your mind?   
WOODY AUSTIN:   Can't say I was angry, because it was more‑‑ I don't know, it was more of a shock, so you're kind of like pretty bummed.   I think after 20 years, you do one stupid thing of each, and that's the first time I've ever done something like that.   
Now all I've got to do is figure out how to get DQ'd.   
   
 Q.   What degree is it?   
WOODY AUSTIN:   It's a 21, same as my 3‑iron, but I hit it a little farther than my regular 3‑iron, so I was going to switch them out.   
   
 Q.   Did you know the rule, what happens after that?  
WOODY AUSTIN:   Yeah, I knew it was four shots immediately.   I remember Ian's deal at the British, so I remembered that it was no more than four shots.   
I grinded all day, and that bogey on the last hole probably cost me, so technically, I'm even par, but I'm down the road, so that's kind of harsh.   
   
 Q.   Did it motivate you?   
WOODY AUSTIN:   Yeah, it probably got me in the game a little quicker.   But you know, it also‑‑ it's a hard golf course, and the problem with that is that it's hard to make a lot of birdies for me, because I've got a lot more longer clubs than these young guys have into these greens.   
So it was tough knowing that I had to shoot under par for the last 13 holes or 16 holes on this golf course.   
   
 Q.   If you would have kept it in, what would you have taken out?   
WOODY AUSTIN:   The 3‑iron.   It was just one 3‑iron‑‑ that's all it was.   I couldn't even get to the par 5.   
   
 Q.   What did your caddie say‑‑  
WOODY AUSTIN:   Not a whole lot, but it's not his fault.   It's my fault as much as his fault.   It's both our jobs.   It's just one of those things, if it wasn't raining, we would have caught it.   But you've got the rain cover over everything and you're worrying about the towels and whatever, so you don't see it.   
But if we would have been on the first tee on a normal day, clubs sitting there, you would have seen it.   It's such a bulky club, you wouldn't have missed it.   It doesn't have a head cover on it or anything.   We would have caught it immediately.   But the fact that you have got your clubs completely covered, I never saw it until I dug in there for the 3‑iron on No. 3, and there it was.   
   
 Q.   You were trying it out on the range, thinking about using it, and then you made the decision‑‑  
WOODY AUSTIN:   Not to use it.   Because I didn't feel like I hit it as good as I hit my regular 3‑iron.   Even though I hit it far, I was hitting my regular 3‑iron pretty good.   
   
 Q.   You said you were in shock; how long did it take you to recover from that?   
WOODY AUSTIN:   I'm still not.   
   
 Q.   So how hard was it to focus?   
WOODY AUSTIN:   Like I said, you just keep on going.   But I could be even par and in the tournament, but instead I'm down the road.   So I'm real disappointed.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT