RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 21, 2011
Woody Austin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. I know it didn't end quite the way you liked, but how do you feel about the round overall?   
 WOODY AUSTIN: Obviously, 2-under, I think, is really good on this golf course, especially for the way I played. It was a great finish. Obviously, bogeying the last hole, but I missed the fairway by a yard. You can't miss the fairway by a yard.  
  
  Q. What happened? TV coverage is done, so what happened on 16?   
 WOODY AUSTIN: Hit a good 3-wood, and I had 114 to the front, 121 to the hole, and it was a little into the breeze. I had 9-iron out, and my caddie said you can probably get wedge to the front, and that would probably be the smarter play because past the hole it slopes away.   
 I swung as hard as I could at the wedge and hit it as pure as I could. And I holed it, one hop, boom.  
  
  Q. Overall, on the course, what do you think?   
 WOODY AUSTIN: I love the golf course. Five years ago, I'd really love it. Now I just don't play very good, but I love hard golf courses. I love -- it's nice. Especially in this day and age where the best guy does not win on a regular basis. It's the guy who can putt his butt off that usually wins.   
 So it's nice to play golf courses like this where this week you're going to know who is playing the best. You're not going to allow a guy to hit it wherever he wants to and just putt his butt off. So I think that's great.  
  
  Q. Do you think this is the type of golf course where you can turn your season around?   
 WOODY AUSTIN: Well, I mean, if I can get away with stuff like I did today, yeah. But I'm not, you know -- I also know this golf course is going to bite you.   
 I'm not comfortable in my golf swing. Like I said, five years ago, I'd relish this place. Right now I love it, but I also know that I'm not playing well enough to win, so I'm really happy with today.  
  
  Q. Did you play here in '05?   
 WOODY AUSTIN: No, I missed this one.  
  
  Q. You should have been here.   
 WOODY AUSTIN: I should have been here.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 WOODY AUSTIN: Absolutely. Because I mean, you cannot miss the fairway unless you're lucky enough to hit it where there's been some trample down there. But at least it with this golf course the benefit to that is if you reach where it's trampled down, at least you're in some trees.   
 You know, unfortunately most of the golf courses we play nowadays, there is no penalty for hitting it sideways. That's why you have so many players that just go so low on any golf course because there's no penalty for hitting it wherever you want to hit it. This is the first week where you're going to get penalized. It's kind of neat.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT