BUICK OPEN
August 1, 2009
Woody Austin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Woody, when we talked to you before the tournament started, you said you were searching for your game. Seems like you found it here in a place where you're pretty familiar. Nice 65 today, in relatively tough conditions. 
 WOODY AUSTIN: Yeah. I just putted unbelievable today, I thought. It's a little better -- I mean I drove it better than I did yesterday, but it's still very iffy as far as the golf swing, so that's the best I putted. I can't even remember the last time I putted that well, so that was the difference today. 

 Q. You won your first event here in 1995. On 17 you recognized the crowd. What has this place meant to you, the fans, the whole atmosphere?
 WOODY AUSTIN: You know, that was a good idea Brent came up with, I mean just to tell them how much I appreciate them. Because I remember 1995. I remember playing with Freddie Couples the first couple days and coming up to that green and them chanting, "Freddie, Freddie," and when I came up there on Sunday and had my chance to win my first one, they were going "Woody, Woody." So I've got a lot of good memories over 15 years on 17. And I wanted them to know. 

 Q. You created a good one today. Thanks a lot. 
 WOODY AUSTIN: Sure. No problem. 

 Q. How did the wind affect things today?
 WOODY AUSTIN: It affected it pretty good starting on 11. 12 played pretty well for that short hole there. Usually you're bombing it right out in front of the green, and Ben and I couldn't even get it past the bunker there on the left. 
 About made 13 totally unreachable. I made a perfect drive and still had 250 to the front. So it definitely turned around and made a few holes putt pretty tough. 

 Q. Do you feel like you're back in contention or is that going to depend on this afternoon?
 WOODY AUSTIN: Yeah. It's definitely going to depend on this afternoon.
 I wouldn't say back in contention because I think somebody's going to score pretty low. But do I have a chance, yes, I at least now have an outside chance. 

 Q. It looks like you would've been a lot better, too, if you make the putt on 17 and 18. 
 WOODY AUSTIN: Yeah. I missed a couple at the end, but that's the best I putted in so long. 
 Without putting as well as I did today, I would have probably shot what I did yesterday. Those two at the end were kind of shaky, but I putted so good today, so I got nothing to complain about. 

 Q. What about 17?
 WOODY AUSTIN: Just saying thanks. 15 years in a row I've been coming here, and I remember all the way back to '95, winning in '95, I played those first couple days with Freddie Couples and him being a big fan favorite, and those first couple days them chanting "Freddie, Freddie," and when I came up to that green on 17 on Sunday with my first chance to win, they were chanting my name, "Woody, Woody," and they've been behind me for 15 straight years, and I just wanted to tell them thanks. 

 Q. You'll be back next year?
 WOODY AUSTIN: Sure. Absolutely. I didn't want to wait till tomorrow. I'll do it again tomorrow if I think about it. But I didn't want to wait. 
 I was hoping to make the putt so it would have been ruckus, a lot crazier. I'm glad I made the second one because that would have really been bad. But I just wanted to say thanks.

 Q. It's been weighing on your mind, then, obviously this week? 
 WOODY AUSTIN: Like I said before, you hate to see an event that's been at the same place for so long and so widely respected for so long -- you know, no one's ever said anything bad about this place. It always has tremendous support. 
 You never hear -- you never hear each year, even though he plays and then he doesn't, and he plays and he doesn't. You never hear all the time, Tiger's not here this week, which you hear at a lot of events. And here, they don't care. They support it no matter what, whether he's here or not. Obviously they'll support it a little bit more if he is, but there was no prerequisite that he had to play for this to be a great event, and I think that's awesome.

 Q. Speaking of tomorrow, do you have anything special in mind, like maybe grabbing some sand off of 18 there for some memories in case it doesn't come back? 
 WOODY AUSTIN: No. I'm not into collecting things and doing stuff like that. But you know, if I did something like that, I'd maybe get a shirt or something out of the merchandise tent or something like that, but I'm not much on golf memorabilia, as far as stuff like that. 

 Q. You were so close to missing the cut yesterday. Did that ever weigh on your mind?
 WOODY AUSTIN: Oh, absolutely. Absolutely. I was grinding it out as hard as I could after the triple on 15 yesterday took the wind out of my sails, so yeah, I definitely didn't want to go home this week. 








END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT