FRYS.COM OPEN
October 25, 2008
Woody Austin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 65, nice going out there.   
 WOODY AUSTIN: Yeah, today was not nearly as good of ball-striking as the last few days, but today my putter saved me, so it was nice to actually have one of those.  
  
  Q. Coming down towards the end of the year, one of your goals is to finish in the Top 30 to get to Augusta. How much pressure do you put on yourself for that?   
 WOODY AUSTIN: Me? You should know better than that. I put a lot of pressure on me. Anything I want to do, I put a lot of pressure on myself.   
 That is my goal for these last couple, so hopefully I get it done tomorrow and then I can go home.  
  
  Q. How did the golf course play out there today?  
 WOODY AUSTIN: Pretty much the same as it has, really. The weather is perfect. You can't ask for anything.   
 The golf course is holding up fine. Usually when you get this kind of dry conditions, usually the greens you can see them start to get pretty brown or dry, but these things are holding up great.  
  
  Q. You'd also get in the U.S. Open then if you made the Top 30?  
 WOODY AUSTIN: Yeah, I believe so.  
  
  Q. Two huge things off your mind then?  
 WOODY AUSTIN: Absolutely, yeah, those are the two -- I know that's what Top 30 gets, and that's the goal.   
  
  Q. Right now you're two shots off the lead. How do you approach tomorrow?  
 WOODY AUSTIN: Same way I have. I'm driving the ball great. I'm hitting my driver straight as a string, so that's good. My iron play wasn't very good today, but I putted really good today. If I can get back to what I did the last few weeks, my iron play get back, and then putt like I did today, I'll have a great chance.  
  
  Q. Speaking of pressure, can you identify maybe the one or two spots where you have felt the most pressure ever playing golf?   
 WOODY AUSTIN: I guess The Presidents Cup last year, wanting that as bad as I did, and then probably Q-school, when I won Q-school after eight years working in a bank and wanting to prove that I could still play golf. So I guess those are probably the two hardest.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT