TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
October 5, 2008
Woody Austin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   WOODY AUSTIN: I hit a lot of good shots on that back nine, missed every short putt, and then made the one on 15 and 17. So like I said, I hit so many good shots and missed them, and then I make two of the longest ones, so crazy game.

 Q. Did you think coming out that 69 and 7-under, did you think coming out you were going to have to go low? It seemed like the kind of day somebody could have thrown a really low score up there. 
 WOODY AUSTIN: I figured I had to at least get to 9. And I still figure that had pretty much throughout the whole front nine, and obviously most of the back nine. 
 Robert did 9 almost all day. So, you know, 11, 12, and 13 pretty much told me I didn't have much of a chance missing those three. 

 Q. And yet you had a putt at 18 to do it. 
 WOODY AUSTIN: Yeah, well, like I said, I missed three short ones in a row on 11, 12, and 13, on then I make a bomb on 15 and missed another short one on 16 and I make a bomb on 17 and then I missed a short one on 18. 
 So I said I missed all the short ones and made the two bombs, so... 

 Q. If there's a 19th you got a shot.
 WOODY AUSTIN: Yeah.

 Q. Why was it so tough today?
 WOODY AUSTIN: Well, the greens are so soft and they're very bumpy. You can see every footprint, every heel print and every ball mark and every spike mark. You get the short putts and they just get knocked off line so fast. The ball just doesn't roll. 
 So, you know, it's unfortunate. That's just the way the weather was this week. The greens are just so soft that you can see everywhere everybody's walks. So the ball is not rolling very well.

 Q. Still a great ball-striking week. You can take that on into the Fall. Where are you playing next?
 WOODY AUSTIN: Vegas and Phoenix. That's all I have on my schedule so far. 

 Q. That greens problem you were just pointing out, was that just today or is that something...
 WOODY AUSTIN: No, it's been like that every day. The greens -- like I said, I mean, Tuesday they were just gorgeous. The weather just made it -- I mean, they're so soft, I mean, you can't hit a wedge without it spinning back through. You can't even hit a 6-iron without it basically backing up. 
 The greens are just so soft, and when they're that soft and that full, you just see everything. I mean, the greens don't flatten back out, so the ball is not rolling, it's bouncing. 
 So they either bounce in or they bounce out. Like I said, I missed every short one because I couldn't get them online, and then I made two long ones. You're at the mercy of the bounce, I guess. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT