JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 10, 2008
Woody Austin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Nice round out there. Just talk about your day.   
 WOODY AUSTIN: Started off really good, played really, really solid the first nine holes and made some good putts and was 4-under at the turn. Then all of a sudden I just started to hit a few wayward shots for me the way I've been playing. I kept hitting it on the fringe and kind of blocking a shot here or there. I was never really in trouble of making a bogey until the end. But I didn't play very well on the back. So very happy with at least getting out of there bogey-free.   
  
  Q. Just talk about the course. People come in and say it's in real good shape.   
 WOODY AUSTIN: Oh, it's in excellent shape, there's no question. It's playing a little bit longer than it normally does because it's usually so muggy and hot here that the fairways are firm and running, and right now with all that rain you've got -- the ball bounced today. Yesterday in the Pro-Am it didn't bounce. Today it bounced, so it's getting a little bit better. And by the end of the week if it stays dry, it's going to be the way it usually is, and you'd better make a boatload of birdies.  
  
  Q. How does this momentum ride for you for Friday, to get ready for round two?  
 WOODY AUSTIN: Good. Like I said, I know coming out in the afternoon, the course will probably will a little drier, so I might be able to get to the par-5s a little bit easier. I couldn't get to No. 2 today, even though I tried. It was just playing a little long. Maybe it'll play a little shorter and I'll have a few wedges.   
 The greens are starting to dry out, so you're not having to worry about the spin. Yesterday in the Pro-Am it really was hard with the spin on the golf ball. Today it didn't spin as much, so that makes it even easier, too.  
  
  Q. You feel pretty good even though you know you left a few out there?  
 WOODY AUSTIN: Oh, yeah. Like I said, I putted well today, and that's the key for me, and I haven't done that in a while. Even though it was -- like I said, I didn't hit it as well as I have in the past those last nine holes.   
 I finally got something out of my round that I deserved. I finally got a good score for the way I played, as opposed to getting off the golf course and feeling like I left so many shots out there because I couldn't make anything. So very good as far as that goes.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT