BUICK OPEN
June 28, 2008
Woody Austin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Woody Austin, thanks for joining us. 18 more holes to play and you're in pretty good position heading into the final round. Maybe some opening comments.
 WOODY AUSTIN: Yeah, I got myself back in the tournament on the back nine. Fortunately the guys that were in the lead didn't shoot real low today. I don't know if that was a roar for a birdie on the last hole for 16, I don't know, so I'm at least within a couple shots. Just got more guys in the mix now tomorrow, since there was no separation today. 
 But I've just got to figure out the front nine. The front nine is playing like a U.S. Open to me. I can't seem to make any birdies. If I can figure out how to play the front nine tomorrow and shoot a good number on the back, I'm going to put up a good score. 

 Q. You've been here as much as anybody in the field; tomorrow, expecting a typical Sunday shootout?
 WOODY AUSTIN: It should. I think if they don't get too much more rain or whatever so the greens can try to get back -- I think the problem today for most of us is that overnight rain, poa annua, when it gets soft, it gets so bumpy because it moves with every heel print and every ball mark. 
 So the surfaces weren't as true today as they were the first two days. I think that's probably why there were not as many low scores today. At least there's going to be my excuse, I guess. 
 But if they firm up so they can get a little smoother, then it will be a shootout tomorrow, but it's going to be one anyway, because I don't know, there's probably 20 guys within four shots, I would assume, something like that.

 Q. There's 22 within five. 
 WOODY AUSTIN: It will be a shootout. 

 Q. You have to like your chances coming in; what is it about those holes?
 WOODY AUSTIN: That's my stretch. I'm driving it so good, and you have to drive it good on those holes. So I've driven it right in front of the green on the 12th hole every day and I've hit a good pitch and made it up-and-down. 
 I almost drove it on 14, and that's pretty good for an old fart to hit it that far. So I was right there on 14 again. 
 On 16, I hit it, I don't know what I had, an 18-footer for eagle; so another perfect drive. 
 So as long as I keep hitting it that solid and getting it far enough down there to take advantage of chipping or what of you and get it close enough to make the putt, problem I'm having is when I'm not getting it close enough, I'm not making it, so the front nine, you don't have those short holes. 
 I keep screwing up the first hole. The 7th hole I keep screwing up. And the other holes aren't little chips into the green like 12 and 14. I'm hitting close. I hit it eight feet on 6 and 3-putted today. That was my only bogey of the day. I just can't seem to figure out the front nine.

 Q. With your success here and playing well this week, how much does that help you going into tomorrow, from a confidence standpoint?
 WOODY AUSTIN: I feel a lot better than I did yesterday in that I finished off -- I came back today; whereas yesterday, I went back. 
 So I'm not as upset as I was at the end of yesterday's round. Even though I shot a worse score, that's because my score was as bad as it was going to be today. I hit it as good as I possibly could have hit it except for two shots. Just nothing going my way the first nine holes. I don't know what it is about the front nine this week, but like I said, it's playing like a U.S. Open to me. I think I'm 1-over on the front and 15-under on the back. 
 So if I can figure out the front and keep the back going, I'm going to put up a good score tomorrow.

 Q. From the standpoint, is there an adjustment you're going to make?
 WOODY AUSTIN: I can't make any adjustments. I'm hitting the ball where I'm supposed to. I hit the first eight greens in a row and had birdie chances on five of them and 3-putted one of them from eight feet; so I can't do any better than that. I've just got to figure out how the ball has got to go in the hole at the beginning of the round somehow, and get some confidence.
 I can't rely on 12 through 16 to bail me out every day. I need to get off to that good start tomorrow so when I get to 12 and 16, I can be like, oohh, I don't have to rely on it; but if I have it, I know I'm just going to jump right up there. 
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT