BUICK OPEN
June 26, 2008
Woody Austin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome the 1995 Buick Open Champion Woody Austin. Good round here of 66 out there. I believe the last two years you've open the tournament with a round of 65. Obviously you enjoyed Thursday. Why don't you talk about the day? 
 WOODY AUSTIN: I do some things here that are pretty good in that I drive the ball really well. It's a good golf course. We have to drive it straight.
 I drove the ball really good today. So I had a ton of chances. I only missed one green.
 So I gave myself a boat-load of chances and wasn't really doing anything until the back nine, the one little stretch on the golf course you have to play good. I hit it to like six inches on 12.
 And then I made about a five-footer on 13 and then I chipped it to two feet on 14. So that night stretch there was huge, gave me a little bit of momentum. And I hit a great shot on 15. I birdied four holes in a row.
 So I had a really good stretch. But I didn't birdie 1, 7, 16. So there's some work to be done. 

 Q. This is the time in the 2007 season you came off of Memphis runner up, runner up on PGA. Everyone knows how you played great 2008. Your expectation 2007 hasn't been as good as you wanted to play. What was different today as opposed to maybe the prior five months? 
 WOODY AUSTIN: Really the score's my problem. I couldn't spell score even if you gave me all four first letters. I'm not playing really, really bad, but I get so frustrated by the end of the round that I start trying to hit shots that I shouldn't, trying to fit balls into the hole so close because I'm not making anything. And I end up missing some greens and making some bogeys, and so I shoot a lot higher than I've been playing for the last three months. I really haven't played that poorly.
 But I think at the U.S. Open I had 133 putts for four days. I don't care how good you hit it, you're going to finish last.
 And that's been the problem. By the end of those days on Saturday and Sunday, I'm trying to hit 3-irons into those tiny peninsulas because I couldn't make it from anywhere. 
 Next thing you know you short sided yourself and you hit bogey or double and you shoot a high score. That's the way it's been. I started off today almost the same way. Hit two good shots on No. 1 and got it in the fringe of the green in the middle of the green in two and don't make birdie. 
 Then I miss about a eight-footer on the second hole and I'm already going: Here we go again. I finally made a good putt on the fourth hole to get 1-under and I saw a ball go in the hole. And that kind of gave me a little momentum. And I birdied 7 and, like I said, those four in a row.
 So I just need to tidy up a few things and then just, I need to see the ball go in the hole so I know I can. 
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.

 Q. Woody, you won here in '95; you were second last year. You've had a ton of Top 15 finishes here. What is it about this course specifically that fits your game?
 WOODY AUSTIN: I think it's two-fold. One, you know, there's a lot of -- there's just a ton of birdie holes but you still have to drive it good.
 So even predominantly, although I saw it today, Nick Watney didn't drive it all that great the first so many holes but he was making birdies. You don't see it that often. You usually have to drive it pretty good. Then you've just got to make a lot of putts.
 And it seems every so many years here the golf course allows me to make putts. I always drive it good so I'm not too worried about that part of it. And I give myself a lot of chances.
 But the problem is if you go out and play nine holes and you play almost flawless for nine holes and you shoot even par, you know you're so far behind the eight ball; whereas if you go to a different golf course that you know that there's not going to be 9-under, 8-under 7-under nonstop, then you're not pressing.
 Like I said, the last few weeks, the golf course, Memorial, U.S. Open, and everything, I've been pressing because I've been playing good and not scoring worth a darn and then I screw up the back nine. Today I went the opposite way.
 THE MODERATOR: Woody, thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT