WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 21, 2008
Woody Austin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Talk a little bit about the 18th hole there, the putt you made.   
 WOODY AUSTIN:  Well, it was pretty much a shock to get up there and find my ball had spun back up the hill 60 yards, because I'm not good at spinning the ball like that.  On No. 12, I thought I could spin the ball on 12.  So I was kind of shocked.  If that ball hits anywhere on that downslope or over the bunker, it was going to take a bounce and then spin, but I couldn't imagine spinning it back up the hill.   
 Fortunately for me, though, the putt was exactly identical to the one I just had on 17.  So it was really a matter of -- fortunately for me, it was a matter of just saying, same stroke you had on 17.  And unfortunately I did make the same stroke and almost hit it too easy, because there wasn't as much downhill, obviously.  There was no real break that we had to really read into it and feed the putt in off the slope or whatever.  It was a matter of hitting it inside and hitting it and I made a good stroke.   
  
  Q.  You got off to a great start yesterday and another great start today.  Is that a key in match play?   
 WOODY AUSTIN:  Well, absolutely, because I gave him too many holes.  It was beneficial to get off to a good start because I gave him four holes.  Three of them were three-putts and then 12, and you can't do that in match play.  Fortunately for me, he gave me the one that I needed back on 17.   
 That's the thing about match play; you limit your mistakes by not -- you want him to make every hole a birdie hole that he takes from you.  And I gave him three freebies with three-putts, and you don't want to do that in match play, so tomorrow hopefully I won't.   
  
  Q.  Going into the third round, you've got to feel good.   
 WOODY AUSTIN:  Absolutely, the first time here and I just want to keep going as far as I can go.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT