THE PRESIDENTS CUP
September 27, 2007
Woody Austin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Quite a turn of events there the last couple of holes, Phil makes a big putt on 17 you and you make a huge putt on 18.  Do you feel like winning half a point is almost like a victory there? 
 WOODY AUSTIN:  Absolutely.  There's no question, considering we were 3-down after 11.  We played so poorly the first nine holes, and at that point all you can think about with receive especially holes left is try and figure out some way to get a halve. 
 You know, when we won the three holes in a row, and Phil made such a great shot on 15, you are almost thinking maybe we can go ahead and have a chance to win and Vijay holes the bunker shot and I hit the sprinkler head on 16 and there was so many ebbs and flows and our match and there was so much going on.  All in all I'm ecstatic. 
 The enormity of this event for me, it's been so long, I've wanted to be here for so long, and you know, I probably want it so bad that it was really -- I couldn't get out of the way of making mistakes -- instead of just playing.  It's the first hole you've ever played alternate-shot and to not make a golf swing or hit a golf shot every 15 minutes, it's hard to get into a rhythm.  I hit a tee shot on 3 and I don't hit a another driver until No. 9.  That's weird for me because I hit a par 3 on 5, a par 3 on 7.  You don't think to go that long a time in between, you know, big swings. 

 Q.  The putt on 18 -- did you hit it just the way you wanted? 
 WOODY AUSTIN:  There's no question.  The big thing that we were worrying about and the thing all three of us were looking at, we were trying to get the right speed.  It was pretty obvious it was going to break right-to-left, there was no questions like that.  We were just trying to make sure -- Phil was harping on make sure it has pace so it won't get out of the hole. 

 Q.  Comments on playing with Phil, you seemed to gel pretty well. 
 WOODY AUSTIN:  Like I said yesterday, an absolute honor and privilege for me to play with these guys, especially him being a No. 2 player in the world, somebody I've gotten along with my entire 13 years out here and somebody I look up to and respect and like I said today, I could not have had a better partner.  He did everything that he possibly could to keep me in good spirits when I wasn't playing well and he did just a phenomenal job and he's just a lot of fun to play with on a regular basis.  The fact that he was still that much fun to play with in an event that I thought I was, you know, so versus the way he was just like, don't worry, we're going to have fun. 
 Like I said, I couldn't ask for anything better. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT