THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
September 14, 2007
Woody Austin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Obviously at 10-under you're in pretty good position.   
 WOODY AUSTIN:  Yeah, you know, so far it's looking all right.  I was just a little disappointed letting a couple go at the end of the round because when that guy gets out front you don't want him to get too far in front of you, and I had a chance to close the gap and I didn't, so now he has a chance to widen it, which makes it a little disappointing.   
  
  Q.  When the course is set up for scoring the way it is, is that fun to be able to play golf like that?   
 WOODY AUSTIN:  Well, sure, it's fun when you're playing well.  I mean, we're just shooting darts.  You can hit 4-iron or wedge, it just plugs.  The golf course can't play any easier because the rest of the golf course is in perfect shape.  The fairways are absolutely perfect, the rough is good, and you're just throwing darts wherever they throw the flags.  It can't play any easier.  But then again, if you're not playing well then you're really frustrated because you know it's playing easy.   
  
  Q.  What's it like when pars are really like you're dropping a stroke?   
 WOODY AUSTIN:  Well, like I said, you can't ask for better scoring conditions other than the fact that the greens aren't in the best of shape.   
  
  Q.  Earlier in the year you were down on your luck and missing cuts, then you won in Memphis, now it seems like you're in contention almost every week.  Is it just the turnaround?   
 WOODY AUSTIN:  I don't know about that.  Like I said, I used to think that the best part of my game was consistency, and that was the thing that bothered me the most about my game, is it wasn't consistent like it used to be.   
 Now the last four months it's consistent, that's all.  I'm not doing anything different as far as swing thoughts or craziness, whatever.  I'm playing solid and I'm making a few, so I'm there every week.  But I'm just not playing any bad rounds right now.   
  
  Q.  Would you consider this the best year of your career?   
 WOODY AUSTIN:  It's obviously the best four-month stretch, but I think my rookie year was better from top to bottom as far as beginning to end.  Like I said, my rookie year I played good from the beginning to the end, a lot more Top 10s plus the victory, but this year these last four months obviously with the PGA and everything, I couldn't have had a better little stretch.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT