BUICK OPEN
July 1, 2007
Woody Austin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   WOODY AUSTIN:  I played as good a round as I could all the way through there.  I had one bad tee shot on 7.  I hit the ball really, really good all week, and then I just didn't -- the greens are really tough to putt. 

 Q.  You dropped the one at 13. 
 WOODY AUSTIN:  Absolutely, it was the hardest one I had.  I could have putted that one off the green towards the water.  I could have putted it down toward the front of the green.  They say it's a weird game and you're supposed to hang in there and hang in there.  Through 12 holes of trying to hang in there, it wasn't looking too good.  So it was nice for it to finally come. 

 Q.  That got you going.  You had one at 14.  And on 16, you almost made one that was twice as long as 13. 
 WOODY AUSTIN:  But I was just trying to get it close.  I had hit it on the first green earlier in the day and three-putted from a ways away.  I was hoping on 16 I would get closer on that first putt, and I couldn't hit a better one. 

 Q.  Woody, talk about your round today. 
 WOODY AUSTIN:  I'm hoping it hangs in there and get another chance to pull out a victory.  I hit the ball great.  I hit one bad shot on the 15th hole from the fairway.  Other than that, I couldn't have asked for much more.  I gave myself a lot of chances.  I didn't any until the 13th hole.  It took me 13 holes to make one. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 WOODY AUSTIN:  That one was looking good.  It looked like it started bobbling, hopping, it ran out of pace.  I gave myself good chance. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 WOODY AUSTIN:  Well, I think so, especially if you've got more than just -- if there's more than two.  You have to try to make birdies.  It would be match play if it was one-on-one, but if there are three or four or five, you can't call it match play, it's the first one to make a birdie.  So that's what you're going to try to do. 

 Q.  How much leaderboard watching do you do on a day like this? 
 WOODY AUSTIN:  I'm a notorious scoreboard watcher.  Whenever I'm close, my caddie gives me strict orders not to look.  I was pretty good for me, I didn't look too much. 

 Q.  Having been there before, what's going through Bateman's head right now? 
 WOODY AUSTIN:  I'm sure he's just trying to keep his emotions in check.  I think he's in the next to last group, I think he knows what he's got to do, so I'm sure, he's playing well, he'll get it done. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 WOODY AUSTIN:  Well, the greens -- on quite a few of them out there they've lost the greens around the hole.  They're pretty -- I would say they're right there with the U.S. Open in that they're really crusty and firm and bumpy right around the hole.  It's tough to make putts this year. 

 Q.  Regardless of what happens, the last few weeks you've played phenomenal. 
 WOODY AUSTIN:  I think I'm starting to get back to where I was in my rookie year when I came out.  I was a very consistent player.  When I got messed up in '98, I've never been the same consistent player I used to be.  I think I'm getting close to being back to that consistency.  And that's all it is, just a matter of being consistent.  I couldn't have played better from tee-to-green.  I think I only missed eight greens all week.  And if you can hit it like that, you can have a chance.  That's all I ever ask of myself.  I don't ask more, but I do ask for what I know I'm capable of. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT