DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2004
Woody Austin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  We welcome Woody Austin, last week's champion at the Buick Championship, your first win in nine years since your Rookie of the Year in 1995.  Five birdies down the back stretch to get you into contention, a little mistake on 18 that forced a playoff, but you came back with a birdie on the first hole during the playoffs.  Congratulations, Woody.
WOODY AUSTIN:  Thanks very much.
TODD BUDNICK:  Talk about the excitement of getting that second tournament.
WOODY AUSTIN:  Well, it kind of vindicates the first year, validates that it wasn't a fluke.  It took a long time obviously, but what I've gone through the last seven years, it was nice actually.  I feel like my game is coming back and it shows that I really do belong out here and that I can play.  I just went through a bad period.
TODD BUDNICK:  You mentioned on Sunday your nervousness at times.  You didn't seem to be nervous at all with the fix-footer on the first extra hole of the playoff.  Kind of walk us through that.
WOODY AUSTIN:  Fortunately for us, as far as the putt goes, Timmy was so far away at the front of the green and it took him a while, and then he left it short.  Brent and myself, we had plenty of time to look at the putt.  There were no secrets about it.  It was so close that pretty much once you got the read right, it was there.

When Tim made his and I marked mine and all I did was look at the ball marker, I said, yep, and it was pretty cut and dry what the line was.

It was kind of funny because I had not won in a long time, so by the time I got done with the interviews and stuff and the ceremonies and whatever, I had already 33 voice mails.
Q.  From the time you won?
WOODY AUSTIN:  From the time I won to the time I got to the locker room, which was probably an hour and a half, I got 33 voice mails.  It was a long time, probably too long.
Q.  Have you gotten back to everybody yet?
WOODY AUSTIN:  Not yet.  The wife, the kids, the mom, the dad.
Q.  How about out here today?  When did you get here?
WOODY AUSTIN:  What I've been doing all year since I've played all the golf courses and I've played here, and what would be Wednesday this week is really the Thursday Pro-Am, today was my small practice today I call it.  I come out, hit some balls, have lunch, play nine holes because I know I'm going to be in the Pro-Am tomorrow.  Then I'm usually in the morning in the Pro-Am, which I am at 7:40, so if I feel like I need extra work, after the Pro-Am tomorrow I still have basically all day.

To me there's no reason -- I'm not a big practicer.  I grew up without a driving range, without a real golf course, so I'm not one to stand on that range.  My game is --
Q.  (Inaudible).
WOODY AUSTIN:  You know, I had my share.  I wouldn't say it was overly crazy or anything, but yeah, it's nice for me to recognize that.
Q.  Obviously they've made a lot of changes.  What do you see so far?
WOODY AUSTIN:  Unfortunately I just played the front nine.  They didn't change the front nine.  I looked at the difference in the two books, though.  The back nine they obviously narrowed a lot of the fairways.  I noticed that 17 was really narrow on the book.

I was talking to a couple -- I played with Brian Gordon and Kevin Muncrief and they were asking me questions about it because they're rookies this year.  There was a lot of changes as far as the fairway depths as far as 14 and 17 and 12 I think they were saying, but I haven't really seen them.  Tomorrow I'll get a good look at it.
Q.  (Inaudible).
WOODY AUSTIN:  The biggest thing for me is it was proving -- if you putt well, you have a chance, and I putted well the last two weeks.  I felt like I let Reno get away.  I had Reno in my sights, and I three-putted three times on Sunday.

You know, you can only hit it so good if you can't get it in the hole, and the funny thing about it is Tiger is always saying he's supposedly never putting good, and the guy has never finished outside of the top 30 in putting, and I've only finished in the top 130 once in ten years.  So when you guys say he's putting bad, you guys don't know.  He wants to putt bad, come over here.  I had a couple good weeks and that's why I finished Top 10.  There's no secret to when I'm putting good, you'll see my name up there because I can hit it as good as anybody.

I did it the week before the -- at Flint, Michigan, if you look at Flint, they shot 20-some under but I led the tournament in greens in regulation and I barely made the cut.  I finished 10-under.  I only missed three greens the first three days.  I wasn't even close to being in contention, but that's the nature of the game, especially at that tournament.  Everybody has to putt good to win.

It's very rare that somebody outplays the field like that, say what Tiger did at the Open.  If you look at the Open, he made everything, and that was every ten-footer all week, for four days.
Q.  You talked about vindication and validation, validating your first victory.  Does that actually play in your mind?
WOODY AUSTIN:  I don't know if it really plays in my mind.  To be a 31-year-old rookie in 1995, there's not too many people where I was anyway, but I felt like the fact that I did come out and have that success, everybody was like, who is he or whatever, and then I felt like I validated it to a point in '96 because I finished 32nd on the Money List.  I didn't win but I had another solid year.

But then all the problems I've had since then, you know, you can say that people think he probably had his one year that he's going to have.  Just to get back there like last year at Harbour Town having a chance and now this year going through.  You just feel -- deep down you feel vindicated, like, "I can play out here, I can win."

I talked to Jack Nicklaus out on the range at Memorial this year, and he said something that I've said so many times, but when it comes from me it's not really looked at as a very good comment, but I've always said that to me competing is just having a chance to win.  Competing is not to keep your card, competing is not to just survive out here and be middle of the road.  Competing is to compete to win.  Well, I've had a lot of people say, sorry, you've had success on Tour, you're still here, you've been out here for nine years, but I haven't competed since -- how do you say that?  Well, that's my definition of competing, and when they talked to Jack at Memorial this year, they were congratulating him for making the cut and this and that and the other, and he was disappointed.  He said, "That's not competing to me."

I told him that the next day, "I just want you to know I appreciate that.  They won't listen to me, but they'll listen to you.  Your definition of competing is the same as mine."


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT