MCI HERITAGE
April 20, 2003
Woody Austin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Woody Austin, thank you for joining us.  Tough way to finish up a playoff but it was a great week for you overall.  If we could get some opening comments and specifically about the playoff.  It was definitely interesting to watch.
WOODY AUSTIN:   Yeah, it was a definite ebb-and-flow there, up and down, up and down. 
I drove it so beautifully all week.  I missed one drive all day today.  I hit every fairway but one today, every fairway but one.  Friday, I think I hit probably over 85 percent of the fairways for the week and the first drive in the playoff, I guess it's been a while since I've had a chance to get into a playoff.  But I gave myself a chance.  Unfortunately I didn't come out on top.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  You had a Top-10 at the Honda a couple weeks ago and a Top-10 here.  It's probably just a matter of time before you can get back in the winner's circle.
WOODY AUSTIN:   Obviously, this was a hell of a chance.  You can't say anymore than having a three-footer to win.  I was given my chance and I just didn't take advantage of it.

Q.  Looking at the regulation play, you eagled 2 this morning and you didn't get anything for a long time?
WOODY AUSTIN:   I couldn't make anything.  I hit a lot of  -- I hit the ball so solid.  Unfortunately a lot of times the first nine holes I was right in between clubs and I was hitting it so solid.  I was flying the ball right to the hole and it was just releasing past the hole a little too far.  I had maybe a 10-footer on No. 1 that I didn't make.  I hit it right through the green on 2, I hit a perfect shot where I was trying to, solid right through the green and I chipped it in. 
I hit a good shot on 4 behind the hole and didn't make that one.  First bad swing of the day was No. 5.  I hit a terrible second shot and was dead so I made a good 5. 
But then 6 I hit it right at the flag.  7, I hit it right at the flag.  8, I hit it right at the flag.  9, I hit it right at the flag.  I wasn't getting the ball really close but I had all makeable putts.  They were not 30-footers or anything.  I just couldn't get the ball in the hole.
Back nine, I hit a bad shot on 10 and that was it, other than a bad tee shot on 15.  Other than that, I gave myself a whole bunch of chances again.  I had an easy putt on 11, only about eight or ten feet on 11.  I had about a 12-footer on 13.  Made the one on 14; that was the only putt I made all day.
I had an easy chance on 15.  I only had about a 5-footer on 15 and missed that. 
16 was a tough little putt, I guess.  17 and 18, I was just off the green. 
I mean, I played 36 holes on the weekend without making a bogey at Harbour Town; that's pretty good. 

Q.  Was it difficult to keep your patience? 
WOODY AUSTIN:   It's definitely difficult, especially for someone as hyper as I am.  It's been nine years since I felt like I was hitting the ball  -- or eight years since I felt like I was hitting the ball this good.  It's fun to be back in the game.  It's nice to know that I can hit it the way I used to because I consider myself one of the best ball-strikers in the game.  There isn't a shot that I can't hit.  I may not play very well a lot of times and it may not show up, but I'm not one of the best putters in the world; either which was just proven. 
Give many he a golf course like this and it's a shot-maker's golf course, I'm going to be there when I'm playing well.

Q.  Were you able to see Davis's chip-in on 18? 
WOODY AUSTIN:   I knew where he was, obviously.  It  was funny because I was just walking up the fairway and I asked Peter Kostis about Hal, I asked how he finished at 13, just to know about that and Peter said, "You're the only one at 13." Next thing, look up, heard a deafening roar and saw where he was to the right of the green. 
Some people have -- this is a great place for him obviously and great things happen to him here.  
I was hitting it so solid, just said, keep giving yourself chances.  And like I said, I drove it so good this week. I knew if I just kept driving it good on the back 9 and give myself chance, and I didn't I gave myself a whole lot of chances. 

Q.  What would a win have meant?
WOODY AUSTIN:  It would have meant the world.  The last six years have been golfing purgatory for me.  It really would have made me really feel good about what I have gone through the last six years.  I thought about giving up, and my wife was supportive about keeping me in.  It's nice to know I would have been back in the game.  It would have been huge.

Q.  What time frame were you thinking about?
WOODY AUSTIN:  If I had something else I would have really like to do, I would have done something else.  Everybody says I am very hard on myself and I am self-deprecating of whatever.  I am self-taught.  Everything I've done in this game I have pushed myself to do it.  I have never made excuses for who I am or what I do.  Irregardless of how people perceive it, if I am not playing to my potential, then to me, I am just wasting my time. 
If you went to your job and got 50% out of your job, would you be happy?  I don't think many people would be happy with 50% and I have not even gotten 50% out of my game in the last six years.  So am I supposed to be happy?  I don't think so.  So at that point, maybe I need to find something else.  And once it goes to starting to bother my family, then it's a problem, it was getting to the point that it was bothering my wife.  Just like I told Davis on the last green, he said tough luck, and I said it's just so much fun to actually be in the game again and show people that I do know how to play the game and hit quality shots.  I had numerous chances and it just wasn't my day.




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT