NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 12, 2019
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Leading The Race to Dubai with two events to go, with no Rahm and Lowery here, is this an opportunity to putt distance between yourself and the chasing pack?
BERND WIESBERGER: Not looking too much into that. Just so many points to be had over the last events again, and a lot of things can happen. I'm just looking to be prepared as good as I can. Kind of getting a little bit tighter with some of my game that hasn't been there the last two weeks. Just look at the course and looking really forward to this week again. Not looking too much into the ranking and just controlling what I can control.
Q. That said, the year with injury last year, can you imagine that by this point in the season, you would be where you are?
BERND WIESBERGER: No, absolutely not. This year was kind of meant to get back into the groove of playing golf, and as I said earlier, honestly I was not sure how it's going to turn out because I had to keep my card, and the way it did this year is a bonus, and everything that happens the last two weeks, even more so.
Just going out there, trying our bet, eight more rounds of golf to play and hopefully we can make it really, really good ones and count them up in Dubai.
Q. Tied 4th in Turkey last week, bogey-free final round. Lots of positives to take?
BERND WIESBERGER: The last two weeks were not the kind of golf I want to play, and I got a little bit frustrated, I'm not going to lie. My game was not there. I missed too many shots in positions where I shouldn't, and obviously last week was definitely a golf course that gave away a lot of chances, easy chances that didn't quite take them the way we should have. That wasn't great, but coming to a golf course that's a bit more challenging and demanding and I think that's more what I like to see.
Yeah, I've got a couple of days left to sharpen up the game and do the right things going into this week.
Q. Working on anything in particular?
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, you know, we've had a little bit of patterns over last two weeks that came out of the blue a little bit. So good contact with my coaching staff and Jamie to get ourselves back into the mind-set in Italy, which was really good. Obviously it's easily done if you're not playing up to the standards you expect to; you get a bit frustrated at the golf course, as well and that kind of played in in Turkey a little bit.
Just try to play free golf over the weekend and got a little bit better. Still didn't quite take chances but was a lot more relaxed on the golf course, at least on Sunday. And no bogeys, at least keep that trend going and as I said, get a bit sharper on all the other aspects on the game.
Q. You were last here in 2017. You looked at the course this morning. From memory and what you've seen, what do you have to do well around here?
BERND WIESBERGER: It's a course that challenges everything. First of all, we are here in high altitude, so you have to really trust your yardages. The way the ball is flying, it's going a long way further and you have to trust your clubs into the greens, and don't be hesitant. Just go for it and be positive.
Clearly on a golf course kind of in the bush, you want to stay out of the bush, so you want to be good off the tee and put yourself into position. I mean, the greens are rolling really nicely, really pure and quick out there from what we've seen so far already on Tuesday.
So good lag putting and really trusting the breaks which are quite severe out here in some positions and some pin positions, it's going to be tricky putting, as well. It's a good overall test of your game. As I said, that's something I enjoy having out there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT