TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 6, 2019
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How was the time at home?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Weather was a little different to here, got to say, rainy and cold, but nice to get home, see the family and the girlfriend and get all excited for the last couple events. Obviously it's a lovely position to be in, and really looking forward to those last three big ones this year.   
 Q.  Three wonderful wins for you this year, two in Rolex Series Events, what's been the biggest single factor in your success? It's been the best ever.  
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, when we were in position, we've done really well to grind it out and make that one more putt and hit that one more great shot and get the result in. Obviously Scotland was maybe a little bit fortunate where I've been on the cusp of giving it away.   
Just in general, I felt like I was quite comfortable in position to play for a title, and that's kept me calm and it's quite enjoyable. As I said, I really enjoyed those moments, and then success came with it.   
 Q.  You've played at this venue three times before and finished Top-10 in your rookie appearance. How does this golf course suit your style of play?  
BERND WIESBERGER: I've not seen it yet, so we are going to go play the Pro-Am this afternoon and get an idea. Jamie has scouted out there and it looks to be quite similar to what it's been before we've moved over to Carya the last couple of years.   
Yeah, I've played well the first year. It's a course I can play well on. It seems like it could be a low-scoring week again as it's been in the past, so be prepared to go for flags and be aggressive and hit towards our targets, and make some birdies out there.   
 Q.  You won't want to get ahead of yourself but I'll force you to think about it. What would it mean to come out this year winning The Race to Dubai, and the title of Europe's No. 1 player this year?  
BERND WIESBERGER: It would be fantastic. I mean, the quality of players that are able to hold this trophy, not only Dubai but the whole history of The European Tour. Quite a list there. So to have the chance to be amongst a bit of goosebumps there, that would be nice and being in that position is tremendous, and hopefully we can have three more great weeks.   
 Q.  You've had a chance to go home in between here and China. How was that?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, nice. A bit of cold and rain at home, but it's nice to come back even for one day, see everyone and recharge a little bit. It was logistically the only way that I could have done it with five weeks in a row to finish the year. So yeah, it was nice. I had a straight flight out from Vienna to Antalya yesterday, and look forward to see what's out on the golf course.   
 Q.  No. 2 in The Race to Dubai. How surprised are you by your form since your injury?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, I think Jon and Shane are 2 and 3 still, but Rory had a great win last week and made up a lot of points. But yeah, so we are in good position going into the last Final Series events and looking forward to what's ahead and hopefully giving us a good look at some decent results in all three of them.   
 Q.  What would it mean to you to win The Race to Dubai?  
BERND WIESBERGER: It would be amazing. Like I just said, it's an unbelievable list of legends and of European golf and world golf that's on that list, and to have the chance to put my name amongst them would be amazing. Looking forward to those couple of events, and definitely going to give it our all in these last few events.   
 Q.  You haven't been here since 2016. A good performance then for you. What are your memories of this golf course?  
BERND WIESBERGER: I played well one of those years. I think in the first one, I think 2014. It's a golf course that provides some good memories for me and also some good scoring. I'm sure we'll figure out the golf course this afternoon in the Pro-Am and be aggressive, and let it go out there and hopefully make a lot of birdies, because I think that's what it's going to require for success with the low scoring every year we've been here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT