ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 14, 2019
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tough gig today.  Just describe your emotions becoming The Scottish Open champion.  
BERND WIESBERGER: Well, I mean, I knew it wasn't going to come easy for me.  I had a great, great warm-up this morning, flushing the ball.  It just got a little tough out there for me.  I just dug in there.  Obviously I would have loved to seal it off with a couple of pars coming in, but sometimes it just tests you.  A great week from Benjamin.  He could have just snitched it off me on the first two holes, as well, and just very grateful for how it turned out for us this week.   
 Q.  You've been in dark places with respect to injuries.  You were doing television.  What's it like?  Did you expect these wins to come so swiftly?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Well, to be honest, I did television for a huge motivator for myself because I knew once I was going to be sorted out again -- you have no control over what's going to happen next.  Again, following last year, it just makes it a lot sweeter and you appreciate it a lot more.   
 Q.  One thing I'm going to tell you, you're No. 1 in The Race to Dubai, but there's a long weighing to.  Portrush, how are you feeling going into this Open Championship?  You must be ready to rock.  
BERND WIESBERGER: It goes so quick.  I wasn't in this tournament eight days ago.  You know, I had a great week in Ireland and sealed my spot, and what a week this is.  Just take a lot of confidence out of the last two weeks into the final major this year.   
 Q.  Thoughts on the win?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, that was something different.  I have to be grateful for how the week turned out.  Benjamin had me in the first two playoff holes and that's sometimes how golf goes.  He's had a great Sunday and a great week, and I'm very appreciative of now standing here winning this tournament.   
 Q.  It's been an incredible week in terms of scoring over the three days, but how much did you learn today in that round of golf?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, you know, you prepare just as you do on the other days, but I knew it was going to be the biggest tournament that I've been in position to win, maybe let alone just together with the PGA Championship a couple years ago.  I knew it was going to be tough grinding and it was exactly that.  Had a great cup session and came out and didn't hit my iron shots well and struggled a little bit and we had to dig deep.  That's something that you have to do and you get rewarded every now and then.   
 Q.  It's been a great run of form that you've been on, and you now head to The Open Championship as a winner in the week leading up to it.  How much confidence do you take there and how much are you looking forward to getting back out at Portrush?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, I was lucky enough to seal my spot last week in Ireland with a great finish, and just come in shy to Jon, and backing it up with going one better this week is amazing.  Obviously I can't be in better spirits after these two weeks.  I'm really looking forward to teeing it up in Portrush.   
 Q.  What can this win do for your career?  Obviously going to Portrush next week, but also looking beyond that and a Ryder Cup potentially next year?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, we are starting all that at zero next week in Portrush, and you know, it's obviously a major championship, a lot different, a lot more pressure in that situation than today.  But I'm taking it all as a big bonus and trying to enjoy it as much as I can, coming in with great form.  We are going to work hard to get a great week out of it.   
 Q.  A Jurassic finish there.  Tell us how it feels to be winner of The Scottish Open.  
BERND WIESBERGER: Amazing.  I've always enjoyed coming to the links, Scottish links, and I've had nice success here in Scotland and it's just really, really nice to be able to stand here with the trophy at the end of the day.  It was a long day, but somehow managed.   
 Q.  With the way your round ended, how did you feel going into the playoff?  
BERND WIESBERGER: It was better for me because it was just a get-go again.  I signed my heart, and obviously Benjamin had a little bit of a wait.  I hit two really good tee shots down there and then whatever happened, happened.  But you've got to take the good with the bad, and I was a bit more fortunate today.   
17 was not characteristic from what I should be doing really off the tee, but you know, things happen, and you've just got to kind of cushion it out and grind it out.   
 Q.  That was really intense for all of us watching.  How was it for you out there?  
BERND WIESBERGER: I had fun out there.  You're not often in those positions and you have to cherish the moments when you have them, and I know my phone is just exploding in my pocket here, so I know there was a lot of people with me out there, even though they are not here on site, but very thankful for a lot of people.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT