ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 12, 2019
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Everything seemed to be rolling for you.  What was the best part of your game today?
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, just didn't get ahead of myself I think.  Just kept going with the flow, and nice to get rewarded with nice shots coming in the last few holes.  Took advantage of them.  Yeah, just very enjoyable.
The conditions were a bit breezier than yesterday, but I kept hitting the ball nicely.  Hit a few nice iron shots and quite solid all around today.
Q. A win this season, how long does that give you juice?  How long does that carry?  Is it several weeks several months?
BERND WIESBERGER: I just try to keep going as long as it will take me.  It's been tough the last year.  Coming off injury, it's been hard but winning in Denmark a couple of weeks ago is a big boost to me.  Really enjoy my time out on the golf course again.  Maybe take it not as serious as I've done before and let it go and that really helped me.  Just feeding off rounds like this today.
Q. We keep hearing about the soft conditions, almost like a target like golf course.  How much do you have to continue to keep the pedal down to get that next victory?
BERND WIESBERGER: It's halfway only.  A lot of golf to be played.  You know, it is not quite as linksy conditions as it probably would normally be.  The rain kept the greens a bit softer, and definitely shots like I hit into 8, it was a bit into the wind but they wouldn't stop normally like that.  You just have to take advantage when you get it.  Still, you need to hit the shots.  You need to hole the putts.  Yeah, we've done that quite nicely over the first two days.
Q. When we chatted in-round, you were 5-under par with five holes to play and then birdied the last five holes.  Tell us about that from your point of view.
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, probably have you walk with me tomorrow, Tim.
Q. Look forward to that.
BERND WIESBERGER: You know, I've played steadily.  Had a couple of chances out there and just took the last five quite nicely.  I played quite solid.  Nothing out of the ordinary.  Hit a lot of shots quite close and obviously coming in, finishing off with five birdies is a bonus but it was a good day out there today.  I kept controlling my golf ball and took the chances when I had to take them.
Q. Course record 61 is your lowest round on Tour by two shots, 63, the previous.  Does it feel like one of the best rounds you've ever played?
BERND WIESBERGER: It was, you know, when I saw you a couple of holes later, I wasn't even sure what score we were on.  Walking down the last, it was 9-under and had a chance to go to 10.  I haven't shot 10 in a professional event yet, so that was a nice bonus.  As I said, it's just going with the flow and things worked out very well today.  Not thinking too much and just keep doing what I'm doing.
Q. Tied second in Ireland last week, only beaten by Jon Rahm's brilliant 62.  How would you describe your confidence in the game right now?
BERND WIESBERGER: Pretty good.  I'm enjoying my time out there on the golf course.  I've worked well to put myself in positions like that, and just trying to execute the shots now and enjoy it and take my chances.
So no, Jon played an unbelievable week last week, and haven't done too much wrong to move up the leaderboard.  It was a great week.  It was a great start to the links golf season, and again, just enjoying my time out here in Scotland, as well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT