DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN
July 6, 2019
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A 65, you've played yourself right into the tournament, three shots behind right now.  What happened out there today?  Some difficult conditions in the morning that you took advantage of?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, it was some rain, but it was still probably better than the guys in the morning.  I didn't start off really well.  I struggled a little bit and had to grind.  I hit a really good shot into 3 which got momentum going.  I hit the ball a lot better after that, and I had a lot of chances out there and played nicely.  Played quite solidly.  I can obviously say I've left some out there but all in all I'm very happy with a 65 on Saturday.   
 Q.  We know you've had a tough time with the injury, but to come back and get the victory, what's the confidence level?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, good.  I've been able to really grind out a couple of good rounds out there, late in Germany on that Sunday was really nice, obviously getting myself back into a major tournament.  The win in Denmark was obviously really important.  I've been playing decent.  Would love to maybe get a couple more times into a position where I can play for the win, and we've done that pretty nicely today, so I'm really looking forward to tomorrow and see how the game is in that position.   
 Q.  You had a wrist injury and were out for a long time and fought back; how much confidence will that win a few weeks ago in Denmark give you tomorrow?  
BERND WIESBERGER: I just enjoy myself being out here being in the position again.  Obviously I cherish playing a golf course that tests your whole game.  I really enjoy being on this kind of golf course in these kind of conditions.  I just hope that I can show some of the golf that I've showed on Sunday in Denmark tomorrow, and we'll see where it brings us.   
 Q.  Great start, bogey-free round.  You must be happy with that performance?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, I had to dig deep early in the round to stay bogey-free, but after birdieing the third, kind of stick carted my round and I hit the ball a lot better than early on.  Gave myself a lot of chances, and especially on the back nine, I played really, really well.  Is but all in all I'm quite happy.  A few shots were left out there but definitely a good moving day for me.   
 Q.  You say a few shots left out there.  What part of your game do you think was tested the most today?  
BERND WIESBERGER: You know, I hit the ball a lot more solid.  I was hitting it better.  I texted with my performance coach, Stuart Morgan yesterday, and he reminded me about a couple of things that we've been working on last week that I put in play this week.  Went through those processes on the range and on the course and made me a lot freer and that helped hitting more good shots.  All in all, it was quite solid out there.   
 Q.  Your recent win in Denmark, how much confidence has that given you coming into recent tournaments, especially this one?  
BERND WIESBERGER: You know, I felt since I came back from injury, obviously that I want to play myself into position where I feel comfortable and get myself into position to play for tournament wins and be up on the leaderboard.  We've done that well a couple of times recently, and you know, hopefully we can go out there tomorrow and show justice with golf as we did today, and whatever happens, happens.  Just trying to let go and enjoy.   
 Q.  Talking about that leaderboard, you're currently in third.  The top three qualify for The Open.  How much is that on your mind?  
BERND WIESBERGER: It won't be.  It's a bonus.  The main thing is to take the next shot as the most important.  Be really precise in what we are doing, and you know, at the end of the day, we count four rounds together and see where we are.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT