MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2018
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Talk about your round a little bit.   
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, quite steady. Looking at the leaderboard I didn't expect that 2‑under was going to be that high up. Definitely a couple opportunities out there, but then again you need to be really careful with some of the pins. Some have changed from the previous first rounds here at the Masters, sort of spruced it up a little bit, which some of them made it pretty tricky to get the ball close to. And all in all I felt I executed well and I had two kind of mental errors on the front nine where I hit a bad shot into 5 and missed in the wrong spot and then an error out of the bunker on 8 and shouldn't make a 6 on a par‑5 here, you should really take advantage of it. But making the turn I thought I had a good idea of what I wanted to do and hit good shots and I was happy with a couple birdies coming in.  
   
 Q. How tough was it when you guys came out, it was pretty chilly, how tough was it to get going and how was the course playing early this morning?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, it was really kind of was. Starting to warm up like 8 or so it was very chilly, but it wasn't that bad. I was here last week on Monday and it was a lot colder. So you're probably going to be excited as well to get it started, so your body's kind of heating up as well for the start of the Masters. But yeah, it was a bit cold, ball definitely flew a little bit shorter than it did on the back nine when it started to warm up and the course started to warm up further. But all in all it played nice, not a lot of breeze, obviously you need to trust your reads when the wind is swirling down in the valley, but all in all I thought I did a good job and happy with the start today.  
   
 Q. You said that there were some opportunities out there, are you surprised that there maybe aren't some lower scores right now?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, you know they definitely have let the greens dried out a little bit, some of the pin positions are, are in spots that you feel like you can attack. Sometimes if you just miss it you end up in a bad spot as it happens out here and the bogeys happen. The greens are very slick today, especially first thing in the morning as well, I was quite taken off guard on the first green as well to make a nice 5‑footer comeback for par, after having a 15‑footer for birdie. So that happens out there and you need to be prepared, you never really feel like you're out there, you probably never, you're always cautious and you have to be aware that you're executing well and not get ahead of yourself and even though I made mistakes, I tried to stay calm and just tried to get it back under par.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT