WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 21, 2018
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A great win over the No. 1 seed, the No. 1 player in the world.  What attitude did you bring to the golf course today that helped you get this victory?  
BERND WIESBERGER: I thought it was the easiest game I could have.  I'm the underdog playing with the defending champion, so it was -- just try to go out there and see what happens.   
We both didn't have a great day, obviously, as you can see on the card.  He gave away a couple of holes quite unexpectedly.  You've still got to make the par when your opponent makes the bogey.   
Didn't hit it as great.  The golf course was tough and the wind was gusting.  Just happy to get through.   
 Q.  It's obviously a feather in your cap.  Still you have got two more days, including the match tomorrow.  What do you do to come down from this high and get ready for tomorrow?  
BERND WIESBERGER: It was a good vibe.  It was easy-going out there.  But obviously I know I need to play a little bit better than what I did today to hopefully get another couple victories in the next two days.  I'm expecting tough matches against those two guys.  I need to bring my A game again.  Just a little bit of work later and then have a good couple hours rest and hopefully be ready for tomorrow.   
 Q.  Upset of the day.  World No. 1, defending champ beaten by the world 56.  How do you feel about that victory?  
BERND WIESBERGER: You sound surprised.  To be honest, if you look back at the way we played, it wasn't both of our best days.  He made some mistakes.  I gave him a few holes with bogeys early on and it wasn't pretty.   
 Q.  How much of a surprise was his play out there?  He's been a great player and he's so consistent as well.  Was that difficult to get your head around?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Well, he won the first par.  I came out badly.  He missed some short putts.  He hit good putts but nothing went in for him.  Didn't have a lot of chances really, as well.  And then he hit a couple of wayward tee shots on 3 and 6 which gave me holes.  He wasn't at his best, put it this way.  I'm sure he'll come back tomorrow and have a plan.   
For today, for myself, I was there to take the upset today.   
 Q.  You say you weren't quite there with your game, but how hard is it to deliver your very best when the person you are playing against isn't playing theirs?  
BERND WIESBERGER: It wasn't the easiest.  It feels like it's moving all the time.   
He hit one on 11 that was right on the flag and came up short, went in the water.  I just hit a huge one to the back of the green.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT