ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 18, 2018
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Seven birdies, a couple of bogeys, 67.  You must be pleased with the way it went today?
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, nice start to the year.  I had a good start this afternoon with a couple of birdies early on and yeah, enjoyed myself out there.  Still a couple of loose swings but overall, obviously it's a very nice feeling to be back on Tour playing with those guys in perfect weather and put a decent score on the card.
Q. What pleased you most about your game today?
BERND WIESBERGER: I've got to say, I feel really comfortable on the greens.  I holed a couple of nice putts here and there, so definitely the comfort that I have again after the break on the greens, seeing putts role in again, that's something which I was looking forward starting the year.
Q. You played well around here in previous years.  Has the course changed much?  How is it this week?
BERND WIESBERGER: Feels a little different.  Maybe a little less rough in terms of the height.  You can get a lot of longer clubs -- hole No. 8, in the left rough, you could advance it quite a long way down there, which was a tricky spot to get out of in the past.  Then the greens seem just a little bit softer, even though it was in the afternoon, was certainly able to stop the ball.  So maybe not quite as tough as we've seen it before but that will change over the weekend.
Q. How much did you enjoy last week?
BERND WIESBERGER: That was good fun.  A lovely team, a lot of great players and great guys in the team room.  We had a good challenge from the Asian team.  They played really well, but fortunately we came around on that Sunday and hopefully set a direction for The Ryder Cup.
Q. I know it's very early on in the season, but how special would it be to make your way towards that team?
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, it would be awesome.  Playing well over that and enjoy the golf course, and it starts right here.  I haven't had the best of start to The Ryder Cup points count, but starts right here, first good round here and keep on building the that momentum.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT