NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 9, 2017
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Finally I get to talk to someone who shot 5-under par.  So many people shot four.  What's the secret to success today?
BERND WIESBERGER: It wasn't easy to be honest.  It was quite breezy, quite steady direction-wise, but still the course is quite tricky off the tees.  You want to get a lot of fairways to be able to attack the flags, and that's quite challenging when there's gusty winds.
But played all right.  I've not had great success when I was here last time, but I approached it with a neutral mind, and I played the lot better than I have the last couple weeks and putted good.  Took a couple chances, so that was nice to get out there kind of relaxed and just let it happen.
Q. How intimidating is it on the golf course when the pins are tucked away in such little corners and often you can't see great access to them?
BERND WIESBERGER: A lot of are like four-leaf clovers, in a way.  The greens have a lot of possible tricky, tucked-away pins, and we had a couple today.  Sometimes you just have to play to the center of the green and take two putts.
On holes like 8 I did that today, just find the center and get out with a four.  Sometimes when you've got a good number, the greens are receptive, so sometimes you might as well go for it.
It's a golf course that challenges you from the first to the last, and you've got to be careful.  Ball flies a long way, so that's a factor, as well.  And today we managed to get it all together.  Finally made a lot more birdies than I have the last couple weeks.  Struggled getting the ball in the hole.
I don't want to jinx it, but I felt like I found a little on the putting green again.  A little more pace and confidence.  I didn't necessarily hit it super close but I holed a couple of 10-, 12-footer and 15-footers and that was key to get a good first round going as I did today.
Q. Looks to be quite a few intimidating tee shots in the fairway here.  Keeping the ball in the fairway here is key to scoring low, isn't it.
BERND WIESBERGER: The rough's not really high.  I haven't been here last year, but the guys said it was a bit more challenging if you missed the fairways last year.
Still, you don't know exactly how the ball is going to come out of the rough.  We are in quite high altitude, so the ball is travel, so when you get flyers from the fairways; sometimes it takes off.  You really want to be on the fairways to be able to attack the greens.  For the most part, I've done that all right.  Took a couple of chances when I got the opportunity.
Q. Good performance in Shanghai.  Nice to be feeling that you're getting things right approaching Dubai next week?
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, I played all right in Shanghai.  It was conditions that I kind of prefer, hard over the weekend and kind of plugging away.
I couldn't quite keep up with the pace I had there in Turkey last week.  I knew it's a course where you need a lot more birdies and I didn't quite do that last week.  Got a bit frustrating.
Tried to clear my mind and was ready to go this week.  I had a lot of rest time.  Tried to focus on the time when I was working on my game and not get too much into the heat and conserve energy for the four days out here.  Kind of paid off today for me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT