ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 21, 2017
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  One off the lead, your thoughts?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, it looks pretty packed up there.  I suppose the leader, Martin, is probably going to get some more birdies over the last few holes.   
But it was again, like the first two rounds, not great.  I hit a lot of average wedge shots where I felt I could have had more chances.   
It was a completely different wind out there, different direction, which is unusual for here.  That's always a little bit of adaptation, but I stayed in it all through the round.  And I got a couple of chances towards the end of the front nine and took them, so that was good.  Just trying to get a bit more of a flow going out there.   
 Q.  What's the problem with the wedges?  
BERND WIESBERGER: It's tough clubbing.  Especially 10, 11, and then I hit a bad one on 15, as well.  Tough to get the wind right, exactly right.   
It did switch about 90 degrees on our back nine.  We were straight down on 9 and then we had in off the left on 18, which is almost a 90-degree shift and you have to adapt to that.  I just didn't hit the wedge shots there, so I need to change that for tomorrow.   
 Q.  You had a nice run starting at the sixth.  Talk about that.  
BERND WIESBERGER: I played kind of sloppy up till then.  Missed a couple greens.  Missed a couple shots.  Leaked my drive a little bit.  And then holed maybe a 25-footer for birdie and that kind of gave me a bit of momentum.  Hit good shots on 8 and 9 to set up some easy birdies, so that was nice.   
I lost a little bit on the back nine.  Felt like the whole back nine played into the wind, a bit tricky.  Wasn't quite as high quality golf on the back nine.  But always nice to finish off with a birdie in the round.   
 Q.  Contending again in the Middle East.  What is it about out here?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Just feel pretty comfortable.  As I said yesterday, I wasn't quite sure where this week was going to go in terms of my performance out here, but so far I feel good.  I'm keeping the bogeys off the card.  Just have two for the week and then today.  So just trying to up the birdies tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT