DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 18, 2016
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tell us, if you would, about those final five holes, because that's transformed your day, hasn't it.  
BERND WIESBERGER: It did.  I played really well the first two holes.  I had kind of short ones for birdie and felt really comfortable.  After that, my mid-irons got a bit wayward.  That swing on that 3-wood on 14 really kind of changed momentum and approach to the shot for me.  So that was not only important for the score, but also to get my rhythm on the shots back and get comfortable over the ball again.  Yeah, it was just the right shot at the right time I guess.   
 Q.  Not every day you see two eagles in one round, but two in the last five holes and you're suddenly right up that board.  It really lifts you, doesn't it.  
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, it was a good finish, just what I needed.  I think I took better golf yesterday, just took advantage of those last five holes, which I didn't do yesterday and therefore the score is a lit bitter.   
Definitely the way I played the last five holes, I didn't miss a shot in the last five and that kind of gives me good feelings and good momentum for the weekend.   
 Q.  How do you feel about the way the course is playing this week and the way that you're coping with it?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, I mean, unfortunately they had a bit of trouble so it's not in quite that good condition on the fairway as we have seen but the greens are rolling lovely.  You need to hit the shots well to set up birdies.  All in all I think it's a really good golf course.  Definitely a good finish to our season.   
 Q.  Plenty of players still out on course, but excited now about the weekend?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Yes, excited about the tournament in general.  The 60 best players of the year are here, so it will be -- I don't want to say forced, but encourages me to play well and finish the season well.   
So far I've done pretty good, so I'm looking forward to the weekend and hope we can get some more of those eagles out there the next two days and see what happens.   
As I said, I've had a couple of bad swings through the middle of the round, struggling to find the clubface with the mid-irons and short irons, so that wasn't too pleasing.  Played better the last couple of holes.  Hit my targets better, and just had a good number with my 3-wood, could let go on that one.  It was about 265 up the hill into the wind, really flushed it right on my line and it was just a perfect swing.   
Fortunately for me it stopped pretty straight and from nine feet, and I'm fortunate enough to make that for a good finish.  Obviously it's a hole where you can make three as quickly as you could make a seven, so you've got to be careful and pick your targets, quite small out there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT