TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 5, 2016
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  66 today, what do you make of that performance?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, I don't think I could have shot any worse today.  Played in control except for that last hole.  It's a shame to finish after round off like this but all in all it was a good day.  Loads of chances.  Feels like I don't take advantage of the par 5s all this week, so if I can do that tomorrow, there's another good one in me this week.   
 Q.  Seen lots of birdies on the golf course but plenty of bogeys, as well and that was only your third bogey of the week on 18.  How hard is it with the setup of the course and these greens to keep bogeys off your card?  
BERND WIESBERGER: For me, I hit a lot of greens.  The greens are very large in a way, so even if you come off the rough, which looks fake but the grass is kind of soft, so you can get a shot out of it.   
But obviously if you're out of the fairway which I'm doing, I'm driving it really well this week, it sets up a lot of birdies.  Just one of those weeks where if you're a bit off, it can hurt you a bit but if you get it into the fairways, then it feels like you have a lot of looks at it.   
 Q.  It looks like Thorbjørn might have a sizable lead heading into tomorrow.  What will be your mind-set going into it when you're trying to chase down a big lead like that?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, we'll see how it turns out at the end of the day obviously.  He's definitely playing really well.  I don't know what score he's on right now but obviously I'm a couple behind.  Just trying to get a couple more birdies, maybe early on.  I had a good run around the turn.  If you can put on a bit of pressure, you never know.   
Just get off with a couple of tee shots that don't find the target, it's easy to drop a couple.  But obviously I have to look at myself and just try and make a move up there and we'll see what happens.   
 Q.  Still a few guys to finish, of course, but there's a chance you may be in that last group with him.  Is that something you would like to be or does it not really matter?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, I would like to be in the last group, because a lot of friends and parents are watching, so maybe they will see me a bit more often.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT