TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 3, 2016
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Thoughts on that start?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, obviously I'm happy with the score, to be up there with the leaders.  That's good.  Obviously had a really nice finish with a couple of tap-ins for birdie and a nice finish on the last but all in all, I felt -- it was a bit mixed feelings out there really, a couple of holes got a bit grumpy and maybe left some shots out there.  But all in all, with the score I'm quite happy to start the week that way.   
 Q.  It's a lovely score if you're not entirely 100 percent, isn't it?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, well, I guess it's been a long year for all of us.  But still, there's a lot to play for.  Need to come out tomorrow again and motivate myself again like I did today the last couple of holes, which are really good to turn it a bit around.   
And therefore, quite happy with the way that the day turned out.   
 Q.  Given that it's a long and tiring season, does it kind of help that you're playing in a resort course and that everything is laid on for you?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, it's pretty nice here.  You've got to say pretty spoiled with everything.  Obviously the course is playing really nicely and the conditions are good.  Everybody enjoys their time here, and obviously the resort has a lot to offer.  So it feels like kind of going away from holiday to play a little bit of golf out here.  But I think it also kind of helps you get out there and enjoy it and you feel relaxed when you get off the course.   
 Q.  While it's a resort course, it's not straightforward all the time.  It's not necessarily easy out there.  
BERND WIESBERGER: No, a couple of hilly holes and a couple of tee shots that you want to be careful with.  I'm sure they have had the easiest pins for us this week so far.  Today's pins have to be the easiest.  They can tuck them away on the greens, a couple of small ridges here and there which will make it tough to get it close.  We're going to feel a bit stronger golf course I think coming the next couple days.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT