TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 2, 2016
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What do you think of playing a tee shot from a roof of a villa?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, it's a first.  It's the first tee shot I've hit so far on the course, as well, so made quite an impression.  Yeah, I think it's great, something different.  Promoting obviously the resort here and the golf club, so I think it's a good idea.  I'm not sure if somebody is staying in there, if we are disturbing anyone for an early tee time, but hopefully they are okay with that.   
 Q.  When you are up there, I take it you're feeling the wind.  
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, today it's breezy.  The ball is up in the air quite high off that rooftop, so you want to allow for the wind a little bit.  But hopefully we'll get calmer conditions during the week so it won't affect it too much from up there.   
 Q.  Is it just a gimmick, or is it good fun, something that really gets you talking about golf?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Well, obviously you asked me about it, so it gets us talking about it.  I'm not sure it's going to be there all four days during the week.  But the odd day from up there maybe on the weekend should be good fun, yeah.   
 Q.  I know it's the first hole you've played, but do you like what you see generally?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, you know, we got in yesterday from the World Golf Championships.  Had a really nice flight over.  Everybody looked after us really well.  Feel really good here.  The resort's really nice, obviously like the last couple years.   
We see how the golf course is.  I played here a couple years ago at The Challenge Tour.  It has changed a little bit, with the resort being built after that, and there was a hole running right here which is gone now but they added one on the front nine now, so it kind of changed a little bit.   
But still, I remember most of the holes from back then.  Conditions look really good looking forward to the week really.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT