BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
October 16, 2016
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Thoughts on the week?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, really, really good playing again.  It wasn't easy out there today.  I didn't drive it really well the first nine, which was really hard because I felt really comfortable with drives the first three days.  Yeah, just had to find a couple more fairways and felt more comfortable on the back nine.   
Unfortunately this week was not quite my week on the greens.  But to finish well in a strong field like this, it helps going into the final couple of events this year.   
 Q.  When you get the birdie and you're tied for the lead, anything can happen, can't it?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, I had a good look on 16, but maybe just a bit firm on it.  Would have loved to have seen it drop obviously.  Just took a decision on 18.  It wasn't the best of lives but just made a decision and didn't come off as we wished and I didn't get up-and-down.   
All in all, I would have loved to squeeze another birdie in there, give him something to think about coming up the last.  But you know, still very happy with my performance.   
 Q.  I know there are some misgivings, but given this string of Top-10 finishes, is this about the best, consistently, that you've played?  
BERND WIESBERGER: I want to say not quite there where I've been last year, early on and obviously when I won in France, I would say is the most steady I've been.  But after that hard drive that goes under pressure, goes a bit sideways, one leaking right, one leaking left on the last two, that shouldn't happen.  But given the results, it shows that it's getting close.   
 Q.  And with big events to come?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, looking forward to a week off now next week.  Recover a bit from the cold.  But it was a beautiful afternoon today.  We got lucky with the weather as bad as it looked early on but a bit of rest and important events to still play for, a lot down the stretch, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT