100TH OPEN DE FRANCE
July 2, 2016
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You told us earlier in the week that you were focused on staying patient.  Was that the key to today's 70 that started bogey, bogey?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, definitely.  You could see especially with my partner in the group starting really well, I kind of knew stick to what I'm doing.  Unfortunately early on I didn't play particularly good golf.  Missed a couple of shots, but I kind of steadied down.  I didn't play great all day but at least I kept going on and kept the mistakes off the card.  Scrambled well after that, ended up with a couple chances, which was good, and still in position.   
 Q.  You came from three shots behind to win here last year and shot 65, may be difficult to do but you must be looking forward to the opportunity to defend?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, position couldn't be any better.  I'm right up there.  I have played well on Sundays here, so everything is in place.  Just get a good rest for tomorrow and try to continue where I left off today.  Just hitting solid shots.  Maybe getting a bit close to the hole and making some putts at the right time.   
 Q.  What do you think of your third round?  
BERND WIESBERGER: The start wasn't great.  Obviously off the tee, straight into the drink and started with two bogeys.  That wasn't the way I planned it.  But I played all right after that, not particularly great.  Nothing worth mentioning actually but kept plugging away.  Kept making pars and took a couple chances when I had them.  Weren't many out there for me today.  Took some at least and finished under par which was decent under the conditions.   
 Q.  That's showing the resilience that's necessary around Le Golf National, isn't it?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, obviously I wasn't happy with the start but you've still got to keep on plugging away, keep on trying to make decent swings.  That's what I did today.   
It helps if you feel comfortable on a golf course, but as I said yesterday, you should never feel too comfortable out here.  You should feel relaxed but not too safe in a way because it bites you quickly and just be aware of that.  Hit good golf shots and you can get rewarded.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT