100TH OPEN DE FRANCE
June 30, 2016
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Terrific golf winning this championship last year, how good was today?  
BERND WIESBERGER: It was pretty good.  Especially in the beginning, I hit some quality shots.  Then I felt like after 7, 8, I kind of left a couple out there, but still had a good round, and especially get a couple birdies late in the round.  Obviously I enjoy my time around this track and feel like I played well and very pleased with the round today.   
 Q.  How big is the feel-good factor when you come back to a championship you won last time around?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Definitely, you never know how it's going to turn out the following year, but every time I come back here, I enjoy playing this place.  I was doing the right things today, hitting good tee shots and got myself into position, and that's the key around here.   
 Q.  Form early part of the year was okay, but you had to wait until Austria three weeks ago for your first Top-10 and you made your second Top-10 last week.  Has something clicked?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Well, I thought I was making a bit too many mistakes compared to last year, where I was playing really well, and just avoiding the big numbers and getting more birdies on the scorecard and that kind of didn't help me this year.   
I felt like I did the right things but it wasn't coming together.  Just trying to be patient and keep on doing things I feel are going to improve my golf.  At some point it's going to go your way again.  So just a matter of staying patient and take every week as a new one.   
Lately I've been feeling more confident on the golf course, avoiding those mistakes, making more birdies and therefore a bit closer I feel like to where I want to be on the scoreboard.   
 Q.  We consider that a champion's performance.  How do you look on it?  
BERND WIESBERGER: It was decent today.  I played good golf.  All aspects of the game were quite good today, and therefore I'm pretty pleased with the round.  It wasn't easy, had a bit of rain and the wind was up.  But I felt comfortable.  I stepped over the ball and I felt like I knew what it's going to do on any club, and yeah, there for I'm pretty pleased with my first round.   
 Q.  Presumably you're all the more comfortable when you got off to a flying start like that with three birdies in four holes.  
BERND WIESBERGER: That was pretty good.  I hit quality shots and made a couple of putts, as well.  That was good.   
Unfortunately kind of slowed it down a little bit after that with a couple of wayward shots around 7, 8 and 9, but back nine, I felt I was in control.  On the back nine I didn't quite convert as good as I would have hoped, but in a decent position.   
 Q.  You mentioned wind and rain.  How much does that affect things on the course the way it was this afternoon?  
BERND WIESBERGER: It really depends where it hits you.  We got hit on the 6th green and the wind was down wind, so it wasn't a bit of an issue, but if you get that on 17 or 4, it obviously affects it a bit much.  So we were unlucky we got some rain but lucky with the position on the golf course to have not too much trouble.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT