EURASIA CUP PRESENTED BY DRB-HICOM
January 16, 2016
Ross Fisher
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How pleasing was that?  
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, very.  We played well.  We just said to each other, fairways and greens.  Just try and keep the ball in play.  Make as many birdies as we can.  But ultimately, just don't give any holes away to dropping shots.  I think Bernd just said there, we must have been I think 7- or 8-under and we didn't drop a shot, which in foursomes golf is fantastic.  Yeah, I'm delighted to get through there.   
 Q.  That seemed a tight match but you prevailed in some good style there.  
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, that was a very tough game.  I played K.T. yesterday, and played with him before, I knew he was a steady player.  I never played with Wang before.  They are a good pairing.  We threw everything at them.  We went for a nice little spell around the turn, birdie, eagle, birdie, and I think we might have scraped one hole, maybe two.  So that was the quality of the golf.  So yeah, to come out last was not what we really wanted, but I was quite pleased to walk up and see that shot pretty close.  Delighted to come through.   
 Q.  Your captain said he had arranged these foursomes in advance.  You played together on the Wednesday, but essentially, he knew what he wanted and you two should work well together.  So has this plan come to the fore as he expected?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, looking at it now, we've played a gross score, 7-under through 18, which is pretty good in foursomes.  So that team we had set up for today worked out really well.  Although I have to say the Asian pairing together played really well.  We had to go all the way and played some really good golf.   
Similar like yesterday, in my fourballs, around the turn, we played great.  But they went out and made three birdies on the stretch, as well, on us, so we only had one hole up on us after 12.  But we kept plugging away, kept hitting a lot of shots, give almost, on 10, 15 and the last.  We didn't let them come close, and they were chipping in, so it was a really good effort for us today.   
 Q.  A lot of red on that board for a while.  Nice to look at the blue again, isn't it.  
ROSS FISHER: I must say, I was having a look, I don't know if Bernd was, but you could see a bit of red, and they got off to a good start, but I knew the quality that myself and Bernd had, we just wanted to, like we said, keep the ball in the fairway.  Just put it in the fairway, fairways and greens.  I know he's a good putter and I had a really good day on the greens yesterday, I feel really comfortable on them.  I knew if Bernd could hit me on the greens, I felt really comfortable.  We gelled really well.  7-under for 18 holes and we only won 2-up, so that only shows you the quality of Bernd and myself and the Asian guys.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT