PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 16, 2015
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BEMD WIESBERGER: I'm really hitting my driver well.  Want to stay out of the rough here and then get some chances.  Obviously a good drive set up a perfect position to take the flag.  It's a bit of luck you need to go in, but (indiscernible).   
 Q.  You weren't entirely happy with the greens on the first afternoon.  Were they better for you on a second morning?  And just knowing that you're still going out in a good position, did that help?  
BEMD WIESBERGER: Well, you can't expect if you have a course that is somewhat soft with quite a lot of grass and a lot of players going over it, in the afternoon the greens were turned a bit spikey, and that's what they did on the back nine especially yesterday.  But you have to adapt.  I definitely holed some good putts even though the greens were not as pure as they were this morning.   
Today we found a really good set up golf course and the greens were nice.  Yeah, I think it's just when you play in the afternoon, you can expect the greens to be a spikey.   
 Q.  You've been aware, as everybody is, about the forecast for the weekend.  Was that something that was in your psychology, as well, playing the first two days, in your way aggressive maybe even more so than usual?  
BEMD WIESBERGER: Yeah, I heard this morning that we might not play much more golf this weekend.  Let's hope and see.  Let's hope we get a get a bit of golf in there, especially in my position where we can make something happen.  Of course, it doesn't look good on the weekend.  Wait and see.   
 Q.  Your position can make something happen on the Race to Dubai, as well, all the points and money?  
BEMD WIESBERGER: Yeah, I've got a bit of gap there between myself and the No. 6.  But, yeah, everything counts.  We're in a Ryder Cup qualification here, and every dime counts there as well.  So hoping for another good finish this weekend.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT