THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2020
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BERND WIESBERGER: I've been on the phone with a lot of people at home, family, friends, and it's very bad out there. Obviously most sports events get canceled, teams get quarantined, individuals get quarantined. I think it's a first step to try and have the smallest possible impact on everyone, not just us players or those involved with the TOUR but everyone. To be quite honest, I think it will go further than that. If you look at the bigger picture, nobody knows if somebody is dragging it into our locker room and everything, and everyone is going to be in quarantine, so that wouldn't be good, obviously, but I think a good first step has been made by the PGA TOUR and also by the European Tour, the Asian Tour. Everyone is kind of in the same boat there.   
But unfortunately I don't think it will be the end of bad news and development in sports and people gathering in general, but for now it's going to be weird playing in front of no one. But you never know what's down the road the next couple weeks, either.   
 Q.  How distracting and uncomfortable does that make you?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Not playing in front of crowds?   
 Q.  No, this whole scenario.  
BERND WIESBERGER: I'm not scared. First of all, I laughed it off in a way, but in the bigger picture I've got a mom at home who's asthmatic who obviously has respiratory issues, a grandmother who's just turning 89 today, and these are the people that could get potentially into some dangerous situations. For me personally or anyone out there competing, I think it's not as big of an issue because everybody is healthy, trying to stay healthy, clean and all that and shake it off. Not for me personally, but obviously it's bigger picture, and I'm thinking of family at home, which I don't know when I'm going to see. Flights have been canceled coming over from Europe, so it's a weird situation for me.   
You know, I'm trusting everyone who's involved here to make decisions for the best of everyone's interest, and we go from there.   
 Q.  What will your travel setup be now? Are you still trying to figure that out?  
BERND WIESBERGER: I have no idea. I came over, I had planned my schedule to be here for this week, Valspar, Match Play and then have a week off before Augusta. My family can't travel to Augusta now, they've got the travel ban from Europe for 30 days and potentially longer than that. There's not going to be any planes coming over from Europe to take me back to Europe, so I have no idea. I just had a few calls and a few discussions before the round, which obviously doesn't help going out into a golf tournament like this, but we'll figure it out. Hopefully everybody stays healthy and safe and the right precautions are made and somehow I'll get back to my family. Ideally this virus is going to pass through quicker than is expected, but for now we'll have to sit tight and see what happens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT