ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 2, 2015
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Clubhouse leader with a round of 3‑under par, how well do you feel you played today?  
BERND WIESBERGER:   I played okay.   I was not driving it great early on, and I scrambled around, had a couple of 4‑, 5‑footers for par.   But the chances I had, I took nicely, and yeah, just those two hiccups on the last, the 3‑putt and not getting up‑and‑down from beside the green on No.9.   
But in general, I think with the conditions, it was pretty windy early on, so I was quite happy with that.  
   
 Q.   Very few rounds under par.   Give us a sense of what's making it so difficult out there.   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Definitely the wind is firming up the course.   Obviously the conditions, the heat, is drying out the course.   Got to be careful there.   Some tricky pins, as well, which you can go for, and kind of awkward putts for par.   
Yeah, I think it's just a great test overall.   The first hole onwards to the last you're going to be a bit under pressure and you need to hit really good shots to make birdies.   Luckily I made a few of those, and I was really happy with my start today.  
   
 Q.   In recent tournaments you've had some mixed fortunes, second place in Irish Open where you lost in a playoff but also some missed cuts.   How are you feeling about your game coming in here?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   I felt like I was‑‑ except for Wentworth where I played terrible, I like the courses where you get challenged a bit more and you're not shooting about 15‑, 16‑, 17‑under par to win, which was the case obviously in Ireland.   I played really decent golf at the U.S. Open.   Just had three complete shockers which it's really easy to run into and that killed my score.   
But apart from that, I was quite happy with the way I played.   And last week I was a bit tired obviously from the travel, but I had some shots that I don't normally have.   Still was making a lot of birdies.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT