DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
May 29, 2015
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What was the key to the run, birdie, birdie, eagle?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   I'm hitting it much better than last week.   I put in some work on the weekend after what was a disappointing week at Wentworth.   I drove the ball really nicely so far this week.   It's important here, the fairways are not wide, to get chances, you need to come out of the fairway.   I think I've done is pretty well today.  
   
 Q.   Describe the putt on 9.   
BERND WIESBERGER:   It wasn't much in it.   It was going a bit both ways, so I kept it pretty straight.   I hit the back of the hole but I'll take it.   Holed a couple good ones late on the front nine.   
   
 Q.   First visit to this course and Northern Ireland, some people rank this course as one of the very best in the world.   What do you think?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   I think it takes some time to figure the course out.   Obviously if you play well and really enjoy it out there and accept the challenge ‑‑ it can bite you, as well.   You see a lot of guys struggling out there.   I'm doing generally pretty well on courses that play tough and hard.   That's the kind of mind‑set I went into and it's just a beautiful course out there and just have to appreciate it.  
   
 Q.   After two missed cuts the other day, what turned things around for you?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   I didn't start well the last couple tournaments.   Struggled with my ball‑striking and I put in some good work over the weekend at Wentworth, stayed there and tried to grind things out.   I see a lot of improvement in most of the areas where I've been struggling, and, yeah, it's been a good improvement since last Friday.  
   
 Q.   A lot of people came to know you in the US tournaments in the PGA Championship in the final round playing in the last group, what did you learn from that experience?  
BERND WIESBERGER:   To be there more often, it's a great experience.   Wasn't quite the Sunday I would have hoped for but it showed me that I can be up there with the best and if my game is in good shape‑‑ I took a lot of positives out of it.   Especially it helps you're playing in the last couple of groups and for the win.   That definitely was a great experience and hopefully can get myself there a couple more times.  
   
 Q.   Considering the conditions, is this 67 one of the best rounds of your career?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   The back nine were definitely some of the best I've played.   Obviously got to hole a couple of putts and sometimes you've got to scramble a little bit.   I played pretty well today.   Even though I don't think anyone was going out there today without any dropped shots‑‑ it's hard.   I really, really enjoyed the challenge out there and considering all that, I think this is one of my best rounds, yeah.   
   
 Q.   We were talking in the PGA that you wanted to move to San Diego.   After days like today, this is a good reason why.   
BERND WIESBERGER:   I love playing in the States in general.   I've had a couple of tournaments over there and really enjoyed it.   San Diego would be probably in shorts and tee shirts on the golf course today and I have four layers on right now.   
You've just got to take it as it comes out here.   Like I said, we were standing on the 7th green and it felt like four degrees and the rain coming sideways and you stand on the 8th green and you want to take clothes off.   It's just what you get out here.   
   
 Q.   Initially, for a moving 4‑over par, to be involved in a tournament like this, that must be thrilling, isn't it?  
BERND WIESBERGER:   Obviously for me it feels like a lot tougher than the back nine.   After I made that putt on 12 yesterday for an eagle, it kind of turned things a little bit around and I'm finding more chances and taking the opportunity to take care of some of them.   Yeah, it's been good so far.  
   
 Q.   Everybody said how difficult it is out there but I take it you made it look pretty easy for a time.   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Well, as I said, I was driving it really nicely, and even with the tight‑ish fairways, I was hitting the fairways, and that obviously helps a lot going into the greens.   I think that's key out here, driving the ball nicely, and then you can actually have a couple of chances out there, especially the par 5s are good opportunity to make birdies.   
But you know, if you're just off a little bit, it doesn't take much, and you get into positions where you have to scramble a lot, it gets difficult.   You need to stay focused out there.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel in general about The Irish Open and links golf itself?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Well, I've only played one Irish Open.   It was at Killarney way back.   Everybody said how good the tournament is and it never really fit in my schedule since.   So I decided this year to come back.   I heard very good things and had not been to Northern Ireland either.   So far I think it's been a good choice.  
   
 Q.   In this kind of position going to the weekend, presumably your expectations heighten?  
BERND WIESBERGER:   Just take it as it comes.   I've had a couple disappointing weeks leading up to this.   Just appreciating the work I've put in the last couple of days after Wentworth paid off so far.   It's going to be a challenging weekend again, and just try to take every day as it goes and hopefully I can produce some more good golf out there.  
   
 Q.   Is it possible to predict what kind of score might win on Sunday?  
BERND WIESBERGER:   Depends on the weather.   If you get some more big rain clouds coming in with gusts, it's not going to help scores a lot.   
I think if you keep the same kind of weather, a couple under par probably will win this tournament and I think that would be a great score out here.  
   
 Q.   Windy conditions like this are quite difficult.   Is a lot of it to do with the mental approach to the game?  
BERND WIESBERGER:   Definitely.   Yesterday I was four over par after 11 holes and kind of not feeling the love out there.   It just takes one or two good shots and good breaks sometimes to get you right back into it.   I had a good break on 12 yesterday, making an eagle and another long putt for birdie later on and all of a sudden you're 1‑over and you're in the Top‑25.   It's marginal, and you've got to stay‑‑ especially out here, you've got to stay very patient.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT