OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 29, 2015
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  BERND WIESBERGER:   Solid back nine I have to say.   Got on a run at the end.   Could have birdied my last six holes there.   Yeah, good finish to today.   
   
 Q.   What caused that?   You're going along nicely, everything is going fine and then birdie at 13 and you caught fire.   What was it?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Yeah, I struggled with my putting early on, I didn't even get to the hole.   It was a bit of a weird feeling the first couple of holes.   Finally hit one close on No. 6.   Got a nice birdie on 9.   Then took advantage of the back nine.   Once I got the pace right on the greens, which was a bit slower than I expected it, then it went nicely.  
   
 Q.   They were measuring 13 this morning and maybe slowed down a bit this afternoon, but faster than last week; a little bit tricky?  
BERND WIESBERGER:   I think I got fooled by the grain maybe.   Just read too much into it and didn't quite trust the pace.   
So I left some out there early on but then I settled in nicely and hit some good putts.   
   
 Q.   When you arrive at the golf course and see some of these wonderful scores, 7‑under, 6‑under, what goes through your mind?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   To make some birdies obviously.   But I've always played well here at the Majelis.   I know I can make a lot of birdies out here.   
   
 Q.   A little bit of a breeze, it's flat calm; did that come into play at all?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Not really, no.   At max it was half a club to a club wind, and it played nicely.   Actually made it cool down a little bit.   It was quite hot out there.   Didn't make too much of a difference, I would say.   
   
 Q.   Five birdies on the spin is fantastic; anything else stand out?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Yeah, just a bit disappointed to miss that last.   It would be my first 63 out there but still a great day.   
It was a special back nine today.   Played really well from 9 onwards, really.   I hit a lot of birdies.   I didn't quite jump off that train really and it was nice to get to 8‑under par.   
   
 Q.   Did something click on the back nine that just got that birdie after birdie after birdie?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   No, it was just that I had a bit of problem with the pace of the greens early on and I left a lot of quite good chances short, which I didn't like really.   And putting was a bit fearful, but that was down to the bad pace I had early on.   Then I took two chances before the turn and then felt really comfortable with my swing.   Gave myself a lot of chances and took most of them.   
   
 Q.   I presume you're feeling comfortable in general terms off back of what you achieved in Qatar last week.   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Yeah, you never know what's going to happen the following week, but you know, I've prepared well for this week again.   Tried to do the same things.   Yeah, it feels good right now.   I feel quite happy with what I expect out of my game.   When I'm in trouble, I know I can scramble well, which is the part you don't see right now because I hit the ball quite nicely.   So I feel really comfortable.   
   
 Q.   And a course that's suited you in the past, as well, hasn't it?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   It has.   I've played well here after a horrible start last year where I missed my two cuts in Abu Dhabi and Qatar.   I would probably say it's the course that suits my game the best out of the three.   Today it showed I think.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT