ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 18, 2020
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  We greatly enjoyed watching you coax is around in 65 strokes today. What was the secret to that performance for you there?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Hit a lot of greens. Didn't look like it on the last hole, I have to say. It was a bit wayward. I tried the width of Abu Dhabi National there, but the rest I was really good off the tee.   
I struggled the first two days. I think I hit more fairways today than I did the first two days, and normally then I can get myself into positions to take on the flags, which I did well. Funny enough I hit a couple really nice ones into some of the holes on the back nine, didn't take them and oddly enough made a few at the end, 18-, 20-footers which kind of evened them out.   
 Q.  A lot of changes in the year, and it has done for you, three wins, two Rolex Series Events, third in The Race to Dubai, the end of the season. Just let us know, where you are, how different a player you are mentally to where you are 12 months ago when you stepped on the first tee here to how you feel right now?  
BERND WIESBERGER: It's worlds apart of the last year, anybody who has been an injured athlete and coming back from that, you never know quite how you perform and certainly I wasn't performing to the standard I was maybe used to or expecting of myself.   
So it's tough to adjust, and keep doing the things that you think are right. I think I did that well, and obviously getting the win under my belt early-ish in the year, that really helped myself-confidence and we were able to progress from there nicely.   
But yeah, it's been a lot of changes the last 12 months for sure.   
 Q.  Looking forward to tomorrow, you mentioned some good driving. What's the big thing in your golf game you need to capture a third Rolex Series title?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Well, the course off the tee looked different today than yesterday, given this different wind direction. A lot of the holes played completely different. If I keep being positive with my drives, stay within my bottle there and just pick my target and hit it there, I'm very confident with my irons right now and the putter is starting to warm up, as well. I'm looking forward to Sunday.   
 Q.  How did you find it today?  
BERND WIESBERGER: Very pleased with today's work. Obviously at the end it was a little bit wayward at the last but glad to hole a nice putt on the last green to come home in 65, and it was quite good.   
But I drove it really nicely all day today, long and straight, which always helps and I was quite comfortable with my irons, getting it dialed in. Unfortunately left a few putts out there on the back nine, but all in all, I was able to pick up some longer ones on the last few holes. Very pleased with today's results.   
 Q.  Don't know if you got bored with seeing so many fairways, but you got a little adventuresome on 18 and still walked off with the birdie.  
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, not my best on the last, hit a path and went into the waste, sand area there and got quite a good lie and hit another wayward one. As far as on the scorecard, nothing else counts, but the rest was pretty neat.   
I think I just missed one green and that was just off the fringe on 6, and the rest, putting for birdie, which was good.   
 Q.  You seemed to have a better command of the greens than anybody today. Did you start to read them better or was your stroke better?  
BERND WIESBERGER: I just feel quite comfortable. Sometimes with me if I get a good tempo, I like putting on these greens, and I feel like I have a good understanding of the pace of the green.   
You know, if you're confident on the greens, you can make a few out here, but if you're just off the green, it makes it a bit more frustrating. But so far, it's been good on the greens and hopefully continue that into tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT