COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 23, 2015
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   4‑under par, what are your thoughts on that performance?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Yeah, started quite nicely, two kick‑in birdies on the second and third.   Yeah, I had a good front nine, a couple of grinding par putts on 7 and on 10, which is good to keep the momentum.   I played all right.   Not quite as good as I did yesterday.   
Obviously my driving was not up there and I didn't play to my strength, which is the iron game I think this week.   Couldn't get myself into the position for making birdies, and then kind of had to come down to a bad drive on 16 where I made bogey there.   It was a very good birdie opportunity.   It was a two‑shot swing for me there, but still tied for the lead.   Birdie on the last to get some momentum for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   What happened on 16, because you seemed to be swinging it pretty good from our position, but just went left.   What happened?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   I don't know, I got told by one of the camera guys that the Austrian didn't win at the Super Chi, so I was quite disappointed; probably had that thought back in my head and I pulled it.  
No, maybe tried to be too cute, tried to stay left of the flag to give myself a good angling.   Bad swing and getting on top a little bit and pulling it.   That's exactly what I did there.   Yeah, if you can minimise those bad swings tomorrow, I'll be fine.   
   
 Q.   Didn't take advantage of the first three par 5s, but a sense of unfinished business coming down there at the last?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Yeah, I was in a bad position on the par 5s.   I was over in the rough on one, had a good chance though.   Unlucky on 10 with the lie, and really tried to jump on a gap wedge came out hooking and was happy to make a par there are.  
Good more momentum to finish off the day with a birdie and try to get more birdies on the par5 tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Got a target in mind tomorrow?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Yeah, I think you have to look at something like 66, 67, depending on the conditions, but I think it's going to be nice again.   The course is playing beautifully, so got to shoot low.   
   
 Q.   Nice tidy score has pushed you up to the top again.   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Yeah, it's nice to start the day in the lead and hang onto keep it.   Everybody seems to be playing really well and yeah, I enjoyed it out there.   I didn't play my best like I did yesterday, but took the chances when I had to, or when I could.   
Just that bad swing on 16, which cost me a bogey there, so it's really a two‑shot swing on a short hole like this.   But you know, finished nicely with a birdie and gives me a bit of momentum for tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   I guess that birdie is important just to keep you up there in that same way.   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Yeah, it's a tight flag and you've got to keep your nose together, hit a good shot in there to make birdie and that's what I did.   As I say, hopefully can take that momentum into tomorrow and definitely better to finish with that.   
Didn't feel like I had a chance last week because I was obviously like seven shots behind going into the round.   If I had known before the round what's going to happen, might have changed my mind‑set at least.   
But yeah, tomorrow is a good chance.   Obviously a lot of talent up there on the leaderboard, and that's going to take‑‑ everybody knows to stay up there, they need to make a couple of birdies, and so do I.   Yeah, I'm looking forward to tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Try to get off to the same kind of flying start?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Yeah, it was good.   Hit a nice wedge into 2 and a really good 5‑iron which I thought might have just came up a little short but pitched perfectly for that flag.   Was nice to get a quick start and yeah, unfortunately I couldn't quite take the par 5s today.   So maybe if I improve my performance there tomorrow, and get the driving a bit more back into shape, I've got a good look at it.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT