ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 16, 2015
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What do you think of seven under after the halfway stage?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Yeah, nice.   It was just my second competitive round this year, this season, so nice to get a good start, especially as I didn't start off so well last year.   I mean, we had perfect conditions the first two days, so everybody is taking advantage.   It was good that I could get myself in the mix, as well.   
   
 Q.   Score‑wise, modest on the first day but really got it firing today?  
BERND WIESBERGER:   Yeah, I didn't drive it well.   I didn't hit a lot of greens yesterday, so I could have been lower yesterday, but it was all right, good start into the year.   I had a couple weeks off to be honest so was feeling a bit rusty coming in.   But yeah, I played really nicely.   Today, hit more greens and the putter is working really well so far.   So I was quite pleased with the round today.  
   
 Q.   Something you've done in the off‑season to make sure it's a fast start?  
BERND WIESBERGER:   Went skiing, so maybe that helped.   No, nothing else.   I took a good friend of mine to Mallorca for a couple of days just before I flew out here, so that was a good warm up before.   But took it quite easy over the holidays, and yeah, just very rested.  
   
 Q.   Good to get the balance right, because you need the rest, doing something like skiing just gets your mind entirely off golf, and yet you had the sun on your back to hit a few shots as well?  
BERND WIESBERGER:   It was good, spending time with the family, my girlfriend and a couple nice days in the snow.   I enjoy skiing, so it was a good get away for me and good to get away from the golf, as well, a little bit.   I think you need that after a long season, and so yeah, maybe that's my routine for the next couple years.  
   
 Q.   Do you set targets, resolutions for the year ahead?  
BERND WIESBERGER:   No, just keep on working on the same things that I have the last couple of months, couple years, trying to get better, trying to improve a couple of stats that I'm not as far up as I would hope to be, and get myself back more towards the Top‑50.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT