PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2014
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KELLY ELBIN: Bernd Weisberger of Austria is in at 201, tied for the lead late in the third round of the 96th PGA Championship.   Looks like you had everything going right.  
BERND WIESBERGER:   It was good out there.   I really enjoyed playing with Phil first of all.   We had some good crowds cheering, cheering him mainly, it was a good experience, and very proud the way I played today obviously.   
KELLY ELBIN:   The 65 is his low round in a major championship.   He hit 12 of 14 fairways and 16 of 18 greens in regulation.  
If you would just briefly go through the birdies, starting with the birdie at 4, please.  
BERND WIESBERGER:   Well,4, they put up the tee box today to give us a chance to go for the green.   I was just a little bit in‑between clubs, between driver and 3‑wood, and I knew it was going to fly, my driver, all the way to the flag and it was a small target and went with 3‑wood.   Just a mis‑hit just short of the left bunker which was a good leave.   Had a good pitch up there and converted maybe a 6‑footer or 5‑footer for birdie.   Yeah, good miss on that tee shot.   
9, I had a couple of chances, not really close looks.   But on 8 I had a 12‑footer for birdie that I missed.   On 9 I hit a good tee shot on the left side which kind of opened up the green to the flag and I had a good look at it and hit it in close about three or four feet.   It was a good shot up the hill.   Set up with a good tee shot I guess.   Yeah, kind of an easy birdie for me after that approach.   
KELLY ELBIN:   12 and the final three holes, please.  
BERND WIESBERGER:   12, I kind of pulled a bit my 3‑wood into the left rough and fortunately found quite a good lie on the slope there.   Had a decent yardage, wind helping as well, and was not a hit‑and‑hope but tried to get my 6‑iron in there.   Had about 210 yards to the flag and came out perfect online.   Took it up to eight, nine feet and could convert that one.   Was good.   
A bit conservative on the next three holes where I just tried to get within 20, 25 feet, a bit tucked pin positions, especially the one on 15.   I was on the right side of the fairway and pin behind the tree, I didn't want to go too straight at it.  
16 to 18 was nice birdies, the easiest you could have it.   The tee shot on 16, we didn't like the view of that hole.   Always hit a good tee shot there, and then up close with a 6‑iron to kick‑in distance.   
Again birdie setup on 17 with a good drive.   Had a perfect yardage for an 8‑iron and almost holed that one.  
And yeah, probably the worst swing of the day was on the second one on 18.   I was a little bit under‑clubbed.   Just tried to go at it.   Just came out of the heal a little bit but had a good leave and was a bit fortunate and had a good chip up the hill for a final birdie.   
   
 Q.   Many U.S. fans are going to be surprised to see an Austrian near the top of the leaderboard in a major.   Could you give us a little bit of background on how you got into the game?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Well, yeah, we're not too many Austrians out on Tour.   Maybe you know Markus Brier who was the first Austrian on Tour and first winner on Tour, on The European Tour, from Austria.  
But myself, I got introduced to the game from my parents, especially from my father.   They had quite a big sports store back in Austria and a pro shop close by and a golf club.   When they opened up that course there, started playing, as well, and that's how I got introduced to the game.   
   
 Q.   How old were you when you started playing?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   I was‑‑ I think the first golf shots kind of made when I was three or four years old.   But I started doing it more seriously when I was eight, nine, when I would go to the range and hack around a little bit.   And then really started practicing maybe from 13, 14 onwards when you get into the national squads and stuff.   
   
 Q.   Can you correctly pronounce your first name for us?  
BERND WIESBERGER:   Well, in German you would say Bernd.   The r is more like a silent a.   
   
 Q.   Given your history in major championships, does this seem at all surreal?   Have you surprised yourself this week?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   I know what I'm capable of doing.   I know if I drive the ball well and don't get ahead of myself, I can play good golf.   You know, I was kind of surprised that I was really calm today out on the first tee box.   We had great crowds there with Phil.   And hitting the first tee shot down the center obviously was a bit of a relief there.   
You know, as I said, I've never played well in the Majors.   I've played well in the other bigger events in Europe and won a couple.   It's not the same, but you kind of get a feeling for what you have to do, how you have to handle yourself.   It's just on a different level.   But, you know, things are still the same.   You're still out there with your caddie trying to do the best you can.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned on TV that Phil was your favorite player.   What was it like playing with him today, and how and why did he become your favorite player, and when?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Well, to be completely truthful, I would have to add Ernie to that list probably.   But you know, the way he interacts with the crowds and the way he handles himself on the golf course, and obviously the record he has is amazing, and something that I'm trying to achieve, as well, at some point in my career.  
He's really nice I guess with the younger players, as well.   He was really nice with me out there today.   We had a good couple of chats and a couple laughs out there, so it was never really an uptight situation.   It was really relaxed all the round through.   
   
 Q.   How many people in Austria are rooting for you today?   Is golf a big sport at all back in Austria?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Well, given a population of just over 8 million people, we have around a 100,000 golfers in the golf clubs.   So I would reckon about 90,000 would be on the TV by now; at least I hope so (smiling).   
   
 Q.   Where was the town that you grew up in, that your father had the sports shop in, what town or city?  
BERND WIESBERGER:   Well, it's in Obewart in Austria.   It's roughly I would say an hour and a half southeast of Vienna.   We live in a very Eastern part of Austria.   I'm still a resident in that town.  
   
 Q.   What's your handicap at skiing?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   I would give myself probably a high single handicap, eight probably.   I'm decent.   I'm not going to fall unless somebody runs me over.   
   
 Q.   Do you know Franz Klammer?  
BERND WIESBERGER:   Peter Kostis came up to me this morning on the range.   Franz Klammer told him to send his best wishes, and that was really nice because I know he's a keen golfer, as well.   He always plays in the Dunhill Links.   Yeah, so I'm sure Franz is rooting, as well.   
   
 Q.   As of now, you'll be in the last group tomorrow with McIlroy.   Will there be any intimidation or nerve factor, and what's it like for you to be in contention for the championship on the last day?  
BERND WIESBERGER:   Well, I've not been in contention in a major championship, so I don't know how it's going to turn out.   I'm guessing Rory is going to make another birdie or so to get in the lead.   I'm just trying to enjoy as I did today.   I was in a great situation going into the round this afternoon and I felt quite calm.   I'm friends with Rory and I'm sure it's going to be a nice situation out there tomorrow again.   Hopefully do the things well that I did today.   Yeah, just enjoy myself.   From now on, it's just a bonus, really.   
   
 Q.   Your bio says you had a skiing accident in 2003. Do you still ski and how serious was that?  
BERND WIESBERGER:   Well, I broke my collarbone back then, you know, just goofing around and not being too cautious about what we were doing.   That kind of mademe slow down‑‑ I'm still skiing.   I like to ski.   I don't have much time because we have quite a tight schedule but it made me a bit more aware that I have to look around to not hurt myself because skiing is vacation or fun, but my body needs to be fit for the golf.   
   
 Q.   And what are some of the best variations you've heard of your name, maybe on first tee announcements?  
BERND WIESBERGER:   I'm not going to say those because then I'll have them all the time tomorrow.   Let's be creative, I don't know.   (Laughing).   I'm sure there will be creative guys out there tomorrow.   
KELLY ELBIN:   Thank you.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT