JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 23, 2013
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   66 today out there on that golf course, no wind, how does that sound?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Yeah, it sounds good.   You know, it's always tough bringing a good round after a strong first round.   I had to push myself a lot on the back nine after struggling a little bit on 7 and 8, but very happy with the way I played down the stretch there.  
   
 Q.   You're still a young man with big credentials; you've won out here.   Where can you go in the game, because to me, as an observer, you look as though you've got the goods to go all the way, big guy.   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Well, thank you, I appreciate that.   I'm trying my best to do that.   It gets better with every step of the way.   I had to learn the tough side, as well.   You know, leaving here in a playoff a couple years ago, just tried to feed off that, and the last couple years, working on my game, as well. I think I can still climb up from where I am right now.  
   
 Q.   We had Ryder Cup Captain, Paul McGinley, in with us at SKY Sports doing some commentary, and he's very impressed with your game.   How important is it for you to show him how good you are and to make that team?  
BERND WIESBERGER:   You know, I've played with Mr.McGinley the last round at The Scottish Open, and obviously tried to perform well there, as well.   It was a tough day but we had a good round in there.   
Coming here and feeding off good memories where I played well and a course that I like, and obviously being the venue for The Ryder Cup, that inspires me to play well.   I think it's important to play well on the venue of the course of The Ryder Cup and make a statement, but still, speaking about The Ryder Cup, it's still a couple of months away and I need to play well in those months, as well.   Yeah, it's not bad to play well here.   
   
 Q.   Gonzalo is 14‑under, you're 13‑under and you're both showing a nice set of heels to the rest of the players; if I give you 22 now, will you take it?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   No, I can go lower than that.   
   
 Q.   What were your thoughts first thing this morning when you saw Gonzalo with back‑to‑back 65s and you had some catching up to do.   
BERND WIESBERGER:   I watched a little on TV in the morning in the locker room and saw the guys were doing well, but they didn't realize it was down to 14‑under until I was on the second green, so I didn't pay too much attention really.  
He set a mark, and tried to feed off that, and I could take three birdies on 2, 3 and 5, which was good.   Yeah, strong finish on the back nine got me right in there.  
   
 Q.   Did you like that, having a target to chase?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Yeah, I don't really mind.   At the end of the day, I just have to play my own game and make sure I make the fewest shots as possible.   If somebody is running away, you can't push the brakes.   You have to try to make birdies, and fortunately it's what I did on the back nine, yeah, especially with the good finish on 17 and 18.   Yeah, I'm very pleased.   
   
 Q.   We hate using the word easy, but is it pretty easy out there?   There's chance after chance after chance.   
BERND WIESBERGER:   I guess it's always how you feel, how well you hit the ball, how confident you are, and coming off a couple of‑‑ as I said yesterday, tougher events which made scoring tougher, I enjoy coming to a golf course that presents more opportunities and where I can actually feed off my good ball‑striking.   I think that's what I'm doing so far this week and I hope I can continue these next two days.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel that just about every element of the game is in place?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   I feel like I have those weeks where I really, as I said, coming up the last, to my caddie, I know where my ball is starting with my irons, and I can create a lot of chances.   Obviously try to bring it into the weekend, as well.   
   
 Q.   It's only halfway, but what is the winning score?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Radar just said if I took 22, but you never know.   I think I'm playing well enough, and if I can get maybe another two 66s in, it should be good enough.   But you never know what the weather does.   It can turn so quickly, and I'd say you have to go lower than 20 on the weekend.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned playing obviously with Mr.McGinley in Scotland; did the Ryder Cup crop up in conversation?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Yeah, after the round, he had a talk to me and said he was, you know, very happy with where my game is and he thinks that I can push myself on to the team.   That's obviously something that I really enjoyed hearing from the captain, and yeah, coming here to Gleneagles, knowing I can play well on this golf course, but obviously as I said, making a statement for myself, as well, on the course is important, and I hope I can also perform under the pressure over the weekend.   
   
 Q.   Good to know that he's already thinking of you, and still a year to go?  
BERND WIESBERGER:   It's good that I have my name up there, but as I said, it's a couple of months still out, and obviously the qualification hasn't even started yet.   
Yeah, I mean, playing well on The Ryder Cup venue course, I guess is never a bad sign.   
   
 Q.   Are you playing next week?  
BERND WIESBERGER:   I will go to Wales.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT