JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 22, 2013
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Seemed a fairly easy round for you to pick up the birdies with a lovely finish?  
BERND WIESBERGER:   Yeah, was very relaxed, great group with Stephen and Rafa, get along really well and a nice atmosphere there and I could feed off that.   
Yeah, I didn't make a lot of mistakes.   I had troubles the last couple weeks driving the ball, and you know, coming off major championships where you have to be very precise off the tee, I kind of felt I had a bit more margin of error off the tee here.   
But my driving is better the last couple of days, which helped a lot, and I've got shorter clubs into the greens, and I could take advantage of those.   You know, unfortunately, to take‑‑ not to take more birdies on the par 5s, but I have to be satisfied with that start to the tournament.  
   
 Q.   You walked off 18 without a birdie and you seemed that was a chance that went, but presumably just regroup and get going again?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Yeah, I had a great drive down 16, 3‑putted for par.   Hit 5‑iron into 18.   I didn't hit the green.   Take a short iron out of the rough‑‑ I feel like I left a shot there.   
But at least I had a really good finish, as I said to my caddie, we can still have a good finish, a couple good chances if we drive the ball, and that's what I did.   Bonus to hole the one on 9, or on 10, but all in all quite a good start.  
   
 Q.   We use the word 'affinity' with courses, and this is one you seem to do well at with the playoff a couple of seasons ago.   
BERND WIESBERGER:   I came here with the feeling that I like the golf course, I like the weather, playing in these colder conditions, I think it suits me, as well.   Very relaxed.   Had a last week off, so quite fresh into this tournament and that helped me, as well.   
Put some new irons in this week which performed well, some new Titleist.   So I like those and I'm happy I got off to a good start with them, as well.   Yeah, overall, very pleased.   
   
 Q.   Obviously you've got a bit of history on this course; does it suit your eye, this course?  
BERND WIESBERGER:   It does.   I enjoy the course.   Feels a little bit like home where you have these silly slopes, sidehill lies, feels a little bit like home, very fair.   As you say, suits my eye.   Feels, not easy, but a good chance for me to score well and do well.  
   
 Q.   How did you go away from here two years ago, were you disappointed or did you feel that was the best and you put yourself in position?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Two years ago, I was not safe with my card on Tour and still needed to get that feeling how it is to play for the win, and so that I think for me was part of my progress as a player and definitely helped me.   If you're in a playoff and you have to settle for second, obviously you're disappointed but looking back, it was progress for me.   
Yeah, just coming back and feed off those good memories.   
   
 Q.   The progress you made, you can potentially be one of the contenders to be back here in a year's time.   
BERND WIESBERGER:   You know, I don't want to put that too much into my mind‑set.   But if I keep playing like I did today on this course, and for the rest of the next 12, 14 months, I don't see why I can't be here and playing actually well on The Ryder Cup course is not too bad, either, for putting your name up there.   
   
 Q.   Is that in your mind, that you wanted to be here this week, is that one of those reasons?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Yeah, it was always going to be part of my schedule this year, apart from obviously enjoying Gleneagles the golf course and I like playing in Scotland up here.   
Yeah, great hotel, great facilities, great for practise, and yeah, it all adds up, and I feel quite comfortable here and feel that I can perform well.   
   
 Q.   Did you ever play over here during your younger years?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Not really.   Not that I can think of.   I've never played in Scotland, actually, until I've turned professional.   I've played a couple of events in Ireland, Irish Amateur, Irish Youth, British Am, but never made it up to Scotland until I turned pro.   
   
 Q.   You missed the cut obviously at the PGA, but that was your only missed the cut of the season so far, isn't it.   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Yeah, only missed the cut since the Dunhill last year, so my game is quite on a good level, and yeah, just trying to start a new run.   
   
 Q.   Some players would give their right eye for that.   
BERND WIESBERGER:   There's been a couple tournaments with no‑cut events like Dubai and WGCs, but only like three or four events, but still, I'm very proud of that streak.   I played really well at the PGA, as well.   I've been up there and I've been under par for most of the tournament, and just such a small margin of error in these events, and that's something that I think you have to learn, as well.   
I took two decisions which backfired on me, and I had to take a double and a triple in the second round.   I wasn't far off.   So I still could take some positive out of it.   
   
 Q.   Today, the key to your round, was it good putting?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   I think I've actually left a couple of chances still out there.   I've not taken advantage of the par 5s, the first three, where I had short clubs in as my second, which some shots, you actually kind of expect sitting on the fairway to take a birdie there.   And I've hit good shots, also, into holes like 12, like the first, yeah, couldn't make those.   And with the last few birdies, a bit of balancing out again.  
I'm seeing the course well, hitting the shots well, and that creates a lot of opportunities for me on this course.   That's what I like.   
   
 Q.   Last three birdies, what length of putt did you hole?  
BERND WIESBERGER:   I hit a wedge on No. 8 and it was about three metres.   
Hit it to 1 1/2 metres on No.9.   
On the last, I holed maybe a five‑metre putt.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT