PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 13, 2012
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Similar start to Korea ‑‑  
BERND WIESBERGER:   Very good, I was just thinking about it, I started Korea with 71‑65‑65; this time, 70‑65‑65.   Very happy with the way I played today, very happy with the way I handled myself, especially the first couple of holes.   At first it was good grinding and then it was good to make birdies where I was able to.  
   
 Q.   And you do hold a one‑stroke advantage after what happened at the last, which I fancy is going to be a fairly slender lead because there's a nice duel between the two of you.   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Yeah, it was very good.   It was very relaxing.   Ross is a top guy and very nice to play with, and going around the turn to the back nine, made a lot of birdies, must have been pretty fun to watch as well.   I hope to get into that kind of rhythm again tomorrow and make loads of birdies rather than holing for pars.   Looking forward to a nice round tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   It's not match play but do you feed off that kind of environment when the two of you are head‑to‑head like that?  
BERND WIESBERGER:   It's nice if your opponent also plays well, it pushes yourself even more.   I need to go forward as well, and that's what Ross is going to do.   
   
 Q.   He made the point that he's surprised that nobody else has really challenged, and we know that there are low scores out there, somebody could challenge, but at the moment, does seem like a nice little battle with the two of you, doesn't it.   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Yeah, you make a little off‑center hit, a little odd mistake, you get some bogeys on the card, and we've seen a couple of guys making bogeys on the last; Michael Campbell and Shane Lowry went to 10‑under after bogeying the last.   
There's bogeys out there, as well, especially in windy conditions.   Yeah, you've got to think your way around the course.  
   
 Q.   We touched on this yesterday about your maturity as a player and how you've grown since the victories, but since you've always had that ability to remain calm when the pressure is ongoing into the competitive environment‑‑  
BERND WIESBERGER:   Yeah, I feel good in that situation.   Has not always been like this, but in the bad weeks, still very hard on myself as well.   
But if I do well, I'm getting better at pushing myself forward even more and that's something you learn by winning tournaments when you need to shoot a low score, and I've done that this year.   So it develops you as a player, and, yeah, you feed off that in rounds like this.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT