PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 12, 2012
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  BERND WIESBERGER:   Today I did well with my round to score under par.   Yesterday was a bit tougher, so I did hang on well with my round to score under par.   Today was a bit easier, a different wind direction, as well and made the course more playable and scorable.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel with your game in general?  
BERND WIESBERGER:   I'm feeling good.   I didn't hit as many fairways as I would have liked to, but the rough is not up much, so the closer you get to the green, the more shorter clubs you can hit.   It's not playing particularly long today.   So a lot of wedges in and more chances to make more birdies.  
   
 Q.   How much does the course suit your game?  
BERND WIESBERGER:   Yeah, it helps, the rough is not too severe.   Some spots are a bit tricky with the bermuda that they just seeded in there, but generally it's a quite open course.   You still have to hit it somewhat straight, but if you can get down a bit further, you get short irons in and give yourself more chances.   
   
 Q.   Five shots better than yesterday; how much better did you play, or was it conditions?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Well, it was really tough out there yesterday.   It was very easy to get a high number in there.   And I was pleased the way I played yesterday.   Kind of steady golf but that was the plan.   I would have taken a par on the driving range warming up right away, so I was happy there.  
But today was a bit easier obviously with the conditions, wind in a slightly different direction made it a fraction easier but I played well, got a couple of good breaks now and then, holed some putts.   It was a good round.  
   
 Q.   How different is your mind‑set now going into a weekend in that situation than it would have been, say, earlier in the year before you won?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Oh, definitely different.   The whole feeling on the course is a bit more relaxed.   Of course you are up in the ranking and don't have to look at top 115 so much anymore, so relaxes a bit and it shows in the scores, as well, and hopefully come this weekend.  
   
 Q.   You're 25th currently in The Race to Dubai and that already gets you in   The Open Championship if you can maintain it, but you can get in the Top 15, more majors, is that the goal now?  
BERND WIESBERGER:   Yeah, to push myself as far up as I can.   Race to Dubai, I have big weeks coming up in Asia and I have a good chance to get myself up there.   Game is in good condition.   I worked well with my coach last week and going to see him in three of the remaining four events, as well.   
So I'm looking forward to that and hopefully give myself a chance to play hopefully all the majors next year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT