BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 27, 2012
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Today 7‑under par with no bogeys, tell us about it.   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Yesterday was a grinding day for everybody.   It was windy, windy day.   Especially you couldn't really know where the wind was coming from.   It was gusty and a tough day.   I grinded it out well and only had one double‑bogey on the card, which I managed to eliminate a couple of birdies at the end.   
So I was happy with my round yesterday, and today I really got to the stage where it kind of worked.   A couple of long putts dropped, and the chip‑in on the last was nice, as well, to finish the round off.   Today couldn't really do anything wrong really.   Felt like everything was going in the right direction.   
   
 Q.   The season is still young actually.   How do you feel in general with your game?  
BERND WIESBERGER:   It's better.   I worked with my coach last week in the Indonesian Masters last week.   I played the Asian Tour to see him and have a week of good practise and skipped China.   I think that was important for me.   I was seventh last week, which kind of hopefully‑‑ started the season, so far, it's so‑so.   I had one Top‑10 in Joburg, and after that it was shaky.   I feel like my game is good enough.   Just the odd putt didn't drop and the odd mistake.   But I feel like my game is getting better, and I hope I can build on that.   
   
 Q.   You'll be going out late tomorrow.   What is the plan for this afternoon?  
BERND WIESBERGER:   Lunch now, and practise a little bit on the range.   My game is pretty good, so not too much to work on.   Putting and short game, and see how the guys are doing in the afternoon, similar conditions tomorrow afternoon, it should be a nice day again and just take it easy and get prepared for tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Fantastic 65 today.   What was better, the 65 today or the 72 in yesterday's tough conditions?  
BERND WIESBERGER:   Well, it's tough to say.   Yesterday was really a tough, grinding day, so you had to be patient and take it easy and take the chances when you get them.   So it was a totally different golf course I thought.   
Today, at least the first 11, 12 holes played very calm in perfect conditions, but got a bit more breeze, could hole a couple of putts.   Got unlucky on 8 where I hit the pin.   But played great today and everything worked for me.   
I think both rounds were kind of similar quality‑wise.   
   
 Q.   Last week you played in Indonesia totally different conditions as far as weather and golf course and that; do you feel like coming here was an easy change?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   I said to my caddie, the only thing I'm looking forward is putting the jumper on again because we were sweating two weeks in a row.   So I was looking forward to coming to Korea.   I always enjoy coming to countries that I have not visited yet, and this is one of them.   It's a nice golf course here and just enjoy it.   
I was looking forward to coming here, and especially last week when I had my coach with me, for one week, it was good practise, and I think that paid off.   
   
 Q.   Obviously paid off, playing great this week.   You've had a couple of close calls as far as winning goes, but what are you going to look towards to try to notch up your first win?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Well, just try to do the things I did the first two days.   Just try and hit a lot of greens and try and hit on the right spots, which is important here.   You know, get the putter going and just take it easy.   It's a tricky golf course when you hit into the wrong places, so I want to right that, and the driver is working well.   Just do the same things as today and I'll be fine.   
   
 Q.   How do you reflect on the round?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   It was nice today.   Conditions were pretty easy than yesterday and could take advantage of them.   You know, I got the odd break on the back nine where I holed a long putt on 5, a chip‑in on the last, which, you know, is a bonus.   But some of these days, it all comes together, and it was one of them today.   I'll take it.   
   
 Q.   And you've been playing in the wind on the opening day.   Did you fancy there was a score like this possible around here?   
BERND WIESBERGER:   Well, you know, the thing is, if you hit the right spots on the greens, the right plateaus, you get fairly easy putts.   The problem is to hit those spots, and today I did it quite well.   The conditions were there for the taking, especially the morning, and rolled a few nice putts in.   It's out there.   
   
 Q.   And you've felt this round was coming?  
BERND WIESBERGER:   Yeah, I said to my caddie last week, I think we've got a low one coming up.   I hope we can get some more in this week, this weekend.   
But I felt very good about my game.   I had great practise with my coach last week who is an instructor now in Jakarta, and I think that always helps me to get my game going.   It was important for me that I was there and it paid off straightaway.   
   
 Q.   Was there something you were doing wrong and he's just put you in the right direction again?  
BERND WIESBERGER:   You know, it's tough when I'm living in Europe and he just moved to Jakarta.   It's tough to get proper practise in.   So that was also one reason why I decided to play in Indonesia last week.   I think it was a good decision for me.  
Last year when he was at a couple of tournaments last year, the following week it worked out well for me.   Yeah, it was important for me to have him around last week.  
   
 Q.   Sounds like he's a reassuring presence and just comments that he might make just nudge you in the right direction.   
BERND WIESBERGER:   It's little things that maybe turn you in the right direction.   I think he's very good with that, and knows the way I play golf and I see the golf shots.   I would like to play, and it's a really good working basis for me.   I can benefit from it a lot.  
   
 Q.   Am I right to assume that you're more and more accustomed to being in this kind of position?  
BERND WIESBERGER:   Well, last year I've always kind of hung in there‑‑ last half of the year.   So I feel comfortable up there.   It's different for you if you go in maybe the last day as the leader.   But you know, we'll see how it goes.   We'll see how tomorrow goes, and I'll just take it easy and hope that I have a nice day tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT