PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 13, 2011
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. A very successful day, isn't it?  
 BERND WIESBERGER: He yeah, it was very nice to play with lovely conditions in the morning. Got a bit breezy the last couple of holes but hit 18 greens today and plenty of birdie chances and managed to do 7, could have been more, but, yeah, it's a good start to the tournament.  
  
  Q. Sounded like everything worked but was there a particular highlight?  
 BERND WIESBERGER: I had birdies all the way around the round. The last four holes I hit really good putts that didn't drop which made the round stay at 7-under. But overall it was pretty solid day.   
  
  Q. Is the course there for the taking?  
 BERND WIESBERGER: Today in the morning it was fairly easy, no wind and great greens and it's not playing too long. So scoring is low and you need to make birdies, go for the flags and yeah, today you had to go low.   
  
  Q. Do you enjoy this kind of style of golf?  
 BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, it kind of fits my game. I was driving the ball well today. I only had one or two hiccups off the tee, but I managed to hit all of the greens as I said. And yeah, it's a course that favours my game. And if I keep driving the ball well I have a lot of birdie chances around here.  
  
  Q. What do you consider your aims now, chasing Race to Dubai and a place in the Dubai World Championship?  
 BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, after Austria, definitely it's a big. Goal and unfortunately I couldn't perform well enough in Scotland, especially Carnoustie. But the last round in Kingsbarns, a good sign, 5- or 6-under there, going to the right direction. Had a nice week off last week, celebrated my birthday. Had fun with my friends and looking forward to the end of the season and try to push to the Top 60.  
  
  Q. How did you celebrate?  
 BERND WIESBERGER: I'd rather not tell. No, it was fun, a couple of friends and my family it was a great weekend.  
  
  Q. I guess you can celebrate a whole year really, because it's been a terrific season.   
 BERND WIESBERGER: Well, it started out a bit slow and made lots of cuts but now -- the last couple of months have been a lot of top results and a lot of missed cuts and consistency has gone. But I hope to find a lot of greens this week and for the rest of the season and hole a couple of putts and give myself a chance to get into Dubai.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT