IRISH OPEN PRESENTED BY DISCOVER IRELAND
July 28, 2011
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tell us how good that round was today?
 BERND WIESBERGER : Yeah, it was a solid round. I had only just one kind of hiccup, which was 6, I had to hole a long putt for par. But apart from that I played good. The last couple of holes I played shaky but I made solid pars all the way through, no bogeys today, and very happy to score in the 60s once again.

 Q. What was the highlight, if you're sitting back tonight and telling friends, oh, you should have seen this shot that I played?
 BERND WIESBERGER : Not too many highlights. It was pretty steady all the way through but probably that long putt I had on 6 was kind of the putt that kept the momentum going. I started very well today with two birdies and 6th hole kept it going, and had a solid back nine, 2-under as well, and yeah, it was a good day.

 Q. Has this been coming? 
 BERND WIESBERGER : Yeah, I struggled a bit lately but made a couple of changes and also my mind-set I had to change a little bit and was very relaxed out there today and enjoyed it. I knew it was going to turn at one point. I was playing all right, never got the score in today. Hopefully turn for the rest of the season.

 Q. Without baffling us, what did you have to change?
 BERND WIESBERGER : I was working on a couple of things on the swing, and it didn't work, and got a bit frustrated and yeah, that kept on going for the last couple of weeks. 
 But at one point it was going to turn, and the last two weeks, just tried to be a bit more calm on the course and more relaxed and take things as they come. So today worked out good.

 Q. Letting those frustrations get to you on the course? 
 BERND WIESBERGER : Yeah, the last couple of weeks were tough on me and I decided to change that radically. This week, I feel very comfortable coming in and I really enjoy the course. It's a great venue, and, yeah, just enjoy my time right now.

 Q. You had to battle with winds in Sweden but here somewhat more placid. 
 BERND WIESBERGER : It was quite cool in the morning when we teed off, but I managed to have a good start and that kind of started the round. Yeah, it was good. 

 Q. So you like it here?
 BERND WIESBERGER : I enjoy it, yeah. Yesterday I went fishing on one of the rivers. It's great fun, yeah.

 Q. The fishing is meant to be particularly good on the rivers here, isn't it. 
 BERND WIESBERGER : Yeah, me and Marcel Siem, we rented a boat for the afternoon to go on the lake, and might join for that. Yesterday I got one and he couldn't get one, so we've got to keep that momentum going, as well. 

 Q. You only got one?
 BERND WIESBERGER : Yeah, but he said he had really bad rods. I don't know, I'm not a big fisherman, but I got one, maybe it was just luck. But it was fun, definitely, and we will go out today again. 

 Q. I take it that's a good way to wind down anyway. 
 BERND WIESBERGER : Exactly, fishing, you're in a different world. It was fun out there yesterday in the afternoon on the river. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT