CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: FLORIDA STATE VS MICHIGAN
December 27, 2016
Derrick Nnadi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DERRICK NNADI: First impression, they're a really good team.  They're coached well.  After watching film, like I said, they're really coached well.  They get the job done a lot of times, and they're an impressive football team.
Q. Their head coach has a very big personality.  What's the first thing you think you when you hear the name Jim Harbaugh?
DERRICK NNADI: Honestly, I think he's a good coach.  He does what he has to do to help his team get motivated to want to win.  That's maybe a little bit different about how our coach runs things, but through his way, he gets things done.
Q. I've watched your TV show; what was it like just to have cameras there all the time and then watching it for you guys?
DERRICK NNADI: Honestly, at first, I was a little uncomfortable because it was kind of like -- it made me uncomfortable for a time, but after a while you get used to it.
Q. What's it like watching the -- I assume you guys watch it.
DERRICK NNADI: Uh-huh.
Q. What's it like watching it later and then all of a sudden you see your coach behind the scenes and you see what they're talking about?  It must be insightful.
DERRICK NNADI: It is.  With some coaches you would expect to say some things, it just be like, whoa.  In the episode when it was about the D tackles, I'm just (inaudible).
Q. How do you watch them?  Do you get together?
DERRICK NNADI: No, with me and my roommate, we just started out watching them.
Q. It must be freaky.
DERRICK NNADI: It is a little bit.
Q. Is it going to be weird when they're not around next year?
DERRICK NNADI: I mean, I'm used to them being around and I'm used to them not being around.  I don't see them that much during the week.  It's more like we see them on the practice field, around campus.
Q. After that loss to UNC you're sitting there 3-2 on the year.  What's your mindset after the team's mindset after that?
DERRICK NNADI: Honestly it was a wake-up call, honestly, because it really showed how much we needed to work on, especially understanding, oh, this play where so and so could have made this play, but -- Coach was like -- we needed to realize who we were so we needed to step it up pretty much.
Q. Did you ever imagine at that point that you'd make it back here and be in the Orange Bowl?
DERRICK NNADI: I was hoping.  I was really focusing on things we needed to work on and focusing on the next team.
Q. What's been the biggest improvement down the stretch that allowed you to finish the way you did?
DERRICK NNADI: The biggest improvement?  I felt we really just united together.  I feel like at the beginning of the year we were kind of -- we didn't really know what we could do.  We finally got together and started playing like we know how to play, like playing Florida State football.
Q. Y'all lead the nation in sacks.  Is that something you pride yourself on as a unit?
DERRICK NNADI: Yeah, it really helps a lot because we've been working on that a lot.  Me personally, I've been working on my pass rush the whole summer and spring, and I feel like it really showed.
Q. How much free time have you guys had during the first 24, 36 hours you've been here?
DERRICK NNADI: Free time?  We're talking about free time?
Q. Is your day set up so it's very scheduled?
DERRICK NNADI: Yeah, but at the end of the day, when we're done with practice and like Orange Bowl activities, we do have some free time with ourselves just to kick back and relax.
Q. Is that a good thing, to have that kind of schedule during the course of the week or during the course of a day?
DERRICK NNADI: Yeah, you can get all the things you need to work on, that you have to get done before you can just relax and have fun.
Q. It's like a job pretty much?
DERRICK NNADI: Yeah.
Q. What was yesterday like for your team?
DERRICK NNADI: Wake up, have breakfast, and you go to meetings, have meetings, go to the practice field, practice, come home, get undressed, get something to eat, and then that's that.  It was really just Orange Bowl activities, and after that we're done.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT