BMO FINANCIAL GROUP CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN
July 8, 2004
Johanna Head
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thanks for joining us.  Five under, you're tied for the lead and you started off with a bogey and you played great golf.  Give us your impression of the day before we take questions.
JOHANNA HEAD:  It was a bit tough because I started with a bogey on the first.  I just kept going.  I knew that the greens    the greens are tough out there and you have to hit it in the right place.  I just kept being patient.  I made a couple of birdies again on the front nine.

Literally, I was just thinking it was nice too finish 1 under after nine.  On the back nine, I just wanted to play, just hit the greens and then if I made the birdie, I made the birdie.  It was just important to hit the greens on the back nine.  I just made a few long putts.
Q.  Johanna, at what point did you realize you were on top of the leaderboard?
JOHANNA HEAD:  When I holed the putt on 18, because I saw that I think Jennifer Rosales bogeyed the hole and she went 4 under.  I've been just    I was at 5 under and leading the tournament.
Q.  Have you led a tournament after one round yet in your career here on the LPGA Tour?
JOHANNA HEAD:  Yes, I have.
Q.  So having done that, how do you take this?  You're the leader right now, it's nice, but you still have to focus on tomorrow.
JOHANNA HEAD:  It's nice, but you don't win a tournament on the first day.  You've got to go out tomorrow and play another day and Saturday and Sunday.  It's only on Sunday on the 18th green that you can start thinking about what you've done and if you've managed to win the tournament.
Q.  You can hear that the weather is changing out there.  How much do you think that's going to affect the afternoon scores?  Do you think that might help your chances?
JOHANNA HEAD:  I think the rain might make it a tiny bit longer, although the wind might die down, as well.  It was quite windy this morning, which affected us on the front nine, but I think it just depends on whether the wind drops.  I'm sure it's going to be quite a bit longer.
Q.  Did you play a practice round here?
JOHANNA HEAD:  I played a practice round on Tuesday and it wasn't windy at all.  It was playing quite long this morning.
Q.  If you could repeat for us how you feel about your round today and how your game sets up as far as the course?
JOHANNA HEAD:  The course is a ball striker's course.  If you're striking the ball well you can hit it close.  But then again, it sort of gets down to putting, as well.  With my game, I'm driving it quite well.  I'm hitting my irons quite well, I'm putting okay.  I just have to go out there for the next three days and do the same thing.
Q.  What was your key today to put you on top of the leaderboard?
JOHANNA HEAD:  Putting.  I got the lines of the putts right, I got the pace right, and when you get those two together, they'll go in.
Q.  Did you have a local caddie helping you today who knows the course?
JOHANNA HEAD:  My caddie helped me on a few lines with the putts and told me if it was downhill, because the downhill putts are pretty fast.  He was a great help to me.  I was reading most of the putts myself.
Q.  Have you been up to Canada before?
JOHANNA HEAD:  Yes.  I was in the Vancouver last year.
Q.  What do you think about the area around here, and did you get a chance to do any sightseeing?
JOHANNA HEAD:  It's really great.  I've seen the falls, but I haven't actually been down there to walk around.  I'll do that this afternoon.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Take us over your score card.  Go over the bogeys and all the birdies.  Just tell us what you hit in and how far the putt was.
JOHANNA HEAD:  The first, I hit it in the bunker off the tee, so I laid up and then I hit a wedge in from 100 yards and had about a 20 footer for par, which I missed.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Birdie on 4.
JOHANNA HEAD:  I hit 6 iron in and I had a 25 footer for birdie, which I made.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Bogey on 5.
JOHANNA HEAD:  I didn't hit a very good drive.  I hit it into the rough, couldn't get up, and I had about 86 to the flag.  Hit a 56 degree wedge and just missed the putt.
PAUL ROVNAK:  How far was that 56 degree wedge?
JOHANNA HEAD:  10 feet
PAUL ROVNAK:  Birdie on 6.
JOHANNA HEAD:  I hit the green in two with a 7 wood and I had a 45 foot putt and putted to three feet and holed the three footer for birdie.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Birdie on 9.
JOHANNA HEAD:  I hit a 6 iron in to 15 feet and holed it.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Birdie on 12.
JOHANNA HEAD:  I hit 7 iron to 25 feet and holed it.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Birdie on 14, the par 3.
JOHANNA HEAD:  I hit 6 iron to 15 feet.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Birdie on 15.
JOHANNA HEAD:  I hit 5 iron to 35 feet.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Then the birdie on 18.
JOHANNA HEAD:  I hit a wedge to three feet.
Q.  Sounds like a very good putting day.
JOHANNA HEAD:  Yes.
Q.  Did you know it was going to be that way coming in?
JOHANNA HEAD:  No, I just kept doing the same thing, I was just trusting my line and my pace.  I didn't even think    to be honest, I didn't even think of holing putts, I was trying to get the right line and the pace, because these greens are tough to get the pace right anyway.
Q.  Do you think that's the way anyone is going to have to shoot a good number, is to be able to make 15 foot putts?
JOHANNA HEAD:  It's hard to hit it close, because of all the barrows and mounds on the greens.  If you do hit it close, then you sort of need to hole those putts.  But you are going to be left with some longer putts, as well.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT