LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 24, 2001
Johanna Head
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOHANNA HEAD:  I hit 7-iron in there, 7-wood off the tee; then 7-iron in to about four feet.  I had a snakey putt left-to-right; managed to hole it.  Next birdie was on 9, I hit 7-iron in there as well to twelve feet and holed the putt.  Next hole is 12, that was a par 5.  I just -- I tried to go for the green in two but came up about 15 yards short and chipped up, holed the putt.  

JOHANNA HEAD:  The putt was four feet.   13, well, hit a great drive down 13 and we had 170 to the flag and because it was uphill and slightly into wind, I thought I'd hit 7-wood, but I actually hit the wrong club.  I hit it 20 yards over the pin and had the worst possible putt back, but I actually holed it   - (laughs) -  don't know how.  It actually lipped out and then hung on the hole for about 1 second then just dropped in.  Quite pleased.

JOHANNA HEAD:  It was about 35 feet past the pin.  Then 14 hit a wedge in, came up a bit short, but had about a 25-footer and holed that.  16, hit I was actually in a divot for my second shot and I just punched in a 51 degree wedge and I hit that to five feet and holed it.  17, I hit a 51 again and hit it to a foot and then that was it.  That was all my birdies. 


Q.  (Inaudible)

JOHANNA HEAD:  I shot 65 in the French Open two years ago, this is the lowest in the LPGA.

Q.  Did you play here last year?

JOHANNA HEAD:  No, I didn't first year.

Q.  What is it about the course?

JOHANNA HEAD:  It is lovely.  Great course. 

Q.  How is it playing with a player who won it in the past (inaudible) --

JOHANNA HEAD:  It was really nice to play with her and Marie and it wasn't until I actually teed off with them that I realized that Ann Marie won a few events and Cindy has won a few events so it was nice to play with them. 

Q.  Impact your game at all?

JOHANNA HEAD:  No, it actually gave me another ten minutes to practice my putting and also to stretch a bit because I was a bit stiff this morning after going to the gym yesterday.  It was fine.  It wasn't a problem.

Q.  How has it been adjusting to the weather, started out rainy, there was worries that it could be kind of a wet start to the round.  Today with the fog burning off, how did that affect you?

JOHANNA HEAD:  As you can see, I have got my shorts on so I was actually expecting it to be nice today.  But apparently  -- well at the beginning of the week I heard it was going to rain all week so I was expecting a week like it was last week but it is great that the sun has come out.

Q.  Talk about your season so far, anything in your game improving to this point?

JOHANNA HEAD:  Well, for the last  -- this is actually my only fourth tournament on the LPGA and I have struggled over the last four weeks and not really with my game, but it is just my head and just because I am here and I am playing with the top players in the world.  I am actually starting to play well now.  I am striking the ball better and putting is starting to get better as well because I haven't holed a putt for the last four weeks.

Q.   (Inaudible)

JOHANNA HEAD:  I think the thing I find most hard is that you cannot drop one shot out here because one shot means either you make the cut or you miss the cut.  Hopefully in a couple of years time I will be thinking one shot is to win or not to win.  But for the moment I am just thinking that way.

Q.  What does this do for your confidence?  It must be tremendous?

JOHANNA HEAD:  Yes, absolutely brilliant.  I haven't shot 65 for two years and I am really, really pleased.

Q.  So the intimidation factor may be gone?

JOHANNA HEAD:  It is gone now.  (Laughs).

Q.  How has it been adjusting to your second year on the Tour?  Has it been an adjustment from where you played previously?

JOHANNA HEAD:  Well, although this is my second year, I didn't play last year.  So this is only my fourth event in the last four weeks.  I found that -- I found it good actually.  It is so nice to be able to play every single week because at home I am playing   -- we have a tournament   -- we had one in May.  We have got one in a couple of weeks time and it is just difficult to keep playing well.  And if you have got like two weeks off and then you have got a week off and then you have got three weeks off, so and it is good to be able to play all the time everyday, yeah, it is good.

Q.  You said you have been playing last year --

JOHANNA HEAD:  I didn't play over here last year.  Last year I had a card which would have got me into about 5 tournaments but I decided that I wouldn't play over here because I didn't want to come out and have to hope that I'd get into a tournament.

Q.  This is your fourth stop?

JOHANNA HEAD:  Yes, this is my fourth one.

Q.  (Inaudible)

JOHANNA HEAD:  No, because I am teeing off at 1:50 tomorrow.  So it will be nice if everyone went off on time.

Q.  You think 7 could hold up for the day?

JOHANNA HEAD:  Well, I don't know.  I think someone will probably come in 8-under maybe, I think so, yes because I saw a Crafter out there go  to 6-under when I was on 17 and luckily I just hit it (inaudible) I thought I am not having her tying with me.

Q.  Did that affect you at all when you were looking at the board?

JOHANNA HEAD:  Well, funny enough, it would normally, but this time it didn't.  It made me actually want to get another birdie and I even tried to get one on 18, but didn't make it.  Just had a 2-putt.

Q.  Did you have a feeling early in the round that everything felt right and you just have the feeling that this is going to be a day where you are going to do well?

JOHANNA HEAD:  No, I didn't think that  --

Q.  (Inaudible)

JOHANNA HEAD:  I mean, I started off and I had a par putt on the first to make which was like a 5-footer.  And then after that I had hit a few stray drives and then I was just missing my putts and I was thinking:  Oh, God, one of these rounds again where the putts just miss and Terry, who caddies for me, said to me, I don't you should be about 4-under par after those five holes.  So I thought well, yes, and then I managed to get two birdies on the front 9.  Then I said, okay, now it's time.  Just keep getting some birdies but I wasn't expecting 65.

Q.  So you feel confident heading into tomorrow?

JOHANNA HEAD:  Yeah, I do. 

Q.  Did you ever envision that you would be in the lead?  Did you ever envision that you would be in the lead this early  --

JOHANNA HEAD:  I was only one off the lead in Texas after the first round and then finished quite badly after that.  But hopefully I have learned a lot from that and I can go into tomorrow feeling confident and I am playing well and I can hole some putts as well.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT