NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 23, 2001
Stephen Weiss
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  After the number three pick, did you have an idea that Florida would be taking you in four?
 
STEPHEN WEISS: I had a pretty good feeling.  I thought the meetings went real well with them and they were upbeat and I had a really good feeling in my stomach and I'm just real excited to be part of this organization and I can't wait for camp.  
 

Q.  Stephen, they said they view this as their first big pick overall.  You had every opportunity to make this team right after training camp.  Did they indicate that to you?  And if they did, are you prepared for that?
 
STEPHEN WEISS: I think they want me to step right into playing and it's up to me to prove I can do that.  I'm going to go back and train and try to put on some weight.  But I think I'm ready to step up.  If I put on some weight and I'm able to compete physically, hockey-wise, I'll be able to step it up for sure. 
 

Q.  Stephen, do you feel being a two-way type of player is your biggest strength?
 
STEPHEN WEISS: I think so.  I think my biggest strength is being able to play both ends of the rink and that's something my previous coach really stressed the last couple of years with me and something I've really paid attention to.  But I think with Florida I'm here to put up some points and that's my main goal.  But for sure I'll take care of the other end as well.  
 

Q.  Stephen, you've been prepared by your coach to Steve Yzerman.  Can you talk a little bit about that comparison?  It's obviously a great compliment, but beyond that, how do you see yourself comparing to him?
 
STEPHEN WEISS: It's an unbelievable compliment when you're compared to someone like that.  I guess we play similar styles, but I try and play my own game.  I don't pattern my game after his, but I do see some similarities and hopefully I can do half of what he's done in his career. 
 

Q.  You said last week that you actually had an opportunity to meet Steve Yzerman; can you talk about that?  And also did you idolize him?
 
STEPHEN WEISS: Yeah.  He was at one of our games in the Finals against Ottawa and I got to see him, so that was a big thrill for me and I always loved watching him play when I was younger and he was a great player.  And again, just a huge compliment being compared to someone like himself.  
 

Q.  Stephen, can you talk about the antiness of this day, waiting for the moment, your thoughts when you heard your name and kind of sum up your emotions for the day?
 
STEPHEN WEISS: When I heard my name, I think I just wanted to jump out of my seat as high as possible.  It's a very exciting time and the emotions, it's unbelievable.  I've waited for this day for a very long time and I'm just happy now I know where I'm going.  And I'm just going to concentrate on working hard in the summer and try to make the hockey club.   
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT