GREAT OCEAN ROAD OPEN
February 3, 2021
Jordan Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. THOMPSON/P. Herbert
6-4, 3-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. Jordan, three sets.  You love the dogfight, don't you.  He always provides a strong challenge.  Talk us through the match today.
JORDAN THOMPSON:   Yeah, I don't know if I love it but always seem to get myself into one.  Yeah, he's a tough player.  He's a world-class doubles player, world-class singles player.  He plays on the edge, takes a lot of risks, and even in that last game, he pushed me, and yeah, I had to serve it out pretty tough and save a break point.  But felt like he was red lining, going after everything.  I was just ready to move and just try to make as many balls as possible.
Q. How important are these matches?
JORDAN THOMPSON:   Yeah, very important.  Before a Grand Slam, no one has played -- well, most of the Aussies haven't played any tennis.  I haven't played anything since October, November.  Yeah, it's good to be playing matches.  Already played three in two days, got more to come.  So it's great prep.
Q. What will you take from today?  What did you do better than last round?
JORDAN THOMPSON:   I probably served a little bit better today, but warmer conditions, ball is a little bit livelier.  I was probably slightly more aggressive, got to the net more than yesterday.  Yeah, probably returned a fraction better, as well.
Q. Anything in particular that you'll be focusing on the next round?
JORDAN THOMPSON:   Just depends who I play.  Different game plan for different player.  We'll see who wins.
Q. So many Aussies are doing well this week.  Have you been following their progress and what does that mean to you to see everyone doing well?
JORDAN THOMPSON:   Yeah, there's so many Aussies playing.  I haven't kept an eye on everybody, but yeah, I always see someone is playing, and I feel like everything is so scattered with three events in the one place, I don't know what tournament everyone is playing in.  Sort of just trying to focus on myself.  But I've kept an eye on a few of the matches before I've been getting on the court.  We've had a few that have come through, and it's great to see.
Q. What's your favorite thing about Melbourne?
JORDAN THOMPSON:   My favorite thing about Melbourne?  That it's in Australia.  I'm not really sure.  Yeah, I think that's all I've got for you.  I think that it's in Australia, and that's my favorite country.
Q. Who would you most like to play mixed doubles with and why?
JORDAN THOMPSON:   I guess Ash Barty because she's got a lot of variety.  She's Aussie.  I would want to play with another Australian.  Yeah, I think she does great things for the sport, so it would be fun to play with her.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT