BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 8, 2017
Thanasi Kokkinakis
Jordan Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KOKKINAKIS-THOMPSON/Muller-Querrey
7-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. It's a good win.  Does it translate at all for both of you into singles?  Getting more matches helps as you head towards Sydney?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Yeah, definitely matches help, especially start of the year.  We played, I think, four doubles.  I played three singles.
I guess it's more important for Thanasi.  He hasn't played for a long time.  For him to get matches under his belt is huge.
Q. How nice is it just to cap your first tournament out?
THANASI KOKKINAKIS: Yeah, it's pretty crazy.  I haven't experienced that for a while.  To be honest, I haven't experienced a competitive match for a while.
To go on a run like that with a mate and to beat some really quality teams, and to do it in a place like Brisbane, such a good event, as an Australian, as well, the home crowd, yeah, it's pretty surreal.
Q. I read earlier in the week that you said something along the lines of I must be mad to be considering a Grand Slam singles tournament with no match play.  How do you feel now?
THANASI KOKKINAKIS: I still haven't played a singles, so I don't know.  But I definitely want to play doubles if my body is still not up to it.
I'm not sure.  I have got a couple little niggles which I'm trying to deal with at the moment, but I think that's just -- you can play as many practice sets and stuff like that as you want, but there's nothing, even in doubles, there is nothing that compares to a real live match with real live pressure, that little bit of tension in the body and stuff like that.
I still don't know.  I can't really answer that question.  It still feels stupid to me to try to play five sets with a real spotty preseason at best.
I'm just going to take it day by day and try and do all the right things off court, and hopefully the body feels all right.  I have missed too much time now to put too much emphasis on one tournament.  I need to do what's best for my body and see what happens even after the Aussie summer.
Q. Is there a little risk with the success here to get carried away?  Do you have to hold yourself back maybe?
THANASI KOKKINAKIS: It's definitely tempting, that's for sure.  To play in a crowd like that and feel that buzz again, it's been so long.  It's definitely tempting, and I want to get out there, but I have a good group around me.
I need to listen to my body first and foremost and then come up with a plan on what's going to be best for me long term, because I'm still young, I realize that.  Even though I feel like I have missed so much time, I have a long career ahead, I hope.  I just want to do what's best for that.
Q. Jordan, your ranking jumped a few spots.  Couple wins in Sydney maybe and moving on to Melbourne?
THANASI KOKKINAKIS: Well, thank you.  (Smiling.)
JORDAN THOMPSON: Yeah, my opponent is sitting right next to me.  (Laughter.)
THANASI KOKKINAKIS: Appreciate it.  (Smiling.)
JORDAN THOMPSON: I mean, I'm taking it one match at a time.  Yeah, if I happen to beat Thanasi, I'll go on and play another match.  I don't even know who it is.  But if he beats me, I will be off to Melbourne and practicing, getting ready to go at a Grand Slam.
Q. What have you learned about this week, yourself, and your game?
JORDAN THOMPSON: It's huge backing up matches.  Even doubles, as well.
After I played that second round on centre court, I came out and played the world No. 1 in doubles, and the first set was a little bit of a shock to us.  I was a little bit slow.
Yeah, I think backing up and getting your body right is the biggest thing.
Q. Are you playing doubles together in Sydney?
THANASI KOKKINAKIS: Not in Sydney.  I wasn't going to play.  I just thought maybe just one event at a time.
A lot of things entered my mind.  I was thinking maybe just to play doubles again, give my body a bit more time.  Ultimately I have decided for singles, so I think I will give that a crack.
It was pretty funny, because we were actually joking about it the other day.  I said no to doubles, and then we beat -- who did we beat?  Was it last match?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Made the final.
THANASI KOKKINAKIS: I think it was to make the final.  I'm like, Yeah, yeah, I'll play.
But right before I said that, he got a message saying we've got Roger-Tecau.  We looked at each and kind of laughed a little bit.
But that's all right.  I think we will play together in the near future, for sure.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT