BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 4, 2017
Jordan Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. THOMPSON/D. Ferrer
4-6, 7-5, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How do you feel physically after that?  A lot of long rallies, weren't there?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Yeah, especially the last one.  I was feeling pretty good until the last rally.
Yeah, I don't know how many balls the last rally was, but yeah, definitely felt it after that rally.
Q. You seemed to wear him down.  You knew what he's like.  He plays like that, but you seemed to play his game better?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Oh, I don't know about that.  I think it's impossible to wear down David Ferrer.
Yeah, I think I'm a bigger frame than he is.  I think I have a better serve.  So I think I tried to use that to my advantage.
Q. (Question about exhaustion.)
JORDAN THOMPSON: Yeah, I was pretty tight.  No, it was all good.  Yeah.  Nothing was wrong.  I was just pretty exhausted.
Q. Just glad you didn't have to back it up and...
JORDAN THOMPSON: Definitely.
Q. Your best win?  Specifically on your game, what's the best thing you did out there tonight?
JORDAN THOMPSON: When I lost the first set, I tried to hunt down a few more forehands, get around, use my feet a bit more, use my speed to my advantage.
Yeah, it paid off.  Hit a couple more winners off my forehand.  Yeah, I think my serve, serve got me a few free points, as well.
Q. When you said you wanted to test your game at this level, what sort of precluded you from doing that a bit earlier?  Why do you think this was your opportunity to really do that against a really high-level player?
JORDAN THOMPSON: I think it's a process thing.  Normal tennis players start out futures and they go to challengers and then they try to get to ATPs.  I think I have done it step by step.  I guess getting the ranking up is the most important thing.
I got a wildcard here, but I was one out of the draw.  So I'm glad to have that opportunity.
Q. How will you recover tonight?  Obviously an exhausting two-and-a-half hours you spent out there, or 2 hours, 40 minutes.  What will you do tonight?
JORDAN THOMPSON: I will just stretch in the gym for a while, do a little bit of biking, an ice bath, have a good dinner, and probably stretch again.
Q. Definitely playing doubles tomorrow?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Yep.
Q. (Indiscernible question.)
JORDAN THOMPSON: Yeah, playing a great competitor like him, never gonna give you anything cheap.  When I served for the match, he played a pretty good game.  He kept his depth, and he played some pretty good points.
But, yeah, tried not to let it affect me, and, yeah, I held serve, tied game at 5-All.  I had match points at 5-4.
You know, it happens.  I was just trying to keep level-headed.
Q. Lleyton say anything to you after the game?
JORDAN THOMPSON: More of a congratulations.  Yeah.  That was really it.
Q. How much did you feel like you had to fight against your nerves?  I mean, it was quite the atmosphere out there, but after having those match points, what did you have to do to sort of recalibrate to cross the finish line?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Yeah, I mean, I don't think I was too nervous.  Maybe I played a little bit more defensive on one of the match points earlier, maybe 5-4.  Yeah, he played a good point, too.
Yeah, it's just a point, it's a game point.  And obviously disappointed to lose it, but just keep fighting hard the next point.  That's what I tried to do.
Q. Doesn't get any easier.  Kei Nishikori is next.
JORDAN THOMPSON: Yeah, never gets any easier.  Playing David Ferrer, going on to play Kei Nishikori.  Yeah, that's what these tournaments are about.
Q. Is it exciting?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Yeah, definitely.  It's good to be at this level and even better to be in Australia.
Q. Having beaten Ferrer, do you go into tomorrow or the next day giving you sort of a chance against the world No. 5?
JORDAN THOMPSON: I think you've got to give yourself a chance no matter who you play.  Otherwise there's no point in taking the court.
Next focus is doubles with Thanasi tomorrow, playing the world No. 1.  It's another good test for us.  I'm sure he's happy to be back on court.
Q. A couple of time violations before your serve.  Recovering from long rallies?  Is that kind of...
JORDAN THOMPSON: It happens when the conditions are hot and humid.  I was trying to go to the towel so my hand isn't sweaty or my grip is not wet.
Yeah, I mean, I guess when the rally goes longer, it's just harder to keep going quicker.
Q. When you have to go on second serve, you still fired it down like a first serve, anyway?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Yeah, I didn't really think too much about it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT