APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 11, 2016
Jordan Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. THOMPSON/M. Klizan
6-2, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Nice to get into the second round.  Probably not ideal circumstances, but how do you feel about your performance?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Yeah, never the way you want to win a match.  A little bit of a nervous start second service game, but felt like I settled in and served pretty well.  Pretty happy with the serving.
Q. (Question regarding the weather.)
JORDAN THOMPSON: It was pretty hot out there so maybe that had a factor.  Can't really comment too much on him.
Q. Pretty tough next opponent.  What's your take on Bernie?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Yeah, very tough.  He's at a career-high ranking I think.  He's an awkward player.  His ball control is unbelievable.
Be a pretty tough match.
Q. How much do you have to do with him on a regular basis?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Barely anything.  Met him a few times.  I don't think I've ever hit a ball with him.  Really only watched him play on telly.
Q. Study him closely though?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Yeah, I mean, I've watched him play over the years.  He's actually only two years older than me, but in a way he's a lot of years older than me.  He's been on the tour for a long time and been a good player for a long time.
I don't know if I've watched him closely, but I've been watching his matches.
Q. How does that happen?  How do you go so long without having much to do with someone in the same country?
JORDAN THOMPSON: I guess his ranking takes him to better tournaments and I'm still trying to climb up the rankings.  I guess I'm playing challengers most of the time and he's playing these tournaments, ATPs, Grand Slams, so I don't really come across him too much.
Q. Do you since think this is a big occasion?
JORDAN THOMPSON: I mean, it could be and it might not be.  Try not to think about it too much.  Try to go out there and play my game.  If it works, it works.  If not, another tournament next week.
Q. (Question regarding Bernard Tomic and other young Australians.)
JORDAN THOMPSON: It's great for them.  I love hearing stories about them doing so well.  Sort of brings the morale up.  Every Aussie tennis player who hears about them wants to be as good as them.  Yeah.  Trying to earn my way out there.
Q. (No microphone.)
JORDAN THOMPSON: Yeah, exactly.  Everyone wants success.  Watching those guys too as well is motivating.
Q. He is no stranger the controversy.  Do you hope that doesn't distract him from the game?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Highly doubt it will affect him.  Off court is off court.  On court probably just concentrate on the ball that's coming.
Yeah, I think I -- I don't think -- I don't know what the controversy is so pretty sure he probably wouldn't care.
Q. What do you see as your opportunity against him?  Where do you think you might have an advantage?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Honestly I have no idea.  I guess he's got everything on me:  he's experienced; he's older; he's beaten much better players than I have.
Just give it my best.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT