GREAT OCEAN ROAD OPEN
February 2, 2021
Jordan Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. THOMPSON/G. Mager
4-6, 6-4, 6-3
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. Tough three-set match; what did you do to get back into it after losing the first set?
JORDAN THOMPSON:   Yeah, it's tough conditions.  I don't think I did much wrong when I was out there.  I played one bad service game.  That's the only time I got broken in the match and I felt like I was in a lot of these service games and a few break points, a lot of 30-all games and just had to keep sticking at it and eventually broke through in the end and fell over the line, just.
Q. How good is it to be back in Melbourne?
JORDAN THOMPSON:   Yeah, it's great.  I was in Sydney for a long time, which is great, as well, did my two-week quarantine after Paris Masters which was no good, but everyone has got to do it and that's why Australia has got it under control.
Yeah, just -- yeah, I was lucky enough to do quarantine again.  It's good to be down here and living a normal life.
Q. What happened with two weeks' quarantine after Paris Masters?
JORDAN THOMPSON:   Yeah, that was tough.  I just felt like a sardine in my room.  I had a bike, I had a treadmill, I had all this gym equipment, bands, dumbbells, Swiss ball and I had a king-sized bed to top it off.  The bed took up so much room, and I just felt like the only space I had was in the bathroom.
So yeah, it was tough.  No fresh air, no windows, food is not fantastic, so Uber Eats got a workout.
Q. Who arranged all the equipment?  Did you or did Tennis Australia help you?
JORDAN THOMPSON:   I organized most of it and Tennis Australia organized a little bit of it, as well.  Yeah, it was a little bit of a combo.
Q. You actually had some great results last year.  What was the highlight?
JORDAN THOMPSON:   Probably fourth round of the US Open was a highlight.  Coming back, second tournament after the break and playing fourth round of the US Open.
And then probably I'd say -- actually probably the highlight was third round of Paris and playing Rafa as my last match of the year.  Yeah, that was pretty special, as well.
Q. When you were just talking about the conditions, were you meaning the weather conditions like windy over here, or the fact that conditions playing in front of a crowd and playing a first match after so long?
JORDAN THOMPSON:   Yeah, no, more the conditions.  It was swirly, really windy.  It was pretty cold.  But yeah, I think I'm used to no crowds now.  Like there wasn't anyone at the US Open or through Europe for the most part anyway.  I'm getting used to the emptiness.
Q. Six Aussie men to get through to the second round of this tournament.  What does that mean?
JORDAN THOMPSON:   Yeah, it's a good day for the Aussies.  We've had a fair few get through, even yesterday.  Nick just won then, so we've got another one through.  I know he's in the other tournament, but yeah, pretty good day.
Q. Your practice with him beforehand, how much did that help you prepare?
JORDAN THOMPSON:   Yeah, it's good.  Went down to Canberra because I thought Sydney was going to remain a red zone to getting into Victoria.  So I went to Canberra when they opened up borders and did two weeks down there so I could come straight down here with no hassles.
Yeah, hit with Nick for two weeks and it was great.  Good facilities in Canberra, good practice partner, and yeah, got a lot of work done.
Q. Where are you in Sydney?  And then to be able to train in Sydney?
JORDAN THOMPSON:   Yeah, I live in Cherrybrook.  I mostly trained -- actually I had a house in Middle Dural with Matt Reed, Adam Kennedy's house, or I was at Sydney Olympic Park.  But yeah, sometimes they shut down, so it was good just to travel 10 minutes and hit at a house and just be in normal surroundings.
Q. Last year has kind of been a year of having to adapt.  Have you learned anything about yourself in the time?
JORDAN THOMPSON:   Actually usually I don't mind at hotels, just going to the courts and then going back to the hotel.  It doesn't really faze me.  But then when the option got pulled for me not being able to like go to restaurants and stuff, I didn't realize how much I loved that.
So it's good to be here in Melbourne and be able to do whatever you want because it takes a bit of a toll on you.  By the time Paris was finished, I was ready for a break.  Yeah, it's pretty tiring, pretty taxing just going to hotel, courts, hotel, courts, and then a hotel straight into another bubble.  Yeah, it's pretty brutal.
Q. The fact that you were not able to get to restaurants and things like that, does it give you a greater appreciation now about your life and your career and what you do for a living?
JORDAN THOMPSON:   Yeah, 100 percent.  Yeah, when I got back to Australia I just -- and got out of hotel quarantine, I just thought, how good is this.  And even playing a tournament at the moment, you can get in the car, you've got the option of renting a car, I think.  You can do whatever you want.  Like just even going for a walk, I'll never take that for granted again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT