AEGON CHAMPIONSHIP
June 20, 2017
Jordan Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. THOMPSON/A. Murray
7-6, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Was that ace on match point the sweetest one you ever hit?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Yeah.  Definitely when I saw that hit the backboard, I was pretty pumped.
Q. Lucky Loser, but fortunate about that win.  You must be delighted with the way you played.
JORDAN THOMPSON: Yeah, I played really well.  Served great.  Got a lot of free points.  Gave myself every opportunity in the rallies and didn't make too many errors.  Yeah, it was a good day at the office.
Q. Tell us a bit about how you found out.  You lost in qualifying on Saturday?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Sunday.
Q. Sunday.  Were you hanging around to play doubles or...
JORDAN THOMPSON: No, not planning to play doubles.
Q. How did you become available to play?
JORDAN THOMPSON: I signed in for the Lucky Loser spot.  There weren't too many matches yesterday, but I hung around.  If someone was going to pull out, I was always going to be there.  I knew I was the next one in.
Then this morning, I just put my transport, planning on doing the same thing, signing in, waiting around.  Yeah, pretty much when I got here, someone pulled out, and yeah, I got to play Andy.
Q. About what time was that?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Around 12:00.
Q. Did not having much time to think about it kind of help you?
JORDAN THOMPSON: I don't know.  When I heard I was playing Andy, I was pretty nervous.  Yeah, I just wanted to go out there and enjoy it.  I just did everything usual.  I warmed up, had some food, and got ready to go out there.
Q. Having gone out already in the tournament, did you see this as a free swing and free pass to lift the weight off your shoulders?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Yeah, I got a second chance at the tournament.  Yeah, I don't think there is anything in my game that's really, you know, to go on about swinging freely.  I haven't got the bigger body frame to do that like a Kokkinakis.  He played well.  He has a big game.  I don't have that.  Just gotta play to my game.
Q. Does this rank the best win of your career so far, would you say?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Yeah, definitely, beating the world No. 1 and Grand Slam champion, and beating him on grass at Queen's, yeah, it's definitely ranked No. 1.
Q. Did you watch Thanasi's match?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Yeah, I was watching it on the TV, not out there.
Q. What did you make of the way Andy played today?  Was he what you expected, or was he not as dominant as you thought he might be?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Oh, I think it's clear he wouldn't have had his best day today.  Yeah, I don't know what else to say to that.
Q. What part of his game did you think, oh, that wasn't quite as good as I thought it would be?
JORDAN THOMPSON: I think he made a couple of loose errors he usually wouldn't make.  Yeah, I think he just puts it down to he had a rough day at the office.
Q. (Indiscernible question.)
JORDAN THOMPSON: I was trying not think about that, but when I was serving for the match, I had two chances to serve it out.  If I'd have lost the game at 5-2, I had another chance.  Yeah, I guess at 5-2 when I was serving, I think, yeah, I can win.
Q. I think he only had break points in one game in the whole match.  Do you normally kind of serve that well?  Do you enjoy that sort of dominance on serve, or do you think he was returning badly or a combination of both?
JORDAN THOMPSON: I had a good serving day today.  Yeah, it's a grass court so it's quick.  I served at 70%.  I hit a fair few aces and got a fair few serve winners and unreturnables.  Yeah, but most of those points landed first serves so it makes it tough on grass.
Q. You had 12 aces today, just so you know.  Sometimes they say it's better to be lucky than good but I think you had both today.  As you go up against your next opponent, Sam Querrey, how do you look towards that to back up today and stay in it?
JORDAN THOMPSON: I will do everything the same.  I will practice tomorrow.  Yeah, before the match, I'll obviously go through the usual routine, talk about Sam's game, what I want to do.  Yeah, just one step at a time.
Q. Could you tell us a bit about yourself?  We don't know much about you.  We know you like playing football, soccer.  Do you have a favorite English team that you follow?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Oh, no, I don't really watch the English Super League.  My favorite rugby league player was Brett Hodgson from Australia.  He came over here.  So I think he played maybe for St. Helens.  The only other team I know is Leeds.  So maybe them.
Q. Did you have any family or friends with you today?
JORDAN THOMPSON: No, I had my coach, Des Tyson.
Q. Have you spoken to anyone at home yet?
JORDAN THOMPSON: I haven't really checked my phone.  I just had a shower and got some food and spoke to Des.  And I saw a message from my dad, so I sent him back a message.
Q. When you were saying you were pretty nervous at the beginning when you found out, going out for the match, it's often said that serving out a set or serving out a match are the toughest games.  Did you feel pretty calm at the end or were you starting to get nervous again?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Yeah, when I say I was nervous before the match, yeah, I think I was nervous for about one minute.  I don't really get too nervous.  At the end of the day it's a tennis match.  Yeah, but when it got back to 30-All I was pretty calm and I landed two good first serves.  I didn't really think about it.  I was just thinking about, you know, playing the point.
Q. What does this win tell you about your level, your potential?  The last person to stop Andy Murray breaking serve in a match was back in 2015, Roger Federer.  What does this win tell you about how good you can be?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Yeah, I mean, I haven't really thought about it that much, either.  I didn't even know that stat.  But, yeah, I think it's all about backing up.  That's why he's the world No. 1.  He always has consistent results.  I think that's what I've got to try and do is have consistent results.
Q. Is grass your favorite surface?
JORDAN THOMPSON: No.  It's not my favorite surface, but I don't mind playing on it.
Q. What is your favorite?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Probably the blue hard courts of Australia.  That's what I train on in the Aussie summers on the blue courts.  That's my favorite surface.
Q. Did you see Thanasi after his result today?
JORDAN THOMPSON: I haven't seen him.  No, I know he's on the doubles court now, and I was getting ready to play.  I haven't come across him yet.
Q. Tennis runs in your family.  Both your parents played.  You got steered towards it a bit?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Yeah, I played all sports when I was younger.  Tennis was my favorite.  I played soccer, I played Touch 40, I did athletics, and I liked them all.  My parents didn't really make me play anything.  They made me make my own decision.  I always wanted to play tennis.
Q. Do you remember your first win as a child?
JORDAN THOMPSON: That's the first time I have ever been asked that.
I think I kind of -- yeah, I think I can.  I think I was about 8.  My first tournament my dad threw me in at the local, at his courts, and yeah, I think it was maybe like best of five games or something.
Q. When you were 7 or 8 you were playing Nick Kyrgios.  You two go back a long way?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Yeah, he always used to travel down from Canberra.  I don't know if that's down.  Travel up.
That was the only tournaments he had to play.  There weren't many junior tournaments.  Everyone played the same ones.  We always came across each other.  We played each other so many times.
Yeah, I knew him since I was 8.  I have known him a long time.  We always joke about it when I see him now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT