AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2017
Jordan Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. THOMPSON/J. Sousa
6-7, 4-6, 6-3, 6-2, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Where does that rank, mate?
JORDAN THOMPSON: I think that's awesome for me.  I think that's ranked number one in my books.  Yeah, coming down two sets to love at the Australian Open first round on Show Court 2, yeah, that was awesome.
Q. Describe the comeback, when you felt the match was turning in your favor.
JORDAN THOMPSON: I think maybe the third set when I finally got a break, served out the third set.  I think I broke the first game of the fourth, got on a little bit of a roll.  Yeah, just went from there.
Q. In the fifth set, the timeout for the dizziness, did that sway you a little bit, affect your momentum?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Not really.  Maybe a touch.  I went down 15-40, but still managed to hold.  Won that set 6-1.  Yeah, I wouldn't say so.
Q. At two sets down, what is going through your head?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Just hang in there.  I kept telling myself that.  Yeah, compete.  Yeah, just try to make as many balls as possible and keep going.
Q. The fact that you've had three previous first-round defeats here, a win today, does it make it all the more sweeter?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Yeah, definitely.  I was staring down the barrel of 0-4.  Especially coming back two sets down, yeah, I can't describe it.
Q. A bit of a measure of improvement as well?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Yeah, I lost to him two years ago out the back on Court 13, I think.  Yeah, to beat him now, yeah, it's pretty special.
Q. Continues a pretty big month for you.
JORDAN THOMPSON: Yeah, I've had a good January so far.  Hopefully I can keep it up.
Q. I think you told the broadcast about Lleyton Hewitt's influence on your career.  He was in your box today.  Talk about his influence.
JORDAN THOMPSON: Yeah, I watched him as a kid.  I loved the way he competed.  I saw him coming back in matches.  To have him there was awesome, the person who has done it himself.
He's helped me a lot.  He's come out to practice.  He's taken me out to his place in Sydney a few times just to get some hours in on the court.
Q. The Australian fans were on full voice.  Did that help at all?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Yeah, definitely.  The crowd can influence matches.  I think you saw that in the fifth set.  I think my opponent was getting pretty frustrated.  If his concentration is not on the match, sure, why not.
Q. When did you find he lost that concentration in the match, if at all?
JORDAN THOMPSON: I don't know if he lost concentration.  I think if he's talking to the crowd, he's not really engaged in the match.  That was at 4-1 in the fifth set.
Q. You found you could play that to your advantage?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Yeah, I kept going about my business, keep concentrating.
Q. I don't want to put a negative spin on it, do you think there's a line to be drawn when someone tries to put him off and he has to go tell that person off?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Not really.  I mean, it's all part of the game.  It's happened to me a few times.  Obviously not too much at this level.  Yeah, you got to deal with the crowd.  They're not always going to be going for you.  If you can't handle it, that's bad luck.
Q. Have you seen the score in the match for your opponent, 11-10 in the fifth.  Do you think that could help you?
JORDAN THOMPSON: I think that's the wrong opponent.
Q. Dominic Thiem next up.  Have you played him before?
JORDAN THOMPSON: No, never.  He's a quality opponent.  He's top 10.  He's proved himself.  He made semifinals of the French.  I'm sure he's had other great results.  I'm looking forward to getting out there and testing myself against top players.
Q. Is it one of those ones where you have nothing to lose because he's highly ranked, or because of the roll you're on at the moment, you put a little bit of pressure on yourself?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Look, I just go out there every match.  There's no point taking the court if you don't think you can win.  I'm going to go out there, do my best.  If it pays off, it pays off.  If not, there's always another tournament.
Q. Have you had a chance to speak to any of your Australian teammates, the ones going down to round two?
JORDAN THOMPSON: Only Alex De Minaur.  Been training with him a fair bit.  In the summer he stayed at my house a few times.
Yeah, he's probably the only one I've spoken to so far.  Haven't had a chance to check my phone.
Q. Have you two influenced each other?
JORDAN THOMPSON: I don't know about that.  We've been pushing each other in training.  Lleyton has been doing that as well.  It's great to have a bunch of us in the second round.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT