ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY NATIONAL BANK
July 29, 2008
Sharon Fichman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  J. CRAYBAS/S. Fichman
6-4, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. You had a veteran out there today. How did it go for you?
 SHARON FICHMAN: It was definitely an experience, being my first main draw match ever in a WTA event. She played a great match. Today I came up a little short, made a few errors where I probably shouldn't have, fought as hard as I could, but the outcome wasn't in my favor. Hopefully next time it will be. 

 Q. You both seemed to have trouble with your serve. Was the wind a factor out there? 
 SHARON FICHMAN: Yeah. I mean, today was a pretty windy day. I think I tend to have more trouble with my serve than her. 
 Yeah, definitely did have a little bit to do with that. But, I mean, I'm just going to go practice and hopefully it will be better next time. 

 Q. What was it like for you to play in this tournament, main draw?
 SHARON FICHMAN: Well, especially since it's in Canada and me being Canadian, it was a great experience. It really felt amazing to have the Canadian support and people cheering for me. So I really enjoyed it and I'm really looking forward to it next year. 

 Q. What are your plans now? Are you still an amateur?
 SHARON FICHMAN: Yeah, I'm still an amateur. I just graduated high school last Monday actually. So this is basically the beginning of my career. I was a full-time high school student at a regular public school. So it was really hard for me to travel and play. 
 I'm just really excited to be here and I'm hoping that with more tournaments and more experience that I should be climbing the rankings. 

 Q. Are you going to turn pro, go to college?
 SHARON FICHMAN: Well, right now I am an amateur. Since I'm not -- my results aren't significant enough at this time to make me want to change to a pro. I'm just going to keep the status just in case. We'll see what happens. 
 It's always an option. The way I really look at it is like worst case I go to Harvard, which is not a bad worst case at all. 

 Q. Are you accepted there?
 SHARON FICHMAN: Yeah. I mean, a lot of the Ivy Leagues have talked to me, are very interested. So my admissions are acceptable. Yeah, that's always an option. 

 Q. What is the name of the high school you were at?
 SHARON FICHMAN: Forest Hill Collegiate Institute. 

 Q. That's in Toronto?
 SHARON FICHMAN: Yes. 

 Q. The university is obviously an attractive thing. What would you be studying at Harvard?
 SHARON FICHMAN: It would probably be economics or business if I were to go to school. 

 Q. Do you have anything coming up tennis-wise?
 SHARON FICHMAN: Yeah. I should be playing the $50,000 tournament in the Bronx and then I got a bunch of tournaments lined up in the States in about four weeks or so after that. Probably staying mainly in North America. But I have a good amount of tournaments for the rest of the year. 

 Q. Challengers or futures?
 SHARON FICHMAN: Challengers, futures, and then there's the tournament in QuÃƒ ©bec City. I should be playing that one. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT