CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: FLORIDA VS VIRGINIA
December 27, 2019
Lamical Perine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LAMICAL PERINE: It's just crazy knowing these guys are actually leaders for this team, people that look up to those guys, just knowing how much they've been through, they can tell their story. People should be able to get motivation like that, as well.
Q. What's the culture like to make a game like this? You know, the College Football Playoff overshadows a lot of stuff, but the Orange Bowl is a huge game, to make sure the team shows up, what's the mentality that's created?
LAMICAL PERINE: Make sure everybody just comes out and -- it's still a game to play. We don't need all this distraction. Of course that comes with being in a New Year's Six bowl, being in Miami and everything like that, focusing on winning the game.
Q. You guys talked about going from 10 to 11 wins. What will that mean going forward, recruiting, evolving?
LAMICAL PERINE: Just knowing how much the program has been through the last two, three years, and just with coaching changes, adversity, being 4-7, to now we've got a lot of guys that understand the program coming in, just knowing what Coach Mullen expects, having two 10-win seasons back to back, that's a big statement. More to come.
Q. (Indiscernible) how important is all that stuff happening now going to be for the program going forward? I know you didn't get to experience all of that, but do you think recruits put even more -- even in the short time you've been playing college football, recruits put more and more emphasis on things like that?
LAMICAL PERINE: Honestly, when I was coming out, it wasn't even a transfer portal at the moment. Just knowing how these guys are now, I mean, more like they like social media, and social media is a big thing for people. I feel like that brings a lot more attention.
Q. Who are some of the young receivers that you think will emerge next year?
LAMICAL PERINE: Dionte Marks, Ja'Markis Weston, those two guys are going to be great receivers for us in the future. And Trent Whittemore. He's a great guy.
Q. What do those guys do well?
LAMICAL PERINE: Trent can catch the ball, possession catch. He's more like, who would I say, like a Julian Edelman type guy. And Dionte Marks is super fast, can do whatever, man. Just going to be a great kick returner for us, punt returner. Ja'Markis Weston is probably the fastest guy on the team, at 230 can run a 4.4, 4.3, great athlete.
Q. I saw Whittemore, he had made a couple big plays.
LAMICAL PERINE: He's going to be good, man.
Q. What kind of work is that going to take in the off-season for all those guys to get on the same page? Because Kyle benefitted quite a bit having those seniors --
LAMICAL PERINE: Knowing that we're losing like four or five seniors, right, it's just surreal, man. Those guys came in together, and they had to fight through adversity. They had to learn to play with each other, get chemistry with each other. So it was just the same thing with those guys. They've got to do the same thing.
Q. There's a lot of outside opinion that's kind of mixed on guys missing a bowl game, getting ready for the draft if they declare early. What's the teammates' perspective on that?
LAMICAL PERINE: Honestly, man, I feel like that's up to the person who's playing. You never know what somebody is going through. At the same time, people are going to be going through injury, trying not to risk injury for a bowl game. If they know that they have a legitimate chance at the NFL, I mean, it's not that big a deal, honestly. If you miss it, you miss it, basically.
Q. It says a lot about this team, though, that everyone bought in?
LAMICAL PERINE: Yeah, mostly everybody did. CJ unfortunately -- I wish he would have played, but he has a goal. Everybody has a dream and aspiration of going to the NFL, so I totally understand that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT