BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 10, 2005
Rahshon Clark
Jared Homan
Wayne Morgan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COACH WAYNE MORGAN:  I thought the key to our game today, we had great intensity when the game began.  We had great offensive and defensive intensity.  Offensively I thought we played well, we made a lot of shots early.  Defensively we really played good defense and they didn't really get anything early, it gave us an opportunity to get like a lead of like 17. 

Q.  Rahshon and Jared, is it hard when you are up 21 to 1 and it is a game like that to keep that intensity level up or because you know what is at stake with this tournament you can let it ride it through? 

JARED HOMAN:  You want to try to put the foot down in that position and not give them a chance to get back in.  You give a team like Baylor who is scrapping for their lives, a chance to get back in the game, and they are liable to come back and beat you.  And we also wanted to get up enough so we can get the other guys in the game.  You know those guys bust their butts hard in practice, we want to get them some court time so that was big for us to put some points on the board. 

RAHSHON CLARK:  He said everything I was going to say.  Any other questions? 

Q.  I know it's kind of a broken record now; how do you feel about your N.C.A.A. chances; does this kind of sew it up you think a little?  What is your best guess at this point?

RAHSHON CLARK:  We are hoping that we did enough to get in the N.C.A.A., but like I said, at every press conference, we just got to think of it one game at a time and hopefully everybody will think that we did enough to be in the N.C.A.A. tournament. 

JARED HOMAN:  I would have to agree with him.  We did enough to this point to try to get in the N.C.A.A. tournament.  I think that's kind of in the back of our minds right now.  We are trying to focus on the Texas Tech the next game and keep winning games and try win this tournament.  We like to think we are in so we're going to try and focus on winning this tournament. 

Q.  Do you have initial thoughts on matching up with Texas Tech again?

JARED HOMAN:  They are very good team, well coached, they will be ready to play.  They have had a couple of days off so they will be rested.   We just played, we got some -- I don't want to say we are tired, but I think we got a little game-time experience so hopefully we're sharper.  We just got to build on that win that we had against them at home, look at that film,  try and do the same things and execute the same stuff

Q.  Baylor hadn't played in a tournament in two years.  You got on 'em  pretty quick.  Do you think they might have been a little shellshocked when you jumped on them 17 to nothing? 

JARED HOMAN:  When we got up 17 to nothing I think that was just more of us just coming out determined wanting to win this game.  I think Baylor might have been a little surprised.  I think they were confident and they were trying to come in with the attitude that they needed to to try and win the tournament to get into post season but I think we were more determined tonight.  We worked extremely hard and worked well as a team to get them out of the game early so they won't hang around and give them a chance to win it; which was very important to us. 

Q.  Can you talk about that opening three you get; how big was that for your confidence just getting off to a career-high game?

RAHSHON CLARK:  I just came into the game with the mindset I was going to make every single shot that I took.  So that was a very big shot.  It got me and my team routed up, so I felt it was a big shot.  Everybody else did too.  That's when we just put the pressure on and just started doing what we have to do to win. 

Q.  I noticed as you came out in the introductions, kind of get together, your teammates -- Curtis had to remind you, hey you have got to go out and shake hands.  Then you come out and light it up.  Take me through maybe the opening minutes a little bit and the atmosphere and your reaction. 

RAHSHON CLARK:  When I first came out I was hyped as you all can see.  I was ready to get on the court, and try to come up with a win.  I forgot that I had to go shake hands, be honest with you, but Curtis reminded me so then I went out and did it. 

Q.  Talk about the challenge and importance of keeping Bruce in check?

JARED HOMAN:  Bruce is a very good player.  We knew he was capable of hitting three-pointers, especially in our zone we had to make sure that we cheated out to him, played him a couple of steps over the three-point line, just so he can't get going.  He got some open looks and hit some deep shots.  We had to try and keep him in check.  He is one of their better players.. 

Q.  Can it be difficult for a team to keeps its concentration after you got the big early lead?

COACH WAYNE MORGAN: It can be sometimes but one of the things we have had to do in terms of growing as a team is to be able to sustain your level of play and your intensity even when you do get a big lead and try to play the same. 

Q.  Talk a little bit about Texas Tech and how difficult it might be for you guys to turnaround less than 24 hours and play back-to-back games?

COACH WAYNE MORGAN: Well, obviously we have a great deal of respect for Coach Knight.  We know he had a lot of time to prepare so you can only imagine the various things that he's going to use that we have not had a chance to see.  We have to try to prepare for their personnel more so -- what they are going to do in a situation like this.  We think Texas Tech is a very good team, very capable team.  I think it going to be a very good game tomorrow. 

Q.  Does this do it for you as far as getting to the big dance?

COACH WAYNE MORGAN: I think the kids gave a very good answer.  We hope we have done enough to get into that tournament but right now we're in this tournament and so I think we have got to concentrate on this tournament and we're not in the position to make the other decisions to know what is going on in the selection room so the best way that we can help ourselves is by playing well in this tournament. 

Q.  The first eight minutes, was this just another case of how your offense kind of fuels your defense and vice versa?

COACH WAYNE MORGAN:  Yeah, I think so, Bill.  I think our offense helped our defense and our defense helped our offense because we came out shooting the ball well and got us into our press and enabled us to get a couple of steals and to throw them off balance a little bit.  So both helped the other. 

Q.  When a game goes like this when you are standing over there, what are the things you are looking for and looking at?

COACH WAYNE MORGAN:  First looking to see if we can maintain our intensity throughout because that's critical not to let that drop off.  And then whether it's defensive or offensive execution trying to accomplish the things that you set up in the framework of your game plan.

Q.  You like that this game was a little bit -- obviously you guys got a little bit ahead, be able to rest a couple of guys before tomorrow's contest?

COACH WAYNE MORGAN: I thought that our starters played a good amount of minutes but we were able to rest them a little bit more going down the stretch and we got some intermittent rest during the game for the guys so hopefully we'll have fresh legs tomorrow.

Q.  In that first game against Texas Tech what do you recall that worked so well that you need to have work just as well for you tomorrow?

COACH WAYNE MORGAN: Well, I think we have -- to beat a team like Texas Tech we're going to have to be able to execute in every aspect of the game; in other words, you are going it to have to be able to play good defense and accomplish the things you set out to accomplish defensively, you are going to have to be able to execute on offense in order to have a chance to score.  And in our particular case which is important for us we certainly have to rebound the ball whenever we have rebounded poorly we have struggled.  So we're going to have to do everything. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT