NL DIVISION SERIES: ROCKIES VS BREWERS
October 7, 2018
Erik Kratz
Orlando Arcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Hi, Erik.  Orlando is 24, and I'm wondering what advice you would give your 24-year-old self if you could go back.  
ERIK KRATZ: Good luck getting out of extended.  (Laughter.)   
Man, I'm always impressed with guys that are in the Big Leagues and are able to have success at a young age, not just the 20-year-olds, anybody before the age of 25.  It's something that's impressive to me, to be able to be up here and have the skills to be able to do what they do.   
But I would just tell him that you're never satisfied.  They should never be satisfied with any success, no matter what it is, whether it's Yelly as an MVP or his second year in the Big Leagues for Orlando.  It's something that you're never satisfied because when you are satisfied, they'll get rid of you real quick.   
 Q.  Orlando, it's been a different year for you, some ups and downs.  What are the major lessons that you've learned this year about yourself?  
ORLANDO ARCIA: Most important I think has been keeping my head strong, having a strong head, saying positive at all times and just working on everything day-to-day.  Even if things didn't go right, you've still got to keep working on it and get better every day, and then take whatever all the other guys are telling you, take all their advice that you gain from the guys and be very thankful that all the guys have been on my back and been supporting me from the beginning.  It's been awesome.   
 Q.  Orlando, when you're out there playing short with Moustakas and Shaw and Aggie, is pretty much everything your ball?  
ORLANDO ARCIA: Yeah, sometimes before the game starts, Travis will -- I don't know if he's saying it jokingly or not, but he'll say any ball in the here air, it's all you.  He would say, no, you can get it.  He would say, no, no, you got it.  So I guess it is.   
 Q.  Erik, does it change at all for Wade Miley, the usage of the cut fastball being here at Coors Field, and also just mixing in the breaking speed stuff or the game plan, especially for Wade?  
ERIK KRATZ: No.  I think you're always evaluating it start to start.  Sometimes the cutter isn't working in Miller Park, so it's not necessarily just here.  You don't know what you're going to have until you get out in the game, and you make the evaluation that way.   
So we'll make our game plan, and we'll kind of go off of that.  It's something that he's had experience and success here, so it's something that we can just work off of and kind of evaluate it in game.   
 Q.  Erik, did you see that stat that the Brewers pulled up about you being the most veteran, shall we say, position player to start a post season game --  
ERIK KRATZ: Appreciate you not saying old.   
 Q.  -- since 1905.  We haven't had a chance to ask you what you think about a stat like that.  
ERIK KRATZ: Yeah, I mean, he was -- do you remember his name?  Lave Cross from Milwaukee, yeah, he was a really good third base man.  We played together in rookie ball.  (Laughter.)   
I think it's a cool -- whatever.  It's really cool.  It's something that you're -- I was in a Big League game, in a playoff game, so that's cool.  It's not something that I have any control over.  It's something that is part of history, so maybe in 113 years, some dude is going to be like, Erik Kratz -- is it Kratz?  What is that?  It's something that -- it's cool.  Any time you're part of baseball history on the positive side, it's really cool.   
 Q.  Erik, has the success you've had this year changed anything about the way you think about how long your playing career might go?  Have you had any thoughts about that?  
ERIK KRATZ: I don't know.  Yeah, I've always thought I'm going to play until they take the jersey off my back.  You have kids, and you have a wife and a family, and you kind of maybe reevaluate that, and you say, well, there will be an end.  And I'm getting close to the end.  I'm way closer to the end than to the beginning.   
But a successful year -- I had a successful year last year in AAA.  It didn't get me any Big League jobs, didn't get me any Big League opportunities in the off-season, so I will take whatever opportunities come my way, and we'll evaluate it.  And me and my wife will pray about it before the season, and if it's meant to be, then it's meant to be the end.  If it's not, I'll play again.   
You know, it's not anything that's -- retirement is not on my radar as, yep, this is when I'm going to do it.  I haven't had a good enough career to retire.  I'm just going to quit.  I'll just be out.  That's what's going to happen.   
 Q.  Orlando, thanks to the Brewers' excellent social media, we get to see a lot of videos of you and Suter in the dugout before games kind of getting a little beat going there.  It looks like you guys are mostly trying to irk Lorenzo Cain.  Can you tell us a little bit about what's going on there and if you've been successful getting to Lo at all?  
ORLANDO ARCIA: Suter is incredible.  Just having him around, having him in the dugout is awesome, the energy he brings every day is great to have around, and it's a big support for all of us.   
And then we just started out with Lo Cain, just we were trying to get him dancing, trying to get him to stand up and dance, and we still haven't gotten him dancing yet, but we've still got time.  So hopefully we'll get him dancing before the end of the season.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT