MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2021
Kevin Kisner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. Just tell us a little bit about what you're working on today and how the course was.
 KEVIN KISNER:   Yeah, first time over here since January.  It's a lot different than November.  There's a little bit of an adjustment with the conditions.  It's going to be pretty spicy.  If they keep progressing the conditions, I think we're in for a big weekend.
 Q. Do you like the forecast?
 KEVIN KISNER:   I love it if that thunderstorm stays away.  And if they start mowing down towards the green, that would be a lot easier too.  The greens are pure.  They're as fast and as firm as I've seen them in a long time.
 Q. Healthy competition among the Dogs today?
 KEVIN KISNER:   Yeah, we had a good time.  That kind of came together on the range.  I hadn't realized a lot of those guys hadn't been here in a number of years.  So it was a good time.  They were picking my brain pretty good.
 Q. I was going to say you're probably --
 KEVIN KISNER:   The elder statesman out there, which was a little bit weird.
 Q. You made at least one new fan this week, your buddy Brady Barnum.
 KEVIN KISNER:   Yeah, we brought him over to Palmetto Thursday.  His dad owns the restaurant in Columbus, Ohio, right near Muirfield Village, and I got to know him playing in the Memorial, and his son got in the Drive, Chip, and Putt, and then he came over here and won his age group.  So a heck of a weekend.
 Q. I heard you were working on a grip change or something like that.
 KEVIN KISNER:   I've just been progressing, trying to hit some higher iron shots into greens, and it's going to pay off this week if it works.  Just getting a little weaker and noticed that I'm not launching it high enough with irons when we get in firm conditions.
 Q. Is it easy to sort of get how the golf course played in November out of your system and remember how it used to be?
 KEVIN KISNER:   Yeah, for sure.  Today early on, it was a little bit difficult, you know, having an 8 iron in the 10 and 6 iron into 11, that's a far cry from what we were hitting in November.  Hopefully, the weather stays like this.  I don't think you could get better weather than what we had today, and it stays like this all week.
 Q. The sight lines a little different, because there's more people than in November, but not as many as usual?
 KEVIN KISNER:   It's nice to have people back out here.  It was fun to interact with them.  I like the number of people.  It's not overbearing, but you can still interact with some people that you see.  Not much on the sight lines.  It's not huge crowds yet.  I'm assuming there will be some more throughout the week.  It's kind of how we've done it on TOUR.
 You know, the golf course is just playing drastically different.  So totally different shot shapes around the greens and into the greens.
 Q. If you're playing the rest of the week, you'll just play nine holes?
 KEVIN KISNER:   Yeah, I'll probably just do nine the next two days.  I've probably been around here a hundred times.  So just work around the practice area and be ready to go for Thursday.
 Q. Did you win the match?
 KEVIN KISNER:   I lost 1 down, Harmon and I did.  No good.
 Q. You birdied 18?
 KEVIN KISNER:   I know.  It was all good.  We pressed for double, though (Laughter).
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT