WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 8, 2015
Kevin Kisner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What then are your thoughts on the week?  It's been a good one.  
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, it was a great week.  I just didn't hole the putts today that I did the first two days, so I couldn't really put any pressure on him.  He played solid all day and made a lot of putts.  Hats off it him, he played great.   
 Q.  You bounced back off the opening hole.  
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, you get in that rough today, it's wet and long and you just can't even hardly advance it.  I kept the ball in the fairway after that and had a lot of looks at birdie.  Just didn't hole in.  Made a nice one on the last to finish second.   
 Q.  Which I guess was a bit frustrating because it's par after par after par.  
KEVIN KISNER: Felt like I was never going to make a par or a birdie or a bogey.  Hit a lot of good putts and a lot of good shots and I just always build confidence off of that.   
 Q.  When you consider the back problems and the way that you've come into this event, this is a stunning finish, isn't it.  
KEVIN KISNER: Stunning, way beyond any expectations.  I just was hoping to finish 72 holes, let alone have a chance to win.  So I'm proud of myself the way I fought and battled through it and looking forward to some time off.   
 Q.  You're not getting hacked off by that second-place finish tag?  
KEVIN KISNER: No, what is that, four this year?  That's all right.  I'll keep finishing second and I'll keep giving myself a shot and I know I'll win one of them.   
 Q.  We've touched on this already, but for your season, this is a wonderful start to build up.  
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, locks up a card.  I don't have any guarantees past this year, so locks up a card already for the whole year.  I get to kind of free-wheel it from here out and hopefully have a lot of chances to win.   
 Q.  Did you ever have a chance to get into Shanghai and see anything?  
KEVIN KISNER: I did not but we're headed there shortly.   
 Q.  Finishing second at THE PLAYERS and this event --  
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, that's two pretty good paychecks.  That was a huge putt I made on the last hole.  I had to kind of psyche myself up to feel like that was an opportunity to make a big putt and make a statement for myself.   
 Q.  World Ranking points, gets you into these events, which really helps you stay in the Top-50?  
KEVIN KISNER: I call it like a union, once you get in, it's hard to get out.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT