WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 5, 2015
Kevin Kisner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What do you reckon a 64 to start here?  
KEVIN KISNER: The golf course was fantastic, receptive.  It was actually my first time around.  I didn't even play a practise round.  I loved it.  I liked the way it lays out, and fits my game pretty well.   
 Q.  Nice when first impressions are like that.  
KEVIN KISNER: It's actually good.  You don't know where all the bad stuff is, so you kind of just play like you're playing at home and it worked out well today.   
 Q.  Does this mean it was a late arrival and you didn't have the opportunity to practise properly?  
KEVIN KISNER: No, I had a little back injury and wanted to rest it yesterday so I could play today, and it worked out well so far.   
 Q.  Probably a stupid question; how is the back?  What you've showed a round like that, it must be good?  
KEVIN KISNER: It's not 100 percent but it's good enough to play.  I only have a couple more tournaments for the year, so get through these and get rested up over the off-season.   
 Q.  Is that the way you're looking at the end of this year; it's not the start of 2016 --  
KEVIN KISNER: I didn't really have any time off, so it's hard to feel like it's a new year.  I understand the way we work and I'll get going in January and that will feel like the new year to me.   
 Q.  I take it if you take stock of 2015, it's been pretty good, hasn't it?  
KEVIN KISNER: It's been a great year.  I gave myself a lot of chances, a lot of good rounds.  And hopefully I have a chance here on Sunday.   
 Q.  I have to ask your take on China, what you've seen of it so far and what you've experienced.  
KEVIN KISNER: I've been from the airport to the hotel and to the golf course, so I haven't seen much, but I have a friend here that came and watched today, so we are going to go hang out this afternoon.   
Conditions are unbelievable.  Fairways are perfect.  If you keep it out of the rough, you'll make a lot of birdies.   
 Q.  I heard about a little back tweak.  
KEVIN KISNER: It was weird.  I did it on 16 on Sunday in Malaysia.  It was really bad the last three days, and then yesterday afternoon, I got some meds from the European doctor, try to knock some of it out.  I've had it in the past, just flares up randomly.  Still wasn't great today, but I can hit.  That's the first time I've hit was today.   
 Q.  Any treatment other than drugs you took?  
KEVIN KISNER: I've been working with the physio in the locker room.  He's been working on it since Monday.   
You know, my hat's off to the European guys.  When I come and do this stuff and play with these guys, they act like it's no big deal how much they travel.  We complain about Atlanta to L.A.   
 Q.  So not sure if I overheard that right, but this course you said sets up for you.  What do you like about it?  
KEVIN KISNER: I just like the way the tee shots fit my eye.  I stood on every tee I said, looks like over that bunker, at that tree and my caddie is like, yeah, perfect.  Not every week is that way, and it was weird, today, just kind of stood on the tee and it looked good to me.   
 Q.  What did you do on 16?  How did you play that?  
KEVIN KISNER: 16, I laid up and hit a wedge to like 12 feet and made it.  I didn't know -- caddie said probably the best way to do it.   
 Q.  He obviously had to walk the golf course?  
KEVIN KISNER: He knew.  He pointed me around.  I'm sure I'll never hear the end of that, how good a caddie he is.   
 Q.  What do you do with a back like this after the round?  
KEVIN KISNER: I'm going to go get some treatment and ice and hang out.  It's tough to get ice around here, though.   
 Q.  So many of these guys you've seen throughout majors you've played and the WGCs, does it feel like it's any different here --  
KEVIN KISNER: Not really.  Only the different noise when you hit a good shot.  That's the only thing that you know you're here.  Listening to Dustin and Rickie come up through there and somebody hit a good one and it was different than you hear in the US.   
The golf, it all seems the same.  Grass is very much what we play and especially in the northeast, it kind of reminds me of it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT