RBC HERITAGE
April 18, 2015
Kevin Kisner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Kevin, you played so well here on a Saturday in front of all of the folks here in South Carolina.   It had to be a thrill for you?  
KEVIN KISNER:   Yeah, it's fun.   This is a great tournament.   You see all the people out here.   Obviously Heritage is turning into an awesome event.   Hopefully the weather stays away tomorrow, and we can have another good day.  
   
 Q.   You had a chance to finish birdie, birdie there, but it got away from you.   But still an excellent day all around.   
KEVIN KISNER:   Yeah, you know, I hit it good.   I had a lot of chances, not anything real close, but within that 10‑to‑15‑feet range.   I'll go hit some putts this afternoon and try to dial in that putter for tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you maximized all opportunities out there?   
KEVIN KISNER:   I probably left a couple of putts out there.   But I got up and down on a few greens I miss, so that's always nice.   I'll take 4‑under, no bogey just about any day of the week.  
   
 Q.   You've got to chase tomorrow.   What's your mentality as you try to‑‑  
KEVIN KISNER:   I'll try to stick with the process.   The kind of things that I've been doing, and hopefully the results will come.   Whatever happens, happens.   If I keep playing like I'm doing, hopefully I'll have a chance.  
   
 Q.   Talk about your round a little bit.   
KEVIN KISNER:   Yeah, I played solid all day, no bogeys.   Gave myself a lot of chances.   Hit a lot of quality iron shots.   Kept the ball in the fairway, which is what you've got to do around this place.   Had a great round with Jim.   We kind of fed off each other, and hopefully we'll keep it going tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Does that help when you have a playing partner that's playing well, and you can kind of feed off each other?  
KEVIN KISNER:   Yeah, absolutely.   I mean you'd rather have somebody playing well than playing poorly.   We had fun, he's a great guy, and looking forward to tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   What would be your thoughts on tomorrow, if the weather comes in, on the early start time?       
KEVIN KISNER:   You can't do anything about the weather.   I just stick with my process, do what I'm doing, and results will come.  
   
 Q.   Much different golf course than a lot of courses you play.   What do you like most about this place?  
KEVIN KISNER:   I love being able to work the ball both ways.   Not having to stand up there and try to see who can hit it the farthest and not worried about if it's in the rough or not.   I think this is such an awesome golf course, I wish we played more of them.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT