FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 7, 2014
Kevin Kisner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   So how does this delay rank among -- you guys deal with it all the time.
    KEVIN KISNER:   This one is up there.   This has been a little wild, especially we've got fog and thunderstorms.   We've got it all.   I can't think of anything else we can a delay for. 
    Hopefully we get a little break here and get the second round in and get going in the 3rd round.

Q.   A little bit of a roll.   Had the bogey on 8.   You finish up.   You see Ben way out there.   Is it more now just focusing on you and instead of trying to see that gap and how you close it?
    KEVIN KISNER:   You want to close that gap a little bit.   Obviously, you're going to need some help.   There's not many 9-unders laying around Southwind especially how long it's playing after all the rain.   So, you know, if he stumbles a little bit and you get it going, that gap can change quickly.

Q.   You're one of the 41 guys in the field at Pinehurst in a few days.   With all these delays, when do you start thinking how many more delays can I deal with before --
    KEVIN KISNER:   It's on the brain, that's for sure.   I have a lot going on.   My wife is going to have a baby on Monday so I have that going on, too.   So either way I got to get out of here Sunday night.   Hopefully it all works out.   If not, there's plenty more golf tournaments to play.

Q.   Being a dad, that's the most important thing. 
    For you guys that are playing in the Open, does there come a time and another delay or two where you say, "Look, I don't even know if I can stay around because I got to get there"?
    KEVIN KISNER:   Absolutely.   I can't remember last time I played Pinehurst.   I'm going to need a practice round.   You know, you just got to play it by ear.   It's a tough call to make.   I'm in a position where I need another good finish so I have a shot to do it here so I'm going to play as much as I can.   If I have to leave, I have to leave. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT