WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 2, 2014
Kevin Kisner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Even par in the opening round and 6‑under today, maybe highlighted by that approach shot to 7.   Tough hole location. 
KEVIN KISNER:   That was a good shot.   I was trying to get it over to the left there and it stayed straight right at it.   Always nice when that happens.   Made a lot of putts today so that always helps the score. 

Q.   Was that the key to your round, made more putts? 
KEVIN KISNER:   Yeah, absolutely, anytime I chipped to the green 4 or 5 feet, which you're going to do out here, I made all those.   Hit some good shots and made a nice little run there. 

Q.   How were conditions?   Obviously no wind, sun wasn't out, conditions favorable today? 
KEVIN KISNER:   That's probably the first time all year that I didn't have to ask my caddy where the wind was on any shot for 15 holes.   So, yeah, it's favorable, the greens are firm, you still gotta get the ball in the fairway to have a chance to get it close.   You're going to be putting from 20 feet out here, given how firm the greens are, so making a 5‑footer for a putt is huge. 

Q.   Back out on TOUR for the second time, slow year, couple of tied 20s.   What's been the key for your turn‑around for your play this week? 
KEVIN KISNER:   It's gotta be the putter.   I've been striking it all year and then struggling with the flagstick, which is normally one of my strengths, so this week, these greens are pure, and I feel comfortable on 'em and the ball is starting where I'm looking, which is nice. 

Q.   66? 
KEVIN KISNER:   Yeah. 

Q.   Best way to wrap up a Friday and head to the weekend.   Tell me about your round. 
KEVIN KISNER:   It was solid all day.   Anytime I missed a green and got in trouble, I was able to get it up and down, chip it close enough to make a putt.   All those things kept the momentum going, anytime I missed a green. 
Made a nice eagle on 7 to get comfortable, get 3‑under par and have a chance to chase down the leaders. 

Q.   The position you're in, you're not in the lead but they're within reach?
KEVIN KISNER:   Absolutely, and this golf course, anytime you can make a mistake and make a bogey, and the lead is not too far away, so hopefully I have a shot and I can get up there in contention on Sunday. 

Q.   If there was something you were pleased about with your round today what was it? 
KEVIN KISNER:   Putting for sure.   First round in the entire 2014 where I felt comfortable on every putt and thought I was going to make 'em, and that was really nice. 

Q.   Is that a by‑product of the new surfaces? 
KEVIN KISNER:   They're absolutely pure.   The only thing, it has little subtleties that are difficult to read, but inside 5 feet if you stay on your line, they're going to go in, especially with so little traffic on the greens. 

Q.   What's the mind‑set for you going into the weekend and having those guys within reach? 
KEVIN KISNER:   To win!   That's what we all play for; that's the reason I'm here.   If I keep doing the things I'm doing and keep the ball in the fairway, have a chance to attack the pins, I'll have a good shot. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Kevin.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT