MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2019
Kevin Kisner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You had to scramble a little bit there, especially on 17. How do you feel that you came out of all that?
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, that's kind of what kept the round intact. I got it up‑and‑down I think, 15, 16, 17 and 18. That's a good way to finish. And I made a lot of those key, 5‑ and 6‑footers for par to keep the round intact. And I was just telling him, the greens are so much slower I can be more aggressive on the lines and go ahead and hit them, which is not typical for around here. 

Q. I was going to ask you about 15 and 16. Do you feel kind of fortunate it hung there on‑‑
KEVIN KISNER: Well, for sure, well 16 it always hangs there. But 15, I guess downwind helps. But I thought I had plenty of club and it's just one of deals, you know, you got to play boldly to win around here and you got to have some things go your way and that was one of them. 

Q. On 13, the third shot, the putt from over there in a tricky spot. What was the thought process behind choosing to putt that instead of chip it?
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, I didn't have a very good lie, so it was kind of sandy and wet and I just felt like if I didn't catch it perfect it would be tough to judge the spin and how far I hit it. 
So I knew I could putt it within 10 feet, and it just came out perfect, it caught the ramp, got airborne, I was like, man, that's, you know, it's one of those things that works out.

Q. 14, the approach, that, I mean it carried just as much as it needed to. What did you have there and what did you hit?
KEVIN KISNER: I had 175 yards, I tried to hit a hold 6‑iron and I caught it about a groove low thin. My caddie was hollering at me, he told me to hit it behind the hole and of course you got to hit it behind the hole, if it‑‑ he makes it sound like Nintendo Golf, sometimes. 

Q. I know it's Match Play but do you draw confidence from how you did in Austin?
KEVIN KISNER: Oh, for sure. Any time you win you're always gaining confidence. I played well. Good play breeds good play and it always seems to happen in those cycles where when you play well you keep playing well, when you're playing poorly, it's hard to get out of it.

Q. Are you somebody that peeks at the scoreboard?
KEVIN KISNER: All the time. Heck, yeah. You can't play without ‑‑ how could you play a basketball game without knowing what the score was? So I'm looking all the time.
And I think I was leading at one point, so you can put that in my book that I had the lead at the Masters at one time.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT