WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 31, 2019
Kevin Kisner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. We talked yesterday and you said that you were going to approach this final day with a different perspective.  What is that difference?
KEVIN KISNER: Probably a little less attention to how big a deal it is.  I'm just going to go play my game and see how well I can do.  I didn't play great on the back nine and neither did he, and I was fortunate to come out on top.  But I need to clean that up for the finals to win the trophy.
Q. How do you feel?  Tough match?
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, it was a tough match.  He's always been playing well the last year or so.  We didn't play well on the back nine.  It was more electric on the front, and fortunate enough -- he almost gave me one there on 18.  I need to take advantage of that this afternoon.
Q. Big change in conditions out there.  What was that like to play in?
KEVIN KISNER: It's just so cold, man.  It's tough to figure how far the ball is going with the swirling winds and the temperature.  Hopefully it warms up this afternoon, and we can get it out there a little bit.
Q. Obviously you made it this far last year, what can you learn from that experience to use this afternoon?
KEVIN KISNER: I can't finish worse than second.
Q. I guess it was never supposed to be easy.  It was not easy out there with swirling winds, cool temperatures.  I thought it was a grinder kind of day, and you really ground out 18 holes to get into the final.  Tell me about it.
KEVIN KISNER: It was difficult conditions.  The front nine I was freezing, and we actually made more birdies on the front nine than we did the back.  It's an interesting game and match play brings out interesting things.  I never dreamed he would three-putt the last hole to let me win the match.
Hats off to him.  He's a great player.  He's been playing great all year.
Q. I thought you needed just that one shot coming down the stretch, but sometimes that one shot is so difficult to pull off, isn't it?
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, I thought if I made that putt on 15 that it was going to be over.  And I hit a great putt and didn't go in.  And I just misjudged the wind on 16 and 17 and left myself out of position a little bit, and he made two great birdies.
Just glad I got through it, and go rest up and get ready.
Q. Absolutely.  One more match remaining.  Second straight year in the finals.  Have you got enough juice in the tank this year?
KEVIN KISNER: I hope so, man.
Q. Is there just something about this course that brings out the best in you, Kevin?
KEVIN KISNER: I don't know.  I like the format, I like the golf course, I'm driving it well.  That's been the key, keeping the ball in the fairways.  It's not overly long, so I can reach all the par 5s and that's helpful for my game.
Q. 15, you could tell how frustrated you were, because you hit such a great putt.
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, I thought I made that one the whole way down there.  It's one of those that you have to keep watching, keep watching.  I thought it was going to hang in there but it didn't.
Fortunate enough to get through.  I knew he was going to make a run after that because he's a competitor.  He's one of the best players in the world.
Q. This time last year it was hot and you lost pretty badly to Bubba.  Do you feel you've got more energy?
KEVIN KISNER: I don't think any of us are going to have a ton of energy in the finals after all the golf we played and this being four weeks in a row.  I'm going to do a little different prep to get ready for it and hopefully come out swinging some birdies.
I do my PT inside and then hopefully have the body ready to roll.
Q. When is the last time you played in conditions this cold?
KEVIN KISNER: Pebble Beach on Sunday was about as cold as I've ever been when it was hailing on us, but I wasn't trying to win the golf tournament, either.  I was hanging out in 30th place.  It's extremely difficult.  It's starting to warm up now, so hopefully this afternoon we're in for good weather.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT