WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 30, 2019
Kevin Kisner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Kevin Kisner, we've said that a lot in Austin - last year, lasted all the way to the final.  Now you're in the semifinal.  That was a heck of a match.  Some really high-level golf.  How were you able to get through it?
KEVIN KISNER: It was brutal conditions.  He came out firing.  He made a bunch of birdies and really putted well.  I just kept plugging along, made some pars there when I needed to.  Short game kind of bailed me out coming in.  Hit a beauty there on 17.  This wind is so tricky, I thought he hit a great shot, too, but just gusted and hit his short.
Happy with the win.  Looking forward to tomorrow.
Q. Last year with Bubba Watson you told me afterwards it was a learning experience for you after what you went through there, especially the first part of that match, losing five holes in a row to Bubba, who eventually went on to win.  How much of that experience from last year will you take into tomorrow?
KEVIN KISNER: I'll tell you, I learned a lot about the prep.  And I'll approach how I get ready for the round a little differently and take it a little more seriously.  And I'll be excited if I can get through and play for the title.
Q. I really admire the way you play golf.  Those pars you made at 8, at 15, the bunker shot at 16.  Just really, really admire the patience and discipline you played the game with.
KEVIN KISNER: I appreciate it.  I felt like the short game bailed me out today.  He was holing a lot of birdies there early and I knew with the conditions I was going to have to keep plugging.  And anything could happen.  Turned it around there with straight winning holes to take that match.
Q. You won 15, 16 and 17.  Tell me about the pitching wedge into 17, good number, good execution, combination?
KEVIN KISNER: It was funny, right before we were about to go I said, "Are you going to let me smash a pitching wedge here?"  And he said, "Yeah, I think it's perfect."  And it's one of those you knew you could hit as hard as you wanted to and I could ride my draw with the wind and it set up perfect.  And fortunately made it close.
Q. By "him" you mean Duane Bock, your caddie.  Semifinals against Francesco Molinari.  Your thoughts on the Sunday semi?
KEVIN KISNER: He's been playing well.  We're good buddies, so we'll have a good time.  I know I'm going to have to bring my "A" game to compete with him.
Q. Anything you learned from last year when you made it all the way to finals when you played two matches on Sunday that you would apply here?
KEVIN KISNER: It's a long week, so my prep will be a little different.  I'll approach getting ready for the second round, if I have a chance to win, a little differently.  And look forward to the opportunity.
Q. That one on 13 kind of get you going?
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, it was probably looking like going 2-down there, so needed that one.  It was kind of a hit and hope more than anything.  I knew the line, but with the wind pumping down there it was a difficult putt.  Glad that one went in, kind of kept me in it.
Q. He made some mistakes toward the end on 15, 16 and 17, and you were able to capitalize on it.
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, he didn't make many mistakes today.  He played well.  I was just fortunate that -- I looked oppositional 15 and then ended up winning the hole, and that's what the great thing about match play is.
Q. How did the drastic change in weather affect your play?
KEVIN KISNER: The wind is just coming from a totally different direction, and it just makes everything so much more difficult.  With how firm everything is, it's hard to know the lines off the tee and makes it more difficult to get a ball in the fairway.
Q. That shot in 17 was what you needed?
KEVIN KISNER: That was pitching wedge, 147 yards.  I knew I could just hit it as hard as I wanted to, and let the wind bring it over there to the left and use that slope.  No clue it was that close, though, from the tee.
Q. What do you think about the golf course suits you and what do you like about it?
KEVIN KISNER: I think you can use the fairways for helping distance, and I'm not the longest hitter.  And all the par 5s are pretty much reachable.  If that's the case and I can get to them and so can everybody else, then I feel comfortable.
Q. You mentioned that you might change your approach heading into tomorrow.  What would you like to change?
KEVIN KISNER: Well, just if I win the first match, I'll prepare for the second match.  I'll do it a little differently.  Last year I felt like I went to extra holes and had to be rushed straight to the tee, and didn't get much time to reset.  And I did that today and it worked way better.
Q. What did you do between matches today?
KEVIN KISNER: Took a shower, ate lunch and sat on the couch for a little bit and got some treatment on my body and that was a big help.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT