WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 30, 2019
Kevin Kisner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You birdied or won four of the first five holes.  What was the key to your match today?
KEVIN KISNER: Well, I made birdies to win a couple and then he made bogeys and I made par.  So it's nice to finish early on a big day like this, and go rest a little bit for the afternoon.
Q. Any advantage making quick work and you can relax a bit before the afternoon?
KEVIN KISNER: These guys are so good, I don't know if you ever get an advantage.  I'm still going to have to go play well.  The wind is going to blow hard this afternoon and it's going to be difficult.  It's going to take all I've got in me.
Q. Good start.
KEVIN KISNER: Thank you.
Q. How important was that super fast start?
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, it's always nice to get a fast start in match play.  Trying to get the holes numbered out, so you can get up enough and get out of here.
It was a good day and I have time to go rest a little bit.
Q. No stranger to the late parts of this tournament, getting through to the final last year.  What is it you particularly enjoy about this match play format?
KEVIN KISNER: I like the golf course.  There's a lot of strategy.  It's a great match play golf course.  They've set it up well to make birdies.  I think this afternoon we're going to be fighting a little more.  It's going to be a little windier, so I have to prepare for that.
Q. You got off to such a quick start in this match.  I imagine that was the key to your win?
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, for sure.  He made a couple of bogeys early, and I was fortunate enough to make par and threw in a few birdies.  Played solid all day, probably the most solid I've played all week.
Q. Not only did you win, you did so expeditiously.  You closed out the match on the 13th.  How important is that to conserve a little energy?
KEVIN KISNER: It's huge.  Last year I ran out of gas late in the week.  It's a long week and this is my fourth in a row.  Anytime I can conserve energy, it's big.
Q. I imagine this golf course somehow fits your eye.  You feel very comfortable here, don't you?
KEVIN KISNER: I do, yeah.  I like hitting the balls in the fairways.  I can get it out there far enough.  I drive it pretty well here, so if I can start holing the putts, I think it will be a good week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT