WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 29, 2019
Kevin Kisner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How tough was it to get through that playoff with Ian?
KEVIN KISNER: You know Ian is a great player.  You have to play your best to beat him.  And fortunate enough to make the putt there.  I made it on the last hole, too.  So you know it's going to come down to you having to do something, he's not going to give it to you.  So I was fortunate enough to do it.
Q. You guys have basically the same mentality on the golf course, especially playing this format.  You both ended a round the same time.  There was going to be about a 20-minute delay before you went out and started this playoff.  But both of you went out and said, "Come on, let's get this started."  What was the thinking there?
KEVIN KISNER: We don't want to cool off any.  They wanted us to wait 20, 25 minutes, and that's long enough for me to go hit balls.  We were ready to roll.  I made a joke we could both tee off anyway, they could give us penalties for laying the same thing, anyway.  It's match play.
Q. Any sense of revenge there in that playoff?
KEVIN KISNER: Not really.  I played great against him in the first round, he just played better.  I knew the playoff was going to be tough.  He's playing well.  And I was fortunate enough to get a good look there on the last and make it.
Q. Speaking of the playoff, what was the mentality of going out immediately?  The referee said there would be 20 minutes, he'd just come off the golf course, his tail is up, he's won in the final hole, potentially the momentum is with him but you just decided to go.
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, I didn't want to sit around then you feel like you need to warm up again.  I was ready to roll, too, and we both agreed and they let us go.
Q. You know what it's like getting right to the end this week.  It's a long, arduous week.  At what point physically does it become pretty demanding?
KEVIN KISNER: Starts right now.  I'm already a little worn out, it's four weeks in a row.  I'm going to get a lot of rest, a big meal tonight and come out ready to go tomorrow.
Q. A long day of golf for you.  It was interesting after you beat Keith at 17, you kind of waited around.  Okay, you're going to a playoff, what's going through your mind there?
KEVIN KISNER: It's the same mentality that you've kind of been having all day.  I had a chance to win with Keith coming down the stretch.  And you've got to go to the next hole with a new competitor.  But you've got to go to the next hole and new competitor, but still got to have that mentality, you've got to win a hole.
Played those three holes nicely and gave myself looks, and that's all you can ask for in this format.
Q. People didn't see it, but you guys were allowed to take about a half hour.  The referees said you guys take a break.  And you and Ian both said, let's just go right to it.
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, I don't think either one of us wanted to sit around.  We've been out here, we're warm, and ready to go, let's get it on.
Q. You're such a good match play player, you never miss a fairway.  That's got to be a huge advantage?
KEVIN KISNER: I don't know that I always feel that way standing over it.  Yeah, I've been driving it well.  I felt horrible over the putter are all week and lucky enough to get through, and hopefully it starts catching on fire coming this weekend.
Q. You're on the weekend again, you know about that from last year.
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, it's a long week, you've got to come out firing and you're going to play guys that are playing well, so you've got to be on top of your game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT