ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 9, 2019
Kevin Kisner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Quality round of golf out there.  It wasn't easy, was it?
KEVIN KISNER: I think it's brutal, the golf course is playing brutal and just nowhere to get it close to the pin.  Greens are firm, hitting a lot of long irons, and it's a true test.
Q. Was it the wind and the hole locations that made it so tough, combined with the firm greens?
KEVIN KISNER: The firm greens were the most difficult and where they're putting the pins it's just impossible to aim at them, knowing there's disaster waiting.
Q. You did find a way to make three in a row, you had some good lines there on putts, you had the speed down, especially on 13.
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, that was probably the best putt of the day was on 13.  Obviously you got to take care of the par-5s here, we don't get to play four par-5s much anymore, so it's nice to take care of those and just try to grind the rest of the way.
Q. You're a couple back headed into tomorrow, what do you think it's going to take to win the red sweater?
KEVIN KISNER: I think I got to get to 12, so that's the game plan and battled back today to have a chance.
Q. Just assess your day for us, if you would, please.
KEVIN KISNER: I got off to a tough start.  To be at 7-under with only a 3-under for the tournament after three holes, it was a good way to battle back and it's tough.  It's going to take a lot of quality golf shots and hole some key putts to have a chance tomorrow and we'll see what the day holds.
Q. What do you remember about, I guess 2015 when you got in the field at the 11th hour here and that?
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, I remember no sleeping and teeing off on the first hole and we didn't know what to hit.  And I had to hit like 5- or 6-iron into that green and I was thinking, what am I doing back here?  And it's been a long time since then, but it kind of probably helped jump start my career and had a great year that year and been back every year since.
Q. Does it feel like you cannot believe how much has happened since then and the way that things have progressed?
KEVIN KISNER: Not only in golf but in life.  It comes at you fast.  So, a long time ago standing on that 10th tee at 7 o'clock that Thursday morning after driving all night to get here.  So it comes at you fast and a lot of good things have happened.
Q. You said the other day that it was a pretty tough golf course for you, but you still have success here.
KEVIN KISNER: Well I like the greens, obviously it's a lot like what I grew up on at Palmetto.  Firm and fast has kind of always been my cake around the PGA TOUR.  When you got to plot your way around and grind, I seem to be near the top.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT