WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 28, 2019
Kevin Kisner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tell me about the 18th.  
KEVIN KISNER: It wasn't a very pretty day for either of us.  It was tough conditions, but battled around, and hung in there and finally made a putt on the last hole.   
 Q.  Good putter is a match for anyone.  I like your chances here coming into Round 3.  
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, I don't even what happened at another match but I know I've got to win to have a chance.  So go out and take care of business tomorrow and see what happens.   
 Q.  How important is it for you guys here on the PGA Tour to connect with all of these guys outside the ropes?  
KEVIN KISNER: You know, it's special for us with the kids.  I was a kid one time and was in awe of the guys that were on the PGA Tour.  So it's special to have them out here, and hopefully it spurs them on to be great and come out and play against us.   
 Q.  One of your great attributes out here is that you're tough.  How much does match play bring out that kind of toughness?  
KEVIN KISNER: Well, conditions were tough and I hung tough today.  I was 3-down early and came back and battled and gave myself a lot of chances.  And neither one of us played our best, but I was able to finish it off with a nice birdie.   
 Q.  Assess your match today.  
KEVIN KISNER: It was not our best golf.  Neither one of us played great.  We did make some birdies and a lot of bogeys and others.  It was a pretty interesting day.  A lot of weird stuff happened but that's what happened in match play, and I was fortunate enough to get a victory.   
 Q.  You obviously played here last year, you played this course well in these type of conditions.  What was so tricky about the wind out there today?  
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, it was very gusty, you have no idea how hard it was going to blow when you were standing over it and it seemed to swirl in those trees, feeling it off the right and then you're standing over it and it feels off to the left.  It plays mind games on you, but you've got to commit and hit shots.   
 Q.  With this win you're still obviously very much mathematically into it.  What's the mindset going into that match tomorrow knowing that you still have a very good chance to go on?  
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, it's win or go home for me.  I've got to go out and play better than I did today and get the job done, and then hopefully good things happen to me.  So I'm not in control of my own destiny, but I can control my match.   
 Q.  What do you think you need to sharpen up for the match tomorrow?  
KEVIN KISNER: Just silly mistakes, you know.  You end up doing things you would never do in stroke play in match play.  And I let that happen today and I'll clean that up for tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT