PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2018
Kevin Kisner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
KEVIN KISNER: I did until it went six feet by and then I was a little worried about the next one.   
 Q.  Were you aware of where you were or did you have no idea?  
KEVIN KISNER: I'm pretty aware with it.  I knew I was playing well and I had made a few birdies, but no, I hit it great on that, well, our second nine and just didn't hole any putts.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
KEVIN KISNER: Try to keep it out of the water.   
 Q.  Anything beyond that?  
KEVIN KISNER: No.  It's golf, man, that's all I've ever done.  I won everywhere I ever been, if I shoot the lowest score, I win.   
 Q.  What would it mean to your career to win?  
KEVIN KISNER: Well that's what we work for is to win major championships.  I've made a bunch of cuts and competed in majors, I just haven't, until recently, haven't competed, had a chance to win and that's been our goal going forward and I like my position going to the weekend.   
 Q.  It's not just your Bar Stool buddy here today, you obviously did something special, talk about that.  
KEVIN KISNER: Why do these other people come?   
 Q.  A little different crowd today.  
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, they are.  What was the question?   
 Q.  Obviously you did something special today.  Talk about it.  
KEVIN KISNER: Well I got off to that start, 10's probably one of the hardest holes for me being with this length and having a 5-iron in there in the morning.  Probably turned it over more than I wanted to, but it ended up coming down right at it and having three feet for birdie on that start.  Then hitting one of the best tee balls I hit, right at the flag on 11 was, couldn't ask for a better way to start it.  Kept throwing darts on the back nine and holing the 8, 10-footers I need to, to make the birdies.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, a hundred percent.  I think every time that you see guys playing well it kind of drags other guys in the group along.  And Sergio wasn't having the best day, but I bet we made him hang in there just because of how well we were going.  Gary and I are good buddies, had a great time out there playing and if I could only hit it as far as he could it would be a different game.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, just kind of the same tendencies that I always fight whenever I'm uncomfortable or don't feel good, I get narrow at the top and get quicker.  So we're just always working on keeping my width, if that makes sense.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
KEVIN KISNER: I don't think I ever played with Gary on the Hooter's Tour.  He's probably older than me.  He looks older than me anyway.  Oh, God, he probably already made it by then, if he didn't, he sucks, because he hit it 350 and didn't make it?   
(Laughter.)   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
KEVIN KISNER: Do I see my own coach here?   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
KEVIN KISNER: Mental coach.  Yeah, I still am.  Yeah.  A hundred percent.  Shoot the lowest score.   
 Q.  If you could hit it as far as Gary can you imagine, you obviously have your strengths --  
KEVIN KISNER: I probably couldn't putt good then.  But he's putting good this week, so that's a little tough edge there.   
 Q.  What is it about it here when you get some big hitters and not big hitters that let them play so well here?  
KEVIN KISNER: Greens are receptive, so my 4-iron stops as quick as his 7-iron.  If they were firm, I don't think I would have a chance with the way the greens are situated and the places they're putting the flags.  But being receptive that's my only hope.   
 Q.  How have the crowds been out here?  
KEVIN KISNER: Packed.  Yeah, I told my caddie, I thought it was more than last year, which is last year was packed for Charlotte.  Got to listen to all of the KU/Missouri banter all day with Gary, I didn't know that was such a rivalry.  So they're fighting across fairways at each other.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
KEVIN KISNER: I don't know, y'all ask me that question every time.  All I know is if I hit it in the fairway and hit it on the green and make the putt I'm probably going to have a good shot at it.  That's all I'm going to keep trying to do.  I'm not going to get too caught up in it.  I think you guys get more caught up in it than we do.  You play the best, you win.  That's about it.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, for sure, he got my kids sick.  His kid got my kid sick.  We have been arguing about that all week.  No, it was funny, both our kids were sick on Monday and we were blaming each other for it.  So pretty interesting.   
 Q.  What were you BSing about on the course?  
KEVIN KISNER: Pretty much making fun of you guys and everybody that's out there and all that.   
 Q.  Do you think your experience at Rough N Rowdy has toughed you up for the Majors?  
KEVIN KISNER: Yes, for sure.  Watching my boy Beau Hill win the battle was going to get me ready.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
KEVIN KISNER: I just love how calm he is out there, he he's doesn't let anything get him too rattled.  He's absolutely striping it and rolling the rock, so if he's going to keep that up we're going to have a pretty good battle if I can too.   
 Q.  Does this course fit you because can be aggressive on it?  
KEVIN KISNER: Only chance I got is I can still hit it at the flag instead of laying out to 40 feet trying to make par.  I still feel like I can still make birdies with a 4- or 5-iron in my hand compared to other Majors.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT