ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 28, 2018
Scott Brown
Kevin Kisner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Ten birdies; couple of bogeys.  Pretty solid, Scott, wouldn't you say?
SCOTT BROWN: Yeah, I didn't have my best today.  Kevin played great again.  So hope I can iron a few things out here on the range in just a few minutes and give him some more help tomorrow.
Q. When the team needed you though you came up with a birdie at 18.  That was big.
SCOTT BROWN: Yeah, it was nice to get that one in there.  It was a tough bunker shot, a lot tougher than what we thought it was in that spot kind of where we were aiming.
Kevin kind of got a bad break off the tee there, so went a little more conservative the second shot, but was able to hit it in there close.
Q. Kev, you had seven birdies.  The putter was really good.  You get that look in your faces where you pick out a line, you hit it, and you know it's going in.
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, the greens are rolling nice, and I felt pretty good with the putter all week.  I made a lot of long putts, which is fun and probably why we're in the lead.  It's normally what happens when you get a putter rolling.
So it's been fun.  Hopefully I can knock a few in for him tomorrow.
Q. Do you change anything tomorrow in the alternate shot from two days ago, or is it exactly the same?
KEVIN KISNER: We been doing this for 20 years.  We know each other pretty well.  I think that's why we gel so well together.  We know each other well, and he knows I'm not going to be upset if he's playing bad, or if I hit a bad shot he's not going to be upset at me.  What did they tell us, your bad shots are the other person's problem, so have fun.
Q. So Scott, that's the strategy?  You guys are just playing like you had as kids for a long time?
SCOTT BROWN: Yeah.  I mean, obviously we're a little more aggressive in this format, hence some of the shots we took on today.
Alternate shot, I mean, you're just trying to hit a bunch of greens and give the guy looks.  You're trying to make it really easy and not stressful or anything.
We did that last year here in the third round and we played great.  I think we shot 5-under alternate shot.  Hopefully we can do something very similar tomorrow.
Q. You're outright leaders in the clubhouse at 20-under; six birdies out there.  What was the key to the consistency to help you guys get that lead back?
SCOTT BROWN: It was a dogfight for us today.  I felt like Kevin played great.  I kind of left him high and dry a couple times.  (Music interference) Pretty happy where we are.
Q. Kevin, we heard a ton of communication between the two of you, more so than probably most teams out there.  How did that impact your scoring?
KEVIN KISNER: Well, I think it's just from how much we play together.  We play at home all the time and practice a lot together.  We play a lot of practice rounds together.  We know each other's games so well.  He knows what I'm thinking and I know what he's thinking.
Pretty cool format.
Q. The format does switch to alternate shot tomorrow.  You guys know what it's like to play under pressure in this format last year with that epic chip to force the playoff.  How do you utilize that experience to your advantage tomorrow?
SCOTT BROWN: I think we just kind of go out and kind of do what we did in the second round, alternate shot.  Just hit a bunch of greens and just try to make it easy.
He's putting great, so hopefully I can get him up there with some of my iron shots.  (Music interference. )
Q. Obviously a good round.  Kind of a logjam at the top, but your performance yesterday really kind of sets you guys apart.
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, we had a chance to probably run away a little bit and we just couldn't ever get two balls in good position on the back nine.
Still leading the golf tournament.  Feel good.  In the right position, where we need to go.  It's going to be a dogfight tomorrow.  Everybody is bunched up and the format is so difficult, but we're right where we need to be.
Q. How much is there a mental adjustment to go from format today to tomorrow?  Is there anything different that you do to prepare for that?
KEVIN KISNER: I don't think so.  Just probably a little more -- less aggressive I would say than you would be in best ball.  You got two guys that can fire down on it.
Other than that, no.  Just try to do the same thing you would do if you were out here playing your own ball.
Q. You mentioned this a little bit, but your familiarity with each other on the golf course, how much has that helped?  Really kind of sets you guys apart from other groups.
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, I think we just kind of see the same lines and stuff off tees and shots into the greens.  When he's reading putts we kind of -- we just always play with each other so much, so we kind of see -- we see the same lines on putts.  We kind of read them the same.
We talk to each other out there about it.
Q. Scott?
SCOTT BROWN: Yeah.  We're so familiar with each other's games.  We grew up playing golf together and against each other and we played a lot of team events together.  I think that relationship is going to be really helpful coming down the stretch tomorrow.
I know he's trying as hard as he can and I'm trying as hard as I can.  I hope we have a shot at it at the very end.
Q. Hopefully it may not come down to a 94-footer.
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah.  I don't want him to make me have to chip off this grainy ass grass tomorrow at all.  I hope he hits every green.
Q. Back to back years you all played very well here.  Is there something about this course that suits you well?
SCOTT BROWN: I would say absolutely not.  I don't know what (indiscernible) to be honest with you, except for the fact that we just -- you know, I mean, it favors length a lot, which we don't really hit it crazy far.
Kevin has putted great here the last couple years.  He's played awesome, and I've kicked in a few to help him when he's out of it.
Other than just brother-in-lawing it really well, that's pretty much it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT