ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 26, 2018
Kevin Kisner
Scott Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Did it feel like you guys kind of picked up where you left off last year?
KEVIN KISNER: We got off to a good start and made a lot of birdies.
We did great together.  You know, any time I didn't make a birdie he threw one in there and vice versa, so it was a fun round.
Q. What did you guys learn last year with the success that you had that may help you here?
SCOTT BROWN: We play together a lot when we're at home, so we kind of just do the same thing here.  It's really no different for us.  But, you know, I think we learned, if anything, to keep the pedal down and keep pushing.  One shot can make a difference.
Q. What do you guys remember most about last year?
KEVIN KISNER: Well for me it was the chip in.  That was a lot of fun, doing that in the dark with a lot of people out there and knowing it had to go in.
Obviously we didn't finish it off the way we wanted to, so we're coming back for a little revenge this week.
Q. 18 was a little different for you guys today with the alligators out there.  Did they bother you at all?
KEVIN KISNER: He had been there all day; wasn't moving all day.
Q. There was one that walked all the way across like almost to the cart path.  Like across the fairway.  They brought a cart out and shooed him away.
KEVIN KISNER: I was glad Browny had a close putt for birdie, because I didn't want to have to finish that.  I was just getting in there and hitting quickly.
Q. With the format changing tomorrow, what have you guys talked strategy-wise?
SCOTT BROWN: Do the same thing we did as last year.  We obviously had a game plan coming into here, who was teeing off where and whatnot.
But, you know, it's a different format.  A little more conservative golf and take your chances when you get them.
Q. Remind us who is doing even and who is doing odds and why?
SCOTT BROWN: No reason why.  I think we just stood up -- I'm doing odd, but no other reason that we just picked.
KEVIN KISNER: He's the par-3 assassin, so he gets three Par-3s and I get to putt them.  He's going to hit it close and I'm going to make them all for him.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT