SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 12, 2018
Kevin Kisner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Kevin, yesterday you joked there wasn't a whole lot to be excited about, walking around watching that golf.  Little better today.
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, we got some putts rolling in today.  We had perfect conditions for the first 10 or 12 holes with no wind.  That's rare around here.  So you had to be aggressive and take advantage of it.
Q. Is it simply just a matter of making putts, or was it getting the ugly 16 off your back?  That was some bad juju yesterday.  You had to get the demons out.
KEVIN KISNER: I'm 2 over on 17.  I blame both bogeys on Justin still.  So tomorrow, I told him, if I don't make birdie, I'm going to have to come after him.
Q. Anything that you take from today a little better than yesterday to carry into the weekend?
KEVIN KISNER: Just still working on the things I need to do.  I love the golf course.  So keep getting it rolling.  I'm probably going to have to shoot another couple sixes or so to have a chance.  So I'm looking forward to that.
Q. Really productive day for Kevin Kisner.  As you look back on this round, how would you describe it?
KEVIN KISNER: I got it going a little bit finally, and it felt good.  4 under there after six or seven holes.  We had really good conditions early, so that's what -- we had to be aggressive and start making some birdies to have a chance.
Q. As you started the year at Kapalua, I know you wanted to get some momentum.  Are you starting to see the fruits of your labor?
KEVIN KISNER: I am.  I was working hard on my game.  Obviously, we're kind of playing around the majors and getting ready for Augusta, but these are all good tests.  You've got to start seeing the work that you're doing produce on the golf course, and that's where I'm at in the transfer point of it.
Q. Finally, I promise this is the last question about that jersey, but it was nice to see you and Justin walk arm in arm coming up the 17th.  What's been the response from last night and this morning after what happened yesterday?
KEVIN KISNER: I think it's been really positive for raffling it off, and he's going to let me benefit my foundation.  We're excited about that.  We're going to help a bunch of kids, all in good fun and good faith.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT