PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2017
Kevin Kisner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 18, you were going for the flag?
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, I had a mud ball, mud on the right but I didn't know how much room to give it.  It was probably my best swing of the day, just pure and I looked up and it just hooked early.  Just came down right on the water.
Q. The shots on 17, 18, you knew where you stood and what you had to do?
KEVIN KISNER: I thought he was at 9 the whole time.  What did he finish at, 8?  I thought he was at 9 the whole time.  Knew I needed to make birdies.  Just poor swing on 16.
Proud of the way I hit the two shots on 18.  I know I made double, but that was a solid shot.
Q. Just talk about, you had an up-and-down day.
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, I didn't make the putts that I have been making the first two days over the weekend.  A lot of misses inside of ten feet, and at some point, length is going to catch up with me.  And guys hitting it 30 feet by me have an advantage if I'm not hitting putts inside ten feet.
Q. How were you feeling?
KEVIN KISNER: I was feeling good.  I really liked the way I started out, hitting the ball solid and gave myself a lot of looks.  Just not making the putts that I need to make to win major championships.
Q. What can you take from this round as far as understanding what it feels like to be in the hunt of a major championship?
KEVIN KISNER: I'm excited to get back.  I'm looking forward to the opportunity.  I felt great all day.  I felt good.  It's probably more pressure than a regular TOUR event but it's still a lot of fun.  That last finish is just brutal.  I hit driver, 5-iron, 5-iron; driver, 5-iron, and we don't do that much on TOUR.
Q. How many friends and family did you have?
KEVIN KISNER: I had a ton.  A lot of people came out today.  My whole family is from here, so they were all out here.  I haven't seen them all week because there's been so many people, but I'm sure I'll see them at home.
Q. Bittersweet, winning with Justin, just talk about him.
KEVIN KISNER: We've been friends for a long time.  He's a good guy and a good guy to know out here on TOUR and he's helped me along in my career.  I'm excited to go to battle with again.
Q. (Inaudible)?
KEVIN KISNER: I don't believe in all that.  You play good, you win, bottom line.
Q. Can you take anything specific that you can apply in the future?
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, I need to play better.  I probably missed 3-putts inside eight feet on the back nine and you just can't do that.
Q. You're very resilient, where does that come from?
KEVIN KISNER: Probably my upbringing.  I have strong parents.  They taught me about being a good person and believing in yourself.  And to be the best you've got to work hard and that's what I've done in my career.
Q. After 13, it looked like you got more aggressive coming in.
KEVIN KISNER: That's kind of when I started to look.  Mud ball on 12, which was the perfect number for me, and I hit a 30-yard hook out of the middle of the fairway.  It's unfortunate, those two situations, but you know, I'll be better next time I get in that position.
Q. A minute ago, you said it's still fun; there is an element that's still fun?
KEVIN KISNER: It's fun trying to compete.  Fun trying to see what you can do.  There's only a certain number of people in the world that get that opportunity, and that's why we're out here.
Q. If you had a shot to take back today, which one would it be?
KEVIN KISNER: Oh, man.  No. 7 is going to haunt me, hitting in the water short there.  I actually went back for one more club and got too greedy with it.  That should be -- that's one of the holes I have to make 4 on to compete, and walk away with 6 was painful.
Q. 4-iron or 3-iron?
KEVIN KISNER: 4-iron or 3-iron, yeah.
Q. You said you were happy where you started today -- the finish from yesterday --
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, what did I play, the last three 6-over in the last two days?  That's not going to be fun to look at.  I thought I had to get to 10 starting the day to win and that was about right.  I had every opportunity.  I just didn't finish it off.
Q. 16, was that the right club?
KEVIN KISNER: I just hit it fat, yeah.
Q. I know you didn't play with him but what do you think of Justin --
KEVIN KISNER: He's a stud.  He's been in the winner's circle a few times.  He's grown up on this TOUR.  He's ten years younger man me.  I don't have a ton in common with him.  I love playing with him and competing with him and I look forward to playing with him in The Presidents Cup.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT