ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 30, 2017
Kevin Kisner
Scott Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. That was some show you put on there, coming out of the gate so hot, you have the delay, then you come back there, and the chip-in on 18, how could you see what you wanted to do?
KEVIN KISNER: I just didn't want to leave it short.  He hit a great shot up there to two or three feet, so I figured we had birdie, and I just wanted to hit it hard enough and give it a chance.
Q. Scott, you guys play so much golf together in Aiken.  You guys were so comfortable out there, you looked like you knew you were going to go out and play well.
SCOTT BROWN: Yeah, we did.  We had good vibes.  We've been playing well all week.  You know, the first day just couldn't get any putts to go in, kind of like the back nine, we hit a bunch of good shots and just could not get putts to fall, lipped out a few times.  But we felt really good going into today.
Q. After that hot start, 10-under through 11 holes, did you feel like maybe you lost a little energy out there?
KEVIN KISNER: I wouldn't say that.  I just think -- he hit a great putt on 14 I thought was going in, and I hit a good one the hole before I thought was going in, and that's just kind of how it goes.  The greens slowed down so much after that rain, it was hard to almost get the ball to the hole, and I felt like I was almost having to hit them, and I know he was, too.  We kept talking about, just hit it hard enough to get it there.
Q. We are off to a playoff thanks to an eagle shot, 94 feet away.  Take us through the emotional roller coaster of 18.
KEVIN KISNER: Well, we knew we had to have it.  Scott hit a great shot up there to probably two or three feet, and I knew they were going to make birdie.  All I was trying to do was make sure I didn't leave it short, and I couldn't see much.  I knew it was breaking a little right, and when it hit the flag, I said, don't you come out of there.
Q. Well, that ball listened well.  Scott, an amazing start to get the momentum that you needed on 18, eight consecutive birdies, six before the delay.  What was the key to the quick start?
SCOTT BROWN: You know, I birdied the first hole coming out of the gate, and then he got hot the middle stretch there on the front nine, and then I birdied 8.  When you look back, we birdied 10 and 11 after that.  We played good all week, really.  We've been hitting it good.  We didn't capitalize on all our opportunities, and that's kind of what carried over into today.
Q. During the delay what was the message between the two of you to keep the momentum when you went back out on the course?
KEVIN KISNER: I don't even think I saw that much.  I was just waiting on the word and trying to figure out what we were going to do if we got out of here tonight or not.  We didn't do much strategizing.  We know each other so well that we knew what the game plan was, go make a ton of birdies, and every time we made one, I kept saying, let's birdie the next one, buddy.
Q. You guys have been playing together since you were 10.  We go to a playoff tomorrow morning at 8:00 a.m.  What is the key to winning this thing?
SCOTT BROWN: I think we've got to come out here and do the same thing we did today.  We've got to be aggressive because it's going to take a birdie, obviously, or an eagle to win it.  So we've got to stay aggressive.
Q. That shot was amazing; take us through it and your emotions.
KEVIN KISNER: I knew I was going to make it the whole time.  No, I'm just kidding.  I just told myself, get it there.  He hit a great shot.  I thought I had a chance, and we had birdie, we knew they were going to make birdie.  It's just one of those shots that you dream about.
Q. What were you thinking?
SCOTT BROWN: Well, I walked by him and told him just knock it right in.  He's been doing it all day.  He already chipped in twice today, so I told him one more time wouldn't hurt.  And then he did it.
Q. How did that six-hour delay not kill y'all's momentum?
SCOTT BROWN: You know, it hurt us more on the greens than anything because the greens slowed down quite a bit.  We struggled with speed the rest of the day.  But you know, that being said, we played a great round of golf today.  Hot start was great, and then obviously to finish it off the way we did is a bonus.
Q. It looked like you were determined that you would at least get it to the hole.  You aren't going to leave it short.
KEVIN KISNER: I'd rather hit it in that water than leave it short.  I wasn't going to leave it short.  I knew I hit it a little too hard when I touched it, but I loved the line, and when it hit the flag, I said, just please don't come out of there.
Q. Is it true that your grandparents keep a house in Augusta, and what is it going to be like to sleep tonight knowing that win tomorrow could get you there?  It's not an automatic qualifier but it could get you the FedExCup points you need.
SCOTT BROWN: I really don't think about it, and they're not -- no comment on the Augusta fight.  I don't think there's really a fight.
Q. What would it be like to get to play there when you grew upright there?
SCOTT BROWN: Obviously a dream come true, growing up that close, being able to play there is maybe something I've been dreaming about since I was five years old.  It would mean everything to me.
KEVIN KISNER: He keeps playing like that, he'll play plenty of Masters.
Q. What's the mindset knowing you've just got to play one hole tomorrow?
KEVIN KISNER: Same thing we always do, got to get something to eat, laugh, and go to bed.
Q. What did you guys say to each other going to 18?
KEVIN KISNER: I just said we probably need 3 to have a chance, and I knew we couldn't probably get there.  I hit a great one and he hit a good one, and we had a perfect angle on that shot.  It was dark.  I knew if we just got it up there and had a chance, you never know what could happen.
Q. Is it safe to say you like the format?
SCOTT BROWN: We love the format.  Obviously we play together quite a bit at home.  We kind of sneaky practiced for this event last week at home together, and I feel like we were prepared for it.
Q. Where does that shot rank amongst your career --
KEVIN KISNER: It would be in the top three.  I don't know, man.  It's too much to think about right now.  But I just was trying to make sure I got it to the hole, and I did, and just glad it stayed in there.
Q. Was it hard to see?
KEVIN KISNER: No, I could still see the flag.  We were using that TV out there in the water for the light.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT