MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2017
Kevin Kisner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Pleasant day out there. Talk about it. 
KEVIN KISNER: The gusts was what was incredible. Scotty had a 2‑footer on 14 that blew to 12 feet. 
And just like the wedge shot on 15, who knows what's going to happen. 
You're trying to hit these small targets and the wind's going from 15 to 20 to 40. It's just incredible trying to hit those numbers. 
But I hung in there. I was 4‑over through 12 and finished at 2. So I'm pretty pleased with my day.

Q. Last year you talked about how tough the wind was last year. Compare this to last year. 
KEVIN KISNER: Well, it was weird, like through nine holes it was like, you know, it's not terrible, you can still make birdies. 
But then when I was on about 14 I thought they might pull us off. Because his ball's rolling, I noticed guys in front of us, their ball was rolling. So I think it was just the gusts were higher this year than last year. 

Q. How much would you like to see a calm day finally at this place?
KEVIN KISNER: I was telling my caddie, I said, hopefully we get it next year and we can play a normal Masters one time. 

Q. Did you notice that Dustin Johnson withdrew? 
KEVIN KISNER: I just saw it on TV. That's so unfortunate, he's playing as good as he ever has in his career, I'm sure, and I'm sure it's as disappointing for him as it is for anybody.

Q. Can you imagine the day before the Tournament having that happen?
KEVIN KISNER: That's just unheard of. I'm sure he was hanging out with his kid and it was a freak accident. But life goes on. He's all right. He's got plenty of money. 

Q. Toughest shot you faced today?
KEVIN KISNER: Every one I stood over. I thought the back nine played incredibly hard. That wedge shot on 15, who knows what's going to happen. I think that's probably one of the hardest ones.

Q. How far did you have there?
KEVIN KISNER: I had 97 hole or something like that. Hit a pitching wedge. Which is a 135 yard club for me. So that kind of gives you an idea.

Q. Full wedge?
KEVIN KISNER: No, I just chipped it underneath it, but I hit it on the front fringe.

Q. Was it straight into the teeth of the wind right there?
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah. I hit driver, 3‑iron to lay up. Normally I hit driver, 3‑iron on the green. 

Q. 74, did that feel like par or maybe under par?
KEVIN KISNER: No, probably about par. Like I said, when I was 1‑ or 2‑over early, I felt like you could still make birdies early. I hit a lot of great putts, but I really didn't hole a putt until the last hole. So, I felt like that that was probably about even par. I felt like I could have shot 70 or 69 if I played great and everything went my way. 

Q. Was this one of those days where you couldn't try to get too discouraged about something, knowing that the whole field is distinguishing to fairways that?
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah you just had to hang in there somehow. It's just brutal to try to hang in, too, because you just never feel comfortable over any shot. You have such small areas that you're trying to hit and it's just impossible to hit.

Q. Have you ever had a little freak injury that kept you out of a tournament at some point?
KEVIN KISNER: I don't think so, no. Last year I hurt my back on the range, but that wasn't a freak accident, I don't think.

Q. What did you do?
KEVIN KISNER: Just got locked up on me and I played through it. 

Q. You'll think twice before going down steps in socks. 
KEVIN KISNER: I will. I have all hard woods in my house and Kevin Chappell is staying with me and he said, "I'm wearing my bare feet every time I go up‑and‑down those stairs." 

Q. 16, what did you hit off the tee and what does that kind of do for you just to have a close look at birdie there?
KEVIN KISNER: Well, yeah, I hit a 6‑iron. It was 167 yards, so I was just trying to hit something low and flight it and keep it under the wind and it came out perfect. 
That's one, you hit shots like that when your day's going well. If more of those would have happened, I would have shot a couple under. But that is what it is. I hit a lot of good shots that didn't work out. So, it's always nice to have a good one that does. 

Q. Do you think the guys that teed off in the last couple hours are getting the worst of it?
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah, those gusts an hour ago were as big as I've ever played in. Felt like British Open gusts. So hopefully it keeps gusting like hell. 
(Laughter.)
But that they don't call them off. 
(Laughter.)







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT