NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: RED WINGS v FLYERS
May 30, 1997
Scotty Bowman
Sergei Fedorov
Brendan Shanahan
Mike Vernon
Steve Yzerman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Scotty, before we start talking about the series, can you give us the reaction to
the Ken Dryden signing this morning by the Toronto Maple Leafs?
 
 COACH BOWMAN: I just found out right now. I didn't know. You mean as the manager? 
 
Q. President.
 
 COACH BOWMAN: I am happy for him. He is a great player and very astute person, so, I
wish him well. 
 
Q. Scotty, any idea who would be playing against Eric Lindros.
 
 COACH BOWMAN: I said we would play all our players because he plays nearly half the
game. We just couldn't have one player and I also -- I was asked if we would play
Konstantinov against him like Florida played Jovanovski and I said we have our most
experienced defensemen. We have 5 of them that play quite a bit. They will all play
against him. 
 
Q. Scotty, did it surprise you how well your team played in the Semi Finals, how it
looked like they came out in the 6th game?
 
 COACH BOWMAN: No, because the team wanted to play like it was, you know, the 7th game.
We had already squandered one opportunity to put that team out. And the fourth win isn't
easy most of the time. What I was mostly surprised about was the fact that we had a one
goal lead early in the second period and we, you know, it is nothing wrong with the game
we were playing, real top game, but you are only up by one goal and we didn't go into a
defensive shell and had to keep attacking. Even when they made it 2 to 1, we still had
some scoring chances after that. 
 
Q. Brendan, ten years in the League you have never been here before. Is this a nerve
rattling thing, a little bit of butterflies?
 
 BRENDAN SHANAHAN: Well, actually, I guess I have always thought about what it would be
like to be in this situation. But I think once you are playing and once you are involved,
you just keep coming to the rink every day and you just get in a zone where you keep going
to work and when you get done with one opponent, you take on the next and I don't think
you really have time to reflect on it. You just -- there is too much work to be done. 
 
Q. Steve, you also are a veteran. You have been here once. Are your nerves rattling for
you?
 
 STEVE YZERMAN: A little bit. I found myself more at ease as the Playoffs have gone on.
I find myself more uptight at the start of the Playoffs in the first round. It seems with
each round, I feel a little bit more comfortable and more at ease with things, but
generally before every game, particularly here in the Playoffs, you get a little bit more
uptight and a little bit more jittery, but it is nothing, no more so than any other game
in the Playoffs this year. 
 
Q. I wanted to ask Mike, even though you won the Cup a while ago, do you draw from that
experience or just from experiences more recent?
 
 MIKE VERNON: I think that experience helps you. There is no doubt. Especially dealing
with the other activities that come along, like the media, the press conference, and it
just keeps your focus. And, I think that those years that we have been here before, I
think it is sometimes nerve wracking when you come for the first time, sometimes
intimidating when you come for the first time with all the attention. And I think our
hockey club now has some -- has a lot of players on it that have been in this position
before, have been to the Finals and I think it is -- I think they will just focus more on
hockey and they can also deal with the media factor. 
 
Q. Brendan, you said you visualized this happening. Last summer, did you visualize it
with the Flyers at all and can you talk about that and now getting to play against the
team you might have thought you were going to play for....
 
 BRENDAN SHANAHAN: Well, I guess at first I thought when I had asked for the trade, I
had heard the Flyers were interested and the Rangers were interested. But really once
Keith asked for a trade, it almost seemed like it was going to be Detroit. It was just a
complicated deal that took some time to work out, so I really don't think about it too
much because, you know, in the last couple of years with the trade from St. Louis and then
requesting a trade from Hartford, a lot of teams pop up and you try and follow it and you
try and stay on top of it. But, really, it is not in your control and so you really can't
think about it too much to control it. 
 
Q. Scotty, you got a lot of guys who have never won the Cup. You have won 7. What does
the Stanley Cup mean to you?
 
 COACH BOWMAN: Well, every player, you know, every person that starts the season, you
know, it is the ultimate goal of every person. Sometimes you get very fortunate to get on
some teams and it is really difficult on players that don't win sometimes because it is
not always in their own hands. I have been in hockey for years and I was fortunate when I
first started, I didn't have anything to do with the team. But, I got into Montreal and
they won 4 Cups in a row and I was only like a junior coach and scout. You feel when the
season is over, you really feel that your season is complete even in an area where you are
-- it is everybody in the organization and I think that there is an awful feeling when you
don't win the Stanley Cup, if you get this far, there is even some feelings when you have
big expectations and don't get to the Finals. That is what everybody plays for and, you
know, when you win the first Stanley Cup, you can always remember it and I think as far as
coaches are concerned, when you do win the Stanley Cup, it gives them a lot more longevity
and, you know, there is not as much longevity in that job. But it is everybody, it is
everybody's ambition and their desire no matter who you are in the organization to try to
win. 
 
Q. Brendan, can you compare and contrast yourself with John LeClair's left winging?
 
 BRENDAN SHANAHAN: I really haven't seen him that much. I am playing in the same
division, but not really. I don't really spend time comparing myself to other players. I
mean, we are both left wingers. Obviously we are both counting on scoring goals and have a
physical presence. But, you know, I actually -- I started playing against John LeClair
when we were on the under 18 team. He was playing for team U.S.A. and I was with Team
Canada, so, you know, he had really - had a great career and -- but I don't spend time
really thinking about comparing myself to him. 
 
Q. Scotty, Terry Murray says he has great respect for you. What are your feelings about
Terry Murry?
 
 COACH BOWMAN: I didn't realize that he could - did play in the mid-70's. I knew he was
with the Flyers. I didn't know he was on that team. But, you know, I got to know him
actually when he was in Washington. I thought, you know, that team had some tough times
because they had and were a good team and getting into the Playoffs against teams like
Pittsburgh had so much going for them. And, you know, I know his brother, Brian, because
when I got to Detroit, he was the general manager. I remember he played in Oakland and I
remember him as a player and then when you get him into the NHL to have gone on to this
team and now taken him where he is, when you coach, sometimes you are in the wrong place
at the wrong time and it makes it tough to succeed. But, you know, coming here he felt
comfortable with the Flyers and, you know, there is always a lot of controversy if you are
coaching a team like Philadelphia and he has survived it all. 
 
Q. Sergei Fedorov, what did you say at the Stanley Cup as a child if you thought of it
at all and have your feelings changed from then to now?
 
 SERGEI FEDOROV: When I was growing up in Russia, I didn't think such a thing existed.
When I first, in 1985, 1986, Super Series with the Russian teams came to North America and
competed against North American teams kind of get the idea what NHL is, what kind of style
teams play here and what they compete for. But until I came to North America, I probably
wasn't exactly understanding what Stanley Cup was all about. Being in the Finals in three
years the second time, it is definitely - get under my mind and now it is the most
toughest trophy to win in your hockey career. And, it is not easy to compete throughout
the three rounds and get in the fourth. It has been my desire and dream to win one of
those. 
 
Q. Mike, you and Hextall have come from similar situations this year. It looked like it
might be the other guy this time of year. You both kind have been one.
 
 MIKE VERNON: Well, I guess you never count those old guys out, those veterans, I guess.
We are stubborn, I guess. And we just both want the opportunity to play. I am sure he
feels the same way. I mean, I think we are both pretty ecstatic about being here now. 
 
Q. Scotty, do you get greater satisfaction of coaching a team like this or knowing the
role, that you put together a club like this because of your administrative duties in
making trades and whatnot, that started when you came to Detroit?
 
 COACH BOWMAN: Well, I mean, everybody gets involved in it, you know, it is always
focused on one person. But, you know, we have a good group of people in Detroit. When I
got there the team was pretty solid and, you know, the team was very strong and there were
a lot of younger players in the system that are now than more than just regular players. I
think it is like all teams when they didn't succeed couple years ago. It is a difficult
business to play and not win. You have to have some changes and the changes are always
difficult. Even when you win, you have a few players that you are going to change. And, I
think that is what has happened to our team. We have been able to add players that have
meant a lot to the team but they have brought, you know -- the other players on the team
had to mesh together and the chemistry on the team has to be solid because it is important
to the players you bring into the team what they are going to do for the team. That has
been the biggest addition this year is that every one of the players that was added has
done something even a little different than each other. 
 
Q. Sergei Fedorov, there are a lot of things in Philadelphia about the 1976 game
between the Flyers and the Red Army team. Do you have any recollections of that as a child
and there is some pretty harsh feelings here in this city for that team. Do you remember
any harsh feelings for the Flyers back then?
 
 SERGEI FEDOROV: No, not at all because I was living outside of Moscow. I believe,
Moscow can catch those games. I can't watch them all. I was probably seven, eight years
old and I lived a little bit outside big cities. I wasn't sure what I was going to do in
my life, but I was at that time, spend so much time on ice. 
 
Q. Can you just follow-up on the Hextall situation and your similar situations. What
does it say about two goalies who maybe four months ago people didn't think they would
even be on those teams or in the Finals and how it kept you both from going to the funny
farm and maybe having the experience to not let that bother you?
 
 MIKE VERNON: Well, I think both of us, we didn't say anything. We didn't come public
and asked to be traded. We kept our mouths shut and we just worked away. I mean, sometimes
if you take that route, sometimes good things will follow. I think that, well, I know that
I didn't say too much because it was out of my control. It was mostly on Scotty and his
decisions. But, I mean, I just wanted to play hockey. And Scotty knew that and, you know,
I think that that is all any player that asks is just for that opportunity to play and to
prove his stuff. I mean, it is a great opportunity for both of us right now. 
 
Q. Can you talk about what you all learned from the last four years of Playoff
disappointments and how you applied all that to this year?
 
 STEVE YZERMAN: I guess including the three seasons, we played a lot of Playoff hockey a
lot of overtime; won some good ones; lost a couple of tough ones. Obviously getting beaten
and being swept off disappointments and losing to Colorado last year just playing all the
hockey and being through all the pressure situations and having to respond in coming back
from down 3-1 in the series, we pretty much been through everything, and I have just found
our team, a few new faces, but the majority of the team have played in the previous couple
of years. Being through it all has enabled us to, I think, be a little bit more relaxed.
Obviously we know a little bit more what to expect and how to handle all the different
situations. I think that has benefited us to this point in this year's Playoffs. 
 
Q. Having not been the No. 1 guy all year and not played as many games, does it help at
all now in terms of being fresher, you haven't gone through 15, 16 Playoff games, are you
in better shape physically?
 
 MIKE VERNON: I think I am pretty much well rested, there is no doubt. The 82 game
schedule, I think does take a lot out of a goaltender if he plays a lot and I think the
situation with Chris and I over the last three years, we split a lot and I think it has
kept both of us fresher and stronger in the long run. 
 
Q. Sergei, you took a stick to the stomach and came back and scored. Over the years,
have you had to, for lack of a better description, toughen up your game in the NHL to
continue to be a scorer?
 
 SERGEI FEDOROV: I believe that was a clean hit. It just happened to be received in the
stomach area; lost my breath for a while. But, I just -- I guess getting through that
tough time, and refresh my memory, trying to stay focused, that is actually what I did in
the locker room and I didn't think about anything else. Just to go back to the game and
try to be helpful as much as I can and certain times, absolutely, it is not easy. But,
that was my desire to play in the Finals and have done everything I can to get back and
like Steve says, play lots of Playoff hockey with the up and downs and make you much
stronger persons as far as experience no matter how bad it is or how good it is. You just
know what you have got to go through and you have got to do it and actually open mind on
those things. And, you have the chance to realize what you are facing. And, when you have
been through all kind of stuff and playing injured, I mean, just takes only very straight
thought what you are capable of doing and how bad you want it. 
 
Q. Steve, a lot has been made of the size, the matchups, Philadelphia size. How much of
a concern is that for you and how do you combat it as a team?
 
 STEVE YZERMAN: Well, I think through and through I don't consider our team to be a
small team. Obviously the Flyers have a few giants and we don't have a forward that is the
size of Eric. They have got a few big guys, but in general, our team through and through,
we don't have the 6'6 guys or the 6'5, 240 guys but majority of our players are in the
6'1, 6'2, 200, 215 range which is pretty good size and strength. I would consider our team
to play reasonably physical. We don't expect to go out and run them out of the rink, for
that matter, playing against players like Lindros and LeClair, you can't really. I think
other teams try to really beat them up and I don't think that is necessarily going to
work. But our team does play physical, does play hard and just got to be prepared to get
hit because you are going to get hit and we expect that. But also play physical as well. 
 
Q. Speed make up for that, though?
 
 STEVE YZERMAN: Well, I don't know that either team has the distinct advantage in speed.
I think they have got a pretty highly skilled team as well. Their forwards are pretty
quick through and through from the first down to the fourth line. But, speed does help. I
think we have got a pretty good skating club and I think we are a pretty strong team as
well. So, I don't -- through and through I don't see us being overly outsized.  
 COACH BOWMAN: I think we are fourth in our defense. Our defense are experienced, but
they are -- there is not a small defensemen among them. I have seen teams where if your
defense is closed and you are going against big forwards, it is a tough match up. But, we
have been fortunate that our defensemen we have got on our team now are pretty strong and
pretty good size for the most part. It wasn't just by design. It is just the way it
happened. But, they have got good size and they have to match up against the forwards. I
think if you have a small defense against team like Philadelphia you would have to be very
skilled and very quick. 
 
Q. Steve, for all the experience you have had in the past, when you got to the Finals
two years ago, did you find it different one level up in pressure intensity and did you
learn from that it is going to help you this time?
 
 STEVE YZERMAN: Well, as you know, things came and went pretty quickly in the Finals.
Yeah, I think I have generally found that the level of play picks up and teams are usually
playing their best hockey when they get to the Finals. The previous time against the
Devils they were certainly flying and everything was going right for them. We fell behind
early in the series and couldn't catch up. You learn a lot from that. I think just being
there, the thing I take out of it mostly is that I found it really exciting and it was a
real thrill to get to the Finals. But this time around, it wasn't as big a thrill. The
thrill is winning when you get there, not just necessarily getting there. That is the one
thing that stuck out in my mind last week. It wasn't as thrilling, but obviously beating
Colorado is a great triumph for our team. The real thrill is winning, that would be the
one thing that jumps in my mind most. 
 
Q. Brendan, you have played against Konstantinov. You have played with him. Can you
talk a little bit about what it is like to play both sides of the fence?
 
 BRENDAN SHANAHAN: Well, to be on his team you just respect the way he shows up to play
every night and you know he is touch, an ultimate competitor, and it doesn't matter if you
are playing a division rival or a team that you only see once or twice a year, he plays
the same way. Playing against him, I always felt that, you know, he forces you to compete
and if you weren't on top of your game, he was going to embarrass you. So I think that now
that I am on his team, I think I appreciate it more and I just see the toughness that he
brings to the game. He doesn't complain. He doesn't pretend that he is hurt. He takes as
much as he gives. But, he doesn't expect not to get hit and never expects for a player not
to take a hit from him. 
 
Q. Scotty, because hockey is worldwide, and the Cup is the singular trophy in sports,
is it really a win-everything and lose-everything kind of proposition? It seems that way
if you don't win the Cup, you haven't won anything? 
 
 COACH BOWMAN: Yeah, I think it is like that in other sports, though, too. When you get
-- I mean, I made my home in Buffalo for the last 15 years. When you get to the Super
Bowl, you never regard it as a second best team. You are just the team that couldn't win.
And that is unfortunate. But, I think that is like in other sports. But, certainly in
hockey, you know, I think when you sit back and look at your whole picture and your season
and you probably don't think that way, but it is a reality, if you don't win the event,
you are not a failure, but you are certainly sort of disappointed. Anybody here in the
media that knows anybody in the League or anywhere that can get any tickets - I have been
in the league now for 40 years and this is the most distressful time I have ever
experienced. Our players are here. They get two tickets to buy. We used to get some more
to buy. We couldn't trade tickets with Philadelphia. They just didn't have any. We don't
have any to trade with them. I am making a plea because it is pretty tough when your
friends and family can't come to the Stanley Cup Final and that is a fact. I am pissed
off. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT