THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 5, 2019
Polona Hercog
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. GAUFF/P. Hercog
3-6, 7-6, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Tough conditions out there for you.  The world is going crazy for this girl.  You get involved in a back-and-forth match.  What are your feelings coming off that?
POLONA HERCOG: I think I was playing, like, really good tennis for the two sets.  I had my chances.  You know, it was millimeters.  It was just not meant to be today.
Yeah, that's it.  Not much to say after, yeah, being, like, a millimeter away from winning.
Q. What happened in the match points?  Any particular thing you did wrong in that situation?
POLONA HERCOG: Yeah, of course now it's easy to be smart after the match, like what to do at the match points.  Yeah, definitely double fault was not something I wanted to do, but I wanted to go for a little bigger second serve.  But, you know, didn't work out today.  It will next time.
Q. How impressed are you by her?
POLONA HERCOG: She's very young.  Of course she has the mentality to do it.  Very fit.  Yeah, of course she has a big future, I think.
Q. Are you impressed with her maturity and the way she sort of hung in the match and was able to come back?
POLONA HERCOG: I would say, yeah, she's probably older in her head than the numbers show, so that's definitely one of the things.  She has also already, like, a huge team behind her for five years, so that's also something that, you know, some players don't have.  That's a plus for her.
Q. Did you have any physical issue?  Seemed like you needed a trainer at one point.
POLONA HERCOG: Yeah, in the end of the second set I was starting to feel my glut.  I think I pulled my glut.
Yeah, I started cramping in the third set, so that didn't really help me.  Of course it was probably the nerves a little bit all together, and quite physical match.  Yeah, it's just, you know, tough to be so close and not much to say.
Q. Is it difficult with the crowd being so, you know, so much behind her for the obvious reasons.  She's a newcomer and she's young.  It has to be difficult to deal with the conditions when you have so many people so crazy for the other player.
POLONA HERCOG: Yeah, but, you know, it was something to be expected.  It's a big thing right now, so I wasn't really expecting a lot of people to be on my side.
But, you know, at the end of the day I don't really care because I'm playing for myself and not for the people.  I mean, definitely it is difficult in some big moments, but it was not something that I would say made a difference for me.
Q. How are you able to handle tough losses?  Are you able to forget about them quickly or do they stay with you?
POLONA HERCOG: I mean, I'm sure I will be thinking about it the next days probably, hopefully as little as possible.
But, you know, I'm just really proud of myself the way I played.  And especially the first two sets I don't really think she had any chances, so I just think if I, you know, made that serve or something, you know, it would just be, like, 6-3, 6-3.  So it could turn out completely different, and I think if I keep playing like that I have chances in any tournament I go.
Q. How big a role was nerves, getting nervous and choking in that situation?
POLONA HERCOG: I wouldn't say choking, you know, like she hit lines and, I mean, that's nothing I can do about.  Definitely, yeah, I mean, it's difficult to close some matches like that also, you know.
Also first time for me and for her playing on the big court like that, but, you know, it was, as I said, not meant to be today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT