THE WALKER CUP
September 12, 2015
Denny McCarthy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Was the three-hole stretch on the back nine the difference in the match?
McCARTHY: Yeah. We both played really well all day. I made bogey on 11 and then he birdied 12 and 13, so he got a 3-up lead real fast. The score was much closer than it was at that point. I knew there was some tough holes coming in I knew that if I could make some pars, I?d have a chance. I had a good birdie on 14 and eagled 16 (drove the green) and made pars on the hard holes.   And he matched me on the hard holes. It was a tough battle.
Q. You were inspired by the other players? turnaround because it looked a little bleak for a bit for the Americans?
McCARTHY: I saw a lot of matches were at all square and I saw a few in [GB&I?s] favor, so I figured my match would be pretty important. So I just clamped down and do the best that I could. I think I shot under par (equivalent of 2-under 68 with concessions), which would win most matches out here. Unfortunately, I just ran into a buzzsaw today. Jimmy played a great round of golf. It?s tough, but that?s golf.
Q. The team is making a bit of a run from the disappointment from this morning?s foursomes session when you lost three of four matches. Does this give you some momentum going into Sunday?
McCARTHY: We?ve only played 12 points out of 26. We still have plenty of golf left tomorrow. We?re not worried. There?s still plenty of golf left.
Q. Any pep talk from Captain Miller during lunch?
McCARTHY: We just kind of relaxed and took it easy. The wind switched around on us this afternoon, so we just talked about some strategy on some holes.
Q. Did the conditions change much from morning to afternoon?
McCARTHY: We played a completely different wind for all five practice rounds and it was a similar wind for the first seven holes today, and then the wind completely switched [from the southwest to the northwest] and it was a wind we hadn?t seen yet before. The golf course played completely different and we had to adapt to that, and I thought we did a good job this morning and did a good job this afternoon.
Q. Did the wind die down at all?
McCARTHY: From 30 to 20 miles per hour. It didn?t really die down. The hard holes I was hitting driving-4-iron into 15. On 17, I smoked a 3-wood and smoked a 5-iron. And he just matched me on those holes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT