U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 18, 2015
Denny McCarthy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Yesterday, no big numbers and limiting the mistakes.  You had a plus 1?DENNY McCARTHY: Yes.Q. Sounds like you pretty much stuck to what you suggested you needed to do?DENNY McCARTHY: Yes, I kept my highest score as a bogey, which was good.  I think any day you can eliminate high numbers like doubles and triples, it's somewhat of a successful day.  That was one of my goals going into day was no doubles and I did that. There was one time today I was staring double in the face, but I grinded it out and made a good bogey.  I gave myself a lot of looks early on the back nine, didn't really convert.  I gave myself four really good looks in a row and then all of a sudden I didn't convert and I make two bogeys in a row.  I was even at that point in my round, I was looking to go a couple under and then I made a couple bogeys.  And the next thing you know I'm a couple over.  I had to grind it out. My brother did a good job of keeping me focused.  I got one back on 16, and then finished with two pars.  All in all, I'm pretty pleased with the round.  I didn't shoot myself out of the tournament, I'm still right there.Q. 16 looked to have been a turning point.  You could have very easily have come unglued and come home in bad shape?DENNY McCARTHY: Yeah, I made those two bogeys -- after 14, I made bogey and then all of a sudden I get up on 15, and we hadn't felt any breeze at all for the past hour or two, all of a sudden we get up on 15, it's blowing right in our face.  Those holes are open and exposed, 15, 16, 17, so they played really tough.  I bogeyed 15, birdied 16, parred 17, so I played the three holes with the most wind even par and I'm pretty pleased with that.  That's a hard stretch with the wind.  They were all right pins and all into right-to-left winds, so really hard to get close to the pin.  I think I managed prey well to get out with even par on those holes.Q. Strategy doesn't change for tomorrow.  You basically keep it in the road and try to avoid mistakes?DENNY McCARTHY: Yeah, absolutely.  Just try and each hole you got to get up and find fairways, the first part.  When you get that, you have got to figure out where the pin is, where you want to leave, that's the second part, and hitting the green.  And then just leaving yourself a look at birdie, but get a par.  That's the game plan on every hole.  Put yourself in good position, give yourself a chance at birdie and secure par. I did that for the most part today.  Had a few loose shots, but all in all I gave myself a lot of good looks.  I didn't convert as wells I would have liked.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT