U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2014
Denny McCarthy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PETE KOWALSKI: Like to welcome the eighth of our eight U.S. Amateur quarterfinalists for 2014, Denny McCarthy from Rockville, Maryland who beat he lie coal 1-up. A great day for you obviously.  You won two matches to advance to the quarterfinals of the U.S. Amateur.  Tell us the highlights of your day, if you don't mind.DENNY McCARTHY: Well, the first two matches, I got up early so it was nice to keep putting the pedal down and keep putting pressure on my opponents.  Today I was the one that got down early.  I knew it was going to be a really big grind coming to the house. Yeah, I missed a couple short putts early, but I've been hitting it well all week and I knew if I just kept playing my game, I'd get a few putts to drop, and I got a timely one on 16, which was really big for me.  I'm just really excited.  The last couple holes, it's a blur to me now.PETE KOWALSKI: 16, tell us more in detail about that hole, because it sounds like that was the key for you.DENNY McCARTHY: Yeah, they moved the tees up, a couple tee boxes and it was 300 to carry all the traps.  I've been hitting my driver pretty good all week and I knew I could carry those pretty easily. So I just picked an aggressive line with my driver and just swung away at it.  Had about 95 yards, probably playing a hundred with the uphill, and surprised it went as far as it did.  I usually hit a 60-degree, 95 yards and I figured with the adrenaline, 100 yards would be good, and I probably flew that 110. So yeah, that was nice to roll that putt in.  It was downhill.  I thought it was fast.  I touched it and it was still going five feet by.  So it was nice to see that hit the hole.PETE KOWALSKI: And you had a comeback.DENNY McCARTHY: Correct.  I would have had to make the comebacker.PETE KOWALSKI: No, and I'm saying you had to make the comeback in the match.DENNY McCARTHY: Yeah, I knew 15 -- if I could get to 15 -- I missed a short one on 12 to be 3-down and I thought if I could get to 15 tee being 2-down, I thought that was a good goal to strive for.  15 through 18, it's a brutal out here.  If you can play them even or 1-under, you're doing pretty good. I just figured if I played a good, solid hole on 15, which I did, I made a good par, and got the lead to 1-down and obviously the birdie on 16.  I felt really comfortable with my game, and it kind of worked out in my favor.Q. Where do you get your experience from making a run like this in match play, since you probably have never gone this far here?DENNY McCARTHY: That's correct.  I played in the Midlands Amateur the last couple years.  That's earlier in the summer for me and I figure that had would be a good tournament to develop my match-play skills and I've been pretty successful the last couple years. I've learned to really -- it's not really playing the opponent.  You're really playing the golf course, especially with the last four holes out here, it's all against the golf course.  Pars are going to be a good score.  But yeah, this is my sixth time here, so actually, I feel pretty comfortable overall being in this position, being here at the U.S. Am.Q. Do you think about the implications that a really good finish could have on potential Walker Cup status for next year?DENNY McCARTHY: I've thought about it before but I haven't really thought about it the last couple days.  I'm so focused before I go out and play.  I stick to my routine every day before I play.  So I really don't get ahead of myself and kind of just stay in the present.PETE KOWALSKI: Does this rank as your best golf accomplishment, do you think?DENNY McCARTHY: To this point, yeah, I'd say so.  Like I said it's my sixth time being here, and I had some heartbreaking losses three years in a row in the first round of match play.  When I won the first match here, it was like a monkey off the back a little bit.  But I'm really just focused on my game and just focused on my next match.Q. How much do you know about Roman, and have you guys played before in the past, and does it help a little bit to, does it ease you a little bit knowing your opponent?DENNY McCARTHY: Right, I've known Roman for the last year or so.  I played with him at a college tournament last fall.  Me and him are really good buddies.  Became even closer at the Porter Cup a couple weeks ago.  Yeah, I'm sure we'll have a good time out there.  It will be nice and relaxed.  We'll be talking, I'm sure.PETE KOWALSKI: Congratulations.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT