U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2014
Denny McCarthy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DENNY MCCARTHY: I came off 18, I had a short birdie putt.  I was pretty disappointed in that.  I had putted a really good hole on 18 and didn't convert, and got a little frustrated.  Calmed myself down to walk to 1 and knew if I had a par-5 there that would get me started.  I played a really good hole.  It's a beast of a hole with a tough pin and made a good putt for birdie.Q. How far was that?DENNY MCCARTHY: About 7-feet behind the hole and nice downhill, left-to-right curler and just played smart.  They tucked the pins on Riverside.  They played some really tough pins.  I thought if I could just -- I drove the ball great today.  I think I hit 11 or 12 out of 14 fairways and just bombing them past all the bunkers too, so I was getting myself really good opportunities even with the tucked pins. I got some short irons in my hands, some wedges, and just put them in the right spots where I was able to make some putts.  I knew I was playing well enough, I knew if I could see one putt going on like one that I could get on a little roll and gave myself more opportunities with wedges and start feeling really comfortable with everything.  Once I start making a couple putts, it kind of feeds and helps the rest of my game.Q. In that run where you made four birdies in five holes, were there a couple where you hit it dead close or you made a couple long ones?DENNY MCCARTHY: Yeah, I made about a 15-footer on number 4.  Turned a 3-wood perfectly down the middle and only had 95 yards, so even though I didn't hit the best of wedge shots, still had a great look up the hill.  Then same thing with number 5.  I hit a drive perfectly right in the middle of the fairway, gave myself a good wedge opportunity, made about a 15-footer there too. Then 7 and 8, bombed it on 7 up the hill and had another wedge in and made about a 10-footer, and then just got rolling.  Got up on 8 and hit it to about eight feet there and made that.  So I think it helped too that we actually missed our checkpoint.  So I was more worried about focusing on that and making that, so I think that took a little of the pressure off me.  Instead of thinking about my round, I was just thinking about something else, which I think kind of helped me.Q. Do you agree with what some of the players are saying that Riverside as a companion course is a lot more difficult than other companion courses at U.S. Amateurs?DENNY MCCARTHY: I think so.  You're making me feel old here, but this is my sixth U.S. Am, so I've seen my fair share of other courses besides the main course.  This one definitely, especially with what they did with the pins today, I thought going into it someone could really shoot a low score.  But after seeing what they did with the pins, I thought 3-under was a pretty good score.  So, yeah, I've got my work cut out for me tomorrow, but it's a good start for this course.Q. When you get a start like this, and you know the philosophy is just get qualified for match play, do you change your philosophy for tomorrow or do you stay aggressive?DENNY MCCARTHY: I stay aggressive.  If I hit my driver like I did today, I think I'm going to be in a really good spot.  My mindset for my first couple Ams was make match play, but this time around, I'm kind of expecting to make match play and eventually make a deep run.  Right now I'm just taking it a step at a time and just focus on a shot at a time.  But I'm definitely playing well enough to shoot another good round.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT