HONDA CLASSIC
March 19, 2021
Denny McCarthy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Two weeks in a row.  Nice bounce back after the bogey at 6 to birdie 7 and 9.  Is the golf course any different today than it was yesterday?
 DENNY McCARTHY:   Just a different wind today, so it changed it up quite a bit.  Still pretty soft and the greens are receptive and the rough's not up, so you're able to hold shots, even if you do hit it in the rough.  But when the wind blows like this, this place is never easy.  I think I've just done a good job of keeping it in front of me and leaving myself some makeable putts on the green.
 Q. Obviously last week you were in great position headed to the weekend.  Did you learn anything from last week as you go into this weekend?
 DENNY McCARTHY:   Yeah, I think the more times I can put myself in this spot, the more comfortable I get.  I really don't feel like I played that bad on the weekend last week.  The result just wasn't great.  Just a few bad stretches each day.  And, but overall, the golf's been really solid the last three weeks, so I think I just continue what I do, what I have been doing, and I'll be in good shape.
 Q. You live in the area here in Jupiter.  Do you feel any more added pressure to play well?  Obviously you grew up in Maryland, but you live here now, do you feel any extra pressure?
 DENNY McCARTHY:   I think I have the past few years.  This is the place where I got my job.  I got through final stage of Q-School here to get my WEB.COM card.  And then I've kind of struggled here the last three years.  But it's a place that I've always thought has suited my game, playing on the Bermuda grass down here.  I like playing in the wind.  I think it forces you to be more creative, which is kind of more my style of play.  And, you know, I felt really relaxed the last few days, I think, knowing that my game was in good shape, knowing that I was in really good form last week and just trying to relax and picture my shots out there and it's worked out so far.
 Q. Any trouble spots out there that these guys this afternoon may face?
 DENNY McCARTHY:   Obviously The Bear Trap is tough.  There's some tricky holes on the front nine.  I mean 1, 2, 3 are birdie holes, and then even 4, for a short hole, can bite you, it's just a tough green to hit.
 And then 5, I always think 4, 5, 6, 7 is a tough little stretch.
 7 was 215 straight into the wind today.  I think I almost made another hole-in-one today, I hit a burned 4-iron after a pretty soft bogey at 6 and then hit it in there to six or seven feet.  So that was nice, kind of a bonus after a bad bogey.  But there's some, obviously The Bear Trap and then there's that stretch that I just mentioned.  But there's definitely some gettable holes out there, especially with the softness.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT