ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
March 1, 2020
Sophie Ecclestone
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








England - 143/5, West Indies - 97/9
Q. Do you think you've built performances and momentum quite nicely since that slip-up in the first game?
SOPHIE ECCLESTONE: Yeah, I think it was a bit of a wake-up call for us all to be like, right, we're in the World Cup now, we need to up our game, and yeah, we did, and I'm really glad how the girls have fought back.
Q. What kind of things were said after that first game to get you back on track, to get you in this position now, I guess?
SOPHIE ECCLESTONE: I don't think much was said. I think all the girls knew how much of a big thing it was for everyone to be in the World Cup, and I think everyone just trained a hit harder and was having a bit of a laugh and a joke because when we're at our best, so everyone was really happy and ready to go for the next game.
Q. And you personally, you must be bowling with a lot of confidence. I think it's 18 matches in a row you've got a wicket, as well. How do you think you're going currently?
SOPHIE ECCLESTONE: Oh, I didn't know that, so that's quite nice to know. Yeah, obviously I'm really happy with how I'm bowling currently and I just hope it continues. Especially with Glenny and now Mady in the team, it's obviously really nice to have a spin companionship, and it's really nice.
Q. You've got that spin squadron and also a bit of a younger player squadron. This team hasn't been that great at turning over players the last few years, but now you've got these young spinners coming through around you. What's it like to be part of that group, that little group within a group?
SOPHIE ECCLESTONE: I think it's very nice because when I put songs on the playlist, it's quite nice to have people actually know my songs now. But yeah, obviously having Glenny and Mady, I really get on well with them, and they're some of my best friends now in the squad, and it's really nice to have them and also all to be performing well together and winning games for England. It's a dream come true really.
Q. You perhaps weren't under as much pressure tonight with the ball as you have been in some other matches, but Heather has thrown you the ball for a super over in the last few weeks. You bowled at the death against South Africa. Is that a pressure you relish, and obviously it's a pressure you might face in the next week, as well. Is that something that brings the best out of you?
SOPHIE ECCLESTONE: Yeah, I think the pressure being on me brings the best out of me personally. Some of the girls know that I knew I wanted that super over, and I knew it was going to be me. I was tearing for it. I think when I've got pressure on me I perform at my best, but tonight's game I just needed to keep it simple and bowl my best ball.
Q. We saw Kate go down in warmup. Is that hard to put to the side as a team when you see something like that?
SOPHIE ECCLESTONE: Yeah, she's gone for a scan. We'll find out later how she is. We're all not sure yet; we don't know. But yeah, it's quite sad to see -- she's a close friend to me, so it was quite sad to see her go down, but I know she'll be all right. She's a fighter, so she'll come out the other end well.
Q. Just in your own bowling, do you feel that the Australian wickets just generally suit you a little bit with that extra bounce? Is that something that plays into your hands? Is that something you also have to adjust if you're bowling, as well?
SOPHIE ECCLESTONE: Yeah, I think it obviously -- when we come to Australia few years in the Ashes, it was very batter-friendly wickets, and now to come to a pitch that has turned a little bit so it now holds, it's quite nice really, but yeah, I do love bowling Australia with the extra bounce.
Q. Semifinal will be at the SCG ground, historically favors spinners. Is that something you're looking forward to, the chance to bowl there?
SOPHIE ECCLESTONE: Yeah, I've never been to the SCG. I've seen it all on TV in the Ashes when I was younger, so it's quite nice to be able to go there and play a game there. Like I'm really excited.
Q. Sarah Glenn was saying the other day how nice it was to have you around to support her when she was kind of coming into the team. Did you say anything in particular to Mady Villiers making her World Cup debut today and how nice was it for her to take her maiden wicket?
SOPHIE ECCLESTONE: I think I didn't say anything to Mady. I think she knows she just needs to keep it simple. She's quite like me. She's quite a fiery character and she gets mad at herself too easily, and I think she just needs to keep it simple, and I told her stick to her plans and stick to her strengths, and I think she did, and with the catch, as well, I think she was really pleased.
Q. Were you surprised at how kind of quickly and easily West Indies seemed to fold?
SOPHIE ECCLESTONE: I think I was surprised. I think we needed to get them two early, like three early wickets in the powerplay, we needed to get Dottin early and Hayley Matthews early there, obviously key players for them as soon as I think we needed to stick to our plans and bowl stump to stump, which we did.
Q. You're very young, obviously, and yet you're somehow finding yourself a bit of a leader of a spin group already. Is that something you enjoy? Do you relish that, or do you sort of prefer to focus on you and what you're doing and sort of establishing yourself more, as well?
SOPHIE ECCLESTONE: I don't really see it as a leader of the group really. It's a really nice to be around and all the girls are in it together. I'm still learning after the like of Katherine on everything that they do, so I'm still learning myself.
Q. It's a bit unusual in a run chase to see so many dot balls, I think 21 in the first five overs. Was that their batting or was that your bowling?
SOPHIE ECCLESTONE: I think it reflects my bowling. We really try and get the dots up in the powerplay especially, so it's really nice to get the positives from it and get the dot balls that we deserve.
Q. Just quickly on the top order, obviously a change was made today. How have you seen the batting group going and obviously that change didn't come off tonight.
SOPHIE ECCLESTONE: Yeah, all the batters are going really well now. I mean, it was just a tactical change, and then Amy came in at six and did really well. I think everyone is just in form and everyone is happy with where we're at.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT