THE SENIOR OPEN PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 28, 2019
Paul Broadhurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How tough was that today?
PAUL BROADHURST: Yeah, pretty tough.  Pleased with how I played.  I hit a couple of poor shots, but in those conditions, everyone does, apart from Bernhard Langer I think.  He started great and he had a great round, 4-under today.  Couldn't see that out there to be honest.
Although, you know, I played pretty solid.  I had a few chances.  I just couldn't figure out the speed of the greens.  I kept leaving them in the jaws a couple inches short.  You just have to make a few putts to win those championships, and today I didn't.  I'm still proud of the way I played.
And everyone knows it's hard going out leading, but felt as though I handled it pretty well.  Hit some really good shots in pretty poor conditions.  I had a few chances coming in but just couldn't make them.
Q. You had a nice long birdie putt on 4 and 5.
PAUL BROADHURST: That was it.  One putt all day long.  It was one of those days.  Hit some good shots in, ten, 15 feet and just kept leaving them in the jaws.  I need to keep working on the putting.  It's still my Achilles' heel, I feel.  Yeah, we'll keep working on it.
To lose to Bernhard he's the king of the Senior Tour.  A little disappointed not to win but to finish second to a guy like him, pretty happy.
Q. Bernhard had six birdies out there; it's not like you lost the tournament?
PAUL BROADHURST: Yeah, I think a couple other guys shot 66 today but that was a phenomenal score.  I shot 67 today and felt that was as good as I could play in those conditions and I thought it was a little bit harder today.  The wind was a bit stronger and we had a little bit more rain, as well, certainly coming in.  66 was a hell of a score.  I'd probably have took 1-over going out, but wasn't quite enough.
Q. Coming in second, overall, a good week?
PAUL BROADHURST: Absolutely.  You try and win, but if you can't win, you try and finish second.  I've had a couple runner-up spot and a third at the PGA.  I've had a great run in the majors all year.  Had three Top-10s and an 11th position.  I've saved all my good golf for the majors, which is what you're trying to do, really.
Go home, a tinge of disappointment, but I've got to be happy, really.
Q. And this was Tom Watson's last Senior Open.  What do you think of Tom Watson?
PAUL BROADHURST: I have had the pleasure of playing with him; only time I played with him was in the horrendous weather we had in Porthcawl in 2017 and it was an absolute privilege to play with him.  He played so well in horrific conditions.  He actually said that it was the third worst -- well, easily in his top three worst conditions he's ever played, and the way he controlled the ball in the wind and the rain was unbelievable.  It was a privilege to play with him.  I'm so happy that I did actually get the chance to play with him, albeit a couple of times.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT