KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2019
Paul Broadhurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOHN DEVER: Good morning, and welcome back again to the 2019 KitchenAid Senior PGA Championship, and we are joined by our defending champion, Mr. Paul Broadhurst.  Welcome back to Rochester.  You were just here a couple months ago for media day, and while you were here, you shared with us that you had been here a few times, but you really hadn't had much of an opportunity to play the golf course.  Of course you were in a television role commentating on the 1995 Ryder Cup.  You just told me you played the course a couple times, and I'd be interested in your initial thoughts on what you see and feel out there.
PAUL BROADHURST: Well, we played it in pretty difficult conditions, especially Monday.  The wind was blowing or gusting 25, 30.  So it's difficult to learn too much about the course.  But, yeah, I mean, it's going to be a tough week, I'm sure.  The greens are firm.  Obviously you've got to hit the fairways, so it's going to be a real test, yeah.
Q. So you do seem to be rounding into form, looking at your ledger, a couple top 10s in the last three weeks or so.  Are you feeling good about your game right now?
PAUL BROADHURST: A little -- like I said, Monday, Tuesday, I struggled a little bit.  But yesterday was a lot better on the range.  The problem this season has been the putting, really.  And that's been the difference the last two weeks.
At the Legends I started to make a few putts, and that sort of carried on an at the Regions two weeks ago.  So yeah, it would be nice to see the ball fall in the hole like it did at Benton Harbor.  It's been a year now, and obviously I made loads of putts at Benton Harbor.  Probably used them all up in that one tournament for the rest of the year.  Seems that way anyway.  But the putting will be important this week.
JOHN DEVER: Okay.  We'll have some questions.
Q. Paul, after last year's incredible comeback after your first round, did you perhaps learn something new about yourself and your golf game?
PAUL BROADHURST: I probably learnt that I'm better on four rounds than three rounds.  Yeah, obviously you want to get off to a fast start, but a four-round tournament gives you that opportunity to come through the pack after not such a good first day.  Three rounds you always feel you needed to get off to a flyer because it's difficult to play catchup over two rounds.  But yeah, I seem to make a habit of starting slowly in the majors, and then having good Friday, Saturday, Sunday.  If I don't start too quickly tomorrow, then I won't be beating myself up.  Just got to stay patient, especially around a course like this.  It's set up really tough.  The patience is going to be important.
Q. And it's your second time defending a senior major championship.  Is that helpful in that you kind of know what to expect and how to approach the week?
PAUL BROADHURST: I'm not so sure.  I mean, it's a totally different venue.  If it was back at Benton harbor, I might feel a little bit different.  But like I say, it's a totally different venue.  It's probably going to play quite a little bit harder than Benton Harbor.  But nevertheless, looking forward to it.
JOHN DEVER: That said, you have defended a championship in your career before; you won the 2005 and the 2006 Portuguese Open.  Are you going to be able to draw on anything from that experience?
PAUL BROADHURST: Yeah, absolutely.  That was on two different courses as well.  It's not something I've never done before.  So, yeah, I'll take that on board, give it my best shot and hopefully get into major mode, get the concentration levels higher and go for it.
JOHN DEVER: Talk about your time last night at the champions' dinner, what your experience was like there and to share an evening with some of your friends and fellow champions.
PAUL BROADHURST: I mean, really special.  I've been worrying about it from holing the last putt last year at Benton Harbor, worrying about the speech, and the whole night, just, you know, it was a concern of mine.  I feel now I can relax and concentrate on the golf more.  Maybe that had a bearing on how poorly I played Monday and Tuesday.  Perhaps that was in the back of my mind.  No, the evening went really well.  The food was excellent, the company was great.  There was quite a few past champions there, which was really special.
Q. Do you mind sharing what the thrust of your menu was?
PAUL BROADHURST: The menu, we had deep fried brie accompanied with a crab cake, and then we had beef Wellington, roast potatoes, carrots, peas, and finished off with cherry trifle.
Q. Were there any leftovers?
PAUL BROADHURST: I think it went down pretty well.  Didn't hear too many complaints.
JOHN DEVER: Well done, on so many fronts.
Q. A lot of players have talked about how level par will be a fantastic score this week.  How does that fit your mentality as you prepare for this championship compared to a regular PGA TOUR Champions event where you have to go many under par?
PAUL BROADHURST: You're absolutely right.  I think most players would take -- I think every player would take level par.  I was chatting last night saying that maybe level 72s would be a good score.  It will be about patience.  There's not too many birdie chances out there.  Like I said, the greens are firm.  Certainly struggling to get it really close to the pin.  There's going to be a lot of 20-, 30-, 40-foot putts.  If the greens stay firm as they were yesterday and the wind blows, it's going to be a tough challenge.  Certainly level par would be an incredible score, I think.
But just stay patient.  You're going to make bogeys out there.  You've got to limit the damage because to recover and make birdies is going to be tough.  Par will be your friend this week.
JOHN DEVER: I've been asking this of a few people that have a little bit of a television background, as you do.  Maybe throw out a few names that you think their games match up well with this golf course maybe outside the top 5 or 10 players on this Tour, some people you might handicap and see some success for this week.
PAUL BROADHURST: I Jeff Maggert springs to mind.  Jeff drives it really well, hits it pretty straight.  And I think he's done well on U.S. Open courses in the past, which this is set up similar to that, similar to those events.
So that was one name that springs to mind.  I'm sure the normal suspects will be battling away, the usual suspects will be up there come Sunday.
Q. Last time you were in Rochester you had a garbage plate, your regional cuisine.  Just wanted to hear your thoughts on that.  And you were talking about food earlier, but do you plan on getting another one while you're in town?
PAUL BROADHURST: Probably not (laughing).  Couple of mouthfuls was absolutely fine.  A plateful, I'm not sure my digestive system could cope with that.  No, we have some good fun in Rochester.  The afternoon was a lot of fun, visiting various venues around the city.  So just getting the know the city and the people was really special.
Q. Going back to referring to the usual suspects, you're a two-time senior major champion.  You've won countless times on both sides of the Atlantic.  Would you regard yourself as one of the usual suspect now?
PAUL BROADHURST: You know me better than that.  There's no way I'm going to be I'll pulling -- well, I'll be pulling for myself, but I'm certainly not tipping myself.  I'll take whatever comes.
If I play well, then hopefully I'll be up there.  But I'm not going to start and make predictions about how well I'm going to do.  I'll do my best, and if that's good enough at the end of the week, then so be it.
JOHN DEVER: Best of luck this week.  Hope you enjoy your week in Rochester and out on that East Course.
PAUL BROADHURST: Thank you very much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT