U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 30, 2018
Paul Broadhurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Four birdies, three bogeys.  Sound about right?  
PAUL BROADHURST: That's about par, I think around here.  I think you need at least four birdies to break par around here.  It doesn't give you a great deal.  If you drive it well, drive it in the fairway then you've got a chance.  But if you start missing a few fairways it's really tough.   
 Q.  How did you feel about your round today and these conditions?  
PAUL BROADHURST: Anything under par around here any given day is really good.  So I'll always accept under par.  It was a better day than I had yesterday.  I struggled, got it going early on yesterday, but off the tee it didn't feel great.  Got away with one or two.  And down the straight, the driver it was awful.  I was blocking it way right.  And it was a case of just trying to get to the clubhouse to get on the practice end to try and sort it.  It was a disappointing end yesterday, but we finished strong today.  So playing the back nine in under par any day is a good round here.   
 Q.  You hung in there.  Kept fighting and plugging.  
PAUL BROADHURST: I didn't play great today.  Nothing like I played at the PGA.  But it's that sort of course.  If you let it get to you, then you're going to shoot some numbers.  I just try to be as calm as possible.  The driver behaved itself a little better today.  I missed a few, but I made a couple of nice birdies towards the end, 15, 16, I hit good shots into the green.  And making birdies on the back nine is a bonus, really.   
 Q.  Did you approach any holes differently today than you did earlier?  
PAUL BROADHURST: Not really.  No.  I played the same, pretty much the same clubs off every tee really.  Couple of holes where I made a bit of a mess, made a mess of No. 9, hit it in the front trap in two.  With a 7-iron, really you should be looking to make birdie there.  And I knew I got a lot of sand under the ball and still didn't play it very well, chunked it into the rough and made a good five in the end.  So that was poor, really.  It was a "gimmee" birdie today going in with my 7-iron but made up for it on the back nine.   
 Q.  Did the wind become a factor at all?  
PAUL BROADHURST: Not really.  We were aware of the weather in 13, 14, in that area, if we had a hooter to stop playing I wouldn't have been surprised because it felt quite close.  But the USGA assures us it was going the opposite direction and it was never nearer than eight miles.  So it was the right decision.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT