KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2018
Paul Broadhurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  6-under through your first eight what was going right for you from the start?  
PAUL BROADHURST: I'm not sure.  I hit a decent iron into the first.  Didn't hit it very close on the second, had a 30-footer down the hill.  I stiffed it at the third.  Got through the fourth, which is always tough.  Hit it close at five and six.  So I was fine, really.  Missed a chance at seven and then birdied eight from 15 feet.   
So everything was going along nicely.  But you almost, I almost started to, you're not going to keep that sort of momentum going for 18 holes and obviously the run slowed down a little bit in the middle.  Poor bogey on 12.  Bounceback birdies at 14 and 15.  Finished pretty solid over the last three.  So really pleased.   
 Q.  Winning the Senior Open in 2016, getting that senior major win, what will you pull if anything from that tomorrow as you're in contention for a major?  
PAUL BROADHURST: I really don't know.  The more you're up there, the more you're in the last two or three matches the more comfortable you feel.  Hopefully it will stand me in good stead.  What I can take from it?  I guess that I came out victorious at St. Andrews.  But there's some top players up there, obviously.  Scott's been playing really recently, Miguel won last week, so I'm going to have to come out and shoot 4-, 5-under again tomorrow.  So I'll give it my best shot and see what happens tomorrow.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
PAUL BROADHURST: I had 115 into the wind and I played it straight into the wind.  I thought I hit a perfect shot and it just drew a little bit off, obviously the wind was a fraction out of the right and it finished pin high, probably 12, 15 feet and hit a perfect putt, sort of a hole left of the hole and it broke right in the middle with nice pace and everything.  So a nice birdie.   
I'm still going to be two or three behind going into Sunday, so I guess I'm going to have to shoot another 5-, 6-under to win.   
 Q.  How will you prepare for tomorrow?  Do anything differently than you've been doing in the past?  
PAUL BROADHURST: No different at all.  I'll be here about an hour and a half, two hours before I tee off.  A bit of chipping, a bit of putting.  It doesn't take too much to warm-up anymore here.  In Europe it takes me an hour to get the bones loosened, but 20 minutes seems to do the trick at the moment.  I won't change anything.  I'll do my preparation and go to the first tee hopefully ready.   
 Q.  I guess, just comment on your play this entire week.  
PAUL BROADHURST: First day was frustrating, I didn't putt particularly well the first 11 holes and then a couple loose shots down the stretch to shoot 1-over.  I actually contacted my travel agent to see about flights on Saturday.  But yesterday was a good round to get me back into some sort of contention.  And today I went out and tried to stay within three of the lead.  Staying three behind going into Sunday should be, shouldn't be anymore than three behind, I hope, but we'll see.   
 Q.  Unique situation here, you shot 64 and I guess there's a feeling that you left a couple out there.  
PAUL BROADHURST: 12 was poor.  I don't know, I just stood over the second shot thinking I don't want to go long.  Caddie says just hit it normal and I just backed out of it, I just didn't hit it with any commitment, I was just worried that I would hit it past the pin and down the slope.  So I came out of it and blocked it right, left me no shot.  So that was disappointing.   
Good finish, 14, 15.  I guess 9 was a poor 5.  I was in good position in two, didn't play a very good pitch, left it 15, 20 feet short.  And then didn't hit it particularly close at 10 or 11, which you're only going in with wedges and sand wedges, so, yeah, that 9, 10, 11, level par's not great, but I made up for it on other holes.  14's always a tough hole and to birdie that and follow on with the one at 15.  And then you are always happy to play the last three in level par.  So I would have took level par standing on 16.  And so we'll just see, see whether there's any mess-ups by the leaders down the stretch and probably going to go out there tomorrow with two or three shot deficit, which at Carnoustie I made up four shots so you never know, you really don't know.  It's one of those courses down the stretch, you hit good shots you can make birdies, if you hit bad ones you can make doubles, simple as that.  So it's not over until the 18th around this course.   
 Q.  When are you most comfortable?  Do you prefer being ahead or are you happy chasing?  
PAUL BROADHURST: Normally you would say happy chasing, but in Europe last year I led from start to finish in back-to-back tournaments that I played.  So, yeah, I felt it a little bit when I hit the front, around the turn here.  I said, wow, I'm leading one of the biggest tournaments in the world, so, yeah, you start to feel it a little bit, but you just have to play through it and just try and rely on your swing, rely on your tempo and put some good swings on it.  But, yeah, I mean I'm chasing, so, yeah, it's a good position.  Some would argue you're better off leading, but I don't know, I'm not sure which is the best position.  I guess leading, because you're ahead of everyone.  But two behind, three behind's never a bad place.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT