THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 29, 2017
Paul Broadhurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Third round 67.  Your thoughts?  
PAUL BROADHURST: Yeah, really pleased.  Made double down the third and really thought, this could be a long day.  Quite benign conditions, so it was obvious the scoring was going to be a lot better than yesterday.   
I just got off to a slow start; whether I was a bit tired, after the exerts of yesterday's round.  It was a tough day yesterday.  But got my game going and played really well from 6 in, really.  Hit the ball really nicely.   
 Q.  Nice way to finish there, as well?  
PAUL BROADHURST: I missed one or two of those sort of eight-foot putts early on in the round and I was getting a bit frustrated, but I made one or two towards the end.  I doubt the supporters in my family will be cursing that I've missed too many.  You're not going to make all of them but nevertheless it's a bit frustrating when you do miss.   
 Q.  Give us a sense of the conditions.  
PAUL BROADHURST: The back nine is playing a lot, lot easier.  I mean, you can get through the first four in level, 1-under, then, 5, 6, 7, 8 are all accessible, and the back nine is playing a lot easier.  From 14 in, it's benign and not too much clubbing; it's lot different from yesterday.   
 Q.  Four off the lead as we speak.  Thoughts on tomorrow; can you retain that Jug?  
PAUL BROADHURST: I think I need to be within four and that's highly unlikely the way the weather is.  The guys are shooting some numbers out there at the moment.  I think Pavin is 5-under at the turn and Miguel is 7-under after 13.  There's a score to be had, and these are the top players in the world.  I'm more than likely going to be too far behind but give it my best shot tomorrow.   
 Q.  Changing of the putter, thoughts behind that?  
PAUL BROADHURST: Yeah, I changed my putter about four or five tournaments ago.  I used the same putter for seven, eight years and just finally lost patience with it.  March, April, May time I played in the States and missed everything.  Putted really poorly.   
I've gone with that one.  It feels a little bit better.  I still missed too many but make a few more than I was doing.  So it's still in the bag, so we'll persevere with it.   
 Q.  Maybe the first time you've changed it in eight years, that's quite rare, isn't it?  Because you normally hole everything.  
PAUL BROADHURST: I normally hole everything.  That's what people believe.  But people that watch me regularly will disagree with that, I'm sure.  I've always been a guy that was a good putter when I was on the main tour, but the eyesight is not as good as it used to be.  I misread an awful lot of greens.  That's the frustrating part.  You misread them, then you have no chance of holing them.  Have to put that down to old age I'm afraid.   
 Q.  Proud of yourself so far?  
PAUL BROADHURST: Like to be a few near obviously but Thursday I got off to a terrible start, 4-over after three.  I'm still 4-over, so I haven't played too badly the last 54 holes.  Take a bit of confidence from that.  Who knows what the weather holds tomorrow.  I've heard it's not particularly good so it could be another round like yesterday.  If it's like that, anything could happen.   
 Q.  Would that suit you?  
PAUL BROADHURST: Not particularly, no.  I don't mind the wind.  I don't particularly like the rain.  I was struggling for a few holes in the rain last night.  Probably saw that from one or two of the shots I hit.  But yeah, it played tough last night.  Ridiculously hard.  It can blow.  I don't mind it windy but I don't want wind and rain.  So we'll see.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT