THE SENIOR OPEN PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 27, 2019
Paul Broadhurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What did you feel like you did well out there?
PAUL BROADHURST: Patience early on.  Contrary to what everybody thinks about English people, we don't like playing in this weather, believe me.  I don't mind the wind, but the rain -- not particularly looking forward to going out there today.
But I got off to a bit of an iffy start.  Hit a couple of good shots on 4, 5, and was starting to play really good, swinging it really well.  Rhythm was good.  Kept it in play.  Gave myself chances.
Played the tough holes well.  12, the par 3, hit a great tee shot and had a couple good chances towards the end and managed to take them.  Early on it was patience.  Not trying to hit it too hard in the conditions.  Try and smooth everything.  It seemed to work.  The rhythm got -- well, it improved the rhythm and I played great the last 12 holes.
Q. Looking ahead to tomorrow, the forecast is better than today, but you know how to win this championship.  What do you feel like you need to be committed to on the final day to win this again?
PAUL BROADHURST: Same process as today, really.  Just try and be patient.  A lot will depend on -- putting is really up-and-down this season.  It was fine today.  But at times, it left me, so to me, that's the important bit.  I need to get a good rhythm on the greens.  Get the pace.  The pace was better today.  I thought the greens were a little bit quicker today.  They did seem to roll out pretty good today.  The putting was good today.  But if there's a concern, it's on the greens.
Q. How good was 67 in these conditions?
PAUL BROADHURST: Yeah, one of my better rounds in these conditions.  I'm not a great lover of the rain.  I don't mind playing in wind, but when there's a bit of a combination, the rain, as well -- I've not had too many great rounds in the rain, so that's right up there today.
I didn't start great.  I didn't really play 1, 2, 3 that well, but then I got through them 1-over, which was okay in the conditions, pretty nasty.  I made birdie on 5 and played 6 pretty well and that set me in a little bit and got the rhythm going from then on, I played really well and I played quality golf the last 12 holes.
Q. Nice to finish strong?  Great irons in on 16 and 17.
PAUL BROADHURST: Yeah, that's nice.  You don't want to be holding too many 15-, 20-footers on links golf.  You want to get as close as possible, and I did hit a good shot into 16, a couple of feet.  17, pulled it a fraction but finished four or five feet away and rolled it in.
You know, just to make par on the last, it's playing really long, the 18th.  I didn't hit a particularly good tee shot, I'm going in with full rescue from 190, so it's a bit of a beast down the last.  Overall, absolutely delighted.  Probably got a one-shot lead going into tomorrow, which is perfect.  So I need to do the business tomorrow.
Q. Do you think bad weather will suit you tomorrow as the leader?
PAUL BROADHURST: I have no idea.  You can shoot anything in that sort of weather.  A couple of loose shots, a couple of bad lies in the rough, you can run up a double easily.  I've taken nothing for granted.  Just come out here and try and find the same rhythm as I did today, one shot at a time.
You know, around here in bad weather, that's all you can do.  Looking forward to it, but under no illusions there's some great champions behind me.  I need a good one tomorrow.
Q. As a former winner, do you feel confident for tomorrow?
PAUL BROADHURST: Yeah, I've got to take some confidence out of the way I played today.  You know, if you are leading the tournament, it's the biggest tournament we play nowadays.  I'm leading and I've got to take confidence from that.
So yeah, like I say, I'm under no illusions.  It will be a tough day tomorrow, especially if it's like this, so just continue what I'm doing today.
Q. What would it mean to win an Open in England?
PAUL BROADHURST: Absolutely, I have great memories of playing here, I won the Lytham Trophy as an amateur, I won the Silver Medal in The Open the same year.  I led The Open in '96 after one, and Tom Lehman won.  I've had some really good memories at Lytham, so yeah, it would mean an awful lot.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT