U.S. SENIOR OPEN
July 1, 2017
Paul Broadhurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Moving day.  Had it going a little bit in the right direction.
PAUL BROADHURST: Didn't know whether it was going in the right direction.  I had a good chance on 14 to go 1 under for the day.  To get under 1 is a pretty good result today because it was tricky.
I missed -- just over breaking today.  A lot of putts, reading too much break in, and always missing top side, which is unusual for me.  I normally miss low side.  I think just a little bit slower than we're used to, perhaps not taking as much break as what we're reading.
No, I mean, 71 is not a disaster.  There are some tough holes out there this afternoon.  It's quite breezy.
Q. I was going to say, talk a little bit about the wind.  How much different was it?
PAUL BROADHURST: You're never sure because down the last three or four holes, you know it's at the right, but you're not sure whether there's any help there or whether it's into.  It makes picking the club really difficult.  The last hole, I hit 6 iron, knowing if I pull 5 and it's slightly downwind, it's in the grandstand over the green.  So I hit 6, it's not helping, and it comes just short.
So you know, it's one of those days, a bit of a frustrating day, tough to get near the pins.
Q. Tantalizingly tough when you know you have to hit it a shade harder than you're used to when you're going uphill, right?
PAUL BROADHURST: Absolutely.  Those uphill putts are really slow.  I mean, really slow.  I was pretty good from about eight to ten inches today, because that's where all my putts finished, eight to ten inches short.  So I was pretty good from that range.
You know, we'll give it another go tomorrow and try to shoot a low one.
Q. What's your take on Triplett and Kenny doing so well?
PAUL BROADHURST: Both big hitters, which has got to help.  It's not playing particularly long, but another 20 yards in the back, then you go in with secure clubs.  Instead of an 8 iron, you perhaps go in with a wedge, and you get more control of it.
It's definitely a course for the bigger hitter, but they're scoring unbelievably well today.  I could see it the first day and possibly yesterday, but a score like Brandt Jobe had today, 8 under, couldn't see that at all, not in the wind we played in anyway.
Q. Thanks for coming.
PAUL BROADHURST: Thanks so much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT