U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 29, 2017
Paul Broadhurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Paul, well played today, 3 under, 67.  What went right for you?  
PAUL BROADHURST: Just got off to a steady start, really.  Just made some easy pars to start with, just got into the tournament.  Picked up a birdie on, I think, 14, par 5 off of a really poor tee shot.  Actually, I hit three poor tee shots today way right and got away with them a little bit.  Cost me a bogey on No. 6, par 5.  That was the only bogey of the day.   
But other than that, I played pretty steady.  The irons were pretty good.  I had a few chances, missed a couple of putts which normally you expect to make, a couple of 4, 5-footers for birdies.  It looked like I was going to throw away a half decent round, but birdied 7 and 9.  So that was a good finish.   
 Q.  With the way the golf course is, the green confluences being so tricky, do you feel it's keeping in play is more important or once you get it offline, near the greens?  Which one is more important, do you think?  
PAUL BROADHURST: I think there's going to be some decent scores because the greens are soft.  I mean, they're softer than we played, like, on Tuesday in practice.  Actually, there was quite a firm bounce, and then it would check.  So if the greens were that firm, then they would be a lot trickier.  The guys are able to throw the ball in, and it's stopping pretty quickly.  In fact, the guys that really spin it are going to have to watch they don't spin it off the front of the green.  But, you know, while it remains fairly soft, I think the scoring is going to be pretty good.   
But the fairways are generous.  They're soft so that makes them a little bit wider.  But you get off the fairway, then you're struggling out of the rough for any sort of control.   
 Q.  Any wind of consequence out there today?  
PAUL BROADHURST: It's just picking up now, the last three holes.  Slightly different wind to practice.   
 Q.  Really?  
PAUL BROADHURST: Yeah, a little bit.  It's more -- when I practiced anyway.  I think it's turning now out the right off the 1st tee.  So that will be across on quite a few holes.  But it's nothing to speak of.  You're sheltered with a lot of the trees.  There's one or two exposed areas where it plays a little bit longer into the wind, but with the shelter of the trees, you don't really feel it.   
I should say, it's not playing too difficult if you keep it in play.   
 Q.  Standing where you are, that's a good spot?  
PAUL BROADHURST: Yeah.  I mean, I expect to be three or four behind the leaders, probably.  I always thought somebody was going to shoot 6 under, maybe 7 under, and that looks like the case.   
But you can't win it the first day, but you can lose it.  So 3 under, I'd have taken it at the start of the day.  Look forward to tomorrow now.   
 Q.  Hale Irwin is 1 over with one hole to play.  He beat his age.  He's 72.  What would you make of that?  
PAUL BROADHURST: I played nine holes with him in practice yesterday.  So, yeah, it was -- he hit one or two long clubs in.  So to get a round in 1 over for Hale, that's going some -- I mean, that's incredible.   
I was talking to Barry Lane, a European I played with yesterday.  We were saying we can't see us playing golf at 72, never mind playing on the Champions Tour at that age.  You've got to take your hats off to him.  He still hits it really well, and he's still competitive, and he's still keen, which is fantastic for a guy that's been around 50 years, probably, I would think.   
 Q.  Paul, thank you so much for your time.  
PAUL BROADHURST: Thanks.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT