THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 23, 2016
Paul Broadhurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 68 today, puts you in a good position.  You must be very pleased with yourself?
PAUL BROADHURST: Really pleased.  I sort of started the round where I left off last night.  I got off to a really good start.  Hit some quality shots.  Made a couple of putts.  Through in the customary 3-putt on No. 8, which I did, as well.  Knocked me back a little bit.
But made a good save 10 and a couple of good birdies at 11, 12 and a good save down the last.  That was important not to drop a shot at the last.
Q. How important was the save at the last?
PAUL BROADHURST: You don't really want to finish with a bogey.  It's nice to have dinner on a high rather than a bit of a low.  It was important.  I hit a poor tee shot, having waited on the tee quite a long time.  All I could do was chop it out of the rubbish, back into play.  Sand wedge, make par.  Made a nice 8-footer to finish.
Q. Miguel, as you see, is leading at the moment.  He'll be a hard man to catch.
PAUL BROADHURST: Yeah, he's played lovely.  I've hit some good shots but then he's followed and hit it beside me.  Yeah, I've been keeping my eye on his game all the way around, really.
Yeah, he's going to be the man to beat I think.  Sounds like he just hit a good one shot into 18, make par or birdie and probably have a two- or three-shot lead I would think.
Who knows, the last day, I don't think he's ever won a major.  I'm sure he'll be as nervous as anyone.  I'll just concentrate on my own game, try and put a number on the board and see what happens.
Q. Supposed to rain tomorrow --
PAUL BROADHURST: I'm not keen on the waterproof jacket.  If I can get away with it, a sleeveless, then I'll be wearing that and I'll just get wet.  We'll see.  In Scotland, who knows, the weather can change just like that.  Fingers crossed; it might be a bit better than you say.
Q. You waited a long time to get into this event.  Feels good, a nice feel to it, isn't it?
PAUL BROADHURST: Yeah, I've enjoyed myself since I joined the Senior Tour.  I had three years of playing Pro-Ams and stuff just to keep the game in some sort of shape.
This is where you want to be playing.  Carnoustie is one of my favourite links courses, my best finish in The Open.  When I heard it was my sort of debut in the Senior Open, I was relishing it.  So far it's been pretty good.  Try and finish it off tomorrow.
Q. Talking about debuts in Scotland, you know what happened the last time you made your debut in Scotland last August.  Your first seniors event, your first start.
PAUL BROADHURST: Correct.
Q. And this is your first start in the Senior Open.  Maybe can history repeat itself.
PAUL BROADHURST: You never know.  If I can go out and shoot 66, 67 tomorrow, that might have a chance.  But it will take a low score I think.  Obviously depending on the weather.  If the weather is bad tomorrow, then 74, 75, not a half decent score.  We'll just see what the weather brings.
Q. You'll be out of Miguel whatever happens, so it's up to you to post a total to make it hard for him.
PAUL BROADHURST: Absolutely.  I was doing that going around and he was matching me and doing better.  But no, I enjoyed the day today.  Enjoyed yesterday and I was pleased that I followed a really good score with a good score today.
Q. Shooting 30 on the back nine at Carnoustie, if anything's going to put you back in the picture, it's what you did yesterday.
PAUL BROADHURST: I was genuinely thinking about making the cut.  I thought 12 and 14 are important holes, the par 5, to make the cut.  But it's a strange thing, golf.  You tend to score your best when you are least expecting it.  It is a strange, strange game.  I enjoyed it so far.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT