SAAB WALES OPEN
June 2, 2011
Paul Broadhurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Was it phenomenal?   
 PAUL BROADHURST: One or two pitch shots were phenomenal, yeah. Obviously I've played better this year than I've done today, but I shot 2- or 3-over. Obviously 5-under, I'll take it any day around here. Best score by a long way around this course.   
 I hit some good shots obviously. You can't shoot 66 without hitting good shots. I hit one or two poor ones, missed a couple of greens in really tricky positions and sand wedge on 5, I played a couple of great pitch shots. You miss it left at 17, you're dead normally and I played some shot that was some sort of miracle and got it to about six feet and made it for par. Those are the sort of shots that just kept me going on. Good finish, job well done.   
  
  Q. Which is vintage Paul Broadhurst.   
 PAUL BROADHURST: It's about time. The long game, driving, I didn't feel brilliant today. Didn't drive it fantastic. There was nothing that was off the planet or in any real trouble, but I wasn't really striking it well. Caddie said, just get it in play, get it on the fairway and you can make a score. That's what we did. I think for my own satisfaction, I need to hit it a little bit better, and you know, we are quite happy.   
  
  Q. You say lowest by a long shot, what was it before?  
 PAUL BROADHURST: I have no idea. Might be 1-under or something. I've never done particularly well around this course. I like the place, but I don't know, I just never it got on well with this golf course. I've done well on the Roman Road, three Top-10s and finished second around there, and it's just a bit fiddling this course. This is a bit more of a crusher's track here and it obviously plays long but doesn't necessarily suit me. But today it did.   
  
  Q. The weather makes a difference for all of us, presumably it makes a difference when you're playing, a bit more travel on the fairways and all?  
 PAUL BROADHURST: Yeah, I think in the afternoon, the ball goes a bit further. That's the tee time, obviously you get the greens at their very worse and the last few holes they were a bit bobbly.   
 But you've got the heat of the day, so the ball is going a bit further. If you tee off really early, you get the best of the greens, but the ball is not travelling so far, and the course will play really long.   
  
  Q. Already had conversations about the state of your career at the moment with entries into events.   
 PAUL BROADHURST: It's in a bit of a state to be honest. State is probably the correct word.   
 You know, I've got no illusions of thinking about winning this week. Just go from day-to-day, that's all I can do. I played pretty good last week at Wentworth. I had a 69 on the Friday and shot 81 on Sunday and didn't feel as though I did anything too much different. That's the state my game is in at the moment. Confidence is fragile to say the least.  
 More are days like this are required. One day at a time. I'm not making any predictions. I have no idea what I'm going to shoot tomorrow. Could be a 66 or 76, I don't know. Just one shot at a time.   
  
  Q. But at least more days like this put you in the shot window for invitations?  
 PAUL BROADHURST: Yeah, exactly. I've got to make use of the invites. If I keep playing poorly, then sponsors are not going to ask me to play, simple as that. Your name only lasts so long out here obviously, and my only Ryder Cup year was 20 years ago, so it's up to me to make the most of invites and get on the leaderboard.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT