QUINN INSURANCE BRITISH MASTERS
September 25, 2008
Paul Broadhurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PAUL BROADHURST: Driving it all over the place, I hit three decent drives all day. Just felt a little bit lucky that things went my way. Chipped in on one hole. Made one or two good putts for birdies. But driving was awful. So I need to sort that out.

 Q. You didn't think you were off to the best of starts, did you?
 PAUL BROADHURST: No, I hit a couple drives early on, a shocker off the first, and probably the best drive I hit all day was down the second shape-wise and holed it. But driver off 3 and 4 was awful. 5,6 was all right. 8 was okay. 9 went left. 11 was left. 13 was all right. 15 was left. And then 16 was right. So I didn't really know which way it was going, left or right. 
 Just finished with an awful second shot on the last. Short game was all right apart from the chip at 16. That was a tough shot. Plenty to work on. Pleased with the score but now how I played.

 Q. The delay on 2, upset the rhythm a bit?
 PAUL BROADHURST: Not at all. I don't got rhythm at the moment. Might do me some good just to slow down. 
 70 around here any day is good. Just not happy with how I'm swinging it. I mean, 70 around here, any day, you've got to be happy. If I shoot four 70s, I'll be quite happy with my check at the end of the week. I might even win it. Delighted with the score but a lot of hard work to do and a lot of work to do tomorrow.

 Q. How is the course playing? 
 PAUL BROADHURST: The course is great. Greens are as good as we play, really, really good. You know, there's nothing that we can do about the fairways. The fairways are fine, but suffered after the rain we had a couple of weeks ago. Surprised it's not wetter than it actually is. We know the fairways don't really drain, but this time of year, you never know. It was picking up mud, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday in practice. 

 Q. Pleased that when you got in trouble, you were able to dig yourself out? 
 PAUL BROADHURST: That's the way I've been playing all my life. Never get ahead of myself. Even if I'm doing well in a tournament, you know, if I make a mess of it, I can make a mess of it and get around any time. I don't have to be under pressure. Never get ahead of myself. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT