JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 28, 2008
Paul Broadhurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tell us how well done, given the start and the wonderful finish? 
 PAUL BROADHURST: Yeah, the front nine is always difficult. Holes 3, 4, 5, they give nothing away there. I hit a great drive off the first and a shocking second shot, 9-iron into the right trap and made bogey from nowhere. Should have been looking at birdie. 
 Not a great start around here, so knuckle down and try to make the best of it, simple as that on a day like today. I made a good birdie on No. 5 which got me back into it at 1-over and then you have a run of five or six holes downwind, so you hope to pick up a few birdies on that stretch. I did, I birdied 7 and birdied 9, and birdied 12, as well. 
 So, you know, I was on a bit of a run there. 

 Q. You mentioned the wind a couple of times, and seeing what the rough is like here as well, you didn't want to be in that. 
 PAUL BROADHURST: Yeah, I drove the ball really well today. I only missed two fairways. One was with the 3-wood and the rest of the time I was hitting driver to the middle of the fairway which was nice. You have to do that around here especially on a day like today. 
 It's going to get tricky this afternoon. The greens are so soft; the greens, they are a great surface, but with footprints, there will be a lot of missed putts this afternoon. We'll see what happens.

 Q. I heard you saying to TV that you modified your swing a little bit today?
 PAUL BROADHURST: I've been working on it for four or five weeks now and it's getting better. We just tried exaggerating something today and just said we'll give it a go and see what happens. Could have been 85. But you see good shots with it, and you start to believe in it. 

 Q. Takes courage to take it out on to the course like that. 
 PAUL BROADHURST: Yeah, it was good because it was going well. Not sure what I would do if it was going badly but fingers crossed and that won't happen and a good week this week.

 Q. A little bit of a tangent, clearly we are all talking about Ryder Cup this week and last week; are you involved in it anyway getting in? 
 PAUL BROADHURST: Absolutely nothing, no. I mean, of course I'm interested, but I've got no interest in it personally, so I can just relax this week and watch how it unfolds. 

 Q. But do you enjoy the intrigue and chatting to colleagues? 
 PAUL BROADHURST: Yeah, a little bit. It's a tough pick this year really. There's probably five or six candidates worth a place, so it's not a position I'd like to be in myself. 

 Q. You wouldn't select two that you particularly think should be above the others? 
 PAUL BROADHURST: Not really, no. Darren's won last week, but Paul Casey had a good week; Poulter was second in the British Open; Monty has a great record in The Ryder Cup. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT