BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2007
Paul Broadhurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MICHAEL GIBBONS:  Paul, thanks for coming in again.  Pretty good finish and turned a pretty good round into a very good round, would that be fair? 
 PAUL BROADHURST:  Dropped a shot at the first, what I thought was a really good drive from just over the end, about six inches off the fairway, buried it.  Couldn't get it on the green with the poor chip and opened with a bogey.  After that, played really, really solid.  Drove it probably as good as I've ever driven it today.  Put myself in good position on pretty much every hole.  Missed quite a few chances.  Played really solid tee-to-green. 
 Not looking forward to the rain, but have to take conditions as they come. 

 Q.  Would you regard yourself as a decent wind and rain player? 
 PAUL BROADHURST:  Wind, definitely, yeah.  Not bothered about the wind.  I'm not keen on the rain.  So we'll see what happens tomorrow.  I'm hoping that the weather forecast changes overnight.  I don't mind the wind but the rain -- I've had good round in the rain, I've had bad rounds.  We'll see. 

 Q.  When is the last time you drove it as well as you did today? 
 PAUL BROADHURST:  No, I can't remember.  I drove it really, really solid today.  Just worked on a few things after the first day.  There were signs the first round that I was getting a bit better but yesterday I played well tee-to-green, much better and putted awful.  I had 21 putts the first day, it was a little bit of a shock to putt so badly, and today I didn't hole that much.  I had a nice one at 16, but other than that, missed quite a few chances and through in a 3-putt on No. 10 as well. 

 Q.  Was driving the problem last week for you? 
 PAUL BROADHURST:  I suppose so.  I hardly hit the fairway last week.  It was tough, and, you know, massive change to this week and starting to pay dividends.  Starting to hit the ball well again. 

 Q.  Your previous wins, based on that, would you rather go into tomorrow in the lead or just one off so that you can make a bit of a charge? 
 PAUL BROADHURST:  I've done it from the front and it's not going to bother me in any way.  Sometimes it's easier if you're in front of the last group and put the score on the board.  Doesn't look like that's likely to happen.  If I'm in the lead, great. 

 Q.  What change did you make? 
 PAUL BROADHURST:  I just went back a few.  We all -- I've always worked on certain things.  It's just when my right foot moves into the ball.  I sort of dismiss that a little bit and went looking for a moral to that swing and it hasn't been working.  So we've just gone back to the way my right foot's been working, and that helps me swing on the club on the right arm. 

 Q.  It would be a double for Bob Torrance, Padraig and then you? 
 PAUL BROADHURST:  Yeah, it would be a miracle if I win after last week. 

 Q.  Last week, you described it as a horror show, if somebody said you would be leading going into the final round, would you think they would be smoking something funny? 
 PAUL BROADHURST:  Probably, but know my game better than anybody, it's peaks and troughs.  You just have to try and forget the week before and come in and do your best.  So far I've turned it around from last Sunday -- sorry, last Friday.  (Laughter) I did play last Sunday; it was awful. 
 No, you know, I've just hit the ball, every day, it's got better and better the long game and the putting has gotten worse and worse. 

 Q.  What were your expectations at start of the week? 
 PAUL BROADHURST:  Probably to make the cut.  I don't know where I am in the Order of Merit, I haven't looked at the moment.  I know I'm in the 100s somewhere.  Probably my idea was to make the cut and see what happens.  But you open with a 66 you have to set your sights a little bit higher than that.  Take a 68 tomorrow. 

 Q.  You've done this so many times before -- 
 PAUL BROADHURST:  Talk to John Pace about that. 

 Q.  After just missing out on the Ryder Cup last year, has that driven you on in terms of motivation this season? 
 PAUL BROADHURST:  Not so much motivation.  It was the reason I went looking for perhaps a stronger method after just missing out and playing poorly the last five or six weeks of the qualifying.  Perhaps that was a mistake.  I played poorly most of the year.  Just haven't found any sort of consistency whatsoever. 

 Q.  Has this been a moment this week where you suddenly thought -- accepting that you're kind of trying to rediscover old form ask technique if you like but has there been a "eureka" moment? 
 PAUL BROADHURST:  Not yet, no.  Hopefully that will come tomorrow. 

 Q.  Something that's just given you that confidence to build on the first round? 
 PAUL BROADHURST:  Perhaps the second shot into 12 both days yesterday and today, I had 230 to the middle of the green and set up easy birdie chances, and it's just shots like that you have to pull on really.  I played down the straight today as good of golf as I played really.  I missed the green on 13, poor iron shot, but 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 was good enough to play those holes really. 

 Q.  You said you thought 68? 
 PAUL BROADHURST:  Yeah, with the forecast, I would think I would have every chance. 

 Q.  What typically do you do before a final round? 
 PAUL BROADHURST:  I'll start practise about an hour and a half before.  Half an hour on the putting green, a few chips, half an hour on the range, same routine really. 
 I'm staying with my brother and sister about 40 minutes away, and I have three of my four children down, so we'll just have a meal tonight. 

 Q.  All low-key, though? 
 PAUL BROADHURST:  Oh, yeah, absolutely.  That's me all over. 

 Q.  You've been through a lot the last four years and we all know what you've been through, losing your card, winning, what's the difference between the Paul Broadhurst then and Paul Broadhurst now? 
 PAUL BROADHURST:  Pretty similar up to this week, I was playing about the same sort of standard.  No, obviously back then I was not confident at all.  I've got no game to fall back on.  When things starting to wrong, I've got no confidence anyway to fall back on. 
 Now, you know, I've played pretty well for two, three years, all be it the last three or four months -- certainly fall back on a few and my performance when I've been in contention, I've normally stuck around. 

 Q.  You said you wanted to find a stronger method after the end of last year.  What did you do to try and find that stronger method and are you halfway through that? 
 PAUL BROADHURST:  I've worked with Bob Torrance.  He's always said there's a certain move that I don't do in my game and we've just been trying to do that particular move, get more weight going forward onto my left side but it hasn't been that successful.  I haven't felt comfortable with it. 
 But we decided, or I decided early in the week, that I wanted to forget all about that and go back to what I was working on previously.  He's been quite good about that, accepted it, and helped me modify what I've done in the past. 

 Q.  So far this week, the last couple of days have been built up as the battle of the young Englishmen -- 
 PAUL BROADHURST:  Nothing to do with me.  That's all you. 

 Q.  What's it like to look at all these youngsters and think, "I'm on the top at the moment?" 
 PAUL BROADHURST:  I don't think about it.  I know if I play well, I can still compete, simple as that.  I don't look at, you know, anybody's age or anything like that. 

 Q.  Did you pick up the papers on Friday hoping to read all about you and didn't? 
 PAUL BROADHURST:  Yeah. 

 Q.  Truthfully? 
 PAUL BROADHURST:  Yeah, absolutely.  A few text messages from a few people, a few mates.  I got a couple of lines in a few papers, I thought that was pretty good. 

 Q.  Local ones. 
 PAUL BROADHURST:  Yeah, probably. 

 Q.  Would you take us through your finish? 
 PAUL BROADHURST:  14, I hit 6-iron on the green, got off the hill 30 feet and 2-putt. 
 15, great drive, hit 5-iron to ten feet and missed the putt. 
 16, rescue off the tee, 9-iron to 20 feet, holed the putt across the green. 
 Great drive down 17.  Hit rescue a yard or two short of the green, 2-putted from there. 
 Last I hit perfect drive, 3-iron through the back of the green in the back trap, pitched it out a couple of feet. 

 Q.  What length was the 3-iron? 
 PAUL BROADHURST:  About 240. 

 Q.  Are you aware of the bonus if Padraig wins? 
 PAUL BROADHURST:  Not sure where he is, fell off the leaderboard.  Yeah, I was aware of that.  I thought he was one of the favourites, him and Cabrera I thought. 

 Q.  Tough to back it up -- (question muffled.) 
 PAUL BROADHURST:  Yeah, the top boys don't seem to bother them, it's the likes of me that seem to go up and down.  The top boys go win, second, win, second.  It wouldn't have been any great shock for him to have won again. 

 Q.  What would it mean for you to be sitting here tomorrow with that trophy? 
 PAUL BROADHURST:  I'm not sure.  I'll worry about it.  I'm not even thinking about.  I'll worry about tomorrow. 

 Q.  People talk about how tricky the greens are at this time of the year. 
 PAUL BROADHURST:  Absolutely.  A mind of their own, some of them.  Yeah, really, really tough to read.  You've got to hit a really positive STROKE to hole them.  Anything that's Slightly miss-hit or not running to the hole you're going to miss it, going into the rough the left or the right. 

 Q.  Excuse me if you've already answered these, what would it mean to you to win this tournament? 
 PAUL BROADHURST:  No, I wouldn't even give it a thought.  We only finished the round ten minutes ago and I've been leading all the way around so just played my own game.  Just have to do the same tomorrow.  Yeah, I've won six times on Tour but nothing anywhere as prestigious as this event.  So it would be a massive tournament to win. 

 Q.  You were saying you have three of the four kids down with you, will they be here tomorrow? 
 PAUL BROADHURST:  Yes.  They were here today, too.  Mom is here, too, in the crèche and walking around. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT