BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2007
Paul Broadhurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  You held what you had. How were the conditions today?   
 PAUL BROADHURST:  It was tougher.  The course played harder.  I mean, it's not windy, but any sort breeze around here makes it tricky and pulling the right clubs was not easy, and it's getting firmer, as well.  I felt as though I hit the ball a lot better today.  The putting was awful today.  I didn't feel happy on the greens.  I was lucky yesterday going out early and getting the greens in perfect condition.  They weren't quite so perfect today.  And my stroke wasn't quite so good, either.  But you know, overall, 72 is okay.   
  
  Q.  Presumably a satisfaction that every time it slipped, you pulled it right back and you haven't lost any ground, really.   
 PAUL BROADHURST:  When I dropped a shot it was from close range really.  I took 3 from the edge of the green at No. 3.  I was only 20 feet and ran it six, eight feet past it and missed it coming back.   
 Then on the next bogey, I was on 11, I hit a good tee shot, missed a pitch right by the flag, bounced in the back, had a clumsy pitch shot, 6-foot putt and missed that.   
 I drove it in the trap on 13.  I played a good third shot to six feet and missed that.  There the bogeys that perhaps shouldn't have been.   
 Felt as though I hit the ball better.  Worked hard on it yesterday with Bob Torrance, did feel better off the tee, hit a lot more fairways.  Didn't really drive it in too much trouble.  Put it in the trap at 13 like I said but those things happen.   
 If you get it on the fairway, you should do okay here.   
  
  Q.  And come what may, a good position to attack for the weekend?   
 PAUL BROADHURST:  Yeah, I'll just play my normal game, try to get it in play, try to make a few putts and see what happens on the weekend.  The leaderboard is stacking up with some high quality names.  You know, I just have to play well on the weekend.   
  
  Q.  Do you enjoy playing amongst those high-quality names?  You are one yourself.   
 PAUL BROADHURST:  Thanks very much.  I've got to prove that to myself again.  Perhaps last year I was starting to get it there, but form dropped away and this year I've dropped down the World Rankings.  A good weekend here and you know, I'm moving back in the right direction.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT