BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
September 2, 2006
Paul Broadhurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What other superstitions do you have?
PAUL BROADHURST:  Not superstition, just feel, when I warm up, I have to putt one on when it rains or get cold.  No, I've always done that.
Q.  Does two 66s have a chance?
PAUL BROADHURST:  Yeah, played pretty good, started with a 3 putt, didn't get off to the best of starts and a couple of birdies.  Got into it a little bit, I had a few chances, took a chance at six, went to the green out of the rough.  Put it in the water and then had a good putt.  I had chances but all tricky putts, downhill putts or, you know just off    I missed a lot of greens by a foot today because I was going at the flags.

I missed a few chances, left a few out there but 5 under, can't really complain.
Q.  Still in with a chance?
PAUL BROADHURST:  Yeah, at least I'm hitting it better.  Starting to feel a bit more light.  So yeah, you know, 63 is on there.  You've just got to play well and putt well.  You just need to get on a good run.  I had a few chances.  But just off the fringe 15 feet, you know, a bit trickier than on the green 20 feet I suppose.
Q.  Are you enjoying having the target Ryder Cup?
PAUL BROADHURST:  Well, it's giving you something to write about    would be a boring afternoon, wouldn't it?

Edfors is going to have a run at it, that's about it.  There's nobody else is there.

Getting to four, five, six, just trying to keep it going, but the better you do, the more pressure's on.  There's no pressure while you're six shots away.  No idea what will happen this afternoon.  Might still find myself ten behind by the end of the day, I don't know.  I would have liked to have shot 65.  67 is not terrible, and 63 tomorrow, you never know.
Q.  How much is it on your mind?
PAUL BROADHURST:  To be honest, this week's really the first time it's been on my mind.  I've been playing not poorly    I've been more concerned with how I've been playing.  If it were not for Ryder Cup, I wouldn't be playing anyway.  Not thinking about Ryder Cup, thinking about how I'm going to get it around the golf course the past few weeks.  It's been a struggle.  Just lost it in the Open, although I shot 3 under on the back nine, I just couldn't find it.
Q.  Have you spoken to Woosie?
PAUL BROADHURST:  Played with him in Holland, I didn't see much of him, I was in the bushes all the way around.  No, not really.  I haven't seen him this week.

I think just sort of do my own thing.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT