THE SENIOR OPEN PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 25, 2019
Paul Broadhurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. All the leaders including yourself at 3-under came back out after the delay.  Was the golf course a little softer?
PAUL BROADHURST: It was definitely a little softer but the back nine was into the wind.  The winds really switched around when we got to about No. 8.  Teed off eight downwind and then it went full circle.  Back nine was tough, but shot 3-under around the back, so I'm really happy.
Q. What did you do well?
PAUL BROADHURST: Scrambled early.  I mean, I was in so many bunkers down the first three holes and got away with a few poor shots, and birdied 4.  Made a total mess of No. 7, the par 5, stupid 6.
I didn't think I did anything particularly well.  It wasn't a round where I felt totally in control.  I wasn't flushing every shot.
Conditions, it's not too windy, but it's windy enough.  It's a tough course a little so you have to play well and I kept it in play off the tee I guess.  I didn't hit too many poor tee shots.  They are all within play, got a chance of getting it on the green, and I guess I took advantage of the short holes well and hit wedges.
13, I made two, holed from 88 yards, which always helps the score.
Q. A round of 67.  Happy with that round?
PAUL BROADHURST: Absolutely.  I'd have taken that when I started.  Took seven and a quarter hours to complete, so it's been a long day.  I'm so pleased we got finished.  I didn't think we would complete the 18th, and wasn't looking forward to going out at 7 in the morning to play one hole.  Pleased we got it finished.
Q. You're in good position, so you must be satisfied?
PAUL BROADHURST: Absolutely.  The best position to be in is leading, albeit tied.  I haven't really started too many tournaments really well this season.  I've been shooting 1-overs and then having to make up ground on the second or third round.  To get off to a good start is a nice bonus.
Q. And you had a nice eagle?
PAUL BROADHURST: Yeah, sand wedges were good today.  Shorter holes where I was hitting wedge and sand wedge and made birdie or eagle, that was nice.  Doesn't always happen, so yeah, to hole an 88-yard shot was special.  My son's following me around and he keeps telling me I need a chip-in.  I don't know whether that counts as a chip-in or not.  It was a long chip-in.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT