KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2019
Paul Broadhurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOHN DEVER: Good afternoon again and welcome back to the 2019 KitchenAid Senior PGA Championship.  Pleased to be joined by Paul Broadhurst.  Paul put up a 75 today, finished in third place with a four-day total of 279.
Paul, I think if you look up in the dictionary the definition of a valiant title defense, I think we'd see a picture of what happened here this week.  But your game just wasn't maybe as crisp as it was the last couple days.  Is that the case?
PAUL BROADHURST: I guess so.  I played well the front nine, hit some really good shots in.  5, 6, 7, 8, 9.  And I knew I was struggling on the greens, didn't feel good.  I was quite negative on the greens.  And that cost me really today.
A poor drive off 16, granted, but if I would have made a few putts when it really mattered, I probably would have been quite a few clear.
Hats off to Ken.  It played really good today.  Real good score today under the conditions.  Played really tough.  The guys had it easy the first two days, the easy half of the draw.  The course showed its teeth this afternoon.  It was a tough test with the wind.  What'd Ken shoot, 1-under?
JOHN DEVER: Ken was a level.
PAUL BROADHURST: Level par.  Anything around par was a good score.  Congrats to Ken.
JOHN DEVER: Maybe just go through the 18th hole.  You know you need to gain a stroke there and how you played it and that second shot.
PAUL BROADHURST: Yeah, we knew Ken was in trouble, but then we saw him hole the putt for par.  So we got to make birdie.  It's a bit of a hanging lie, awkward distance as well, I was right between a big 6 and a real soft 5.  In those conditions you don't -- it's sometimes hard to hit soft shot.  I tried to hit a soft 5, just pushed it right.  Didn't hit too bad putt but the 2, 3-footer afterwards was a pretty poor effort and that sort of summed up the putting display all day really.
Q. Paul, obviously the turning point was 16.  You pushed it right.  And then take us through -- it looked like the ball was not in a good lie.  And were there other problems at 16 there?
PAUL BROADHURST: There's a phone that went off, some music was playing.  It was before I hit the shot, it wasn't like I was over the ball or anything.  So I'm not going to use that as an excuse.  That was probably -- if I could say I made a bad decision, it was perhaps the second shot there.
It sat in the rough.  The shot was there, but I'd have to cut a 7-iron off the left trap and out of the thick stuff, sometimes difficult to cut it.  And it came out left.  It left me no shot, even with a good lie.  And I got an absolute shock.  The ball was buried.  Of course it came out hot over the green.  Cost me a 6 in the end.  I actually hit a good putt there.  I thought I made the putt, but it wiggled off to the right.
Hit the tree down 17 off the tee and shot deep into trouble, but made a great miracle escape with a 4, I holed a good putt, one of the few putts I holed all day.
18, you saw, I missed the 2 and a half 3 footer at the end.  So annoyed because I kept looking at it and thinking it's inside left, and I hit it -- well, I pushed it right and it took the break as well.  Just a poor putt to finish.
Q. All week long you said that playing bogey-free is kind of unbelievable, but the time to take your first double bogey couldn't have been -- you were going to make bogeys today, but to take that double at that point?
PAUL BROADHURST: Yeah.  I saw Ken made birdie down 16 to go 4-under.  So I thought I had to play the shot really.  I guess in hindsight I could have chipped it out, possibly chipped it on and holed the putt for par maybe.
The shot was there to be -- if I was a good cutter of the ball, I would have played it.  If Scott McCarron was playing, he'd have knocked it on the green.  Paul Broadhurst sometimes struggles to cut it, and, yeah, I came out left.
Q. I've just had a quick look.  I think in the last 10 years only three players have defended a senior major championship.  It just goes to show how tough it can be on out there on the final day.
PAUL BROADHURST: I knew it was going to be tough.  It's a tough course any day of the week.  You can shoot 75 anytime around there.  A lead in a major, I knew it was going to be a tough day.  This is a really tough course to be out there leading for a long period of time.
And there's not many birdie chances, and the chances I had, I didn't take.  And that was probably where the damage was done.  Although I made double at 16, obviously.
But I felt that -- it didn't slip away, really, but I could have built up a pretty commanding lead, those five holes 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 -- maybe not on 6, I three-putted 6.  So I gifted one away there.  But 5, 7, 8, 9, I really got opportunity for birdies, 15 feet in and didn't make one of them.  That was where I could have built a nice comfortable lead and made it a comfortable back nine.
Q. Just on Ken winning today, can you relate to him and how his non-PGA TOUR background --
PAUL BROADHURST: I'm so pleased for him.  He's a cracking guy.  I mean, he's a lovely guy to play with.  He's a great guy off the course.  I'm really pleased for him.  He's done really well since he came out here on Tour.  And for him to win a major, I'm sure he'll have a really good evening.
JOHN DEVER: Paul, thanks for your time, and we appreciate all your cooperation the last year.
PAUL BROADHURST: Thanks so much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT