KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2019
Paul Broadhurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Curtis Strange won an open here, parred just about every hole (indiscernible) the fourth round.  You birdied the first hole and parred everything else?   
PAUL BROADHURST: Parred everything else and made a fortunate chip in on 7.   
 Q.  I mean, at this place to have that type of consistency all day, that's kind of rare.  
PAUL BROADHURST: Yeah, yeah, I mean, to be bogey free around this course is, yeah, absolutely delightful.  And said all along that (indiscernible) no, no, no, do better than that.  But, I mean, we were lucky.  Half the draw got it really easy because it's never going to play that easy again.  3-under lead is so -- and if we get any sort of wind, level par will be (indiscernible).   
 Q.  So you look (indiscernible)?  
PAUL BROADHURST: Absolutely.  I've had enough bad breaks over the years.  Absolutely.  The guys on my side of the draw (indiscernible) and the weather.  Unfortunate for the guys on the opposite side.  But sometimes that's the way golf is.   
 Q.  What can you draw from the experience from what happened last year and your other, you know, major championship experience, going into the final weekend, being in this position?  
PAUL BROADHURST: I can I draw a lot.  Last year was a little bit different, obviously I didn't take the lead until about the 13th, 14th, so playing my way through the field there.  It's always nice to lead a tournament whenever.   
Two rounds to go.  Not sort of jumping the gun or looking ahead too much.  I just try and play consistently like I have the last two days.  Keep the mistakes down to a minimum.   
I haven't holed that many putts this week, I've hit it to the center of the green a lot of the time, a lot of 20-, 25-, 30-foot putts.  I've just been really careful.  Just keep making pars.  And if you get the odd chance, 6, 8, whatever, and try and make it, and anything under par into the weekend will be good a really good effort.   
 Q.  Two birdies (indiscernible)?  
PAUL BROADHURST: 10 absolutely killed a drive.  What'd I hit?  (Indiscernible) I think I 56 (indiscernible) 110 maybe, something like that.  Hit a really good shot into -- again, really took the course straight down the hill (indiscernible).  And then I hit a really good tee shot into 11, 6-iron (indiscernible) 12, 15 feet behind the pin.   
 Q.  What happened on 7?  
PAUL BROADHURST: 7 I thought I hit a really good shot and apparently (indiscernible) downslope, on the edge of the green, and shot it through the back.  I was really fortunate (indiscernible) going 10, 12, 15 feet by and hit the flag right and dropped.  Just fortunate that I played solidly all week or all day today and the putts (indiscernible).   
 Q.  Heard you say earlier in the week when you were talking about your practice rounds you weren't too keen on the way you were playing.  
PAUL BROADHURST: (Indiscernible) I was struggling.  I didn't play well in the wind at all.  Particularly (indiscernible) on the range this morning, but got up on the 10th tee and absolutely roasted it down there.  Probably my best drive and the longest drive I hit all week (indiscernible) a little bit and (indiscernible).  Try not to pay too much attention to how I hit it on the range.  I've had days where I've not missed a shot on the range, got to the first tee and hit it in the trees.  So, you know (indiscernible).   
 Q.  Is there usually one particular shot that might kick start a round for you to drive or (indiscernible)?  
PAUL BROADHURST: I guess I feel it -- if I can feel as I'm turning through it and the ball is not going left, then that's a great feeling for me to have.  When I'm still (indiscernible) to feel as I'm turning through it and the ball goes left, so, you know, that's the bad shot, I guess (indiscernible).  But I drove it well today.  I'm hitting as many fairways (indiscernible) all the way around.  It's a (indiscernible) stress-free round today (indiscernible) on the course like this.  So I'm happy.  I'll take the score today.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) attended Senior PGA on a Friday here.  The (indiscernible) remarked on the crowd and just the atmosphere here.  How has that been?  
PAUL BROADHURST: It's been great.  It's helps playing with Bernhard Langer.  You always think a good crowd comes in to watch him play.  He'll be the first to admit he didn't have his best day today.  But don't count him out.  He's more than capable to shoot a couple 4-unders around here.  (Indiscernible) over the weekend.  It's always great to play with Bernhard.  (Indiscernible) shots as he did over the first few days.  But don't count him out by any means.   
 Q.  What's for dinner?  
PAUL BROADHURST: Ask my wife (laughter).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT