KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2019
Paul Broadhurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You said yesterday that four 72s would be great.  So 70 is rather good.
PAUL BROADHURST: I still think level would win it.  Quite easily.  I really do.  I still.  I haven't changed my mind on level par would have every chance of winning it.  It's not going to play any easier than that.  It's as easy as it's going play.  So the guys just have to (indiscernible).  So, yeah, if you play (indiscernible).
Q. (Indiscernible) confidence finishing with two pars.
PAUL BROADHURST: Yeah, I didn't drive it out really well (indiscernible) been great all season, and then last tournament we played, Regions, didn't drive it that good.  It was in the fairway, it was a poor spot, just not as confident over the driver as I have been.  And early on it was fine, and I came back out and (indiscernible) straightaway down the left side, took three putts and 10 yards short of the green.
So, yeah, it's close.  It's close.  But it's not quite in the groove.  But a bit of work and see what happens tomorrow.  Level par (indiscernible) level par is not -- you know, I think anybody would take level pars (indiscernible).
Q. The delay, how did that affect you?
PAUL BROADHURST: It was a bit of a (indiscernible) we practiced, still started (indiscernible) enough to go back out (indiscernible) oh, my, God.  But while we were practicing, there was thunder going on right above us, and we're like (indiscernible).  So, I mean, it does stop momentum, obviously.  I was hitting it decent down the back nine before the delay.  I just hit a good tee shot on 13 and (indiscernible) 14.  But I went back out, hit a good shot in, holed the putt for birdie.
Just one poor tee shot really on 16.  And you can't keep it in the rough down there.  Not that I have done, but, you know, you're not going to make par out there (indiscernible).  70, I'm reasonably happy with it.
Q. And then as tournament courses go, is this the toughest that you've played --
PAUL BROADHURST: Oh, yeah.  Yeah.  No question.  This is the hardest course we've played probably since Scioto, was it, Columbus, Ohio, the U.S. Open?  And that was tough as well, but, I mean, yeah, when they set it up like this, it's -- you just go hit the fairway.  So that's number one.
Number one, you go hit the fairway.  Number two, you hit the greens and hit it below the flag if you can.  So I was a little bit negative with some of the downhill ones.  I had good putts that left me six inches short.  I just missed some of the last -- another roll, it was in and it just fell to the right of the hole.  So, you know, but it's difficult to race it at the hole when you know if you slightly misjudge it, you're (indiscernible).  But, yeah, I think a level par (indiscernible) the end of the day, I'm sure.  Really three off the pace (indiscernible) good position.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT