U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2014
Guillermo Pereira
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Minus-3 on the Highlands Course?  GUILLERMO PEREIRA: Highlands Course.   Q.  Tell me about the holes that you made birdies on?  What club did you hit, how close did you hit it?  GUILLERMO PEREIRA: Started with a birdie on 3, 9-iron, and I hit it about two feet, really close.  Then on 4, hit a 6-iron, and it was about 1 yard, really close too.  Then on 5 I made birdie too, so I got a chip, bump and run and less than one yard and made it.  Then I made birdie on 9, almost got in.  It was like one inch to the hole.  Then on 11, made a good birdie with a 56 ° second shot.  I put it about four yards and made a putt.  Then I birdied the 12th hole.  Hit a 3-iron to the green and two putts, birdie.  Then I made birdie on 17, put it about two feet.  Seven birdies, yeah.   Q.  Seven birdies, so you had some missteps along the way?  GUILLERMO PEREIRA: Yeah, I started with a bogey on No. 2, hit a bad drive.  But some normal bogies, nothing to worry about it, so just played good.   Q.  Without any birdies, were you hitting your driver in a good spot and then able to hit the irons in or are you hitting good irons and making putts or was it just a combination?  GUILLERMO PEREIRA: I think it was a combination, but I really hit very good irons, like always on target.  So I hit some good drives.  But some others, I went into the water on 8.  It was a little bad luck because it bounced over and kind of backspin and goes into the water.  But it's okay.   Q.  Now you got into the Amateur because of the top 50 world exemptions, correct?  Otherwise you wouldn't have played probably, correct?  GUILLERMO PEREIRA: Probably, yeah.   Q.  Okay.  Glad you made that decision to come?  GUILLERMO PEREIRA: Yeah, it's a big tournament.  I would like to have played this tournament, and I'm 7 in the world, so playing for a chance, that's why I came.   Q.  How has your summer been successful?  GUILLERMO PEREIRA: Well, in Chile it's winter, but I've played good tournaments, and I qualified for the World Am.  I shot 30-under in seven days, so I'm playing pretty good.  I struggled to hit the putter today, but it was okay, nothing to worry.  I just made a good few decisions.   Q.  How do you like the transition of the golf from stroke play to match play?  Do you like that?  GUILLERMO PEREIRA: I love it.  Match play is really like funny.  You can play what you want.  You can be very aggressive, so I think it's pretty good.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT