TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: KANSAS STATE v OREGON
December 30, 2012
Dana Dimel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Coach, I was talking to Travis, talking about the individual matchup where he's going against Von Miller and another guy who could be a top‑five pick.   What are you telling him about blocking against Dion Jordan and what does he have to do to be successful against him?
COACH DIMEL:   We seem to face them.   When you get down this late in the season, you're going to face a group of them.   He's a local player.   He's a local product.   Fun for him to be able to play in this game, last game of his career. 

Q.   Travis' last game, too. 
COACH DIMEL:   His last game.   He's played extremely well. 
Travis does what he does.   He's extremely intelligent, really efficient with what he does.   All Big 12 player.   Very proud of what he's been able to accomplish.   He stays within the fundamentals of his game.   That's what we stressed with him, Do your fundamentals, fundamentally sound, be intelligent with what you do. 
We spent a lot of time watching Oregon, watching Dion, so we understand what he does well. 

Q.   He said he really enjoys the mental aspect, Travis did, being around you.   He'd like to be a coach someday.   Do you see that with him?
COACH DIMEL:   His approach is really good.   He studies the game.   He's super smart.   We have a lot of fun together.   He's got a lot of people skills, too.   I told him he needs to be a politician, not a coach. 

Q.   Make more money as a coach. 
COACH DIMEL:   I'm not sure about that (laughter). 
He didn't buy in on that.   I really got to him at the Oklahoma State game.   His main skill is he's super intellectual, as well as being a great player.   I told him‑ he was struggling a little bit at the Oklahoma State game on a play or two‑ I said, The problem is that the defensive end is just smarter than you are.   I knew that was the way to get right to him.   That really motivated him. 

Q.   Did it make him mad?
COACH DIMEL:   That hurt him worse than anything you could tell him (laughter).   That's a good sign on how to motivate Travis. 

Q.   Can you tell me about Tyler Lockett, how much of an asset has he been to the offense?
COACH DIMEL:   That's been key.   I think I said in the summer that I thought Tyler was going to step up and be a real impact player. 
He did in certain aspects of what he did, but not to the level I believe he can do.   I still think he's got a huge top end above him.   He has that breakaway speed and quickness.   No one else has the confidence.   I think he's an elite athlete in the conference as far as his speed and quickness goes. 
He's really obtaining a lot of toughness to what he does with his run blocking and a lot of instincts are starting to show up.   That part of it is really expanding his game. 
But the speed element he brings to the table is something that really stretches defenses.   They really have to be concerned about him beating them deep. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT