CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: MIAMI VS WISCONSIN
December 27, 2017
Joe Rudolph
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Do you have any young guys, maybe guys we haven't seen this year that could be ready to take the jump?
JOE RUDOLPH: Yeah, you mean guys that haven't played?
Q. Yeah.
JOE RUDOLPH: Yeah, you know, I have some of the -- it's funny because you do, you notice guys on both sides of the ball, but I think we've been cheated with Isaiahh Loudermilk being banged up for a chunk of the year.  I think he really is going to be a special player as he kind of turns it loose and gets going.  Been excited about some of the young offensive linemen.  It's not easy going against our defense.  There's a lot mentally and physically, and those guys, I've enjoyed watching them kind of develop and play smarter and showing awareness that I think can be pretty good, and kind of the guys of that group have been Beach and Bruss and Kayden Lyles have done some really good things, but even some of the guys that have walked on the program, like a Josh Seltzner.  So there's been some fun stuff out of them, as well.  Jake Ferguson, he's done a great job, man.  He makes plays at the tight end position.  He's going to be a really good player.
Q. I was going to ask about him, you guys bringing him to Indianapolis --
JOE RUDOLPH: I think so.  I think him and Kayden Lyles traveled.
Q. Is that a sign of his progression, not that you would use him, just start getting him some experience for next year?
JOE RUDOLPH: Yeah, I think we took Scott Nelson and Kayden Lyles and Griffin Grady -- I can't remember everyone, but I think we brought some guys that we knew were going to be kind of core to the unit going forward.  There's no question, he did some things and a lot of learning that he needs to progress with, but sometimes a play making ability, you can't always coach that into someone, and he has it.  I've been really impressed with him.
Q. Not a lot of schools were able to sign everybody.  Your 19 commits, is that something you asked them to do, to sign early, because maybe it becomes a signal to other schools that maybe they're not committed?  How do you explain getting everybody?
JOE RUDOLPH: I think for us it was kind of easy.  They knew that we were committed to them, and I think the guys in the class truly felt that and understood that.  The thing that was kind of cool was I think as the year went on, they were truly committed to each other.  Like they really formed some great bonds, and they got kind of what the place was about, and it just seemed like that's what everyone would do, and that's what everyone did.  You kind of felt that way for a while, but I think for all of them, it was fun to be able to do that together.
Q. What drew you towards Chase Wolf?
JOE RUDOLPH: You know what, we really loved his film and liked the way he got the ball out, liked the way he moved around in the pocket, his -- had a really good awareness and combined with a play making ability thought he was special.  And then he came up to camp, and I was pumped, man.  Like I really loved the way he competed, watching the ball come off his hand was special, was more athletic than -- I felt pretty confident with that.  I was even like, man, that's pretty good the way he moved around.  It was fun.  I think as quick as he can jump in and learn it, and I don't think that'll be a problem for him, but excited for him to add to that competition.
Q. You guys seem to be holding up at wide receiver here.  What was kind of the reason for taking four more when I think the last nine underclassmen receivers are returning next year?
JOE RUDOLPH: Yeah, I think a combination, and I think as a group, I think it's always an emphasis when you can add -- when you can find a combination of speed, a football player that truly has speed and you combine that with like a really good kid, that's pretty fun.  So I think it was a little combination of that, but we also feel really strong about these guys playing wide receiver and then also having the ability if need be to push to other spots.  There will be great competition at the wide receiver position, but those guys can play football, and it's going to work out for all of them really well.
Q. I don't know how many reps Coan has gotten in practice.  Where is he today versus where he was at the end of camp?
JOE RUDOLPH: Yeah, well, I think there's some great reps that you get, and obviously with a little bit longer time to game plan, he's -- I think it's the same stuff.  I think more and more comfortable with the things that we're doing and had confidence with him during the year that if he was going to have to step in that he would do just that and compete his tail off.  But you definitely see the growth.  You see more confidence.  You see a calmness.  Like I said, I always see it like when guys are just kind of reacting after a play in and out of the huddle, and he definitely fills that, and you can see his players see it in him, too.
Q. Who are some of the young linemen that we haven't seen at practice for a long time?
JOE RUDOLPH: Of the really young guys?  I thought Bruss, Beach and Lyles have really done a good job and are developing.  I think all of them have taken some big steps, and even some guys that have walked on the program, like a Josh Seltzner has showed some things.  I'm pumped about that group as a whole.  I think they're good players, and you see them developing mentally as well as physically being able to communicate.  There's some good things out of them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT