OKLAHOMA CITY THUNDER MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 25, 2019
Nerlens Noel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You talked a lot about how this was one of the more fun years you've played basketball, whether that's been professionally or college.  Just whatever individual goals you had for yourself, did you accomplish them?
NERLENS NOEL: It's definitely been a great fun year for me to actually experience a team like this that has winning intentions and a mentality like that.  Definitely opened that up for me, to see the Playoffs and see that side.  But locker room full of veterans has been a major part of my growth, my maturity, and I definitely feel good about that.
Q. On that note, you've said it's some of the best chemistry you've seen.  And that was tested.  How did the chemistry stand up in the times when you guys post All-Star break were having struggles or through this series?
NERLENS NOEL: You know, definitely this was a very resilient team, led by Russ and P, Steve.  Those guys have done a great job of just continuing to build a culture here, especially from Russ from when he first got here.  I think it's helped us countless times throughout the year to be resilient, come back through games, and as close-knit as the team was, it's definitely been a great position that we've put ourselves in at certain points of the year to be successful.
But me personally, like I said, I took it all in.  It's all pretty new for me to be in this environment, this atmosphere and this culture that was built.  So I felt great about the year.
Q. Do you see some avenues or opportunities for yourself for strides forward, things that you'd like to be better or a different player next season?
NERLENS NOEL: Most definitely.  I think it's going to be a major summer for me, especially just being around this, like I said, and the playoff hunger.  After you lose in the Playoffs, there is definitely a new hunger that builds inside of you, a bad taste in your mouth, especially for me I can say.  But I definitely want to have a very, very big summer, regardless, working on a lot of my weaknesses, and try to become -- just become that much better over the summer, have no weaknesses when I come back, build up my body, and just try to come back a monster.
Q. You talked about being around this.  You have a player option going into next season.  Do you feel like you want to come back and play at that, or do you want to kind of explore your options in terms of whether it's here or elsewhere?
NERLENS NOEL: You know, I love this team and all, but I'm going to let my agent handle that situation.  He's made it pretty easy for me this year by just going out there and play, the team has especially.  So now I'm just going to simply focus on my workout regimen, try to be the best player I can be throughout this whole summer and let him figure all that out.
Q. When you say work on your weaknesses, what do you want to -- what are those specifically?
NERLENS NOEL: You know, just definitely add to my game.  I think the biggest thing would just be the weight room, just putting on size, and I think that would make me -- honestly, I think it'll just change my game and make me that much better, make me that much more just reliable in certain situations.  So yeah, just a big summer in the weight room, and everything else is just adding on, floater, 15-footer, just simple things to my game that will take me to another level, as well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT