OKLAHOMA CITY THUNDER MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 24, 2018
Nerlens Noel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I know you haven't had a lot of time yet with the team, but can you speak to the work yet that you've done with assistant Mark Bryant just in the short time you've had with him so far?  I know he plays a role with working with the Thunder's big men?
NERLENS NOEL: You know, it's been great.  Coach Mark Bryant, just definitely one of the top-tier development guys in this league.  You know, it's crazy because even before I even ever met him or knew his name, I could tell from seeing Steven Adams' progression over these past four or five years and just seeing how much he's really taken off just around the basket, so I knew that even beforehand, and when I started to get around him, I saw how really special he is.
Q. Nerlens, you talked this summer about Sam Presti impressing you.  He said the other day they painted a picture of a really uphill climb coming here, that it wasn't going to be easy.  What made you comfortable with that idea?
NERLENS NOEL: You know, just accepting challenges, and that's how I've been my whole life.  Just taking things right on.  I knew coming here that there would be some challenges and guys -- certain things would be demanded, and I was 110 percent ready for that.  You know, this team is definitely built, I think, the right way with the right pieces of guys that can really complement off each other and just go out there and play their own game just naturally.  That's another reason why I was really so attracted to this situation, and Russ, PG, the leadership, as well.
Q. Nerlens, when you look at this Thunder team and you probably saw last season it was kind of a disappointing season for both the team and the fans, are there ways that when you're watching film together with the squad, are there things and plays and games where you look and you say, man, I'm excited to be on this squad because I know I can help in these specific ways, like do you see holes that you can come in and fill?
NERLENS NOEL: Most definitely, right on.  It's just definitely the play style, and even watching last year's Playoffs, just seeing what they needed, with a backup big, just another big that can go out there and have the ability to switch out 1 through 5.  I've always imagined myself on a team like this, honestly, just a championship-built team, and I always felt like I was the type of player that can complement and just really put it over the top and really bring everything I have, athleticism, abilities offensively, defensively, pick-and-roll, opening up, spread the floor for shooters with the one-five, just little things that are really hard to guard, and defensive end guarding, rebounding, blocking shots.  All those things are just little things that can really help you get over that hump to get to where you want to be.
Q. You mentioned Steven; you played against him from time to time over the years.  Now you're with him on the same team.  What was your impression of him as an opponent both on the court and personality-wise, and how is that different now that you're starting to get to know him a little bit?
NERLENS NOEL: Oh, yeah, Steven is my guy.  I've known him a lot of it.  Yeah, I've known him since high school.  We used to go at it, he went to Notre Dame Prep and me Tilton.  So we've always had our great battles even since high school, and it's been a steady time since then, and to watch him grow and us going to go at it every day in practice and get each other better, our games are so different, but they can really help one another get better with my quickness and his size and prowess, so I think it's really going to be a good tandem this year, him starting off and me just bringing what I bring to the table.  So I think we're definitely really going to get each other better, and he's a really funny guy with a great personality, and I've always loved him.  I think it's going to be a fun year.
Q. What is it like for you and Jerami and Tim to start your careers in one place and experience some lows that you did in Philadelphia and end up coming back together, particularly you and Jerami, at a place like this in Oklahoma City where you have a chance of success?
NERLENS NOEL: You know, I definitely like it's the cycle of the NBA.  Opportunities will be there.  You just got to be ready, especially an opportunity like this in Oklahoma with this great organization, that Sam has really done a great job putting together.  I think there's a great position for all of us.  Jerami has come here I think after his second or third year, and you've seen the progression he's made.  He's a completely different player.  He's been molded into the system, to be that player that he naturally is and naturally wants to be.  So he hasn't had any restrictions and it's really helped his game a lot, and I'm really looking for the same, as well, in myself, just have this year as just a great focus year, just playing my game, having that long stretch.  It'll probably be my first time in the Playoffs -- it will be my first time in the Playoffs, and that will be a great experience for myself with all I've been through with the teams and to be around this really deep locker room filled with veterans, as myself, just continue learning because the learning process never stops.  I'm definitely excited for it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT