NBA DRAFT
June 27, 2013
Nerlens Noel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   Start with an opening statement about your feelings about getting drafted.
NERLENS NOEL:   I'm excited getting started with Anthony (Davis).   Just definitely looking forward to blocking a lot of shots with a Wildcat. 

Q.   Nerlens, there are reports you're going to be traded to the Philadelphia 76ers.   How do you feel about being a Sixer? 
NERLENS NOEL:   I feel very well about that.   They've got a great organization there, too.   I'm just staying positive about everything, definitely just working. 

Q.   How does it feel that a team traded up and an All‑Star point guard to get you? 
NERLENS NOEL:   I feel very well about that.   It shows how much confidence they have in me.   I'm just really staying positive through this and looking to get down there and work hard. 

Q.   Nerlens, congratulations on getting drafted.   A lot of people predicted you a top pick.   You didn't go the top pick.   Were you surprised?   What are your thoughts on where you were taken? 
NERLENS NOEL:   I thoughteverything was in the air, so I wasn't thinking I was the No. 1 pick.   I was just staying open, and I'm definitely very blessed and fortunate to be drafted to the New Orleans Pelicans.   I'm just looking forward to it. 

Q.   What was it like, the wait sitting there tonight?   And how much of an overall whirlwind has this been the fact you come in here and say, I can't wait to go and play with Anthony Davis and somebody in the room tells you you've probably been traded? 
NERLENS NOEL:   This game is a business, but I'm definitely like I said staying positive.   If I'm playing with Anthony Davis, I'm definitely looking forward to that. 

Q.   Congratulations to you.   Talk about the importance of your rebounding and your defense, your interior defense, how that can get you a lot of playing time when you're healthy. 
NERLENS NOEL:   I definitely feel that's part of my game where I can be able to contribute right away.   I mean, just being a good interior defender and definitely bringing my offensive part of my game along.   I think I'll be able to make an instant impact. 

Q.   Coach Calipari and the players that have come out of Kentucky and the tradition that over the past five years that have come out of that university, talk about what are the things, the advice he's given you to be able to prepare immediately for the next level. 
NERLENS NOEL:   Coach Calipari is the ultimate teacher.   He's taught me so much on and off the court.   He's been a great mentor to me keeping my head up through this injury and really working hard.   He's giving me a lot of motivation. 
I mean, he's taught me a lot.   I'm not the only guy like myself.   He's been in this game awhile.   He's had a lot of successful guys that have gone and done good things in the NBA. 

Q.   Have you been in contact or communication at all with the 76ers?   And if so, what did you guys discuss?   Because they obviously feel very highly about you. 
NERLENS NOEL:   No, I haven't been in contact with them as of recent. 

Q.   And what's going through your mind now seeing that you might end up in Philadelphia? 
NERLENS NOEL:   Yeah, I mean, it's a great organization.   They've got an All‑Star point guard in Jrue Holiday.   Definitely looking forward to it, if that's a possibility. 

Q.   Nerlens, the fact you didn't have a great year last year, were you worried that they didn't go to the NCAA?   Were you worried that would have an adverse effect? 
NERLENS NOEL:   I mean, it was unfortunate that I got hurt.   I felt that we definitely would have made a strong run in the tournament if I was to be healthy.   But I mean, it is what it is.   You have to take the next step.   Not look back too much on the past. 

Q.   Nerlens, just wondering about the possible trade with the Sixers.   Would you be comfortable playing there?   Do you have anything to say about that at all, if that is a true trade? 
NERLENS NOEL:   Yeah, definitely.   They have a great organization like I said.   All‑Star point guard.   Just a great group of guys.   That's definitely a possibility. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT