NL DIVISION SERIES: ROCKIES VS BREWERS
October 5, 2018
Jhoulys Chacin
Hernan Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Brewers - 4, Rockies - 0   
 Q.  You really had to battle through some of those innings tonight and pitching on short rest.  How did you feel?  Did you think you could go five and how did you feel about what you did?  
JHOULYS CHACIN: I feel fine.  In the first inning we got in a rhythm with Gonzalez, but just I made pitches when I have to make it, and yeah, I'm really happy that I got five innings with a big game yesterday, I really wanted to go as deep as I can and just happy that I could help the team today.   
 Q.  Hernan, did you feel like you were in a drought at the plate because I think it's been since August since you drove in a run.  Did you feel like you were scuffling at all?  How did it feel to break through with a big hit?  
HERNAN PEREZ: Yeah, at the end of the season I felt a little rushed.  I was chasing too many pitches.  Tonight I felt good at the plate.  Today I was a little more patient at the plate and I got pitches to hit.   
 Q.  Jhoulys, we've talked to you several times this year about the outside world saying, oh, the Brewers don't have enough pitching.  How many times have you heard that?  Now two games, you've given up two runs in 19 innings, your pitching staff.  What do you think about your pitching right now and what you've done?  
JHOULYS CHACIN: Like I said before, we always believe in ourselves.  We never care what other people say outside the clubhouse.  And for us, it's just a matter who's pitching in the game.  We just always root for the guy we know he can do the job.  And today was a sample.  I mean, yesterday and today was a sample.  They are a really good hitting team.  They're pitching well, too, but they're really good hitters, and we're making good pitches to them.  And whenever they had runners on base, I think that's the most important thing.  We're making pitches to get them out, and you had a sample today in the seventh.  There was nobody out, so he just threw a strikeout there, and he got it landed right there.   
But we just always are trying to make pitches, trying to get the guys out, and the bullpen just is doing what they've been doing the whole year.   
 Q.  You used your slider just way more over the past few years, and you use it inside, outside.  It's been an incredibly successful pitch for you.  I was just wondering if there was some sort of conscious decision to start using it a lot more.  Did you just have success and you just didn't stop?  
JHOULYS CHACIN: Well, actually what happened last year in San Diego, when I signed with them, the first thing they told me was to use my slider more to lefties, because lefties, that's the hitters that I got more trouble, and they said I didn't throw much to lefties my slider, and the little that I used to throw, I get them out.   
So I started doing last year, I started working out a lot in Spring Training backwards and back foot, and just like a good year last year and didn't change anything for this year.  Actually was trying just to get another pitch and use my changeup or splitter.  But still, like you said, just throw my slider more than anything else and just having success.  I'm not going to change for that.   
 Q.  Christian has gotten a lot of headlines over the last couple weeks for his strong finish, but is this an example that you guys are just more than him as a player with all the contributions up and down the roster you got from him?  
HERNAN PEREZ: Yeah, Chris has been the other guy on the side until now.  That's what we've had all year.  Every day it's somebody different.  One day can be Yelich, can be Lolo or whatever the guy has to be that night.   
 Q.  Jhoulys, you went five innings strong today, but when you have a bullpen like you guys do, how much does that help your mindset knowing if I do get in a jam, I know someone is there to back me up and how did that help you go five strong today?  
JHOULYS CHACIN: Yeah, they've been doing this the whole year.  It doesn't matter what game they got in.  They just got the job done.  And they just did it again today.  They've been doing, like I said, the whole season.  And I just never worry about whatever happens after I pitch because I know the guys just come in and do the job.   
Good example is J.J., yesterday he gave up two runs to tie the game, but he also just minimized the damage there, and then today just throw two good innings, and you could see how we feel about our guys.   
Like I said, again, we just believe in what we have here.  We believe in ourselves, and we always have the confidence whoever is hitting or pitching, they're going to do the job.   
 Q.  Jhoulys, considering your familiarity with the Rockies, are you surprised how well the team has been able to neutralize their lineup in the first two games?  
JHOULYS CHACIN: Well, they're a really good lineup and really good hitters.  And I know because I've played with a lot of them, and I feel like we're just making, like I said before, making pitches, making them chase and don't leave too many pitches on the plate.  And today for me, I was battling along with my command, but when a runner got on base, somebody to run, just made good pitches, and we got out of it.   
Like I said, for the bullpen to get to the seventh with a runner on third and nobody out, and they just made pitches, and we get out of it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT