NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: BROOKLYN
March 18, 2016
Fran Dunphy
Jaylen Bond
Quenton DeCosey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Iowa -72, Temple - 70
FRAN DUNPHY: Tremendous opportunity for us to be in a game like that, and for these two guys to finish their college basketball careers in a great game.  Both of them stepped up and played outstanding basketball.  I was proud of our guys for the non-quit factor in us.  Obviously, I'm disappointed we're not going to have a chance to play on Sunday, but, again, very proud of our guys.  Give credit to Iowa.  For what they did.
Q. When you guys think about being down by ten points midway through that second half, did you feel like there was something that you altered and changed that allowed you to come back and force that time, force the overtime?
JAYLEN BOND: We just had to play harder on defense, you know, just keep guys out of the lane.  Just focus on our matchups.
QUENTON DECOSEY: Aside from that, I think we just stuck together.  That was a major key, just bringing everybody together and staying together.
Q. Guys, there was a point, I think it was when you were down ten in the second half, Fran called a time-out, and there was a possession -- it was like a two-minute possession where you guys got a couple of offensive rebounds, drew a couple of fouls.  It seemed like that was a turning point.  Do you remember that sequence?  And did something in the time-out spur that sort of energy new guys?
JAYLEN BOND: Yeah, kind of like what Q said, just staying together in that time-out.  We knew we had to pick up our intensity on both ends of the court if we wanted to stay in the game, and that's what we did.
QUENTON DECOSEY: Like Jaylen said, we just stuck together like we did all year when we got down.  We did it again today.  So that was a major key.
Q. Guys, how will you feel about this, as Coach talked about you played great games going out.  What are your emotions as you go through such a tough loss?
JAYLEN BOND: It's hard.  Any time you lose is hard.
Q. Quenton, you guys are down three inside the final five seconds.  You throw up a shot.  You get fouled.  You have three shots.  What's going through your mind at that point?
QUENTON DECOSEY: The only thing I was thinking was just let me take my time, make the first one, then make the second one, then make the last one.  And just my follow through.
Q. Guys, final play, pretty crazy.  Wild heavy and then some shoving.  What did you guys see on the final play, and do you think a foul should have been called?
JAYLEN BOND: You know, they just beat us to the ball.  They were able to get an offensive rebound and the tip in won the game.
QUENTON DECOSEY: Basically, what Jaylen said, everybody was scrapping.  They just beat us to the ball.
Q. Can you reflect back on your time at Temple, what you learned from each other and what you learned from your coach.
JAYLEN BOND: It's been a great experience, you know, transferring after two years from Texas.  Just being part of this program.  It meant a lot for me and my family.  I wouldn't change anything.
QUENTON DECOSEY: Just not taking anything for granted.  Always think about others.  Don't think about yourself.  That's it.
Q. Jaylen, when Quenton picked up his third foul and came out of the game, that was sort of the moment during the second half when Iowa tried to get some distance and got a little bit, but when it came back in, that's when you guys caught up.  What does having him on the floor do for the rest of the players who are on the team?
JAYLEN BOND: It does a lot.  Q's our best scorer, our best offensive player.  So whenever we don't have him on the court, it's tough.  We try to maintain those, try to stay close in the game, and wait for him to get back in.
Q. Quenton, while you were on the floor, while you were on the bench and there was a gap that was opening up, what was your feeling about getting back into the game and the chances of Temple catching back up?
QUENTON DECOSEY: When I got back in, I just wanted to do whatever I could to help my team get back in the game and give us the best chance at winning the game.
Q. Fran, could you talk a little bit about the performance from Josh Brown today.  It seemed like he really played well.
FRAN DUNPHY: I thought he was fantastic on both ends of the court.  He made two huge shots in the first half, one to get the score back a little bit.  He made a big three.  And he made a big jumper at the end of the first half.  That held us in great position for a long time.
He's a really good player.  His numbers today were awesome.  He shot it well.  He rebounded it well.  5-to-2 on the assist-to-turns, which is typical for him, just a wonderful performance.
Q. Coach, do you think that was a pushoff at the end?
FRAN DUNPHY: I have no idea to be honest with you.  I certainly couldn't see it from where I was sitting.  We'll watching on the film, but the reality is it doesn't matter.  They got the rebound and put it back in.  Woodbury is a tough offensive rebounding guy, and we got hurt by the offensive rebounds throughout.
Q. When you look at the numbers at the end of the day, you guys have a 49-38 rebound edge.  You held their best player to 7 for 21 shooting.  They shot 25 percent from three.  Was there any part of the game plan where you felt like it wasn't executed?  Was there anything more, just tactically, that you think could have been done to change the way this came out?
FRAN DUNPHY: Well, in the first half, I thought they had a stretch where they made every shot they took, and that put us in a little bit of a hole.  So you're hoping they're not going to continue to shoot it as well as they did, and they did not.  Was some of that us?  Yeah, I hope so.  Was some of that them just maybe got out of a rhythm or whatever?  But I thought our defense throughout was good.  There were a couple of go byes that we could not give up that they scored on, and obviously, the offensive rebounds, I'm a little surprised that we had as many offensive rebounds as they did.  It seemed like in that flurry, that was really the only time they offensive rebounded it great, but it certainly hurt us.  It took a lot out of us.
But, again, I thought we were in pretty good shape as we made both comebacks, in the first half and the second half, and we had a two-point lead, I think, in the overtime and turned it two times over the next three, I believe.  I'll have to take a look at it.
Q. Fran, they didn't have any turnovers until about two minutes left in the game.  If you had heard that would happen, would you have thought you'd be in the game the way you were?  I mean, that's one of your bread and butters too obviously.
FRAN DUNPHY: Yeah, we turned it, I think, seven times in the first half.  I think we were five in the second half, and two of ours came late, which was in the overtime period, which hurt us.
Typically, we take better care of the ball than we did today.  We made sort of an uphill pass for an easy layup for them early in that second half, which hurt us.  It got them back out to ten points.  But if you had said that to me, I would have thought that we would have been in much worse shape.
Q. After Quenton made the first two free throws at the end and Iowa called a time-out, did you say anything to him in the huddle, or was it kind of like a pitcher throwing a no-hitter, you just didn't want to kind of do anything at the time?
FRAN DUNPHY: Well, we had to make sure we set our defense, and we just talked about, when Q makes this third shot, we're going to make sure we keep everybody right in front of us and not give up a quick low by for a good look.  So that's all we talked about.  That's what most coaches will do.  When your teammate makes this, here's how we're going to handle it.
Q. Coach, it was a heart breaking loss, but your upper classmen stepped up.  How do you feel about them?
FRAN DUNPHY: I feel great about them.  Just like I feel great about you, Max.  You're a cool kid.  And the fact that you asked your question the way you asked them.  I love these guys.  The seniors are gone.  You won't see much of them after this.  They'll work at it, some of them trying to be professional basketball players.  Some of them will be professional in some other way.  So it hurts, to be honest with you.  That's the part of the problem of this situation.  It's now the abruptness of the ending is frightening, to be honest with you.  But thank you for the question, Max.
Q. Fran, on that last play in regulation, at the time you're in the huddle, it was .8.  They reset it to 1.3.  I just wonder if you had the more time, would you maybe have looked to draw something up to throw it into the frontcourt?
FRAN DUNPHY: We had, obviously, no time-out.  We were -- if I had known -- what we talked about was, if Devin Coleman, I think he was our best long -- he's thrown in some interesting shots over his career.  I was hoping that he could get something moving to his left where he would just get one bounce and then take like a 50-footer if we could get it that far.  Yeah, we thought about that, but I just -- when they set .8 to 1.3, they didn't give us any time to make an adjustment there.  What we didn't want to do is throw it away and give them a chance for a quick look.  So I thought Josh Brown did a really good job giving that ball to Devin.  I would have rather he turn the other way and at least got it to his left side, but it didn't happen.
Q. On the last play in overtime, was there the defense that you had that you wanted there?
FRAN DUNPHY: No, I mean, we just wanted to be solid, and I thought we -- I thought Josh Brown did a great job on Gesell and made him shoot a really difficult shot.  And then, obviously, it's a free for all at that point, hoping you're getting it and their guys aren't.  Obviously, Woodbury got it and stuck it back in, but I thought our defense was really good that last possession.
Q. Fran, as tough as the ending was, can you take some time in consoling your seniors on this team to talk about to them what they accomplished this season, getting back to the tournament after just missing last year and winning the conference this season too?
FRAN DUNPHY: Well, we talked a little bit about it in our post-game comments.  Obviously, I feel for the seniors, tough game to go out on.  Every game is tough to go out on whenever you lose.  Obviously, a buzzer beater is even more difficult.
They're just wonderful guys, and they took good care of me in their time frame at Temple University.  I was proud of a couple of different efforts -- Quenton DeCosey making three foul shots, that's a tough chore, and he stepped up and did that.  One other play that just kind of stands out is Josh Brown on an unbelievable block in transition that just said, I'm representing my team.  We're not going to quit, and I'm going to give every ounce of effort I can.  So those two, in particular, stand out.
We had our chances, and, again, credit to Iowa.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT