138TH BELMONT STAKES
June 10, 2006
Fernando Jara
Kiaran McLaughlin
Rick Nichols
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
 KIARAN McLAUGHLIN:  It looked like he was moving easily.  When he came next to Bluegrass Cat.  It didn't look like anyone else was gaining quickly.  I was happy to be there.  That's what everybody talks about, deep closers can't win, so we had to be there with 3/8 left to go close.   
  
  
 KIARAN McLAUGHLIN:  Go ahead, Rick.   
 RICK NICHOLS:  Be honest, wasn't much talking decision making to do.  The way he rode him in the Wood, he fits the horse so well.  The horse responds to him so well. Sheikh Hamdan believes when somebody is doing a good job, you don't try to fix it.  We did discuss it with Sheikh Hamdan.  He said, absolutely, he's the man to ride him. He's done a good job so far.  Keep going.   
  
 KIARAN McLAUGHLIN:  Nice.  Rick and I spoke about it before the Wood Memorial.  If he happens to win, we're going to be attacked by other agents and jockeys to ride, Rick didn't hesitate, said, if he wins or he's second, he needs to stay with the horse.  He's very nice.  He's a talented little rider.  Rode a great race today and I'm sure he'll have a bright future.   
  
 RICK NICHOLS:  Yes, he did get to see it.  He had to stay in Dubai.  I spoke to him briefly coming down the steps and he's very happy, very well done to everybody.  But he did get to see it.  It's 2:30 in the morning his time. He stayed up to see it.   
  
  
 RICK NICHOLS:  They're very competitive amongst themselves and their horses in a race, and we want to go we will and  vice versa.  We run a lot of horses against each other in Europe.  That's where most of our stables are. It's quite competitive.  It's a loving, brother, friendly competition.  And they really enjoy.  You know, if we were to win or to run against each other and we finish one, two, or they finish one, two, they'll both be happy.   
  
 RICK NICHOLS:  Obviously, you have to see how the horse comes out, see how Kiaran thinks, how he trains. Definitely that would be two targets we would want to look at.   
  
 KIARAN McLAUGHLIN:  It's great growing up in Lexington, Kentucky, I'm living my dream training horses every day, but to be involved in the Triple Crown is what we all dream about and get up at 4:00 in the morning every day to try and accomplish and great to win our first time in a 1 1/2-mile Belmont.  I say "we" because I have a great staff of people.  I certainly don't do it by myself.   
  
 FERNANDO JARA:  Thank you for everything.  I feel great.  You have no idea how I feel right now.  When I' a kid and I saw the race, I say, one day I gonna be there. Now I win the race.  You don't know how I feel right now.   
  
 FERNANDO JARA:  I appreciate every time to Kiaran, when I lost my (inaudible) he start riding me a little bit. Now start giving me more horses.  I going to appreciate everytime, he helped me a lot, you know, I said thanks.   
  
  
 FERNANDO JARA:  You know, when he broke, he come in a little bit and I curve my feet with the door.  I can't put it back right away, the irons.  But the trip, I tried to be all the way in the clear.  I got, you know, clear race when I made my move and, you know, thank God, the best part of the race.   
  
 FERNANDO JARA:  No, because I know much better the race, I got to be there, get him ready.  (inaudible)  I, you know, I try to put him more in the present and try to move a little more.   
  
 KIARAN McLAUGHLIN:  In his training he worked in 46 and change.  He has speed, but Fernando gets on so well with him and switches him off and switches him on when he wants.  That's why he's been riding him all along and responds well to him.  We probably could have been real close if we wanted to but It seems like that suits him better.   
  
  Q.  Kiaran, in the Preaness, you took Fernando off a different horse.  Could you go through that scenario?  I know it's a different owner.  Fernando, I'd like you to follow up why you, if you were disappointed.   
 KIARAN McLAUGHLIN:  It was simple, one sentence from the owner like now:  I would like a more experienced rider.  And I tried to argue a little bit, but he pays the bills and he's the owner, and I said, no problem, we're 20-1, it's not like we can take him off a 2-5 shot.  It worked out well for Fernando, I think, and he'll end up back on the horse.   
  
  
  Q.  Fernando, when you lost the mount in the Preakness, were you pretty disappointed, pretty upset about that?   
 FERNANDO JARA:  No, no.  You know, I'm a young rider, and I understand that, but anyway, I going apprecaite taking me the opportunity to give me my fair grade, stay winner and I appreciate that.   
  
  
  Q.  You talked a little bit about the atmosphere here today, a lot of people going into this race were saying that it's not going to be like it normally is for a Belmont Stakes.  What was it like for you, I mean, other than the fact that you won it.   
  
 KIARAN McLAUGHLIN:  It was a great atmosphere to win a Grade 1 with such a well-bred horse with such key people.  It's a great win and I'll never forget it.  As long as I live, it was a great win.  Sorry that we weren't going for a Triple Crown.  I told the press yesterday, I thought we were going for the Triple Crown, the OTB Triple Crown; eight, eight and eight.  Eight won every leg of the Triple Crown.   
  
  
  Q.  Can you talk about what appealed to you at the sale in terms of buying this horse, what was it that attracted you to him?   
  
 RICK NICHOLS:  We buy it kind of like a committee; myself and some of my assistants on the farm, and Kiaran. We go to the sale and we look at the horses and we come up with a short list for the boss.  And ones that Sheikh Hamdan likes, is the ones we buy.  He liked this colt.  He's an athletic colt, neat.  Had a good walk to him, was correct. He was fortunate enough to be able to purchase it.   
  
  Q.  Pedigree enters into it.   
 RICK NICHOLS:  It's a great pedigree, especially for us, since we do a lot of running in Europe.  He has some distance in his pedigree.  That whole Raise a Native line has been a great line in our breeding program.  You'll see him in our stallion barn in Shadwell in Lexington some day. Hopefully, won't be this year.  Whenever he gets around to it.  He'll be smiling like we are.   
  
  Q.  Fernando, can you tell us when you began your career in Panama, what age, and why did you decide to come to United States to ride?   
 FERNANDO JARA:  14.  14 and I come to New York when I got 16.   
  
 FERNANDO JARA:  When I was a little kid, I see all the races, you know, I see the big jockeys and I say, one day I want to be there, and I'm here.   
  
  Q.  Do you have any idols like Braulio Baeza or anything?   
 FERNANDO JARA:  Laffitt Pincay,  Tim (inaudible) and Jerry Bailey.   
  
 FERNANDO JARA:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  Kiaran, at the draw on Wednesday, you said the horse was going to be closer because that's what the  Sheikh had asked.  How insistent was he?   
 KIARAN McLAUGHLIN:  Rick and I spent a lot of years with him and you don't have to let him say it twice. When he says it once, we hear him loud and clear.   
  
  Q.  For those of you who are new to covering horseracing, before this race you said the pace had to be fast-paced so he could get a good run.  Going down the backstretch with the wind, it looked like it might be kind of slower than you might have liked.  Could you talk about the pace and how it suited your horse?   
 KIARAN McLAUGHLIN:  The faster the better for a come from behind horse; 47 and change was fine.  It was great.  We were worried about a 50, 49, 50, 51.  That's happened before.  So, we were happy with a 47 and change. And he wasn't very far back.   
  
  Q.  Kiaran, maybe you talk about the three-year-old division now with Barbaro out, how would you look at the race for a championship?  I mean, is Barbaro still a factor because of Sentiment?  How do you look at what's ahead?   
 KIARAN McLAUGHLIN:  I'm sure Barbaro will probably end up being a championed three-year-old and unless we can pull off the Travers the Breeders Cup Classic, still it would be tough for him not to get it for what he has done.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about your first impressions of the first time you saw Fernando ride and what struck you about him and why you've stayed with him for so long?   
 KIARAN McLAUGHLIN:  I was an agent a year and a half  for Chris Antley.  I watched a lot of riders.  I think he has a raw natural ability, just fits a horse very well. He's confident, cool.  You know, he's done everything right. I like the way he fits a horse and he's a very good kid.   
  
 KIARAN McLAUGHLIN:  We're afraid he might go too fast on him in the mornings.   
  
 KIARAN McLAUGHLIN:  Once they're fit, it's hard to try to push past they're fitness.  You're just trying to keep them happy and maintenance works and we had a tough decision to work or not to work.  We walked the track, watched closely.  We decided not to work when most everybody else did work.  So it worked out this time, but he's very fit horse and doesn't require a lot of training.   
  
  Q.  Rick, you talked about the rivalry of the brothers the competitive rivalry; how big is it for Sheikh Hamdan to get this classic victory?   
 RICK NICHOLS:  Well, it's a great victory.  You have to understand that, like I said, we've always, in the last 21 years, always concentrated running in Europe and run many classes with homebreds and so forth, but Kiaran pulled off our first Grade 1 victory a couple of weeks ago with Invasor, and this is our second Grade 1 victory and our first American Classic.  We've got ten English classics or European classics.  So it's very, very important, not only to Sheikh Hamdan but to Shadwell Farm, our breeding program, to Kiaran and his staff, all the staff own Shadwell that helped us get us to this point.  So it's really going to boost his interest in American racing and I think instead of having 10 or 12 2-years-olds every year for Kiaran, we might have a few more.   
  
  Q.  Fernando and everybody else congratulations.  Tell us, Fernando, what your strategy was for Jazil, considering, obviously the kind of horse you had and the kind of length of the Belmont Stakes.  Just your general strategy as he was going around and as he fired in the turn for home?   
 FERNANDO JARA:  With him before the race trying to do the same in the Kentucky.  Trying to stand clear.  When I go to make my move, try to trouble (inaudible)   
  
  Q.  You look and you sound so calm now but what was going on inside of you during the stretch run?   
 KIARAN McLAUGHLIN:  It was a long damn way to the wire.  Once we got to the lead, I was looking for the wire.   
  
  Q.  I mean, were you jump --   
 KIARAN McLAUGHLIN:  I was very excited.  Obviously wanted to make the lead and no one's gaining on you with a 3 1/6  to go, it's very exciting.   
  
 KIARAN McLAUGHLIN:  I went down to visit with him earlier in the afternoon, like after the seventh race or something.  I just wanted to talk to him a little bit and he's just always so cool and comfortable.  I didn't want to say, lay fourth, lay eight.  I just wanted to see how he was feeling his mood he was confident and cool, so I didn't talk but for about three minutes with him, just talking and chatting and we had a lot of confidence in him.   
  
  Q.  You mentioned that you suspected after the Wood Memorial you'd get calls from Jockey agents.  Did you, and through the whole process, did you get calls Wood time, Derby time, Belmont time, can you estimate how many and what were they saying to you?   
 KIARAN McLAUGHLIN:  Well, quite a few after the Wood Memorial, there was probably six or eight different agents that wanted to ride him just because of the experience and the age and then going into the Belmont there were one or two or three, not 10, but there were three or four probably and I'm sure that had we ever wavered at all and showed weakness or thought we were going to make a change we might have had 25 phone calls.   
  
  
  Q.  Did you buy the horse with American racing in mind or something you decided after?   
 RICK NICHOLS:  Not necessarily.  We buy a horses in general and then at the end of the sale season Sheikh Hamdan selects the ones to stay in American and the ones that go on to England or Dubai to be broken.   
  
  Q.  Rick and Kiaran, if you both respond, please:  With the brothers winning the Preakness and the Belmont, does it say anything maybe about their getting a better handle on the American classics or the people who work for them knowing a little better what it takes?  What does it signify?   
  
 RICK NICHOLS:  I can't speak for Sheikh Mohammed but for Sheikh Hamdan, he is a tremendous horseman, he's got tremendous knowledge of European racing.  He understands our American racing but he's always been for focused on the English racing but he's getting moreover the last four or five years, getting more and more focused on winning the big races.  He came to the Kentucky Derby and he had a great time and he was really impressed with the American fans how walking out in the paddock they'd say "go Jazil" and wish him luck.  At the end of the day he said, "Rick, we need to win this one."  I think we'll be focused on doing that in the future.   
  
 RICK NICHOLS:  Here, again, I think it would be up to Kiaran, see how he comes out of the race, see how he feels and probably would be have to speak with Sheikh Hamdan what he thinks as well, what his wishes are, probably take a very good look at the Travers and onto the Classic the Breeders Cup.   
  
 RICK NICHOLS:  Yes, he's very good.  He listens and then he'll make a decision.  And like I say, he is a great horseman.  People don't realize, the man in his position in life how he has time to be a great horseman is unbelievable but I mean, as far as pedigrees and knowledge of an individual horse by looking at it, and strategy of how a race is run, he's unbelievable.   
  
  
  Q.  Fernando, can you tell me about your family back in Panama do you have brothers and sisters, is anybody else involved in racing?   
 FERNANDO JARA:  I got two sisters and one brother and my dad he was a trainer in Panama.  My grandpa was a trainer in Chile.  I got all my family from my dad come jockeys, trainers.   
  
  Q.  What your dad's first name? A.  Jorge.   
 KIARAN McLAUGHLIN:  He was here today, wasn't he?   
  
  Q.  He was here for this?   
  
 FERNANDO JARA:  Yes.   
  THE MODERATOR:  Any last questions for Fernando specifically?   
  
  Q.  Did you ever worry they might take you off the horse?   
  RICK NICHOLS:  He shouldn't have.  We never mentioned it.  Never even thought about it.    
  Q.  You said you rode at 14, is that unusual in Panama?  In the United States you have to be 16 to ride.  Is it common for riders to ride that young in Panama?   
 FERNANDO JARA:  Excuse me.   
  
 FERNANDO JARA:  They start riding at 14.   
  
 FERNANDO JARA:  Yes.   
  
 FERNANDO JARA:  60, 59, 60 races.   
  
 FERNANDO JARA:  Thank you, very much.   
  
  
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT