NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PENGUINS v DEVILS
May 17, 2001
Bob Boughner
Johan Hedberg
Mario Lemieux
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Not much happening for you guys out there?

JOHAN HEDBERG:   They come up with a pretty strong effort tonight, and couldn't really get it home, but that's the way it's going to be some nights.  You get a five-on-three there, which is  -- I don't know, it's pretty tough.  They are a great team and they played good tonight.


Q.  You were back there alone quite a bit? 

JOHAN HEDBERG:   Well, that's going to happen when you're down, and you've got to come back and change things around.  That's the way it's going to be.  

MARIO LEMIEUX:  I felt we played real well in the first period and they came at us and they had big opportunities and scored.  Every time they get the lead, they go into their trap.


Q.  How do you deal with this?  How do you go on from here?

MARIO LEMIEUX:   We've just got to find a way to play against them these guys.  Find a way to -- what they are doing, finding a way to play against that, it's a different story.  This time, we have to stick together, help each other.  It's just one game, but if we can learn from that, we can come back in the next game.


Q.  Anything you about this game tonight from your end? 

MARIO LEMIEUX:   Not really just got to find a way to play against that trap, come up with something different


Q.  It seemed like you held on the first two periods, but then were out on an island, they had 24 shots through midway point in the game.  That's a lot of shots? 

BOB BOUGHNER:  You give up 15 shots or whatever it was in the first period, some of the shots were breakaways, dead-on, one of those shots  -- I mean, the guy played his butt off the other night for us, and we just sort of left him hanging.  You know, he played good enough for us to win.  We just couldn't find a goal, a little too late.  I think they learn when they have got a one- or two-goal lead like they did in the last game  -- you are not going to give the New Jersey Devils a one- or two-goal lead every game and expect to come back.  We've got to find ways of coming out. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT