CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: TEXAS A&M VS NORTH CAROLINA
January 2, 2021
Kellen Mond
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT










Texas A&M 41, North Carolina 27.
Q. I wonder if you could just walk us through the game.  Obviously a lot of momentum swings, but you guys were able to weather the storm and then Devon just the performance he had for you.
KELLEN MOND:   I mean, definitely.  I think it's definitely a game where it definitely tested our poise, our leadership and our character.  I think just some of the older guys we've got and something not emphasized the entire season was the combination of the younger guys and the older guys being able to play together on both sides of the ball, and being able to execute both in the pass game and in the run game.  Even down in the second half, we never lost our poise and we just continued to attack, and we were able to come up with a great win.
Q. I know the camera caught you and Jimbo having a moment after the game.  Can you tell us anything, what he said?
KELLEN MOND:   Honestly, I don't even remember.  Kind of got of got emotional.  I think just our first year together, and looking back now -- looking at where we are now, we've overcome so much stuff.  We've been through a lot of adversity, and a lot of people doubted him if he could win big games and also doubted me, and we just continued to fight, and now only lost one game, which was about two months ago, and Orange Bowl champions.
Q. If this is your last game at A&M, just what has it meant to you to play for the Aggies and to finish your career and go out like this?
KELLEN MOND:   I mean, it's tremendous.  It's a phenomenal feeling.  I've had so much support from so many different people, and through ups and downs, injury, mental health issues and just being able to overcome stuff, and just looking back at where I started after the UCLA game, and being able to finish four years later as an Orange Bowl champion, it's a phenomenal feeling, and I'm thankful for the path that I've gone through this whole entire career.
Q. How much thought have you given to your future, and do you have any idea what you want to do?
KELLEN MOND:   I've given some thought, and like I said earlier in the week, it was something that was talked around the locker room, but no decisions have been made, and I really just wanted to come out here and focus on what exactly I need to focus on, and that was to execute and lead my team to another victory.  That was my main focus the past two weeks.
Q. How fast is Devon Achane?
KELLEN MOND:   He's pretty fast.  I mean, he's running track here for a reason, so...
Q. Just from your standpoint on that play, the 76-yard touchdown as it unfolded, could you tell it was going to be a big play or just your thoughts of how that play went?
KELLEN MOND:   It was a counter play, something that we ran a lot this season, and Jalen actually gave him a great block, and it was one of the -- not going to say the first times, but one of the times that Jalen was actually imposing his will and was actually a lot more physical than sometimes where he can be.  But that just kind of goes to the toughness and just the will that this whole entire team has, and Devon was able to come in here and give us a great spark.
Q. Obviously you called the shots as a senior back there, but when you look at the production not just tonight but all year, Achane, Spiller, Ainais, Jalen, Chase Lane, they're all freshmen or sophomores.  How exciting is that?  Obviously you may be moving on, but how exciting is that for this program to have all those playmakers that are so young stepping up already?
KELLEN MOND:   It's crazy, and just to see their growth, both Isaiah and Ainias from their freshman to sophomore year, one thing that's pretty special and makes them a lot different from a lot of other people, they're all versatile in both the pass and the run game.  We are able to this year do a lot of diverse things with each one of those guys, and we were able to execute at a high level.
Q. Kellen, you mentioned just a minute ago the UCLA game, and I know that was quite an introduction to college football for you, but when you think back to where you started and where you are now, what are you most proud of in your personal development both as a player and a member of this team?
KELLEN MOND:   I think just my demeanor, just cool, calm, collected and poised, the ability to keep composure through all adversity, and I've been battle tested pretty much my whole entire career.  I've been through a lot, and I gave my heart and soul to this university for four years, and I mean, it's been a tremendous ride.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT