NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RANGERS v CANADIENS
May 24, 2014
Michel Therrien
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can you just talk about what you're up with with name Ulf, and whether or not there is a certain understanding with your team about practice days etiquette?   
COACH THERRIEN:   There is always a gentleman's agreement between two teams and the general manager that coaches are not allowed to attend practices between games.   Game day is different.   So when we saw those assistant coaches there, they were not supposed to be there, so we let them know.  
   
 Q.   A couple players said they fully expect Stepan to play tomorrow.   Do you share that opinion?   
COACH THERRIEN:   I don't know.   I talked to doctor.   When a player gets an operation like that it's really risky to play a player, but I don't know.  
   
 Q.   Could you give us your thoughts on the suspension?   
COACH THERRIEN:   If you agree or not, you've got to respect the decision and you've got to move on.   That is the most important thing.   We've decided to move on.   Brandon Prust is going to serve his suspension, but for us we're moving on.  
   
 Q.   Can you explain why the gentleman's agreement exists?   Why you wouldn't typically watch practice?   
COACH THERRIEN:   It's respect for coaches that want to make adjustments between games, and it's always been like that and that's the way it is.  
   
 Q.   Did you have a conversation with Brandon Prust after the suspension, and would you let us into what that discussion was?   
COACH THERRIEN:   Yes, I did.  
   
 Q.   What was the gist of the conversation?   
COACH THERRIEN:   That is a thing between us.  
   
 Q.   David Desharnais, can you compare his game from October until now and how he's brought himself through all of that?   
COACH THERRIEN:   Well, this is a young man that is getting better and better.   You know, he had a tough start with our team, but he's battling hard.   He's competing.   He's an important player for us.   I have a lot of respect for his work ethic.   He's an important part of the success of this hockey team, and a lot of credit goes to him because of the way that kid's competing every game.   He's good defensively.   He's got poise with pucks.   He's getting better and better on face‑off.   He's good defensively.   So we really like his game.  
   
 Q.   Could you just discuss what the tradeoff between Prust and Beaulieu will be?  
COACH THERRIEN:   First of all, I haven't made my final decision regarding the lineup.  
   
 Q.   Just in case?  
COACH THERRIEN:   You know what, because it's tough for me to talk about that question because I'm not sure what type of lineup they're going to put in tomorrow night, with all due respect.  
   
  
  
   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT