NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RANGERS v CANADIENS
May 19, 2014
Michel Therrien
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Rangers  – 3
  Canadiens  – 1

Q.   Did you ever get an explanation on the Alex Galchenyuk penalty in the second period, and if so, were you satisfied? 
COACH THERRIEN:   You know what, to win hockey games, first of all, you need some breaks and you need some calls at the right time.   I'm sure the referees had a chance to review the call.   They probably will take a different version of what he did, you know?   It happened fast. 
Obviously, to win a hockey game, you need breaks, and you need calls.   Right now we don't have those breaks, and tonight we didn't have those calls at the right time.   But I like our team effort.   I thought our effort was great tonight.

Q.   What factored into the decision to go with Tokarski this evening, and how difficult was it to break the news to Peter? 
COACH THERRIEN:   Yeah, the number one reason why we decided to go with Tokarski, you look at his track record, he's a winner.   I thought he played well tonight.   We did talk to Peter this morning, and he really reacted as a pro, and he's a good teammate to understand our decision.   We let him know the reason why.   So for sure for him, it could be tough.   They're all tough decisions, but we have to take them.

Q.   Are you happy at all to have a couple of days between now and the next game?   Does it help you regroup as a team? 
COACH THERRIEN:   Yeah, tomorrow's going to be a day off for everyone, so I think it's going to be mentally and physically as well for the players and coaches.   We're going to have to regroup and make sure we have a good performance in New York.   Like I said, momentum in the playoffs could change really quick.

Q.   You just finished saying that you started the game exactly the way you hoped to start.   When you do that and you still come out of the first period down, what is the effect on the team mentally? 
COACH THERRIEN:   You know what?   The reason why we lost the game tonight was Lundqvist. Lundqvist was phenomenal, phenomenal.   Stole the game.   Those things happen in the playoffs, but I like the way we approached tonight's game.   He made a couple of breaks.   And when you get those breaks, momentum can change really quick in the playoffs.

Q.   Overall, how would you evaluate how Dustin did?   Do you foresee sticking with him in Game 3? 
COACH THERRIEN:   Well, he did really well.   I believe he did well, and we're pleased with our decision.   He did well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT