BRIDGESTONE NHL WINTER CLASSIC: CANADIENS v BRUINS
December 31, 2015
Michel Therrien
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. I know in the past you liked to plan your goaltenders start. I'm sure that's been challenging. Mike Condon said he was told this morning that he was playing, but how far in advance did you make that decision? 
MICHEL THERRIEN: We talked about it yesterday with Stéphane Waite, and, first of all, Michael deserves to play. He did really well the last two games, and we got to consider too the fact that he is in here. But the most important thing is he deserves to play today because of the way he's been playing the last two games.

Q. I think a lot of people have looked at your teams and said that Brendan Gallagher was probably a big reason why you've struggled a bit to get some wins this month. How do you coach‑‑ do you have to talk to him in any way just to not put any pressure on him? Do you have to address that with him or the team? 
MICHEL THERRIEN: He knows how to play the game. He knows what he's supposed to bring to the hockey team, and I'm not worried about that. Because you know what you get from Brendan Gallagher every time he's out there.

Q. Is there any truth to that, the idea that he's been missing this month? 
MICHEL THERRIEN: You know what? The fact that he's there, we could go back almost with the combination that we got early in the season to where we've got success. That's the big difference.

Q. Your game is based so much on speed. Do you have measures or adjustments in place in the event that soft or slushy ice becomes part of the equation? 
MICHEL THERRIEN: Yeah, we hope the ice surface is going to be better. I had a hard time to pass the puck today (laughing). But for the players, it's going to be the same ice surface for both teams. So you can't forget the Bruins are a fast team, too, so we're going to have to keep everything simple. Hopefully the ice surface is going to be better tomorrow. I'm sure the NHL is going to work really hard at it. But for me, it's not an excuse.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT