NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RANGERS v CANADIENS
May 18, 2014
Michel Therrien
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   On the same subject, your city is quite nervous and passionate over the visual evidence of what might have happened to Carey last night and him being on the ice for a brief time this morning.   What do you say to your fan base to try to calm those fears?   
COACH THERRIEN:   I don't have much to say.   Today is an optional practice, and this is a therapy day for him.   I reviewed the incident, and obviously it was an accidental contact.   Put it this way, it didn't make much effort to avoid the contact.  
   
 Q.   Do you think, does Kreider have that kind of reputation?   I know he did slam into Fleury in the last round?  
COACH THERRIEN:   Well, you know what?   It happened in the past, and like I just said, I'm sure the intention of the player is not to hit the goalie, but you have to try everything in your power to avoid contact.   It's tough to say if he tried everything to avoid that contact.  
   
 Q.   At a different point in each round we've asked you about Thomas Vanek.   I know a lot of players obviously needed to be better last night, but in the minutes that you gave him, at any point did it enter your mind to make him a healthy scratch at that point?   
COACH THERRIEN:   No, no.   You know what?   After the game yesterday we did talk about their game.   We turned the page, and we're not going to come back about yesterday's game.   What is most important for us is the way that we're going to play tomorrow night.   That is the only thing that we can control is our preparation and focus and make sure we have a good game tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Is there any doubt in your mind that Carey will play tomorrow night?   
COACH THERRIEN:   We'll see tomorrow.   We'll see tomorrow.   I can't tell you that right now.  
   
 Q.   In the third period Brandon Mashinter took some shots at Kreider and a couple of minors.   Do you like what Brandon did in that sense, or do you think he should have laid off?   
COACH THERRIEN:   Tough to say.   I guess as a player you can appreciate what Kreider did to Carey Price, but we have to make sure we control our emotions for the next game.  
   
 Q.   Any thoughts on what you could do to impact Henrik Lundqvist's life a little bit tomorrow and making it more of a physical battle?   
COACH THERRIEN:   You know what?   Yesterday's game is behind us.   It's like we know what we're supposed to do, and yesterday we didn't do it at all, at all.   I don't want to talk about that game like everything was bad for us last night and we've got to move on.   That team faced adversity where at time we had some bad games through the course of the regular season and even it happened in the playoffs.   
But I like the way they respond because we always show the right attitude.   Tomorrow we will have the right attitude to approach tomorrow night's game.  
   
 Q.   Where is Alex Galchenyuk in recovery?   Is he an option for next game?   
COACH THERRIEN:   He's doing really good.   He's clear for contact, he practiced well, and we'll see for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   It's possible?   
COACH THERRIEN:   It's always a possibility.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT