NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RANGERS v CANADIENS
May 17, 2014
Michel Therrien
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Rangers  – 7
  Canadiens  – 2

Q.   A few of the players mentioned that they felt the energy and emotion wasn't there after a tough series with Boston.   Did you feel that?   Did you see that? 
COACH THERRIEN:   Yeah, we're not ready mentally.   Physically we're not ready to compete for a game like that and with the result that we saw.

Q.   If you can, just what did you think of the play where Kreider slid into Carey, and was him not playing later in the game at all injury related? 
COACH THERRIEN:   I think it was accidental, honestly.   The fact that he didn't play in the third period, that was more to protect him than anything, because we were not sharp in front of him.

Q.   In a way is a game like that easier for you to put behind you and for your players to put behind you and move forward?   You just said in French it's hard to make adjustments when you're not in the game.   Is that almost a benefit to losing like that? 
COACH THERRIEN:   You never want to lose a game, but it's going to bring us to get back unhurt and make sure that we as a group have to be ready to compete and ready to play every night if we want to have a chance to win.   So we've put that game behind us.   We're going to move forward, but that's a good lesson.

Q.   It was a big shift between teams and between play in Boston, short rest and everything.   You come back and all of a sudden you have a team that's coming at you with real speed.   Is that like adjusting to a different pitcher? 
COACH THERRIEN:   This is a good hockey team.   They just beat the Pittsburgh Penguins.   That's one of the teams in the league too.   But we didn't play our game.   That is the most important thing.   We didn't play our game.   We didn't give ourselves a chance to win this hockey game.   So we're going to regroup and make sure next game that we're going to compete a lot harder and be more alert. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT