NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RANGERS v CANADIENS
May 29, 2014
Michel Therrien
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Rangers  – 1
  Canadiens  – 0 
   
 Q.   At the start of the season, you and Marc Bergevin assessed or believed that your team would be a squad that would be fighting to make the playoffs, but now that you've gotten this close to the Cup file, how would you characterize or summarize the season your team just put in?   
COACH THERRIEN:   It's really tough for tonight talking about the entire season, because I know it's like when you get close to achieving a goal, it hurts, and it hurts more when you're close.   There are going to be 29 teams this year that are going to be disappointed, and one team is going to be enjoying their season while winning the Stanley Cup.   That is the purpose.  
But I've got to look around the season, and we made some big progress this year.   I'm proud of this hockey team.   We battled hard through the regular season and we battled hard in the playoffs.  
   
 Q.   Obviously, you had to throw an unproven goalie in the series in Dustin Tokarski.   What did you think of his performance for you guys?   
COACH THERRIEN:   I thought the kid did a fabulous job.   He gave us a chance to win every night that he was there.   Yes, we lost our best player early in the season in Carey Price, or in that series, I mean, but we had confidence in the young man.   Dustin was, as far as we're concerned, he was really, really good.  
   
 Q.   Can you shed some light now maybe on what the prognosis would have been for Carey now that the season's over?   Did he have a chance now to play the next round, do you think?   
COACH THERRIEN:   Yeah, he was doing good.   We're not sure if he was going to be ready for the first game, but he was making some progress.   It's really tough when you start a series and you lose your best player.   But the young kid did a great job, but we were hoping that Carey was going to be ready for the first game of the next round.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT