NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RANGERS v CANADIENS
May 29, 2014
Michel Therrien
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Coach Therrien.   
   
 Q.   Is there any regret about having Dale come back given that the symptoms, obviously, came on after the game?  
COACH THERRIEN:   You're presuming.   
   
 Q.   Am I not correct?  
COACH THERRIEN:   You're not correct.   
   
 Q.   Is Emelin available tonight?  
COACH THERRIEN:   Game time decision.   
   
 Q.   The crowd is going to be excited, wanting to jump on you early.   How important is it for you to keep the crowd at bay the first 10 minutes?  
COACH THERRIEN:   Both teams want to set the tone for tonight's game.  
But, yes, in the first 10 minutes, it's always crucial.   But I'm going to tell you something, the entire 60 minutes is going to be really important.   
   
 Q.   I know you touched on it briefly, but can you explain the difference and what happened between the third period for Dale, when he was let back in the game, now not being able to play tonight?  
COACH THERRIEN:   Well, after the hit he went to meet the doctors, saw the doctors.   He was feeling fine about finishing the game.   
For us, what is really important is player safety.   This is important for us.   It's been like that all season long.   It's not going to change.   
For a player not able to play the next game, this is something that we could see on a regular basis.   You can see Stepan finished a game with a broken jaw, get an operation the next day, miss Game4, I believe‑‑ Game 3, I'm sorry, and came back after his operation.   
So those are the things that you see at this time of the year.   
But right now he's got a body injury.   He won't be able to play tonight.   
   
 Q.   Prust's return is timely.   What do you expect from him?  
COACH THERRIEN:   He's going to be hungry to play.   He's going to hard.   He's excited about playing tonight.   
We're glad he's back in our lineup.   
   
 Q.   Can you share what the criteria a player has to meet to get back out on the ice?   As much as it's commendable to say he felt fine, wanted to play, any hockey player is going to want to get back out there.   
COACH THERRIEN:   Those are the things that I don't know.   As a coach, I never get a concussion.   
But one thing I trust, we trust our medical staff.   We trust our doctor.   So when they're saying that he's good to go, he's good to go.   
But right now he's having a body injury.   
   
 Q.   How does your lineup change when you take Weise out and put Prust in?   What does that do to the look of your team?  
COACH THERRIEN:   You'll see tonight.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT