NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RANGERS v CANADIENS
May 28, 2014
Michel Therrien
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I wonder if you might be able to talk a little bit about Alex Galchenyuk, and what he's brought and what you think of his progression for a guy who was out for almost two months and stepped into the playoffs here in the last four games?   
COACH THERRIEN:   Yeah, he was out for six weeks, and every game he's getting better.   Definitely last night was his best game.   He was involved.   He was making plays in tight.   He's got good skill and was competing, and every game he's getting better.   So that's a great sign.   So after missing six weeks you can't expect a player the first game he's going to come back to be on top of his game.   
But the thing I was saying with Galchenyuk is every game‑‑ he's played four games right now‑‑ every game he got better, and that's a great sign.  
   
 Q.   How is Dale Weise today?   And Alain was saying he thought he was admiring his pass, and the penalty was good enough and there wouldn't be more?  
COACH THERRIEN:   What Alain is saying it's normal.   He's there to protect his players with his comments, and any coach is going to say those types of things.   But we all saw the hit.   It's in the league's hands and I'm sure they're going to take the good decision, so that's the way we see it.  
   
 Q.   How is Weise?   
COACH THERRIEN:   I didn't see him this morning.  
   
 Q.   The same question about Rene Bourque; in the regular season only nine goals and now eight in the playoffs.   What explains from a coaching side of things his turnaround?   
COACH THERRIEN:   You know what?   He led to the end of the series in the season.   We saw Rene engaged in the game a lot more, moving his feet, being physical, going hard to the net.   He's doing a lot of good things.   You can't expect a player to score three goals every night and score every game.   But even when he doesn't score, he's playing solid hockey.   He's getting involved physically.   And last night, for me, it was leadership.   It was a huge game for us.   He came up big, and that's good not only for him, but for us.   I really appreciate his effort last night.  
   
 Q.   Just about Alexei Emelin, will he travel to New York?   
COACH THERRIEN:   Yes.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT