NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RANGERS v CANADIENS
May 27, 2014
Michel Therrien
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Canadiens  – 7
  Rangers  – 4

Q.   Your take on the John Moore hit on Dale Weise? 
COACH THERRIEN:   First of all, I thought it was the right call on the ice.   We all saw it.   We all saw it on the ice and saw the different angle on the TV after the game.   They'll decide what they're going to do after.

Q.   After such a crazy second period, why do you think your guys were able to compose themselves and have a strong start to the third? 
COACH THERRIEN:   Well, you know what?   I told the players between the second and third period, pretty simple, we tied second period with the goal of Bourque late in the second.   So it gave us the confidence to play, to approach the team, this is what we did, and we got that possession and got the lead and got through the third period.   Our team was comfortable to play that type of game.

Q.   When Moore hit, Weise was groggy after.   Can you just run through the team's process of allowing him back on the ice for the rest of the game? 
COACH THERRIEN:   Well, he went to the quiet room and saw a doctor and they felt that he was good to go.

Q.   When and how did Alexei Emelin get injured?   Was it upper or lower body, and what is the status? 
COACH THERRIEN:   First of all, he got injured last game, and it's a body injury.

Q.   Bourque is like your secret weapon, except you never know when he's going to go off, and when he does, it's a big explosion like it was tonight? 
COACH THERRIEN:   Yeah, you know what?   Rene Bourque played a great game.   He was a force out there, you know?   On the forecheck, he took the man.   He was moving his feet.   He was going hard to the map mat.   He's a very good scorer, so definitely that was a great performance by him.

Q.   I believe in French you explained why you didn't call a timeout after they tied the game.   Could you answer that in English? 
COACH THERRIEN:   Because I felt, the reason I didn't call timeout is because I felt our attitude on the bench was good.   When they tied the game, attitude was sharp and we scored not too far after, so we didn't decide to call a timeout because as a coach you had a feeling that your team is losing confidence, but that was not the case.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT