NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RANGERS v CANADIENS
May 26, 2014
Michel Therrien
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Are you and the players encouraged to see Carey out on the ice, even in just a light capacity?   Even though you're not expecting him to be back from this series? 
COACH THERRIEN:   He's not going to play, like I said before.   He's not going to play in the series, you know.   It's just part of the rehab, that's all.   It's a great time.

Q.   The Rangers have scored first in every game in this series and you were able to overcome that in Game 3.   But what is it about this year around the league, one goal, the opening goal seems to give such momentum to the team for the night? 
COACH THERRIEN:   Yeah, prior series against Tampa Bay and the Bruins that we were the team scoring the first goal and it gave us a lot of momentum and confidence.   Obviously, in that series, it doesn't happen.   But we had to try to change our game plan.   We want to score that first goal, and we know it's important.   It gives confidence to teams, so we've got to be ready. 
We've got to play hard right from the start and try to make sure we score that first goal.   But at the end of the day, it's not the end of the world.   Because usually to win a hockey game, you need to get three goals to win games usually.   Yes, we'd like to score that first goal, but even if you score early and we get scored, there is still a lot of hockey to be played.

Q.   With all the goings on in this series there is a portrayal that you and Alain have been at each other's throats and mind games and whatnot.   There was some TV footage yesterday of when Alain was driving into the Garden and you guys had a little chat, and it looked like it was pretty amicable.   Can you just share at all what that was about? 
COACH THERRIEN:   I saw him coming and I told him to go away because I didn't want him to hit me and he laughed about it.   He thought it was funny.

Q.   (No Audio) what's it going to be like down the road? 
COACH THERRIEN:   You know what?   Like I said before the series, and what I said yesterday, I've got tons of respect for Alain Vigneault, but right now we're competing for the same thing, and we want our team to participate in the Stanley Cup Finals.   So he's doing everything he can to prepare his team, and I'm trying to do the same thing.   It's nothing personal.   It's nothing personal because we both respect each other.   When the series will be over, it's going to be over.

Q.   When you have a tough loss like you did last night with a young goaltender in Dustin, how do you approach him?   Do you speak to him about it or how did you handle that? 
COACH THERRIEN:   (Indiscernible) the goalie, so...







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT