THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 5, 2015
Bo Van Pelt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How was your round today?  
BO VAN PELT:   You know, it was decent.   I felt like I hit a bunch of good putts.   I didn't read them as well as I did yesterday, I hit some putts right where I was looking and just a little off.   Just a couple of loose short iron shots cost me.   I had my one bogey, perfect pitching wedge yardage.   The other one, perfect L‑wedge yardage.   
So need to clean that up for the weekend.  
   
 Q.   Conditions still staying the same today as they were yesterday?  
BO VAN PELT:   Absolutely.   The golf course is perfect.   Barely had any wind.   I think you'll see some good scores.   It's kind of the nature of this golf course, it's out there if you're hitting it well.   But if you just barely miss it, there's some tough pins and the greens are getting faster.  
   
 Q.   Had a little trouble, was it 7 and 8, but you were able to make a huge putt there on 9?  
BO VAN PELT:   Yeah, I had a great number on 7.   The wind switched on me a little bit and I came up short.   I had great speed all week, and had real bad speed on the first one.   
8, you just can't miss that ball to the right.   You can hit it 30 yards left of that pin.   And I know better than that.   
But it was nice to make that putt on 9 to keep it at even par today.  
   
 Q.   Do you like where you're positioned for the weekend?  
BO VAN PELT:   Yeah, absolutely.   It hadn't been the best of years for me, so anytime‑‑ if the lead doesn't get any higher than 12, you're in pretty good shape for the weekend.   Just need to go out and make a bunch of birdies this weekend.  
   
 Q.   Do you think guys are going to be able to post any scores this afternoon?   Things are getting faster and it's getting more windy.   
BO VAN PELT:   Yeah, I think so.   There were some good scores yesterday afternoon.   It feels like it's going to be about the same.   There were some really good names that shot 4‑ or 5‑under yesterday.   A couple of those guys are going to definitely play well today.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT