ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 17, 2013
Bo Van Pelt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How do you feel about your round today?  
BO VAN PELT:   I was pleased with how I played overall.   Just like my sense of how I hit it, finally hit some good shots.   I think I only missed two or three greens.   
So it was good after having a long layoff to come out.   You know, disappointed‑‑ I don't think I birdied one of the par 5s, and I think if you're going to play well at this golf course, you've got to take advantage of those holes.   
So hopefully the next three days I can do a better job of that.   I feel like I hit some good iron shots.   My distance control was a little off.   I kept coming up short after thinking I hit some pretty good shots.   So I need to make a little adjustment to that going forward just to try to get the ball pin‑high.   These greens are tough to get the ball close, so hopefully get my distance down a little better.  
   
 Q.   Must be pleasing that you are still within touch, even though there's quite a few things to work on.   
BO VAN PELT:   Oh, no, for sure, this is a good golf course.   Having not played a tournament in five or six weeks, you never know how you're going to play right off the bat.   I was pleased overall how I played.   
Obviously you always think you can shoot lower, but no, it was a good way to start the tournament, and so hopefully we can just keep building on that the rest of the week.   
   
 Q.   With some of those distance shots, was it just the conditions or‑‑  
BO VAN PELT:   I think a little bit of both.   I caught a couple of them a little bit on the bottom of the club, which is going to take a little distance off.   I think last year the temperature was a little warmer and the greens might have been bouncing just a little bit more.   
So I think I was reverting back to last year planning on that ball jumping a little more and a little warmer temperature.   I think finally the last couple holes felt like I was getting better at it but I was still off just a little bit.   
So hopefully we'll get it dialed in a little bit better tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   What's the main focus for tomorrow going out in the afternoon, might be more of a breeze about?   
BO VAN PELT:   Yeah, hopefully I'll just keep driving it well.   Drove it well most of the day and hopefully just get the par 5s.   I think it takes a lot of pressure off your game if you can birdie those par 5s.   There's some good par 3s and long par 4s where if you make par is a good score.   
So hopefully just get those short irons dialed in, the par5s and hopefully have a little better score.  
   
 Q.   Came up short at the 8th there; make that adjustment tomorrow, as well?   
BO VAN PELT:   Yeah, that one I thought was good.   I only needed about three inches there, so I was happy to come away with a par.   That was a tough bunker shot.   
Again I thought it was a good shot.   Just a foot short.   But no, it's a great hole, and it's one of those holes you just have to get in the middle of the green.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT