CIMB CLASSIC
October 28, 2012
Bo Van Pelt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Not a bad couple weeks for you. 
BO VAN PELT:   Yeah, I think if you would have told me before the week started I would have finished second, I would have felt pretty good about it.   Obviously had a good chance there today with the lead going into the last day.   I felt like I played pretty good.   I think I only missed two greens today, so whenever you have the lead and go out and hit it like that, you're happy.
I'll probably look back at the two doubles I made during the week without a penalty shot that probably ended up costing me in the end.   But all in all, it was a great week.   It was the first time I was ever able to defend.   You've got to tip your cap; a guy goes out and shoots 10‑under, he just wins the golf tournament, and that's what happened today.   Big congratulations to Nick.   He's a great player, and he just went out and just won the golf tournament.

Q.   Didn't seem like you lost it, it seemed like a 61 won it today. 
BO VAN PELT:   Yeah, I think Robert and I both played good enough to win the golf tournament.   He hit it great, Robert did, and missed some putts that I know he would like to have back.   I had a couple, I felt like I was going good, I missed a little one on 7 there for birdie, kind of stopped my momentum there in the middle of the round.   But made a couple there at the end to make it interesting. 
So yeah, you've just got to tip your cap.   Every once in a while a guy comes from the pack and shoots a low number and wins the golf tournament, and that's what happened today.

Q.   Seemed like 17 and 18, did you know what you needed?   Talk us through the last maybe three holes. 
BO VAN PELT:   Yeah, there's not a ton of scoreboards out there, so I wasn't really paying attention to what was going on.   I looked up, I had a birdie putt on 13 and I saw that Nick was going good, and I heard a little roar that he had birdied 15, and so I thought, wow, we need to make some birdies to try and catch this guy.   With his length, you're expecting him to birdie 17. 
I hit a really good putt on 13, just didn't do what I thought it was going to do.
And then long putt on 14, and I thought, just keep trying to make some birdies and you never know. 
I heard the roar that he birdied 16, and I thought, wow, this isn't looking very good.   I said, just try to make some birdies to finish strong and finish the right way.
He let us have a little bit of chance there with him bogeying 18.   Obviously felt good on 18.   I don't think I had missed a fairway other than 17 and 18 all day.   I didn't hit a very good tee shot there and got a good break.   It was funny, I had the exact same shot I had yesterday, ball below my feet with a 9‑iron.   I was just trying to hit it‑‑ I thought it was going to jump and come out straight and it came out right just like yesterday, so I guess I need to practice that shot.   I've got something to practice.
But no, it was a fun week, like I said, to come back and defend and to have a chance after getting off to a bad start was fun, and every time you give yourself a chance to win, you learn something from it, and I'll definitely take what I learned today.

Q.   Next year it's an official event.   You should get something for having played so well here the first two years. 
BO VAN PELT:   Well, I'm just looking forward to coming back.   I'll definitely put it on the schedule and hopefully Perth will be around the same time and just have a nice stretch overseas once the regular season is done.   It's hot, but it's a fun place to come, and I've enjoyed my two times here, so looking forward to coming. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT