ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 20, 2012
Bo Van Pelt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  STEVE TODD:   Thanks for joining us again.   Good day on the course, 67, one‑shot lead.   Your thoughts on today? 
BO VAN PELT:   Yeah, obviously pleased with the score.   Felt good starting out.   Made birdie on the first and had a good warm up and felt good, and after the first, the next, oh, four or five holes, got out of rhythm and hit some pretty poor shots.   Knocked it on the green in two on 7 kind of calmed me down and found my rhythm again.
It was funny, we had a pretty long wait on 7 tee.   I had just made bogey and he made birdie and we had about a 15‑minute wait on the tee, and it helped.   Just kind of got me back in my rhythm and re‑focused on way was trying to do.   The last 12 holes, I don't think I missed a green and was able to go 5‑under the rest of the way. 
So was definitely happy, shooting that kind of score today, it was a tough day out there.
STEVE TODD:   Talk us through that ending; what a way to finish. 
BO VAN PELT:   Yeah, once in awhile a hole just gets in the way.   Felt like I hit a pretty good second shot, just carried about five yards farther, was right in‑between clubs.   I didn't feel like 9‑iron with a little bit of hurting wind could carry and didn't want to leave it in the bunker short. 
So I was trying to take a little bit off 8‑iron and it just flighted a little bit and the wind dropped a little bit and it just carried a little too far.   So I was just trying to get the ball down there and 2‑putt and get out of there, and lo and behold, goes in the hole. 

Q.   Inaudible.
BO VAN PELT:   I would say it was close to 60, 55 feet. 

Q.   When something like that happens, does it feel‑‑
BO VAN PELT:   Well, there's still a lot of golf to be played.   It was just nice to finish with some momentum to the day and not finish with like a 3‑putt and finish with a five and kind of kill the momentum that I had on the back nine.   It was just nice to finish with a birdie like that and hopefully take that into tomorrow. 

Q.   Emiliano Grillo's play today ‑‑
BO VAN PELT:   You know, he played a lot better than his score today.   I hope he takes something from that, for such a young player, his upside is tremendous.   He's going to have a great career and win a lot of tournaments. 
He probably had five or six putts that looked like they were going to go in that just hit the edge, and that's just golf.   Some days they go in and some days they hit the edge.   I'm sure he's not pleased with his final score but he did not play poorly today at all, after being on the lead for two days. 
So I hope as a young guy he takes that with him and continues to play the way he's playing.   He's got a beautiful putting stroke and some days, they just hit the edge instead of going in, and he had that four or five times today where they just as easily could have gone in. 

Q.   With momentum heading into tomorrow‑‑
BO VAN PELT:   Yeah, I've been on both sides of that.   I had about an 8‑footer for par that was pretty important for me at the PGA on Sunday and Rory McIlroy just makes a 15‑footer for birdie and the tournament's over.   I've been there, and it's not a fun situation. 
You know, there's not a lot you can do about it.   Obviously I was not expecting to make mine, and I know I learned from it when it happened to me at the PGA and hopefully I'll handle it better next time.   I'm sure that he will‑‑ it was a tough putt right there on the front of the green and the greens were getting firm and crusty a little bit out there.   You know, anything around the hole, it was tough. 
So I'm sure he'll learn from that and be better for it. 

Q.   Inaudible.
BO VAN PELT:   Yeah, even though I haven't played a tournament in a few weeks, I've been practicing pretty consistently for last ten or 12 days before I came over.   And my golf coach, Mark Wood, flew in from New Jersey for two days, I believe it was Wednesday and Thursday of last week, and we got some pretty good work in.   The weather was good in Oklahoma. 
Felt like I was swinging at it well, especially compared to THE TOUR Championship, I had got a little off that week.   We had some good thoughts going into this week, and it was just nice that it carried over on the plane flight over.   I've been able to strike the ball kind of the way I was before I left. 

Q.   Where do you go from here?
BO VAN PELT:   I'm playing the CIMB next week in Malaysia and then I'll be home for a while and then I'm going to play Tiger's tournament, the Chevron, at the end of November, first of December, and that will be it until January when I'll start the PGA TOUR season. 

Q.   What is your strategy with the lead ‑‑
BO VAN PELT:   Play the same.   Jason is a great player, Grillo is playing well and he's probably going to come out and probably shoot a low one tomorrow. 
Like I said all week, the golf course, you've got to drive the ball straight and then put the ball in position on the greens, because they have a lot of slope and they are getting firm and they are getting fast. 
So if you get the ball above the hole, it's tough to make birdies.   You've got to try to take advantage of the par 5s.   I think I got three of the four today, and that's really where you can shoot some scores on this golf course and if you play the rest of the course close to even par, you can play well. 

Q.   What was the tournament where you were on the 18th with Rory‑‑
BO VAN PELT:   The PGA Championship at Kiawah this year.   I was in the final group. 
You just have to pick up your mark and go in.   It's kind of anticlimactic after the guy just wins by seven or eight or what he did.   And everybody was ready to just enjoy the win and Carl Pettersson and I still had to putt the par putts that we had.   It was not a fun feeling for sure. 

Q.   How many are there‑‑
BO VAN PELT:   Probably ten.   I think I was two the first day, five yesterday and then three today. 

Q.   What do you think of the golf course?
BO VAN PELT:   I like it.   I told somebody the other day it reminds me a little bit of Tampa, Innisbrook, the look of it.   I've always enjoyed that golf course. 
To me there's a lot of strategy involved in this golf course.   You just don't bang the ball up everywhere.   You have to understand where the pins are and how you want to attack it.   It puts a premium on driving the golf ball which I enjoy golf courses that do that. 
There's variety.   You've got par 3s that are 120, 150, 220, 200, and I love to see that.   To me, there's nothing worse than a golf course that all four par 3s, you hit the same club. 
You know, other than a couple of the holes that kind of go up and over the hill, I think there's three that look the same but the other 15 have a totally different look.   It's just a joy to play. 

Q.   (Golf courses in Australia).
BO VAN PELT:   No, it's great.   I have not played a bad‑‑ all of the ones I've seen in Australia, I've only seen three but they have all been fantastic.   I know from my standpoint in the United States, our perception of Australian golf courses is that it's very high. 
Royal Melbourne, I've never played it, but around the world, it's held in high regard.   I've played Royal Adelaide, played Kooyonga, I've played here and they have all been fantastic. 
To me the thing I like about them is the variety.   I think they are well designed.   You never see a green that doesn't match what the hole is supposed to do.   The wind usually blows, and I love the fact how the designers take that into consideration and give you choices, let you run the ball up. 
I think they have not over‑thought how to make a golf course here which is refreshing.   I think sometimes we do that in the United States. 
STEVE TODD:   Thanks for joining us, good luck tomorrow.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT