ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 19, 2012
Bo Van Pelt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  STEVE TODD:   Many thanks for joining us again.   A round of 67 there today, and you've put yourself right at the leaderboard.   Just talk us through how you assess today.  
BO VAN PELT:   All in all it was a solid day.   I would say the biggest dishes from today from yesterday, I think I played the par 5s 5‑under.   I think I was only 2‑under on them yesterday, so that was kind of the difference in the round.     
I think I only missed three greens, so I was driving the ball in play, and you know, was able to take advantage of the par 5s like I said.   
It's funny, the last two days, I've had kind of the same thing happen there in the middle of the round.   I was just in front of the green on No. 1 today and made par after a pretty easy chip and then bogeyed the next hole with a pitching wedge.   I did the same thing yesterday.   I was right in front of the green on 11, after just making two birdies in a row and didn't get up‑and‑down, and I bogeyed 12 with a pitching wedge off the tee.   
So hopefully I can eliminate that over the weekend, kind of killed my momentum the last two days, but all in all, 7‑under, I'm very pleased.   I haven't played a tournament in a few weeks, so you know, I like the golf course a lot.   
It's a very challenging golf course and it's fun to play.   To shoot 5‑under and 2‑under, you know, in a decent position going into the weekend, I'm very excited.  
STEVE TODD:   Just take us through the last three holes.  
BO VAN PELT:   7 is a good par 5.   It was playing downwind and I hit a good drive.   I hit a 4‑iron in there and was lucky enough to get it up enough in the air to where ‑‑ off that downslope so the ball would set on the green.   Had a pretty simple putt up the hill.   I just was a little outside the right and was able to make it probably 25 feet for eagle.  
And on 8, I hit a really good shot.   It's a tough par 3.   I had a long putt, Stephen Leaney had the same putt; he was just in front me and he left his a couple feet short and I hit it just a little hard.   Hit a really good second putt, thought I made it and unfortunately did not.   
And then on 9, I hit 3‑wood there yesterday and caught the bunker so my caddie and I, Mark Chaney, decided we had the same wind and we were going to hit driver.   Hit a really good drive up there, put myself in position with a sand wedge and was able to hit one close and finish with a birdie, which definitely makes lunch taste a little bit better.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel your score reflected the way you played?   
BO VAN PELT:   I thought it pretty much reflected how I played, with getting all the par5s and an eagle there, you'd like to think that you can shoot even par on the other 14 holes.   
So you know, still there was a couple short iron shots I felt like were a little loose, but that's just something that comes from being a little rusty.   But all in all, I was pleased with how I was swinging the club before I got here.   It's just nice that it's kind of transferred over to the week.   Just excited about the opportunity.   Last time I was in Australia, I didn't get to play the weekend, so nice to get to play the weekend.   
   
 Q.   (Wind direction) ‑‑  
BO VAN PELT:   I just played the Pro‑Am was the only round I had.   I feel like we had a pretty good idea.   As long as the wind stays out of the same direction, I feel like we have a pretty good game plan for the golf course.   It reminds me of a couple golf courses I play back in the States, and so just feel pretty familiar with it.   
So as long as I can continue to drive the ball well, I think it's a very important thing to putt the ball in play here.   There's trouble pretty much on both sides of every hole.   So far I've been able to keep the golf course in front of me, so hopefully I'll be able to continue to do that over the weekend.   
   
 Q.   Last time you were here ‑‑ did that play in your mind‑‑  
BO VAN PELT:   Well, I was definitely in a different place.   Yeah, that was nine years ago and I switched every club I played and the ball I was playing the first time I had ever flown that far to play.   
I was just kind of chuckling inside hoping that I didn't come over here and lay an egg like I did last time.   
   
 Q.   What courses does it remind you of in the States?   
BO VAN PELT:   To me it reminds me of Tampa that we play at Innisbrook.   There's a lot of holes that kind of go up and over hills.   It just kind of has that feel when you walk around.   Obviously it has bermudagreens, so it's a little bit different.   But to me it just feels like that golf course when you walk around it.  
I've had a pretty good record at Innisbrook, and so from the time I saw it‑‑ you know, Innisbrook has a lot of really good par 3s, kind of like this golf course.   And it just has that feel when you walk around it, to me; even though the grass, the bermudarough, is a little bit different at Innisbrook.   But just felt real comfortable from the time I got here.   
   
 Q.   Inaudible.  
BO VAN PELT:   It was the Web.com in Adelaide, we played there and in New Zealand.   Those were the two that they used to have.   
   
 Q.   (Confident in your position going into the weekend)?   
BO VAN PELT:   Yeah, I wouldn't say very confident.   Like I said, there's a lot of great players here.   But I think I was five back going into today, and whenever you're that far back, you try to shrink it going into the weekend.   
So hopefully I'll be closer than five back when the day's end and hopefully after tomorrow do the same thing, get a little bit closer.   You try to have a chance to win with nine holes to go on Sunday.   That's something my caddie and I always talk about is just trying to give ourselves a chance on Sunday, and then you just never know what will happen.   
But I feel good about what I'm trying to do in my golf swing, and the putter feels pretty good.   So just going to try to come out here tomorrow and do the same thing.   
   
 Q.   (What do you think the winning score will be)?   
BO VAN PELT:   Well, you know, there were a couple guys at 7 going into today.   You would think that if you had to guess one of them, I would guess maybe 10, 11.   It seems even in the States, the scores shrink a little bit on the weekend.   It's not like they double.   If ten was leading, it's not like it always goes to 20.   It might go to 15 or 16.   They can definitely tuck the pins on some of those holes out there.   
You know, who knows.   I'm not very good at picking a score.   So I would say probably in the mid‑teens would probably have a good shot.   
STEVE TODD:   Thank you, best of luck tomorrow.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT