SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 16, 2014
Bo Van Pelt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about today, what you feel like you did well. 
BO VAN PELT:   You know, I hit the ball pretty solid, had a couple good days of work.   My coach, Mark Wood, has been in town and felt like we keyed on a couple good things and then rolled the ball nice.   It's always nice, I hit two good shots and made about a 12‑footer on 10.   I think sometimes when you make one early, it just feels like you've got a chance to make a few today.   Obviously playing with Russell and Bryce, they both played well.   Russell got to off a great start, and you feel like when the momentum is good in the group, you want to just keep feeding off that.

Q.   What did you do in the off‑season?
BO VAN PELT:   Just took some time off and watches my kids' sports and practiced some, tried to tighten up some stuff in my short game.   I don't think you can ever get too good at 100 yards and in, so I think when I get time off, that's always the main stuff I always practice.

Q.   Where do you feel like your game is at right now?
BO VAN PELT:   It's gotten better.   I got off to a bad start last year, but I feel like pretty much since May of this year, I've played decent.   Not great, but it's been trending in the right direction, so hopefully it'll continue, and play well‑‑ I'm going to play four events this fall.   Obviously I've already played one, so I've got this one and two more, and hopefully get off to a good start for the year.

Q.   Was there something that started in May that you feel like you've addressed?
BO VAN PELT:   Well, I had just gotten in some bad habits with my setup and just a couple things that have gotten away from me that I used to do a good job of, so it's just going back to basics.   It's like that for most guys out here.   We've all been doing it so long, it's not really reinventing the wheel, it's like, hey, there must be something out of whack.   Let's look at some old video, go, oh, wait, why am I doing that? 

Q.   Just fundamental stuff?
BO VAN PELT:   Uh‑huh. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT