BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 9, 2012
Bo Van Pelt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just summarize the week for you and how you felt about playing here.  
BO VAN PELT:   Oh, man, it was great. It was probably better than I could have imagined. The fans were great. It was fun to hear everybody cheer your name, and it's been a long time since I've been back here to play golf. Obviously I would have liked to have finished a little better. I felt like I had some chances today to make a run at it, and made a good putt on the first hole and after that didn't make much. But all in all just had a great time.  
   
 Q.   You shot 1‑under today, but it's just hard to keep up with those guys when they keep making all those birdies, isn't it?   
BO VAN PELT:   Well, it was more just I didn't make enough. I hit it close I think the whole back nine other than one hole, and I just didn't make anything. I gave myself plenty of looks to get close to 18‑ or 20‑under, and the putter didn't cooperate.  
   
 Q.   How would you like to see more PGA TOUR, bigger events, come here and other courses in Indiana?  
BO VAN PELT:   No question, there's plenty of good golf courses in Indianapolis and there's plenty of great companies. Obviously the fans did a great job supporting it. It's a great time to come visit. I don't think there's any doubt that Indianapolis ought to have a regular TOUR event.  
   
 Q.   I asked you initially on day one what your impression was of the fans. What is it now, now that you've played a tournament here?  
BO VAN PELT:   It was great. Obviously people were enthusiastic to be here. They were respectful but they had a good time, and you can't ask for much more than that.  
   
 Q.   Did you personally feel and see and hear the support?  
BO VAN PELT:   Oh, every hole. It was great. We don't play that close to here very often, so people have been waiting a long time. I have a lot of people that have supported me from day one, and it was just great to hear them all yelling my name.  
   
 Q.   Did this golf course play just as you expected it, or did Pete throw a little wrinkle in there, especially with this weather?  
BO VAN PELT:   Well, I don't think the golf course played the way that the tournament or the people wanted it here just from all the rain they had, but I felt it held up great. The greens rolled nice, and you can't control Mother Nature. I think it was still a great test of golf. When you look at the leaderboard that you've got here this weekend, you can't ask for much more than that.  
   
 Q.   What does it mean to you to make the TOUR Championship?  
BO VAN PELT:   It's great. Somebody told me the other day I think there's only eight or nine guys that have done it three years in a row. I've done it three years in a row, and I think I've only had one top 10 in the Playoffs in three years, so that's pretty tough to do when you're talking five times the points. I'll take a lot of pride in that, that I'm one of nine guys that did it, and I didn't really sneak in there, either, with having just one good tournament in the Playoffs. So I'm pretty excited.  
   
 Q.   Will there be some time to hang around in town now that the tournament is over?  
BO VAN PELT:   No, I've been gone for two weeks. Rickie Fowler is waiting on me, so I'm getting back to Tulsa. I'll be there in about two hours.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT