BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 6, 2012
Bo Van Pelt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  BO VAN PELT:   Stay aggressive.   That's just what I kept telling myself as I was making birdies early, just to keep going, because I knew if it seemed like it was playing easy for me, it was probably playing easy for anybody.

Q.   Has it been easy for you to stay aggressive?
BO VAN PELT:   No, I mean, I guess‑‑ I was a little disappointed in 13 through 15.   I had three really good looks there inside 10 feet and didn't make any of them.   It's something I've been trying to work on when I've been playing well is to take advantage of my opportunities.   I was upset that I didn't make any of those three, but it was nice to finish with a birdie.

Q.   With all the golf you've played, did you still have any nerves prior to this round starting or any time today? 
BO VAN PELT:   No, I've been doing this a long time and obviously was excited to play in front of my home state and a lot of friends and family and obviously wanted to do well, but I definitely wouldn't call it nerves, just more excitement.   I was ready to get going. 
I've been doing it long enough, I'm not a big fan of practice rounds and all this stuff before, just get my to Thursday.

Q.   Webb said that if you weren't playing lift, clean and place he probably would have shot 80 because there was so much mud on the ball.   Your thoughts?
BO VAN PELT:   Yeah, there was definitely a bunch of mud on the ball.   I think the rules staff made the right decision.   I know a few years ago we played Sunday at 84 Lumber on a day like this and balls were going all over the place.   I don't think that's fun for anybody to watch.   To me I think the people of Indiana are having fun watching guys play well and making birdies, so I think they made the right call.

Q.   Is there any part of you as a competitor who didn't get picked for the Ryder Cup, do you have a show‑you kind of thing?
BO VAN PELT:   No, I'm not a spiteful person.   To me the way I was raised, you handle your own business, and I didn't finish in the top 8 so I didn't have anybody to blame but myself. 

Q.   An Indiana guy is playing well at the BMW at Crooked Stick.   How special is this for you?
BO VAN PELT:   Oh, definitely.   This is where it all started for me.   The first year the Indiana Junior Tour started, I was playing it.   I grew up here, all my family still lives back here.   Never had a chance to play in Indiana before.   It's a big deal for me.   I want to play well. 

Q.   You're making the most of the moment here. 
BO VAN PELT:   We're trying.

Q.   To make the Ryder Cup team in your own head what did you think you need to do, get inside the top 8?
BO VAN PELT:   You know, I thought if I got inside the top 8 that was the way to get on‑‑ to me I looked at‑‑ I'm not a big stats guy.   I think somebody told me I had to have the most top 10s the last three years on the PGA TOUR, I think that's a pretty good sample size versus two tournaments. 
But like I said, the bigger issue is if you don't finish inside the top 8, you really don't have a complaint in my book. 

Q.   The first time you came here you just got your driver's license.   What does it mean to you to play here?
BO VAN PELT:   Oh, it's great.   Like I said, I was a kid last time I was here when I was 16.   I was stealing practice balls off the range and trying to avoid the lightning.   To come back here and get to play in this tournament, it's a dream come true for me, and to get to play in front of friends and family is always special.

Q.   With the scores being what they are, are we looking at 20‑under on Sunday or what do you think? 
BO VAN PELT:   You know, somebody asked me that last night, and there's so many guys playing well that are in this tournament, guys like Rory and Dustin and Tiger, guys that hit it a long way, that this golf course is going to set up good for them.   I thought 20‑under was probably about right. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT