BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2012
Bo Van Pelt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You had a little bit of time on the course out there today.   What's your early impression?   
BO VAN PELT:   The golf course is in good shape.   It's a little soft with the rain over the weekend, but the rough is high so you'd better drive it in the fairway.   
   
 Q.   You've only seen the front, right?  
BO VAN PELT:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Does it favor a long player?   What do you think?   
BO VAN PELT:   Yeah, definitely.   I think the ball is not rolling too much in the fairway, so guys that are hitting it long and carrying it a long way are definitely going to have an advantage this week.   You definitely have to put it in play.   The rough is high.   Especially with this rain here, I don't think they're going to top it off or cut it the rest of the week.   The fairways are at a premium, but distance, there's no substitute for that.   
   
 Q.   I've heard 14 is going to be pretty tough.   Any holes you think could get some people or help some others?   
BO VAN PELT:   Well, obviously with a Pete Dye golf course there's always danger lurking on certain holes.   If you miss a shot, you're going to be in a bad spot.   Definitely have to put the ball in play.   But any of those holes with water, 8, 14, some of those, definitely 18, any of those, if you don't drive it in the right spot, you're going to have an issue.  
   
 Q.   With the rain delay are you going back out there today?  
BO VAN PELT:   I haven't heard anything yet, so I'm not going to speculate.   We just got done with the third, so we'll let this weather pass and see what they have in store for us.  
   
 Q.   Aside from the course, what's your impression of Crooked Stick?   You're a local.   
BO VAN PELT:   Yeah, it's a great place.   It's a tremendous club.   It's kind of a flagship course for Indiana.   They did a great job in '91 hosting us then.   In my opinion it took too long to get something back here with the PGA TOUR.   It's good to be back.   I know Indianapolis is excited to have a tournament, BMW is a great sponsor, and I think it's going to show off well this week.  
   
 Q.   I know they're saying that very few guys in this field have played here, but you've played here?  
BO VAN PELT:   Yeah, not too much.   I played here, I think, one time growing up, and I was here in '91 and watched as a spectator.   I wouldn't say I have any local advantage.   I'll get some home cooking at my sister's house, so that's about it.  
   
 Q.   You go way back with Tiger in junior golf, don't you?  
BO VAN PELT:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Were you paired with him at all back then?  
BO VAN PELT:   Not so much in junior golf but obviously in college and amateur golf and then out here.   
   
 Q.   He's on his third swing coach and getting real close again.   What do you look for?   Do you think he's got some great years left?  
BO VAN PELT:   Yeah, absolutely.   I played with him the last two rounds at AT&T, and I think he went 41 holes without a bogey, and he was still working on stuff, and his rhythm was great.   I think he's had some really good form.   He gets the putter going a little bit, look out.   He hasn't putted as well as he used to, and I think it's just a case where when you're working that hard on your golf swing you only have so many hours in the day.   You don't have as much time for your short game.   But it seems like he's got a pretty good handle on what he's trying to do with the golf swing.   I think he's just going to continue to play better and better.  
   
 Q.   Have you seen anybody that really wanted to putt and they just couldn't make it?  
BO VAN PELT:   I mean, I say all the time, he's the best player, the best putter that there's ever been.   It's a big drop to No.2.   He went 12 years, I never saw him miss a putt that mattered, so that's a pretty good statement.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT