RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2012
Bo Van Pelt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You played well last year, coming back again this year and put yourself in position?  
BO VAN PELT:   Yeah, I like this golf course, and I had a good finish today.   It got me a little bit closer to the lead.   So I'm looking forward to the weekend and having an opportunity.  
   
 Q.   What can you tell us about that shot on the last hole?   
BO VAN PELT:   It was kind of between 8‑iron and 9‑iron.   The wind was blowing when we first got up there, and luckily the wind died down, it was a perfect 9‑iron.   Even without going in, it was the best iron shot I hit all day.   Lo and behold, get lucky, and the thing goes in for a 2.  
   
 Q.   It was a 4‑under round, but it sounds like you didn't probably play as well as you did yesterday.   It was just the eagle out there?   
BO VAN PELT:   Yeah, you know, I had some good looks early on and was under par early but just kind of couldn't get any momentum going.   I wasn't hitting the ball as close.   
I had some good looks and made a bogey on 2.   Just kind of flat there in the middle of the round, didn't birdie the par‑5, 4.   But I had a good up‑and‑down on 5.   Lo and behold, I make probably the toughest putt I've had in two days on number 7.   It was a big curler off the fringe and then to make eagle on the last.   
It was just nice.   I was trying to get something under par in and not shoot even or over par today.  
   
 Q.   Your playing partner had a good round today?  
BO VAN PELT:   Yeah, he just kind of had that look.   The first couple holes he hit it dead on.   I think three of the first four holes, balls were flying dead straight right at it.   He's a world class player.   He's had some injuries that he's had to deal with, but when he's on, he's fun to watch.  
   
 Q.   You were leading this tournament going into the final round, I believe, last year.   What do you take from that going into this week?   What kind of challenge is that?   
BO VAN PELT:   I think it's a little different this year because it's a different golf course.   The experience I had two or three weeks ago at AT&T being in the final group the last two days probably helped me a little bit.   But it's still golf.   You've got to execute shots.   This golf course is not going to get any easier the last two days.   
If you hit quality shots, you have a chance to win it.   If you don't, you're going to fall back.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT