MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2012
Bo Van Pelt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You hit 6‑iron?  
BO VAN PELT:   Yeah, 6‑iron.  
   
 Q.   Where did it land?  
BO VAN PELT:   Just two or three paces past the hole and on the right side, kind of right into the slope there.  
   
 Q.   Where you were aiming last year and missed by two or three paces?  
BO VAN PELT:   Yeah.   I reminded myself to be more aggressive on my line.   That's kind of what I learned last year, instead of aiming for the slope, the wind was coming off the left, and I told myself to make sure I aimed it at the flag because I knew I wasn't going to miss it left, so I just kind of took what I learned last year and it ended up being a perfect spot.  
   
 Q.   The irony being you were within one of the lead.   
BO VAN PELT:   Yeah that's exactly what I said to Verplank, I was just one year late.   
   
 Q.   What was your daughter's reaction?  
BO VAN PELT:   Yeah I didn't see to get her.   I got the high‑five after the round, which is great, but she was out there on 16 green, so I'm glad she got to see it.  
   
 Q.   How old is she?  
BO VAN PELT:   She's 10.  
   
 Q.   What was the difference today for you?   
BO VAN PELT:   You know, I just finally got in a good rhythm throughout the rest of my bag.   My driver had been great all week.   I had been driving it really well.   But my putter, it was funny, last year I putted terrible all year, but this is the one week I putted really good, and this year I putted good all year, and this was the one week I haven't putted very well.   My speed control and just kind of getting the ball‑‑ I've had a bunch lip out and caught a bunch of lips, and today just the pace of my putter was better and the pace of my irons was better.   That's what my coach and I talked about last year.   
We worked really hard on it in my warm‑up today, and I think I just tried to really stick with that.   My rhythm and the pace of my whole game just kind of slowed all day.  
   
 Q.   Take us through the eagle on 13.   
BO VAN PELT:   You know, it's funny, I've hit four really good drives there all week, and I literally hit it‑‑ I was probably six feet from where I hit it last year.   Last year I had to put one foot in the straw and this year I was kind of two paces up, and normally it would have been a 6‑iron and the wind switched right where I was going to hit it and I had to choke down a 5, which was the exact same club I hit last year, and it started off right at it.   I thought that one was going in to be honest.   When it hit and it was rolling right at it, I've never made a double eagle, and as it was rolling, I thought, holy cow, I'm going to make a 2 at Augusta on a par‑5, and it just stopped two inches short or something.  
   
 Q.   What was the yardage, number, roughly?  
BO VAN PELT:   It was like 198 to the hole, I think.   
   
 Q.   Had you made kind of a mess of 16 this week, as well?   Obviously you had a double out there.   
BO VAN PELT:   Yeah, I had a double on Friday, pulled it there and it kind of hit the slope and rolled down.   Every day I had kind of made a mess from kind of 14 on in, just hadn't‑‑ I've had a couple good looks at birdie and missed them, then I bogeyed 15 twice and never hit it in the water, and then 16 I made the one double.   I made bogey yesterday.   So my last five holes have been pretty poor.   So it was nice to finish well today.  
   
 Q.   Is there any part of you when you finish like this, you look back and say, man, a couple of shots‑‑  
BO VAN PELT:   Well, it's just golf.   There's no guarantee.   We'd all like to pick and choose when we have a good round, but we don't get to do that.   So you've just got to keep trying to do the same things week in and week out, trying to get better, and then some days you shoot 64 on the first day and you don't end up winning the golf tournament.   You don't get to pick and choose your good days and your good weeks.   For me I knew I was close, closer than what my scores had shown the first three days, so it's nice to put a good one together going into next week.   Obviously everybody wants to have their best week this week, but I've got to go play again next week, that's what I do for a living, so hopefully I carry that into Hilton Head.   
   
 Q.   Can you take us through 7, 11 and 12?   
BO VAN PELT:   Yeah, 7, I hit a good shot in there.   I just made a mistake.   I was trying to hit it left of the flag because it comes back left of the flag, and I hit it just right of it and I had about a six‑ or eight‑footer downhill, and it just didn't break.   Normally that putt hooks a lot, and it just stayed high.   
11, I hit a really good shot in there about ten feet behind the hole and missed it.  
12, I birdied that once this week from about two feet, and the other three times I hit the hole.   I mean, I almost birdied it all four days.   I had about a 15‑footer, and I didn't think it could miss, and it just kind of stayed high and caught the high lip.  
   
 Q.   All three of those were 15 feet or closer?  
BO VAN PELT:   Oh, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Talk about 18.   
BO VAN PELT:   You know, I had driven it perfect all day.   I hadn't missed a fairway all day, and I was just really trying to concentrate on hitting one more good drive.   That's what I told myself, don't end on a bad one.   I was real proud of that.   I hit a good drive there.   I had mud over half my ball.   That's the problem, the left side is where you want to hit it.   It's hard to hit it down the right side, but all the mud balls are on the left.   Luckily it was pretty much all in the center, and it was a little on the right side, so I knew it was going to hook a little.   Luckily for me the wind was left to right, so I hit a little draw, and the wind just straightened it up perfect.   I had a good yardage with a 7‑iron, so that's what made it nice.  
Then you just get lucky, you catch the slope, and then obviously it came down and got real close.   
   
 Q.   Did you think about 63 at all after that hole‑in‑one?  
BO VAN PELT:   No, not really.   To me I was just‑‑ after you make a hole‑in‑one you get so excited, you're just really trying to focus on hitting a good drive on 17.   17 is a tough driving hole.   Luckily it was downwind when I teed off, so I was just really trying to focus there and hit a good tee ball.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT