WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 4, 2011
Bo Van Pelt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Reflect on, how well did you do today?
 BO VAN PELT: You know, I was going pretty well. Played pretty good through 10. Made a bad swing on 11 with my driver, made bogey. 
 And then I did it again on 13. Kind of hit a bad drive. Made a bogey there. I had some good looks, didn't convert on the back nine, but always nice to finish with a birdie. Any time you're in the 60s, you should be pretty pleased. Didn't feel like I hit the ball as well as I may be have yesterday, but happy to be out and get out of there with a 65, that's for sure. 
 I hit three bad drives. 18 was downwind and I hit a pretty good drive, I hit 5-iron there and was able to make a 2-putt birdie, which always makes lunch taste a little better. Every shot counts. 

 Q. How were conditions? It felt particularly humid today. 
 BO VAN PELT: Yeah, it was definitely more humid today but I don't think anybody was complaining because the forecast wasn't too good and we were able to stay dry all day, which to me was a bonus. Hopefully the weather will hold out for the last two days. 

 Q. Given what we experienced on Tuesday, the greens were pretty hard and potentially fiery, and now everything is that little about the softer. 
 BO VAN PELT: Yeah, a little bit more receptive. So some of the tucked pins, if you drive it in the fairway -- they just were playing it safe in case it rained which was the right call. If you drove it in the fairway, you could definitely attack some of those pins, which you see a couple of low rounds today.
 But the golf course is in great shape and for the amount of rain they had, it's held up beautifully.
 It's nice to keep it going. Just trying to keep the same thoughts that I had last week going. Obviously I played great last week and just trying to do the same things, and just trying to conserve my energy a little bit. 
 It's been a long two weeks and especially with the heat last week, it takes a lot out of you, so I'm just trying to conserve and hopefully have enough in the tank for this weekend. Not trying to over-exert myself. Definitely trying to rest and get something good to heat and save all of my energy for that four or five hours on the golf course, for sure. 

 Q. So you're obviously doing really well; what would you say to the guys that have not travelled like you have? 
 BO VAN PELT: Well, I think you just have to have a good attitude going in. It's going to be different than home. That's why it's not home. I think that if you just have a good perspective and take mind-set that you're going to enjoy the experience -- for me, it's like, when else am I ever going to see this part of the world and get paid to do it.
 I didn't want to look back until my career is gone and say I didn't take advantage of the opportunity. I've got three small kids at home, and when they get a chance to go do something fun, I want them to take advantage of it, and if I don't do that I'm not setting a very good example. I just try to have a good attitude coming over here and try to enjoy the experience, the two weeks that I was going to be over here and then enjoy when I get home as well.

 Q. Working out pretty well?
 BO VAN PELT: Yeah, so far so good, so hopefully have two more good rounds, and you never know. 
 Just enjoyed my time so far, and like I said, keep a smile on my face and enjoy these last two days and then look forward to getting home.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT