THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2011
Bo Van Pelt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Can you talk about the conditions out there?
 BO VAN PELT: It was blowing really hard and rained pretty hard most of the day. You know, the golf course is playing brutal on every shot. 3-over with not making any birdies, I was really pleased.

 Q. Is there one hole out there in particular that really surprised you? 
 BO VAN PELT: I had a ball roll back. Luckily I hadn't addressed the ball, but on 10, the ball, I set it down and walked back to read the putt and it blew back two inches. 4, they moved the tee up, and I thought I hit a good drive and it cleared the bunkers but it was still on the side slope. I couldn't believe how short it went, and I hit a good one. That hole I made 5 and I was like, that was a heck of a par because that hole was playing like a par-5 today. 
 It was just nonstop. Every shot was pretty brutal out there.

 Q. On a day like today is it more mental than physical?
 BO VAN PELT: Yeah, for sure. If you've got any quit in you it's going to be a long day. You've just got to kind of laugh it off and just bang it out. It's nonstop, and if you let up, you can make a big number in a hurry out there. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 BO VAN PELT: Yeah, my senior year in college with played at Prairie Dunes in Hutchinson, Kansas, which is in the top 20 or 30 courses in the world. It's a links course. It was like this but it was about 40 degrees, and we had to play 36 holes in one day and we didn't stop, we just kept going. I was having flashbacks to -- that was the worst day of my life, yeah, absolutely. 

 Q. This doesn't beat it?
 BO VAN PELT: No, but this is the second worst day. But at least you're playing in a major. This is what it's about. You come here and know this is part of the deal, and if you're not going to embrace it, you might as well go home. 
 One of my good friends before I left, he's like, I know you're not going to want to play in it, but I hope it's pissing rain and blowing on you over there. So he got his wish today. So he's back in Indiana laughing right now at me. It's just part of the deal, I guess. 

 Q. Do you remember what you shot that day?
 BO VAN PELT: I think I shot 81 the first 18, I shot 71 the second 18. It was probably the best round of golf I ever played. I think I got it up and down 14 times or something. Yeah, I think I shot like 81-71.

 Q. That was Prairie Dunes?
 BO VAN PELT: Yeah, Prairie Dunes in '98.

 Q. Are you cold?
 BO VAN PELT: No, I'm okay. I was wearing short sleeves but my liner had gotten wet, so I just took this jacket out and put it on. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT