FRYS.COM OPEN
October 14, 2010
Bo Van Pelt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MARK STEVENS: Bo, thanks for joining us. 6 under, 65 today. Great round. Just some -- why don't you just start off with a couple comments on the round. 
 BO VAN PELT: You know, obviously any time you go bogey-free, you're happy. I think I missed two fairways and no greens. So I felt like a pretty simple day. Always good to finish with a birdie. 
 I didn't hit a very good drive on 9, and I laid it up in the rough. So to come away from there with a 4was a good way to finish. Just overall felt like I played pretty well last week on the weekend. Just got to carry it over to today. 
 MARK STEVENS: How about the course, how much experience have you had? 
 BO VAN PELT: I played Wednesday. I played the Pro Am. 
 It is a good golf course. It is in good shape. The weather is absolutely perfect so no wind and soft greens. 
 There is some rough out there. So if you drive in the rough, sometimes you are going to have a hard time getting to the green. But if you drive it into the fairway, you are probably going to shoot a pretty low score on that golf course. 

 Q. Your representation, your hat, there is a tournament going on right now. Do you pay attention to that even though it is the other tour? 
 BO VAN PELT: Yeah, I was down there on Monday. I flew down there after Sea Island (indiscernible) and did a clinic with Dennis Walters and did their draw party Monday night and then flew up here Tuesday. 
 Their golf course is in a great shape. It is one of the tougher tests out there on Nationwide. So they will have a good winner this week. 

 Q. Are you here because the tournaments here -- I know that Pernice tried to talk it up. And were you here because of the money list? I mean -- And do you mind playing this long a schedule? 
 BO VAN PELT: You know, I wasn't going to play and played well, felt like I was playing well, close to playing well last week and decided to recommit. You know, the one thing I haven't done is win this year. And I wanted to take one more shot at it before I shut it down for 2010. 

 Q. So far looks like a good significance. I mean, you got three rounds with Phil. 
 BO VAN PELT: It is a long way to go. Just felt like the right thing to do, to come play. So that's what I did. 

 Q. (Indiscernible). 
 BO VAN PELT: I forgot my belt this morning, so I just kept the sweater vest on (laughter). 

 Q. You are up over 2 million for the year. How do you accept this year so far? You mentioned (indiscernible) but just how you played this year. 
 BO VAN PELT: It has been great. It has been my most consistent year. I switched 13 out of 14 clubs in my bag and the golf ball after last year when I had my best year last year. 
 So, you know, the type of stuff I have been playing this year has been awesome. When I got fitted for it, I felt like I got better overnight. And it gave me a lot of confidence going into this year. And I worked hard this off season, stuff I felt like I needed to improve on. And so far so good. 

 Q. What did you keep? 
 BO VAN PELT: I switched my putter around a little bit. I tried a couple different ones. You know how golfers are, that one is a revolving door. So that one never stays the same very long. 

 Q. You didn't switch manufacturers, just -- 
 BO VAN PELT: Oh, no, I switched manufacturers. 

 Q. You did? 
 BO VAN PELT: Yeah. 

 Q. And why? Guys -- I know they do it and, of course, the big question two years ago Mickelson goes to Callaway and people say, Why would you do that? Part of it was money. I just wonder -- 
 BO VAN PELT: It wasn't for the money. You know, there were just some different things that went on. So I had an opportunity to look around. And once I looked there, I didn't have to look anywhere else. 
 MARK STEVENS: Bo, congratulations on a great first round. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT