WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 8, 2010
Bo Van Pelt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. I know you'd love to have those two putts back at 16 and 18. That could have got you to 11, put a little heat on Hunter, but still a fine final round.   
 BO VAN PELT: Yeah, I played good on the front nine, gave myself a chance and played good on the back. I hit a bunch of putts where I wanted. I'm disappointed but I hit the putts like I wanted. It wasn't like I made a bad stroke. They just didn't go in. I putted great all week. Obviously it's easy to look back and be disappointed. I'm happy I gave myself the looks. All in all, it was a good week.  
  
  Q. Looks like another top 5 for you. You had five top 10s coming in. This will make it six. Another wonderful season for you.   
 BO VAN PELT: Yeah, it's always good to have a top 5. It's disappointing when you've got a chance to win a tournament like I did and come up a little short, but hey, I gave it all I had today. You know, yesterday at the turn I was at 2-under, so I fought pretty hard the last 27 to give myself a chance. I'll try to concentrate on the positives. I'll be a little ticked off for about 30 minutes and then go kiss my kids and forget all about it.  
  
  Q. I looked at how you had done at Whistling Straits in '04 and it was a tie for 31st. I don't think you have any rounds under 70. What do you remember about that tournament and the way you played?  
 BO VAN PELT: Yeah, I remember it was a good golf course. I've got the same tee times this week that I had six years ago, first off of No. 10. I remember I played pretty well on Sunday, kind of moved up the leaderboard a little bit. It's an interesting golf course. I think it's a good track. It's a beautiful setting up there, so obviously happy with how I played the last 27 here and hopefully we can take that form into next week.   
  
  Q. You're projected top 15 in the FedExCup standings. You've never played TOUR Championship. How much of a goal is that on your radar screen right now?  
 BO VAN PELT: It was one of my goals at the start of the year. I put it right there on my sink. I've got to look at it every day when I go home that I want to be in that top 30. It's become a pretty important thing, kind of sets up your next year, playing all the majors, and to me it's just -- it symbolizes that you've had a great year. There's a bunch of great players out here, so if you can finish in the top 30 in our Playoffs, it means a lot.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT