AT&T NATIONAL
July 2, 2010
Bo Van Pelt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 15 of 18 greens in the second round. You're 3-under, absolutely in contention for this?
 BO VAN PELT: Yeah, happy how I played. I've been struggling a little bit with my golf swing and hung in there and played real solid on the back, was happy to get in under par. It's a great golf course, so anything under par I'd be happy with.

 Q. 69, 68, you continue that progression you're going to be a winner here at the end of the week. 
 BO VAN PELT: We'll see. There's a long way to go, tough golf course. You've got to drive the ball in the fairway and got to keep it below the hole. If you do that, you've got a chance. If you don't, you can shoot over par in a hurry.

 Q. Your dad was drafted by the Philadelphia Eagles but that was before you were born?
 BO VAN PELT: Yeah, he was drafted in '66, like you said, before I was born. It's cool that he was drafted by the team, great organization with a lot of history, so good to be here. It's been a good week so far.

 Q. You're having such a solid year. What's been the difference so far?
 BO VAN PELT: You know, I think I'm really loving the Titleist equipment that I switched to this year. It's been an awesome change that's helped me get control of my golf ball. I've worked on my short game. Bill Rogers helped me out around the greens, and Mark Wood, my swing coach, we've been together for ten years. I feel more comfortable in my golf swing, so when I get a little lost, I feel like I can get back on to what I'm trying to do instead of having to wait until after the round. So all those things have kind of come together this year.

 Q. Any birdies that stand out today? 
 BO VAN PELT: I hit a good shot into the par-3 on the back nine. What is it, 13? I hit a 6-iron in there. It was a good club. The wind kind of switched before I hit it, switched to the 6-iron from a 5 because the wind laid down, hit it in there about a foot and a half, two feet. It's hard to get a kick-in on this golf course. It's tough to get close to these pins. That helped, and then I made it from about 20 feet on the next hole. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT