TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
October 2, 2009
Bo Van Pelt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You were a magician on the Back 9. What a round of golf. You had seven birdies, a par and a bogey at 17 on the Back 9. What a solid round of golf. 
 BO VAN PELT: Thanks, yeah. I hit it good, bogeyed on 9, so I wasn't real happy going to 10. Had a good look on 10 and didn't make it. And then, you know, just the putter got hot. I made a bunch of putts, and I finally got smart enough. 
 My teacher, Mark Wood, carried for me this week. And I finally called him in on 11 to start reading putts, and he was 6 for 6. He asked me on the third one, he goes, am I going to read this one? I was like, well, you're two for two. That means you get to try to go for three for three. So we'll have him reading some more putts tomorrow.

 Q. You had only 10 putts on the back side. Is there anything you've done other than getting the extra read?
 BO VAN PELT: No. I felt like I was rolling the ball good yesterday, but on the first nine holes yesterday I made seven putts right inside 10 feet. So I was just burning the edges and coming close. 
 I just made the one on 11, and it was just one of those days where all of a sudden the hole got looking really big.

 Q. Has it been a lot of fun this year? You've had a really solid year, of course, one win and 44th on the Money List. That's just gotta be no-pressure golf. 
 BO VAN PELT: Yeah. The start of the year was frustrating. I felt like I had some good chances to win and didn't play very well on a couple of Sundays, so it was frustrating. 
 Ever since Milwaukee I think that was the big lift off my shoulders. And it was funny, my wife was begging me to play Milwaukee instead of trying to qualify for the British Open, and I won. I wasn't going to play this week. We were going to go on vacation for our 10-year anniversary, and she said, no, I think you need to go play tournaments. So after today I'm glad she made me come up here.

 Q. She gets the biggest tip for the week. Good playing today, and keep it up through the weekend. 
 BO VAN PELT: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT