THE BARCLAYS
August 29, 2009
Bo Van Pelt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 5-under, and jumping from 30-something to Top-10 right now.   
 BO VAN PELT: Yeah, I played solid. The putter has been pretty good all week, and just finally hit it a little bit better today, and obviously the conditions were better than I had yesterday morning. It was pretty tough out there. I was playing pretty good. I made a triple on 1 as I made the turn yesterday and got it all the way back to where I was even and bogeyed the last two holes.   
 I was playing pretty good golf, and, you know, just drove it well today and putter stayed hot.   
  
  Q. How much confidence did the win at U.S. Bank give you?   
 BO VAN PELT: A lot. I think I don't have that in the back of my mind anymore, like I'm thinking about when is the first time going to be. So it's nice that I don't have to think about it.   
 You know, I've been out here long enough where I have good experience, but it was just nice to get that one off the shelf.   
  
  Q. Were you watching the FedEx points at all?  
 BO VAN PELT: My goal is Top-30 like everyone else, to get in THE TOUR Championship, and with the win, give myself somewhere in the 40s. Starting the week, I felt like I had a really good shot. I still didn't even know with all the points how it was going to shake out. I'll know more I guess after this week to see how much I can move up and move down.  
 That's the goal, just try to play the best you can each week, the next three weeks and see where that gets you.   
  
  Q. You never played in THE TOUR Championship?   
 BO VAN PELT: Correct. Yeah, my highest, I finished 39th out here in 2004 before the FedExCup, so I just missed THE TOUR Championship that year.   
  
  Q. Do you know that Top-30 also gets you in the Masters?   
 BO VAN PELT: Yeah, and all that other stuff. To be able to play in the World Golf Championship events and the majors, those are the ones you want to play in. So if you get Top-30, you can really make your schedule for the next year.   
  
  Q. You haven't had that luxury the past few years.   
 BO VAN PELT: No.   
  
  Q. Nice to get it back?  
 BO VAN PELT: Absolutely, just from the World Ranking points that are available to the money to the prestige, those are the events that you want to play in. You know, when you're not playing in them, you know, you've got to kind of scratch it out and tough it out a little bit so to speak.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT