TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2009
Bo Van Pelt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Bo, 30 on the Back 9. Wherever you play I was impressed. What was the key?  
 BO VAN PELT: You know, just made putts. You know, I played really well on the front. I had a three-putt, and missed a little one on 9 and wasn't real happy with myself and just hit it close on 10 and 12 and made it.   
 And then I three-putted 13 for par and hit a good shot on 16 right there in front of the green, or 15, excuse me, chipped it up for a gimme. And then made two nice ones coming in on 16 and 18, so been hitting the ball well all week. It was nice to make a few coming in.  
  
  Q. The field is so wide open right now. Kenny just pulled three ahead, but it still looks extremely wide open. Tomorrow you might be in one of the last three groups. Do you just try and make birdie? Do you play extremely aggressive? There's so many people.   
 BO VAN PELT: Yeah. There's going to be a low number tomorrow. As soft as the greens are. The greens aren't real fast, so you can be pretty aggressive. So you better have your ears pinned back and go make some birdies tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Bo, you've missed four of your last five cuts coming into this week, and you played well in the spring. Is there something that happened?  
 BO VAN PELT: You know, it's funny, I've been playing as good as I've played all year the last month, and every day I've been making a double just kind of out of nowhere, so I knew I was playing really good, way better than my scores. This week I just haven't made any big numbers. That's been the only difference really.   
  
  Q. Thanks.  
 (Interview continues...)  
 BO VAN PELT: Yeah, it was good. I've driven it good there the last two days. I made a bogey the first day, which was just kind of an unforced error, and made birdie there yesterday, and it was nice to finish off like that.   
 I felt like I played really well today, and I saw the guys are going low, so I was just trying to push it there at the end to try and make as many as I could.   
  
  Q. The back 9 especially, it seemed like you were hitting it pretty well.   
 BO VAN PELT: Yeah. I could have pretty easily shot four or five under on the front and just kind of didn't take advantage of my opportunities, so I knew that guys were going to be making birdies, so you better make something happen on the Back 9, and fortunately I did.   
  
  Q. Is this is the first time in a while where your score matches how well you're hitting the ball?   
 BO VAN PELT: Yeah. It has. That's been the frustrating part in the last month. I really do feel like I'm playing about as good as I ever have and just haven't had the results, so that's been frustrating.   
 I missed the cut at the Open, even though I was right there. I made a trim on my second to last hole just kind of out of nowhere after birdieing five out of eight holes in a row at an Open is pretty good. So I went home for a couple days and kind of regrouped.   
 And I like this golf course. Just trying to stay patient. And if I can eliminate three-putts, I'll be all right. I had two today and I think I had five this week. So if I get my speed down, I think I'll be all right.   
  
  Q. Barring something crazy, you'll probably be in one of the last groups tomorrow. Can you talk about that a little bit?  
 BO VAN PELT: Oh, it's exciting. You know, that's why you practice. You know, you want to give yourself a chance to win on Sunday and that's all you can ask for. So I like the way I'm playing. You know, you never know what will happen tomorrow.   
  
  Q. When you play on a course like this, especially after guys have already put up some low numbers that you have to go out and play even more aggressively than you might have otherwise?  
 BO VAN PELT: Well, I don't think you play more aggressively. It's just easier to stay in that aggressive mode. You know there's no playing it safe and making pars. You better keep making birdies because you know the guys behind you are. And like for me, I was already five or six back starting the day, so making pars wasn't going to do me a whole lot of good. So even though I was a couple under, I knew I had to keep trying to make as many birdies as I could.   
  
  Q. Could you talk a little bit about that eagle on six?  
 BO VAN PELT: You know, I hit a good drive. I just three-putted the hole before from about 20 feet, so I wasn't real happy.   
 I hit a good drive down there and hit a 3-wood from I think I had 275 hole to about I think I saw on the board I was 11 feet or something right behind the hole and hit a good putt.   
  
  Q. Finish up nicely the way you did on 18.   
 BO VAN PELT: Yeah. That makes dinner taste a little better. I bogeyed that hole from the fairway the first day, so I wasn't real happy, but I birdied it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT