MAYAKOBA GOLF CLASSIC AT RIVIERA MAYA - CANCUN
February 27, 2009
Bo Van Pelt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   NELSON SILVERIO: Start off, talk about your round today.  
 BO VAN PELT: You know, it's good. The wind was pretty strong right off the bat. I drove the ball great all day.   
 Irons were a little off, but chipping and putting helped me in there early. I had one 3-putt on the final. That was my one bogey, and then made a couple birdies in a row, then on 12 and 13, kind of got it going and then missed the green on 15, landed in a tough spot, didn't get it up-and-down.   
 Had a pretty good luck coming in, then didn't make it, but all in all, I'm happy with how I played. I'm driving the ball great, which is a big key out here. So I'm down here to do it and it'll be all good.  
 NELSON SILVERIO: Was there anything different in the conditions today.  
 BO VAN PELT: No. It was pretty much the same. It blew yesterday. It blew today. I think it's going to blow the next two days, so it was pretty much the same, I think.  
 NELSON SILVERIO: Yesterday you were real happy with your putting?  
 BO VAN PELT: Yeah. I rolled the ball great. I didn't hit as many greens today, so early on -- you know, I missed a bunch of greens early, but I was in easy spots, easy chips, so just kind of one-putt pars. So I just need to hit a few more greens tomorrow because the putter is good.  
 NELSON SILVERIO: Last year you played in Puerto Rico. It seems you enjoy playing outside of the U. S. maybe? Is it more being relaxed.  
 BO VAN PELT: Yeah. You know what, Puerto Rico is kind of like different. Last year in Puerto Rico my kids were with me, kind of relaxed by the pool.   
 Same way today. You know, we got the kids and everybody down, and we're just enjoying ourselves and having a good time. I played well on Sunday in LA, so hopefully I can keep the same stuff going.  
 NELSON SILVERIO: Can with we go into your birdies real quick.  
 BO VAN PELT: I birdied No. 5 on the Front 9. Hit a -- I think I hit a 6-iron into 5, about 12 feet short of the hole, made it.   
 Then I three-putted 6 and made it from about 15, ran it by. And then on the Back 9 I birdied on 12. I hit a 6-iron to about 12, 14 feet. And then on the par-five, missed the green kind of short right, chipped it up to about eight feet, made that one.   
 15, hit it kind of long left of the green and didn't have a very good chip, had a bogey there.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT