THE BARCLAYS
August 21, 2008
Bo Van Pelt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Good opening round.   
 BO VAN PELT: It's a good golf course. If you hit it in the rough it's pretty tough, but if you hit it in the right spots, you can make some birdies out there. Funny, before I teed off, I realized my putter was broken. The head was sawed down so I ran in and got a backup that I had not putted with in a year, and putted out on the first hole and made a bomb on 3, first bomb I've played in about six months. It was a good thing I guess the other one was broken.  
  
  Q. How did it get broken?   
 BO VAN PELT: I didn't have any idea. I could tell when I sat it down it just sounded like, can't use that one. I had a couple in my locker just in case.   
  
  Q. Why did you pick this one?  
 BO VAN PELT: It was the closest thing to what my original was.  
  
  Q. Define "bomb."   
 BO VAN PELT: About 40 feet.   
  
  Q. Overall, there's a lot to play for this week, and coming out throwing out a good opening round --  
 BO VAN PELT: Yeah, it was good. It's been kind of a weird year for me. Been getting frustrated because I feel like I've played better than my scores and I finally just started taking the attitude "I'm just going to try and play and not really worry about anything." It's been fun the past couple of days because I have not really cared what was going on, so I just tried to take that attitude today.  
  
  Q. Why only one Top-10 this year, compared to the last four, what is the lull that you think you've hit?  
 BO VAN PELT: I don't know. It's a weird game. It's not that big a difference between how consistent I played the last four or five years and this year. This year I've either played really well or not very well. Tee-to-green, I feel like I've been hitting it pretty solid. Just couldn't really get any momentum going, and starting in the right direction, making a bogey or getting off-track. That's golf, I guess.   
  
  Q. I know this is kind of a tough question, but 116th on the Money List, do you think about that going into next week at all?  
 BO VAN PELT: No, not really. That's a long year, and you know, if I play well, everything is going to take care of itself. If I start worrying about stuff like that, I'm not going to play very well. Just go out and have fun. I haven't had fun in a long time so I feel like just trying to put some fun back into playing golf.  
  
  Q. When did you come to that realization that you need to put more fun back into it?  
 BO VAN PELT: I would say last Saturday and Sunday. I played well in Greensboro coming off two weeks off. Just tee-to-green, played pretty well Saturday and Sunday and didn't get much out of it. Didn't have a whole lot of fun. One of those deals; "Well, why wouldn't you be having fun playing out here?" Sometimes you've just got to come to that realization.   
  
  Q. When do you think the last time was that you had fun? Do you remember a season?   
 BO VAN PELT: No. There's been days or weeks that it's been fun. I think that, you know, just you always are trying to strive to get better, and probably took it a little too serious or too hard on myself. The reason I got playing good started four or five years ago because I started having fun and just getting back to that.  
  
  Q. Any other bombs out there?   
 BO VAN PELT: No, two other bogeys on the front, and then played well on the back. I don't think I missed a green on the back. I hit it close on 11 and 12. I birdied 14, and then 16, I ran my first putt by and ran about a 7-footer coming back, which is big. Kind of kept my momentum going, something I've struggled with a little this year, and went on to birdie the next hole. That could be a two-shot swing.   
 I could have missed that putt and maybe not birdied the par 5 and instead of 4-under, I could be two. So I've been doing a lot of that this year, so it was good to finally get on the right side of that.  
  
  Q. Any similarities between here and Sedgefield?   
 BO VAN PELT: Yeah, I like Winged Foot and Baltusrol and he actually did a course where I live, Tulsa Country Club. Definitely one of my favorites.   
  
  Q. Did you change putters at all this year?  
 BO VAN PELT: I've changed quite a bit this year.   
  
  Q. How many do you think you go through?  
 BO VAN PELT: This year? I've probably gone through about at least eight.   
  
  Q. Is this one in the bag for the rest of the week now?   
 BO VAN PELT: Oh, yeah.   
  
  Q. What was it Rich Beem said the other day, "putters are evil"; have you ever tried a long putter?   
 BO VAN PELT: A long belly putter but not a long.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT