BUICK OPEN
June 26, 2008
Bo Van Pelt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We welcome Bo Van Pelt. 8-under par, 64 today, Bo. 14 of 18 greens but only 8 of 14 fairways; is that a little misleading, or is that accurate?   
 BO VAN PELT: That's probably a little misleading. I caught a couple of first cuts. 18, I did a good job, went into the rough. Stats are skewed. It wasn't like I was behind trees all day. I was just a little bit first cut here, first cut there. Felt like I drove it really well, actually.  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.  
  
  Q. What's the difference maybe this year?  
 BO VAN PELT: I had a couple of good rounds here. I think two years ago I was in pretty good shape after two days and didn't play very well on the weekend. And I've had some good rounds. Haven't carried it forward through all four days. And I like the golf course. And I grew up in Indiana, small town, and played a lot of golf courses that looked similar to this. And so it's kind of good to get back to familiar surroundings.   
  
  Q. Before you go out, you see all those scores in the 60s, does that enter into your mind at all that you're going to have to do something to keep pace the first day?  
 BO VAN PELT: You know, I've been struggling a little bit lately. Haven't been playing as well as I would have liked. So I was just trying to control what I could control today. And you know this golf course, the way the weather was and the greens have been soft, the scores are going to be low. You know that without even thinking about it.  
 I tried not to really put any of that in my head. I was just trying to control what I could control. And once I got off, birdie in the first was nice, and I try to keep doing the best I could on every hole and not really worry about what everybody else has done.  
  
  Q. Most of the really low scores were this morning. What were the conditions like for you guys this afternoon?  
 BO VAN PELT: You know, it's probably a little windier there. Kind of a fake, got called off there for a little bit. It was blowing a little bit. I think these greens have a tendency, they get bumpier in the afternoon. And I know Chopra played well and Howell was playing well. So it's tougher to make putts in the afternoon here. But other than that, it was probably similar to what the guys had this morning.  
  
  Q. (Off microphone)  
 BO VAN PELT: It was nice. I birdied one. Any time you're playing a course where the scores are low, you have to take advantage of the par 5s.   
 And especially having some good par 3s here, you know you're not going to get too many there. I hit a good job there on 7. I had a 4-iron, I made a good swing at it. It just carried the bunker and stopped really quickly.   
 I caught it up in the air and had about a 10-footer, real easy read. It was inside right. Any time you can make an eagle, you feel like you jump start a little bit. And probably the best thing was the next hole I pulled an iron shot, I had a pretty tough 2-putt down the hill, made a nice 2-putt par, kind of keeping my momentum going.  
  
  Q. During the week have you played a couple of rounds and been able to get into a groove here? Or if not today, when did you get a sense that you had something going with your swing?  
 BO VAN PELT: You know, I just played the Pro Am. That was it. Concentrated on working on my short game the first two days, Monday and Tuesday here. Been working on that. Inside 120 yards.   
 I would say once I made a nice par save on 11 out of the bunker, and I hit a good wedge shot on 12 and made birdie on 13 and drove it on the 14th green and 2-putted and kind of in that stretch. And I took it from just kind of plain okay, 4-under. So all of a sudden bam, next thing I know I'm at 7. That stretch took me over the hump I would say.  
  
  Q. During the course of the year what part of your game has been your strength when you've been able to put consistent good scores together?  
 BO VAN PELT: I'd say I'm probably the same with everybody. If I'm driving it pretty good and then just making some putts. That's pretty much what it comes down to. You guys see it every week. You watch TV. The guys, they hit it close, they make it. If they miss a green, they get it up and down. And it doesn't sound real glamorous. But that's what it takes out here. And that's kind of what I did today.  
 THE MODERATOR: Bo, we appreciate it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT