PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY BANCO POPULAR
March 22, 2008
Bo Van Pelt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Bo Van Pelt, thanks for joining us.  Tell us about current conditions today.   
 BO VAN PELT:  A little warmer today.  Wind was blowing just about -- probably just as hard, I think, as the first few days, a little bit different direction, but similar conditions, other than the fact it was a little bit warmer.   
  
  Q.  Bo, it looked like for you maybe a little bit -- after you got out of those first five holes, maybe a little bit more of a struggle out there today.   
 BO VAN PELT:  Yeah.  You know, I hit it really good the first eight holes, and then I had an elbow injury a couple weeks ago, I had to withdraw, and it kind of flared up on me on nine, tee ball, didn't have a very good tee shot, bogey there, and made two good shots on ten and didn't convert, and had a good shot on 11, and hit a good drive on 12.  I was surprised it actually hooked that much, made a good par there.   
 But yeah, a little bit more of a struggle.  I thought I had a good drive on 14, wind took a little bit more on me.  When I hit it, I thought it was perfect, and the wind just kind of kept taking to the left.   
 I felt like I hit it big coming in, the last four holes.  I could have birdied the last four pretty easily.  So I am striking the ball well, I just didn't convert on the short birdie putts that I had today.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible).   
 BO VAN PELT:  Nice to be leading and not behind.  All of a sudden I got to play well tomorrow to win.  I think I had a one-shot lead going into today, the same as tomorrow.  You know, just got to go out there and keep going forward.  Somebody is going to go low.  And hopefully, I just keep hitting it to the green the way I am, and convert on some of those birdie putts.   
  
  Q.  Did it make any kind of a difference that along with you, there are a lot of other guys in the top 10 who a victory would mean a lot for, who haven't won in a long time or are looking for that first one out there?   
 BO VAN PELT:  It's funny, I think from the outside looking in, some people say, oh, this is opposite field, or whatever, but for guys out here playing, they know a win is a win, and they know how hard it is to win out here, so I think it would mean a lot to anybody.   
  
  Q.  Do you think that maybe -- will there be any more nerves because maybe some of you haven't been in this position before?   
 BO VAN PELT:  Yeah.  I mean, we will just have to wait and see tomorrow.  It also could be fun because it's going to mean a lot, like you said, that somebody hasn't won in a while, or the fact that it's the first.  So it will be fun.  I will be playing with guys that I have known for a long time that we kind of came up together.  Looked like Briny and Brenden were probably second.  So we were all rookies out here and played Nationwide and stuff together, so I think it will probably be a pretty relaxed round, and we will see what happens.   
  
  Q.  You (inaudible) was it more (inaudible) or a putter issue?   
 BO VAN PELT: For me?  Yeah, just didn't convert.  Hit it close on 1, didn't make it.  Hit it close on 4, didn't make it.  10, 15, 17 and 18.  I mean, I could have -- those are the kind of length of putts, 10, 12-footers or less that I was making the first two days, just -- it wasn't so much I hit bad putts, I read a lot of them wrong, with the wind and the grain, just didn't take very good lines, whereas I had been picking really good lines the first two days, so just --   
  
  Q.  It wasn't a speed issue?   
 BO VAN PELT:  Wasn't a speed or stroke issue, I just -- I was seeing something different than what was there.  So hopefully, you know, it just goes like that, golf is like that, you have days where you can see exactly where it wants to go, and today I just -- I picked a couple lines that weren't very good on short birdie putts, and so I just didn't convert.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT