PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY BANCO POPULAR
March 20, 2008
Bo Van Pelt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Thanks for joining us here in the interview room Puerto Rico Open.  8 under par today, give us some comments on that great round.   
 BO VAN PELT:  You know, I played solid.  I only had one bogey.   
 (Sound disconnected.)   
 BO VAN PELT:  Got under par early, I think that's important, just got on the right side of par and kept going.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 BO VAN PELT:  Never been to Puerto Rico before.  I like the golf course.  It it set up really fair today.  They moved the tees up.  I am sure they will set it up harder as the week goes on, but I told somebody yesterday, I have no idea what a good score will be, you know, you have never played here, just try to -- really try to take one shot at a time because you never know what a good score is.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 BO VAN PELT:  Yeah, I did.  I made a nice putt on 10.  Kind of a weird break.  I had probably about a 12-footer.  And made a really good putt, wind was blowing hard left to right, and then I was lucky because Ryan Armour, who was playing with me, he birdied too, he was up first on 11, and I got to see kind of his shot and it helped me decide what club to hit, just kind of watching how the wind was taking his ball.  And I hit one in there good, about six feet.   
 And then they moved the tee up on 12, so yesterday I barely got to the fairway and today a pitching wedge in, so I had a good shot there, made about an 8-footer for birdie.  Yeah, when you make three in a row, you definitely get started off on a good note.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 BO VAN PELT:  Yeah, I think probably the most important one was 14 I hit a really good drive, I missed the green left, I hit a 2-iron shot, probably the only 4-iron shot I hit all day.   
 You make bogey there, you kind of kill your round a little bit.  And made par, and then dropped a birdie at 15.  Hit a good shot on 15, didn't make the putt.   
 14 was critical.  That kind of helped me finish off the round, not making a bogey there, middle of the fairway.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 BO VAN PELT:  17 I hit a 3-wood off the tee, about 10 feet behind the hole, had a really good shot in there, and basically, a dead straight putt, just had to hit it hard enough.   
 18, hit a really good tee ball, and hit my hybrid club, kind of like a 3-iron or 5-wood, just missed it a little bit right, hit a good shot, it was pin high right in the bunker, and hit it to, I don't know, two or three feet.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 BO VAN PELT:  Yeah, I think anytime you go to a tournament you want to feel like you are trying to win the golf tournament, and I think a lot of the tournaments that have been opposite the world events I have taken off, this might be the first one I have ever played.   
 So I was excited.  My kids were on spring break.  When the year started, I probabloy didn't have this on my schedule, and I said, "Let's go down there and have fun."   
I felt like I was going to play Tampa and Bay Hill, two courses that I like, and I thought, you know, I'll probably get just to play again, I don't want to take the week off.   
 So I was excited for me because I was going to go out there with a chance to play, so I have been having a great time, and I think that kind of helps, too, to relax.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 BO VAN PELT:  Absolutely.  Exactly.  It's a great opportunity to kind of keep your momentum going, I know some guys on the Nationwide, they haven't been able to get in this.  You just got to look at the bright side, it's a Tour event (inaudible) Mercedes, two years, I am going to come out here and enjoy it.   
  
  Q.  Has your family enjoyed themselves?   
 BO VAN PELT:  Oh, yeah, they are having a ball.   
  
  Q.  Any more questions?   
 (Inaudible.)   
 BO VAN PELT:  Yeah, absolutely.  Absolutely.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT