EDS BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2006
Bo Van Pelt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  We thank Bo Van Pelt for stopping in after a 2 under 68 today in the second round of the EDS Byron Nelson Championship.  5 under through two rounds, Bo.  A very consistent season for you to date, your 12th consecutive cut and you're 36th on the Money List.  Talk about your play thus far this year.
BO VAN PELT:  Yeah, I've been pleased, only missing one cut in San Diego.  I think that was a goal of mine starting a couple years ago; I wanted to try to be real consistent and try to be up there every week as best as I could.

I feel like I try really hard, even on weeks where I'm not swinging very well.  That's something I take a lot of pride in.  I've definitely had to grind it out a few times this year to make the cut on the number, and you just know when you're going to have a good weekend.  All in all, my game I'm happy with.  I've been working on the same things with the same teacher for about four years, and I think that's helped me stay consistent.  The same principles we talked about four years ago we still talk about today, same equipment, same philosophy as far as what I do during the week.  My travel, my practice rounds, I try to stay pretty consistent.  I think that's helped me be more consistent the last couple years.
TODD BUDNICK:  Talk about today.  You got off to a good start with birdies on your first two.
BO VAN PELT:  I hit a 3 wood and a sand wedge to about maybe six feet.

I hit a 6 iron into 2 about ten feet left of the hole.  It's always nice to get off to a good start.

I hit some good iron shots on 4 and 5, just wasn't able to convert.

Then hit a bad drive on 6, had to take an unplayable, kind of killed my momentum a little bit.  Basically it's a birdie hole if you hit it in the fairway.  I made 6 there.

But then came right back and had a good shot on 8 and missed a little bit for birdie, and then birdied 9.

I was still going pretty good.  I hit a 9 iron into 11 about ten feet, made birdie there.

14, I hit a good tee shot, wind just got it a little bit, went just in the left rough and made bogey there.  I hit that tree short of the green, like in between the green and the water.

And then had decent chances on 15 and 16.

And then 17 I just wasn't ready to hit the shot and I went ahead and hit it anyways and mis hit a 5 iron and came up short in the bunker.  I hit an okay bunker shot and missed about a ten footer for par there.

Then 18, I stepped up there and hit two good shots to about a foot and a half, maybe two feet, with a 7 iron.  So it was nice to finish with a birdie.

I felt like I played pretty well today to only shoot 2 under.  I felt like I didn't get much out of it, so it was nice to make a birdie at the end.
Q.  Just kind of expand on the consistency thing.  I'm wondering, is that more a state of mind kind of a thing or a mechanical thing?
BO VAN PELT:  I think it's both.  I think my teacher, his name is Mark Wood, we've stayed real consistent with what we're trying to do, and I think that I have a lot of confidence in what he tells me and what we're working on.

So even when I have a week off, when I go home, I might not touch a club at all, but when I come back out on Monday and Tuesday I know what I'm trying to do.  I know what it takes for me to play well, as far as mechanically to give me the club where I want it to be, and that's helped me out a lot.

Then from a state of mind standpoint, I think you just have to    you've got to take pride in playing every hard hole or every hole hard.  I always felt like if I didn't give up that I'd have a chance, so I think for me, my state of mind, even when I'm not playing well, I'm still trying real hard.  You'll never see me throw in the towel out there.  I just try to take that mindset out there when I'm playing.
Q.  Can you talk about the conditions today?  Were they a little more benign?
BO VAN PELT:  Yeah, it was a lot easier today.  It was playing tough.  I played Cottonwood yesterday.  Right out of the box, 1 was dead into the wind and 3 was dead into the wind.  There were tough holes, a lot of cross wind shots at Cottonwood, tough to get the ball in the fairway, tough to pick the right club.

Today was pretty easy.  I mean, if it doesn't pick up, I think somebody could shoot 7 , 8 under out there today if they get going.  It wouldn't surprise me at all.

You know, I thought we'd have a chance because it was blowing hard yesterday morning when I got out here for the early guys, and I thought    when I was driving to the course this morning, the wind wasn't blowing and I thought maybe we might catch a break.  I was real happy to get off to a hot start, I just wasn't able to keep it going.  I thought I could shoot 6 , 7 under the way I was swinging at it.  It didn't happen, but as long as nobody goes too nuts, I don't mind where I'm at at 5 under.
Q.  Did you learn anything    you always learn something about your game during a week, from last week, that could help you going into this week?
BO VAN PELT:  Yeah, I think so.  I've seemed a lot calmer the last couple weeks, and I think last week I was so happy with how I was swinging at it, I got kind of overexcited on Saturday.  Instead of just letting the course kind of come to me and my swing keep doing what I was doing, I think I got a little too excited and just got out of my rhythm a little bit and just wasn't able to find it on Sunday in those tough conditions.

I just tried to take the positives from it.  I flew home Sunday night, just played with my kids on Monday, and got in the car and drove down here Tuesday, and I think I just came down here with a real clean mind and just seemed real kind of at peace.  I know that I did the best I could.  I just try to do the best every week that I can.

Like I told these guys last week, I figure if I put myself up there enough times that one of those Sundays is going to be my day, and I don't get real caught up in it.
Q.  It's pretty hard to follow up a really good week with another.  You're obviously halfway there.
BO VAN PELT:  Yeah, I think it's, like I said, even though I didn't do anything on Monday and just came down here and got a little work in Tuesday afternoon, I know the principles that I go to when I warm up and when I'm on the golf course.  That's really helped me a lot.  Mark has helped me a lot over the last couple years.  We always laugh, we say it's like Monty Hall; Door No. 1 is working, I'm not looking at Door No. 2.  I try to stay pretty    it's pretty boring.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thanks, Bo.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT