PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2005
Bo Van Pelt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BO VAN PELT:  I had a good day today, left a couple out there that I was a little disappointed with, but overall I can't complain.
Q.  How is the golf course holding up?
BO VAN PELT:  Good.  You know, the greens were getting pretty firm and dried out, but that's how they want them, and it'll be a good test tomorrow.
Q.  Mark your coach is working with you this week.  Talk a little bit about what a coach does for any guy?
BO VAN PELT:  Well, he's pretty much changed my life.  We started working together about four and a half years ago and I started getting better basically day one and have gotten better ever since with his help.  I can't thank him enough, and he doesn't get enough credit, as good a teacher as he is.
Q.  Talk a little bit about the extra, the little bit of extra for a major.
BO VAN PELT:  Yeah, obviously you can tell just talking around, there's obviously bigger crowds.  It's a little busier around the parking lots and stuff like that.

It gets down to the same thing, you've got to hit the fairway, you've got to hit the greens.  I think the margin of error is just smaller.  Average tournament you can drive it in the rough some and still make pars and birdies, but you drive it in the rough here you're probably going to make bogey.  It's a little tougher test.
Q.  This golf course compared to what you play on week to week?
BO VAN PELT:  Like I said, just margin of error.  It's longer.  The rough is a little bit more penal.  They shrunk the fairways in a little bit, so it separates guys who are hitting it good from guys who aren't.  Not hitting it well tee to green is going to catch up with you; you're not going to be able to fool this golf course for very long.
Q.  Talk about 17.
BO VAN PELT:  Well, today was the first day I hit the fairway, but downwind    it's been playing downwind all week, so if you got it in the fairway it was basically a wedge hole.  The green is pretty susceptible if you get a good yardage in there.

You know, if it was into you off the left, that tee shot would be pretty tough, pretty hard, but we've been lucky with it downwind and the hole has not really played as hard as most people thought it would.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT