CIMB CLASSIC
October 22, 2013
Bo Van Pelt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How are you settling into the new look tour?   This is the early start of next season and it's only October?  
BO VAN PELT:   It will be good as far as when the FedExCup ends, that's kind of when our season ended.   You know, we're already starting off '14, so I think it's exciting that this is part of the FedExCup season now and HSBC.   Guys will adjust to it.   Once we know what the deal is, guys just kind of roll with it.  
   
 Q.   You think players are comfortable with having this as part of the season now, having this long journey?   It's not the easiest place to come.   It's pretty hot.   
BO VAN PELT:   I think you look at the strength of the field this week and a lot of guys came over.   Who knows if they'll change the weeks around going forward.   That's one thing great about the TOUR.   They always try to see what's best.   You sit down on paper and try to figure out what works and we'll go back and maybe start a different week or whatever.   But guys have heard this is a great event the last couple of years, and I think that's why you see the strength of the field.   
Obviously, guys that can play next week in China, that probably helps too.   But I think if you look at the facility this is week, can you see why we're here.   CIMB has been a great sponsor.  
   
 Q.   You're obviously easily adaptable to the heat.   You've played really well here before.   How have you done with that?   It's pretty brutal out there?   
BO VAN PELT:   I live in Oklahoma, so it gets pretty hot in the summer there, so it wasn't that big a stretch for me to deal with humidity and this amount of sunshine.   So, you know, you just drink lots of water and take your time and listen to your body.   Everybody will get through it.  
   
 Q.   Just slow and steady?   
BO VAN PELT:   Slow and steady, yep.  
   
 Q.   Different golf course, but how do you account for your success having won last year?  
BO VAN PELT:   I liked the golf course here two years ago when I played, and last year was playing well at the end of the year, so I think that kind of helped.   I had won the week before in Perth.   So I think it's no different than any other guy out here.   When you get playing well, it's a bit easier to stay on a roll.   But, no, I think the combinations are great.   The tournament did a great job the last two years kind of taking care of all of us.   And I know this year isn't going to be any different.   So you throw all of that in, and it's pretty easy to get adjusted.  
   
 Q.   Have you seen the golf course yet?   
BO VAN PELT:   Yeah, I played a few holes.  
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts and what do you need to do to play well here?   
BO VAN PELT:   It looks like you need to drive the ball well.   The golf course looks tight off the tee where you can‑‑ if you go offline, you can definitely get penalized.   It looks like uphill and downhill there is a lot of change of elevation.   So it's going to be critical to try to control your distances and get the distance right, which will be a challenge for everybody this week.  
   
 Q.   There's some talk about the PGA TOUR Championship moving away from the States and coming to a different region and to Asia.   What do you think of the prospect of that coming here?   
BO VAN PELT:   Yeah, I think that probably presents some challenges just from the standpoint of when the PGA is compared to the start of our FedExCup playoffs.   But it wouldn't shock me.   Obviously, the game has grown all over the world.   So we'll just have to wait and see.   I heard about that a couple days ago.   That was the first time I heard about it, so I think everybody will just kind of watch and see.   Like I said, the game is growing every time, every year, so nothing would surprise me.  
   
 Q.   Do you think there should be more slots for Asian players here?   There are only ten slots for Asian Tour players here.   Do you think they need more?   
BO VAN PELT:   I hadn't really thought about it to be honest.   That's a decision for CIMB and the Tour.   When you're a sponsor and you're trying to put on the best event possible, that's their call, not mine.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT