CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 14, 2004
Bo Van Pelt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHRIS REIMER:  Joined by Bo Van Pelt with a 6-under 66.  Right around number 40 on the Money List.  Looking possibly to get into the TOUR Championship, what would that be like for you to get in there?
BO VAN PELT:  That would be great.  That was something that I was it was a goal I tried to set before the year started.  I figured if I was shooting for the top 30 I wouldn't be that worried about the top 125.  So you think I got a little too caught up in it thinking about it maybe the last six or seven weeks and even though I was playing pretty well, I wasn't having much fun, I was getting kind of frustrated out there.  Finally I was just like, you know, this is silly.  You've had a great year, don't put those kind of expectations on yourself right here at the end to where you end on a bad note.  So this week I was just trying to take it -- just to have fun again.  Just kind of getting into one shot and kind of having fun with it.  And I think that was a good frame of mind for today.  Hopefully I'm just going to play like that the rest of the year.  And if that happens, great.  If it doesn't, I'm not going to all of a sudden think I didn't have a good year because I just missed out on it.
CHRIS REIMER:  A lot of guys that are battling for position, battling for the top 125 coming in here say, just have fun and that will take care of it, the golf will take care of it.  Is that how you feel?
BO VAN PELT:  My wife could tell I was frustrated and she said, look, you got in this position by having fun and taking one shot at a time, and that seemed to work pretty good, why don't you go back to that.  And I was like, you know, you're probably right.  So that's kind of what I was trying to get back to today.
Q.  You mentioned having the goal of the TOUR Championship before the season, but this is, I would think, by any stretch, I mean, is this a really good year for you?  I mean, the first two times you were out here you didn't do so well.  This year very solid, made a lot of cuts.  I mean, has it -- I mean, has it exceeded your expectations in a way though?
BO VAN PELT:  No, I mean my two goals before the year started was to win a golf tournament and finish top 30.  And that really hasn't changed.  So to me I haven't, because I haven't reached either one of those goals, I don't feel like I -- I feel like I got more work to do.  My teacher and I, Mark Wood, he, even when I got off to a good start, I think that kept me from backing off early.  Being content on where I was.  Because those are two things that he was constantly putting in my head.  I think that just kind of pushed me to keep getting better as the year went on.
Q.  What's the difference this year from your first two times out here?
BO VAN PELT:  Well, I think my first year right out of college my game just wasn't ready.  I was right out of college and I hit it a mile, but I had no idea where it was going.  I didn't really play that many big amateur tournaments or I wasn't as well groomed as some of these guys like a Ryan Moore or Charles Howell, Hunter Mahan, guys I know, they had more experience.  So I think there was just a lot of things I needed to work on and get better at.  Two years ago, this, my numbers doesn't show, but I was close to playing pretty well.  And I had four or five tournaments where I was -- you take out one round and I finish top-10.  Instead of 35 the.  And so that was encouraging two years ago.  It was disappointing in the fact I didn't play better, but I knew I was closer.  I knew that I just was right there.  I just had to get back and give it another shot.
Q.  Has your wife given you any other coaching advice?
BO VAN PELT:  She gives me a lot, but she's pretty good.  She knew nothing about golf before we met.  But she's always kind of been around sports and stuff.  She knows me.  And she's got a pretty good pulse on what I'm doing and what I'm doing mentally.  And she watches me play a lot when she's out here.  She helps me out some.  She's a good sounding board, that's for sure.
Q.  You feel kind of more ready to win now than you did early in the year?  Is there any difference?
BO VAN PELT:  No, I think I, you know, I think it's just you got to give your self chances to win.  I think one of those days that Sunday is going to be your day.  But if you don't give your self the chances, then it's kind of hard to win.  So I just try to play the same way every day.  That's my attitude has been all year my attitude when I go to the golf course has been the same pretty much every day and every shot all year.  Haven't really thought that one day it was more important or one shot.  So that's just kind of how I tried to do it.
Q.  What made today's round special?  Anything in particular?
BO VAN PELT:  I hit a lot of fairways.  I hit my irons pretty well.  I played the par-5s like -- I birdied all of them.  So that kind of -- when you have a day like that, you kind of can get ahead of the game a little bit.  I only made one bogey.  And the bogey was made I 3-putted from probably 15 feet.  That was silly.  And it was one of those deals where I kind of got out of what I had been doing all day mentally and made a mental mistake and I caught it right then and got kind of back into what I was doing.
Q.  You've been so close a lot times this year, last week a guy comes from 180 the on Money List and wins.  Does that make you mad?  Do you find of?
BO VAN PELT:  No, I'm happy for him.  He's a great guy.  I think it shows how deep the fields are I think it goes to show you, you know, some guys that even if you haven't had a great year, you never know.  Your game could be closer than what the results are.  He's a great player and I was happy for him.  He's a nice guy.  All can I take care of is what I do.  So I just try to get better every day.
Q.  What's your schedule like the rest of the year?
BO VAN PELT:  I'm going to play them all out.  It's funny I wasn't going to play this week.  I was all year I've been planning ongoing to Oklahoma State home coming this weekend and watch them play Texas A & M.  Last week I was in Vegas, I kept myself committed and I was close to playing good, but like kind of was I'm still making some mental errors.  I told my wife it was funny, she goes, hey, do you feel like playing next week?  And I said, yeah.  And she's like well I think you ought to play.  I said, yeah, I think you're right.

So up until last Friday I wasn't even going to be here this week.  So it was just kind of a change I felt like hi more work to do and that I was better served by being out here playing.
Q.  Sound like she was trying to get rid of you?
BO VAN PELT:  Yeah.

(Laughter.)  The house is more, it's a little bit more calm when I'm not there, I guess.
Q.  So how many in a row is this for you?
BO VAN PELT:  Oh this is just No. 2.  I didn't play Jackson.
Q.  You play five in a row, I guess?
BO VAN PELT:  Yeah, if I make the TOUR Championship.  That will be five in a row.
CHRIS REIMER:  Go through your club selection on your birdies and bogeys.  Started on 10.  Started the day off with a birdie.
BO VAN PELT:  Yeah, I hit a driver and a 7-iron to about four feet.
CHRIS REIMER:  13.
BO VAN PELT:  I hit 3-wood and a 5-wood into the left bunker and hit it in there about a foot.

15, I hit driver and a 5-wood and in the left bunker and hit it about eight feet.
CHRIS REIMER:  Birdie at 17.
BO VAN PELT:  I hit a 3-iron about 15 feet.
CHRIS REIMER:  Second hole.
BO VAN PELT:  Hit a driver and a 5-wood, chipped it up about four feet.
CHRIS REIMER:  Then bogey on 3.  You had a 3-putt.
BO VAN PELT:  Yeah, I hit a 3-wood and a 5-iron, just behind the hole about 15 feet.  And 3-putted.  I ran it by.
CHRIS REIMER:  Birdie on 6.
BO VAN PELT:  I hit a 3-wood and a 6-iron to about 12 feet.
CHRIS REIMER:  And then finished the day with a birdie on nine.
BO VAN PELT:  Yeah, I hit a 3-wood on the green and 3-putted from about 35 feet, I believe.
CHRIS REIMER:  Any more questions?  All right.  Good luck this week.
BO VAN PELT:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT