U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 1996
Bo Van Pelt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BO VANPELT:  We played here in the college tournament last fall.  I thought the Witch was harder than the Ghost.  But I played the Witch better in the college tournament.  I don't know why.  I was happy with the round.

BO VANPELT:  Yeah, started on the backside.  Parred 10, 11, and 12, and then I birdied 4 holes in a row; made about an 8-footer on 13.  And then I two-putted from about 12 feet on 14.  Then knocked it about four feet to the next hole and made it.  Knocked about 5 or 6 feet on the next hole and made it.  Made a good up-and-down on the 17 from the bunker left.  I was about 30 yards short of the green, got it up-and-down.  And then I parred 18.  I birdied 1 and knocked it about 3 feet.  Parred 2.  Bogeyed 3; got a 9-iron in.  I got it a little fat and it came down the hill short.  Birdied the next hole at par 5.  Parred the next hole.  I bogeyed 6, the long par 4.  And I parred in.

BO VANPELT:  A lot better.  I didn't play that well, but it was the first tournament of the year and I didn't play that well.  I played a lot better today.

BO VANPELT:  I think it was the preview that was up here last fall.  I think that's what it was called, the Golf Week Preview or something like that.


Q.   What's your mentality in qualifying?  What are you trying to do?

BO VANPELT:  Today I just wanted to hit a lot of fairways and greens.  I hadn't been hitting my driver that well, and I only hit it about one time today.  I hit a 3-wood every hole except that. And just trying to get the ball on the fairway, because on Witch the greens are pretty firm, so it's important to get it in the fairway because it's hard from the rough.  I think you have to try to shoot as low as you can.  If you're just worried about qualifying for match play you're going to be on the cut line.  You're going to end up playing around there.


Q.   Who do you play for?  What college?

BO VANPELT:  Oklahoma State.


Q.   What year are you?

BO VANPELT:  I'll be a junior.


Q.   You're 21?

BO VANPELT:  Yeah.


Q.   The tournament that you played in, was that hosted by Oregon State?

BO VANPELT:  I don't know who it was hosted by.  It was supposed to be like the previews, like the 15 teams that play good --


Q.   It was a Nike event, I think?

BO VANPELT:  It was something like that.


Q.   And you do feel that Witch is tougher than Ghost Creek?

BO VANPELT:  I think a little bit.

BO VANPELT:  I played mostly around three, three or four most of the time. 


Q.   Another good score in here is Trip Kuehne.

BO VANPELT:  I saw he shot a 68 also.

BO VANPELT:  No, I haven't talked to him that much this summer.  He's been a good mentor for me in college.  He's a great player.  We have a lot of the same interests and we hang out a lot together.  I talked to him some after he got beat by Tiger, got to learn a little bit from him.  He's been good for me.  Watching him play, he's really good.

BO VANPELT:  Yes.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT