ANA INSPIRATION
April 4, 2021
Mel Reid
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Mel, 5-under 67 today, but not as solid as you would like.  Why so?
 MEL REID:   I'm usually a really good driver of the golf ball.  Drove it probably the worst I've driven it all week.  Yeah, just struggled all week with my driving, which is very unusual for me.  I tried to trust it and just even when I was trusting it wasn't going in the right direction, so lots of times out of the rough.
 I mean especially today I think that I've got to give credit my caddie, Desi.  We just managed it so well out of the rough.  We were in there plenty of times so kind of learnt very early on.  Obviously it's probably one of the grindiest tournaments I've had.  Like I'm mentally so drained because I just didn't hit it the way I wanted to off the tee.  Hit my irons great, but, yeah, just not off the tee.  Not good enough, I'm afraid.
 Q. So week off can't come soon enough?
 MEL REID:   Couple weeks off.  I'm not playing Hawaii.  Yeah, I'm going to chill, watch the Masters, definitely do some work on my driver.  But I think I know what it is.  It's just hard to trust it out there in a major championship.  I grind it on the range, but it's just tough to trust when the fairways are this narrow.  Would've been nice if I hit more fairways this week.  Maybe could have done somebody special.
 But overall I think the rest of the game is in really good shape.
 Q. I was going to say, what does it say when you can shoot a 67 but not have the driver working and just a little bit of tweaking?
 MEL REID:   I know, like I was saying to Jorge, my coach, and Howard, my mental coach, like I feel like I've had my C game this week and probably going to finish relatively decent.
 So just goes to show a lot of the hard work I been doing is paying off, mentally as well.  Just goes to show that even though my swing isn't quite where I want it's not going horrifically bad.  A lot of positives take this week, so overall I'm pretty happy.
 Q. Going home?
 MEL REID:   Going home, back to JAX, yeah, getting the red eye tonight.  Sit on my ass watching Masters for four days and then get back to the grind.
 Q. You got a Masters favorite for next week?
 MEL REID:   I'm always rooting for Rory.  Not going to lie.  See how Brooks does as well.  Obviously I want him to do well if he's fit.  I think Xander is going to be tough to beat this week.  I don't know, I've got a feeling about him this week.
 Q. Okay.  You said no Hawaii?
 MEL REID:   No.
 Q. Asia swing?
 MEL REID:   Not sure yet.
 Q. Not sure?
 MEL REID:   Not sure.  I don't know if I want to risk it.  We'll see.  Are you going?
 Q. I'm not.
 MEL REID:   Oh.  You're smart.
 Q. Megan is going.
 MEL REID:   Oh, is she?  Poor girl.
 Q. Enjoy the time off.
 MEL REID:   Thank you.  Appreciate it.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT