CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
September 18, 2020
Mel Reid
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. You had a better front nine today, which was your back nine.  How do you feel about going into tomorrow?
 MEL REID:   Yeah, I mean, I would've taken 67 at the start of the day.  It was difficult out there.  It's kind of that wet rain, which might sound a bit silly, but the club was probably going a club shorter.  There has been holes in the past where I've hit pitching wedge and sand wedge in and we were hitting 6-irons in today, so it was a very different golf course.
 Ball was spinning a bunch.  Like the first few holes, I mean, it was spinning back six, seven, eight yards, so you're just trying to control that as well.
 Yeah, I mean, I had a couple loose shots in there, but overall I would've taken 67 at the start of the day.
 Q. Since you haven't been able to practice that much, may I ask what have you become doing this week when we had so much time not being able to practice, being in your hotel room?
 MEL REID:   I don't mind it.  I think some of the girls freaked out.  I quite enjoyed the day extra day off.  I probably needed it.  I was quite tired from last week.
 Yeah, I'm pretty laid back when it comes to practicing and stuff at a tournament.  I kind of do all my work at home.  Felt the swing was in a good place and I really didn't mind.
 Got my partner here, so we just kind of chilled in the house that we're staying in and just distracted ourselves.  Yeah, I mean, there is nothing you can do.  It's kind of who controls it the best is going to kind of come out on top this week.
 Yeah, like I said, I felt like it almost did me a favor.
 Q. How did you feel today compared to other years you've played here?
 MEL REID:   Well I've never made the cut here, so this is a good start.  It's a funny golf course, I think because I'm not a big fan of courses that you have to shoot low at every single day to kind of make a little bit of a move; I prefer tougher golf courses.
 Yeah, like I said, it's playing different this year.  I still think the score is going to be low for the winner, but it's not going to be as low as in previous years, which I think is a bit more of a benefit.
 Yeah, so good start to the week.  Obviously it's day one.  Certainly not taking myself out of it and put myself in good position, so we'll see.
 Q. Two more questions?  What worked the most today?  Putting?  Short game?  Long game?
 MEL REID:   I mean, I hit it great last week and I didn't hit it as nicely as I would've liked today, so I'm going to do a little bit of work on the range.  I know exactly what I'm doing, so my putter felt really good today.  Holed some really nice putts.  Good momentum putts as well for par.
 So yeah, my putting, which shockingly to everyone has actually been pretty good today.  Been working quite hard and it's nice to see it pay off a little bit.
 Q. And lastly, what are you going to tell yourself mentally going into the next two rounds?
 MEL REID:   Just the same thing.  Feeling pretty good.  Obviously last week gave me a bunch of confidence.
 I've been working extremely hard the last kind of few months and consistently, and it's just nice to see a few good scores paying or for my hard work.
 Yeah, same mentality.  Just try and give ourselves as many chances as possible.  Yeah, we'll see where the next couple days take us.
 Q. Thank you so much and good luck.
 MEL REID:   Thank you so much.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT