KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 23, 2019
Mel Reid
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  We talked to you at the end of the 1st Round and you said you found something last week.  Did you find anything this week?  
MEL REID: Yeah.  Kind of disappointed about the 2nd and 3rd Round.  You know, I think I had six 3-putts in two rounds.  Could have been a different week.   
I played -- I've hit it really good all week, drove the ball really, really nicely which obviously helps around here, hitting it long.  Obviously the season I've had, like I said, I found something last week and I think we just -- I think making the cut on the number last week was a turning point for us.  I definitely found something.  It's just got to bring it into this week.   
 Q.  It's a career best finish for you out here.  
MEL REID: It is.   
 Q.  What kind of momentum does that give you for the rest of the summer, especially with two Majors left?  
MEL REID: Always talk about my talent and I'm so hard on myself, like I don't have -- I have more confidence outside of golf.  Kind of opposite to golf.  This has gave me air lot of confidence.  Obviously being at Solheim Cup, people pay more attention to me.   
Yeah, I mean this week was honestly just a lot of grit, lot of determination.  I was determined to get to 6 today.  So, I'm very, very happy.   
Just going -- I'm going to hang around for a bit.  Hopefully Hannah will do it, I would love for her to win.  I'll hang around for a little bit.   
 Q.  What sticks out about your round today?  
MEL REID: Great shot on 1.  I went for the pin, pulled my 8-iron, made a bogey there.  Not too close on the 2nd.  Made a super bogey on the 3rd and not too close on 4.   
Not too close on 5.  Went for it in two on 7, made a great putt there, like 25 feet.  9, again, hit about 6-foot.  11, hit it to three foot.  12, lipped out but made a horseshoe for birdie from -- it went in for par.  Made a horseshoe birdie there.  Missed my birdie putt.   
Made a great par save on 12, kept my momentum -- on 13.  So, kept my momentum.  Great par save on 14 as well.  Hit two drivers on 15 just short.  Holed a putt there.  Yeah, I should have birdied 16.  Could have maybe birthed 17.   
 Q.  Is it a confidence thing given the rest of the year went?  
MEL REID: Sort of it is.  I was having to work with Jorge part of a year.  I moved to America in October.  I changed a lot, got new place, changed my coach, changed my caddy, changed equipment, changed trainer.   
I always said it's going to take awhile for me to catch up because obviously with the new trainer it will take awhile for my body to adopt.   
I mean I'm feeling like it's catching up.  I hit it really, really good this week.  Feel like my body is in really good shape.  I honestly just busted my ass for like a good 6, 7 months, play -- whatever people have, an opinion me, I absolutely busted my ass for about 7 months.   
 Q.  To do what you did on a occurs like Hazeltine what does it mean to you?  
MEL REID: I didn't find it that long, honestly.  The girls were complaining about it.  I carry the ball far and hit it nice and high.  When I saw the course and saw the girls complaining, I actually thought this is perfect because I carry all the bunkers.  I can hit it high and stop it on these greens.  I actually felt pretty good going into this week.   
 Q.  Being a Solheim Cup year, what does a performance say like this in a statement to Catriona Matthews?  
MEL REID: Lot of girls playing well.  I would pick me because I think I bring a lot to the table other than my golf game.  Obviously, I love playing Solheim Cup.   
This is a result of hopefully they'll pay a little bit more attention.  I know I'll probably have to have a pick.  Keep the momentum for probably the next 6, 7 events, she hopefully won't have a choice but to pick me.   
 Q.  Who do you watch the rest of this -- weird kind of place to be in.  You still have a chance at it?  
MEL REID: It's a very slim chance, honestly.  15 is very birdieable, 16 if you get a good drive.  16 is really the only one, and 17 if you miss it there.  18 not playing easy today.  I just smoked a driver and 7-iron.  Definitely not easy.   
I'll just hang out for the next hour or so this afternoon.  Hannah is one of my friends.  I would absolutely love her to win.  It's weird, we kind of play practice rounds together.  She's always on the tee when I'm there.  I'm really impressed with how strong she's being.  I would obviously -- I would love to win.  If not I would love her to win.  I think it would be totally deserved for her.   
 Q.  The way this course fits your game would you like Hazeltine to host something again in the future?  
MEL REID: Absolutely.  The KPMG, always have -- the PGA of America, we want to play the big courses and the Hazeltines, Pebble Beachs, Winged Foots.   
We want to play the big courses the guys get the opportunity to play.  That's what's so great about this event and that's what everybody loves being at this event.  It's always a world class golf course that the guys have played.  That's what we love.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT