KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 20, 2019
Mel Reid
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  69.  Your best round ever in this third Major championship.  Mel, what got into you at the opening hole, then bogey-free the rest of the way after the 1st?  
MEL REID: Obviously the weather wasn't great.  I might be resident of Florida but I'm still very much British.  This is kind of standard day for us, this weather.   
I felt like I said to my caddy, this is almost an advantage for us.  Yeah, I mean honestly like it sounds weird because people look at results on the season and see it's not been great.  I kind of found something last weekend.  Really good weekend last week.   
My preparation this week has been very good, I've been very happy with the way things are going.  I'm actually feeling really good.  Missed a short-ish putt on the 1st for the birdie.  The front-9 kept me in it.   
 Q.  What did you find last weekend?  
MEL REID: I don't know.  I don't know what it is.  We've done so much work.  Done a lot of work in the off-season.  Obviously I've changed a bunch of stuff.  I feel like my body is now starting to catch up with the swing and credit to Jorge and my trainer, Kevin Donald.  I always said this season was the hardest season for me because I've changed so much, it's going to take awhile for me to catch up.   
Yeah, I don't know, I finally feel like it's in a good place.  Feel like in a good place.  Feel like everything is above average, my putting, my chipping, my pitching, my driving, my iron play.  So, it's just been very comfortable this week, which is kind of odd.   
 Q.  When you're making all those changes, how do you keep trusting it's going to work out when the results aren't backing it up?  
MEL REID: You got to.  I trust Jorge implicitly with everything.  Extremely hard worker.  I trust Ken.  I trust everybody on my team.  That's the most important thing is trust.   
You know, they work extremely hard for me and I work extremely hard for them.  This is obviously -- I know it's just Round 1, I know that.  It's nice that I felt comfortable this week and it's been nice that it's been a Major Championship.  We'll see.  You never know.  I'm just feeling pretty good about stuff.   
 Q.  Thanks for the time.  
MEL REID: Thank you.   
 Q.  How important was 16 making par there?  
MEL REID: Oh, when I was in the hazard?  Yeah.  To be honest, like it wasn't relatively hard shot.  I knew I hit the driver, I've actually leaked every driver right.  I hit three decent drives.  It's not like me.  Usually it's one of my strengths.  I hit it good enough I thought it carried but, yeah, I mean I mean I kind of like shots like that because it kind of takes a lot of guess work for me.  Hit it.   
I knew I could hit it high off over the trees.  I was actually fortunate.  I saved at least one shot there.  You look back at the end of the week and say maybe that was a big moment for me.   
 Q.  You mentioned having an advantage maybe here being British and playing in these types of conditions.  
 Looking at the forecast the rest of the week, how much kind of confidence, especially after you posted a good number today?   
MEL REID: Yeah.  I mean look, you can't do anything about the weather.  The last thing you want to do is complain.  You got to prepare.  Basically just pull your socks up and go on with it.   
When it's like this it takes probably some of the field out because they can't deal with it.  Another advantage, especially the people that carry it long and high, like I feel I'm one of those players, you know, the rough doesn't usually intimidate me that much because I feel I can get out of it like with my strength and I can hit it long enough, I can still carry the bunkers and stuff.   
Yeah, I mean, like I said, growing up in England obviously a slight advantage but I am a resident of Florida, got a bit of a fair weather golfer in me.  Can't moan about it, just got to go with it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT