SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
October 2, 2020
Mel Reid
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Mel Reid, the low round of the day.  How were you able to crack the code here at Seaview this afternoon?
MEL REID:   I don't know.  Obviously the greens are not as pure as they are in the morning, so you just got to try and hit good putts.
But I struck it really good.  I wasn't happy with the way I hit it yesterday, so we did a little bit work after the round.  Took a little bit more care in my warmup this morning just to get a good feel, and it worked out.  I drove the ball really nice.
Yeah, kind of a very stress-free 7-under.
Q. A nice back nine as well.  A bunch of birdies on the card, especially three as you came into the closing holes.  What was working so well, especially on that back nine?
MEL REID:   I missed a short one on the 10th actually.  Hit a really good putt; it just kind of bumped left on me.
I hit a great driver off the deck on 3; just missed that.
Then, yeah, I wanted to redeem myself on 7.  I was thinking on the tee I made five there yesterday, so I was trying to redeem myself and made a nice putt there for two.
Got things going nicely.  Obviously you can reach 9, so it was a nice little bonus birdie on 8.
Then, yeah, just felt good.  Holing good putts and hitting shots, and yeah, just rolling them in nicely.
Q. We've been seeing some stellar rounds out of you the last couple tournaments.  What have you been able to take from the last couple events into not only today, but this tournament in general?
MEL REID:   I took a lot of confidence prosecute ANA.  Funny enough, I didn't take a lot of confidence away from last week, even though I finished fifth.  I felt like I was little bit disappointed how I handled the last round, so I kind of wanted redeem myself the next couple weeks.
Yeah, I kind of wanted to get straight back into a tournament.  It was obviously nice being home for a week, but I actually wanted to play.  Took a few days off and regrouped and worked on a few things that I felt -- reflected on a few things I felt I didn't do great, and so hopefully going to take it into this weekend and see what happens.
Q. Did you like having that week off between Portland and this, or are you one of those that you just want to keep playing?
MEL REID:   I did want to keep playing, but I also did need a bit of time.  I was very, very tired on that Sunday.  I don't know if it was from ANA or the air quality there.  I didn't feel great for probably three, four days after that.
I said to -- because Dez came back with us, I said to Dex I didn't feel great until probably Saturday, back to my normal self.
Yeah, so it took me a few days, so I probably did need a week off, to be honest with you.
Q. After a round hike this, what does it do for your confidence heading into the weekend?
MEL REID:   Yeah, obviously it's nice to shoot 64.  You're only going to get confidence from that.
Was very happy the way I hit it.  Felt I handled things very well.  Like I said, the greens do get a little bit bumpy in the afternoon, but you just got to keep committing to hitting good putts, make sure your pace is on pointe, and, yeah, that's kind of what we did today.  Yeah, feeling pretty good about tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT