WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
January 31, 2013
Jim Mackay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Did you think he might have a hole‑in‑one that first par‑3?   It was like one foot, one and a half feet.   
JIM "BONES" MACKAY:   We knew it was going to be‑‑ yeah, there's not much of a crowd up there so you can't tell reactions.   It's also early in the day.   We knew it was good, and at that point‑‑ he made four 2s today, which we think is the first time he's ever done that.   Not sure.  
   
 Q.   What's his demeanor when he gets into a mode like that when he's going low?   
JIM "BONES" MACKAY:   Well, I'd say that's his kind of mode.   He enjoys it, and he's not‑‑ if it ends up not working out for him, he's going to go down giving you everything he's got if you know what I mean.   He's going to drive it on the last two holes, busted both of those two the last two holes coming in.   Went at that flag on our 16th hole, which I think‑‑ I always kind of think, boy, 20 feet right of the hole would be great, but he took the bunker on and hit it to five feet.   He's comfortable, he likes that kind of stage, and he's not scared.   
   
 Q.   Can you walk through the motions for you and feeling for your guy on that last putt?  
JIM "BONES" MACKAY:   I wanted it for him.   The funny thing was we were behind Bo yesterday; Bo shoots 59 in the pro‑am.   So we're sitting there on 17 tee, Bo is 9‑under for the day, and he hits the flag with his tee shot.   And so obviously we know‑‑ he and Bo were having a conversation about 59s, and Phil was like, are you kidding me, 59 any day is great.   So there we were 24 hours ago just talking about it, and of course Phil wanted every bit of it today if it would work out.  
   
 Q.   The 60 is great, but are you going to leave here disappointed that you didn't get that number?  
JIM "BONES" MACKAY:   No.   I mean, 60 is a nice start and happy to have it, and go out and see if he can make some birdies tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT