SENTRY TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 7, 2021
Robert Streb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. First off, congratulations on making it back here to Maui, which is always special, meaning great things.  Tell me about this first round.  I mean, it was a great round of golf.  I know there was a few you left out there, but overall you've got to be really pleased.
 ROBERT STREB:   Yeah, it's always great to be here.  And the weather was a little dodgy for about 40 minutes during warmup today.  It was pretty awful, but yeah, cleared up really nice and ended up playing a good round of golf.  Yeah, I left a couple out there but might have got away with one or two as well.
 Q. Talk to me about preparing to play this golf course.  You know at some point you're going to face some wind, some mist, some weather action.  How do you prepare it for that mentally and physically?
 ROBERT STREB:   Yeah, fortunately, with the wind, at least it's a big golf course, but yeah, it can chew you up a little bit here.  Luckily not much going on today.  I'm sure somewhere later in the week it will.  But it's kind of a hard one to prepare for because I don't feel like there's a whole lot of courses like it.
 Q. How would you assess first round of 2021?
 ROBERT STREB:   It went pretty well.  Wasn't sure what we were going to get this morning, the way the weather was at the start, but yeah, ended up being a really solid round.  Maybe left a couple out there, but I felt like I scored pretty well on the front, so it was, I don't know, I guess a good way to start the new year.
 Q. What was kind of working so well for you out there?
 ROBERT STREB:   Felt like I hit it all right and then felt like my putter was pretty solid.  I had a few little miscues there on the back nine with it, but I don't know, everything seemed to be all right and didn't get in too much trouble.
 Q. Does it take a little bit to kind of get used to like getting a competitive round out here, obviously with the grain, the downhill, uphill, wind, everything else?
 ROBERT STREB:   Yeah, at least for me it takes a couple days to try to get used to the greens, they have so much slope and.  Then obviously Bermuda grass has a little bit of grain, so sometimes it might appear like it doesn't break a lot and it might break four or five feet.  So there's definitely some adjustment there.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT