THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 8, 2017
Robert Streb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ROBERT STREB: Wish I maybe birdied 16 and 17, but hopefully gave myself a chance for tomorrow.
Q. When you flag it at a Par-5, kind of gives you a little bit more wiggle room down the stretch.  Were you ever thinking layup there or just a shot that worked out perfectly for you at 12?
ROBERT STREB: The lie ended up being pretty good, so I thought I could just get a hybrid on it, hopefully get it up there somewhere, chip-in, and give myself chance at 4.
Obviously panned out way better than that.
Q. You knew when you were entering this week you were needing some FedExCups points, and this is the final year of year of your exemption.  Going into tomorrow, a chance to win this golf tournament -  you know you can win this golf tournament - what's the game plan tomorrow?
ROBERT STREB: Just try to catch whoever is in front of me.  The points are kind of a byproduct.  Just going to try to catch up to those guys and see if we can win.
Q. The conditions today, did they adjust as the round went on and how did you adjust to them?
ROBERT STREB: It was a little breezy at the start.  It kind of laid off a little bit more there at the end, but the greens are starting to dry out.  Pretty tough to get close to the hole from the rough, so fairways are helpful.
Q. You have to be very pleased.
ROBERT STREB: Yeah, got off to a pretty good start with that long putt there on 1; rolling it pretty good.
Made quite a few birdies obviously and then hit that hybrid close on 12.  Maybe left a couple out there coming in, but hopefully have a chance tomorrow.
Q. Take us through your feelings going into the final round.  Any thoughts as far as your status for the season and next season and how important this week is for you?
ROBERT STREB: Trying to put that aside and trying to just focus on winning here and see if we can play well.  Hopefully the points will take care of themselves.
Q. How has the strategy been changing throughout the week?  Attacking these greens, is that a possibility?
ROBERT STREB: More so the last couple days than today.  I think the -- obviously the rain finally gave up and a little bit of breeze.  It's a little tougher out of the rough.
Ball is releasing a little bit, so you got to think about it some.
Q. Anything about your strategy that changes going into tomorrow?
ROBERT STREB: Try to keep doing what I'm doing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT