THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 4, 2016
Robert Streb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Robert, eight birdies, no bogeys today.  Did you see today coming on?
ROBERT STREB: No.  I felt like I'd been playing pretty good, but the 64, not necessarily.  Just hoping to shoot 3, 4, 5 under and see if I can move up a little bit.  Obviously, it panned out a little bit.
Q. You seemed to get on a roll there on the back nine.  What worked for you?  Did you feel like you were on a roll at that point?
ROBERT STREB: Yeah, I made a pretty good putt on 10, and then hit it close on -- chipped it close on 11.  Hit it pretty close on 12.  Had a good look on 13 from the fringe, and then I was close on 14, close on 15, and made a bomb on 16.  So it was kind of -- things were going pretty good.
I had a good look on 17, but didn't read it right.  I was happy with a par on 18.
Q. This is your best round by two all year.  Did you have any idea this might be coming?
ROBERT STREB: No.  This year's kind of been a struggle, but I felt like I've been playing pretty good the last few weeks, just getting zero out of it.
And yesterday I didn't play that bad.  I just made an absolute mess of the first two holes, and then I played fine after that.  So I wasn't necessarily playing bad.  I just wasn't scoring very well.
Q. I think, when people see 73 yesterday and 64 today and think you played so much better.  Like a lot of times it's not that big of a difference.
ROBERT STREB: I mean, there was a little bit of a difference.  I hit it pretty close today.
Q. So there is a big difference?
ROBERT STREB: For the most part.  But yesterday, aside from the start, I didn't play that bad.  Just put myself in a big hole early.
Q. You've played pretty well here in the past.  What about this course kind of fits your game, would you say?
ROBERT STREB: I haven't quite figured it out, but I like it here.  I think it's one of those places, if you play well, you can get a lot out of it.  Definitely pays to be in the fairway around here.
Q. You've had only two top 25 finishes this year.  Has there been one thing that's been kind of holding you back a little bit?
ROBERT STREB: I think I'm 178th in strokes gained putting, so that's not good.  The ball striking hasn't been great, but just the scoring has been a big problem this year.  Hopefully, I'll get it going in the right direction.
Q. Is there anything you changed with putting this week that maybe clicked for you, would you say?
ROBERT STREB: I put a different putter in the bag last week.  Just was trying to kind of more or less speed up my routine and my stroke.  It was getting kind of slow.  I think, for lack of a better term, giving me too much time to think.  So just trying to take the thought out of it and just putt.
Q. What did you switch to?
ROBERT STREB: Oh, just your basic -- I think it's a Newport 2, Scotty Cameron, (indiscernible) style looking.  Your very basic looking putter.
Q. Did it make a difference?
ROBERT STREB: I think it has.  I was getting to the point where I was looking down at that other putter and didn't feel good over it.  So it was time to look at something else.
Q. The rain is supposedly coming.  Do you prefer to play later in the day because of what it means?  Was it an advantage to play earlier in the day today?
ROBERT STREB: Sure, it can rain all it wants now.  Yeah, we got lucky with the weather.  You get the good greens too.  There hasn't been much foot traffic.  Yeah, it's always good to play early and get a good one and sit in the clubhouse.  But I guess we'll see what today has to bring.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT