THE RSM CLASSIC
November 17, 2015
Robert Streb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








An interview with:
ROBERT STREB
Q. ...in a similar situation when he won.  He was hot on every hole.  Is there anything about the course, the final round, that lends itself to these kind of streaks in the final rounds of this event?
ROBERT STREB: I guess the putting surfaces are really good, so maybe you get that hot putter, you're seeing the lines well, you can kind of get on a run.
Obviously need to be in the fairway, but the fairways can be pretty generous.  If the wind is not going too much you can get after it sometimes.
Q. When you look at coming in here last year, you had a couple solid finishes.  Are you that kind of player, that you get on this sort of run?  Because I look back a couple weeks ago around the Bridgestone and the PGA and you got on a very similar run.
ROBERT STREB: You know, I never really thought of it that way, but the more I look at it it seems to kind of be that way.
You kind of get your confidence going, kind of get some good tournaments under your belt, and you feel like you can win most weeks or get in the hunt.
So it's definitely one of those momentum things I guess for me.  Maybe not playing my best coming in this year, but hopefully I can spin it around.
Q. What's the difference between you this year and last year from the standpoint that you won last year; haven't won this year, but you seem by all accounts to be a much better player than a year ago?  Agree or disagree?  And could you make this a really long answer?
ROBERT STREB: Yeah, I guess I could.  I felt like I was playing a little bit better last year coming into this.  Obviously done some better things over the past year.  You know, got pretty close on a couple other tournaments; played pretty well in a couple majors.
The resume is probably better, but I don't know that I'm actually playing better at this point.  You never know when it's going to turn around, and hopefully doesn't take too long.
Q. (No microphone.)
ROBERT STREB: Yeah, I feel like my game has improved.  I'm a little more consistent than I used to be.  Kind of just have a better feel for my game and how to approach the golf courses.
Coming back it places you've been before is pretty helpful.  So I feel like my game is better as a whole, but maybe not firing on all cylinders at the moment.
Q. How often have you been able to play the Plantation course.
ROBERT STREB: Played it once about ten years ago.
Q. Not yet this week?
ROBERT STREB: No.  I am playing the pro-am tomorrow.
Q. The wind is going to turn around.  Friday be a northeast winds.  I know might hard because you haven't actually played the course, but do you think Plantation is going to be tougher than Seaside?  About even?  Also, from what you've been able to gather out there, there was rain in August and another spell a couple weeks ago, is the course still a little bit soft?
ROBERT STREB: Yesterday it was a little soft.  I don't know how long it takes them to dry it out.  Maybe not too long.
Hopefully get kind of firm and fast like it did last year.  If not, the surfaces are still good.  Just a little softer.  Hopefully Plantation will play about the same.  Sometimes it makes it a little easier to gauge the scores for Thursday/Friday.
I guess we'll see.
Q. When you get your next sponsor endorsement, where on the shirt is that going to go?
ROBERT STREB: That's a good question.  Are you offering?
Q. No.  I was just wondering.  You're running out of room there.
ROBERT STREB: Yeah.  I got a little space over here.  You could make room for you if you want.
Q. But that's not a prime position.
ROBERT STREB: We could maybe move a couple around if you're willing to pay for it.  (Laughter.)
Q. You listed in your media guide as a bucket list item an OU-Texas game.  This game was held this year the week of the Presidents Cup.  You were off that week.  Did you take care of your bucket list?
ROBERT STREB: I dropped the ball on that one.  I was going to Fry's a little early to play Ricky Barnes' pro-am to try to help him out.  Maybe I will just have to be choosy and try to go when they're both good.
THE MODERATOR: All right, any last questions?  Thank you so much for joining us today.
ROBERT STREB: You got it.  Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT