WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 6, 2015
Robert Streb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Just talk about today and how you played.ROBERT STREB: Much better than Tuesday.  Had to shake the rust off a little bit from a two-week break.  Got pretty warm there, the first ten holes, and then cooled off a little bit.  Felt like I played pretty good.Q. How was it on the course first time seeing it?ROBERT STREB: It's hard.  Just one of those old golf courses, you've got to hit it well.  They obviously have those tee boxes making you hit the drivers.  The firmness of the fairway kind of shrinks them, but if you hit it well, I think you've got a pretty good chance.Q. Are you surprised by how tough the course was playing this morning?ROBERT STREB: Yeah, the scores surprised me a little bit, but maybe they do when you're playing well.  It's a pretty good little test.  I felt like I drove it pretty well.  That part was nice, and then obviously the greens are very quick.Q. Did The Open, and kind of hanging around in contention for so long, do anything for you or change the way you look at yourself?ROBERT STREB: Probably just kind of adds that confidence and that comfort.  Obviously, the field here is very good.  But you don't feel -- you're not staying on the range watching everybody hit it, kind of like you do the first couple when you see all the guys.  But just -- yeah, a little more comfort.  I know I'm playing pretty well, so just trying to hang around a little bit.Q. When's that going to wear off, the looking around?ROBERT STREB: Not until the first couple of big events.  The first year you get there, maybe even the Masters a little bit, you're kind of in awe, and you kind of forget to work.  You're just kind of looking around at everything and spend more time oohing and aahing than you do actually playing golf. So just kind of getting comfortable with being out here with all the big names.Q. How are the greens?ROBERT STREB: They're fast.  Not unfair or anything, but definitely have to pay attention.  It makes it a little tough to make a run at a putt because you don't really want that 4-footer down the hill either.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT