THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 5, 2015
Robert Streb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Down here with Robert Streb.  That was a lot more interesting than it could have been.  I understand it's like the third time that that particular putter has been broken, but this time you weren't actually trying.ROBERT STREB: No, I was not trying actually on any of them.  I've probably just been a little bit too rough with them in the past.  I kind of tossed it right next to the bag and it hit the bottom and went flying, like uh-oh.  But get it fixed next week and put it back.Q. You might need it today, although I'm not quite sure whether that's even within the rules.ROBERT STREB: They said I can get another one, so I got one in my locker that's kind of similar, so throw it in the bag, see how it goes.Q. It's got to be a little bit difficult because you putted so well with the sand wedge.  Which wedge was it and why did you choose it?ROBERT STREB: The 56.  My caddie Steve actually was like, you might want to grab the one with the flattest edge, so gave it a rip and made a few putts with it.Q. There's nothing like a caddie giving you the right club.ROBERT STREB: No, he got it just right.Q. Before we talk about your incredible round on the back nine where you rolled all those putts in with the 56-degree wedge, how did the putter break in the first place?  It was on the 9th hole, correct?ROBERT STREB: I was a little frustrated I left it short, and I meant to just -- I wasn't tossing it very far, I meant it land it next to the bag, and it hit the bottom of the bag and the head went flying.  It was not my intent, but that was what happened, and so I was like, well, let's see what we can do with a wedge and I stuffed a couple right from there and made a couple of good putts.Q. How surprised were you with the results of putting with the wedge?  Did you do it before?  Did you get a feel as you went along?  How did it work out there for you?ROBERT STREB: Yeah, those couple of short ones to start were nice.  I've never had to do it in competition, so wasn't sure what to expect.  I made a long one on 13 and unfortunately 17 I gassed it a little bit, but I would say it went better than I expected.Q. Now, just to clarify if you do get into a playoff you are able to use another putter, correct?ROBERT STREB: That's what I've been told.Q. You said you had one in your locker that you could use that's similar?ROBERT STREB: Uh-huh, yes.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT