WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 15, 2015
Robert Streb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (Inaudible.)
ROBERT STREB:   Felt like I scored pretty well.   Hit a few errant shots.   Had a few pretty good holes in the middle of the round.   Nice up and down there on 7 so kind of got it going there for a few holes.   Held on at the end.

Q.   (Inaudible).
ROBERT STREB:   Yeah.   The putter has been doing better this week.   It's always nice to make it.

Q.   (Inaudible). 
ROBERT STREB:   Yeah.   One of those things I never changed as a kid.

Q.   (Inaudible).
ROBERT STREB:   Just trying to be patient.   I have the confidence I know I can do it but I got to hit good shots over the weekend.

Q.   We're with coleader Robert Streb.   Not the 65 you had on Thursday.   Solid 69.   How would you compare today's round with yesterday?
ROBERT STREB:   Few errant shoots shots here and there.   Missed a couple of good opportunities on 9 and 10 with putts that didn't go in.   Played pretty good most part there in the middle of the round, tough getting home.

Q.   We talked about this the other day, you won in the fall this season.   Lately you've been struggling.   Do you remember a turning moment in your game?
ROBERT STREB:   Kind of last week I made some putts.   I had a lot of bogies.   I felt like I was making the birdies.   If I can just kind of get it strung together for a week I feel like I can get it for four rounds.

Q.   Halfway on this championship.   What do you need to do now to complete the deal and win for the second time on the PGA TOUR?
ROBERT STREB:   Just try to be patient, have the confidence with your putter and hit fairways and greens.

Q.   You were playing some great golf so far halfway through the Wells Fargo Championship.
ROBERT STREB:   It's been going good.   My misses haven't got me in too much trouble with the exception of 16.   That wasn't a very good miss there.   Just kind of hanging around, making some putts.   Hopefully hit it nice and solid over the weekend and keep the putter going.

Q.   Through the middle of this round here in the 2nd Round you make three birdies in four holes.   Did you think at that point you might be able to squeeze a couple more shots out of this second round?
ROBERT STREB:   Yeah.   Hit one close on 9.   Just took a good trip around the hole.   Left it just short of the hole on 10 and missed a couple chances there but made a nice birdie on 13 and kind of leaked a little oil coming in.   But not too bad.

Q.   You had a pretty good finish for last year, tied for 23rd.   What is it about this place you like?
ROBERT STREB:   You need to draw it a fair amount.   It's looks good to my eye.   A great golf course.   If you're playing well you're going to be right there.

Q.   How are you feeling about the weekend right now?
ROBERT STREB:   It's good.   We'll see.

Q.   You want to start off talking about what continued to go well today?
ROBERT STREB:   Kind of couple of decent breaks off the tee.   Little bit of a rocky start ball striking there at the start.   Found a little rhythm there, 7 through 13 or so.   15, 16 I hit some bad drives.   16 obviously.   Did well to make bogey.   Just trying to hang in there making some putts and hopefully I can hit it nice and solid over the weekend.

Q.   Kind of feel like you had to go low again?   Seemed like there were prime scoring conditions out there, lot of guys firing low numbers.
ROBERT STREB:   Obviously very good scoring conditions.   I didn't want to get ahead of myself but definitely trying to make as many birdies as possible.

Q.   How about you going into the weekend with the lead, how does it feel compared to just being in the middle of the pack?   What type pressure does that bring for you?
ROBERT STREB:   Probably be a little bit different but it's where you want to be, the last groups on the weekend.   There are some big names at the top.   Try to stick to my game and don't pay too much attention to all the other stuff.

Q.   What happened on 16?
ROBERT STREB:   Pull hooked it.   Went down the hill in the water.   They had an equidistant drop there cross the pond.   Several other guys had taken it. 
So I didn't have much down there by the little tree stump.   It was very steep and took it over there, hoping I drew a decent lie and it wasn't too bad.   Popped it over there short of the bunker and made a nice putt for bogey.

Q.   We've seen a couple golfers lose strokes coming down the Green Mile.   What are those last three holes like for you as far as just getting through them and doing what you have to do to stay on top, keep the lead?
ROBERT STREB:   Just got to try to hit good shots.   You can't try to gut it around those three holes.   Just got to toughen up and hit some good ones.

Q.   Just the putting this week like you had talked about or something else?
ROBERT STREB:   Few pretty nice little bounces here and there.   But, yeah, just kind of feel like the short game is there and if I feel like if I get a pretty decent chance at it I've got a good chance of making it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT