WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 14, 2015
Robert Streb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DOUG MILNE:   Robert Streb, thanks for joining us for a few minutes after a very successful bogey-free 7-under 65 in Round 1.   Making your 3rd start here in the Wells Fargo Championship.   Just a few comments on the clean card today.
ROBERT STREB:   I did really well.   Hit some good shots here and there but I felt like I scored really well.   Few of my mishits were fine.
DOUG MILNE:   With that we'll open it up to questions.   Rex.

Q.   Kind of look at the way the season has gone (inaudible) --
ROBERT STREB:   I can probably blame it on that.   Just obviously an adjustment.   Wasn't playing very well there for awhile.   Probably last week I had a pretty solid tournament.   Few hiccups here and there but was making some birdies.   Really everything kind of trending the right way at the moment.

Q.   Did you have anything on the range that you were in for a good round or is that something that you're never sure about?
ROBERT STREB:   Yeah, never.   Sometimes you flush it on the range and can't find the golf course.   Other times hit it pretty poorly on the range and hit it great.   Nothing great there but made a nice putt on the 2nd hole and a few other putts.   I got the putter going.

Q.   One of the things, I think your putting, find something last week coming into this week to help?
ROBERT STREB:   Yeah.   Kind of got my hands pushed forward a little bit.   They were sinking back.   Finally just made some putts over five, six feet, just putted solid and sometimes a few go in and it changes.

Q.   Did that start last week and carryover to this week?
ROBERT STREB:   Kind of feel like, yeah.   Last week was the first time in awhile I felt like I had putted pretty solid for the most part so try to keep it going the right way and see a few go in.   Sometimes you get rolling.

Q.   Are you comfortable seeing your name up on the top of the leaderboard?
ROBERT STREB: Probably more comfortable than I used to be, yeah.   It's always nice to be up there but there's a lot of golf left to be played.

Q.   What did you learn that first win?
ROBERT STREB:   You don't have to play perfect, just sometimes get that first win you feel like you got to have a perfect week in golf and you don't.   First hole that week, it was tough.   Just try to be patient and see if you can give yourself a chance on Sunday.

Q.   Here, you've been two years, missed cut then tied for 23rd last year.   Is that a product of being more comfortable with the course or just a better week?
ROBERT STREB:   Probably some of both.   You get pretty -- get used to looking at this place.   Obviously a good test of golf and I didn't play very well the first time around and last year I was fresh off a tied for 2nd in Louisiana so felt like I was playing pretty good.
DOUG MILNE:   Real quick, if you would just run us through your birdies, just give us some clubs and yards and we'll cut you loose.
ROBERT STREB:   See if I can remember.   No. 10, 254 to the hole.   Hit a 3-wood on the back of the green and two-putted.   Pretty nice way to start.   Birdie is always good.
11, had 164 or so out of the pine straws, downwind.   Hit a 9-iron to 15, 20 feet and made it.
15, hit a 2-iron up there just left of the green, chipped it up to four, five feet and little left to righter.
17, hit 8-iron from 168.   Wind was helping a little bit.   Tried to take a little bit off of it.   Hit it 25, 30 feet past the hole and made a nice long putt there.
No. 2, hit an 8-iron right at it, came up 15 feet short and a little bit right and made a nice putt there as well.
And then No. 5, had about 50 yards from just short of the fairway, pitched it up there about ten feet and made it.
Then No. 7, ran it up there just short, had a nice break with my tee ball.   Hit it up there just short and hit my pitch way too hard, smashed the flag and went to about four feet and made that one.

Q.   Were you ever in danger ever dropping a shot?
ROBERT STREB:   I'm trying to think.   I made a nice par putt on No. 13, probably 8, 9 feet up the hill there, and then made a good putt on No. 4, it was 7, 8 feet left to right.

Q.   What happened on No. 7?   Where did you hit the pin from?
ROBERT STREB:   About ten yards short of the green.   Hit my pitch too hard.   Luckily it hit the flag so I thought I was going to get a little spin on it.   Still hit it too hard.   Everything was going my way.
DOUG MILNE:   All right.   Robert, great playing.   We appreciate your time and best of luck.
ROBERT STREB:   Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT