WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
January 30, 2015
Robert Streb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Today how was it out there for you?ROBERT STREB: I was just trying to survive.  It's pretty wet there a couple of times.  Last few holes were nice and dried up, but just trying to scratch and claw and hang around.Q. Did you play much in Kansas this winter?  Did this feel like it at all?ROBERT STREB: It's a lot warmer.Q. In Kansas?ROBERT STREB: No, here.  No, when it's raining at home I pretty much avoid it, kind of like any other golfer.Q. Not preparing for rainy days on the PGA TOUR?ROBERT STREB: It's probably why I'm not a great rain player.Q. Do you feel happy playing a pretty good round today?ROBERT STREB: Yeah, I was happy to be under par, just hitting some long shots into those par-4s.  I felt like par or better you did pretty good in the conditions.Q. What's been the key to your consistency this season?ROBERT STREB: I don't know.  I feel like I'm doing everything pretty well.  Kind of making some timely putts and hitting some pretty good shots.  To me it seems pretty even.  The stats might show you otherwise.  I'm not sure. Sometimes my perspective is skewed, but I feel like I'm doing everything pretty well.  Just feel pretty comfortable playing tournament golf right now.Q. Does it feel a little strange to be making your seventh or eighth starting season when there are guys out here making their first or second?ROBERT STREB: Yeah.  Maybe one of these days I can be good enough to play just a few times a year, but for me I need all the starts I can get.Q. How much are you monitoring or is there any chance of the baby coming early?ROBERT STREB: I don't think so.  But that being said, you never know.  The doctors seem to think Tuesday at 9:00 a.m. is going to be the time.Q. You have it down to a time?ROBERT STREB: You got it.Q. I didn't realize that was a possibility.ROBERT STREB: Yeah, it's like a scheduled surgery and just going to be a C-section.  Scheduled C-section, and hopefully nothing changes.  We'll see.Q. Do you have a pager in the bag, like Phil?ROBERT STREB: No, I'm hoping somebody can come find me and I'll be out of here.Q. You started really quickly.  This week Phil and Tiger missed the cut.  Does it feel to you guys like a changing of the guard at all?  I mean, Justin's up there, Daniel is up there.  Rory shot a 64 shot.ROBERT STREB: There is definitely more young guys than there used to be.  Obviously Tiger kind of set a bar for everybody, the fitness and everything else, but unfortunately age is one of those things.  It's a hard thing to fight. You know, any other sport, they would probably be past their time.  That's the nice thing about golf.  You can play for a long time and, you know, happy to keep him around.  That would keep the TV ratings up.Q. Last minutes before fatherhood, does it feel any different?ROBERT STREB: Maybe a little bit.  I'm sure it will feel different on Tuesday.  I'm not real sure what to expect, but we'll see.Q. The whole changing of guard mentioned, is that something we pay more attention to than you guys do?ROBERT STREB: I don't pay much attention to it.  Just like any other week.  You're trying to beat everybody.  But that being said, you know, a lot of guys make comments there are a lot more guys in their 20s than there used to be.  I'm sure it's changing a little bit.  It has to at some point.Q. I guess at the end of the day you guys, week in and week out, are competing against the course more than...ROBERT STREB: Yeah, it's different.  You're not playing against another team.  You're playing the field, playing against the course.Q. It's not Federer versus Nadal, right?ROBERT STREB: No.  No, it's a little different.  That's a different part, I guess.  You don't pay too much attention to what everybody else is doing.Q. Did you get home in 2 on 15?ROBERT STREB: No, I laid up.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT