SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 6, 2014
Robert Streb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Robert, put the blinders on, kept it going.   Fantastic start.   
ROBERT STREB:   Yeah, kind of picked up where I left off.   Hit it pretty good today.   I had a few more putts squeak by the edge, but overall played really well.  
   
 Q.   Your putter was so hot a couple of weeks ago.   These greens when you got here, did you just look at them and say I can definitely keep it rolling on these things?  
ROBERT STREB:   Yeah, they were really good, probably just as good as they were a couple weeks ago.   But that little paint on them kind of hides the green, but they're very good.  
   
 Q.   A couple of gettable par‑4s, obviously the par‑5s here, scoring‑wise when you got to the golf course today, what did you expect and what did the golf course give you?  
ROBERT STREB:   I wasn't too sure.   I thought it might be a little wind year and a little colder at the start, but the weather was pretty darned good, and the greens were perfect, so you could get after it.  
   
 Q.   How do you play with momentum?   How do you approach it given the high that you're on right now?  
ROBERT STREB:   I think you probably just are pretty confident over whatever you stand over.   You feel like you can get it done.   You just played well.   You're not really searching.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk a little bit about the course?   For all of us this is new.   
ROBERT STREB:   It's a pretty good track.   You know, the rough unfortunately went a little bit dormant, but it's still penal, and the greens are a little bit soft, so you can get it because they're rolling perfect.   It's a nice golf course.   
   
 Q.   What are the scoring holes after you've seen it now?   
ROBERT STREB:   Oh, some of the shorter par‑4s and then obviously the par‑5s, as long as you can keep it in play there, you get a lot of chances to wedge it close.   
   
 Q.   There's a short par‑4 on the back, I believe it's No.15, did you try to drive the green on that one?  
ROBERT STREB:   Yeah, I hit driver, ended up in the right greenside bunker there.   As long as that pin is not tucked over the bunker, you can kind of get after it there.   
   
 Q.   What did you make on the hole?  
ROBERT STREB:   I ended up making birdie.   
   
 Q.   During this hot stretch that he was talking about, your putter was going well, has that been the key, or has it been some other things?   Why are you playing so well?  
ROBERT STREB:   Today I felt like I hit it pretty well.   Made a few putts, but I think you've got to make some to be playing well.   It's kind of one of those things.   If you can get the putter rolling, you don't have to play perfect golf.  
   
 Q.   On 9 we saw you just miss that birdie.   Were you pretty much all around it all day?  
ROBERT STREB:   Yeah, I had a few pretty good chances that I didn't make, but I made a couple of longer ones, so all in all, it was pretty good.  
   
 Q.   What was the longest one would you say?  
ROBERT STREB:   I've got to think about it now.   It might have been on 15 I made a pretty good putt there of 15 feet or so.   I didn't hit the best bunker shot.  
   
 Q.   After you won you said you went back home, went to the Royals game; obviously didn't end well for you, but any good stories from it?  
ROBERT STREB:   Got pretty fortunate there, got some tickets for 6 and 7, and the city was just loving it, so it was pretty exciting.   A lot of people spent a lot of time in the parking lot before the game, so there was some pretty decent people watching.   
   
 Q.   Tailgating for baseball?  
ROBERT STREB:   Oh, yeah, they're not scared about it there in Kansas City.   It shares a parking lot with the football stadium, so there's plenty of room.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the momentum coming off the win and your approach this week.   
ROBERT STREB:   You know, I actually wasn't too sure what I was going to get.   I didn't play a whole lot of golf last week.   A little bit of work on the range, and it didn't take too long to find it, so it was pretty exciting.  
   
 Q.   When you say a little bit of work on the range, here, you mean?  
ROBERT STREB:   Uh‑huh.  
   
 Q.   Did you play in the pro‑am?  
ROBERT STREB:   I did.   I got here Monday night and played Tuesday and Wednesday because I didn't know if the weather was going to hold yesterday.  
   
 Q.   Did you play an entire practice round?   You said you saw the entire course.   
ROBERT STREB:   I've seen it twice before today.   
   
 Q.   Did it play any differently today once the competition started, or was it pretty much what you expected?  
ROBERT STREB:   It might have played a little bit longer just because it wasn't real warm and it was a little bit soft.   Yeah, kind of what I expected.   
   
 Q.   And did you bogey 18?   Did I see that?  
ROBERT STREB:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   What happened with that?  
ROBERT STREB:   I hit it left and then hit it in the front left bunker, and the bunker shot was probably eight, ten feet short and just missed it.  
   
 Q.   And when you hit it left, did you not have a shot to the green?  
ROBERT STREB:   I did.   I had a nice lie and I was standing on the cart path and just mis‑hit it.   
   
 Q.   What kind of score is it going to take this week?  
ROBERT STREB:   Probably a little lower than I thought.   You know, you never know.   It just kind of depends on if the wind picks up or if it dries out.   If the greens get firmer, it'll change, but if they stay kind of soft, the scores will be pretty low.  
   
 Q.   Hole No.16 is a pretty long par‑4, has the swamp on the left there, what did you think of that hole?  
ROBERT STREB:   I thought it was easier today.   The wind was off the right, so you could kind of sweep it in there without having to hang it over the trouble.   But it's a very good golf hole.  
   
 Q.   What did you do on that hole?  
ROBERT STREB:   Just missed my birdie.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT