THE McGLADREY CLASSIC
October 26, 2014
Robert Streb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Well, a 63 on Sunday for Robert Streb.   Tied for low round of the week.   Must have been fun out there.   How were you able to attack the Seaside layout?  
ROBERT STREB:   It was a lot of fun.   Got off to a bit of a tough start, but made quite a few putts and stuffed a couple of wedges, and before you know it, you have a whole pile of birdies.  
   
 Q.   Take me through 16 and 17.   You really had the putter working coming in.   
ROBERT STREB:   Yeah.   16, I draw the ball, so the right flight wasn't great.   It was over there left where I wanted to.   Got the putt just right.  
17, pulled it a little bit, but made another long one which was really nice.  
   
 Q.   And take me to you the 18th.   I know you wanted that last one, and then you saw the board.   
ROBERT STREB:   Yeah.   I kind of fanned the drive a little bit.   Hit a really good 5‑iron, and I think I had the read right and forgot to hit it.  
   
 Q.   Thanks, Robert.   We'll see if 14 holds up.   Let's talk about the 63.   What a nice round, especially the Back 9, but at 18 I thought you had five in a row.   What were you thinking?  
ROBERT STREB:   I was just trying to get the read right, and I think I forgot to hit it.   The greens have been pretty quick and I hadn't really had a slow one all day and just kind of forgot to hit it.  
   
 Q.   What were you thinking, that maybe 15‑under is where you needed to be?  
ROBERT STREB:   I wanted to get to 15.   I thought that might have a chance, but you never know; right?   
   
 Q.   Yeah, this must be kind of nerve‑wracking for you, sitting around, waiting around for another hour or so.   What are you going to be doing?  
ROBERT STREB:   I have no idea.   I guess just hang around and we'll see if Brendon gets to 15 or not and go from there.  
   
 Q.   Tell us a little bit about the back nine, though.   Four birdies in a row.   Of course, the putter, it woke up and got really hot, didn't it?  
ROBERT STREB:   Yeah, it did good.   Kind of sputtered there at the start of the Back 9, and then hit it close on 14 and two‑putted 15 and then made two long ones on 16 and 17.   So it helped.  
   
 Q.   How good did that feel?  
ROBERT STREB:   It was nice.  
   
 Q.   Well, congratulations on a great round, and hopefully it's going to work out for you.   
ROBERT STREB:   Yeah.   Hopefully.   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   All right, Robert.   You made quite a run today.   Talk about kind of your emotions on the Back 9 and thinking about the number that maybe you needed to put up to have a chance to win the golf tournament.   
ROBERT STREB:   Yeah.   I got off to a little bit of a slow start there on the back, a little frustrated, and then hit a close wedge on 14 and good shot on 15.   
I was sitting there, well, maybe I'm back in it and then made two long putts and didn't quite get to the hole there on 18, but got back into it in a hurry.  
   
 Q.   I saw your reaction there on 18.   You took a good long look at the leaderboard after.   What were you thinking?  
ROBERT STREB:   I wanted to get to 15.   I mean you never know, but I thought 15 would be a pretty good number.  
   
 Q.   Also, seven straight rounds I think for you in the 60s, going back to last week at the Shriners.   What's going right in your game?  
ROBERT STREB:   Just kind of scoring well.   I scratched a pretty good round out on Thursday.   Didn't play very well, and birdied my last four to get to 1‑under, and just kind of been hanging in there, and then a couple of days have been really well.  
   
 Q.   How much is momentum a factor for you when you feel like you get your game going?  
ROBERT STREB:   Seems to be a pretty big factor.   I've gotten on a few pretty good runs lately, so I guess once I get it going, I usually have a few birdies in a row there.  
   
 Q.   Did it carry over from the FedExCup, because you had some time off, and then you kind of came back, I think you finished in the Top 10 at Deutsche Bank, and then was Shriners your first event then?  
ROBERT STREB:   I actually played the Frys.   Didn't get off to a great start there, but had a good Sunday, and then everything's been going pretty good.   
   
 Q.   Robert, just comment on an excellent day for you.  
ROBERT STREB:   It didn't get off to my best start bogeying the first hole, but got it going pretty good there for a little while.   
Unfortunately I had that one little three‑putt from across the green, but everything else, I scored pretty well today.  
   
 Q.   Talk a little bit about your play of late.   Played really good in the PLAYOFFS, and now you're trending in the right direction here in the first three events of the season.   
ROBERT STREB:   Yeah.   I think that second last year at the Zurich and then that Top 10 to finish the season were a big help, kind of feel like I can play out here and compete and get in the mix, and just trying to keep after it.  
   
 Q.   That's kind of what I'm doing a story around, some guys who are faring well so far in the season.   But kind of struggled the last couple of years or their rookie year.   Can you talk a little bit about your rookie year, some troubles maybe you went through, what you learned about yourself during that year?  
ROBERT STREB:   Got off to a pretty good start, actually, and then sputtered for a couple of months.   I don't think I made a cut for two months, and I got at that point where I was getting tired but I had to play.   
And you know, when you're first out here, you don't feel like you want to miss anything, but you have to take a few weeks off and get some rest.   And you get comfortable, you know where everything is, where the courses are when you've played them, all that fun stuff.   So I think some of it is figuring out how you work and some of it's just being comfortable.  
   
 Q.   Is there anything that's changed about your game since your rookie year?  
ROBERT STREB:   Just trying to improve.   Trying to get wedges closer, putt better, drive it better.   Just kind of try to keep steadily improving and just try not to lose sight of those holes.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT