CROWNE PLAZA INVITATIONAL AT COLONIAL
May 23, 2014
Robert Streb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Nice start, 66, 68, 1‑back.   
ROBERT STREB:   Yeah, it's going pretty good.   Made a few putts yesterday and been hitting it pretty well, so just try to stick to it the next couple days.  
   
 Q.   Hitting it pretty solidly, but just 3 of 14 fairways today.   Talk to me how you scrambled your way around the course?   
ROBERT STREB:   I don't know.   I guess I didn't get behind too many trees, so, yeah, it worked out all right.   Hopefully, I'll hit a few more fairways.  
   
 Q.   You're pretty handy out of the kitty litter there though, 3 for 3 out of the sand.   Your mindset going into the weekend?   You had a tough one at ZURICH a few weeks back.   Playing pretty solidly, what do you have to do around the weekend here to catch your first one?   
ROBERT STREB:   Just try to stay to my game plan.   Not get too flustered, and hopefully make some putts.  
   
 Q.   What do you like about this golf course?   It's pretty old school here at Colonial, tight fairways, small screens, bentgrass greens also.   They're running pretty smoothly.   
ROBERT STREB:   Yeah, they're always pretty good.   The old‑school courses are always a little bit of fun, and you better make sure you don't get short side sighted.  
   
 Q.   Pro since 2009, one Top 10 finish, what would it mean to you to win this event?   
ROBERT STREB:   Pretty much everything.   It would be great.   Obviously, secure your card for a couple of years, and it would just be nice to get a win out here and kind of feel like you belong and everything else.  
   
 Q.   Talk about just the pressure of some of these tournaments and seeing some of the guys.   Looking at Adam Scott today, golf is tough.   
ROBERT STREB:   Yeah, everybody has their good days and bad days.   Obviously, the best guys are more consistent than others, but try to take advantage of your good weeks.  
   
 Q.   What is it about this course today that's playing well for you?   
ROBERT STREB:   Just feel like I'm hitting it pretty well.   Getting a lot of chances for birdie and everything kind of seems to be going the right way.  
   
 Q.   You've only bogeyed one.   
ROBERT STREB:   Yeah, yeah.   Just trying to play toward the middle of the green and take your 15‑, 20‑footer and hope you make a few.  
   
 Q.   Do you like playing this old style of course?   
ROBERT STREB:   Yeah, they're always kind of fun.   Nice, easy walk and kind of know what to expect and make sure you don't miss it on the short side.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT