ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 26, 2014
Robert Streb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Bogey‑free, you got a couple runs there with birdies back‑to‑back, the rest of the day kind of so‑so, but you hung in there. 
ROBERT STREB:   Yeah, I felt like I did pretty well.   I had one really bad wedge shot and other than that I played pretty well.   I had some close early and didn't quite make them, but it turned out to be a pretty good round.

Q.   What were your thoughts out there?   Playing in the ultimate group, but the leaders kind of stuck near the lead? 
ROBERT STREB:   Yeah, we were kind of following the big crowd there with Keegan in front of us.   But just tried to hang around as best I could and see if we have a chance tomorrow.

Q.   Haven't had a top 10 finish on the PGA TOUR, just outside of it.   In great position heading into tomorrow.   What are your thoughts going to be? 
ROBERT STREB:   Just try to chase down whoever is in front of me and see how it goes.

Q.   So what was working for you today? 
ROBERT STREB:   I hit it pretty well.   Hit some close early and didn't make the putts, then I made a couple of longish putts.   I felt like I hit it good.   I had a lot of chances.   Hopefully tomorrow it's the same way.

Q.   What are you thinking about for tomorrow? 
ROBERT STREB:   I'm just trying to Chase down whoever is in front of me and do the best I can.

Q.   Talk about your run this weekend?   What has this been like for you so far? 
ROBERT STREB:   It's been fun.   I'm actually in the mix for a change.   So we'll try to see how we do.   Just trying to plug along, keep going as we've been going, and see if we can make some birdies tomorrow.

Q.   What do you feel like has been key for you here?   It just seems like‑‑ I mean, obviously, you came in as an unknown commodity here, and you're obviously making a nice run. 
ROBERT STREB:   Yeah, starts have been a little sparse this year, but I feel like I've been playing well.   Finally kind of stringing most of it together, and see if we can have a good one tomorrow.

Q.   What has the season been like for you? 
ROBERT STREB:   Playing about once a month, so trying to do the best I can with the starts I have.   Obviously, if I play well tomorrow I can create another start.   Just trying to be as patient as possible and play when I have the chance.

Q.   What has been the key here?   What have you been doing around here that's worked for you? 
ROBERT STREB:   I feel like I've been hitting it pretty well, getting a lot of chances.   I've made a fair amount of 15‑footers, which has been nice.   My putter has been a little better than it has been.   So a good putter never hurts.

Q.   How do you approach tomorrow? 
ROBERT STREB:   Try to do like I've been doing it, same old thing.   Just get in and go play.

Q.   What would it be to get a top 10 finish on Tour? 
ROBERT STREB:   It would be nice.   It would be a lot better to win.   It would be fun.   We'll see how it goes.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT