BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 27, 2019
Robert Streb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  In at plus 25 through two rounds.  Looks like you're probably going to lead.  Just some thoughts on today's round.  Unfortunate finish there on 18.  Looks like a lot of good play in there.  
ROBERT STREB: Hit a bad tee ball there.  But I played really well.  Got a funny little break on No. 8.  Wedge shot landed on Lingmerth's ball, went backward 40 feet, 3-pointed.  Other than that played really good, made some putts and it was nice.   
 Q.  Ever see something like that happen before?  
ROBERT STREB: I didn't even see it.  Glad somebody did.  They saw it.  It was up by the green.  But it was one of those weird things.  Could have been worse, could have gone a lot worse places.  Played well.  The course is obviously very soft but hopefully keep it going this afternoon.   
 Q.  What's it been like the last couple of days with the delays and the adjustments?  
ROBERT STREB: I'm not sure I'd ever seen a cloud here.  So it was -- this week's been a little different.  The wind hasn't got up either.  So that part's made it nice.  The fairway being a little soft is a challenge but still in really good shape.   
 Q.  What will you do, looks like you've got about four, five hours before you play again, what will you do in that period of time?  Stay here?  Go back?  
ROBERT STREB: Hotel is only 15 minutes.  Probably run down there, put my feet up a little while, come back this afternoon, get going.   
 Q.  What's been working for you this season?  Gotten to this point here, and what have you been doing well?  
ROBERT STREB: Got off to a nice start.  Went through a pretty rough patch there but it's been getting better.  Hit the ball quite a bit better and then obviously was holing some putts the last couple of days.  So hopefully keep giving myself chances, make a few.   
 Q.  You've got a decent record here, made three cuts out of three starts, four now?  
ROBERT STREB: I like it here.   
 Q.  What do you like about this format and the venue?  
ROBERT STREB: The format is kind of fun because the worse possible thing you can do is go minus 3 and head into the next hole you put it behind you.  But you can make a few bogeys and a few birdies and you're still ahead at 0.  That part is kind of fun.  And I don't know a cool little track.   
 Q.  Kind of nerve-racking sitting around and coming out here today?  
ROBERT STREB: No, I was happy to get out of here.  We've been sitting in there so long I was happy to go get dinner and go to bed.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT