SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 2, 2018
Robert Streb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Robert, 11s are good on the craps table; 11-under par is goo through two rounds here, too.  
ROBERT STREB: Yeah.  Don't know much about craps, but you hear it's good.   
 Q.  The play looked very solid.  Bogey-free today.  Your thoughts?  
ROBERT STREB: Yeah, played really well.  Missed a couple of short birdie putts in the middle, but other than that played really well.   
 Q.  And looking to the weekend?  
ROBERT STREB: Just try to keep after it.   
 Q.  Clearly you're in a good space through two rounds.  What's it going to take, do you think?  Just more of the same or...  
ROBERT STREB: Yeah, probably some of the same.  I think the wind is supposed to blow tomorrow, but it's kind of one of those places you just have to keep after it.  Everybody is making birdies here, and just got to try to keep going.   
 Q.  Foot down then tomorrow?  
ROBERT STREB: Pretty much.  If possible.   
 Q.  Was there a number you were looking at or just a matter of just got to go out and fire away and try and make as many birdies as you can?  
ROBERT STREB: Yeah.  Unfortunately I missed a couple short ones, but, yea, you're just trying give yourself as many chances as you can.  Obviously our wave got a really nice draw.   
Yeah, keep giving yourself chances and hope you make a few.   
 Q.  Your approach with the Web.com Tour playoffs, how have you maintained that approach to here?  
ROBERT STREB: Just I feel like I'm actually going the right way now, so just trying to keep improving little by little and usually the results will follow.   
 Q.  Is the wind really the only defense for this course here?  
ROBERT STREB: Yeah.  I'm not sure this course was meant to be super difficult.  The wind can make it tough.  When they fixed the bunkers they made some of the fairways wider, so that's been pretty helpful.   
 Q.  Green speeds are pretty much standard for the tour?  
ROBERT STREB: Yeah, they're nice.  They're good greens, which is probably why you're seeing lots of birdies.   
 Q.  Reset your goals for this season?  Are you a write-them-down type of guy?  Any specifics?  
ROBERT STREB: Not really.  I've tried that before and didn't really go over that well.  Just trying to plug away, trying to improve, and so far seems to be going all right.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT