BARBASOL CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2018
Robert Streb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Robert, 9-under par, 63 today.  Excellent round of golf.  Just get some comments on your day.  
ROBERT STREB: Yeah, maybe wasn't perfect off the tee, but had a lot of chances, made a lot of putts.   
Obviously a lot of the other guys did, too, but happy to keep pace and have a chance tomorrow.   
 Q.  Bogey-free today.  That's always a good sign.  
ROBERT STREB: Yeah.   
 Q.  You're currently one ahead.  I know we've still got a few holes left for a couple of these guys out there, but just your thoughts on tomorrow's final round.  
ROBERT STREB: We'll see what the weather has in store.  Probably going to have to make a bunch of birdies like today.   
 Q.  Back to today's round, what in particular is working so well in your game right now?  
ROBERT STREB: I had quite a few looks at it; obviously capitalized on a lot of them today.  Hopefully the putter stays warmed up.   
 Q.  Yeah, birdie-birdie finish.  Talk a little bit about 17 and 18 and closing out the round that way.  
ROBERT STREB: 17 hit the drive down there and tried to get a 3-wood up by the green.  Hit my bunker shot close, so not a whole lot sweat there.   
Then 18 hit a good iron to, I don't know what it was, 20 feet left of the hole, and happened to make it.   
 Q.  Excellent round.  Just get some comments.  
ROBERT STREB: Yeah, sure.  Just tried to keep pace today.  Obviously the scores were very low.  Get to place the ball and then the greens are holding and rolling pretty well.   
So everybody is making a bunch of birdies, and I was just trying to keep up and have a chance tomorrow.   
 Q.  Looks like there are ten or twelve guys going to be within two or three strokes of the lead tomorrow.  Just your thoughts on what that does for a Sunday round.  
ROBERT STREB: Probably a fan's paradise.  Everybody is going to have a chance at it.  Probably come down to who is hitting them close and making the putts.   
 Q.  Not a golfer's paradise?  
ROBERT STREB: Yeah, sure.  I would love to have a six-shot lead or something.  It's great to have a chance.  We'll see how it goes tomorrow.   
 Q.  Surprised by what the course has given up given the weather?  
ROBERT STREB: Yeah, I was a little surprised the scores were as low as they were.  There was a little breeze this afternoon and everything, but obviously it was out there; bunch of guys did it.   
See what tomorrow is like.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT