THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 9, 2017
Robert Streb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You fought right down to the very last shot, didn't you?
ROBERT STREB: Yeah, it was a good week.  I'm a little disappointed there with obviously my drive on 14 and not a very good effort -- I guess it was 13 -- and not a very good effort on 16 and 17, trying to make birdie there.  So a little frustrating.  But Xander obviously hit a great shot there on the last hole.
Q. The good news?  The Open Championship.  What does that mean to you?  How excited to be a part of that tournament?
ROBERT STREB: My in-laws got to bring some winter clothing next week.  But always a great place to go, it's always great to play in a Major, so it's very helpful.
Q. Tied for the lead down the stretch.  Take me through the last few holes.
ROBERT STREB: Didn't hit my best wedge on 16 and obviously left a putt short, a really good look at it.  And kind of squandered the up-and-down there on 17.  I was trying to hit it close on 18 and just didn't do it.  So it was a little disappointing.  Obviously Xander hit a great shot there on 18, but a little disappointed in my effort on 16 and 17.
Q. With the season that you've had so far, how rewarding was it to come together this week?
ROBERT STREB: It was good.  It was nice to have a good week.  Obviously wanted to win today, but it's nice to have a good week, a big weight off the shoulders, and now I get to play at the Open Championship, so that's good, too.
Q. What's the biggest takeaway from the week?
ROBERT STREB: Finally got some results out of the good play, obviously really good results.  But kind of got the putter going a little bit again and everything seems to be turning the right way.
Q. (No Microphone.)
ROBERT STREB: I was pretty young when I first got out here, 25, that's almost average now.  So, it's a lot of young guys, obviously I'm sure Tiger and Phil had a lot to do with that, but, yeah, you got a lot of young guns and they all hit it a long way, to it's changing a little bit.
Q. (No Microphone.)
ROBERT STREB: Yeah, I figured somebody would start stringing some birdies together out there, but, yeah, it's tough down the stretch, too.  You aim at a couple flags and you miss it, you can get in a lot of trouble.  So it was -- I had my chances and just didn't do very well with them.
Q. You've done very well here.
ROBERT STREB: Yeah, this place has been very good to me.  It's nice to come back and it's always a good place to play.
Q. (No Microphone.)
ROBERT STREB: Yeah, I made a nice putt on the next hole and just kind of squandered 16 and 17 a little bit.  Left it short on 16 and had a relatively simple up-and-down.
On 17 I didn't convert.  So that was a little frustrating.  But Xander hit a great shot on 18 as well.
Q. (No Microphone.)
ROBERT STREB: Yeah, that was really helpful.  Obviously I was on the wrong side of the number, but it's funny, one week can change it.
Q. You're obviously going to The Open Championship as well.  So you got to think about that.
ROBERT STREB: Yeah, it's always good to get to play in another Major.
Q. Did you happen to glance over and see Xander's shot on 18?
ROBERT STREB: Oh, yeah.  I heard the racket.  You can see it.  You can probably figure it out pretty quick, it's pretty easy to see over there.
I knew I needed to get up-and-down on 17, but obviously didn't pull it off.  And then had to aim at it at 18 and didn't quite hit the right shot.
Q. Talk about how they were able to get this course back to where it was from a year ago.
ROBERT STREB: Yeah, unbelievable how much sod they put down and everything.  Obviously tweaked the design a little bit, but overall, unbelievable compared to what it looked like from a year ago.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT