NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 17, 2017
Karl-Anthony Towns
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Second year in a row, how is it the second time around?  Do you feel like you're established in the league?  
KARL-ANTHONY TOWNS: It feels different.  Still have that same feeling when I realize how much I've accomplished and how far I've come in my career.  Just a little different. I feel like I know what's going to happen.  This is an awesome game, play and get it done.  Fortunate enough to win last year.  It's an awesome experience.  Happy to be here.   
 Q.  What do you think has been the turning point for the Timberwolves?  Has it been more of a defensive chemistry and gelling on that end of the floor?  
KARL-ANTHONY TOWNS: I think it's just more of us just doing what we need to do, finding leads and finding ways to hold them.  We've been able to find different ways to win.  Just keep finding ways to win games.   
 Q.  Are you disappointed to not being playing on Sunday?  
KARL-ANTHONY TOWNS: I'm blessed with the opportunity to be here this weekend.  My time is coming.  I just got to keep working hard.   
 Q.  What do you think you have to work on?  
KARL-ANTHONY TOWNS: I think I've got to work on everything.  Be a more complete player.  I've got to continue to work in every single aspect, shooting, defense.  I need to be a better leader.  It takes everything to win championships.  I need to become the most complete player I possibly can be to win championships.   
 Q.  How hard is it staying with that process of trying to be better but also trying to win?  
KARL-ANTHONY TOWNS: Yeah, it's a process.  You find different ways, while experience gives you that.  We've done a great job of just finding different ways to win.  The process, you start realizing different ways, each other's tendencies and strengths and different places they like to lead.  It just comes with experience.  We just need time with each other.  Rome wasn't built in one way.  The San Antonio Spurs weren't built in one day.  We're going through that process right now, and we're very confident.   
 Q.  As a youngster, you want to prove yourself.  You want to do something.  But sometimes you're limited because of minutes.  
KARL-ANTHONY TOWNS: You know what, for us, it's not about individual stats, it's not about individual accolades.  It's what we do as a team.  Team success always conquers individual success.  That's what we always say.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT