NBA RISING STARS 2017
February 17, 2017
Karl-Anthony Towns
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








World Team - 150
U.S. Team - 141
Q. Can you talk about how it is to play in a game like this where having fun is more important than the result itself?  And when did the will to win kick in for you guys?
KARL-ANTHONY TOWNS: I think for us at about 12 minutes left in the second half.  We wanted to really win.  We came out in the second half with a different mindset, little bit just to get the game close.  But we wanted to take over.  We got a great lead.
Jamal Murray hit some great shots.  When you have a person hitting threes like that from anywhere, they can get back in the game very quickly.
Q. Quick followup.  Can you talk about the fun of a game like this.
KARL-ANTHONY TOWNS: The game is amazingly fun.  You get a chance to be in front of the fans and have a chance to do a little more athletic moves and more All-Star game moves.  It was a lot of fun.  I had a blast.  For me being my last Rising Star, I'm glad that I was able to enjoy this moment.
Q. Karl, can you just talk about the experience this year compared to last year.  Last year obviously was Zach and Andrew, and this year by yourself.
KARL-ANTHONY TOWNS: It was different, obviously, not having Zach and Andrew.  They're like my brothers, missing them.  I just went out there and tried to put on as best as possible for the Timberwolves and the organization.  Hopefully, I think I represented them well.
Q. You just commented on this is your last Rising Stars game.  How much are you looking forward to becoming an All-Star in the years to come?
KARL-ANTHONY TOWNS: I mean, I'm looking forward to the wins.  For you to be an All-Star, you have to be a successful team.  For me, I'm looking forward to those wins, being able to contribute as much as possible to the team's success and having success as a team.  That's what's going to bring me real joy.
Q. Karl, how's it feel to be removed from Kentucky, removed from high school, and the journey so far that you've had in the NBA?
KARL-ANTHONY TOWNS: I mean, it's mind boggling for a person like me in my neighborhood to come out and be an NBA player.  So I'm truly blessed with the opportunity.  This is my second All-Star experience, and every single time, you know, last year and this year, driving into the hotel off the flight, you just realize how far you truly have come in your career.
To be at All-Star weekend, it's not long ago I was watching All-Star weekend on TV, and it's mind boggling to think that at this moment I'm talking to you guys at All-Star weekend, just having played in an event.  I've been truly blessed in my life to have this experience, to have this opportunity, and I want to make the most of it.
Q. How did the Players Union Camp assist you in that development?
KARL-ANTHONY TOWNS: It did.  Just to have the experience, playing against you and just learning from NBA players.  Andre Miller, who was a teammate of mine last year.  Just learning a little more IQ of the game.  So many different things you do in the NBA that you don't do in any other part of your career, in high school and college.  So that's why we're the best basketball players in the world because there's so much more than just athleticism and the shooting ability.  There's an IQ level that you have to match as well.
Q. With your family came also from Dominican Republic, you also represent the people.  How is your fans from Dominica treat you with the two years you have in the NBA?
KARL-ANTHONY TOWNS: I mean, they treat me tremendously well.  Last year, June 25th, I mean, it felt more than just a glory day for my family.  It felt for all of Dominican Republic and where I live, to have that opportunity to say that I'm an NBA player.  They've treated me tremendously well.  Through my high school years, giving me that experience that I needed to be ahead of the learning curve and also just having great coaches and coaching staff has taken me to another level when I was in high school.  It allowed me to expedite my career and my IQ.
So I have a lot to thank the Dominican team for giving me that opportunity.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT