NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2016
Karl-Anthony Towns
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. They said a big man couldn't do it.  How do you feel?
KARL-ANTHONY TOWNS: I like proving people wrong, so I'm glad I was able to make a lot of people wrong.  I was able to make critics wrong, Vegas wrong, Ricky Rubio wrong.  So I'm just so ecstatic right now.
I'm just praying that I can see Zach [LaVine] finish out the weekend for the Timberwolves.
Q. They brought you big guys into it because of where the game is going and how much more versatile you guys are.  But do you really think you guys all showed that a little bit tonight?
KARL-ANTHONY TOWNS: I think we did.  I think we did.  The bigs were amazing today, and we were able to just come out with a W, and I'm glad I was able to help the bigs come out with this trophy.  This is bigger than me.  This is for all the bigs out there, with the game changing the way it is, to show that bigs can stand up with guards and skillwise.
Q. What's it going to be like?  I mean, Zach already won the MVP.  He's going to go for the Dunk Contest tonight.  Do you think you guys, [Andrew] Wiggins had a big game last night, has the Timberwolves being here shown that the future is bright for you guys?
KARL-ANTHONY TOWNS: It is, it is.  It's amazingly bright.  We've got some of the best future talent in the world.  For us to be together on the same team is a blessing, and something that no one could have thought could happen.
Q. Is there an aspect about the Challenge that you were nervous about going into?
KARL-ANTHONY TOWNS: Oh, absolutely.  My heart was coming out my chest.  I'm usually never nervous of anything.  But you know, I just went out there.
It's funny, the one thing I remember right before I got nervous was [Kevin Garnett] teaching just to breathe.  He taught me how to breathe a certain way.  While I was nervous, I was a lot less nervous because of that breathing technique he taught me.  I just went out there and tried to do my best.
Q. You didn't practice much of the competition itself, right, before you did it?
KARL-ANTHONY TOWNS: Oh, I came in today at I think it was 11:00 in the morning and got a practice run, but it doesn't translate to what it is when you have millions of people watching, thousands of people in the stands and also your heart racing like mine was.  So just to have that instance of just a feel of how it was.
Isaiah Thomas has a great feel.  He was playing in it last year, so a much better feel than all of us together.  So I was so happy to come out with a W.
Q. You had touched a moment ago about Kevin Garnett with the breathing exercises and that.  Can you talk more about some of the things he has taught you in this first year in the NBA?
KARL-ANTHONY TOWNS: I mean, just how to be a professional, how to be a professional in this game on and off the court.  Just to do my best to lead, and that's the biggest thing.  He teaches all of us how to lead, and I want to be a leader for this team.  So I'm trying to learn as many steps as I can, because you never know how many days Kevin has left to play.
Q. What's it like at the end?  You have the trophy and your other bigs come up and join you on the podium?  What was that moment like?
KARL-ANTHONY TOWNS: I mean, it's amazing.  Like I said, this moment is bigger than me.  This is a moment that hopefully the NBA can cherish for a long time to see the transition of guards and bigs only having to be on the post, but also can be outside dribbling the ball, dribble up the court and shoot threes.  So I think this moment was much bigger than myself, but it shows that bigs are translating into a new facet of their games.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT