NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 12, 2016
Karl-Anthony Towns
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. We got you sitting down with Oscar Robertson on Sunday morning.  What do you look forward to learning from Oscar Robertson?
KARL-ANTHONY TOWNS: Just asking him questions about his legacy.  Experience is so vital in this league, so to have a chance to just ask him and learn from his experiences and use it to my advantage.
Q. Did you honestly expect to play as well as you have this early in your career?  Or did you expect more of a bumpy road early on?
KARL-ANTHONY TOWNS: I always expect more from myself.  I expect more from myself.  I expect to be tighter in some areas of my game.  But it's an okay start for me to my career.  I've just got to continue to work.
Q. The last several weeks you've taken it up several notches.  What do you think has been behind that?  It's just you've been through the league for a few months now, and you're figuring things out?
KARL-ANTHONY TOWNS: I'm just finding spots.  I'm finding spots.  I have great teammates and great coaching staff that will help me succeed, so without them I don't have a chance to do what I've been able to do.  I'm finding spots that I didn't find earlier in the season I'm finding them now.
Q. Do you have the confidence to win this Skills Challenge?
KARL-ANTHONY TOWNS: I do, I do.  I think I can win.  I think I honestly can win the Skills Challenge.  I think I have a great opportunity.  I just want to go out there and have fun and compete.
Q. How are you getting used to the cold weather here?
KARL-ANTHONY TOWNS: You know what, I'm wearing a lot of jackets and coats.  Also, we live in Minnesota, and it's always extremely cold, so it's something you get used to.  Everyone's wearing jackets, but I seem to get along just fine with a hoodie.
Q. What are you looking forward to most overall this weekend?
KARL-ANTHONY TOWNS: Just fun and being able to have a chance to go play in the Skills Challenge.  I've never had the opportunity to do that, but it's the best opportunity to have a chance to do it.
Q. Do you think you're going to score today in the Rising Stars and how much?
KARL-ANTHONY TOWNS: About 55 field goals made, 120 points, and about 119.  No, I'm joking.
Q. Okay, I heard everyone has something.  You know something about it?
KARL-ANTHONY TOWNS: No, I know that the World Team has a big plan in store, and Kristaps Porzingis.  So knowing them, they have something big in store for us.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT