ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 21, 2011
Rafa Echenique
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. Completely satisfying work over two days? 
 RAFA ECHENIQUE: Yeah, absolutely. After good holidays, one month and a half, very happy. Finish today, the weather and the dark, but anyway, I'm still in position and I'm looking forward for the weekend.

 Q. Nice number of birdies in some tricky conditions?
 RAFA ECHENIQUE: Yeah, absolutely. It was tricky and rained most of the day, and I concentrated very good, especially on the greens. I'm very happy.

 Q. Did you pack any waterproofs?
 RAFA ECHENIQUE: I never expect here in Abu Dhabi, but this time, yes, I pack it because I come with my wife and I pack everything just in case.

 Q. What were your thoughts out there in some of the worst of the conditions? There were times when the rain was very heavy and umbrellas were almost sideways to shield from the rain?
 RAFA ECHENIQUE: Yeah, it's different to see this here in Abu Dhabi, but that's golf. You have to take everything on the bag and have to be prepared for everything. 

 Q. Cold, too. 
 RAFA ECHENIQUE: Yeah, a little cold, but well, I hopefully tomorrow will be better and playing in the normal conditions.

 Q. So how was your time off?
 RAFA ECHENIQUE: Very good, very good. Stayed with my family and my friends in Argentina and I'm very happy for that. And now, I prepare for this hard year, and we'll see, I'm looking forward for a good year.

 Q. For you and your countrymen, it's been a long time away from home. So presumably you try to make the most of things when you get the break. 
 RAFA ECHENIQUE: Yeah, absolutely after the break, you always try to stay with your friends and everything. But I'm very happy to stay here again. 

 Q. A good bit of downtime or a lot of work?
 RAFA ECHENIQUE: No, a lot of work, too. 

 Q. Working on what?
 RAFA ECHENIQUE: Yeah, working on short game and my driver. I have to work a lot with my driver. But I'm very happy for these two rounds.

 Q. Are you one of these players that do reach the end of the year and assess how it's gone and how you can get better for the year ahead?
 RAFA ECHENIQUE: Yeah, after the last year, you mean? Yeah, I'm looking forward to -- fourth time on European Tour and fourth time very similar, the position in the ranking. I'm looking forward to getting into The Race to Dubai this year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT