QUINN INSURANCE BRITISH MASTERS
September 25, 2008
Rafa Echenique
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Good finish, four birdies, four holes. 
 RAFA ECHENIQUE: Yeah, great finish, four birdies in the last six I think. I hit it very well from the tee today. Then I missed a couple of second shots to the green but also I played great, the short game and the putts, yeah.

 Q. What do you think of the golf course? First time here?
 RAFA ECHENIQUE: No, it's the second time. I played last year. Maybe it was a little easier this year. I hit very good from the tee today and I think it's a great golf course. It's the second year I learned too much last year. 

 Q. More comfortable?
 RAFA ECHENIQUE: More comfortable and hit a very good driver, 3-wood from the tee, putting good, and it's just the first round.

 Q. You've been playing good, though, haven't you, in terms of Omega, you had the good finish the week before that, two Top-10s in the last two?
 RAFA ECHENIQUE: Yeah, I played very good the last few weeks, but I'm looking forward for still playing like this. I'm very happy with my game. Also have to improve many things, but my coach and my caddie have helped me a lot. We'll see. 

 Q. What was the target for you for the year? What is your main goal for the year? 
 RAFA ECHENIQUE: I'm looking for the Volvo Masters. I need to play well. But I have the chance. I already secured my card for next year, and I feel more comfortable now. 

 Q. And good time to be in good form, because not only this week, but next week, there's a huge prize fund, as well. 
 RAFA ECHENIQUE: Also next week, big purse, and also great courses. I hope the weather was good. But I play also last year there, unbelievable. 

 Q. What do you need to do most here at The Belfry when you say you learned last year?
 RAFA ECHENIQUE: I learned from the tee shot, I know that you have to concentrate to get a target from the tee shots. Also, No. 10 last year, I hit with a 7-iron to the fairway and then I hit a bad shot. I made a double-bogey and hit to the water. 
 This year, I hit a 3-wood on No. 10. But we'll see tomorrow, depending on the wind and everything. But when you play many times the golf course, you learn a lot, and also on these difficult courses. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT