NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL INVITATIONAL
July 23, 2010
David Mathis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. That may end up being the best score of the day?  
 DAVID MATHIS: Yeah, I hit a lot of nice shots in quirky situations where I was in between clubs and some gusty winds. Hit some good shots and made some putts and kept it in front of me on the fairway for the most part.   
  
  Q. You can't do that today.   
 DAVID MATHIS: Yeah, for sure.  
  
  Q. This is the way it's supposed to be, right?   
 DAVID MATHIS: Yeah, exactly. Like we haven't seen this. Like yesterday it was lower than we're used to seeing. You know it was just a solid day. It's like what we were wanting to see. Firmer greens because they're obviously drying out with the wind on them, and that's what you want. It's what you want.  
  
  Q. Par is a good score all of a sudden?   
 DAVID MATHIS: Yeah, it is. On certain holes like 17, you know. Wow, it's the best pin. In the wind, it's a different deal for sure.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 DAVID MATHIS: Yeah, it is a fantastic cut. Fired it up in the wind, it landed, and I had a about a six or seven-footer, knocked it in and off to the next tee.  
  
  Q. On 18?   
 DAVID MATHIS: 18 I hit it on the first cut almost on the bunker on the right. It got kind of in between clubs. I was trying to hit it to the right and hit a soft 6-iron. I just gave myself a putt and hit it in the bunker.   
 I had like three short-sided bunker shots. Every one of them was probably 15 feet past the hole. I only made one of them. So that's where the bogies came from. But all in all I'm pleased with today.   
  
  Q. So you were off the TOUR last year, came back this year?   
 DAVID MATHIS: Yeah, finished 160th on the money list. Missed my last six cuts out there, and that really tumbled me down. I think I was probably about high 120s after Greensboro. Got to the first round of the playoffs, and just down you go, you missed cuts. It's so fast.   
  
  Q. So you were here two years ago?   
 DAVID MATHIS: Uh-huh, two years ago.   
  
  Q. And how was it?   
 DAVID MATHIS: It was like a brick. I remember being on the practice round on number 8, I couldn't hit it on the green. Didn't matter what shot I hit, I couldn't physically get it to stay on the green.   
 I was like man, if it was like that again, it would be interesting. But the early week rains softened it up. I think this makes a huge difference.  
  
  Q. Would you prefer to see it dry out a little bit?   
 DAVID MATHIS: Oh, yeah, for sure. I'd rather it be more difficult. We've had enough of the other side the last couple of weeks where it's been big fairways. Now it's narrowed up and firm. It's nice to see a different side of it.   
 I think the better shots get rewarded more so when the conditions get like this for sure. Looking forward to that.   
  
  Q. How hard is that transition from the big wide runaway fairways to these fairways?   
 DAVID MATHIS: You know, I think --  
  
  Q. Who loses at it?   
 DAVID MATHIS: Who loses at it? Obviously when the fairways are big and soft, you can get away with a lot more. Bringing the field in. It allows more people bring the field in. You heard Tiger say that a bunch.   
 Playing golf on soft, everybody has a chance to win. When it gets like a U.S. on open firm and fast, and pins get tough, then you see leaderboards with Mickelson, Woods, all of these guys seem to come to the top.   
 But for me, when the fairways are bricks, I'm still trying to hit a target. So I think you can just get away with a lot more when they're soft and bigger. You don't have to hit a premium golf shot to still score well.   
  
  Q. What is the reputation of this course on the Tour since you guys have been playing here?   
 DAVID MATHIS: It's been good. People have talked about how firm the greens have been in the past. But people recognize it's not unfair. It's a very, very fair golf course. It just requires you to hit shots that even when the greens are soft, you don't have to hit.   
 When the green is soft, you can slide in and come in from the angle, or if you get a crosswind and the greens are firm, you might have to cut it into the wind to get it to land soft and get it into a close area. We haven't seen that very often this year anyway. But that's just the weather. Stuff you can't control.  
  
  Q. It's kind of like two tours coming into the PGA TOUR says the same thing every year. You've got to golf your ball?  
 DAVID MATHIS: I think that's what we want. That's what I want personally. Some guys might or might not like that. I think it definitely helps prepare you for the next level, definitely.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible) he said last week he kept trying to keep pace with Tommy. He felt it was a little discouraging every day you're out there and you have to shoot 5 under to keep up?  
 DAVID MATHIS: It's like par's a good score here. Par last week you feel like you're losing shots. Every putt you make on an easy hole, you think, gosh, I made another par. Out here it's a lot different. Lot different.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT