ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 24, 2009
David Mathis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Last time you and I talked you were in Puerto Rico. Boy, what a contrast. Talk about the incredible round you've had the first two days here in New Orleans?  
 DAVID MATHIS: Well, you know, first last week I was disappointed I didn't get in. Then when I got home and spent some time with my teacher for a few days and the work that we put in there, I was almost glad I didn't play. Things just continued to get a little better.   
 I thought, oh, my gosh. I felt good coming in here. And on Monday I played in the Pro-Am, felt great. Hit it good. Now it's just a matter of holing putts. I hit great shots today, holed putts, and, hey, a 7 under.  
  
  Q. Talk about how difficult this golf course is for our listeners across the country?   
 DAVID MATHIS: You know, it's a good test of golf. You've got some holes that kind of give you a break. Give you plenty of room to hit it. And you can get a wedge in your hand. Then there are some holes that you've just got to hit shots.   
 You might be hitting three or 4-irons or 2-irons into par 4's. So it's got a good mix. The wind determines a lot. If you get it into the wind on the par 5's, obviously, they're a three-shot hole, for me, anyway. And you know, you've just got to hit shots and try to read the grain right, I guess.   
  
  Q. Obviously it's difficult to me if the wind evens up, is there anything over the weekend that you think is coming up?   
 DAVID MATHIS: No, the golf course is fairly dry. I can't imagine. You'd have to get something crazy for that to happen for it to get rock hard. I got to imagine with the heat and wind, they're trying to keep some water on it at night.   
 So I think it will play very similar. Whether they speed the greens up? It's hard to say. You never know what the tour might do. If they tuck some pins and move some tees back, they could make it a monster if they wanted to.  
  
  Q. Coming up on the one year anniversary of the win. In our hometown where the studios are, the BMW. Is this the weekend for you?   
 DAVID MATHIS: Hey, I kind of like that. Hey, this is my good time of year, so be it. Rock on, you know.   
  
  Q. That's right.   
 DAVID MATHIS: Yeah, I'm looking forward to the weekend. See what the Lord has for us, and go from there.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT