NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 18, 2017
Glenn Robinson III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Hi, Glenn.  Take us into that final dunk, basically, the one that gave you the victory.  
GLENN ROBINSON III: I originally planned for it just to be PG.  I knew I had to bring out something special.  We added the mascot and the cheerleader.  I really just wanted to get up high and dunk that thing hard, man.  My adrenaline was going.  It felt like I was looking at the rim.  All I knew was the crowd go crazy.  I pointed like this because, man, everybody seemed to sleep on me, didn't really think I was going to win this thing.   
We looked earlier, and someone said it was a 10 percent chance that I was going to win.  I was like, that's all right.  That's fine.   
 Q.  What were your thoughts about you and Derrick making it to the final as two of the pretty much lesser known guys in this dunk contest?  
GLENN ROBINSON III: That's what I thought it was going to be all along.  I thought I was going to have to go up against Derrick in the finals.  I've seen the things that I can do.  That guy can jump.  Sometimes this competition is tough.  It's tough to stay loose, things like that.  But, man, when your adrenaline is going, there's no other feeling.   
 Q.  Shout out to the dog pound, first of all, Glenn.  That's for your pops.  Would you think about considering that tag line of the underdog as being your nickname after something like this, your pulling off the championship like this?  
GLENN ROBINSON III: Definitely.  Right after I won it, they asked me that question, and I said that's definitely something that I -- people, man, my whole career, my whole life, I've been an underdog.  I'm okay with that.  I'm a relaxed, chill guy.  I stay out of the way.  But when it's time to shine, I think that I definitely want to come with it.   
 Q.  How does it feel to represent University of Michigan and the Indiana Pacers?  
GLENN ROBINSON III: Feels great.  Feels great.  The shoes I had today, maize and blue, Pacers colors.  I'm an Indiana kid.  To be playing for Indiana and representing the state means a lot to me, and the fans and everybody wanted to see me do great.   
 Q.  Glenn, I talked to you yesterday and I asked you, and you said the first time you dunked was in the tenth grade.  How does it feel to start dunking that late and be the NBA champion?  
GLENN ROBINSON III: It's crazy.  Like I said, I couldn't dunk until my sophomore year in high school, and now not even a decade later, I won an NBA dunk contest.  Going into this, I hadn't really practiced any trick dunks.  I hadn't really got time.  I focused on playing.  I focused on starting and playing to the best of my ability.  When they gave me this chance, it took me a week to come up with some things that nobody's ever seen in the NBA dunk contest.  It was tough.   
 Q.  How are you going to celebrate this victory?  
GLENN ROBINSON III: I don't know yet, but I know I'm not letting go of her right there.  She's following me everywhere I go.  It's Mardi Gras.  We're going to have a good time.   
 Q.  Glenn, does the mascot have a name?  And do you know the name of the dance team leader that was in the competition?  
GLENN ROBINSON III: What's her name again?  Kaleila.  Kaleila.  I've done a couple of appearances with her and everything.  She's a very nice lady.  I was glad that she was here to help me.  No, she doesn't have a name yet, but by the end of the night she will.   
 Q.  Who are your inspirations coming up as a youngster, watching the dunk contest?  And how different is it from your dad being a shooter and being known for that and then you coming out and winning the dunk contest?  
GLENN ROBINSON III: You know, Michael Jordan, everybody know that's pretty cliche, obviously one of the best to ever do it.  But I went back, and I looked at clips from Vince.  And just talking to a couple people helping me, Vince Carter did one of his best dunks first, and it kind of intimidated people.  That's what I wanted to go out and do.  I wanted to do one of my best dunks first.  Who knows if it worked?  But they missed some of their dunks, and it gave me a little more room.   
 Q.  On Friday, you did talk about wait till Saturday night.  Why were you so confident coming in?  Was it just the dunks you had practiced?  Or why did you have so much confidence?  
GLENN ROBINSON III: I mean, if I remember correctly, you asked me why did I choose to do this competition or why would I do it, I'm not really a known dunker.  I practiced.  I prepared.  I know I'm a jumper.  And like I said, I'm a guy that stays out of the way.  But when it's time to shine, that's my thing.  That's what I wanted to do.  I knew all along I had some things planned, and I just wanted to show the world.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT