NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 17, 2017
Glenn Robinson III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What are your early impressions of DeAndre Jordan in the dunk contest?  
GLENN ROBINSON: Obviously, that's one of the things he's known for.  Powerful dunker.  He's already up there, 7 feet.  It will be interesting to see what he can bring to it.   
 Q.  Is it crazy to see guys with that kind of athleticism?  
GLENN ROBINSON: It is.  You don't see that often.  Him being a 7-footer the way he is and having that type of athleticism, I'll be interested to see the type of stuff he can pull off.   
 Q.  Have you been working on some stuff for this?  
GLENN ROBINSON: I've been working on some stuff.  I just pray it's not something the fans have seen before in a dunk contest.   
 Q.  Were you able to watch your alma mater last night?  
GLENN ROBINSON: I didn't get a chance.  We had a game, and then I was on a flight.  But I'm always rooting for them.   
 Q.  They won.  
GLENN ROBINSON: Yeah.   
 Q.  Did you read about it or see a box score?  
GLENN ROBINSON: No.   
 Q.  They beat Wisconsin.  
GLENN ROBINSON: That's big for them.  Got a Michigan guy behind you right there.   
 Q.  What did [Michigan coach John] Beilein do for you?  
GLENN ROBINSON: He helped me get to this point, helped me get to this level.  Without my teammates and without him, I wouldn't be here right now.  He really helped me develop my game.   
 Q.  What are your memories of your dad playing?  
GLENN ROBINSON: A little story I remember.  When he played with the Bucks, it was him, Sam Cassell, Ray Allen, they had their own little Big Three going.  I practiced with them actually.  I kept running on the court.  Every time they practiced, I kept running on the court when my dad brought me to practice.   
 Q.  How old were you?  
GLENN ROBINSON: I don't remember.  I was young.  They kept kicking me off the court when they were trying to play.  My dad used to take me to games.  It was definitely experience at a young age.   
 Q.  Difference between his game and your game?  
GLENN ROBINSON: I think he was more of -- first of all, he couldn't play no defense.  I'll say you that right now.  I talked to him.  He was a scorer. I think I have an overall game.  Both sides of the court is something I really take pride in.   
 Q.  Glenn obviously Paul has done this a few times. Has he been kind of like a coach for you?  
GLENN ROBINSON: Yeah, we talked.  I kind of got his take on things.  Kind of seeing -- talked to him about what he did, what he thought he could have done better, hyping the crowd up.  Little things like that, he's really helped me.   
 Q.  I know you reached out to the fans for some suggestions.  Anything good from them?  
GLENN ROBINSON: I got a few suggestions.  It was really to get the fans involved really.  I kind of knew what I was going to do, but it's interesting to hear what fans come up with.   
 Q.  Have you been working on anything in particular, or have you been working with anyone in particular to prepare for this dunk contest?  
GLENN ROBINSON: Yes and no.  I can't tell you all my secrets.  I will say that I'm going to put on a show, and I'm going to show the fans something they haven't seen before in an NBA dunk contest.   
 Q.  In terms of in-game dunks, are you the type of dude that plans before he jumps what he's going to do, or do you just plan things on the fly?  Just you have that much time in the air and you figure it out there?  
GLENN ROBINSON: A little bit of both.  I say like, when you start to plan stuff, when you're dribbling, that's when guys lose the ball.  Everyone has seen Sam Dekker when he fell on his face.   
 Q.  That's not good.  
GLENN ROBINSON: I think that might happen.  I try to be like you.  I notice when you go up for the dunk, you don't really think about it.  You've got so much hang time.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT