THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 24, 2014
Andrew Oldcorn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Happy as you ought to be after a round like that?  
ANDREW OLDCORN:   Very much so.   Any time you shoot under par on a golf course as tough as that in a major championship, definitely.   Couldn't be more happier to be honest with you.   
   
 Q.   Tell me how tough it is then, because the sun is shining and it's wonderful blue skies?  
ANDREW OLDCORN:   Exactly.   You can only imagine how difficult this would be if the weather was bad, because you know, I've obviously been in a fortunate position, played an awful lot of links golf from my youth all the way through my career but that's as fiery a golf course as I've ever played.   
It is so difficult to keep the ball on the right parts of the fairways.   All I tried to do after that was just aim for the middle of greens and get as close to the pin as possible.   There are two or three holes out there that are virtually unplayable.   15, the par3, the direction of the wind, just keeping it on the green there, that's success.  
Overall, I think the experience I have of playing this golf course twice in the last maybe four or five years on our Senior Tour, it held me in good stead today because I knew a lot of places where not to go and where to go and what to do and what not to do.   I managed to do that on the whole pretty successfully.  
   
 Q.   So you do have a good appreciation, a good respect for Royal Porthcawl?   
ANDREW OLDCORN:   Immense.   It's a definite Open Championship course in my view.   I know Tom Watson has already said that this week and maybe we're being guinea pigs this week and trying out the whole thing.   I didn't play Hoylake last week and he did, and it was interesting to see him and one or two others there that week and playing this week notably say this is a harder test, and I think it is the way it's playing.  
The fairways last week at Hoylake looked pretty lush, whereas here, you really have to be very careful just to stay on the fairways.   
   
 Q.   Presume your score is going to stand the test of time?  
ANDREW OLDCORN:   I don't know.   What I would say is that even from the very start today, the wind has stayed constant.   It has not got up and has not dropped.   From the off it was bouncy.   There was no moisture in the greens.   I think it will be pretty much the same for everybody throughout the day.   
Obviously the greens will maybe crust up a little bit this afternoon so I think the organizers are going to have to play a bit cagey here, given the forecast.   They are definitely going to have to syringe the greens more because they are coming hard to hold, definitely.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT