SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 29, 2010
Andrew Oldcorn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. First off, great round today. Why don't you -- what are some of the factors that led to your success out there?  
 ANDREW OLDCORN: I think today really I was totally relaxed in my mind. I was pretentious today, you know, coming all the way over from Europe, to go home and not make the cut would be disappointing.   
 It was a tough day the first day, with the wind. And I struggled a bit yesterday. But I was just so relaxed out there this morning. I played fantastic and, really, to shoot 67, I'm pretty disappointed because I putted so poorly.   
 I had too many putts out there. I had a double, a bogey at 15, which really is playing like a par-4 for us, so that's almost like two bogeys out there for us and still had a 67.   
 So I would have taken it, obviously, before I went out. But considering how I played and I hit the ball at the pin all day, it should have been a lot lower.   
  
  Q. Why don't you run us through that eagle at 7.   
 ANDREW OLDCORN: I hit an awesome 3-wood there. We decided to have a go at it today. Had it been in the first two rounds, I probably would have laid up. But we thought that I started doing well and I was swinging well, so that 3-wood I hit it to about two foot. Yeah. Those are the eagle putts you like.   
  
  Q. How did the holes set up out there?  
 ANDREW OLDCORN: It's pretty similar, up until today, up until the last three holes, where the wind just did a total switch, 180 degrees switch. And 17 and 18, 17 is just ridiculously difficult. And 18 today I hit a driver and a rescue club up there. The other day I hit 7-iron. So that just shows you the factor that the wind can play.   
 There was some difficult pins out there today. I didn't really notice it because I was shooting so good. But I think it's showing in the fact that nobody's going ahead and that the course is still holding its own.   
  
  Q. What's your overall mindset going into tomorrow?  
 ANDREW OLDCORN: I just hope I can still adopt the same mindset I had today. I need to be relaxed and I know I'm playing well. I'll work on my putting a little bit after lunch today and then try to find something that will help me out there.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT