VOLVO PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2002
Andrew Oldcorn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 ANDREW OLDCORN: I was always going to be all right.  I was a little better this morning, a lot better.  I got a rollicking from the wife this morning to stop moaning about things.  So you know, told me to get on with it.  She was in a much more torturous position last week, so that put things in perspective.  Yeah, she shouted down the phone to me.

Q.   Last night?
ANDREW OLDCORN: No, this morning.  So, no.  I was -- what I managed to do the first 10 or 12 holes was to pretty much what I haven't done the last six, seven weeks, which was focus much better on what I was trying to do.  Obviously, the fact that it was here, I think that made it a lot easier for me to do it.  I was really pleased who I was drawn with because they are both totally unflappable characters and that definitely helped me to stay a bit calmer, I think, regardless of how they were playing.  They are just good to be around on the golf course. 
So I wasn't hitting great, but I was just hitting it straight -ish.   I putted a bit better.  That got me into a really good sort of frame of mind.  And I don't really know what happened on the 12th.  I had a good tee shot, and it was 236 to the pin, and it was into the wind off the left; so I felt I can get a 2-iron up there, but I will just try and hit an easy 3-wood.  It came out of the screws and so low that it just went through the wind, and one bounce and it was out-of-bounds, although it was only actually out of bounds about two inches by the time I got up there.  I actually hit a really good 2-iron up to the green where my second ball was, so I made a real good 6.  But the fact that I birdied the next, that was good stuff.  That helped my perspective to come back again. 
6-iron to about eight foot.  Retief had just holed from exactly the same lane as me but just a foot further away so that was some help.  But I just played the last three holes especially really scrappily, you know.  I think maybe just a wee bit tightness crept in, but I had poor shots in the last three.  So in that respect I am a bit disappointed that I didn't shoot that in 4, but I would have taken 4 at the beginning of the day.

Q.   You probably had to watch the weather today.
ANDREW OLDCORN: We didn't get wet, which is a bonus.  But it was certainly  -- it was gustier, it was gusty  and that made club selection quite tricky.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
ANDREW OLDCORN: I dropped it.  Again I was just a club too short on the last one.  But overall very happy, but had I got to 4 under at the middle of the 12th fairway,  --

Q.   (Inaudible)?
ANDREW OLDCORN: No, they weren't.  6 at 12 and two fives at the last one from the middle of the fairway, it wasn't good.  Balances out. 

Q.   (Inaudible)?
ANDREW OLDCORN: No, doctor gave me some stuff when I got here Tuesday night.  That seems to have helped. 

Q.   It's good to get that one under your belt.  I got the feel yesterday you were a bit edgy...
ANDREW OLDCORN: I have been tense for about a month now.  And it's purely because I knew this was approachable.  And it was like I needed to get on this golf course to play again and you know, everybody around me has just been, you know, had to dive for cover at times, you know, (laughs) but a lot of things going on.  We've moved house in the last six weeks, had a new baby, and I have been worrying about this tournament.   



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT