VOLVO PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2001
Andrew Oldcorn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ANDREW OLDCORN:   Yeah.  Very pleased with the way I went about things today.  I thought about how I wanted to approach the day, and I wanted to go through my routine over each shot, and after a bad shot or a good shot, just stick to that routine.  All in all, I was really pleased with the way I played.  A lot of solid shots.  A couple of mental mistakes, which is going to happen.  Putter was working on the front nine, especially.  So, I was pleased with the day went.

ANDREW OLDCORN:   What happened at the 10th, I hit a good shot there and I was unlucky in my mind.  So the fact that I took a double, I just had to take that on the chin and rise above it and carry on; so I knew I hit a good shot.  I didn't get too down on myself.  Blackie told me not to get too down.  Still leading the golf tournament at the end of the day, so, it's not too disappointing. But I really only made two or three mistakes all day.  I handled a lot of it good, and I was pleased. 

ANDREW OLDCORN:   A nice statistic, but I'll just try to approach tomorrow the same way I approached today.  Just imagine I'm a short margin in front.  Only thing I mustn't do is think of what winning would mean to me.  I did that very well today.  I didn't think about that at all.  I know it's going to be more difficult for me tomorrow, and I'm not naive enough to think that that's going to be the case.  I'm reasonably confident that if I can maintain the same equilibrium that I had today, I will have a chance.

Q.  Do you feel that it is yours to lose now rather than for the others to win? 

ANDREW OLDCORN:   That sounds more for you to say than for me to say.  I mean, I was halfway around the back nine and I saw there was some pretty Thoroughbred horses came on the leaderboard.  All I thought then was:  "Look, I need to get two or three more, try and stretch my lead."  You know, the reality is that anybody who has a five-shot lead going into the final round of a golf tournament, I suppose it's theirs to lose.  But bigger names than me have lost bigger leads than this in bigger championships than this.  All that sits with me is the fact that I've got a job to do tomorrow.  If I do what I can do, I can only do as much as that.  If it's enough to win, it's enough to win.  If it's not, well, I've given it my best shot.  I won't be scared.  I'm looking forward to it.  I enjoyed today. 

Q.  Is there a sports guy that you see?

ANDREW OLDCORN:   No.  I don't see anybody at the moment.  I did do.  I saw Paul Lawrie's man, Richard Cox for a while, but I haven't seen anybody for a while now, no. 

Q.  Why are you better not seeing anybody somebody?

ANDREW OLDCORN:   There's no reason I'm not doing it.  It's just  -- I just can't think of a significant reason why I'm not doing it.  I still think a lot of what Dr.  Cox taught me, and I've used it and I've used it the last two or three days.  You don't forget.  I can go and see him for refreshers, or if you're struggling with certain situations maybe.  But, he's so good that, you know, I've kept a note of what he always taught me, both mentally and in the literal sense.

Q.  What are you doing a lot better in this week in your game? 

ANDREW OLDCORN:   I think the big thing is I'm holing the putts at the right time.  Anybody who is leading golf tournaments is putting well, and I am at the moment, at the right time.  I think I'm coping with myself well.  Just got to try and do it for another day.

Q.  You seem to be getting a lot of help from your caddy.  He would seem to be, very positive  --

ANDREW OLDCORN:   I have to  -- at the risk of reading about it in the morning, I don't want to raise his hopes up too highly, but he's been very good.  Very good. That's all I'll say.  You know, I mean, I think a lot of people may be expected me to blow up today.  Sorry I've disappointed a few of them, but I was keen to do well and keen to do well again tomorrow. 

Q.  Does that make you feel good about yourself; that you didn't do what other people thought you might do?

ANDREW OLDCORN:   I achieved what I wanted to achieve today, which was to shoot a score under par.  You know, I maintained my good focus, my temperament very well today.  I had a lot of good encouragement from Blackie on the bag.  I made mistakes, but I didn't let them affect me. 

Q.  Are you a confident person, and what do you mean by saying that, "I coped with myself well today"?  Are the two connected? 

ANDREW OLDCORN:  I just touched on that possibly.  You know, maybe last night  -- I think sometimes I'm my own worst enemy in situations; getting in front of myself almost.  It's not an easy task to learn.  I've been at this for a long, long time, and, you know, I'll probably never ever master it, but I suppose I'm getting a bit better at it, and today, I was good at it.

Q.  Are you a confident person? 

ANDREW OLDCORN:   I would say I am, yeah.  More people that know me say I'm outgoing, gregarious, not much gets to me.  The only other thing I would say is that if I don't win tomorrow, I hope Bolton does.

Q.  Why?

ANDREW OLDCORN:   Hometown team.  Born there.  It would be a nice double. 

Q.  Do you mind us asking to where you are off to in such a hurry? 

ANDREW OLDCORN:   I'm not off anywhere in a hurry. 

Q.  I thought you said he was in a hurry, Scott, to get away?


Q.  What is the plan tonight? 

ANDREW OLDCORN:   Same as the last four nights.  A few beers, dinner a bit of telly, sleep. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)

ANDREW OLDCORN:   I don't think there's any specific reason for that.  I had to pull out of the B&H; had a tooth infection.  Had to miss Morocco for quite an obvious and serious reason; Max, (Allan Maxwell), my manager, died.  That was not a good time.  No, no particular reason, other than the fact that as I said yesterday, I don't want to take on the long haul stuff at the beginning of the year, and I've missed two or three tournaments out of my schedule since then that I had not wanted to.  So, I am a likely-ran. 

Q.  What is your best position, best finish in this tournament before up to now?

ANDREW OLDCORN:   You would have to tell me.  I know I've had a couple  -- two or three Top-20s here before.  I must have played this tournament  -- I don't think I've ever missed one since  -- well, the two years I was ill, I've obviously missed, but since, I've probably played a dozen, 13 or 14 times.

Q.  Do you sit where you thought you would regularly when you turned pro?

ANDREW OLDCORN:   In this seat?  Yeah.  Definitely.  Not enough. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT