PORTLAND CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CAMBIA HEALTH SOLUTIONS
August 28, 2014
Amelia Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   All right.   Run me through the 66.  
AMELIA LEWIS:   No bogeys today, so that makes it a little easier.   Hit a lot of greens.   When I made some mistakes, I got up‑and‑down and just recovered really nicely and pretty smooth day.  
   
 Q.   How bad did you want that last one?  
AMELIA LEWIS:   Really, really bad.   It was close, too.   I just had to hit it a little bit harder, but three more days.  
   
 Q.   How good is it to come out here and start like this?  
AMELIA LEWIS:   It's important for sure.   Makes the next couple of days a little easier, get a head start, and you realize the course has a lot of birdie opportunities, so it's going to be available the next couple days.  
   
 Q.   You started the year out on kind of a boom, then went through a little slide and it looks like you're kind of getting it back now.   Is that accurate?  
AMELIA LEWIS:   Yeah.   I started really well, had a Top 10 in Australia, and was working on my swing a little bit and tweaking a few things and now it's coming back and it's working out.   So it's going to be a good end of the year.  
   
 Q.   What were you working on?  
AMELIA LEWIS:   Just getting to a good position in my swing, trying to get more distance and better posture.  
   
 Q.   What's the key out there as far as scoring goes?  
AMELIA LEWIS:   Make your putts.   I mean the greens are pretty easy to hit, and they are very fast, and just get the speed, actually line with the speed and it's easy.  
   
 Q.   Some of those fairways are pretty tight out there, though, aren't they?  
AMELIA LEWIS:   They are, yeah, but the rough isn't too bad and the bunkers aren't too bad either.   I missed a few fairways today, but you can still get birdies.  
   
 Q.   Pretty manageable?  
AMELIA LEWIS:   Yeah.   Definitely.  
   
 Q.   What's the number going to take here, do you think, after playing today?  
AMELIA LEWIS:   To win.  
   
 Q.   Suzann was at 20 last year.   Is that attainable again?  
AMELIA LEWIS:   Oh, yeah.   Oh, yeah, for sure.   Maybe a little deeper, but 20 is probably around the number.  
   
 Q.   So you're thinking to win this thing it might take three or four rounds like today?  
AMELIA LEWIS:   Yeah.   The course is really nice.   I would say about 21.  
   
 Q.   That would be your estimate?  
AMELIA LEWIS:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Perfect.   What's the strategy for tomorrow?  
AMELIA LEWIS:   Do the same thing, just be patient, have fun and get some birdies.  
   
 Q.   How big is this week going into the Asian events?   You could potentially get into the Asian events if you have a good week here.   Is that something y'all think about coming into this week?  
AMELIA LEWIS:   I mean yeah, I mean I'm in a good position right now.   I'm in most of them.   
And I'm just more thinking about getting ready for Evian, last major of the year, and getting warmed up and ready for that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT