NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v HEAT
May 23, 2005
Eddie Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Talk about Shaq.
 
EDDIE JONES:  He came out and gave it a great effort, did what we expected, and he gave us a great lift at the beginning of the game and also down the stretch.  He was making great plays with people, rebounding, playing defense, doing the job.  We expect him to come out and play well. 
 
Q.  When you look back at what happened tonight, what do you attribute it to?
 
EDDIE JONES:  Well, all the rebounding.  We gave them too many easy ones, you know, dunks, lay-ups, open shots.  We gave just too many of those things. 
 
Q.  After the team tied it up at 80 and only scored one point in the last five minutes and eight seconds, what happened there?
 
EDDIE JONES:  Five minutes and eight seconds?  
 
Q.  Yeah.
 
EDDIE JONES:  We had good looks, had good looks at the rim, just missed shots.  You definitely have to give it to them, they played great defense and we didn't down the stretch.  When we needed to get stops, we didn't get them and they did. 
 
Q.  Third quarter they went on a quick 8-0 run.  What happened there in the beginning of the quarter?
 
EDDIE JONES:  They got going.  They made some shots.  Ben Wallace made two jump shots, Tayshaun Prince made a contested jump shot and somebody else made a contested jump shot.  Actually it was Rasheed Wallace.  He made a running shot.  I mean, they made shots and we kept our poise.  We didn't quit, we kept coming back at them.  I mean, this game is all about runs, and they had a great run to start the third and I thought we had a great one in the fourth. 
 
Q.  Did Shaq look like he had missed all that time to you?
 
EDDIE JONES:  He looked good.  You know what, he looked good.  He got up and down the court okay, post moves were strong, his rebounding, blocking shots, so he looked pretty good.  Hopefully he can get any better. 
 
Q.  When did you know for sure he was going to play?  Were you guys waiting for game time just like everybody else?
 
EDDIE JONES:  I mean, if he had a jersey on, I guess he was playing. 
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT