BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2016
Jay McLuen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  All right.  Jay, 13 points.  A little bit of a backup on 18.  Just more or less talk about your round and we'll get?  
JAY MCLUEN: Got off to a good start had a perfect number on the first hole, hit it four feet, made it.  Kind of from there I bogeyed the next hole, but I had a great attitude today and I hope to continue with it.  All I want to do is make birdie, make as many as I can.  I don't care how many bogeys, just make birdie.   
 Q.  How about 18, was the wait was that pretty distracting?  
JAY MCLUEN: I was telling the guys, telling Bryce, last year I double bogeyed 18 and missed the cut.  I had a few demons sitting on that tee 20 minutes.  Probably not the greatest thing ever, but hit the tee short pretty, much the way I want to do.  The wind may have taken it a few yards.  He said it nicked the tree, never could find it.  Four or five yards where I wanted it.  Just unfortunate I couldn't find it.  Able to come back and make birdie with my second ball.  So only lost a point.   
 Q.  How are the course conditions?  
JAY MCLUEN: Perfect.  Absolutely perfect.  A little wind this morning.  Kind of picked up towards the afternoon.  But it's really the winds were kind of good with the flag.  If the wind was on the left, the flag was on the left, set up the course really good.  I doubt it will be that the rest of the week, but it was nice today.   
 Q.  You're from Georgia?  
JAY MCLUEN: Yes.   
 Q.  Had you had much opportunity to play in thin air like this?  
JAY MCLUEN: No.   
 Q.  Did you really have to pull the throttle back on some of your shots today?  
JAY MCLUEN: No, pretty much were able to calculate the elevation into it.  But the biggest thing I've noticed is just my aim is dry and my throat is dry.  I can't drink enough water.  But elevation, I'm starting to like it, 30 yards further.  It's nice.   
 Q.  And finally what does a round like this do for you in terms of confidence?  
JAY MCLUEN: It sets me up for a good rest of the week.  I'm a non-member on this tour.  If I can make something happen this week we can maybe move to where I want to be.  But it's a good first step.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT