SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 25, 2013
Bruce Vaughan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk a little about your round today. 
BRUCE VAUGHAN:   I started off good.   I hit a good shot on the first hole and made birdie.   And then just kind of kept it going and I made another birdie someplace. 

Q.   On No. 1 and number 7. 
BRUCE VAUGHAN:   Yeah.   I hit it left on 7, and, off the tee there, but it was in the rough, but it was sitting good and I just had a wedge in there and made birdie there. 
Then we got to 9 and coming up the fairway and the siren blew.   And I had it on the green, went back out and 2‑putted that. 
10, I had a really good drive on 10.   Good shot down there.   And had a big clump of mud on my ball.   And if it had been a few hours earlier, because the fairways were starting to firm up and it was running, and a clump of mud on it and it went straight left off of there and I was just dead there.   Didn't have much of a shot.   Made bogey there. 
And then birdied 12.   Made the long putt on 12. 
Hit short of the green on 13 and didn't get that up‑and‑down. 
But just kind of parred in from there. 

Q.   Did the rain change the course at all?
BRUCE VAUGHAN:   Softened the fairways up a little bit.   I started getting a little bit of mud on my ball and there wasn't mud starting the day.   It was, actually, the fairways were starting to firm up a little bit. 
There on 10, it was kind of an unfortunate break, because I actually hit a good drive and just had a 6‑iron to the green.   And where that pin was, it was accessible. 
But it just come out and mud was on the right and normally that's what it does, mud on the right, ball goes left.   And vice versa.   And I wasn't smart enough to say, well, okay, let's aim it over there at the flag.   The wind was downwind and out of the left and I just thought just aim it at the flag because I was hitting it pretty decent.   And I made bogey there. 
Then when I made bogey on that 13th hole, that kind of took the momentum out and ‑‑ but I hit a good shot on 16.   I had a legitimate chance for birdie there. 
And then I haven't played 17 worth a darn the last three days anyway. 
And then I had a good chance on 18.   So overall it is okay. 

Q.   How do you feel going into tomorrow?
BRUCE VAUGHAN:   Okay.   I talked to you yesterday and my knee was bad and I got it wrapped up today and stuff and it wasn't hurting as bad today.   So, I don't know, I've had six knee surgeries, but it hasn't ‑‑ here lately it's actually been fairly tolerable.   And I don't know whether it's that zoysia grass walking on that spongy stuff that's caused it or what.   But the knee was okay today.   It wasn't hurting like it was yesterday.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT