U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 29, 2010
Bruce Vaughan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 BRUCE VAUGHAN: More shot probably than anything. I did, I hit pretty good, got up and down a couple times early on. And birdied No. 11. And then bogeyed 14, short iron and wedge. I bogeyed there and after that the only fairway I missed was No. 7.   
 So hit a lot of greens and drove it good. Hit some in there pretty close and made putts. I did everything you're supposed to do, wasn't nothing crazy, hit a lot of fairways, a few greens and made some putts.   
  
  Q. What about this course suits your play?   
 BRUCE VAUGHAN: I guess today it did. Sometimes you have to walk single file down the fairway. I was lucky, I drove it good. That's the key, and at least then you can get to the middle of the greens and stuff, and that's -- a lot of times that's all I was aiming for was to hit the middle of the green.   
  
  Q. What are your expectations?   
 BRUCE VAUGHAN: You know, it's just the first day, I mean, there is a lot of golf left and a lot of trouble out there for the next three days.   
  
  Q. Did you feel like the greens were more accepting today?   
 BRUCE VAUGHAN: I played nine holes yesterday afternoon, you know, and they were hard then and they're hard now. You've got to play through the bounces, you know, and some of these flags you just can't go at, if you try going at 'em you're going to make a bogey or a double. You've got to carry the bunkers or the ridge and if you do it's not going to stop in the middle of the green, 30 feet is not that bad.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 BRUCE VAUGHAN: You know, normally I consider myself driving pretty decent and last week at the British I drove it -- I either drove it perfect or off the world. I had 15 birdies last week and shot 5-over par tournament so it was either feast or famine.   
  
  Q. Carnoustie or here, trying to find a point to hit it?   
 BRUCE VAUGHAN: That's one thing about tree-lined courses, it gives you definition of where you're going and you can carve it off one side or the other. Over there you don't have that luxury, you're just trying to avoid all the pot bunkers and stuff like that.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 BRUCE VAUGHAN: I think so, I think most guys will tell you that what you get something that you're aiming at that you can.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT