U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 30, 2009
Bruce Vaughan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Do you feel like the number could be a little lower today?
 BRUCE VAUGHAN: Yeah, I think so. I left a few putts out there, you know, got away with a few shots. And played okay; you know, nothing crazy, nothing bad. So I'm happy with it. And a little disappointed. I mean, it should have been, could have been.

 Q. Because you missed, what, about a 5-footer and 10-footer coming in?
 BRUCE VAUGHAN: Well, it was a little farther than that. The one on 18 was probably ten feet or something.

 Q. Did you feel like you hit pretty well all day?
 BRUCE VAUGHAN: Not really. I didn't really hit it solid, still made some bad swings and got away with them and stuff. 
 But, you know, I didn't do anything stupid, you know. Just kind of kept the ball out there in front of me and, you know, missed a few putts. But, overall, I mean, three more of these 68s and see where that finishes.

 Q. Did it feel like a 68 today?
 BRUCE VAUGHAN: It is what it is (laughter.)

 Q. What about number 10, birdied 10, 11, 13. What did you do so well --
 BRUCE VAUGHAN: I didn't birdie 10. I birdied 11 and 13.

 Q. What did you do so well there to start the back nine?
 BRUCE VAUGHAN: Nothing. You know, I knocked it on 9 there and 2-putted it for birdie, and then, 11, I, you know, missed a green on that Par 5 and 2 but got it up and down. Then hit a pretty good shot on 13, you know, about three feet and made that. 
 But, you know, I had a few other chances. But, you know, I would have liked to made that one on 18.

 Q. Any carry over from last week?
 BRUCE VAUGHAN: I think just the same play. You know, just played pretty decent since last -- I played pretty good all of last week. The last few days I played a little better. So, you know, just -- like I said, I just kept the ball in front of me and didn't do anything stupid.

 Q. Crowds?
 BRUCE VAUGHAN: The crowds are good. I'm impressed. There's a lot of crowd.
 You know, I didn't play last year. I played at Whistling Straits, and they didn't have near as many people. But guys got to be happy with the crowds here, I believe, absolutely. 
 I was surprised how many people were out here on Tuesday, you know. Then yesterday the weather was kind of bad when I was playing a practice round but there were still a lot of people out here. I think it's good crowd. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT