NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL FOUR
March 31, 2001
Jim Haney
Niele Ivey
Alicia Ratay
Ruth Riley
Kelley Siemon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DEBBIE BYRNE:  We are ready for your questions.  
 

Q.  Ruth, tell us about one of the greatest rivalries in all of college sports, Notre Dame and Purdue? 
 
RUTH RILEY:  Well, you know Purdue is a team we are pretty familiar with.  We have played them a lot in the last couple years, and we actually have played them a lot in our NCAA history as well.  I think we always face up in the tournament, usually sometimes.  It's been a good rivalry for us and we are excited for the matchup tomorrow.  
 

Q.  Ruth, what kind of memory do you have of the last time you played Purdue in the NCAA? 
 
RUTH RILEY:   We remember having a lead at the halftime and going into the locker room, and then, you know, they came back.  They had Stephanie Wright, Figgs; they had a good team that year, and we came out in the second half with a lot of intensity and fire and ended up winning that game.  That was freshman year and I think we are definitely a different team in three years.  But it's an experience that I'm sure the seniors will remember.  
 

Q.  Can you talk about your ankle, did it swell up overnight?  Have you tested it? 
 
NIELE IVEY:  I've never had a sprain to that ankle and it's doing really well.  It didn't swell up like too bad or anything like that.  I had treatment at 8:00  a.m. this morning, so bright and early working on it for today.  So, I mean, I'm going to be okay.  
 

Q.  How far back does your history with Katie Douglas go, just All-Stars?  What were your initial impressions when you first got to know her?
 
RUTH RILEY:  I played against Katie in AU and then played with her on the All-Star Team, and actually on the junior Indiana All-Star Team our junior and senior year.  You know, I've seen her game.  She's a great player.  I think to her tribute, she is a versatile player, she can play anything.  She's done such an amazing job  -- (inaudible) -- I think we're definitely going to have to look out for her tomorrow.  
 

Q.  Three days into your second, sort of Final Four experience, and now that  -- are there lessons that you've learned from the first time that are proving valuable this time? 
 
NIELE IVEY:  From the first Final Four?  I think I've taken everything, that whole experience with me.  And just seeing how the atmosphere being a Final Four team and seeing Beth, Katryna, their work ethic was so incredible, they had so much passion for the game.  I learned a lot back then, and I guess the motivation and determination to get back on the floor is something that carried with me  -- stayed with me, so I learned a lot.  I think it was a great experience for me.  
 

Q.  Can you talk about how much contact you've had with people here already?  I know Jackie Stiles had a little bit of problem with all of the people she knows, taking a lot of her time; can you talk about that? 
 
NIELE IVEY:  Yeah, I have a code name on the phone, so they can't get through.  But not too much contact.  Just my immediate family.  So, I mean, it's been  -- I've been trying to take calls or see people a certain amount of time and then make sure that I'm focused, especially before the game.  So I think it has not been too hectic. 
 

Q.  Were you all recruited by Purdue in high school? 
 
RUTH RILEY:  I was recruited by Purdue.  It was one of the teams, actually, that was near the top of my list because it was so close to home.  I wasn't really looking to go very far away.  I actually went to a camp there -- (inaudible) -- and then when Caroline Peck got the job, she recruited me, as well, but I felt like Notre Dame was the place I wanted to be. 
 

Q.  Why was Notre Dame the place you wanted to go? 
 
RUTH RILEY:  It's actually the only campus that I went on a visit to.  I felt like you know with the coaching staff and the athletic academic programs, it's just where I felt comfortable.  I knew that they had the potential to do some great things.  They were showing that.  They went to the Final Four the year before I got there and I felt like it was a place where, you know, I could  -- would have the most opportunity.  
 

Q.  For any of you, any concern that last night playing Connecticut, one of your big rivals, that perhaps you expended so much emotion that there will not be a whole lot left for tomorrow? 
 
KELLEY SIEMON:  I don't think that we are worried about that at all.  That was a great game.  We obviously came back from a pretty big deficit.  Our goal the whole year long was to win the National Championship and we are one game away from that. And I don't think that a win against Connecticut has overshadowed that final goal, and so I think we are going to be ready.  I think we are just going to get down to business today in practice and hopefully play our game tomorrow. 
 

Q.  Now that you've won a game here, what extra do you get, if any, from playing on this court? 
 
NIELE IVEY:  Just the experience of last night and getting the jitters out, I guess, early, especially being nervous, being at home for myself personally. But it's a great gym to play in.  We were talking about that in the shoot around.  Great atmosphere, we are going to go out and play 110 percent for 40 minutes.  
 

Q.  You've had some pretty good battles with Camille Cooper at Purdue and I guess it goes back to the Indiana Kentucky All-Star Game when you guys faced each other.  What do you remember from that game and how both of your games have improved since then? 
 
RUTH RILEY:  Remember the Kentucky game when we played at home  -- we won the won in Indiana and she played well when we played in Kentucky.  We lost that game. You know every time we've faced Purdue it's been a matchup between Camille and I.  She's a great post player and you have to step your game up when you play against a player like that.  She's tall and strong.  I think we are kind of identical in the way that we play our game, kind of old-school post.  I think it will be a good matchup with us.  
 

Q.  Purdue is a really physical team, Big-10 is really physical.  What's the plan? 
 
ALICIA RATAY:  Try and come out aggressive with a lot of intensity and hopefully we can come out with a win.  
 

Q.  Purdue, like Notre Dame, is a balanced scoring team, but last night, everybody, every starter, took between 10 and 15 shots.  What does that mean to your defense, to play a team that balanced?
 
NIELE IVEY:  I think it's just  --  I'm excited about that matchup.  It's going to be a great game.  Both teams have inside-outside powers, and basically we have to make sure that we are definitely on our toes, you know, defensively, because I mean any one of these players on our team can have a great night, score 20-plus shots, but it is whoever is playing defense and rebounding who is going to win that game, so we are definitely going to be very aggressive on defense. 
 

Q.  How were you able to learn how to control your emotions over the course of four years? 
 
RUTH RILEY:  I think it is just maturity, really.  Coming in as a freshman you are not used to the style of play on the collegiate level; it's faster, it's quicker.  And then, you know, as a senior, I think I just wanted to be in the game.  So, you know, I really focused coming in on staying out of foul trouble and I'm just happy to be able to do that this year. 
 

Q.  What are your memories from the game with Purdue back in December and how do you think both teams have changed since then? 
 
KELLEY SIEMON:  I remember it being a very close game.  We were up by  -- I'm not sure what our largest margin was that we were up by, but I know that they came back.  I think Katie Douglas hit a couple of big 3s.  It really came down to the end.  I think it ended up being  -- we won by 11, 11 or 12, but that was probably free throws, because it was a very close game.  I know that we have matured as a team.  That was the beginning of the year.  We are more confident.  But, you know, I don't know  about -- I am assuming that they are the exact same way.  They have obviously gotten here, and, you know, it will be another great matchup, I'm sure.  
 

Q.  Having grown up in Indiana, being recruited by Purdue, I just wondered, what's going through your mind over the years, seeing all the changes over the years?
 
RUTH RILEY:  I think the Purdue program has been hit hard a lot over the years, you know, like you said with the losses.  I think everyone felt that loss, and, you know, it's sad for women's basketball in general, and you know it is amazing what they have been able to do with all of the coaching changes.  I think it shows a lot of character for the players that they have on that team and the desire that they have to succeed and the fact that they have been able to do that. 
 

Q.  Jeneka has mentioned that you have been a mentor for her.  What have you seen as far as her development this year as a freshman? 
 
NIELE IVEY:  Yes, I think she came in this summer and she really impressed me because she called me and she's like, "You know, do you want to go shoot."  I think that shows a lot of character that she wants to come shoot with me get on the floor early.  She slowed a lot of work ethic early.  She's a smart player, catches on.  She knew the plays first day of practice.  By the end of the week, she knew everything in the system.  She works hard and unfortunately she had an ankle injury she suffered through the beginning of the season but she's really developed as a player.  She has that great attitude.  She's what Notre Dame needs.  I'm glad that I'm leaving to have her step up and be a leader next year and the years to come.  I think she's going to do a really good job here.  
 

Q.  So much is talked about the rivalry with Notre Dame and UCONN.  Is there a rivalry with Purdue?  Maybe start with Ruth, since she's a Hoosier? 
 
RUTH RILEY:  I think the rivalry with Connecticut might be bigger, just because we play them so much in the Conference and then in the Conference tournament.  But I think Purdue is a non-Conference team that we always end up playing every year or a couple of times a year.  I think Purdue is probably one of our bigger non-Conference rivalries.  
 
KELLEY SIEMON:  I guess there is.  I think with the tradition of Notre Dame, I'm sure that there is in football, too.  It's just another team, I think the way that I look at it.  Obviously, the UCONN/Notre Dame matchup is big this year.  It has not been in the past couple years, but I mean, like Ruth said, we have always played them and it's always been a great game.  They have always been tough.  I guess this is a pretty big matchup.  It's nice that it is in-state.  
 

Q.  In terms of keys to the game, what one or two things does your team absolutely have to get done for you to win tomorrow? 
 
NIELE IVEY:  Definitely rebounding.  We have to be great on both ends of rebounding.  Some of them we're not doing too well right now, but we're doing a pretty good job.  If we can do a little bit better job, especially defense, I just think that's going to be the key to the game.  We have to make sure that we are definitely  -- I think every possession is going to be key for us tomorrow, especially defensively.  
 

Q.  The all-Indiana rivalry, the game is what people are talking about, I wonder if growing up in the state, you grew up looking at the mens and boys rivalry with Hoosiers, Larry Bird.  What is your take on it now that the women are getting such attention about this? 
 
RUTH RILEY:  Couldn't think of a more fitting way honestly to end my career, playing Purdue in the championship game.  Growing up, Hoosiers was my favorite movie and I think I was stereotypical of that, you know, like just playing outside on the courts.  Everyone around me, would always play pick-up, and I think it shows how far women's basketball has come in the State of Indiana and the growth that has occurred over the years. 
 

Q.  Notre Dame football has been just celebrated for a century, movies have been made, it's been mythologized.  The fact that you have created such a wonderful tradition at Notre Dame and right now the women's basketball program at Notre Dame is being celebrated, like the beacon of a very proud athletic department, how does that make you feel?  Is there some extra pride there that comes with this success? 
 
RUTH RILEY:  I think because of the tradition that surrounds Notre Dame football, you know, it's the first thing that comes to mind.  Notre Dame became co-ed not too long ago, so that's why women sports are just emerging.  I think sports in general, the soccer teams, the softball teams, all our programs are on a rise, and we are just excited to have the support of the Notre Dame family that we do.  
 
NIELE IVEY:  Personally, I'm so proud of this program, I think coming in, not being one of the top programs and see so many changes happen since I've been here, that's something I'm going to take away with me.  We made history so many times this past season and so many great things have happened to this program, I just feel like I'm blessed and lucky to be a part of it.  
 

Q.  How much of the Purdue game did you watch last night and Camille Cooper seemed to get every offensive rebound.  What will you do specifically to try to get them off the boards?  
 
ERICKA HANEY:  I think a lot of it comes from just like  --  I'm not really sure what happened last night, how they got all those rebounds.  All we have to do is just check out and go to the glass and get the rebounds.  I think it's just all effort and attitude with rebounding.  So I think that's something that we'll do a lot better than we did the other night.  
 
KELLEY SIEMON:  Yesterday was a horrible offensive day for us rebounding, especially defensively and offensively, and I think that it is  -- the desire was there, but we just were not getting them. I think tomorrow it is going to be just like Ericka said, doing the little things, turning around and boxing out players.  It's harder to do defensive rebounding when you are in a zone because you have to get an area and sometimes you can have three people in an area, and so that makes it tough.  But we are just going to have to get all five of us in there and be fighting for boards and hopefully, I'm sure that's going to be one of the keys to the game tomorrow.  But Purdue is a great rebounding team, so we just need to make sure that we get so some of those.  
 

Q.  Your coach said the last time you were here that it felt like you were almost crashing a party, you were an uninvited guest.  This time you were kind of expected to be here.  Could you talk about the differences from coming here last time  --
 
NIELE IVEY:  Yeah, we were kind of a Cinderella team my freshman year, so definitely no one expected that.  I think Beth and Katryna just carried that team that year.  They did so many great things.  It was a first for everything, first, so many different things.  Especially now that we've had a great season, we were peaking, even though we lost in the BIG EAST tournament, we were very determined I think in this NCAA tournament, especially with so many senior veterans on this team.  We are definitely not going to give up.  We knew  -- we took each game obviously as the last  -- a sense of urgency, I think we had going into the tournament.  It's just a special team that we have this year, and we have such a great chemistry on and off the court.  We just love being around each other, regardless of the outcome and it's just been a great season for us. 
 

Q.  Were there any affects, like immediately after you went to the Final Four that you saw a difference from that year to the next year after going to the Final Four? 
 
NIELE IVEY:  It was totally a rebuilding year after that Final Four team.  They were gone, and it was basically my freshman year, coming in as point guard, behind Mileo (phonetic)  -- we had a lot of freshman coming in so, we had to do a lot of rebuilding that year.  We just had to learn from each other.  We've been playing with each other for four years, and every year we learn more and more from each other.  I think this year, that's why our chemistry is where it is and it's so great right now.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT