AL DIVISION SERIES: TIGERS v ATHLETICS
October 10, 2013
Dan Otero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Dan Otero. 

Q.   Dan, how would you describe your first playoff experience? 
DAN OTERO:   In one word, amazing!   It's been a great series as a fan to watch, I'm sure. 
I think we're all looking forward to today, and hopefully it's a good game again and we come out on top. 

Q.   Seems like even after Wednesday, it was very businesslike in the clubhouse.   How much would you say it was like and the general feeling since then? 
DAN OTERO:   You guys have been around the team the whole season, that's how it is after any loss.   We all stay even keeled.   We all know this is a bigger game than what we have had in the past.   But you go about your business the same way you have all year and go out there and put forth a good effort. 

Q.   How did Sonny seem today and what are your thoughts on a rematch of Game2. 
DAN OTERO:   I haven't seen Sonny today, so I don't know how he's doing.   But after being around him all year, I'm sure he's fine, because he doesn't get rattled by anything. 
When I saw the news yesterday that he was starting, I was pumped for him and the team because I think it's a great opportunity.   I don't think either pitcher can repeat Game2 performances, but I'm sure they're going to try. 

Q.   You saw Sonny in Sacramento and in Oakland this year.   Has he changed at all or would you say there are any differences from Sacramento to Oakland? 
DAN OTERO:   I don't think he's changed too much.   I think he has done what got him here and he's trying to focus on each pitch.   In Sacramento, he may have lost his concentration a little bit but that's to be expected.   He's matured here and what he's doing and how he goes about his business, no change there. 

Q.   You've turned into a guy who gets used reliably in big situations.   How have you done that?   What has worked for you to get you to this point in the bullpen? 
DAN OTERO:   It's going to be a boring answer because it's just doing what I've been doing.   I try not to let the moment get too big for me. 
The stadium was rockin' in Detroit the other night when I came in to face Hunter, that was a unique experience for me.   Once I'm ready, just slow everything down, get the sign, slow it down in my head and go. 

Q.   Dan, everybody talks about what Coco Crisp means at the top of this lineup.   What are your observations when you guys have him in there doing his thing? 
DAN OTERO:   He changes the dynamic of the team when he gets on base and is having the success he's having.   Usually when he goes, we go and we feed off him. 
He's kind of a quiet leader, leads by example.   We know what he brings to this team and we try to follow his lead.   He didn't win the Catfish Hunter Award for no reason.   We all respect him in the clubhouse. 

Q.   Can you talk about the bullpen pitching in the clinch situation, the general vibe? 
DAN OTERO:   I'll let you know how it is when we get down there, but this series we're into every pitch maybe a little more than the regular season.   We're ready to go whenever Bo‑Mel needs us.   We will be ready for anyone from now until the game ends and hopefully we can make good pitches. 

Q.   Dan, you've played at AT&T Park and here and there is so much being made of the Coliseum.   Is it a home field advantage for you guys even with the quirks and the issues? 
DAN OTERO:   I absolutely think it's a home‑field advantage.   The fans are absolutely insane in a good way for us.   They're rockin' from pitch one, even in Game 1 when we went down 3‑0, they didn't get quiet and I think that's awesome. 
They stay loud the whole game no matter the situation to get us energized or to keep us energized.   So they're as much a part of this as we are and hopefully we can put on a good show for them. 

Q.   Bob Melvin talked about Sonny's demeanor, called him a bulldog.   How would you describe him? 
DAN OTERO:   I think that's a great word to describe him.   He's very tenacious out there with his personality, even off the field.   He brings great tenacity to the mound and emotion.   He never gets too down on himself when he makes a bad pitch and he never gets too high.   He will stay in the moment really well and he's definitely a very tenacious competitor. 

Q.   Dan, Josh was your MVP in the regular season.   What do you expect out of him today?   He's been quiet this series. 
DAN OTERO:   He's normal, he's not quiet in the clubhouse.   He's made some great plays defensively.   He may not be hitting the ball really well, but it's not just for his offense, it's for his defense, too.   He's saved us some runs and hopefully he can contribute at the plate and you know his glove is going to be there and that's one thing we respect out of him as a staff. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Dan.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT