ALLSTATE BCS NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: LSU v ALABAMA
January 6, 2012
Tyrann Mathieu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   These are two teams that obviously know each other very well.   What would surprise you?  
TYRANN MATHIEU:   I think they're definitely going to throw us some new looks, some looks we never seen before.   Maybe some plays we never even seen before.   
So that's why we practice, to approach the game with the knowledge that to expect the unexpected.   So we're looking forward to playing those guys come Monday.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about your relationship with (indiscernible)?  
TYRANN MATHIEU:   I think leading up to the Heisman, I kind of met him through Russell Shepard.   Once we got to the Heisman, just became kind of close.   Talked about football, talked about life, and just got along pretty well.  
   
 Q.   (Question off microphone).   Do you expect that kind of game Monday night?  
TYRANN MATHIEU:   Saying it's two pretty good defenses playing in the game and two pretty good teams overall.   I don't think we expect the score to be 45 to 30.   
So we really expect our defense to stop those guys.   And I know those guys think the same.  
   
 Q.   Your coach obviously took over for Coach Saban.   There's some that didn't give him the respect that they did Coach Saban, and winning a National Championship still didn't (indiscernible), what would a win on Monday night, two National Championship wins (indiscernible)?  
TYRANN MATHIEU:   I think it would do a lot for his reputation.   Coach Miles is a great coach.   And he's a great teacher.   And I think he definitely can evaluate talent and able to put groups of guys together who get along with each other and are able to play hard, fight hard for each other.   
   
 Q.   You talked a little bit yesterday (indiscernible)?  
TYRANN MATHIEU:   It depends on the competition, and it depends on the edge that you're trying to catch that week.   So if anything, get the guy out of his game, whether you know his mother's name or know where he went to high school or where he grew up at, I think those kinds of things the players think about the whole game, like how do you know that.   I just try to catch an edge any way I can.  
   
 Q.   Talked about Trent Richardson, the person, what about the player, Trent Richardson?   Obviously the first time around he didn't get in the end zone but he was able to get some yards.   What allows him to have success?  
TYRANN MATHIEU:   I think obviously, I think, our view of him, and everyone else's view of him, he's a great player, a great running back.   And he's pretty much a beast.   He's a freak in the open field, and usually takes one or more defenders to bring him down.   
I think as a defense and as a secondary, we're looking forward to helping out the rest in support and bringing him to the ground.  
   
 Q.   You had to overcome a lot to get to this point, a lot of off‑the‑field stuff going on at LSU, including your suspension.   What did you gain from that experience and what have you learned getting to this point through all the trials and tribulations?  
TYRANN MATHIEU:   When I struggled at, I truly believe you have to go through things to strengthen your faith and to definitely broaden your horizon and to definitely open your eyes to let you know what you're in it for.   And that's teammates and that's LSU as the institution.   
So you never want to forget that.   Just teaches you to keep a high spirit at all times.   And I truly believe the things we went through this year, if we can get through that, we can pretty much get through anything on the field.  
   
 Q.   Tyrann, along those same lines, some of the challenges and struggles you went through as a child, how much stronger did that make you?  
TYRANN MATHIEU:   It teaches you to fight for everything, and nothing's going to be given to you.   So with that being said, you know, you try to take that to the field.   You don't want to take any player off and you don't want to take any opponent lightly.   
So preparation and hard work and determination is really my motto.  
   
 Q.   As a child, how important was it for you to go into your aunt and uncle's home for the support and everything?  
TYRANN MATHIEU:   It obviously was a blessing to be able to see two different sides of the scale.   And they definitely helped me out a lot and definitely took me out of a rough situation.   So I commend them for doing that for me.   And I truly thank them.  
   
 Q.   You talked a little bit about the trash talking.   Probably have the chattiest guy on Alabama Marquis Maze.   I asked him about you.   He said:   I can't really remember a lot of trash talk.   Do you have any ammo on him as far as the school and his mom or is he more (indiscernible)?   
TYRANN MATHIEU:   He's definitely one of the more talkative players on their team.   But when you are playing against a great team like Alabama, you don't try to pick out individuals.   You'd rather just focus on the whole team and you'd rather just watch film of the whole team and get a better understanding of the team.   
   
 Q.   Do you say anything to Kirkpatrick before this game and just thoughts, statistics from the play or whatever?  
TYRANN MATHIEU:   Well, obviously didn't mean to cheap shot him or to hold him up or whatever the case may be.   I think I was just trying to get to my technique, the technique we practice every day in practice.   And unfortunately I wasn't able to get there and kind of held on to his jersey.   
No, I haven't had many words for him.   So I wish him the best of luck in this game and wish him the best of luck in the future.  
   
 Q.   What do you think your story tells kids in New Orleans?   
TYRANN MATHIEU:   Well, you know, to never give up, to never give in.   And there's a lot of negativity surrounding the city.   And it's a lot of people trying to pull youth down.   So just strive for the best and just pray every day and work hard at what you want to be in life and keep guarding your life, and all those plans can come true.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT