FEDEX ORANGE BOWL: OKLAHOMA v FLORIDA STATE
December 31, 2000
Josh Heupel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  As you started your career, what were your expectations, what were your goals? 

JOSH HEUPEL:   Well, for me, I wanted to win a National Championship and be the best football player I could for that football team.


Q.  Could you possibly envision any of this? 

JOSH HEUPEL:   Well, no.  I envisioned playing somewhere else for the national title  -- things happened the way they did.  The Lord brought me here for a reason, given me a great platform, and I'm excited to play with the opportunity for a national title.


Q.  You guys are here in Miami, you have all this media, set up almost like a Super Bowl type atmosphere.

JOSH HEUPEL:   It is a great experience for everyone involved.  The greatest part of it would be winning the national title, though.


Q.  Josh, you obviously have experience in big games.  You guys have done whatever has been required all year, but this may be a little bit different.  How has the team handled it so far?

JOSH HEUPEL:   We are handling it very well.  I would also add that we have been involved in a Championship Game and a championship-type atmosphere already this year, the Big  12 Championship Game, and I don't foresee this being too much different.  Again, it is a little higher stakes than what we had a couple weeks ago.


Q.  In the short amount of time you spent with Chris Weinke when you guys were accepting awards, how well did you get to know him and how much do you guys have in common personality-wise?

JOSH HEUPEL:   You don't get a chance to know each other too well.  The thing I know about him is he is a great leader for his football team and he is a great player.


Q.  How exciting is that match-up, you going head-to-head?

JOSH HEUPEL:   It's not a head-to-head match-up.  If you get caught up in a head-to-head match-up, you're doing your team a disservice.  January 3rd is about Oklahoma Sooners against Florida State Seminoles and whichever teams comes out on top.


Q.  Do you see similarities on how you direct the team, the way you lead, the way he does?

JOSH HEUPEL:   I haven't had a chance to watch him.  I'll be more concerned with their defense than anything else.


Q.  Talk about their defense.  Will they cause any problems any more than anybody else you see this year?

JOSH HEUPEL:   Well, they are extremely athletic.  As anyone would guess, they make a lot of big plays and don't give up many.  So the offense needs to take care of the football, give us  -- take what they give us and know that we both have a chance. 


Q.  Do you compare their defense to your defense?

JOSH HEUPEL:   Well, both of very aggressive, run after the ball, very athletic. 


Q.  Anything different? 

JOSH HEUPEL:   Well, I think the way they go about it; they are more of a zone-blitz game. 


Q.  Would winning the National Championship would mean a lot more to you than winning the Heisman Trophy?

JOSH HEUPEL:   I think everyone on this football team is more concerned with team goals and team efforts than individual awards.  And that's a special thing, and that's what got us to the point that we are at today.


Q.  Can you talk about  -- obviously, Bob Stoops is coming into Oklahoma, new coaching staff, new everything.  You didn't have any idea what they were going to do.  Talk about the process of how you made ultimately made the decision to go there? 

JOSH HEUPEL:   I got a chance to talk to Mike Leach from Kentucky.  I knew what type of offense they were going to run.  I spent a lot of time with them on a recruiting trip.  I also had a chance to sit down and talk to Coach Stoops and look into his eyes.  And a question I had was:  "Were we going to be able to compete and even win a Big  12 Championship and a National Championship?"  And he strongly believed that we would have that opportunity if we gave it everything we did.  The team bought into the vision, and that's what a head coach needs to do, sell his vision to the kids inside the program.  If they are able to do that, then they are going to be successful.


Q.  What kinds of advice would you give about what decision to make?

JOSH HEUPEL:   You know, the thing that Mike Leach told me was:  "Go to a place that you feel comfortable.  Go to a place that you believe you have an opportunity to excel and you are going to be given a great shot to play."


Q.  Is it true you've been watching film since you were five, six, seven years old?

JOSH HEUPEL:   I don't think I was breaking down film by myself at five eating a peanut butter and jelly sandwich. (Laughs.)  But as soon as I could walk, I spent time with my dad.  It was not about the game of football.  More than anything at that time it was just the opportunity to for me to spend a lot of time with my father, and I guess naturally you just kind of soak up knowledge around the game.


Q.  A lot of people would project doing things like that  --

JOSH HEUPEL:   You're naturally watching film with him.  When it's time for him to go to the office and there are a few days and you want to go with him, you know, at six in the morning, you're going to be watching film and eating a doughnut or whatever they have got. 


Q.  Were you actually learning anything from that at that time?

JOSH HEUPEL:   Well, you know, I don't think I was consciously thinking about the game at that time, but you pick up things if you're an independent kid. 


Q.  Your team has not gotten the respect it deserves being undefeated.  Playing Florida State, some people tend to think Florida State is going to dominate the game.  What are your thoughts on that?

JOSH HEUPEL:   Again, I'll answer this question.  Again, we are not concerned with how people outside of our program perceive us.  If we were concerned with that or believe what they wrote about us, we would not be in the position that we are today.  We would be a 7-4, 6-5 team. 


Q.  You're going to prove it on the field then?

JOSH HEUPEL:   Yeah.  We're going to be ready to play them.  We're going to go out there and handle our business.


Q.  Any truth to the stories we read that your mom said the first time she let you go with her dad, she said, "That's it, I lost a husband to football and now I'm losing a son"?

JOSH HEUPEL:   Well, whether or not she knew it at the time, she did.  I enjoy being around the game of football.  I enjoy being around my dad.  I enjoy being around the athletes.  It is a dream come true.  At least it was my dream come true, to spend time with athletes, kids much older than me.


Q.  Kids that are watching the TV, the Big 12 Championship Game, they kept putting the camera on your dad ?

JOSH HEUPEL:   I think every coach has a hard time when they are sitting in the stands.  It is a little bit different atmosphere for them, something they are unaccustomed to and feel like they have little control over what is going on.


Q.  Is he here already?

JOSH HEUPEL:   Yeah, they came in -- I think the 28th.  So they have been here enjoying the city a little.


Q.  How well have you gotten to know Chris Weinke, and can you describe him at all?

JOSH HEUPEL:   I didn't get a chance.  When you're doing the circuit, or whatever you want to call it, you don't get a chance to know each other real well.  You meet and talk a little bit.  But the most I know about him is what he does on the field.  He's a great leader and a great player. 


Q.  Did you get any impressions at all?

JOSH HEUPEL:   No. 


Q.  How does Florida State's defense compare at all to Texas and Nebraska and the other teams you play?  Which team are they most similar to?

JOSH HEUPEL:   I don't know if you can compare them to any one team.  I think every team, every defense has it's own style, it's own characteristics.


Q.  What do you think of all of the things you guys have been doing?

JOSH HEUPEL:   It's been good.  We got to enjoy some experiences that we don't see happen very often; so enjoy them when they do happen.  But also prepare yourself to play a great game.


Q.  Are you ready to put them behind and you get out on the field?

JOSH HEUPEL:   I think everybody is anticipating the game and will be ready for it.


Q.  What is the demeanor of your team:  Is it nervous, calm, businesslike or excited? 

JOSH HEUPEL:   No.  This team does not get nervous.  We are a very poised, confident group.  We are prepared to go out and play each and every game, and this week is no different.


Q.  Just another game?  Doesn't have a different feel to it?

JOSH HEUPEL:   You know, it is a little bit different.  I think more than anything, the media exposure of it is different.  But our football team doesn't see a lot of that.  A lot of guys don't worry about what is being said in the media or what is perceived of us.  We are worried about our own perception of ourselves.


Q.  How is it coming in here with so much OU history here?

JOSH HEUPEL:   Hopefully we can transfer some of the history here over to Joe Robbie.


Q.  Can you discuss your arm?  It seems in the last month or so it seems like you were not as strong as you were?

JOSH HEUPEL:   Again, the media is going to look for something, blow something out of proportion.  That's something that's been blown out of proportion.


Q.  But it looks very clear that your arm is not doing the same things in the last few games that you were going earlier in the year?

JOSH HEUPEL:   You know, offensively, we are were not as successful earlier on in the year.  Hopefully on the 3rd we are. 


Q.  You've seen films of Florida State's defense.  What are your impressions?  What stands out when you watch film of them?

JOSH HEUPEL:   What you always see from their defense is great athletes who don't give up big plays and make a lot of big plays.  They are extremely athletic, extremely quick to pass.  We've seen some of those styles of defenses before. 


Q.  Which teams? 

JOSH HEUPEL:   Kansas State is a fast, aggressive team.  Texas. 


Q.  It has to feel like summertime?

JOSH HEUPEL:   Right now it's summertime compared to what we've seen.


Q.  Coach Bowden said that Weinke is the catalyst to his team.  Would you say that you are the catalyst to this team?

JOSH HEUPEL:   I don't believe that I am the catalyst to this football team.  I believe that I am the leader for this football team, but we have a lot of leaders on this football team, and that is what has allowed us to be successful.


Q.  What is the hype surroundings this game compared to the Heisman a few weeks ago?

JOSH HEUPEL:   Completely different.


Q.  Were you disappointed  --

JOSH HEUPEL:   Really wasn't too disappointed.  No one on this team is concerned with individual awards.  Before the season set out, I didn't set a goal to be the Heisman Trophy winner.  I set a goal to win the National Championship, and hopefully, I can attain that goal on January 3rd.


Q.  What was the experience like that week in New York?  What were some of your impressions during that week? 

JOSH HEUPEL:   Well, it's obviously a different experience.  Something that I'll definitely remember.  Something  that I'll look back on with fond memories.


Q.  What did you do? 

JOSH HEUPEL:   We went around the City for a couple days.  You know, you don't get a lot of free time, actually, while you're there.


Q.  Your experiences since leaving high school   --

JOSH HEUPEL:   I think everything, every decision everyone makes in their lives every day dictates and forms them who they are as an individual and a person, and for me, it's no different.  I've enjoyed every step of the way, I've enjoyed everywhere I've been, and I thank God took me to all of those different places for a reason.  I've matured and grew a lot as a person and as an individual during that time.


Q.  What type of coach would you say Bob Stoops is? 

JOSH HEUPEL:   A great leader.  Strong vision.  He's able to sell that vision to everyone on the football team. 


Q.  Obviously, you grew up around coaches, what's he like compared to some of the coaches you've seen? 

JOSH HEUPEL:   Well, first of all, his coaching style is very aggressive.  He's not playing not to lose.  He's going to give it everything he has got.  He's going to make sure his team is prepared.  Make sure his coaching staff is prepared.


Q.  A lot of people say he has a father figure quality to him; would you agree with that? 

JOSH HEUPEL:   Oh, I would say that.  He's very calm.  Everyone insides loves him. 


Q.  What do you think of that little trophy over there?

JOSH HEUPEL:   That's a nice  -- something that we would like to add to our collection. 


Q.  Can you talk about your time at Snow?

JOSH HEUPEL:  I tell you, there are a lot of hardships while you're living your junior college life.  I was living with seven other people, but it was one of the best times of my life.  I really enjoyed the place.  You know, football isn't about the media exposure, TV.  It doesn't matter where you're playing.  We shared lockers with one other person.  It was a great experience.  I enjoyed it.   I enjoyed playing football. 


Q.  How big was that apartment that you stayed in with seven other people?

JOSH HEUPEL:   Not very big.  We had three people living in one and two people in two other rooms.  I had a single which was about as big as this box I'm standing on right now.


Q.  I understand that you had to kind of make do with meals and stuff like that? 

JOSH HEUPEL:   Well, you know, you're cooking for yourself, paying for your own school.  So you're not living high on the hog, I guess you could say.


Q.  Lots of Ramen?

JOSH HEUPEL:   We tried not to eat too much Ramen, but a lot of rice.


Q.  Did Snow give you any help -- (inaudible)?

JOSH HEUPEL:   Snow  -- athletically, they only gave one scholarship a year. 


Q.  Is it only when you're asked about it that you look back on your journey? 

JOSH HEUPEL:   I haven't had the time to look back on it.  When I'm done playing, I will, and enjoy it. 


Q.  As far as thinking about it though, Ogden, all of these places, now you're here; you don't get a chance to do that at all?

JOSH HEUPEL:   There's not time in the day.  Again, at the same time, you need to be very thankful for what God has placed in your life, and I am. 


Q.  A lot of people say that Florida State might have an advantage in this game because of their speed.  From what you've seen, is it significantly better than Kansas State's or Nebraska's defense?

JOSH HEUPEL:   They are an extremely fast, athletic team.  I can't compare them with someone else, but they are very athletic.


Q.  Do you have any childhood memories  --

JOSH HEUPEL:   I do. The one memory I have of Jamelle Holieway throwing a touchdown pass to Keith Jackson. 


Q.  Where were you?

JOSH HEUPEL:   I was in Aberdeen.  The other one I have is Colorado and Notre  Dame, that was here, wasn't it in, with Rocket.


Q.  Probably in snow up there.  What does the Orange Bowl mean, the weather, the climate, the field, the festivities?

JOSH HEUPEL:   To me it is just another huge game on January 3rd, a day completely filled with football. 


Q.  I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the running game and how many times you're going to carry the ball? 

JOSH HEUPEL:   First of all, we need to get Seth Littrell involved in the running game, get him a couple leads.  And then if we can get Quentin Griffin on the edges a little bit, that will help us play put defense on and make some big plays.


Q.  Did you used to get up on January 1 and watch football all the time?

JOSH HEUPEL:   Yeah, that was something we did.  My dad and I enjoyed.


Q.  Is it odd that this is going to be a Wednesday; January 1 isn't the day anymore?

JOSH HEUPEL:   No.  January 3rd is, and we're thankful for that.


Q.  Your mom said that growing up, you didn't care to play with any toys or anything, just got that football for Christmas  --

JOSH HEUPEL:   I got of lot of balls.  Didn't matter what it was.  I played hockey as a kid hockey and basketball at the same time, soccer, baseball, I did it all.  I was involved in athletics as long as I can remember.  It was something I enjoyed.  Football has always been my greatest passion. 


Q.  So you weren't envious of anybody else's G.I. Joe's or anything?

JOSH HEUPEL:   No.  I that's something I wasn't too worried about playing with.


Q.  There have been a lot of comparisons of the two quarterbacks in this game.  What would you say are the similarities or differences?

JOSH HEUPEL:   I haven't got a chance to watch them offensively at all this year.  I know he does a great job.  Offensively, he's a great leader and a great player.


Q.  How about the road you both took, very different, very different roads.  Obviously he went through the surgery, and then you going through junior college first?

JOSH HEUPEL:   Obviously, we had two long journeys to the place where we are on January 3rd, and I think it shows a lot of character on both of our parts to stay strong and perservere. 


Q.  Have you seen Chris play a game?

JOSH HEUPEL:   I got to see like a quarter against Clemson. 


Q.  Talking about the passing game.  How important is that to the total offense?

JOSH HEUPEL:   That is extremely important for us in offense.  To be as successful as we need to be, we need to have both parts of our game going, and, you know, January 3rd, we intend to have a great time.


Q.  Did you think it would be this cold down here in Miami?

JOSH HEUPEL:   No.  Actually, this is quite warm compared to what we were involved in at home.  We like it. 


Q.  How have you guys handled it? 

JOSH HEUPEL:   First of all, this year we have been involved in a Championship Game, championship atmosphere already.  I think the team is very confident and realize we're going to get ready to play the game on January 3rd.


Q.  How beneficial has it been not having a game in the last month, for you to get healthy, for the team to get healthy?

JOSH HEUPEL:   I think it has been a long stretch.  We've played a lot of big games, and for us to get a little bit of a break, a breather, mentally and physically was important.


Q.  Has the preparation down here been like you thought, or do you notice your teammates a little more excited the closer game day gets?

JOSH HEUPEL:   I think everybody is excited about the game.  They have enjoyed their experience and they are going to be ready to play.


Q.  Did you imagine at any point before the season that you would be given this opportunity in the spotlight like this, having all the Heisman hype and to be in a National Title game? 

JOSH HEUPEL:   At the beginning of the year did I believe that was going to happen? 


Q.  Before the season? 

JOSH HEUPEL:   Before the season began, we thought we could be very successful, and we paid the price to have a chance to win.  Each and every week, we believed that if we went out and played our best football, we would be in this position.


Q.  How about any emotion  -- I know you're pretty much the guy on the field, but off the field, you are low-key.  This is your last football game.  Is there any emotion in that?

JOSH HEUPEL:   I don't get caught up in that.  I go out ask there and get myself prepared to play a big game and worry about winning.


Q.  How would you describe your two-year ride, though? 

JOSH HEUPEL:   It's been one of the most enjoyable things of my life.  I truly enjoy it.   It has been an honor playing at the University of Oklahoma.  Proud to be from Oklahoma now, and I'm excited about representing the University on January 3rd.


Q.  Your coaches, your staff, is sort of younger, a little more NFL experience.  Can you talk about that, especially with Coach Long, how has that helped you?

JOSH HEUPEL:   Those guys do a great job.  I don't think their youth is necessarily too important.  I think their excitement about the game, their enthusiasm about it going out there and coaching getting better each and every day are important.  Those are characteristics that those guys will have throughout their career.


Q.  What about Coach Long in particular, has he helped you? 

JOSH HEUPEL:   He's done a great job in the offense.  Because we lost Mike Leach, Coach Long has come in and helped us to grow and mature from a year ago. 


Q.  Any specifics that he had to  -- that he made you better at?

JOSH HEUPEL:   Well, he's done a great job with all of his quarterback techniques, a better job of understanding the offense, getting the better plays. 


Q.  Those last few games in the regular season, were you hurting at all? 

JOSH HEUPEL:   No.  Those things were blown out of proportion.


Q.  You came away with W's, but your statistics were down a little bit; did it bother you at all?

JOSH HEUPEL:   No.  Again, obviously, we would like to be more successful as an offense, but the thing we're concerned about is winning. 


Q.  Andre had said that you had helped him in a confidence problem a little bit about a summer or so ago.  What did you do with him and what did he lack? 

JOSH HEUPEL:   I don't think Andre lacked anything.  I think Andre has all of the tools to be a great player, and he is a great player.


Q.  What did you help him with? 

JOSH HEUPEL:   I don't think there was one thing that I helped him with.  I think Andre is probably giving more credit to me than I deserve.


Q.  Chris Weinke has said all year and to this day that the Heisman was never a goal; that the most important thing is that piece of hardware over there.  I assume you've got kind of the same slant on it? 

JOSH HEUPEL:   No one on this team cares about individual awards.  Not something that anyone needs to be concerned about.  That's the ultimate goal.  That's what we set out to do at the beginning of the year. 


Q.  Any sense that, you know, you'd like to get that and maybe prove a few Heisman Trophy voters that they goofed up? 

JOSH HEUPEL:   No.  Again the Heisman Trophy was something that I was not concerned about.  It was not a goal of mine before the season started.  My goal, our goal, was to win a National Title.


Q.  During that banquet circuit and the Heisman Trophy, was it kind of a feeling that  -- questioning that, well, maybe it should have been Miami playing Florida State in that game  --

JOSH HEUPEL:   People want to say that  -- I think if you go through a Big  12 confidence undefeated, you can win a Championship Game, you have done more than earn your way to a National Title.  And I think there's no doubt that we earned our way here.


Q.  Are you even slighted that there should be a debate about that?

JOSH HEUPEL:   I think the only time that people are talking about that is when you come up and ask that.  Nobody on the team is concerned about that.  We believe we belong here, and, you know, we'll be ready to play on January 3rd. 


Q.  Do you feel compelled to compete against Weinke in this game?  Is it you against him?

JOSH HEUPEL:   No.  It's not an individual match-up.  It's Oklahoma against Florida State.


Q.  You have a coaching staff here that is pretty young, 28, 29 and 30, some of those guys.  What do you like about working -- what are the positives of working with a staff that has got that much enthusiasm?  

JOSH HEUPEL:   They are very enthusiastic, very energetic.  But to say that that is because of their age would be a disservice to them.  Those guys are going to be like that, going to coach like that throughout their careers.  They are very understanding of the game, very knowledgeable, playing experience, as well as coaching experience. 


Q.  Gundy says he gets out there and throws it around with you, and he might say do it this way?

JOSH HEUPEL:   I don't know if he says that, but those guys are  -- they make the game enjoyable.  They make going off to practice every day enjoyable.


Q.  How about the relationship side of it?  Do you feel like you can actually talk to these guys and they might listen and know?

JOSH HEUPEL:   These guys all have open doors.  You're able to go and talk to them, and they want you to go and talk to them. 


Q.  People talk about your ability to make the big play.  What is it about that situation that you seem to thrive on? 

JOSH HEUPEL:   Well, I don't know if that's true or what it is.  I think preparation and opportunity, those two things combine, good things happen.


Q.  Derrick Gibson is quoted as saying you're not as fast as Michael Vick (ph); does that bother you at all?

JOSH HEUPEL:   No.  I'm not stupid, either.  I can sit there and watch that on film, as well.  (Laughs).  I'm not worried about what and what not I am as a quarterback.  I know who I am as a quarterback.  I know what I need to bring to this football team for it to be successful, and I'll bring those things on January 3rd. 


Q.  Their defense plays a style more where they do not blitz a lot, they kind of stay back and cover.  How is that for you?  How does that play against the way you guys like to play?

JOSH HEUPEL:   We don't care how a team plays.  We're going to go up there and execute, and if we execute and take care of the ball, we are going to be successful.


Q.  12-0, No.  1 in the nation, 12-point underdogs.  Should that make sense to anybody?

JOSH HEUPEL:   Doesn't have to make sense.  It really doesn't matter to us.  It doesn't matter to anyone on the football team.  We're going to go out there and play the best we can on January 3rd.


Q.  The Florida State guys can not even explain it.  I don't think anybody in this game is even looking at it?

JOSH HEUPEL:   I don't know that they have to explain it, either. 


Q.  Do you think we're making too much of the experience factor, the fact that they have been in the Championship Game the last two years in a row?

JOSH HEUPEL:   Obviously, they are experienced in this game, the National Title game.  They have not faced us in the National Title game; so it is a different scenario for them.  As far as not having experience, you know, we have been involved in a Championship Game already this year.  It was a not a National Title, but nonetheless, a championship-type atmosphere.  So we'll be ready.


Q.  This Media Day, all this attention, doesn't seem like that big of a deal to you guys?

JOSH HEUPEL:   No.  It's not what the trip is all about, and it is not going to help get prepared to play the game.


Q.  You talked to Chris Weinke a lot in the banquet circuit.  Talk about your relationship with him? 

JOSH HEUPEL:   Well, obviously he does a great job for the football team.  He's a great leader and makes great plays for them.


Q.  When you look at their defense, what impresses you the most?

JOSH HEUPEL:   I think what everybody sees in them, they are very athletic.  They don't give up a lot of big plays and they make good plays.


Q.  Does this weather seem anything at all like South Dakota?

JOSH HEUPEL:   I guarantee you it is nothing like South Dakota right now.  It is definitely something below zero right now.


Q.  When you were growing up, four, five years old, you used to watch film with your dad.  What was it about football and breaking down film? 

JOSH HEUPEL:   I answered that question earlier about being five years old and breaking down film.  I don't think I was breaking down film at five years old.  But it was time that I got a chance to spend with my dad, being around him and be around the game.  I got a chance to be around bigger kids.  That's how I looked at it back then, the athletes that were playing for him, which is kind of like a kid's dream come true. 


Q.  We asked a lot of Florida State players what a Sooner is, and they told me a dog and all kinds of other weird answers.  Can you explain what a Sooner is? 

JOSH HEUPEL:   I can't even explain what a Sooner is. 


Q.  How do you feel about playing in front of a Florida State crowd?

JOSH HEUPEL:   Well, we'll see who has the edge as far as the crowd goes.  But, again, we're not concerned about the crowd.  The crowd doesn't make plays on the field.  So once it crosses that other white line, it is all the same. 


Q.  Any other schools you were looking at besides Oklahoma?

JOSH HEUPEL:   The two schools I was looking at were Utah State and Mexico. 


Q.  Talk about their defense?

JOSH HEUPEL:   Very athletic, make great plays and do a great job covering people. 


Q.  What has this experience been like?

JOSH HEUPEL:   It's been a good time.  I got a chance to enjoy the city a little bit for a couple of days, look around.  And again, it's been business at hand. 


Q.  How do you feel about being the 12-point underdog in this game?

JOSH HEUPEL:   Again, that's not something we're concerned about or worried about.  If those people decide a football game, we'd be 7-4, 6-5. 


Q.  Is that a motivation to win?

JOSH HEUPEL:   No.  That's not a motivation.  The only motivation to me is the opportunity to win a National Title.


Q.  Is it true that you sent the film of yourself to Oklahoma? 

JOSH HEUPEL:   No. 


Q.  So they knew about you? 

JOSH HEUPEL:   Coach Leach now about me. 


Q.  What was it like playing quarterback in South Dakota with the weather there? 

JOSH HEUPEL:   It is something that you just grow up with, deal with.  Again, the weather there is a little bit different than what you see down here. 


Q.  You guys don't appear starry-eyed and gaga over there.  Where does that come from?

JOSH HEUPEL:   I think it's the personality of the team.  I think this team is a very poised, confident group, hard-working. 


Q.  Florida State, if they have an advantage, is it the fact that they have been in this game before?  Would you agree with that; do they have an advantage?

JOSH HEUPEL:   I don't necessarily think it is an advantage.  You know, we have been involved in a Championship Game already this year.  But once you cross the white lines, it is all the same.


Q.  Does it seem like you guys play better when you are in the underdog role? 

JOSH HEUPEL:   I don't know.  You'd have to look back  -- again, we don't even  -- I don't think this team even knows that it is an underdog or not.  We head into the game with the same mindset every week.


Q.  Did your mom fly out here or drive?

JOSH HEUPEL:   They actually flew down here.


Q.  What has the other Josh meant to this offense, the toughness, the combination of speed and strength?

JOSH HEUPEL:   Athletic.  Makes good plays.  Does a good job blocking.  He's a key for us. 


Q.  How have you physically prepared for this game?

JOSH HEUPEL:   Just the same way you do every week.  Go out and get yourself prepared the same as you would. 


Q.  What is the sense of last year, you guys were kind of pioneers having fun slinging a football in a conference, never seen anything quite like this before?

JOSH HEUPEL:   We enjoyed the offense because we were -- it was successful for us.  We were able to put up points.


Q.  Did you get a sense of one of the other coaches or players that they were just kind of like gawking, like what are these guys doing, we have not seen football like this?

JOSH HEUPEL:   I don't know if that is necessarily true.  You know, I think it was a little bit different than what the conference had seen in the past.  It's definitely the direction that the conference is heading in right now. 


Q.  Florida State DB's are shorter than most of your receivers.  Is that an advantage that you guys feel that you can take?

JOSH HEUPEL:   Those guys do a great job.  I don't think the height is a key thing.  I think, again, we've just got to make plays. 


Q.  Is there a sense or feeling that you or Chris, you have both taken unusual paths; it's pretty remarkable that both of you guys are in this game at this point in time?

JOSH HEUPEL:   I don't know about it is remarkable.  I think it is a testament of what people can endure or persevere.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT