SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 26, 2011
Lonnie Nielsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What you did think about the course today. Everyone everybody's saying it's soggy?
 LONNIE NIELSEN: It was for sure soggy. There was some holes where you had a tough time really finding any place really where you could hit the ball where it wasn't casual water. 
 A couple times we had to take it from the fairway into the rough to be able to play without casual. So glad we got it in. I'm glad I had an early time. I think we may have got the best of it. It's no fun for these guys sitting around all day and they're only going to get a half dozen holes in and then have to come out tomorrow and play 30. 
 So I think it's a break for us to play in the morning and glad to be done with a good round.

 Q. I think there's maybe only one player that's come in lower than you with a five. How do you feel now about your chances?
 LONNIE NIELSEN: Well I feel a little rusty. I actually haven't played a tournament for about two months. I'm coming off knee replacement surgery last summer, so I didn't play very much last year. And then I only played a few so far this year of the. 
 So the game's a little rusty, but it showed some signs of life today. I started off a little shaky with the driver, but then just really started to find my groove with that and I think if you can drive it in the fairway here you're going to get your hands on the ball and you should be able to hit some greens and shoot a decent score. And that's what I did today. So if I can keep that driver going I'll be in good shape.

 Q. Other than the rain, how did the course play?
 LONNIE NIELSEN: The greens are in amazing condition really, considering how much rain that we have had. They're putting true, they're very fast, even as moist as they are. Obviously everything was hitting and sticking right where you hit it, which makes things easier, but they're going to firm up if the forecast holds and we cone get much more rain. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT