FORD SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
July 15, 2006
Lonnie Nielsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVE SENKO:  Well Lonnie, thanks for joining us.  After 1 over, 73 on Thursday, you've come back with 13 under the last two days.  65, 66.  Maybe just talk about your day.
LONNIE NIELSEN:  All right.  I got a fast start.  Hit a driver wedge on the first hole about ten feet; made that for birdie, and pulled in about a 25 footer on the second hole.

So that's a nice way to start the day.  Missed a little bitty putt maybe no more than two feet on the 4th hole.  I thought it made it.  I don't know what happened.  Lipped it out anyway.  A little bit of a setback, but got a bounce back birdie on 5.  I thought that was the real key to the round.  When you get that shot right back it takes of sting out of it.

Had two beautiful shots on 7.  Knocked it on about 20 feet.  And 2 putted for birdie there.  Made a nice long one, about a 30 footer, on the 9th hole for birdie.

The back side started well.  I hit it in about six feet and but missed at 10, and maybe seven or eight feet, the exact same putt.  I learned from my mistake on the 10th hole, and probably hit the best putt of the week on 11.  Made birdie there.

14, I had a little    some trouble there.  My day started to turn around the other way on 13, really.  I hit every shot good on 13.  I hit a putt that I didn't think could possibly miss and somehow did.  Then I hit a 4 drive on 14 and hit in in the water.  Hit a wonderful third shot with a 5 wood from about 210 over all that water to about ten feet.

Hit that putt to exactly where I was looking and misread it.  Had about a 10 footer for birdie on 15.  Misread that one as well.  Hit it right where I was looking.  Hit one of my best irons of the week on 16 that just hit left of the flag and took a hard hop down this hill and made a tough up and down there.

It all turned around on 17.  Hit two nice shots just over the green, and hit an average chip a little too hard, but two hopped it right in the hole.  So made an nice eagle on 17.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
LONNIE NIELSEN:  The chip was only probably seven or eight yards, so 20 feet, something like that.
DAVE SENKO:  Questions?
Q.  (Inaudible.)
LONNIE NIELSEN:  Yeah.  I haven't done this before, so I'm a little bit out of my element.  But I made some swing changes here about three weeks ago that every day just seem to be getting a bit better.  At the start of this week I just felt like it was going to be my week.  I was so disappointed with my play on Thursday.  Got a bad start; was mad at myself the whole round until I padded one in the water on the 14th hole and made a double.

At that point in time I decided that I wasn't good enough to be made, and certainly am not good enough to overcome being mad.  My whole tournament turned around at that point, so...  always learning in this game.  Amazing.  Been playing for 50 years and you learn something every day.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
LONNIE NIELSEN:  Yeah, exactly.  And, you know, this game is all about attitude.  Life's all about attitude.  I haven't had the wrong one going for the first 14 holes.  Since then, I've been a little more carefree.  It'll be a challenge to do that way tomorrow, but I'm looking forward to it.  It's a great opportunity for me.  I'm not looking to change my life, but having a good day tomorrow would certainly make my life easier.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
LONNIE NIELSEN:  Well, I hit it in the    well, the first day and then today.  So I played that whole three over.  Hasn't been such a good hole so far, but I've played it well in the past.  The past couple years when I played here I played the hole well.  But those were probably the two worst shots of the week for me today, the drive and then the iron on Thursday.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
LONNIE NIELSEN:  It looks like it.  You know, I don't know that I've ever done that three days in a row.  Not sure I've done it two days in a row.  But I like the way the golf course is playing.  It sets up good for me.  There are very few shots here that don't look good to me.  If you stand up and the hole looks good to you you feel comfortable, and that's half the battle of this game is feeling comfortable.
DAVE SENKO:  Okay.
LONNIE NIELSEN:  Great.
DAVE SENKO:  Thanks Lonnie.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT