THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2013
Ben Stow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BEN STOW:  It's been an amazing experience.  Sometimes a
little frustrating, but absolutely incredible.  I've enjoyed every
minute of it, I can honestly say that.  Robert and Todd Hamilton
have been pleasant to play with.  It's been fantastic.
I've played some great golf.  I hit some of the best tee
shots I've ever hit in my life today.  I drove 12 and drove 15.
15 was like a 450-yard drive.  Just a few too many mistakes this
week.  I didn't position my ball well enough off the tee, I hit it
in the rough too many times.  And my approach play just wasn't
quite tidy enough.
I putted nice all week.  But overall, I'd say I'm a
little disappointed with my result, but as an experience and
what's happened to me this week, it's been one of best things I've
ever done.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
BEN STOW:  Yeah, I said to my caddie, I said, if we can
get around in 1-over, maybe 2-over, just to give myself a chance,
I didn't think my total, 7-over will make it, but just to give
myself a chance.  I just made a few too many mistakes on the back
nine and struggled at the start.
But just being out there, the atmosphere, watching these
guys play, hearing the roars, it's where every golfer wants to be.
It's what everybody aspires to.  And you can't be out there and
not enjoy it, really.  I'm 21, I've got plenty more Opens ahead of
me.  I'm going to take as much as I can from it, and I can
honestly say I loved every minute of it.
Q.  What are you going to do the rest of the weekend, then?
BEN STOW:  I said to my caddie walking down 18, I said,
Fred, what should we do tomorrow?  And he said, maybe we should go
and watch golf.  I said, we better stay and watch it on TV because
there's too many people to watch it here.
So I think we'll probably come in the grounds and have a
look around.  I'd like to watch Lee play.  But I think we'll just
chill out.  My girlfriend has come over for the week and she
hasn't seen my home, I picked her up from the airport and brought
her straight to Scotland.  I'd like to see if I can take her home
and show her around the hometown.
Q.  Rushmore has a lot to look forward to?
BEN STOW:  Absolutely.  I've got a lot of questions and a
lot of people are very proud of me when I get home.  But like I
said, it has been a little frustrating at times.  But I've really
enjoyed it, and hopefully I've held my head high throughout and
I've given rush more a great name.
Q.  What happens next for you?
BEN STOW:  I've got about five or six days off and off to
the English Amateur at Frilford Heath.  That would be nice.  I'm
looking forward to that.  I went to Tour school two years ago, and
I played first stage there and qualified for second stage.  So I
know that place a little bit.  I'm really looking forward to that.
I'll be guessing very similar to this, very bouncy.  And it's not
particularly long, so it will be lots of irons then.
Q.  What about long term?
BEN STOW:  Long term I'm going to finish college.  I'd
very much like to finish college.  A lot of people have asked me
if I'm going to turn pro, and I'm not going to.  I'm going to
finish college, I graduate Christmas 2014.
Q.  In what?
BEN STOW:  In communication leadership development.  It's
good.  It's a nice degree.  My plan is to go to American Tour
school in that last semester of school and see if I can get on
Web.com.  And if that doesn't work out I'll come home and go to
Tour school the following year over here.
Q.  Good luck, Ben, it's been a pleasure meeting you this
week.
BEN STOW:  Thanks.










END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT