NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BRUINS v PENGUINS
June 4, 2013
Sidney Crosby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What have you guys worked on since last night?
SIDNEY CROSBY:   I don't think it's anything to do with Xs and Os.   We didn't‑‑ we just didn't execute.   That's really what it came down to, and unfortunately we didn't give ourselves much chance to win that game.   We understand that.   But it's over now and we've got to find a way to win Game 3.

Q.   Were there physical mistakes? 
SIDNEY CROSBY:   I think mental.   I think that's a big part of the game.   Yeah, I would say (inaudible) looked at it enough to know that we didn't play well, we didn't deserve to win, and got to find a way to be much better.

Q.   Can you worry about why or do you have to move on to Game 3?
SIDNEY CROSBY:   I think you have to understand.   When you don't do things well you've got to (inaudible) but you definitely can't dwell on it.   Going into Boston we've got to find a way to win Game 3.

Q.   You said you were able to do this in '09.   What were you able to do to get back into the series?
SIDNEY CROSBY:   I think playing with that amount of desperation that you need going down 0‑2, you've got to make sure you bounce back and don't allow it to frustrate you, stick with what has gotten us here, and we believe that we still haven't played our best game yet, so we'll need that tomorrow.

Q.   After an overnight can you evaluate any further thoughts on your own game from last night, things you might do differently?
SIDNEY CROSBY:   You know what, it was just one of those nights.   I didn't do anything, didn't change anything.   I had the same mentality going in, and just felt like every time I got it the puck was bouncing or ended up giving it away.   It's not a good feeling, but at the end of the day those things kind of happen in this game, and it's not easy to explain, but you've got to make sure that you don't let it happen again.

Q.   Does it make it much more sweeter if you come back?
SIDNEY CROSBY:   Yeah, we have to at this point.   I think we can all look at our own games and evaluate them, but at the end of the day, it's what we're going to do here in the next little while that's going to decide the outcome of the series.

Q.   Are you guys at all beating yourselves as opposed to letting Boston take it to you?   Watching you in the Ottawa series everything seemed to go very well and last night just nothing seemed to go well for this team. 
SIDNEY CROSBY:   Yeah, I think last night we did.   I don't think Game 1 was different, but I think, yeah, last night we just‑‑ like I said, we tried to play catch‑up.   We got behind and tried to force things and ended up making it worse.   Definitely can't be doing that and making mistakes. 

Q.   Last year you guys had a very similar situation going into Philadelphia, felt like if you could just right things in that game maybe the series goes on.   What lessons do you take from that experience going into a very similar situation? 
SIDNEY CROSBY:   Just to stay with it.   You know, we had a ton of chances in Game 1.   We felt like we got to our game a little bit more.   We still feel like we can be better.   But no, I think that‑‑ and the last series frustration kind of kicked in, and I think we're much different, much more exposed, but I do believe in our game.   I don't see anything but our best in Game 3.

Q.   Is it strange that at this point of the season you have to remind yourself to trust what got you here? 
SIDNEY CROSBY:   No, I mean, I don't think‑‑ it's always easy to say that, it's another thing to do it, especially when things aren't going right or you're not getting bounces.   That's what you have to stick with it.   It doesn't make it easy just because you've done it before.   It's good that you know that and you trust it but it's another thing to go out there and execute.

Q.   When you left here last night what was it like for you, frustration, or what were the emotions?
SIDNEY CROSBY:   Frustrated.   I mean, I don't think anybody enjoyed‑‑ we gave them the game.   We didn't really do anything to give ourselves a chance to win.   It's tough to win in the Playoffs as it is, and when you give a team a game like that you feel terrible, and nobody had a good feeling about it, but came in here today and we know we've got to get ready for Game 3.   It's not going to (inaudible) we dissect it.   You can overanalyze it, we just didn't play well.

Q.   Along those lines it seemed like a lot of the practice was (inaudible) you guys had a couple laughs.   Is that something you also kind of need?
SIDNEY CROSBY:   Yeah.   We know that we've got to come in and get better and find ways to make little adjustments that we need to make, but we still feel like we can go in there and find a way to win.

Q.   Did what they did last night affect your guys (inaudible)?   Is that an area that needs to improve?
SIDNEY CROSBY:   I mean, now we're picking it apart.   It's a hockey game, and that's‑‑ I mean, that could have happened on one or two plays. 

Q.   Can't one or two plays make a difference in a series?
SIDNEY CROSBY:   I think it can.   I think it can make a difference in a game, absolutely in the Playoffs, but in a 6‑1 game we're still down 4‑1 if you take away two of those F3s.   I think we just got caught behind and we tried to force things. 
I feel like you take away a couple mistakes here, we still didn't do enough to win the game.   We can analyze little things like that, and those are big plays in the game, but we still allowed six goals.

Q.   The little joking around at the end of the practice, was that coach driven or player driven? 
SIDNEY CROSBY:   Yeah, it was just‑‑ yeah, nothing‑‑ I thought practice was pretty normal.   I didn't feel like it got any looser at the end or‑‑

Q.   Give me one or two things you guys think you can do better. 
SIDNEY CROSBY:   I think we can get a lot more offense (inaudible).   I feel like first game we did a little better job of that but still keep them in their end a little bit better.   I think with our game, just be a little bit more patient.   They're a team who's going to kind of wait for your mistakes, and I think we've made a little bit too many with the ones we've made.   I think we can just be a little bit more patient in our game.   We're both puck‑possession teams.   There's going to be times when they possess the puck.   It doesn't mean that they're necessarily carrying the play, they're just holding onto it, and we've just got to be a little bit more patient with our game. 

Q.   Do you just throw the game film in the trash can or can you learn something from it?
SIDNEY CROSBY:   I think you can always learn something, I think whether you win or lose you can always learn something.   But I think for whatever reason once we got down‑‑ when they scored that fourth goal to make it 4‑1 I felt like we just at that point started to play catch‑up and we were just trying to get all three goals in one shift it felt like.   You can't do that, especially against a team that thrives on mistakes like they do.   You can definitely learn from that, though. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT