NHL AWARDS CEREMONY
June 23, 2010
Sidney Crosby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Mark Messier Leadership Award   
   
  Q. Can you talk about Henrik?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, he had a great year. Nobody knew what to expect. I think everybody saw what he could do year after year, and this was really a big year for him. He showed it consistently. He was well deserving of it. He was there for his team every night.  
  
  Q. Are you disappointed not getting the Pearson Award?  
 SIDNEY CROSBY: No, I don't think disappointed. I think when you have the opportunity, I think now I realize it doesn't happen all the time. So when you're there, you have the opportunity and you love to be able to do it. But at the end of the day I don't think you're going to judge your season or change your opinion on things. At the end of the day we all play for the same thing and that is the Stanley Cup.   
 Having said that, I think I have a greater appreciation now playing five years you know, that it's not easy to win those things. When you have a great season like he did, it's rewarding to get it.   
  
  Q. (No microphone) the Mark Messier Leadership Award?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, I've met him a number of times previously. I said it tonight, but he's the guy you think of when you think of leadership and on and off the ice the type of person that he is. It's a real honor for him to select me for that award. I really appreciated it.   
 That's an area you're never really going to stop learning, but being a young captain, that's encouraging.   
  
  Q. Looking forward to next year? Do you think it will recharge and invigorate you?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, I hope so. Just thinking about it when we've had this time off, I don't remember having a full summer to get ready for a season. That's exciting. You can gain a lot over of the course of a summer.   
 For our team we had two previously long seasons before that, and another one this year with condensed schedules. So I'm excited to see our team with some rest and hungry.   
  
  Q. Did you make any changes in your style of game that resulted in winning?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, I tried to shoot the puck more. I think just trying to be less predictable. That's really always the biggest challenge is trying to keep guys guessing, and trying to develop other parts of your game that may not show point-wise, but eventually will help you offensively create things.   
 So you need some luck, too. I think anybody will tell you that you need some balances, and I've gotten some of those balances and worked hard for them.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT