NHL STANLEY CUP FINAL: PREDATORS VS PENGUINS
May 30, 2017
Sidney Crosby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
SIDNEY CROSBY: I think going over things, looking at what we need to improve on.  I think that's the biggest thing, just mentally kind of turn the page, get ready.   
 Q.  How impressive is it for this offense to be so explosive, with limited opportunities?  
SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, I mean, I think we create chances.  I think that depends on the game.  We found ways to execute.  I don't know if it was perfect.  We got a good bounce there on one of them, made a couple good plays.  You have to be able to do that sometimes.  We were able to do that last night.   
But we know that's not necessarily a way you want to play the game every night.   
 Q.  As much as people are trying to figure out how a team can win a game with only 12 shots on goal, they are also trying to figure out how a team holds the Penguins to 12 shots on goal.  What were they doing well?  
SIDNEY CROSBY: I think their goalie is really good at handling the puck.  You have to put the puck in good places to forecheck.  They've got some D that can skate themselves out of trouble.   
When I look at that, I think our forecheck has got to be a little bit better.  There were some chances we had that we didn't execute.  We missed the net or hit a skate on a pass that could have set up a shot.   
There wasn't a ton of chances both ways for long periods in the game.  It's going to be tight checking.  Got to find ways to make sure we get pucks on net.   
 Q.  How much has Kris been around you?  What effect does he have while he's been out?  
SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, he's been around a little bit more lately.  After the surgery, he couldn't do much for a while.  It's been great to have him back around the guys.  He's been real supportive.  I know it's probably not easy for him watching.  It's been great to have him around.  You can see his spirits are high.  He feels good.  That's the best thing we could see.   
 Q.  (Question regarding Pascal.)  
SIDNEY CROSBY: I think guys really rally around when guys aren't able to be in the lineup.  You see teammates that are so happy to be around, be a part of it as much as they can.  I think that's important.   
We got a good group of guys here.  I think we all like having him around.   
 Q.  What does Rick Tocchet bring to your team?  
SIDNEY CROSBY: A lot of things.  He's an emotional guy.  I think he brings a lot of fire as far as game to game.  And even in game he's really good at kind of making little adjustments.  He is a guy that played a pretty offensive role I think for forwards.  It's nice to have somebody seeing the game the way he does.  He's able to look at certain details, help guys out a lot there.   
 Q.  The pass that Kunitz makes last night, how amazing of a pass that was?  
SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, it was a great play.  I mean, usually guys are shooting when they get to that area.  He did a great job of keeping his head up.  I think he knew that Shears was going to find that open ice there.   
Yeah, it was a great look.  Big goal as far as kind of keeping that momentum.   
 Q.  Are you seeing a different level again from Chris at this time of year?  
SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, it's hard to say.  The way he competes, he always plays hard.  He always does those the things.  I think everyone's trying to raise their level.  But he plays such a high level every night, competes so hard, it's hard to imagine that he can.   
He's made some great plays for us.  He continues to just do all those little things, as well.   
 Q.  When you think of last round after Game 1, here the same thing, making adjustments.  Is it similar?  
SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, I mean, I still feel like both those times we were talking about how we felt our own game wasn't where it quite needed to be, too.  We tried to find that balance of making those subtle adjustments, but also knowing our own game has some work and we have to get that going, too.   
It's similar in that way.  But I think regardless of the outcome, you're always looking to make little adjustments from things you see, things that you can do better.   
 Q.  You played so much hockey in the last year, how difficult is it to keep the same level of motivation, play at the same high level?  
SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, I mean, I think everybody's in that situation at this point with a long season.  Some guys have played in different things.  It's been a little bit longer.   
But I think you just have to manage it.  It's not something you just start doing in the Stanley Cup Finals.  I think that's something as you move along throughout the year, you try to find days when you can rest so that when you get to that point, your body is in as good of shape as it can be.   
Sometimes it's nice, too, not to have too long of breaks, kind of keep going.  We've had that with us and our situation.  Yeah, sometimes it's better that way, to just keep going.   
 Q.  Do you pay attention to the analytics revolution?  
SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, I mean, it's part of it now.  I think it serves a purpose.  I don't know if it tells the whole story.  I think if there's certain things that you see or you evaluate things a certain way, sometimes that can confirm or deny what you're seeing out there.   
But, no, I think it plays a part.  I'm not probably maybe as big on it as some of the other people.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, I think when you're out there, when you watch it, it's two different things.  I think the biggest thing is it's such a small margin for error.  You're talking about five, six feet, getting it out of that trapezoid or in there when you can make a play.   
It's little skills, little details.  I think once you get out there at game speed, you're challenged a little bit more to make those good plays and execute properly.  So I think that's kind of where it stands out the most.   
 Q.  Why did you go out and skate today, Sid?  
SIDNEY CROSBY: I just felt pretty good.  You know, haven't been skating a lot on game days.  Sometimes it's nice.  They're not that difficult of skates when you only have a handful of guys out there.  You're able to touch the puck a little bit more.  Sometimes it's more beneficial I think to get out there for that.   
 Q.  Being around Jake, sitting next to him, how do you think he approached that whole drought?  
SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, I think he just stayed with it.  I don't think he got too frustrated.  I'm sure there's a couple that he wanted to see go in.   
I don't think he changed the way he played, or started cheating in areas.  He kept going to the same areas, kept competing.  If you continue to do that, eventually they'll go in.  He got a big one for us last night.   
I think he's quietly competitive, but I think he's shown a lot of poise, too.  You see the situations he's been thrown into.  For a young player, that's not always easy.  He's handled it well.  He's going through some things for the first time.  He's handling it really well.   
I think he's just kind of taking those early experiences and using it to that last series.   
 Q.  Pekka Rinne is 0-6-2 against you and the Penguins.  How do you explain that?  
SIDNEY CROSBY: I don't have a great explanation for you.  He's a great goalie.  He makes us work.  I don't think we pay attention to regular season records or things that have happened in the past.  We know, yeah, it's a difficult time this time of year no matter who you're playing.  Especially a guy like him.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT