NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HURRICANES v PENGUINS
May 23, 2009
Sidney Crosby
Evgeni Malkin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







SIDNEY CROSBY
  EVGENI MALKIN

 SCHUYLER BAEHMAN: Questions for the players. 

 Q. Evgeni, is this the best run you've had as a player, as an NHL player? Six multi-point games in the playoffs. Have you ever played better? 
 EVGENI MALKIN: Not so. I think like it's helped me because in the series we won those two games, and after I talk to my players, and they help me. And, yeah, I think it's, halfway, it's not bad now. 

 Q. Can you talk about your game now compared to where you thought you were at in the playoffs last year? You're making a lot more points. I'm just wondering if you feel your game is much different now than a year ago? 
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Not a whole lot. Just trying to capitalize on my chances and done a better job of that. 
 But as a team, I think each line has done a great job of producing a lot of momentum. When you put teams back on their heels a bit, and, you know, the line before you goes out there and has great shifts, you benefit from that. 
 Right now, I think that's why we're seeing all our success, is because everyone's helping each other in that way. Individually, guys are benefiting from that. 

 Q. Can you just talk a little bit about that last minute of the first period it really seemed to not only siphon the energy out of the arena, but it seemed to just take a lot of momentum away from any momentum Carolina had? 
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, I think we caught that line out there for a long time. So we were able to generate a lot down low. We were getting on pucks pretty quickly, and generating some good chances. 
 I think as a team, we pride ourselves in doing a good job, and playing well down there. Keeping the puck down there, and generating offense in the corners and recycling. So that's exactly what we want to do. 
 We didn't score, but sometimes like you said, you're able to gain momentum from shifts like that. So that's what we want everyone doing.

 Q. What about the two goals at the end of the last minute? 
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, those are big. You know, quickly like that, we get the lead and then get that third one. You know, you're on on the road, and they get the first one, and we did a great job of sticking with things you know, not accepting just one little lead, but Geno got a big one for us. 

 Q. Have you felt sort of a responsibility after the way last season ended to get your team to this point to be one victory away from getting back in that final series? 
 SIDNEY CROSBY: I don't think we've looked that far at any point, really. Obviously we know we have an opportunity now but I don't think we've let ourselves get that far ahead. We've been focused on what we need to do. 
 We had a similar approach last year, but this year, a little more experience helps. But at the same time, it's still hard work, and we're still not there. We're working hard, but I think we're just focusing on what we have to do right now at the present.
 EVGENI MALKIN: We are in the third game, and I think everyone wants to play the finals now. And because they've seen how great everybody really play hard. And we have focus for full 60 minutes. I think we have a good team, and everyone's playing well. 

 Q. It's sort of hard, last year in the playoffs, one of the two of you, one or the other was having a great game. Now every game is a double dose. Is that just familiarity, maturity? It's nonstop right now?
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, and like I said with his question as well. But everyone else provides a set opportunity to benefit. It's not going to be like that every night. We've been able to execute and do a good job. We just need to focus on doing what we need to do. We have great momentum, and hopefully we get rewarded for that. If not, the next line will do the same thing. 
 So I think it's just confidence, and everybody going out there and doing their job. Maybe it takes less pressure off one another in order to go out there and do that. But like I said, everyone's playing the way they are, and we're rolling lines, you don't put as much pressure. We don't force things. We're patient and we execute when they get the chances. 

 Q. Can you talk about that pass between the legs? How did you know that guy was there? 
 EVGENI MALKIN: Because it looked like by me and Indiscernible) going, and I know he's behind me, and I passed because he talked to me.

 Q. He talked to you? What did he say? 
 EVGENI MALKIN: Right here, free, free. 

 Q. Can you just walk me through your goal with Guerin? And just talk a little about what Billy brings when he's going well? 
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, he brings a lot. He wins a lot of battles. He's dangerous in the slot. He makes a lot of smart, quick plays, whether it be through the neutral zone or he passes towards the net there. The backhand pass is a tough pass to make. So he put it right on my stick, and I think that's a great thing with him. He brings a lot of different things. 
 His style of play is a little bit different. It might be tighter, might be a little more open. He's able to adapt to anything. He's a big, strong guy, and he's able to create a lot out there. 

 Q. Were you yelling free, free, too? 
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Not that, but whatever works, doesn't matter (laughing). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT