NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HURRICANES v PENGUINS
May 22, 2009
Sidney Crosby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   SIDNEY CROSBY: No, I think that's why we do it. Whether it's the goalie or their team, you know, we're hopefully going to wear teams down that way. You know, when a goalie's facing that many shots, eventually you're going to get rebounds that hopefully go your way. You're going to get breaks. So the more often you can do that, the better the chance you give yourself, and that's what we try to do. 

 Q. When you're in one of those games where you're getting up to 5 and 6 and 7, is it just easier to play? Just the mentality on the bench when you're sitting there? When you're part of it and watching goals go in like that, how nice is it to be a part of a game like that? 
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Well, it's tough. It's still a tie game or one goal game. You look at the quality of the two goaltenders. You look at Mark and Cam, these guys know what it takes to win. So they're able to erase or forget pretty quickly. 
 It's a 4-4 game. It's the same as being 0-0. They know they have to shut the door. It doesn't really enter through your mind. You just want to get the next one when you're going through a game like that. It doesn't have anything to do with the goaltending. 
 When you're trading like that, you just have to make sure you keep coming. Because when it's shift back and forth like that, it's almost like the last goal wins. We did a good job staying with it. 

 Q. Is that special sharing the playoff record? 
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah. I had no idea it was really kept track of. But everyone's got crazy stats now. So I'll take it, for sure. 

 Q. Is there a reason why you were able to start off games with goals?
 SIDNEY CROSBY: I have no idea. Maybe it's just a coincidence. You know, you always want to start well and set the tone, but it doesn't always mean you end up scoring on things like that. I've been fortunate enough to get some good looks pretty early on. And, you know, we just want to start well. 

 Q. Does that message sending stuff even work? When teams do that at the end of the game. The message sending, you know? Does that even make a difference at all? 
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Oh, a little bit. I mean, you want to make sure teams are aware you're not going to give up. And that you're going to on keep coming and things like that. It's not a huge thing, but, you know, it's something that can be a momentum shifter a bit.

 Q. Flowers asked last night how would you stop if you were an opposing Coach, Sidney and Malkin when you were playing at that level. He said I'd use my stick and make sure I hit it?
 SIDNEY CROSBY: On oh, great. 

 Q. When you guys are playing at such a high level, I mean, how can you be stuck, the two of you? 
 SIDNEY CROSBY: I think hopefully we help each other. When he's playing like that, I think, myself and everyone else wants to follow it up. And when we get two lines and even three the way we were going last night, everyone one was rolling. We were able to get that momentum and we could get shift after shift for teams and keep them on their heels a bit. That's what we want to do. Hopefully we can make it tough on them. 
 So with the more momentum everyone can gain, the better off it is for each guy. Because you're really putting teams back on their heels and it's tougher for them to bounce back. That is really the key is everyone doing it together. 

 Q. Speaking of momentum, talk about the four-on-three penalty kill for you guys? 
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, that was big. They called a timeout, and I think, you know, they wanted to rest there. And they knew it was a big point in the game. So they had a big kill. 
 Guys really stepped up, and that's been a big part of our game lately, so when you continue to come up with those big kills. 

 Q. How do you top what Geno did with that goal? 
 SIDNEY CROSBY: I don't know. That's a tough one to top. He's really taken it to another level. Coming in there last night and doing that in a tight game. That's a tough one to top. 

 Q. Is that one of those goals that even guys like you want to watch over and over? 
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, like I said, we kind of practice that stuff, but it's not too often you're actually able to do it, so. We'll see how he does it. And maybe he'll do it again. If not, somebody else will, hopefully. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT