NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: PENGUINS VS SENATORS
May 22, 2017
Sidney Crosby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Do you embrace the opportunity to get back and potentially do something that hasn't been done in years?  
SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, I don't think we can think that way.  We've just got to get a win.  I know it's going to be a tough one.  But I think everything else surrounding it is not really our focus.  We just have to make sure we play the right way and give ourselves a chance to get one there.   
 Q.  (Inaudible) second round you were leading 3-1 against Washington and forcing them to play Game 7 (inaudible)?  
SIDNEY CROSBY: I mean, you've got to learn from that, and I don't think our desperation was there, especially Games 5 and 6 of that series.  We have to learn from that and make sure it's there tomorrow night.  I think that it's something that in the playoffs you have to get better and better to improve, and that's one area we've got to make sure to improve on.   
 Q.  Since (inaudible), what have you guys sort of figured out about Ottawa and how to attack their defense?  
SIDNEY CROSBY: I think we've done a better job of playing on our toes and managing the puck.  Probably our fore-check creates a lot more.  Rather than spending time in our end, we've created more opportunities, and we've played a little bit faster and gotten some momentum.  (Inaudible) gotten a little too passive (inaudible) and we're making mistakes.  I don't think we've changed a whole lot.  Probably the only thing that really stands out is just getting the puck and being on our toes a little bit.   
 Q.  Sid, what can a 7-0 win do for you, and what do you think it can do to them?  
SIDNEY CROSBY: A win's a win.  It doesn't matter what the score is.  We've been on both sides of it before.  I think it's about how you play the next game, and I think we expect a pretty desperate group.  You don't get to the Eastern Conference Finals without having that ability to bounce back.  We know that tomorrow night's going to be their best game, and it's going to be our best as well.   
 Q.  Do you think momentum carries over?  
SIDNEY CROSBY: No.  I think with the situation both teams are in, I think both expect to play their best game regardless of the situation.   
 Q.  (Inaudible) you see it go in, right?  Does it give you confidence (inaudible)?  
SIDNEY CROSBY: I think there's been opportunities for us to shoot, and even that game was kind of a lopsided one, but I felt it gave us some chances.  I think it's a chance to build confidence, but it's always nice to see it go in for sure.   
 Q.  I mean, for you personally, does it (inaudible)?  
SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, it doesn't hurt.  Yeah, it doesn't hurt.   
 Q.  Your first two chances to close this out as a team, do you learn anything from those two that you'd like to put into tomorrow night?  
SIDNEY CROSBY: In Washington?   
 Q.  Yeah, Columbus and Washington.  Anything you didn't do in those games that you want to be extra focused on doing tomorrow?  
SIDNEY CROSBY: I think the most reason why with Washington is just our desperation.  You know that they're going to come out (inaudible).  So I think finding that within our group too, finding that sense of urgency, of desperation is really important.  You want to get off to a good start, and I think that will be kind of the key.   
We probably didn't do a really good job of that for a couple of games.  In Game 7, I think that was more the way we wanted to play, and that's something we can kind of build on.   
 Q.  (Inaudible), was that like that last year?  Has it been like that this season, these playoffs?  
SIDNEY CROSBY: I don't know.  I think we've done a good job just because maybe circumstances with different guys coming in and out.  I don't think you want to get caught looking too far ahead.  Guys are going to be missing extended periods of time.  We don't know who's in the lineup or who isn't.  Just kind of going game by game helps you focus.   
I think we evaluate our game pretty honestly regardless of a win or a loss, and even if we have won games, I think we're looking to improve certain things in games we've lost.  Maybe we've done some good things that we probably deserve better, but I think we always evaluate it the right way, and maybe that's something that could help with just consistency.   
 Q.  How do you do better than 7-0?  
SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, I think we can still improve on certain things.  There's always things that you can improve on, I think, over the course of a series.  The big thing is just seeing what gives you success and finding a way to do that consistently.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT