NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HURRICANES v PENGUINS
May 20, 2009
Sidney Crosby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Is there a benefit to have a little extra time to practice in a day like this, between games one and games two, and if so, what were you able to work on today? 
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, just adjustments. And nothing we really to go into detail about. But just adjustments you need to make, and you get a day off, and you get a day to practice and get ready and get sharp. So it's a good situation to be in.

 Q. You like that kind of schedule? 
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, like I said, it's an opportunity to rest and prepare at the same time. Usually when you have a day in between, usually it's an off day, and you go right into the morning skate and back into the next game. 
 So this gives you a chance to adjust, and we try to make the most of that. 

 Q. A lot of people talk about it seems that you guys play similar styles, but what do they do differently than you guys do? What do they try to do differently than you guys do? 
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Not a whole lot to be honest, I think. It's a pretty fair assessment that we play the same in all areas. You know, they try to be aggressive, and have that defenseman join the attack and really put pressure on their teams. So they try to create in the offensive zone and keep the puck down there. So there's a ton of similarities. You know, it's up to each team to get to their game the most.

 Q. You have a loose group, and then all of a sudden Scuds went down for a minute. Was there a moment to realize how valuable he is?
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, any time a guy goes down in practice, it's typical for guys to kind of wait and see. I mean, you don't want to see that. It's hard enough to stay healthy in the Playoff as they are. But when you start seeing that in practice, you hope it's not serious, and the good thing though is guys are practicing hard, and it's good to see. 

 Q. After the game you were talking about the puck management and the better play along the boards? Little things like that?
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, we need to make sure our details are focused on a little better. You know, a lot of that has to do with, you know, both blue lines making sure we win our battles there. Executing. There are going to be chances to make plays, and we've got to make them. They're not going to give up a whole lot. So execution is more important than ever. 

 Q. Dan has only been a head coach since you started the year. If you look at how controlled he seems to be to have a lot of conviction and confidence in his approach. The team obviously is responding to his style. What makes him so ready for such a big stage right now? 
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Oh, probably have to ask him. But I think from the players' point of view, any time you see that consistency, I think you feel that, too. You realize that if he brings that confidence, so should we. And we have a lot of belief in the way we play as well. 
 So you always look to the Coach as a leader. He's done a great job of that. I mean, he's preached the same things over and over again. Hasn't swayed away from, you know, what we learned here since day one. So that's important. 

 Q. Why does it work so well at this stage?
 SIDNEY CROSBY: It's hard to say. I mean, it gives D an opportunity to probably get a breather once in a while, which is, I'm sure, nice for them when they need the opportunity. And talking about power plays and penalty kills and things like that, there's a lot of times that comes in handy. 
 You know, for forwards, having one less guy, you know, of the guys who we're probably seeing a little bit less ice time before are probably getting in there a little more often. So they're able to get in the game a little bit more. 
 There's always a risk, too, you take with that. With forwards, having one short, but at the same time, guys are able to get into it a little bit more and that's helped.

 Q. Do you like the (indiscernible)?
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, I don't mind. It depends on how the game goes. And it's always a Coach's feel. Depending on special teams and things like that. But for us, the more often we can get everyone rolling and everyone into it, the better we play. And we have confidence in everybody to be out there. So that's a big thing.

 Q. Carolina is the team that gets better as the series goes on, and they make adjustments. What do you expect they might do in Game 2 that they didn't do in Game 1? And talk about their grit and their ability to come back a little bit? 
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, I don't think they want to change a whole lot. You look at the game, it was pretty evenly matched. You know, we carried momentum for some of it. So did they. I'm sure they'll make a little bit of adjustments just like we have to. Nothing major though. 
 I mean, you get to this point, and you don't change had everything after just one game. There's little adjustments to be made. And for sure they have a great work ethic and depth, and they come at you every shift. So we like to pride ourself in the same mentality. You know, that's the reason for both teams getting to this point.

 Q. Can you talk about your line? Why is it working? 
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Oh, I think we've tried to be successful, and really any type of situation. There's games where you're going to have to battle down a little bit more and create from the offensive zone. There's other games where you might not get a lot of time down there, and you have to create more off the rush. 
 So I think we've just been focused on being in the right place and executing and it comes down to execution. Hopefully with everyone we have on that line, we can make things happen. But when we do, we've got to execute, and we have done a good job of that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT