NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HURRICANES v PENGUINS
May 19, 2009
Sidney Crosby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. A quick comment on the how they dealt with you last night. Somewhat frustrating, two shots on net in the third.   
 SIDNEY CROSBY: I mean, it's playoff hockey. It's gonna be tight. You know, they did a good job. They're a team that pressures a lot, pressures the puck.   
 Last night, we needed to execute better. That's what it comes down to. We execute a bit better, we'll get more opportunities.   
  
  Q. Did you find it physical out there? A couple of their players were rough.   
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Nothing out of the ordinary. It's the playoffs. You expect to be physical. Nothing out of the ordinary, no.   
  
  Q. With you and Washington, punch, counter-punch, serve, return of serve. This was more about waves of momentum. Are you kind of expecting it to go like that with this series? Anything as far as their dynamic goes led you to believe this is something we could see for best of seven?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, they have depth. You know, each line tries to accomplish the same thing. They try to get the puck down low. They have some big bodies on their team that do a great job of protecting the puck and creating things.   
 They have a lot of speed. You combine that, it's a challenge to play against. So, you know, when you look at the last series, you look at probably two lines that looked to do a lot off the rush and things like that, and another two that played more simple games. I think through their whole lineup, they're a lot more consistent in the way they play.   
  
  Q. You talk about rough bodies in front of the net, physical. If Ruutu and Cole can't go because they are injured, that would give you an opportunity.   
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, they're big parts of their team. But, you know, if anyone realizes that situation, it's us. You know, we realize that when guys aren't able to play, other guys step in and take that responsibility by themselves to really step up. That doesn't change anything as far as the way we play.   
 So, you know, we'll see what that brings. But that's not really something we're going to worry about.   
  
  Q. You said you need to execute better. You still had a decent amount of shots on goal. You mean execute to get better shots or...   
 SIDNEY CROSBY: No, she was asking me about me personally, our line generating better offense. I thought we had some chances for odd-man rushes or chances to make plays in their zone. We didn't execute. But as a team, I thought we could have done it a little bit better. But for the most part we did what we wanted to do.   
  
  Q. Do you like those challenges, to see that maybe your line wasn't producing like you wanted, but to find a way for the next game to make sure it's gonna work?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah. I mean, that's part of playing the game, part of learning and adjusting. You know, like you said, that's a fun part of the challenge. You know, you got to find ways to be successful. There's different ways to do it. But, you know, that's a fun part.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the consistency of the power play the last little while, talk about what's changed with that?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY: We haven't changed a whole lot. You know, we try the same things. You know, for us we just want to make sure we stick with what works. Sometimes you look at last night, we probably had the first couple that were pretty tough, but we stuck to things, didn't waiver away from what works. We found a way to get a big one there late.   
 It's always about coming back and gaining momentum. That's what you want to do with your power play. So I think we can just focus on doing that, not so much worried about the results, but just doing the right things. We've been rewarded for that.   
  
  Q. You mentioned their depth. Talk about your team, Satan, Boucher, key roles in the last few games.   
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, that's huge for us. That's the only way you can win. You need everybody contributing. That doesn't always mean with goals or points, everyone has to know their role out there. But they have to contribute in a way.   
 We've been able to do that. We need to continue to do that.   
  
  Q. Did you learn anything about the team after Game 1 that you didn't know going into Game 1?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY: As far as us or Carolina?   
  
  Q. About Carolina.   
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, no, I think we had a lot of respect for their depth and their speed. They're a hard team to play against. They force the puck. I think they're everything we expected.   
 You know, it's gonna be a good battle. You know, we still think we can play a little bit better.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT