NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HURRICANES v PENGUINS
May 17, 2009
Sidney Crosby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How comfortable are you with the thought that this team could play and play well with or without Sergei Gonchar in the line up?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY: We're confident. We've had to do that in the playoffs and the regular season. So guys have stepped up in his absence, and, you know, that's what you need.   
  
  Q. I guess it's going to be nice to see him on the ice practicing, looking like there is a possibility, good possibility that he will play?  
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, definitely. When he came back in Game 7, that was a big boost for us. We see right away that he makes a big impact on the game, even if he's not at 100%.   
 So that was big for us, and we're happy to have him.   
  
  Q. What is the emotional kick starter for this series? You know Phillie was Phillie, Capitals was you against Ovechkin right or wrong. What gets your blood going when you get ready for Carolina?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY: A chance to go to the Stanley Cup Final. Can't be motivated because of that, then you've got problems. So we don't have the story line or the rivalry, per se. But these are two teams who want to go to the same place, so that's enough right there.   
  
  Q. How about compared to where you were last year when you went to the conference final and where you're at now. How much more do you think you've been tested, maybe not by having overcome losses of the but it seems like last year it took almost to the Stanley Cup final before you guys hit some sort of road block?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, we've had some challenges and gone through different things. I look back to last year, and pretty much every game we really played well in the playoffs. We found a way to win.   
 There's been times in these playoffs where we've played some good hockey and haven't gotten breaks. That can be frustrating and that can force you to change things. But I think we've really stuck by what we need to do to play well and to be successful. And going through those things builds confidence for sure.  
  
  Q. Does this prepare you for this?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY: I think so. You see the results of staying with it and moving on. But also, you know, we've missed Gonchar, and Fleury had to steal games and things like that. These are things that need experience.  
  
  Q. Your goalie really kind of flew under the radar in the first two rounds. He was steady but no big story lines about him. Is that calming as a group of players knowing that he's just there and that's his role?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, we know he's going to make the big saves when he needs to. He has that feel. He knows when that time is, and you look back to last game, and he makes the breakaway save, and that probably changes the whole momentum of the game.   
 So, you know, we don't take it for granted. But we realize that he's going to be steady for us.   
  
  Q. And Ward is pretty steady on the other side, too, just your thoughts about getting past him?  
 SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, he's consistent. You don't get this far without having good goaltending, so there are things you've got to do against every goalie to make it tough. Get pucks out of him, and test them. And get as much traffic as you can. You can ask any goalie that's tough to deal with.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT