NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE MEDIA CONFERENCE
July 10, 2007
Sidney Crosby
Ray Shero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  FRANK BUONOMO: Hi, everyone.  We appreciate everybody joining us today.  Obviously too bad we're not all in the same location, but this hopefully will work to get everything done that we need to get done here today.   
 Obviously, as everyone knows, we made an announcement this morning that Sidney Crosby has signed a five-year contract extension with the Pittsburgh Penguins.  Sidney will play his of 2007-2008 season under the terms of his original entry-level contract.  This contract will begin the 2008-2009 season and keep Sidney with the Penguins through the 2012-2013 season.    
 At the present time we have Sidney Crosby on the line, as well as General Manager Ray Shero.  And we'll open the floor to questions for both parties.  Hopefully we'll keep this around 15 minutes or so, and we appreciate everyone's participation.  At this time we would like to open the floor for questions.    
  
  Q.  Sidney, it's been reported that you're average salary per year is 8.7 million.  How might this change your life and is there any significance to the 8.7 with you?    
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  Is it going to change my life?  I don't think it will change it a lot, I don't think.  Obviously it's a lot of money, but at the same time my attitude or how I approach things I don't think is going to change.   
 As for the 8.7, it seemed like a pretty good number.  I was happy with that, just thought it was kind of unique, so I was happy with that.    
  
  Q.  What is your sense of relief that you don't have to deal with this now for a long time, that you're in Pittsburgh and you're not going to be going anywhere?  How comforting is that to you?    
 SIDNEY CROSBY: It feels great, especially with the group of guys we have.  It's good to know I can grow with these guys and spend a while with them, it's exciting.  It's a great place and I really enjoy my time there.  The security definitely feels good.    
  
  Q.  As a follow-up to Ray, how long had this been in the works and what was it like hammering it out?    
 RAY SHERO: As of July 1, we had discussions with his agent and of course, with Sidney, and it wasn't that difficult because you had a guy, Sidney Crosby, who is willing to do a deal like this.  And the five-year extension is huge for our organization, and having him for six years, and we resigned Ryan last week for six years.  And in my opinion, when you're dealing with the best player in hockey, negotiation took a little bit of time, but everything was very amicable and cordial.  We had common ground, and a lot was due to Sidney's attitude and his desire to stay in Pittsburgh, so we're very happy.    
  
  Q.  Wondering if you could just give us a quick comment in French for hockey friends in Quebec.    
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  (Answered in French.)   
  
  Q.  Ray, was there any aspect of these negotiations that was particularly difficult or easy compared to most, and is there any significance to the way you structured the money?    
 RAY SHERO: It wasn't that difficult, No. 1.  You know, from our standpoint, we tried to do an extension.  We have to keep in mind that Sidney didn't have to do anything.  He could have played on his contract for next year and we could have been at the next number, but it was his strong desire to stay in Pittsburgh, and it's obviously our strong desire to keep him here as long was we can.  I think the five-year extension answers both things.  The way it was structured, there really is no -- it ended up 8.7, and Sidney already referred to that.  Maybe there is some significance to that number.  We're very happy with it, and we're happy he's on board for at least six more years, and hopefully his entire career, so it was a great first step for us.    
  
  Q.  Sid, obviously you could have pushed for the individual cap.  You chose not to do that.  You gave up one year of your unrestricted free agency.  Talk about your decision to do that.  Were you trying to think about making sure you're going to be surrounded by talent and your commitment to Pittsburgh?    
 SIDNEY CROSBY: I think it was important to do what I think was right for everyone.  I tried to find that balance.  There were a lot that went into that, but I think it's fair for everyone.  Ray has got the tough job of keeping the team together.  I think we all want to be there and hopefully it's a step in the right direction.    
  
  Q.  Ray, could you address that same issue with regard to how it helps the Penguins that you do have Sid locked for an extended period, it isn't for the individual cap which gives you a little bit more flexibility than I think a lot of people thought you might have.    
 RAY SHERO: I think projections I've done with Sidney are at the max, because you never know what was going to happen.  To me, his ability to give back and leave some on the table where I think it's great for him, and the first negotiation here.  And certainly, you know, the contract itself, it's about -- you know, Sidney is interested in winning the Stanley Cup, he's interested in winning in Pittsburgh.  It's a great first step, obviously.  The cap goes up over the next five or six years, whatever percentage it's going to be, it's certainly going to leave that much more room to do some other things, to help surround him with the proper people and talent in which to try to win that Stanley Cup.  I think it's a great Sidney, for the City of Pittsburgh and our franchise and ownership group and for management, we're very thankful and we're happy to have him signed up again.    
  
  Q.  You guys are finally going to come to Vancouver and Western Canada.  Are you looking forward to that, A; and B, would you like to see the schedule change so you can come to Western Canada more often?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  Yes, I enjoy playing in Canada.  It's always fun and it's a unique atmosphere.  I think anywhere in Canada you can say that, no matter where it is.  As far as the schedule, like I said, it's nice to have the atmosphere.  I like to play everywhere, but if it doesn't make sense, maybe you shouldn't do it either.  As a player, you play where the schedule tells you and where it dictates.  And I think that in my case I don't really question it because I'm sure there is a reason behind it and I'm sure it has been well analyzed.  I think as a player, you just play where you're dictated and that's fine.   
  
  Q.  Can you give us a scoop?  Has Ray given you a peek at the schedule and when you are going to be coming out to Western Canada?    
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  He hasn't, but I would like to see it, definitely.  It's always enjoyable to take a peek at that and see where you're going to be.    
  
  Q.  Ray and Sid, obviously this was done with an eye toward the future, as well as locking up Sid long-term.  Can you address what's going on with the Penguins since the end of the Ottawa series and how you think the team has improved in the off-season?    
  
RAY SHERO: I think a lot has happen since we lost Game 5 against Ottawa.  It's been the reflection of watching a real good Ottawa team go through some pretty good clubs, all the way to the Stanley Cup Finals, and then feeling actually good about what we accomplished during the season and the experience we had against Ottawa.  I believe it's been a really good first step for our group.  We came a long way in a year.  A lot has to be done.  Next year will be more difficult for us.  I think with the additions here to our group, with Sydor and Sykora and Dany Sabourin, and bringing back most of the same group with Roberts and Recchi and just getting a year under their belt.  I think we're well positioned moving forward and we're set up for the season.    
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  I would agree with that, as well.  Obviously we learned a lot in that one series and probably felt a little better seeing Ottawa do as well as they did.  As players, I think we're going to come to camp with the same mentality we had last year, and that's with something to prove.  We know that there's going to be no surprises.  I think teams will have us on our radar more.  But definitely with the acquisitions with Sykora and Sydor and Sabourin, we're going to be stronger and expectations are going to be high, but we have to expect a lot of ourselves.  I think we're really happy with our position.    
  
  Q.  Sid, the question I have for you, and I know Ray said that he projected the max when he was working the numbers.  Did you have to take into consideration at all what your contract meant to the Players Association in terms of setting the bar for the best player in the game, or was this just strictly from a Penguin perspective.    
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  I think it was a little bit of everything.  Obviously I'm part of the NHLPA, so that's taken into consideration.  I don't think I've closed any doors as far as that's concerned.  There are a lot of great players, and in a different scenario, they might want more, depending on what the cap is and stuff like that.  I definitely don't think I closed any doors in that way.  There are a lot of thoughts that went into it, though, like you said.  The other day I just tried to do the right thing, and I think that was fair for everyone, and I think I was able to do that.    
  
  Q.  Ray, just wondering, has Sid's status change?  Do you seek him out for advice on getting players?  And if the answer is what I think it is, Sid, do you like that role?    
 RAY SHERO: From my standpoint, I talk to Sid throughout the course of the year on some things, whether it's about our practice facility, no different than I would do with some of the other players and coaches, obviously, and certainly they have insights, and I believe give and take is always healthy and that's part of the communication and mutual respect, and I think that's worked out so far so good.  The way it is with free agency now, he's there when we're talking to free agents.  And for me to ask Sid to pick up the phone and give somebody a call, I think goes a long way, no different than we had Gary Roberts and Recchi over the course of this summer.  We talked to a few players and that's part of the organization in trying to get players.  I'm for empowering the players, and communication.  At the end of the day, obviously the decision rests with the manager, but I think that's healthy.    
 SIDNEY CROSBY: I definitely don't mind having that responsibility.  It's a pretty easy sell.  To be honest, I think a lot of guys realize when they're looking from the outside in, we have a great group of guys, a young team that's full of energy and a great organization.  We're heading in the right direction.  I don't think it's a hard sell, but by no means do I mind doing that.  That's fine and I'm happy to do it.    
  
  Q.  What will you do to celebrate this contract, Sid?    
 SIDNEY CROSBY: I don't have anything planned.  I'm going to spend time with my parents here tonight.  It's been a busy June, so July will be a good month for me to relax, but no plans really.    
  
  Q.  Ray, these are more for you.  How has this ability to lock up cornerstone players like Ryan and Sidney a sign that the lockout worked?    
  
RAY SHERO: All we're dealing with is a new collective bargaining agreement, and there is a lower level of free agency now, so with Ryan Whitney, for instance, we locked up three years unrestricted.  With Sidney we locked up one year unrestricted.  We're dealing with the CBA as written.  And from Sidney's standpoint there is a maximum 20 percent with a cap, and he was willing to take less than that, as the team player he is, to try to help in other areas moving forward.  We're dealing with CBA as we are today, and I think being able to lock up these younger players is a great first step for our franchise.    
  
  Q.  Getting those two guys signed the way you did, is it now a realistic option to think that if you choose to be the case, you can keep the so-called big five together through the next six years?    
 RAY SHERO: You know, I don't have the crystal ball, number one, but certainly by Sidney doing this for a five-year extension, a six-year deal, that's the idea of maintaining our flexibility of moving forward and see how the team performs over the next few years.  By having Sidney signed and Ryan signed, we have the table set here for a couple of these guys and we'll see where it goes moving forward.    
  
  Q.  Sid, as the captain and now a gristled veteran, you've got the No. 1 draft choice, Angelo Esposito coming in, have you talked to him yet, and talk a little bit about how you can make his first training camp a little bit easier.    
 SIDNEY CROSBY: I just talked to him actually the day of the draft.  He seemed really excited.  I think it was maybe a little bit of a tough day up to that point for him, seeing those teams go by, but I really think he's very happy with the position he has with us, and we're very happy we were able to get him.  A few guys on our team have been through similar situations, so hopefully camp will go easier, I'm sure, guys like myself and Staal, all these guys who have come in and been in a similar scenario can help him out, but we definitely have the right group to come in and feel comfortable.  I think it will be fine.    
 FRANK BUONOMO:  I would like to thank everybody for joining the call.  I would like to thank Ray Shero and Sidney Crosby for their time.  Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT