NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
January 24, 2007
Sidney Crosby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SIDNEY CROSBY:  21 goals or something like that.  It would be nice to get one, especially playing with the guys I was with.  We had a few chances; didn't work out.   
  
  Q.  You had a long week.  Three days but you did a ton of things.  Would you like next year's All-Star game maybe do a little less away from the ice or just play the game?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  Maybe a little bit.  I know how important the game is.  It's an enjoyable experience.  I'm not going to complain about anything because it's a great experience.  I think the best part, we just get a chance to meet the guys and just share the ice with them a bit.   
  
  Q.  What did you learn from that ability to meet them over three days and get to know what your peers were like at this elite level in the NHL?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  Just the professionalism.  You play against these guys, you battle with them.  You get to know them, they're just people and they carry themselves with such class.  Great role models with everyone.  I think it's pretty proud for every player to be here.  But it's part of the way people handle themselves as well.   
  
  Q.  What it was like to be next to Alex?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  It would have been nice to set him up, couldn't get him the puck too often.  Hopefully we get another crack at it and see what happens.   
  
  Q.  How did it compare with what you thought this game was going to be like?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  It was fast.  I thought guys competed pretty hard for an All-Star game.  Sometimes it lacks intensity, but I thought guys were moving their feet and a few times you could see people were overpassing and things like that.  But besides that, I thought it was a great work ethic by everyone.   
  
  Q.  With the grind of the regular season, you have to have fun out here obviously, but the guys you're compared to, Gretzky, four goal games in All-Star games, do you look at that and say that's something you have to do one of these days?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  I wouldn't put that pressure on myself.  It would be nice, no doubt.  But I hope to get another crack at it.  We'll see.  But it would be nice having a night like that for sure.   
  
  Q.  How'd you like the new jersey?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  Felt good.  I thought first period you could feel it a little bit, but after that it felt comfortable and obviously could tell everyone is not soaked out there.  So that's a nice feeling out there too.   
  
  Q.  How do you get used to the style?  You can't play 100 percent play the game you're used to playing.  Did that take away anything?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  I think you are a little bit on your heels.  You don't want to hit guys.  You don't want to put your stick up in a guy's face.  Not that you want to do it in a normal game, but it's a little bit more intense and probably takes a little bit of time to get used to.   
 But it's fun out there.  You see those plays and you're seeing on the bench, seeing Sakic, these guys are ripping it up and it's fun to see.   
  
  Q.  Sidney, I don't know if you're aware of this, but Gretzky also went pointless in his first-ever All-Star game (inaudible)?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  Makes me feel a little bit better.   
 (Laughter.)   
Q.  I guess it shows that come back and --   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  Yeah.  Maybe I'll sleep easier tonight.  When there's that many goals you think you could get in with one with the amount of talent that's out there.   
 But like I said, it's an honor to be here no matter what happens and just to be around the guys and experience the whole thing was great.  And hopefully, like I said, we can do it again.   
  
  Q.  We're staying over.  Are you going to skate tomorrow or are you going to take a day off?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  I'm going to skate.  Three days not doing anything.  Got on the ice with the skills competition there.  But obviously when you have a break like this and then every game means so much after tonight, it's important to make sure you're ready.  So try to find some ice tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Playing a game that actually counts (inaudible) out there again?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  Yeah.  I mean for sure.  But that's a nice break.  I think everyone tries to utilize it to get that second win for the second half and hopefully guys have done that and we're able to come back just as friends and finish.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible)?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  Probably tonight.  I mean, just getting out there and finally playing was nice.  The skills competition was great to be able to go there and score a few shootouts, I've had some problems lately.  Hopefully that will build the confidence for the second half.  Any time you run the guys and things like that, that was probably the most fun.   
  
  Q.  A lot was said about competition (inaudible) and (inaudible) in the first period looked like he was looking for you with the puck all the time?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  I think we were both looking for each other.  That happens in these games.  You compare it a lot to your play for Team Canada, things like that.  You want to try to set up the teammates, have some fun with them.  Sometimes you overpass.  It's not a typical game.  A lot of guys get caught doing that.  And maybe we got caught doing that too much too.   
  
  Q.  (Question about Gretzky.)   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  Just now.  Definitely makes me feel a little bit better.  But I'm not worried about scoring four, doing the things that they did.  But it would be nice to get one eventually.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible)?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  He drove the net hard.  I saw Ovechkin, going hard had a couple chances too.  He's a great sniper, he knows where to go.  You can't really teach what he does.  So it's fun to see him out there and the privilege of playing with the world championships too.  And his game is always the same.  It's hard (inaudible) score.   
  
  Q.  When was the last time you saw a pace like that, even for a short time in another All-Star game?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  Honestly, I've watched All-Star games and I know it's been a couple years since there's been one.  But I was pretty impressed with the way guys are skating.  Guys weren't just out there for a Sunday skate.  They were out there trying to impress people and make sure that people that came weren't disappointed.  I think they did that.  It was an exciting game to see.   
 MODERATOR:  Thank you everybody.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT