NHL ENTRY DRAFT
July 30, 2005
Sidney Crosby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  You can maybe tell us what you did this morning.  What was your routine like?  What was it like leading up to the moment that your name was called?  What did it feel like to finally have it happen?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  Pretty much typical morning.  Got up and I had a workout.  Jack Johnson is my roommate, so we just headed down to the gym and had a workout.  After that we had breakfast.  We had breakfast with my family and just kind of relaxed.  After that, it was pretty much just getting ready for this.  You know, I was happy I wasn't sitting there too long.  The nerves were starting to come.   
 But it was a good feeling.   
  Q.  Everybody talks about you as the potential savior of the NHL, a guy that's going to bring the fan base back and a lot of excitement into the game.  Do you feel that you are that kind of a savior?  What kind of pressure does it feel to have the spotlight on you like this?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  To be honest right now I don't know.  I think I have to wait until I get there.  For me, my main goal is getting to the NHL, and after that worry about where I stand and what I want to be.   
 My short-term goal right now is to play in the NHL next year.  You know, as for the feeling I have about that, I look at it as a challenge.  I'm not going to put too much added pressure on myself.  I want to play NHL, like I said.  After that I can worry about, you know, things beyond that.   
  Q.  What did Mario say to you up there on the podium, if anything?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  He just said, "Congratulations.  Enjoy it."  That was basically it.  That was basically it up there.   
  Q.  Plans after this is all over?  We heard you may be going somewhere, doing something special.   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  No.  I'm going to LA to skate and get ready for World Junior camp.  Nothing beyond that.   
  Q.  There's been a lot of talk about what the NHL needs.  Just wondering what kind of player you'd like to be on and off the ice?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  On the ice, I think I want to be someone who makes things happen offensively.  Definitely have to be a well-rounded player to play in the NHL today.  That's something I've got to make sure I am.   
 Off the ice, just, you know, someone who is respected.  Obviously I'm going to be young, I'm going to be a rookie.  I'm going to try to learn as much as I can and just be someone who is open-minded and be a student.  Hopefully if I have the opportunity to play in Pittsburgh next year, I'm going to learn from one of the best guys in Mario Lemieux.  I'll try to be a sponge in that way and learn as much as I can from him.   
  Q.  You pretty well knew this is the way it was going to happen, Pittsburgh was going to call your name.  Did the moment of hearing your name called and pulling the jersey over your head, did it live up to what you hoped it would be?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  Yeah, definitely.  It was different.  I remember watching it on TV all the time, and I was in it.  It was a different feeling.  It was definitely special.  You see so many guys go through that.  To be in it and be part of it, it was a great feeling.   
  Q.  You've talked about the possibility of moving in with one of your teammates, which is going to make your rookie year special.  Has that invitation finally been made?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  I haven't talked about it a lot, but if it's there, I'd gladly take the offer, and it's something that I wouldn't reject at all.  To be around someone like that and learn, you know, that's a great opportunity.  I'd love to have the opportunity to do that.   
  Q.  How different a feeling is this having it here compared to having it in the arena?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  It's a little different, obviously, get all the families jammed in the room.  You can tell everyone is nervous.  You know, it's a little bit different.  It's just on a smaller scale.  I guess that's what you have to realize, just not as many families, not as many players.  The tables are a little smaller.  But it's just basically the same thing, but on a lower scale.   
  Q.  You mentioned sacrifices your parents made.  I'm wondering how much you think about them today.  What sort of sacrifices are you talking about?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  Well, a day like today, you know, you remember the early mornings.  Definitely I can remember they had to take on an extra job just so I could keep playing hockey.  We did things just like that so I could continue to play a game I love.   
 This is something I guess that makes them realize it was worth it, to see me have the opportunity to play in the NHL.  It makes those things all worth it I think on a day like this.   
  Q.  What are your plans for the rest of today to celebrate this?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  I'll probably spend some time with you guys for the rest of the day, but after that I plan to spend some time with the rest of my family.  It's a big day for everyone.  I just want to spend time with them and, you know, just enjoy it.  It's not a day that comes around all the time.  It's a once-in-a-lifetime thing.   
 I'm going to try to enjoy it.   
  
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  Thank you.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT