NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: PENGUINS VS SENATORS
May 18, 2017
Sidney Crosby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What do you think you need to do to generate more offense against these guys and get some more goals?  
SIDNEY CROSBY: I think just execute.  I think the chances have been there.  We've hit some posts and had some good looks.  So I think just make sure we're hungry.  I think, when it's not going in for you, you've just got to keep it simple and make sure you keep getting pucks to the net, keep getting guys there, and make sure we're competing in and around the net.   
 Q.  What do you say to a guy like Jake who seems to have  -- I mean, you're getting chance after chance, and they're not seeming to fall for him?  
SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, that's the way it goes sometimes.  You just got to say with it.  It's like everyone else.  It's the same approach.  It's good when you're getting those looks.  That's a good thing.  Eventually, it will go in.  It's the same approach, just like everybody else, keep going, and the puck will go in.   
 Q.  (No microphone)?  
SIDNEY CROSBY: Well, yeah.  I mean, you have to turn the page regardless of what happens, good or bad.  That's what the playoffs are about.  We've got to take some things from that game, but I think the biggest thing, looking back at it, it's the start.  And we'll make sure that we're better going into the next game.   
 Q.  You talk about the three-headed monster with you and Geno and (inaudible), secondary scoring (inaudible)?  
SIDNEY CROSBY: I think everybody has to play to their roles, and the goals will come.  The chances have been there regardless of who gets them.  I think this time of year it doesn't really matter as long as they're going to the net, and we've had the chances to do that.  Unfortunately, they haven't gone in to this point.  We don't have to change too much.  I think we keep getting those looks, the puck will go in the net.   
 Q.  I know you don't care who's in goal for you when you start Game 4, but do you hope it's Marc after all he's been able to do here of late?  
SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, I mean, you don't like putting your goalie in that situation like we did last night where we didn't give him a lot of help.  So for many reasons, but I think especially that one, you just want to make sure that you're better as a group in front of him.   
 Q.  Did you say anything to him after a game like that to lift his spirits or anything?  
SIDNEY CROSBY: No.  I think that all the guys are supportive of each other, especially when it's your goaltender.  I think everyone knows that we didn't give him a lot of help.  So I'm sure there's more than one guy saying, hey, you know what, it's on us, and we've got to be better in front of you.  Just like everyone else, he'll turn the page, and we will as a group and make sure we're better.   
 Q.  The game didn't go the way you wanted, Sid, but is it a relief for you to get on the score sheet after a bit of a dry spell there?  
SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, I mean, a goal in a 5-1 game, you know, it didn't really change anything.  But I think the main thing for us and for me personally is that the chances are there.  Sometimes they don't go in for whatever reason, but as long as you feel good about what you're creating out there, that's important.  As long as we're playing the right way, that's the most important thing.   
I think, for the most part, we've done a pretty good job of that.  We're guilty of a bad start, but I think, as far as the goal scoring, I think, just keep going here, and we'll get the results we want.   
 Q.  When a head coach says you guys play without conviction, does that resonate with the guys in the locker room?  How do you take a statement like that?  
SIDNEY CROSBY: I think we're well aware that the expectations are high, and we're well aware the way we need to play this time of year.  I think that, when you're challenged, you want to respond.  I think, as a group, we've done that for a long time now.  So I think this group has a lot of pride, a lot of character, and it's up to us to go and show that.   
But there are games where you're not at your best and things like that and you don't want it to happen, but I think last night was one of those examples where our start, for whatever reason, we weren't there, and we paid for it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT