U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2013
Paz Echeverria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How does it feel to see your name on the leaderboard at the U.S. Open? 
PAZ ECHEVERRIA:   It is great.   It is my first Open, so it's really special.   My family is here with me.   And my coach is too, so I think I am feeing really comfortable with the course. 
I played really great today.   It was one of those days when everything came together.   I drive really good, hit good shots, make some putts and that's it.   That's this course.

Q.   Was there anything in your play the last weeks that would make you think you would begin with this score at the U.S. Open?
PAZ ECHEVERRIA:   I feel like I've been playing really good for the past months.   I haven't been very lucky, so I don't know.   It's just trying to do my things.   Try to keep calm. 
It is a big tournament.   There are a lot of distraction here, and you have to like stay focused.   That's what I'm trying to do.

Q.   What's been the biggest distraction for you first time here?
PAZ ECHEVERRIA:   I think just knowing that it's a U.S. Open.   I mean, it's my first, so I think just that. 

Q.   We have some people that are 14 playing and you're‑‑
PAZ ECHEVERRIA:   28.

Q.   Talk about just the path to get here and playing your first at 28?
PAZ ECHEVERRIA:   My path is a bit different from most of the girls because I didn't came to college here.   I study and get my degree in my country, in Chili.   I didn't realize I wanted to be a pro golfer‑‑ I was 24 when I finished my degree.   After that I went on a trip to Asia for three months.   I realize that I love for traveling and I wanted to give it a shot here, so I'm enjoying the moment.

Q.   Did you play golf on that trip?
PAZ ECHEVERRIA:   No, no, no.   Just travel.   Just southeast Asia.   It was great.

Q.   Does this give you a different appreciation because you are a grown woman doing this?   You have gotten a degree.   You are very different than some of the younger girls?
PAZ ECHEVERRIA:   I believe that maybe I don't have the pressure that other girls may have.   I don't know.   Like probably I see life in a different way.   I don't know.   I have my degree.   If this doesn't work, I have another Plan B which I hope not to use.   But it's always there. 

Q.   Did you play golf in college in Chili?
PAZ ECHEVERRIA:   No.   I mean, I keep practicing, but like once a week, my weekly class with my coach, but I didn't play much.

Q.   Did you consider coming to the United States to play collegiately at all?
PAZ ECHEVERRIA:   I did, but ‑‑ I had some offers, but I wasn't really sure about coming here and I really give a good test, like the SAT in Chili, I had a good one.   And I could study what I want where I want, so I decided to stay there.

Q.   What did you get your degree in?
PAZ ECHEVERRIA:   It's like business with an economics and marketing.   It's like a little bit of everything, so it's business.

Q.   What is Plan B exactly?
PAZ ECHEVERRIA:   Plan B is like working in four walls, but I don't want to do that now.   I want to enjoy the moment.

Q.   When you came and looked at this course, did you feel like it had the type of scores it's had today?
PAZ ECHEVERRIA:   I think the course was playing really easier, much easier than the practice rounds.   Most of the tees were really forward, so it wasn't that long.   I'm not impressed about this course.   If you hit it good, you are in the right spot.   You can use the slopes.   And I'm not impressed at all. 
I'm a little bit sick.

Q.   Do you play better when you're sick?
PAZ ECHEVERRIA:   I don't know.   I've been like this ten days.   I can't take anything, so just waiting to go away.

Q.   Who is the most famous golfer from Chili?
PAZ ECHEVERRIA:   There was one girl who played here before me, Nicole Perrot.   She won one once, but that was like eight years ago. 
This year I got my conditional status, so I'm the second.

Q.   How popular is this sport?
PAZ ECHEVERRIA:   It is not popular at all.   Everything is about soccer.   And for everything.   Like to find sponsors or for everything, it's like golf does not exist.

Q.   Are there a lot of courses?
PAZ ECHEVERRIA:   I would say probably 40 in the whole country, so it's not much.

Q.   Pretty hilly too?
PAZ ECHEVERRIA:   Yeah, my course is pretty hilly. 

Q.   How did you start playing golf if it's not popular there?
PAZ ECHEVERRIA:   We go ‑‑ in summer we have a beach house an hour away from Santiago where the most beautiful golf course in Chili is.   My dad started playing there when he was a grown man.   I started with him.   I was five.   I wanted to spend time with him, so he took me.   While he was in his lessons, he was like there is your club, there is your ball, do whatever, swing wherever you want but don't bother me.   This is my hour; I'm playing here.   Yeah, I think that that was the way I started.

Q.   When did you first get lessons?   Are you self‑taught? 
PAZ ECHEVERRIA:   I'm sorry? 

Q.   Are you self‑taught or did you get lessons?
PAZ ECHEVERRIA:   No.   I got lessons.   After that I started having my regular lessons and then probably when I was eight, I start competing in junior tournaments.

Q.   Where you grew up, how close is that to Santiago?
PAZ ECHEVERRIA:   I grew up in Santiago.   My golf course was like three minutes away, five minutes. 

Q.   Would you like to see this course harden up?
PAZ ECHEVERRIA:   Harder? 

Q.   If you are unimpressed today, what would impress you for this course?
PAZ ECHEVERRIA:   For the way I hit the ball today, I don't mind if they put it longer.   I think that will benefit me.   Some days you play well, some days you don't hit that well.   So I think it doesn't really matter because to everybody it is the same course.

Q.   Did you grow up kind of idolizing Nicole or who was your golf idol?
PAZ ECHEVERRIA:   The truth is‑‑ the truth is that golf wasn't like a big thing for me until I was like probably like 18 or something.   At that time Nicole was on Tour and she opened us a door, like showing us a way that we didn't even think about.   So basically, yeah, I could say maybe I didn't idolize her, but she was the one who showed us the way.

Q.   What were you thoughts coming into this tournament in terms of expectation?
PAZ ECHEVERRIA:   I didn't want to think‑‑ I don't want to think about results.   I just want to think about play well and if that via consequence brings a good place that will be great.   I just want to have fun out there.

Q.   This is not only your first Open but your first major?
PAZ ECHEVERRIA:   No.   I played in Rochester three weeks ago.   That was my first.

Q.   Do you have your whole family, mom and dad here? 
PAZ ECHEVERRIA:   No, not the whole.   I have five siblings, so I couldn't bring them all.   I brought my sister, my parents and my coach.

Q.   Sister older or younger than you?
PAZ ECHEVERRIA:   Older, three years older.   She took a week off from the office. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT