ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
February 26, 2020
Naruemol Chaiwai
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








England - 176/2, Thailand - 78/7
Q. Obviously a heavy defeat. What do you think about that game?
NARUEMOL CHAIWAI: So from a personal point of view and a team point of view, we were looking forward to play England. They were a world class team.
Q. What were you thinking when England was 7 for 2 after those first two overs. How excited were you to get those two early wickets?
NARUEMOL CHAIWAI: At that point, we were pretty optimistic to get those wickets, really big wickets as well. Thought that it could affect the game.
Q. Thailand are a team that is a very good fielding side. It's one of the things you pride yourself on. There were a few misfields out there today as the innings got older. Were you disappointed by that side of the game?
NARUEMOL CHAIWAI: A bit of nerves maybe, but not really disappointed. We know there's some things we've got to work on moving forward.
Q. Soraya Lateh has bowled quite well in this wicket. She got the wicket of Hayley Matthews, a big West Indies batter, in the first game and a big one again today. How well is she bowling? Obviously, she hasn't bowled much in her career so far. Why is that?
NARUEMOL CHAIWAI: She's one that has a bit of potential in her but still lacking a bit of motivation. In the past year she's been honing her skills. She's getting better and better every day. Also with the motivation of the team that's helping her take that No. 1 spot to bowl.
Q. In what sense is she lacking motivation?
NARUEMOL CHAIWAI: So it's just she's a bit shy, so it's just a part of the team that has to bring the best out in her in the field and the potential that she has.
Q. In the 19th over, when England were batting, Thailand chose to use a DRS review against Heather Knight. It looked to be quite a long way away from the stumps. Did you genuinely think that was out, or was it partly about trying to force a break in momentum given that Heather Knight had been so dominant with the bat?
NARUEMOL CHAIWAI: It's just tactically just to break the momentum because she was getting bat on ball and just to slow the game down for us as well.
Q. How difficult is it as a side using DRS when you've never encountered it before, and have you done any particular training for that?
NARUEMOL CHAIWAI: There was no real training, but it's down to the skippers and the bowlers' views on that, on what's happening.
Q. As a batting team, what sort of targets are you setting yourself through this tournament, and what would you like to achieve across your next two games in the group stages? Is it reach 100, or is it individual targets you're setting?
NARUEMOL CHAIWAI: So everybody has their own plans in playing the game. So personally, her role is just supporting and assessing the situation so the two openers get off to a good start. Then she can build on that. Or if we lose two quick wickets, then she has to consolidate and steady the innings.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT