NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RANGERS v FLYERS
May 23, 1997
Jeff Beukeboom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  It seemed like you hit Lindros 15 times.  It has got to be frustrating to be in the box?

JEFF BEUKEBOOM:  It is frustrating, you know, on the losing end, regardless.  We are not getting -- you know, you can't say we won, but we are not -- you know, both these games at home we didn't get -- they capitalized on some opportunities and tonight I thought we played a strong game.

Q.  The way this team has come through with so much, do you have a decent confidence level going into the next game?

JEFF BEUKEBOOM:  Obviously it seems like we are not getting any breaks as far as bounces that we might have gotten in other series, but we are not done.  Four games wins the series and we feel confident that we can go into Philly and play well.

Q.  Did you get a bad break on LeClair's play?

JEFF BEUKEBOOM:  Well, you know, I think he had to call it.  He called a good game.

Q.  Just one of those things, the stick gets up there?

JEFF BEUKEBOOM:  Like you said, I don't know whether I hooked him, then he raised his arm and my stick came up with that or else it clipped him, I really don't know.  It was unfortunate because obviously it cost us the game and as a result, we are down 3-1.

Q.  It looked like you guys were fighting an uphill battle.

JEFF BEUKEBOOM:  That is not the way we look at it.  Obviously, it is an uphill battle now.  But we felt we had the opportunity to -- you know, we gave ourselves opportunity to come in here 1-1 to, you know, to use our home ice to our advantage and, you know, we really didn't.  The last game, we tied it up twice, and then we gave them opportunities to win it and they did.  They used them.  Tonight we tie it up 1-1.  We give them an opportunity to make it 2-1; then we tie it up again, we give them an opportunity to win it.  And they took advantage of the opportunity.  And, the opportunities we are getting, we are not taking advantage of them.  Whether it be powerplays, or you know, hit in the leg, not getting a bounce - that is part of it.

Q.  (INAUDIBLE)

JEFF BEUKEBOOM:  I can't say it is "hurt" right now because we feel confident that we can do what it takes to bring it back here for game 6.  Like I said, right now, it is just a matter of bounces.  They are playing hard.  They are playing well.  We are playing hard.  We are playing well.  And, you  know, they got a bounce tonight, a few bounces, actually.  What can you do.

Q.  How do you think Eastwood did head-to-head not allowing him to give up speed in the neutral zone?

JEFF BEUKEBOOM:  Well, you know, Mike has played great for us during the Playoffs.  As a lot of guys have.  And, you know, he is doing what is required of him.  I think he is doing an admirable job.

Q.  How about Richy playing on his end?

JEFF BEUKEBOOM:  Well, where would we be if it wasn't for my Richter?  Right now -- we wouldn't be talking right now probably if it wasn't for the way he has played so far.  He has played well again.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT