MASTERS TOURNAMENT
November 14, 2020
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Talk about the round overall. 
CHARLES HOWELL: Yeah, it was good. You know, the golf course is still different in places than you kind of expect it to be. There's still a bit of moisture in the greens, which I'm quite sure as the day goes on and especially tomorrow, that'll come out of there. 
Yeah, listen, it's nice. Anytime you're playing the weekend at Augusta is a good deal. I feel like we've played in a lot of random conditions this week and a lot of conditions you very rarely if ever see here. At times people say that it's easier when it's soft, but it's so different that it's its own challenge. 

Q. Talk about obviously the importance of playing the weekend. Now that you're here, what's the plan going forward? 
CHARLES HOWELL: Yeah, I mean, well, you shoot as low as possible, right, and that's it. You've got to play the par‑5s well here. If you do that, who knows what could happen. Yeah, just shoot as low as possible. The weather looks like it's going to be perfect, so I'm quite sure you'll see still more low scoring because of that. 

Q. Anything in particular that you want to tidy up? 
CHARLES HOWELL: No, just honestly still work on the greens, trying to figure the speeds of the greens out. They're going to get faster, and I'm quite sure by the end of the day, so it's almost kind of readjusting and getting your eye used to seeing bigger breaks and the speeds that we're used to. 

Q. So that's where it's the most different, putts not breaking as much‑‑ 
CHARLES HOWELL: Oh, for sure it is. You're used to seeing a putt that breaks three or four feet, now it's only breaking a foot and a half because they're slower. It's a speed read and you're marrying that all the time. I think that's why you've seen quite a lot of guys miss putts high the first couple days because you're so used to taking the high lines and watching these balls break. Yeah, it is that. I mean, it's not just the speed, it's the read of them, as well. As soon as you forget where you're at, you'll run one six feet by and then you're reminded. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT