WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 27, 2019
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Got it going there.  13, 14, 15 and 16 kind of turned the tide there.
CHARLES HOWELL III: Yeah, this golf course is tricky.  We played in the practice rounds with a bit of a north wind and it comes out today with the normal southerly wind.  And I think it took both of us a little bit to kind of get the feel of how that was.  The greens were a bit quicker and firmer today than practice days.
Yeah, I think it takes everybody just a little bit to kind of get back in the flow of how this place normally plays.
Q. Looking at your career, going back to junior golf, you played a lot of match play in college.  And then you were a great match play guy.  As a professional you don't play that much.  But I guess you still harken back to those early days, don't you?
CHARLES HOWELL III: Yeah, it's such a different format.  We're so used to -- it's still a four-day stroke play and you grind that out, and here you all of a sudden start paying attention to what the other guys are doing more than you should.  And it kind of gets you into hitting some stupid shots you shouldn't hit and trying some things you probably shouldn't try.
But I love the format.  I've been on both sides of the fence with it by winning and losing, but I really enjoy it.
Q. The way you're playing right now, Charles, you have to be very, very happy with the game.  It's in a good spot.
CHARLES HOWELL III: Yeah, I am.  And I had a nice week of practice last week, looking to this weekend, to that little invitational in Augusta in a couple of weeks.  So I think everybody has got a little bit of an eye on that as well as they prepare for it.  Having a match play running into that is fantastic.
Q. Congratulations again.  Paul Casey tomorrow.
CHARLES HOWELL III: Yes, it's a shame he's been struggling with his game lately (laughter).  Hopefully he can find a bit of form and get to playing better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT