WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 22, 2007
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   CHARLES HOWELL III:  Maybe the wind was a saving grace, we played some practice rounds in the same wind in the same direction and same speed, but I haven't played here in a while but the last couple of years, I've seen, you know, 19-, 20-under win this golf tournament, and, well, I sure didn't see it out there today. 

 Q.  A lot of players have talked about the greens.  You had just 26 putts today.  Were they that tough? 
 CHARLES HOWELL III:  Oh, I thought the greens were great.  It looks like they have redone them.  Like I said, I haven't been here since 2002. 
 But no, the greens look fantastic.  Not much grain in them for Florida.  The wind makes it difficult to putt on them for sure, but the greens were fine. 

 Q.  Why did you not play here since 2002, was it the course -- inaudible? 
 CHARLES HOWELL III:  Just where it was on the schedule.  I like the golf course a lot and I like staying here on the resort.  But after the West Coast and the Match Play, living in Orlando, playing Bay Hill, it was just a scheduling thing, nothing against the golf course, no. 

 Q.  Did the win at Nissan sort of relax you for the year? 
 CHARLES HOWELL III:  Sure, yeah, I mean, any -- any time you win, it's relaxing.  But it's golf, you've got to keep going.  You're only as good as your last shot, really.  Yeah, in this game you keep working hard, you keep going at it. 
 Yeah, the Masters has been in the back of my mind for a few weeks now for sure,  and playing on days like today is good for me.  You know, it's tough out there for everybody.  You've got to hit some shots and the things I'm working on in my game, they either show themselves in the win or not. 

 Q.  Three birdies on the back, to bogeys, what came together for you, just getting acclimated with the win? 
 CHARLES HOWELL III:  There's a few holes that you do get downwind that you have to take advantage of and there's some holes such as 18 that you've just got to try to find a way to make par on. 
 Anybody that plays well this week just has to take advantage of the holes they need to.  Holes like No. 1, like No. 10, any par 5 that you can get on or around in two, you've got to take advantage of, especially on a day like today, then you just hang on for dear life on the other ones. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT