WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 21, 2007
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Make a couple comments on your round.   
 CHARLES HOWELL, III:  I played well today.  I was able to make a bunch of pars, not too many mistakes.  Stuart didn't have his best day today, but it was nice to get through the first round at least.   
  
  Q.  What hole would you say was the key?   
 CHARLES HOWELL, III:  You know, I hit it close on 13 to make birdie to go 3-up, and that was nice there for me because it gave me a cushion.  In this deal with these competitors, it's tough.   
 Probably the 13th hole birdie there was -- I figured I had a good chance after that.   
  
  Q.  Talking about Riviera, would you say the win has been a hinderance or a help carrying over?   
 CHARLES HOWELL, III:  No, those can only be helps.  It still really hasn't sunk in, and having only won now twice, it still hasn't sunk in.  Yeah, Riviera is a special place to me, and to win there was very fortunate.   
  
  Q.  What's the key to success here at the Gallery?   
 CHARLES HOWELL, III:  There's a lot of birdie holes here, but the pins are brutal.  They had a lot of them on the edges and the corners today.  You've still got to make a bunch of birdies, especially today when there's not much wind.  Especially playing against these players, pars just don't get it done.   
  
  Q.  Pretty tough match through eight holes and then suddenly you took off.  What was the key to that?   
 CHARLES HOWELL, III:  Well, I just did a good job of hanging in there today.  Stuart didn't have his best stuff out there.  But on this golf course where these pins are, it's tough.   
 There seems to be a lot of holes where you're on the edge of birdie or bogey.  You've got to make a decision how you want to play the course.  The greens are big, but where they put the flags, they get pretty small.   
  
  Q.  Has last week given you a totally different perspective?   
 CHARLES HOWELL, III:  Well, it definitely helps with the confidence level, and just if nothing else, knowing you're working on the right things and going the right direction.  Then again, it's match play, so as we all know anything can happen, anybody can beat anybody, so it's a different week in the fact that it is not a stroke-play event.   
  
  Q.  You haven't had a great record in this tournament.  Do you feel like you're ready to right that?   
 CHARLES HOWELL, III:  Yeah, thanks for reminding me (laughing).  Yeah, it's match play.  It's funny how I've had some days where I've played well and lost.  Of course I've played poorly and lost, as well.  But the top 64 players are never going to be easy.  I've got a tough match tomorrow with Sergio, so I'll have to play well to keep going.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT