ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 9, 2019
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  6-under par.  3-under on this Saturday.  Your thoughts on how you played out there.  
CHARLES HOWELL III: Well, I got off to a nice start and I wish I could have gotten one or two more there at the end, but it's like most Bay Hill weekends, it's getting pretty firm and fast out there and greens especially really firm.  So up in heaven I think Arnold is looking down smiling right now and as it turns brow nerve tomorrow I think that the grin on his face will get even bigger.   
 Q.  You got it to 4-under on the round through 10 holes.  This course seems to give guys runs but then the course says, not so fast, you got to be careful.  What is the difficulty out there, because the wind's kicked up as you said late in the afternoon.  
CHARLES HOWELL III: Yeah, it's so dang hard to get the balls close to the holes when they get this firm.  Reading the greens when they get this firm, the balls tend to almost slide on the grass a little bit before it even starts rolling.  So the balls break a little bit differently when it gets this speed.  But, no, it's just difficult with wind and it's what it should be, it's what Bay Hill needs to be and it's one why the players love the place is because a lot of times single digits can win the golf tournament and it's what it should be.  It rewards good shots and man if you're off a little bit it will make you look foolish.   
 Q.  It's great to hear some of the younger players talk about the legacy of Arnold Palmer even though they may have met him one time.  This is your 19th consecutive trip to this golf tournament.  One that means you've been around a long time, but your thoughts on Arnie and what it means to you to come here every year.  
CHARLES HOWELL III: Well, he was nice enough many moons ago, 19 years ago, to give me a sponsor exemption into the golf tournament and it was before we lived here in Orlando and we have now made this our home, both of our children were born at the Women's and Children's Hospital that have his and Winnie's name on it and that's special.  What he's done for this town, now living here, I understand and appreciate it.  We used his hospitals for that matter.  But yeah, it's just incredible.  I've never met a nicer man, especially one that has done and accomplished all he did.  He was larger than life and it's just great to see all the guys still come back and support the event because Arnold would have just loved every minute of it.   
 Q.  19 previous appearances, do you feel like this is the best position you've been going into a final round?  
CHARLES HOWELL III: It is.  I just can believe this is my 19th one.  I read that the other day and I haven't gotten over that yet.  But, yeah, it is.  A lot of times I've spent Sunday afternoon's -- well Sunday mornings playing here and the afternoon's watching on TV.  But it's a -- man, it's just such a great event, the finishing holes the, the stretch down here, so much can happen on those last four or five holes and, yeah, it's my best shot.  Rory played a heck of a round today and he won last year, so he's going to obviously be the guy to beat tomorrow and it's going to take a good number to get him.   
 Q.  When you know how good Rory gets when his mojo is going, how difficult is that to beat?  
CHARLES HOWELL III: Well I'm a fan of his, I think he's got it all.  Yeah, I just, every time that guy's in the field I think he can win the golf tournament.  So when he gets going like that, he's, it's hard to beat, it's impressive and fun to watch at the same time.  So, man, if he gets going like that, it will be hard to get him, but, man, more power to him, keep going.   
 Q.  Does it surprise you that he hasn't won since last year here?  
CHARLES HOWELL III: It surprises me every week he doesn't win, to be honest.  So, yes, yes.   
 Q.  So he probably really wants it.  
CHARLES HOWELL III: I think he's -- yeah, I would say that there's no weakness in that kid's game and he's shown he can do it on the biggest stage, right, so, yeah, I'm shocked every week he doesn't win.   
 Q.  Seems like a little grin breaks out when you talk about how tough Bay Hill is on the weekend.  So a round like this where you kind of get off to a hot start and then kind of hold on at the end doesn't bother you?  
CHARLES HOWELL III: Well, I kind of grin because it happens every year.  Even like on Tuesday with some rain and soft and all that, and then this happens on Saturday.  It's every year.  But it's what these big major type events should be.  And it's got rough out there, it makes you think, the greens are firm, and honestly, it's a pleasure playing a place that doesn't take 20- to 22-under to win.  And look at the strength of field, I think guys like that, I think that's why they come back.   
 Q.  Have you come here and played?  
CHARLES HOWELL III: Occasionally, yes.  Our house is 10 minutes from here, so, yeah, I do.  And it's always a really fun golf course to play.  It doesn't get like this very often, but, no, it's always a fun golf course to play.  But this week Arnold always wanted it difficult and that's just what makes it Bay Hill.   
 Q.  What do you remember from 19 years ago?  
CHARLES HOWELL III: I remember I was paired with Adam Scott the first couple days.  I can't remember who our third was.  And I remember after playing here I thought, I got to get a lot better.  Because it was one of my very first events as a pro and I just remember thinking, okay, I've got to get better, this, it got my attention, yes.   
 Q.  And you did.  
CHARLES HOWELL III: Fortunately, but I don't know.  I haven't won enough.  I got a lot of gray hairs to show though.   
 Q.  Do you still feel like you got a little momentum from the victory at Sea Island?  
CHARLES HOWELL III: Yeah, you know, it's much of a -- yes, momentum from that, but also a great reminder of to keep working and keep pressing and keep finding ways to get better, because the next generation, these guys coming up keep pushing forward and making us better and I would still like to keep playing out here, Lord willing, if I can stay healthy, so I've got to keep finding ways for me to get better.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT