PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2006
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHARLES HOWELL III:  I haven't shot that way in a long time.  You don't necessarily think it's going to come the first round of a major, but it didn't come a second too soon.
Q.  What did you change coming in here?
CHARLES HOWELL III:  Honestly, I just kept working.  I really did not change a whole heck of a lot of what I was doing except just continued to work.  The biggest thing is might be a change in mindset.  I'm just letting    just keep telling myself to continue to work and continue to play hard.  No one in this game enjoys the struggle.  It's definitely no fun.
Q.  Talk about the history you have.  Can you compare this to anything in your career previously?
CHARLES HOWELL III:  Yeah, there's always ups and downs.  You know, my first couple years of college I never played as well as I wanted to.  It took me a couple years there to settle in.  I had a nice    my junior year, my last year of college I played really well.

But once again, I think one of the things that helps me is to remind myself I'm 27.  Lord willing, I have a lot of years left in this game.  We all want success right now, and we all want it yesterday.  I think it's just maybe taken me a little bit longer to find out what works for me as far as just everything, sort of your recipe, if you will.  You know, Vijay has found that a lot of practice and a lot of hitting balls works for him.  You know, everybody finds their own little thing, and I'm still in the process of finding out what works best for me.
Q.  Any long putts on those birdies today?
CHARLES HOWELL III:  Let's see here.  The putting was very good, and in fact, contrary to my scoring, my putter has actually been pretty good.  I birdied    well, the 5th hole, the par 5, I knocked it on in two, I two putted for birdie there.

I birdied the par 5, 7th, hit a sand wedge to six feet, made birdie there.

Birdied 12, I hit a 9 iron to eight feet, birdie there.

14, par 5, I hit a sand wedge to ten feet, birdie there.

17, I hit a 7 iron about 25 feet past it and holed that for birdie.  That was a nice one for birdie there.  It was nice to make a long putt there.
Q.  Bogey on 18?
CHARLES HOWELL III:  Yeah, I drove it in the rough off the tee, and with where that pin is, it was hard to get close to it.  But no, I mean, like I said, this is the first round I've shot under par in a long time.  I would have taken 2 under this morning and stayed in bed, I promise you that.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT