THE INTERNATIONAL
August 5, 2005
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Charlie, for joining us for a few minutes.  Nice eagle there, nice finish.  Kind of like Billy, changed the scheme of things with that birdie, eagle, he went eagle, birdie.  Talk about your day a little bit and then we'll go into questions.
CHARLES HOWELL III:  Yeah, obviously I haven't played as well as I would have liked the last couple months.  I've been through a couple changes.  I changed caddies a few weeks ago after the US Open.  I have Jimmy Johnson caddying for me.  A long time caddie of Nick Price.

You know, still been working hard on everything.  It's been a bit of a struggle the last, you know, couple months, I would say.  I got off to a really good start to the year.  But it's nice to come out, have a nice opening round like this today.  It's a bit of a confidence or a shot in the arm, so to speak, that I think I needed.

Yeah, I've had two weeks off prior to this.  Working hard on my game.  Yeah, it's just    I like the golf course here.  I like the format.  It's a nice change of pace every once in a while.  But, yeah, it's just nice to have a nice start to a tournament.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Questions, please.
Q.  No. 17, could you comment on that, where it is?  You played it on the Back 9 today.  That being reachable in two, with eagles being five points, your comments on that.
CHARLES HOWELL III:  You know, the golf course used to be a case where you could reach all the par 5s pretty comfortably, and you had a lot of holes that were fairly good eagle chances.  Now with a little bit of the rain, the 14th hole    the 1st hole was playing quite long today.  14 was playing long today.  Those holes aren't quite as easily reachable as they have been in the past.  A hole like 17 becomes so much more important.

No. 8, even though with that new tee box, that hole is not the same hole it used to be.  17 I think becomes even more important.  The guy that sits in this chair winning on Sunday is going to have made a few eagles, you just have to.  The first place you look is 17, probably one of the most important holes in this golf tournament.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Let's go through your club selections for your birdies and eagles.
CHARLES HOWELL III:  No. 1, I hit a driver and a 5 wood in the green side bunker.  Got up and down for birdie there.

No. 7, the par 3, 7 iron to 15 feet right of the flag.  Made birdie there.

No. 8, I hit a drive, laid up, hit a poor wedge long into the back bunker.  Didn't get up and down.  Made a bogey there.

9 was a 3 wood and a 7 iron to about 15 feet.  Birdie there.

16, the par 3, 6 iron to about 10 feet, holed that one for birdie.

And 17, I hit 3 wood, 6 iron, to about five feet.
Q.  Length on your second shot into 17?
CHARLES HOWELL III:  Let's see, adjusted out for all the altitude, 202.  It takes us about six numbers to get there.  It ended up 202.
Q.  Explain the six numbers to get to that, if you would.
CHARLES HOWELL III:  Well, we start with the actual number.  You take the actual number down to a percentage of the 10% for the altitude.  You take that 10%, then you go uphill yardage, however many yards you think that is playing uphill.  You have to factor in the wind direction.  So there's four numbers.  You may see me out there with a calculator before the week is over.
Q.  What did you major in in Oklahoma State?
CHARLES HOWELL III:  I didn't even graduate (laughter).  I majored in golf and minored in business management.  We never got to the math, I don't think.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Charlie.
CHARLES HOWELL III:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT