BOOZ ALLEN CLASSIC
June 25, 2004
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  We would like to welcome Charles Howell into the interview room.  12 under par and two shots back.  Will you now talk a little about your round and how tough is it to follow up a day like you had yesterday?
CHARLES HOWELL III: As easy as yesterday seemed, today seemed a bit of a grind.  I got off to an okay start, and any time you shoot 10 under, there is still a weird feeling about the following day, and at the same time, I've got a chance here going into the weekend, which is not something I have been able to say very often this year.  I'm excited about it.

Obviously, I didn't really ever expect to     I always expected some low number.  I knew still today after 10 under, you're going to have to play well to maintain the top spot.  There is going to be some low scores out there, and provided the weather holds as it is now, that should continue through the weekend.
Q.  Take us through your card.

(Scorecard read.)
Q.  Questions?  Charles, obviously, there is a long way to go, but at the same time, Adam is one of your better friends out here.  Is that fun to be in the mix with the guy you're really comfortable or friendly with, or is it more pressure?
CHARLES HOWELL III: You know, honestly a little bit of both there.  Obviously, Adam has had a fantastic year winning the Player's Championship, what a feat that was there.  We've played golf against each other for so long, since the college days.  We kind of both took different routes to get where we are now; Adam obviously more of an international player than I am.

Yeah, obviously he's a fantastic player.  He's had a good year.  He's obviously playing well this week.  It should be fun.  I would say that to win this golf tournament, no matter who it is, they're going to have to have a very good weekend out here.
Q.  A follow up to that, is he one of three or four guys that you routinely play with?  And who tends to get the better of those?
CHARLES HOWELL III: Honestly, we haven't played a whole lot together.  We played a practice round oddly enough this week on Tuesday.  I think that may be the only time we played a practice round together this year.  I would say my best friend out here is Tiger.  We play a lot together and practice a lot together.  I play most of my practice rounds with Tiger.  Adam and I are very good friends, but we haven't played a whole lot together this year.  No reason for that one way or the other.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
CHARLES HOWELL III: Yes.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
CHARLES HOWELL III: Yes.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
CHARLES HOWELL III: You know, on a few of the holes we did.  I might have should told him a few other things like where not to hit it.  Adam's caddy is a good friend of mine, and we've     you know, all the young players out here seem to get along very well.  There doesn't seem to be this rivalry or animosity thing or anything like that.  And then some of the younger American players, they're good friends of mine.  It's a pleasant thing with the younger players.  We've all been able to get along versus getting a little bit of the other way.
Q.  Following on that theme, is it maybe the year of the younger player, or do you think that this is maybe a new era where guys like yourself and Adam are really going to step to the forefront and challenge some of the older vets?
CHARLES HOWELL III: Every time we say that, it goes the other way.  A couple years ago, you had 18 first time winners, and then it just turned around the other way, and, so, I wouldn't say that, no, not yet.

The     I hate to say "older players," because I'm going to be one one day, and there will be some kid in there calling me one.  But they've played very well.  And you can keep going down the list.  There is still something to be said for the experience those guys have, their maturity on the golf course.  When they asked Kurt, he said he kind of likened himself to an old pitcher, he just knows how to get it done, knows how to play the game.  I think that's something any young player, including myself, continues to learn.  Everybody has to learn their own recipes for success so to speak.

One thing that really baffles me this year was the week prior to Augusta, I was in Orlando working every day with David on my game and Ernie Els practiced one time and spent the rest of the week in The Bahamas.  He finished 2nd, so everybody has their own way of doing it.  You can't count any of the older players out, no.
Q.  From a ball striking perspective, was today different from yesterday?
CHARLES HOWELL III: No, it just comes down to the putter.  It's amazing that     yeah, you can argue a little bit here or there, but sure, it wasn't that much different.  It's the putter.  I can guarantee that I didn't see one hole, but I bet you Adam putted really well today.  Very rarely will you have 9 kick ins for birdie.  Anytime you see a guy shooting that low or going that low, he's definitely putting well.
Q.  Did you get any reaction to your 61, phone calls, or are you at such a level that it doesn't surprise anyone you would do it?
CHARLES HOWELL III: No, I got phone calls from     well, David, my mom and dad, Tiger, and the sports psychologist I work with, a guy named Jim, just the usual ones.  Tiger probably would have followed up the 61 with another 61.  I'm still learning that one.  He just said, good playing, keep playing well.  We talk a lot of times not even about golf.  He's a fantastic friend.  It's just good.  The side of Tiger that I have been lucky enough to see I think a lot of people would like and admire, the total opposite of what was written in the USA Today about the guy.
Q.  Anything else?  Charles, thanks for coming by.  Good luck this weekend.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT