THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
November 8, 2003
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK: Charles, three straight rounds of 67 have you one back of the leader heading into tomorrow.  Talk about that.

CHARLES HOWELL III:   I definitely didn't think if I shot 67 today I would be one shot back, especially on this golf course.  Yeah, the golf course isn't easy.  But I will say we have seen the same conditions three days in a row.  And I think when players out here see the same conditions three days in a row they're going to do well.  But like said, I would have never bet you that another 67 today would have put me one back.  So that just goes to show you, doesn't it? 

TODD BUDNICK:  A 61 on this course, is that thinkable.

CHARLES HOWELL III:   You know, early in the week I thought 7 or 8-under was going to be the low score for the week.  10-under is obviously one heck of a round, anywhere you shoot it, but especially here.  The par-5s are reachable in two but you've still got to make a bunch of other birdies.  So, yeah, obviously when you say it's a great round, it is. 


Q.   Did you look at any boards casually as you were going by and did you see them go up and did it surprise you?

CHARLES HOWELL III:   I saw it on 15.  Because it's staring you right in the face there.  And I was three shots back at the time.  I felt pretty strongly that I needed to make a couple birdies coming in.  Because when a guy's going like that you figure he might birdie one of the last two and get to 14-under so I saw the leaderboard on No. 15 and thought I needed at least one coming in to be close tomorrow.


Q.   You were 2-under at the time, a good solid round, was it a jolt at all to say, how does this happen?

CHARLES HOWELL III:   No, it was a bit of a jolt, to be fair.  I had just parred the 15th hole, which is a par-5 there.  Which you don't ever want to do.  Obviously you're always trying to make a three or four there.  And then to par that hole and then to come around and see that I'm three shots back is a nice, yeah, it's a jolt, yeah, amongst other things.  But I hit it close and then on 15 I made that birdie.  Then obviously the one on 17.  I wasn't thinking of holing that putt, to be fair.  But it looked pretty good going over the hill. 


Q.   Pretty good shoot-out tomorrow?

CHARLES HOWELL III:   Yeah, it will be good.  Between the two of us we have amassed a total of one win.  So it will be good.  I think early in the week a lot of people would have bet you would have had some different players up there, and lo and behold what happens?  I guess that's golf.  It shows you that you're at the TOUR Championship, though, and the top 30 guys are here, or 31.  And because a guy like Chad Campbell, he can go shoot 61 on a day like today, and do what's done today, passing as many guys as he did.  So it will be good tomorrow.  But there will be some birdies out there.  There will be some low scores.  A guy still that's 6, 7, 8 under can still shoot a low one and jump right up.


Q.   Was L.A. your only final group paring?

CHARLES HOWELL III:   Yeah, I was in the final group in Canada, I believe, yeah, with Bob Tway.  And I was in the final group here last year with Vijay. 


Q.   Do you think this setup could yield a 61?

CHARLES HOWELL III:   Did I think?  No, I didn't think so.  No.  The only thing being is that the par-5s are reachable.  If the wind would have blown a different direction, and then the par-5s are not reachable.  But still, I mean, no, I wouldn't have thought so.  No.  With all the different pins on the greens, and especially where they have put them, it's  -- no, a 61 is an incredible round. 


Q.   Is there anything about playing this time of year, September, October, that you seem to have a knack for playing pretty well?

CHARLES HOWELL III:   I don't know why that is.  I guess this week you know that the year is almost over.  You've got a break coming up from competition.  But also you've got to realize I have nothing to lose this week at all.  If I win this golf tournament I will not win the money title.  If I win this golf tournament, I won't win Player of the Year.  So I've got nothing to lose.  Basically, I have tomorrow to go play as hard as I can.  And then I have two weeks in South Africa.  I came into this week with absolutely nothing to lose.  Where a person like a Tiger or a Vijay and a Davis Love and a Mike Weir and Jim Furyk, and Ernie, these guys all have -- if I win this thing, I may win Player of the Year and whatnot, which I had nothing to lose.


Q.   Is it easier playing that way?

CHARLES HOWELL III:   Yeah, I think so,  because it's last event of the year and it's just all or nothing basically for me in my case.  I haven't won this year.  And so basically I give it all I can do to try to get my butt back in Maui in January, and I've got tomorrow to try to do that. 


Q.   Three straight 67s.  I can't imagine, since you've been out here playing with the varsity that you've strung together three rounds that well, even in your win.  I can't imagine it could be that low.

CHARLES HOWELL III:   No, I don't think I have.  These have been three good days for me.  I've said before that any time you go to win a golf tournament, you always need like a 63 or 64 in there in the mix.  And I've played three really solid rounds of golf.  And I can't ask for anything more.  When a guy goes and shoots 10-under par, there's absolutely nothing you can do.  Just hang in there with him and keep it close for tomorrow.  It will be fun tomorrow.  Chad and I were paired together last week in Tampa and we're a lot alike, our demeanors.  And he's obviously another young player.  And it should be good.  We don't bring a whole lot of experience to the table, but then again, from the things I've seen this year, who is to say experience is necessary. 


Q.   Speaking of experience, this was the 40-something year, all the old guys, and now look at the three of the names here, Riley, you, Campbell, all 20 somethings.

CHARLES HOWELL III:   Right.


Q.   Did it just take awhile for you guys to break through the young guns, are late in getting started, I guess?

CHARLES HOWELL III:   We're late bloomers. 


Q.   Fresh legs?

CHARLES HOWELL III:   I don't know.  I can't explain it.  I couldn't explain 18 first-time wins this year and then who would have thought it flips around and does the complete opposite this year.  I don't know.  I just will say that winning isn't easy, I think is what it shows.  And any given week when you tee it up, any of the 156 there can win the tournament.  And then especially when you reduce it down to the top 31 and it's even tougher then.


Q.   It's the chaos theory kind of?

CHARLES HOWELL III:   It's golf.  Just the golf theory. 

TODD BUDNICK:  How about your birdies, Charles. 

CHARLES HOWELL III:   Yeah, number 3, that was a driver and a 9-iron to about 15 feet.  I holed that for birdie. 

5, the par-5, driver, 5-iron, two putt birdie. 

9, par-5, hit a driver, that was blocked out a little bit, I hit a punch 5-iron on the green from 190, ran it up, 2-putt birdie there. 

Then number 15, driver, 9-iron to about 8 feet.  Birdie. 

17, I hit a poor tee shot in the right rough with a 3-wood, 7-iron just short of the green.  Holed a long putt there.  

Then I bogeyed number 10.  I hit a great drive, hit a poor second shot, a 6-iron to the right and didn't get the ball up-and-down. 


Q.   You were talking yesterday about how unusual it was to have two par-3s on a course where you're hitting long irons in.  And I'm wondering, would you talk about the challenge that those two, particularly number 12, poses for you, because 12 has played the hardest the first two days.

CHARLES HOWELL III:  You got two par-5s that are a lot alike.  They're both similar distances.  The wind's both playing off the left.  They got the hazard short and left.  They're almost identical holes.  I think I've heard this story that Ben Hogan played -- that the fourth hole was the last hole in competition that he played -- about seven million times now this week.  The other hole doesn't have as good a story on it as that one.  But, no, they're just two tough holes you're just trying to make par on.  The par-3s out here if you can play them in even par throughout the day, you've done fine.  And then you try to take your best advantage of the par-5s. 


Q.   Through no fault of your own you're kind of going to be the bad guy taking on the hometown Texan tomorrow.  Are you ready for that one?

CHARLES HOWELL III:   Yeah, to be in this position, that's fine.  Yeah.  Chad's obviously played great this year.  I believe he came into this week 8 or so on the Money List, which is a heck of a year.  But he hasn't won.  Basically the both of us have this same mentality tomorrow, nothing to lose.  It will be fun tomorrow because we're both young players, we haven't been in the position a lot, there's nothing to lose on top of that. 

TODD BUDNICK:  Okay.  Thanks, Charles. 

CHARLES HOWELL III:   Thank you. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT