BELL CANADIAN OPEN
September 4, 2003
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Charles, great round today, 3-under 67.  I know you were upset with the ending, but you played a great round in some tough conditions.  Why don't you talk about your day and the conditions for us.

And since he was kind enough to come in here before he practices, and let's get his questions and answers in and let him get back out there and practice.

CHARLES HOWELL III:   You know, the golf course played very difficult today.  I played on Monday morning in no wind at all and now it's completely changed from that.  You can tell they have had to slow the greens up on the back nine a little bit because of the slope in them.  The greens, such as No.  18, are quite a bit slower than, say, the greens on the front nine.

Obviously I'm very pleased.  With this amount of wind blowing in these trees here, it's very difficult. 


Q.  What did you hit on 17?

CHARLES HOWELL III:   I had 197 to the front of the green and hit 6-iron out of the rough there.  I was fortunate that the ball was sitting down in the rough, but the grass was going with me.  That green there has so much slope in there, I thought my best chance, at worst, end up in one of the green-side bunkers and then laying it back. 


Q.  And 18?

CHARLES HOWELL III:   I was surprised how far that 3-wood went, to be honest, off the tee.  That's the only hole out here that doesn't fit.  You know, that's not a very good finishing hole.  You can't hit driver off the tee and then you are left guessing on the club to go just over the hill.  I hit a 3-wood there and it's 293 to run out and it's downhill so that you can't lay back with a 2-wood on top of the hill because then you're on the front of the green.  I thought I had no chance to reach the hazard and it did.  I was pretty fortunate with the lie in the hazard  -- yeah, it came out hot.  I was not expecting that at all.  I was aiming that ball below the flag, knowing you can't be above it, but I still gave myself a chance for par. 

I hit 3-wood, 8-iron.  144, front. 


Q.  Do you go out with a U.S. Open/PGA type mentality in conditions like this? 

CHARLES HOWELL III:   Without question.  We just played the PGA at Oak Hill not too long ago and it's a very similar penalty.  I think you could make 18 pars today and that's not a bad score at all. 

Yeah, you have to have that mentality when the wind starts blowing like this.  Teeing off in the afternoon when the wind is blowing on the first tee, and you pretty much know it's going to blow all day, it's a tough day.  Especially here, where there's so many great holes that kind of fit in amongst the trees, you can't stand up and whale driver on any hole out here.  And it makes you think a lot.


Q.  You have to tee off at 7:40 tomorrow after going off at 12:30 today; does that even it up? 

CHARLES HOWELL III:   It definitely makes a difference yes.  Hopefully the conditions will be a little softer in the morning.  Hopefully the wind won't be up as much.  Yeah, definitely so. 

If there's a preference, I would rather play late/early.  You tend to get the tournament started and then you can go right into the second round.  Of course, this is the first time I've had a late/early in three months.  So I'm going off a nice record of early/late, so I guess it's flip.


Q.  Playing with Jesper, dress-wise, what was your philosophy here?

CHARLES HOWELL III:   Oh, I can't keep up with Jesper.  I think Jesper and Aaron Baddeley have taken over the throne of the outlandish dressers. 

I'm sure you saw what Aaron was wearing at the PGA when he played with Tiger, and you won't catch me dead in that.  And if I do wear that, I'm afraid other people will kill me. 

But no, I love the clothing, obviously.  I think it's important to look a little bit different, but I can't quite go to the pink pants and the purple and pink lines and that sort of thing.


Q.  Have you ever been paired with Jesper before?

CHARLES HOWELL III:   I got paired with him at Kemper for the first two rounds and here recently, I think it is, which is more than we've played before.  We didn't wear the same clothes today, fortunately.


Q.  When you know you're going to be paired with him, do you just surrender? 

CHARLES HOWELL III:   Well, I'll tell you, Jesper always comes out with great sayings.  At the Kemper Open, he came out with a few and then today, on the 12th green, I had about a 6-foot putt for birdie and he hit his birdie putt down and it ran about five feet by.  And I said, "Are you going to wait or would you like to finish?" 

He said, "I'll wait."  I said okay. "In fact, I'd wait until tomorrow if they'd let me."  (Laughter.) Only Jesper can actually say that and get a laugh out of you. 

Yeah, when I see I'm paired with him, the very normal clothes come out, yes.


Q.  I've got to go back to your comment about the greens.  Can you compare them a little bit in regards to the front and back?  You said that there was definite differences.  Can you tell me Stimp-wise what maybe they are running on the front against the back?

CHARLES HOWELL III:   You know, it's hard to guess the Stimp.  There is a definite notable difference in the front and the back nine, which is very understandable.  They had to do it with the amount of slope on the greens on the back nine.  There is a definite difference.  When you get on the 10th green coming from the ninth green, you definitely expect slower greens on the back nine, without question.  The slower ones being, I think No. 10, No.  17 and No.  18.  But, that's very understandable. 

I remember the U.S. Open at Southern Hills a couple years back, the 18th green at Southern Hills looked like a fairway; they had it growing so long because of the slope in it.  They have done it before and it's the only thing they can do.


Q.  You're often held up as the new breed of the guys that can bomb it forever.  Would you like to see more golf courses setup like this?  Would you like to play golf courses where maybe there's a little more creativity and shot-making involved? 

CHARLES HOWELL III:   You know, I think it's funny that everyone talks about distance the last two or three years.  If you look at the people that have won our major championships, they have not been the longest hitters. 

You know Mike Weir can hit the ball a long way, but he hits it very straight.  Shaun Micheel drives it straight, Ben Curtis, Jim Furyk obviously.  I think it shows you that accuracy is still the most important thing. 

Yeah, it's nice to be able to stand up there and bomb it and hit it a long way but if you don't hit it in the fairway, it doesn't matter.

And on top of that, at the Open this year, I hit four drivers around.  At the PGA, I hit seven.  So even with the ability to hit it long, you still can't hit a lot of them.  Without a doubt still, the most important thing is driving the ball in the fairway and it always will be. 

To answer your question, I do like a golf course like this.  I wish we did see more like this because this isn't short, either.  There's still some 450-yard par 4s, so you have to drive in the fairway. 

Yeah, this golf course is fantastic. 


Q.  How many did you hit today?

CHARLES HOWELL III:   I think I hit seven. 


Q.  How far was the chip on 4? 

CHARLES HOWELL III:   That was from about 25 feet.  Actually I putted that in.  It was off the green but I putted in.  Driver, 7-iron. 

JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Thank you, Charles. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT