THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
November 1, 2002
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Thank you, Charles, for joining us.  Great round today in some real tough conditions with the cold weather and I guess the greens were pretty fast.  
CHARLES HOWELL III:   Yeah, today we started off and the weather was actually quite nice when I teed off.  It was probably around 60 for the all-time high of the week.  The wind was not blowing that much at all. 
The more holes we played, it got windier and cooler. 
The golf course, still, toward the end of the round today was kind of how it played yesterday.  So it wasn't really anything new. 

Q.  You got to 6-under twice there and that birdie on nine was big and then you bogeyed and seemed like you got to 6-under and something happened.  It was that kind of a day; not because  -- tough to play too aggressive?
CHARLES HOWELL III:   It was.  Every time that I made a birdie, I tried to hang on it as much as I could.  I still hit a few poor shots out there. 
The 10th hole, being such a long hole, I was able to hit a good drive there.  I only had a wedge to the green and made bogey.  The fifth hole, the other, what you might say, the long par 4 on the golf course, I had a wedge to that and made bogey.  Those two shots there were thrown away that was not very good. 
Actually, those two holes there kind of hurt.  If I make two pars there, I'm 7-under, which looks a little bit different than 5. 
Obviously, the birdies were hard to come by.  You're right. 

Q.  Are you happy with a 70? 
CHARLES HOWELL III:   No, not really.  No.  Well, actually I had 69. 
No, not really.  I thought I left a few out there where I shouldn't have.  I was able to drive it in the fairway enough where I should have taken better advantage of a few of those holes.  Obviously at the beginning of the day I would have been happy with a 69 but from how I drove it, it was decent.

Q.  Having the year you've had, and now you're in this position, 23 years old, you've got to feel still confident in yourself and the way you're playing, and I have one other short one for you, but I just wonder your thoughts there. 
CHARLES HOWELL III:   You know, yeah, I'm still confident, obviously.  It's been a good year so far.  But as of late, though, I've been kind of spurred on a bit.  Obviously winning the tournament at Michelob, having a chance to win in Las Vegas.  Disney I played well there.  I was never really close to winning but I played well. 
So a little late burst of energy here, yes.

Q.  Under a tough day and a tough course, you managed to hold up.  What was key today; the irons, the putting, the driving? 
CHARLES HOWELL III:   The key, obviously, was the driver.  Any time the conditions are this bad, you've got to drive the ball in play. 
That doesn't necessarily mean in the middle of the fairway; if it's just the first cut of rough or it's still a playable lie, a yard in the rough on some holes where the wind is blowing.  But still, no doubt about it, the driver is the key.

Q.  Is the course drying out any? 
CHARLES HOWELL III:   It's drying out a little bit, but the ball is still picking up an unbelievable amount of mud, where I can still see all of the pitch marks from every drive in the fairway.  I think I saw one ball bounce maybe three feet in the air.  But I can still repair all of my driver pitch marks.

Q.  What would winning this tournament mean to you?  That would be a pretty heady thing after a first win. 
CHARLES HOWELL III:   It would be unbelievable.  Especially, if I look back in the part of the season around the Byron Nelson and the Colonial, I missed both those cuts in Texas.  I played both of those events, they were not originally in my schedule, but to try to stay within the Top-50 of the world ranking to get myself into the U.S. Open and the British Open, I felt out on the last day, the Monday after Memorial, the last possible day, I felt out of the ranking there.  
I was actually pretty down and disappointed then.  I was still able to qualify for the U.S. Open but that was probably the low point of the year, those three or four weeks in there.  So, you know, from there to where I've come now, it definitely is a lot better now, so winning THE TOUR Championship would obviously mean more than I could really have ever thought about.  Going into this week, I never thought about winning it; obviously I wanted to play well. 
Same as the Michelob.  I didn't really tee off on Thursday thinking, "hey, I'm going to win this golf tournament."

Q.  What do you mean by that, you didn't think about winning?  It almost sounds like you don't expect to win. 
CHARLES HOWELL III:   No, it's not a sense of not expecting to win.  It's a sense of trying to stay in the present and to stay with one shot at a time right in front of me. 
In the past I've struggled from actually getting too far ahead of myself and maybe thinking about winning or thinking about something that I shouldn't be thinking about that was going to happen one, two, or three days ahead of myself. 
Going into tournaments now, I just simply try to just play golf.  Out here, it's very easy to get ahead of yourself and it's easy to  -- and not just on the golf course, but in your entire mindset.  When I go into a week like this and I say that I wasn't  -- it's not that I'm not trying to win, I don't expect to win; it's that I find more importance in the shot ahead of me versus a result.

Q.  Have you analyzed the problem with your driving? 
CHARLES HOWELL III:   As far as? 

Q.  You were a little wild off the tee at times, it seems. 
CHARLES HOWELL III:   You know, I've driven the ball well this year.  I think I'm first or second in total driving.  So actually the driving has been okay.  It's been the putting and chipping I've worked a lot on. 

Q.  In this particular tournament. 
CHARLES HOWELL III:   I drove it really good yesterday.  A few holes out there, obviously the wind is blowing hard and there's a lot of cross-winds going. 
You know, actually a few of the holes where the par 5s moved up to par 4 tees, they don't fit your eye the same.  It's odd, for example on the 10th hole seeing a fairway bunker out there that you are meant to play to the side of and now you are actually flying it 30, 40 yards.
As the conditions have gone, I don't think really my driver has cost me any shots. 

Q.  The drive on 9, how far was that; was that your longest? 
CHARLES HOWELL III:   Actually, I'd say my longest was the drive on 10. 
On 9, I still had, I think, 275, 270, 175 in there. Actually I got that one a little bit thin.  The one on 10 was probably my best one so far.
It's odd playing in the cooler weather.  We're used to playing in this 80, 90-degree weather and now all of a sudden it's 60 degrees and the ball is not going as far.

Q.  How much of a sign of progress is it for you to have a very below-average ball-striking day and pretty much get the job done with the putter like you were doing on the front nine?
CHARLES HOWELL III:   It reminded me a lot of the Saturday round up at Kingsmill when I didn't hit the ball very well that day and was able to get up-and-down a lot and hang in there to make a couple of birdies at the end. 
A few holes out there today, for example, the 18th hole, a par there almost feels in a sense like a birdie.
I just kept thinking back to that.  With the conditions out there, I know that the greens are fairly large, but with the pins being tucked as they are, if you are going to make a birdie you have to take advantage of the few times you get and maybe go at those flags.  It reminded me a lot of the Saturday round at Michelob.

Q.  When you reflect back at Michelob when it was over, did you think to yourself, it was so easy why, didn't it happen sooner or did it make you appreciate how hard it is to win? 
CHARLES HOWELL III:   A little bit of both is what it did.  I know that's not the answer you were after, but it was a little bit of both. 
In a sense, I felt it was easier than I thought it would be.  But on the other sense, I kind of  -- it was a little bit tougher than I thought and easier in the fact that I was really worried about just the next shot in front of me and I wasn't worried about a result.  I looked at the 18th hole on the leaderboard and saw that I had a one-shot lead with about a 15-foot putt for birdie  -- and then the Saturday round where I could have let it go away, and then thinking about how well I played on the front nine on Sunday, I think I had 31 on that front side.  If I go shoot 34 or 35, which is a decent front side, I don't win the golf tournament. 
So in a sense, it's a little bit of both.  Obviously, you see so many times where on Sunday, the players at the top of the field start running away with birdies, or you see the exact opposite, the leaders start coming back to the field.
The Michelob there was actually a case where the leaders stayed right where they were and fortunately, I was left standing there at the end.

Q.  Looking ahead, is there any added incentive or if you should win, any added satisfaction to the fall finish, winning that, because you do have a shot at it? 
CHARLES HOWELL III:   Yeah, I've seen  -- obviously, you see the rankings on the leaderboards occasionally. 
Sure, it would add incentive to it, there's no question about it. 
I haven't added a tournament to my fall schedule because of that.  But I've only missed, I think, one tournament, the Buick Challenge, last week I withdrew from because I was tired.  But no, I would say that, sure, it adds incentive.  Obviously you are always thinking about that. 
Kind of like winning or whatever, it sort of takes care of itself. 

Q.  Talk a little about, you had a stretch where you hit a lot of shots to the right but you got up and down.  Talk about the improvement in your short game and how much that meant to you today to be able to scratch out a round when you missed a bunch of greens?
CHARLES HOWELL III:   For a while there, I needed a camel to get me out of the sand.  It was quite a few holes there in a row where I did miss a few shots to the right.  The 10th and 11th hole, two in particular, both second shots were straight downwind.  I kind of had a feeling that I had underclubbed myself.  It was the right club, but it was just hard to convince yourself how far the ball is going to fly.  I got a little out of the shot on both of them, maybe swinging a little hard at them and missed them to the right.  Obviously any time you have a hole straight downwind you don't want to miss the green.

Q.  Talk about your short game. 
CHARLES HOWELL III:   Well, the bunker shot on 10, actually hit the hole, which actually I was trying to hit the flag to slow it down there was no other way stop that one.
11, was a really good up-and-down.  It was an easy pin being back left, to miss it in the right bunker was just a bad shot.  That was a pretty big up-and-down there to keep the round going, yes. 

Q.  You talked a little bit earlier in the week about maybe a little pressure in wanting to prove yourself.  Did you feel that, and was it because of the fact that, obviously, you're the poster boy for the young guns and all that.  Did you feel, "Hey, if I go a whole year without winning, I'm really not meeting the expectations"? 
CHARLES HOWELL III:   You know, I was feeling that.  Yeah, I was feeling if I were to go the whole year without winning I would not have met some expectations, sure. 
There's a lot of people around me, starting with a great sponsor in Callaway Golf, all the way to a golf teacher, David Leadbetter to my family to everyone around me that putts a lot of effort into my golf.  It's not just myself; it's a lot of other people. 
In a sense, if I were to go an entire year and not win a tournament, I would almost feel like I've let them down a bit.  I feel like it's very important for me to play well because I'm not the only one that gets enjoyment out of that.  I know that for example, the relationship I have with David Leadbetter, where he's become like a second father to me and best friends, in a sense, where I think David gets as much enjoyment out of me playing well as I do and the same is true for my family. 
You know, from my wife, Heather to my mom and dad, brother, whoever it might be.  I definitely felt like I wanted to play well, not just for myself but for them as well.  That's important to me, because I like the people around me.  I don't have a lost people around me but the people I do have, I always want to keep them close.  And it's important for me to do that, knowing that I'm going in the right direction and hopefully progressing. 

Q.  So a couple of weeks ago, you met expectations.  Do you think you can exceed expectations if you win here this week? 
CHARLES HOWELL III:   I don't know.  That's probably something that you can answer better than me, I don't know. 
I certainly inside of me believe that I can win this golf tournament, and the people around me believe that I can win this golf tournament.  And that's what matters to me.  Whether the expectation from the media or from others around or whoever it was said that I should or should not win this tournament, you know, I don't know.  But I know in myself, I believe that I can win it, and now will I, I don't know, there's still 36 more holes left.
If I don't, it won't be for lack of effort.

Q.  This is going to be kind of odd, but your wife was saying today when we were walking around that you are trying like you know what to gain weight and drinking all of these protein shakes and whatnot, and you are still checking in at about 153.  How do you manage to be the only guy out here that is not trying to keep the weight off, say Steve Lowery or whoever else was sitting in the chair earlier today?
CHARLES HOWELL III:   I do not know.  But I have tried everything I can do to gain weight.  I eat all the time.  I drink very high-calorie milkshakes right before I go to bed and sleep on them with absolutely no physical activity after they have been consumed.  That doesn't work.  I still wake up hungry. 
I've made milkshakes and left them beside the bed so if I wake up at 3:00  in the morning I drink one then; that doesn't work.
So pretty much, it's hopeless.  (Laughter.)
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Thank you, Charles, for joining us. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT