MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2002
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







BILL MORRIS:  Ladies and gentlemen, if I could have your attention, please, we're delighted to have Charles Howell, III with us.  He is a native of Augusta, as you know.  He's last year's PGA TOUR Rookie of the Year.  He finished 2001 among the Top-50 in the World Golf Rankings, and he's a former NCAA champion at Oklahoma State. 
Charles, we are delighted to have you with us and we welcome you here.  Perhaps we should start with an observation that you have, or would you like to go direct to questions?
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   Well, thanks for having me here. 
This is a dream come true.  What else can you say, being from Augusta, to play in the Masters, to be sitting here.  I don't really know what else there is to say to start off with, at least.  I'm just glad to be here. 
I know you hear it a million times that the Masters is great and the Masters is awesome, but it is.  Nothing more I can say, really.

Q.  Did you learn anything from Norman today? 
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   Yeah.  You know, we were actually joking on one hole out there.  I had asked him if he had had a certain putt, and then he kind of stopped for a second and I said, "Well actually you've probably done everything you can do at Augusta, haven't you?"  And he said, "Yeah, I think I have."   
He showed me a few putts, a few shots.  The pin placements, obviously he knows them.  You know, I think that's the main thing out here.  Tee-to-green, there's not a whole lot of tricks out there after playing the course a couple of times, but the greens, even yesterday, Sergio showed me a certain putt on No.  17 that was about three times as fast as I thought it was.  Just things like that, I mean, how do you  -- the greens out here are just unbelievable.  I missed the cut in Atlanta, so I could come play a couple more practice rounds  -- no sense in playing four days on that golf course.  (Laughter.)
So I came over here on Saturday and they were purple, they weren't green.  You know, they were hard and fast on Saturday.  Tournament's still a few days away. 
The greens in, fact, I think they were slower today than they were Saturday and Sunday, and I'm quite sure they are not going to get any slower. 

Q.  Does it seem kind of strange being the homegrown guy and virtually no homefield advantage for you on this track, because you didn't play it that much, and now they have changed it all, anyway.
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   Well, you're right.  I've played the golf course, I'd say, 15 to 20 times, and I've never seen this golf course, if you know what I mean.  I played in December quite a few times right after Christmas there.  You know, the fairways and all that, they are the same.  But the greens and the firmness of them, the speed is totally different.  Pins that are really easy to get to when they are soft and fairly slow, I guess slow out here is about an 11, so when they are really slow, they are easy to get to.  And now they are near impossible to get to. 
Yeah, you're right, I am from Augusta, but it is not as much of an advantage as it would be if it would be at Augusta Country Club. 

Q.  A lot is made of experience at Augusta.  It's been since '77  -- not many first-time winners.  Do you come here and go, "Well, I'm going to try and learn my way around this year" or say "Why not me?"
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   No, I think I can win the golf tournament.  I don't say that cocky, or I don't say that to stick a foot in my mouth or as coming out and trying to be anything more than what it is.  But if I get on the first tee on Thursday and I think that I can't win the tournament, don't have a chance, I can guarantee you I'm not going to win it.  That's one thing that I think I learned in college throughout the years was, you know, if you feel like you're supposed to win a golf tournament or if you feel like that you really can win a tournament and you believe it 100%, your chances go up immensely, versus going out there to say, "Hey, I'm just going to have a good time and enjoy it."  I can tell you, you can have, whether it's the Masters or U.S. Open or the B.C. Open, if you don't play good you're not going to enjoy it.  It can be an afternoon round with whoever. 
I think I can win the golf tournament.  You know, I love the golf course.  This is my favorite golf course.  You know, if I was going to play one golf course the rest of my life it would be this one right here.  Yeah, you know, I think, really do think that I can win.  Now, will I, who knows.  Obviously only one rookie has done it recently.  But, yeah, you know, who knows.  Golf is a crazy game.  Who would ever thought that I'd be sitting here today from this time last year. 
So, who knows. 

Q.  People have, probably yourself as well, set a lot for what they expect of you.  Is that a burden or does that match your own ambitions for what you look for in yourself for this game?
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   It's a compliment more than anything, say, comparisons say to Tiger, that he should win.  I think it's more of a compliment than anything else.  If people were not saying that, they would not think I was any good at all, so I just look at it that way and knowing as well, too, this is such a crazy game that anything can happen. 
You know, I really do believe, though, that in my heart, 100%, that I want to be the best golfer in the world.  You know, there's a lot of players standing between me, what am I ranked, 40th in the world, and that No. 1 position, there's a lot of great players in there, starting at Tiger and just going right on down.  So there's a lot of work I have to do and a long way I have to go.  That's my goal and that's my dream to be there.  This is a dream I've realized to be here, so no sense in not getting that one.

Q.  Considering what this tournament means to you personally, how do you channel the emotions come Thursday maybe Sunday?
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   You know I have no idea.  There's no way to prepare for it.  I was here earlier in the year and I played.  I remember the feeling I got when I first played the golf course, and the feeling I have even playing today and you just never get totally comfortable.  This is Augusta National.  This is the greatest place in the world, in my mind.  To somebody else, the greatest place in the world may be Disney World.  But this is the greatest place in the world to me right here.  I don't think you ever get 100% comfortable here, especially if you appreciate the history, the membership, who belongs here on a daily basis.  When you don't appreciate anything like that, how can you ever say you're 100% comfortable at Augusta National, I don't know. 

Q.  What was your home club?
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   Augusta Golf Club, right up 12 green and 13 tee, right up there.

Q.  Padraig Harrington was saying that when he was here the first time he felt like a headless chicken.  Will there be a touch of that now, or have you been around the place long enough to get rid of that?
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   Well, I've been around it a few times.  You know, I wouldn't say I'm a headless chicken, but I would not say I'm an expert, either.  I'm somewhere in between there.  I might be a goat.  (Laughter.)
I'm not quite the headless chicken.  No, there are some putts out there that you just can't imagine that are going to go one direction and be it, what some people might call grain or who knows what it is, there are some putts that I'm sure every member here can tell you a different putt that's just going to blow your mind, and it does.  It's amazing. 
You know, you think you learn those things over the years.  Like earlier playing with Greg he showed me a putt on the eighth hole that never ever would I have gotten right in the tournament, that broke a completely different direction than I thought that it would have.  It's just things like that, that over the years you learn.  I'm sure there's a lot of things that  -- I'm even sure Jack Nicklaus is still learning things, and all of the success he has had here; I'm sure Tiger is still learning things.  It's a process.  I realize that.  But over the years, I'm sure I'll be picking up things and maybe I'll be helping the next 22-year-old skinny kid out here.

Q.  Can you go back to 1987 what you remember from the win with you were seven years old from Larry Mize and how that got you hooked on golf?
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   That was right around the time I started playing golf was when he won the tournament there.  Being from Augusta, it even made me pay even more attention to it.  Actually I was not on the 11th hole when he did chip in.  I had been at the golf course all day and had gone back home to watch it on television.  To see a guy from Augusta win it shows you, hey, I can do that.  Growing up in Augusta, you play golf.  Maybe growing up in New York or Chicago or L.A., you may play basketball or whatever.  In Augusta, you play golf.  Every young kid plays golf, and with the Masters being here every year, I got to watch the best players in the world play for many years, from '87 to '96, I went every year to the golf tournament. 
You know, it's just amazing, the whole place is.  I still say that if I win the Masters, I'll retire the next day because that's all I want to do.  It's probably not true, but it just means, winning this tournament would mean everything to me. 

Q.  Do you worry that you can want something too much and that it can just overwhelm you when you get out there on the course? 
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   You know, not really.  I think the only thing I've wanted anywhere close to this was probably the NCAA, my junior year.  I had an idea then I was going to turn pro, and you know that tournament, I really, really wanted to win that one bad, not just for myself but for Coach Holder, for my golf team.  Fortunately I'm good at taking distractions away from my head and not thinking about them.  I've been good at just ignoring things, so to speak.  When I tee it up on Thursday I'm going to try to forget that this is the Masters and forget that this is Augusta National.  How good I do with that, I'll tell you Thursday afternoon. 
I'll do the best job I can do at ignoring the everything around here and just playing golf.  I've seen said before that if this were not the Masters, if there were not 1 million people out here, if it was just you and the golf course, I'm quite sure 90 percent of the players would play better than they do now.  But with the history, the tradition, I think that it's just  -- all of that can overwhelm you, and all of that can take you  -- take control of everything.  The best job I can do of ignoring it, the better off I will be.

Q.  What did you do to avoid the distractions of the week?  Do you stay at home or somewhere else? 
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   Actually I'm staying at home now.  The phone will be going off the hook shortly.  The few people that need us will have our cell phone numbers. 
I spend a lot of time at the golf course.  People ask me, "Well are you going to hit a lot of balls, chip-and-putt."  I'm saying, "Are you kidding me?  This is Augusta National, I'll be here all day."  I've dreamed about this.  This is the best driving range all year, it's the best putting green, it's the best chipping green.  There's nothing that's not perfect about this place.  I'll spend all day out here, yeah. 

Q.  It's well documented that you started playing here when you were ten.  How did that come about?  I guess you played with people who worked here, but how was that originally negotiated or how did it come about? 
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   The first time I played was with a member, Steve Brown.  He's also a member at Augusta Country Club where I grew up playing.  He was the first person to take me out here.  Over the years from playing at Augusta Country Club and my few trips out here meeting other members and have got to play, I played quite a few times with Rob Chapman, he's a member from up in South Carolina. 
I felt you, my caddy is Bobby Conlin, he used to caddy out at Cypress Point and he knows a lot of members there that are members here and all I've heard from him is these are the best members in the world, the members at Augusta National.  I've been fortunate to meet a lot of them.  In fact, a member was my partner at the AT&T, John Harris.  You just form friendships and it's great that way.  You know John and I we had a great time up in Pebble Beach, and I told him we'd have to come out here and play some more.  But, no, I've just been fortunate to meet members that way and the few times I played on Employee Day, which is a day that I still believe that's going on in May where certain employees can come out or the volunteers can come out and play.  There's a select few employees that can invite a guest to play and I was invited to come out as a guest and play.  That day you get carts  -- we try to play 54 holes.  We got here as early as we could.  I could not wake up at seven o'clock to go to school, but I can get up at 5:30 to come play here. We just played as many as we could.

Q.  Could you have appreciated it enough when you were 10?  You could not have had all of the history in your head, the first time.  What was that like? 
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   I had a good appreciation for it then.  I don't know why, but I did, yes.  At that time I was still hitting a chip shot on No. 11 that Larry Mize did, and I was still hitting a putt up 16 that Jack Nicklaus, that I had seen him make and the putt on 17. 
Yeah, I had an appreciation for him then.  Why, I don't know.  Obviously my appreciation now is greater than it's ever been but still, at age 10, I was nervous on the first tee, of course.

Q.  Did you ever have a job selling lemonade or any of these things during the Masters? 
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   I was offered to but it would distract from my golf watching so I never took up on the offer.  That would keep me from watching the tournament so I never could do that.

Q.  What were you offered? 
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   Well, just  -- they would actually go by and give slips out to the local schools in Augusta for like job applications, for, I guess, people to apply to come out here and work for the week, being spring break week in a lot of the high schools here.  I had seen the work slips, so to speak, but I wasn't  -- I wasn't going to do that.  I was too busy watching golf. 

Q.  This is more about the history and all.  Are you much into the history of game and having grown up in Augusta, are you familiar with Bobby Jones and all of his accomplishments and does that have special significance being from Augusta? 
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   Oh, sure it does.  I enjoy the history of golf, but I enjoy the history of Augusta National and golf a lot more, I would say.  Probably because Masters is the one tournament that I want to win more than any, but from watching all of the tournaments, I know a lot about it that way.  From Jack Nicklaus winning back down, even to Bobby Jones, I remember as a kid growing up I would watch his instructional videos, and the ones that were kind of like a soap opera/instructional video, I'm sure everybody has seen them in black and white.  From watching those.  Bobby Jones also played golf at Forest Hills, and I believe he won the Southern Open, I think it was. 
My appreciation for the history Augusta National and golf probably is definitely greater than just the history of golf itself.  This place is pretty special to me.

Q.  What enticed you to go to Oklahoma State rather than all of the golf schools we have around Georgia? 
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   Not the weather.  It wasn't the weather, I promise you.  (Laughter.)
Well, I probably say the No. 1 was the golf tradition at Oklahoma State.  When I looked to go to school, I knew at that point in time I wanted to be a professional golfer and I wanted to play golf forever.  Looking around at it, I felt the best school for me for golf was Oklahoma State.  Coach Holder has been there for 26 years.  I can say he's the best coach in college, of the ones I know.  I think he is 100% the best golf coach.  And the NCAA history there, obviously Houston won more NCAAs than Oklahoma State has, but winning eight NCAAs there.  But it's a golf school, and Georgia Tech, and Coach Heppler I think the world of Coach Heppler and at the University of Georgia, Coach Hack, and he has a great program there now.  But at the time I was being recruited I think the best school for me was Oklahoma State.

Q.  (Inaudible.)
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   He taught me a lot.  If it were not for him, I would not be sitting here today.  You know, I learned a lot about golf, I learned a lot about the mental aspect from Coach Holder.  He was definitely a diehard coach.  He was very strict.  He was very stern.  I got my shirt grabbed plenty of times.  I was yelled at plenty of times I promise you.  And it was always to do things to help me get here today.  Not one thing coach did was to hurt me, I promise you that.
The 16th hole at the National Championship, yeah, that was a drivable par 4 and it was the final round.  We were one shot back as a team and I had like an eight-shot lead as an individual, so the individual was more or less over with, and I said to the coach I want to hit a driver on that green and he looked at me and said, "You're going to lay up."  I said, "No I want to hit that driver on the green", I had driven the green the last three days.  He said, "Son, you pull the 5-iron out and lay up".  I said, "Okay, I'll lay up."  I wouldn't argue with him.  I made par. 
I have the utmost respect for him, probably more respect for him than any other coach at the time, I think, and I just felt it was best for my golf. 

Q.  I saw in the Chronicle story you mentioned in high school you called yourself a geek?
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   Yes. 

Q.  I was wondering how tough was it to be devoted to one thing like this, and do you think now you can serve as inspiration to millions of high school geeks? 
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   Yeah, I can be the poster boy for the high school geek.
For me, it wasn't that hard.  I don't know why, I guess that's part of being a geek, you just don't know why you are one.  (Laughter.)
I just loved golf.  It was golf.  That's all the I cared about.  It wasn't  -- which, you know I think to be a professional golfer, I think everybody in this field has something a little bit strange with them, and maybe that was the strange thing about me.  I know that every player in this field, if they were to open up and tell you everything, you would probably say, man, that's weird, that's not normal.  Because doing what we do, I can tell you, it wasn't normal.  I mean, at school at Oklahoma State, I hit balls many days when it was 30 degrees and the wind was blowing 30 miles an hour, and, you know, and loved every minute of it. 
To be the best at anything, the average person is going to say that you're not normal, because you can't be normal.  Because I don't want to be normal at golf; I want to be above normal.  So if my way of doing that is practicing a lot and practicing hard, that's my way about it.  You know, I can tell you, at the end of my golfing career, if I can look and say I practiced as hard as I could work and I didn't accomplish everything I wanted to, I'll still be okay; that's one thing I've always felt is that if I know I gave it 100% and didn't do it, well, that's okay.  There's nothing more I could have done.  I don't want to be one of the people that said:  Oh, I could have done it if, I wish I would have done this, I wish I would have done that.  I just choose to eliminate that aspect of it, and in everything.  In my time spent working out in, my time spent practicing, in my time spent playing, you know, I give it all I can.  I promise you that the efforts I give will be the best that I can give.

Q.  Your pursuit of No. 1, that would mean taking on and beating Tiger Woods. 
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   Right. 

Q.  Can you just talk about that development process and also what your coach had told you about what he has that you're trying to find? 
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   Well, I tell you, Tiger is unbelievable, the things that he has done, you can't say how great they are.  You know, we played a practice round, or a few holes of a practice round at the match-play in San  Diego at La  Costa earlier this year and I was giving him a hard time out there, just to say, hey, listen any questions you have about the tour, let me know, I'll help you out.  If you hang in there things are going to turn around for you; you're going to get better.  (Laughter.)
Obviously, to be the best, you have to beat the best, and he's the best.  You know, there's so many great players out there.  I mean, how can you say, what, Phil Mickelson, with all that he's won and David Duval.  I turn on Masters highlight videos and I think David Duval has finished second to fourth every year I've watched.  There's a lot of great players there.  I just think it's going to take a lot of hard work.  I feel that I have a God-given ability and talent that hopefully I can get to that.
To answer your other question about what Tiger has that no one else has, I don't know.  Obviously, the mental part of it, because I can show you a million guys that can hit the ball good and I can show you a million guys that putt good and chip good or whatever.  It's golf, that little bit extra.  And why does 
Phil Mickelson win and not so and so, or why does Retief win Atlanta and not somebody else?  Who knows why.  It's that little bit.  And you say, why does Tiger win four majors in a row?  Granted he hits it a long way and he putts good and chips good, but I think there's something else in his head that is just a little bit extra.  Anybody can tell you golf is a mental game but I promise you it is.  How else are you  -- if you were to put David Duval, Phil Mickelson and Tiger Woods on the driving range, they are all impressive.  Everybody in this field hits it impressive.  So how do you end up determining a winner is between your ears.

Q.  Masters rookies had the first round overnight lead three years in a row.  I wonder if you have a theory how that could happen and do you think you are putting it and hitting good enough to have a chance at extending that streak? 
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   I didn't know that.  That's pretty interesting. 
I tell you, I felt like I'm putting and hitting it as good as I have all year right now.  I've gotten three really good practice rounds in.  Dave and I spent a lot of time on my putting and short game.  I felt like I've hit the ball well all year, just that little scoring bit I've missed here lately and sometimes that just takes one good shot or one good putt to get over. 
As far as continuing that streak, I'd love to do that.  I've love to be the fourth in a row.  You know, why that is, who knows.  It may be  -- my best guess would probably be having no expectations, just going out and playing golf.  When Tiger tees it up on Thursday, the whole world expects him to win.  When I tee it up on Thursday the whole world won't expect me to win. 
And there is some comfort in that, if you want to look at it from a no expectations standpoint.  But I think a little bit, I kind of go out there with some expectations.  I mean, I want to contend.  I want to come down on Sunday on the back nine like I've watched for a million years where everybody says the tournament starts Sunday afternoon, and it starts Thursday morning, I promise you.  They just don't let you get on that tee, that 10th tee on Sunday with a one-shot lead I can tell you that.  
As far as why that happens I don't know, but I'd like to be a fourth.

Q.  Usually this is a question for Mickelson and Norman and those guys, not fair for a 22-year-old in your first Masters, but at the end of your year if you won majors and events but not this tournament, would you feel there was a void?
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   Oh, yeah I would feel like it would be a huge void.  You know, I would trade a U.S. Open, a British Open and a PGA for this one, in a heartbeat.  I mean, I would trade those three majors in a heartbeat, there's no question. 
To wear one of these right here, I would give anything, I promise you. 
And I think that comes from growing up in Augusta, I really do.  I don't know how many other players in the field would make that statement but I promise you that's the way I feel.  If you could ask me three  -- you want three majors this year or one Masters, I would say one Masters. 

Q.  Following up on the geek scenario from high school, have you enjoyed a celebrity status coming back here, friends you never knew you had before, friends calling trying to get tickets? 
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   I had 14 good friends in high school and they all fit in my golf bag.  (Laughter.) For a while I had a girlfriend and her name was Big Bertha. You know, I had the other girlfriend that came and went and that was my putter. 
You know, tell you, I don't feel like there's been any kind of new celebrity or hero.  I guess maybe I don't get into all that.  At the end of the day, if I play good, I'll get a lot of attention from that, and that's just fine with me.  I want attention for the right reason.  Obviously, I wear different clothing because I just like them.  I think the people that really knew me know I always want to have something a little bit different, you know, be it a set of irons with a little bit different grind or whatever, something a little different, I liked that, I always have for some reason.  So the clothes do fit me well in that respect.
But, yeah, we've had a few extra people call for tickets.  You know, you get 8, that's what you get. 

Q.  Can you specifically address the putter?  You've gone through a lot with the putting this year and I know you talked earlier in the West Coast Swing about having worked on it before the season, so what didn't get done coming into the season or as this has progressed that you are trying to get done now?
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   I spent a lot of time in the off-season working on putts six feet and in.  That's probably the best way to put it, and not enough attention on putts in the range of 12, 15, to 18 feet.  The one thing I have learned out here is you pick up a pin placement sheet and there's not many pin placements more than four paces from an edge.  You can't hit it four feet every day on every single hole, I promise you, and what better example than Augusta National right here.  You just can't do it.  The pins aren't put there to be easy. 
So, to putt well out here, you have to make a lot of putts from the 15-foot range and I always spent time working on that range right there.  In college golf, amateur golf where the pins are, greens are softer, pins are easier you can go at them.  You might have five or six putts for birdie inside six feet a round which is great.  Here at Augusta National, or this course is the best example, you're just not going to have it.  A front right pin on 16, for example, or whatever it might be.  You're not going to see a whole lot of putts from that range, so I spent a lot of time working on those.
BILL MORRIS:   Charles Howell, thank you very much and good luck to you this week.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT