WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 20, 2002
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  Was there any turning point out there, the birdie on 9 or 11? 
CHARLES HOWELL:   I think the birdie on 9 was really big because I had a chance to knock that on in two.  I missed the green there to the right because but I was able to get the ball up-and-down.  That kept the momentum going a little bit.  That was the most important one right there. 

Q.  How about on the back? 
CHARLES HOWELL:   Well, I tell you, the birdie on 9 was big to go 2-up going into the back nine, and the one on No. 11, once I got 3-up there, Stewart hit a great bunker shot on the par  5, the 12th hole there.  But fortunately I was able to make that putt for birdie to halve him there.  But Stewart played great today.  Took a great round to beat him.

Q.  What were the putt lengths on 9 and 11?
CHARLES HOWELL:   9 was about 15 feet and 11 was about two feet. 
I didn't think he was going to give it to me, which is understandable.  These greens are a little bit bumpy, and you just never know what the ball is going to do, so that's understandable. 

Q.  A couple of big guys in your bracket are gone, Monty is out, Tiger is out?
CHARLES HOWELL:   That's match-play for you.  It's crazy.  Heck, I shot 7-under today and you know I go out there and I shoot 1- or 2-under and I'll lose, and 1- or 2-under is not a bad round.  Match-play is crazy like that.  You can get hot and get going, and that's just what it takes.  Stewart played great today.  Take nothing away from him at all.

Q.  How did you feel getting this first match out of the way, first time here? 
CHARLES HOWELL:   You know match-play is never easy, especially when you're playing a guy like Stewart who hits it really straight, he'll never beat himself.  So that's tough, especially with myself; I've had a lot of good rounds there, but I've had a couple of rounds that I have not been too pleased with.  It's just really important not to beat yourself, and Stewart is never going to do that.

Q.  Had you even looked ahead in the bracket at all?
CHARLES HOWELL:   Not a bit.  Just one at a time.

Q.  You knew you were in the Tiger region?
CHARLES HOWELL:   I didn't even know that.  I figured to play Tiger, I'd have to play really good. 






End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT