WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 23, 2018
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Comment about your finish out there today?
CHARLES HOWELL III: Well, it was interesting playing a guy that had nothing to lose, and I knew he would be quite aggressive and could go at a lot of stuff and made me work for it a bit.
Towards the end of the day I was watching the Mickelson matchup in front and nice to avoid a playoff with Phil, because that's just sometimes a boxing ring you don't want to jump into more than you have.  So was fortunate to get by.
Q. When you look at your record here, I think for the first eight times you didn't make it to the weekend, now you have.  Is it the format you like?
CHARLES HOWELL III: I like the golf course.  We played here in college.  And so I'd seen it before, had a little bit of familiarity with it.  And then it's match play.  I think the same reasons I didn't make it the first eight times is why I made it the last couple because it's crazy and you just don't ever know.  Playing Phil the first round, I mean in a way I've got nothing to lose in that match, because he's the favorite there.  And he just won the previous WGC.  So match play kind of lends itself to a little bit of that where a straight up stroke play tournament wouldn't.
Q. How good does it feel, you win your bracket or your mini pod and you advance to the Round of 16.  How big of a boost is that for you?
CHARLES HOWELL III: Well, you know, it's obviously good for everybody to advance, but for me I'm trying to play my way into the Masters, and I know I need a big week to do that.  And this is sort of our last chance to do it.  Yeah, that's in the back of my mind, as well.
Q. Are you playing Houston?
CHARLES HOWELL III: I am, yes.
Q. As far as the top 50 goes, any idea what you need to do this week?
CHARLES HOWELL III: I don't.  I was going to ask you.  Top 4?  That's great.  So I mean knowing that I need a big week here to get through, obviously, it's massive in match play.  Kiradech is an awesome player.  I feel like I'm the underdog, and nothing to lose, I like that.
Q. You're thinking about the Masters, it's always good to win and advance in a tournament like this.  What's the pressure like?  How do you balance all those emotions?
CHARLES HOWELL III: You know, a day like today, when I had it sort of in my control to advance, I felt a bit of pressure out there today to get through it.  Being 2-0 I certainly didn't want to mess this up and was fortunate to get through it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT