WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 22, 2018
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tough match.  You got off to a good start early, he battled back, and it really turned there.  You made a great birdie putt at 15 and closed it out here at 17.
CHARLES HOWELL III: Yeah, Raf and I played each other last year in this.  And I knew it was going to be tough.  Obviously he's one of the European stars.  Yeah, I mean none of these things are easy.  And even right down to the end, you still try to finish it out and get a full point, not just a half.  None of these things are easy for me.
Q. A big win, now.  You get two points going into tomorrow.  You can't relax, but at least you're in the driver's seat.
CHARLES HOWELL III: Yeah, and once again, I have a chance, but I still have to go out and do it.  Man, these things are crazy, especially with this pod play where a guy can lose a match and still keep going.  It makes it great, because every day in this new format matters.
Q. How about the conditions today, any different than yesterday?  Seemed like the winds kicked up a little bit more?
CHARLES HOWELL III: Yeah, I think it was a little bit windier and a slightly different direction, the holes down on the water, when they get really exposed.  The first few holes are inside the trees and in the canyon.  But when these holes get exposed down near the river it's tough.
Q. A different day today.  The wind was changing, so how difficult was it out there?
CHARLES HOWELL III: Well, you're right, a little different direction, a little stronger wind, especially the last holes on the back nine, when they get a little exposed down by the river.  It gets a little tricky.
Q. Tomorrow you have an interesting scenario.  If you get a half a point, if you halve your match, you'll advance to Saturday morning.  How do you go about your business knowing that you only need a half as opposed to needing a victory?
CHARLES HOWELL III: Well, you still have to play hard.  I'm not smart enough to figure all that math out, to be honest with you.  I need to go play hard and play well.  And obviously Phil winning gets him right back in the middle of it.  I need to go do what I need to do.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT