WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 24, 2017
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. We talk about this all the time, week in and week out on the PGA Tour, how difficult is it to win out here?
CHARLES HOWELL III: Well, clearly I find it difficult.  It's hard.  I mean everybody is a great player.  And what happened to Tyrrell on the first green was unfortunate.  We didn't even really know the rule.  If he had put the ball back he would have been fine.  Weird stuff happens in golf.  He was up and down out of last hole out of the hazard and I miss.  And welcome to the game.
Q. Speaking of the miss, when you have a miss like that, and then you have another one on the next hole, what's going through your mind?
CHARLES HOWELL III: Well, I had that exact same putt this morning and it was a bit slower than I thought, and I tried to hit that one firm and obviously hit it too firm.  But this one here is a little easier putt than that one.
Q. Congratulations.  Great to have your kids come out and celebrate with you?
CHARLES HOWELL III: Yeah, I'm sure pretty tired, walking five holes on this mountain course, but it's all good.
Q. Let's talk about this playoff.  Unusual start with Tyrrell Hatton, can you explain that for us?
CHARLES HOWELL III: Yeah, it was bizarre -- obviously he had an eight foot putt to win.  And I ran it by and he went to tap the ball in and his putter hit the ball.  Clearly that we saw that it happened.  What we didn't know that had he moved the ball back to where it was originally, he could have played without a penalty.  We didn't know the rule, I didn't know the rule to stop him in that case, when he went ahead and tapped it in.  Steve came out later to explain that to us, but I had no idea.
Q. I noticed you guys called him back.  It was good sportsmanship.
And then the par-3, bizarre events there, too.  In match play anything can happen, right?
CHARLES HOWELL III: Yeah, and usually I can find a way to make anything happen.  That was the case.  I knew left of the flag if I got it pin-high or past it, it was a brutal two-putt because I had it this morning.  But his ball in the hazard, it's probably not in the water, and he has the backstop to work with, and he made a hell of an up and down to keep it going.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT