VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2016
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Charles Howell, III.  Dropped the shot at 18.  Forget that and go back to 12.  What are your highlights of the day, Charles?  
CHARLES HOWELL, III: I actually had a wedge into the green.  It wasn't a great shot.  This is what happens with golf.  I had a good lie in the bunker.  Stayed on the up-slope.  Wasn't a great second shot but I've forgotten it quickly.   
 Q.  Overall, when you look at the score today, what are you thinking about?  
CHARLES HOWELL, III: I'm surprised the scores aren't lower than they are.  The golf course isn't easy but I thought some guys would get away from it a bit more than that but it's just not playing very easy with the swirling winds and with the wind stays up tomorrow I think single digits will win.   
 Q.  People say, great swing, great technique and you've won a couple times but not since 2007.  It's not easy to win out here.  What do you feel is the reason why you haven't been able to do it more?  
CHARLES HOWELL, III: We don't have enough time here.  Golf.  Obviously work on every bit I think I need to and I work hard at it.  I still enjoy working at it and I don't know but maybe trying to figure out has hurt me more than just playing the game and see what happens.   
 Q.  Good answer.  I'd agree with that.  This time of year, Augusta native, you got a little bit in the press this week, that time leading up to the Masters.  How much would you dearly love to be there?  
CHARLES HOWELL, III: I love it more than anything.  My best shot now is the Drive, Chip and Putt.  I may enter that.  It's the Sunday before.  I can still be on the grounds with golf clubs.  I'll be happy.   
 Q.  You still got a chance tomorrow.  
CHARLES HOWELL, III: You never know at 4-under.  I've got a chance.  It will take 4, 5-under tomorrow which would be a good day around here.  It's doable if it gets going.  Crazier things have happened.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT