VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 10, 2016
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  On a windy day, this golf course with a clean card, that's really being in control.  
CHARLES HOWELL, III: When we started it was blowing pretty good and there's -- yeah, there's no way I thought we would get out there without any bogies.  I think towards the end the wind calmed a bit.  We probably got the better end of the draw today.  It's not usual that the wind lays down sometime in the afternoon here but today I think it did a little bit.   
 Q.  New greens and I thought you had really good touch on them, speed control.  
CHARLES HOWELL, III: We did a lot of lag putting on Tuesday.  I wasn't in the Pro-Am.  Today they seemed to be cut down and they rolled a bit better.  I was actually quite impressed with how they hung up and rolled them, were really good.   
 Q.  How about the wedge you hit into 14?  
CHARLES HOWELL, III: Yeah, that's a nasty pin over there.  I hit the ball over the green so many times.  Fortunately that one stopped for.  You always want to press it back there.  Long is no good.   
 Q.  Your thoughts going into the 2nd Round.  You have an early time, fresh greens.  
CHARLES HOWELL, III: Yeah.  Just keep hanging on, right.  This golf course is so difficult and there's trouble everywhere and I don't expect tomorrow to be a bogey-free day but just try to hang in there.  Pars are good scores.   
 Q.  4-under par today.  How impressed were you with today?  
CHARLES HOWELL, III: I was impressed I got away with no bogies.  Teeing off at 1:30 with the wind humming pretty good I thought a few bogies on the card, to be honest, and the last four, five holes the wind laid down a little bit.   
Pars are good scores.  I'm quite sure it's going to be windy again tomorrow as well.  So, anything around par, if you can sneak a couple birdies in you're ahead.   
 Q.  You mentioned the conditions looking ahead.  Did you feel like you got the better end of the draw today and what do you think about tomorrow?  
CHARLES HOWELL, III: I'm not sure about tomorrow.  We did get the better side of it today.  I don't know what tomorrow will be but I'd say today, especially playing as late as we did, the last four, five holes it calmed down pretty good.   
 Q.  Did anything about the greens surprise you, anything you weren't expecting, a little slower, perhaps?  
CHARLES HOWELL, III: Actually I played Tuesday, I didn't play Wednesday and the greens were smoother than I expected so they did a fantastic job.  Maybe double cutting them, rolling them, but they for sure rolled better today than Tuesday.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
CHARLES HOWELL, III: You never really know what to expect.  Yeah, I've had a lot of nice finishes but I haven't been really up near the top.  So it was nice to get off to a good start here on a place like this.  I'm not sure what the rest of the week will hold but to actually play a nice round today on a tough golf course is good for my confidence.   
 Q.  They made a comment on television -- they may be completely making stuff up -- that you were hitting the ball, your irons great on the range today.  Would you agree with that and did you carry that on to the golf course if that's true?  
CHARLES HOWELL, III: I had a nice warm up.  But, this golf course always felt a bit like a Major-esq to me especially, you know, you look at PGA National and that type of golf course here.  You know, they're really challenging where -- and Major-esq.   
In the, that's a good score on a lot of holes especially with the wind like today.  I was surprised to get out of there today with no bogies, to be honest.  I don't expect many more of that.  But, to at least do it today was good.   
 Q.  Shot on 8, one of the better ones today?  
CHARLES HOWELL, III: It was actually.  That's a nasty par 3 especially playing that much into the wind and but, yeah, that was one of the ones where you're aiming in the middle of the green and you pull it a little bit and then you act like you tried to aim there.   
 Q.  How would you describe your year to date?  
CHARLES HOWELL, III: It's been pretty good.  I've had a lot of nice finishes.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT