CAREERBUILDER CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 23, 2016
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about your bogey-free round today.  Birdies on either, two birdies on either side and an eagle.  
CHARLES HOWELL, III: Well, yeah, it was, we played in perfect conditions again.  I think this is the calmest I've ever played La Quinta, so you couldn't ask for any better.  And going out early, the greens were a bit softer, so they were a bit receptive.  But the place can get tricky.  But when the wind's down like this, you can make a score for sure.   
 Q.  With no wind and pristine greens, do you feel like you got a good score in for the course as you could?  
CHARLES HOWELL, III: I looked at the scores the last couple days and there have been some low ones out here.  But I've also in the years past played this place on windy days and it's tricky.  So, yeah, with the way the conditions were today you needed to make some birdies or you were going to get passed pretty fast.   
 Q.  Talk to me about your eagle on 11 there.  
CHARLES HOWELL, III: Well, yeah, I hit a drive, a touch to the right there in the rough, but was able to get the ball on the green and made a 40 foot putt for eagle.  That was important to just kind of get the day going.  Starting out at 9-under par, obviously I knew I needed to play well today.  But starting there, it's you just can't par the par-5s out here.  So you make three, four, whatever, it's just important to take advantage of those and to do that at the second hole out for the day it was a perfect start to the day, really.   
 Q.  In terms of keeping your round, saving it on the last hole there how big was that up-and-down?  
CHARLES HOWELL, III: It's important, right?  If you make bogeys around here on a day like today, it's, you're really getting passed.  So that was important there for tomorrow and, obviously I'll be a bit back tomorrow, but playing the Stadium Course again, it's still relatively new to a lot of guys, so it's going to be setup challenging I'm quite sure, so we won't see the scores we did from Palmer, but then again if the wind's down like this, I think that a guy can come from behind and make something happen.   
 Q.  As it stands right now you're seven back.  
CHARLES HOWELL, III: Well, he's playing phenomenal golf.  So it looks like it's his for the taking.  So if he goes out there and has any kind of a day tomorrow, he's going to win the golf tournament.  But our job's to go out there and play well and do what we, control what we can control, really.  On the Stadium, the golf course gets your attention enough.   
 Q.  Given there's a lot of shots to drop there on the Stadium, say somebody has a bad round, do you feel like you're still in contention to win this thing or realistically taking top-5?  
CHARLES HOWELL, III: It would take a lot to happen.  I don't know, except I need to go play well and then they can worry about that.   
 Q.  Talk to me overall about how comfortable you are at this tournament.  You've had a good track record here.  
CHARLES HOWELL, III: I played here a lot of years.  It's the start of the year, you get weather like this most of the time, which is great.  But there's still, guys are still knocking off a bit of competitive rust.  Because we haven't played a lot of golf over the last couple months, competitive golf that is.  So guys are still knocking a bit of that off and but we do have golf courses where you can make birdies and play your way into things and, yeah, I think that all things in and now with the Stadium Course, with some teeth in it, it's going to be a fun day to watch tomorrow.   
 Q.  Where do you rate your form right now?  
CHARLES HOWELL, III: It's just getting there.  There's always some stuff that you want to work on and nag at, but yeah I worked a bunch this winter but it's getting there.  It's always working on something though.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT