SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 2, 2015
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   6-under, 66 in the first round.   Was it a as stress-free as it seemed to be?  
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   No, golf is never stress-free.   I wish it was.   At least for me, anyway.   No, the golf course was fairly getable this morning.   The greens were a little bit softer than they have been in years past.   That was a bit of a plus.   The wind can come up here at anytime and it still gets tricky out there.  
   
 Q.   Bogey-free, that's always a nice way to go around.  
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   I managed to hit a few greens today, which was nice.   Around here there's so many hazards and you got to watch yourself.   And if you can drive the ball well, you can take advantage of it and -- long way to go.  
   
 Q.   Was the wind picking up a little bit on your last few holes?  
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   Yeah, it blew a bit early.   Laid down a bit and started to pick up a little bit.   You kind of expect it here.   Even on the few holes you want it a little bit back behind you on 17 and 18.   I don't think we minded that.  
   
 Q.   Obviously this time of year your story with Augusta, can you talk a little bit about your history in the Masters?  
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   Well, obviously growing up there, yes, it's the one tournament I want to be in more than any.   It's a big deal.   But with that said, it's a big deal for everybody.   Currently I'm not even qualified for the drive, chip and putt.   I've got some work ahead of me.  
   
 Q.   Speaking of the state of your game, how are you feeling right now?  
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   My game has been okay.   I haven't put four good rounds together this year.   I've had a few good ones and some average one.   I still like to put four together.   I've had some nice weeks in Florida coming into here.   So yeah, obviously this week is sort of nothing to lose for me to try to get into next week.   But yeah, I'm quite happy with how things are.  
   
 Q.   Anything in particular you've been working on?  
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   A lot of work on the short game.   You know, seemingly the players that are playing really well, you know, lot of their stats around the greens are pretty eye-opening how good they are.   Quite a bit of work on that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT