HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 18, 2014
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Charles, you gave it a run there the last couple of holes, the eagle at 16, birdies at 17 and maybe just a little aggressive there at 18? 
CHARLES HOWELL III:   Well, yeah, the eagle at 16, I wasn't expecting that.   That's just golf for you, how that stuff happens. 
Nice 2 on 17 and 18 I struggled with my speed on putts a little bit this week and I definitely wasn't going to leave that first one short.   I haven't found myself in that position here recently, so I wasn't going to miss that putt short, if I did miss it, but two nice shots on 18 and that's‑‑ yeah, I mean, obviously would have liked to have hit it over again but that's just part of it. 

Q.   Kind of a rocky first nine.   You got off to a good start, 4 birdies, 2 bogeys, and you've already talked about the finish.   How do you think you started? 
CHARLES HOWELL III:   I made the birdies, nice start on 1 and 2, and then I made the bogey on 3, which I shouldn't have made, yeah, and that's how this golf course is, there are so many cross winds out here that the golf course is quite difficult that way.   I knew today would be the windiest of the four days and it would be tough to shoot well under par and 3‑under today I thought would have been a good score the start of the day. 

Q.   Did you look up at the leaderboard to see if you made a birdie at 18 you would made it a little interesting? 
CHARLES HOWELL III:   I did, but‑‑ well I looked at the leaderboard when I made 3 on 16 because I‑‑ that's just golf, right?   I usually watch other people on TV do that stuff. 
Yeah, I looked at the leaderboard but Brendon is playing fantastic golf and when you get to 14‑under par on this golf course you're doing a lot of things good. 

Q.   What's your schedule in the next month in?
CHARLES HOWELL III:   Well this is my fifth week in a row.   I'm going to have next week off and then play in Memphis‑‑ I'm sorry the Memorial and then Memphis in the next two weeks. 

Q.   U.S. Open? 
CHARLES HOWELL III:   I'm on the bubble in the world rankings, so we'll see. 

Q.   Not the finish you wanted but a final round of 67.   What do you take away from it? 
CHARLES HOWELL III:   It was an eventful last four holes.   I didn't think I was going to be 5‑3‑2‑5, but, yeah, you know, this golf course is a challenge.   There are so many holes out here that are in cross winds and I did a better job today and this week of controlling my ball.   Yeah, the putt on 18, I wasn't going to leave it short and I over‑read it but that's part of it. 

Q.   What was it like to get back in the mix, back nine on Sunday in contention? 
CHARLES HOWELL III:   When you find yourself not in the mix, you kinda wonder if you'll ever get back there again and this is a hard game.   These players are so good it's a challenge.   So I've learned to appreciate the times I'm up there and try to take advantage of them.   And in the hard times you just keep working and keep believing and try and find yourself there again. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Charles.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT