SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 31, 2013
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Another good bogey-free round, solid play.
CHARLES HOWELL III:   Well, it was a nice finish.   Probably not quite good enough for what I need to go to Augusta, but you know, I played well.   I gave myself a chance.

Q.   Great effort.
CHARLES HOWELL III:   It was a good effort, but unfortunately good efforts don't get that invitation to Augusta, so, I played well.   I gave myself a chance out there, and I thought I needed probably 8-under today and that looks like that may be correct.

Q.   Will you allow yourself to look back here or there, whether this week or previous weeks and say if I had done just something a little bit different?
CHARLES HOWELL III:   No, because I played well this year.   I'm not going to go down the road of disappointment.   I played good.   I would love to be in the golf tournament, so would 300 million other golfers.   I can't -- you know, I played well this year and, you know, I'm going to watch the tournament on TV.   It's just horrible to watch on TV, to be honest.

Q.   Any thoughts about -- I know you're not in the field next week.   What was the thought process behind that?
CHARLES HOWELL III:   Because I thought my best chance of getting in was Top 50 world rank.   I played a ton of golf.   I'm a little tired, to be honest.   I've played a boat-load of tournaments trying to get into Augusta, and I thought my best chance was Top 50 world rankings for this week and, you know, prepared for it as best I could.   So, gave it a shot.

Q.   You had the math all figured out in your head before you went out, obviously?
CHARLES HOWELL III:   Yeah.   I don't know that an MIT grad can figure out the world ranking system, but the best I could tell, it was 4th place or better.   So, I figured that, yeah.   I figured it would be 13-under, but we'll see.

Q.   Was there any good missed opportunities today for more birdies, or did you make everything that was realistic?
CHARLES HOWELL III:   There was plenty out there.   Golfers always look back at that stuff.   It's over now.   I had 6-under.   Thank you. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT