FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 24, 2013
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your short game had to be incredible today.   It's not a negative thing, just two fairways, though, and lots of tees.   What was going right for you after the tee shot?   
    CHARLES HOWELL III:   It's hard to keep the balls in the fairway on the North Course, and I know that going in.   So it's more about what side you miss them on, and I was able to miss them in the right places.   
    Yeah, you've got to score.   You have to take advantage of the par‑5s because they're reachable.   And I was able to go out with an eagle on one of them.   But, like I said, the real one is tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   To me it's most impressive you're coming off that playoff at Humana, and players talk about how mentally fatiguing that can be, whether win or lose, just being in that situation.   Mentally, are you a little bit tired?   
    CHARLES HOWELL III:   No.   As any parent could attest, I have a 2‑year‑old and a 1‑year‑old.   That's fatiguing.   This is golf.   I was excited the start I got off to I didn't hang my head.   I really can't.   There is not much you can do about it.   
    I'm excited to be here.   I love San Diego, and we've had nice days and weather so far.   Got lucky today.   So this is only the third week of the year, I'm not tired yet.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
    CHARLES HOWELL III:   I don't know, actually.   A bit of it is excited to get off to the start of the season.   You know, the weather in Florida is fairly similar to the weather here.   We don't quite have these views in Orlando.   
    But I think it's exciting to get off to a good start this year.   I've been practicing at home, and I'm ready to get going.   I would probably attribute it to that.  
   
 Q.   So you have nine straight sub‑70 rounds.   (Indiscernible) to what do you attribute that?   
    CHARLES HOWELL III:   A few things, it's a crazy game, number one, and you've got to realize that.   Number two, we're doing a lot of work with Gary Gilchrist, and he's simplified things for me, I would say.   We haven't done a ton of technical work, but we've talked about how I think on the golf course and what I'm trying to do, the shots I'm trying to hit, and then balancing out my practice with the short game and long game and doing a better job of that.  
   
 Q.   Last Sunday you said something that was really interesting.   "Anybody who says that golf is fun doesn't play it for a living."   
    CHARLES HOWELL III:   That's right.  
   
 Q.   How would you describe competitive golf on the back nine on a Sunday?   
    CHARLES HOWELL III:   It's, I would say, it isn't what you would call fun in the essence of, hey, I'm going to go Scuba dive today and it's 88 ° outside, let's have fun.   It isn't fun in that sense.   But it's a different kind of fun, and a fun that there's a possibility to win a golf tournament.   
    But the competitiveness of it, that stuff sort of takes over.   So it's not, not fun, but it's not the kind of fun of, hey, let's go Scuba diving.  
   
 Q.   Okay.   Is it fun when you're able to master it and control it?   Is that sort of what makes it fun?   
    CHARLES HOWELL III:   I think that's what makes it addicting, and I'm sure Tiger could answer that question a whole lot better than I could.   But, yeah, it's just different.   It is not anywhere near the same as going out at home on a Sunday afternoon with some buddies and playing golf and enjoying yourself, at least for me.   I've never been able to feel and think of it that way.   
    At some point in time, this is a job, and it's something that we all love to do because we play golf for a reason, but it's not the same as a casual round at home with buddies.  
   
 Q.   Is that what Gary is maybe trying to get you to the point where you can look at any round and approach it with that?   
    CHARLES HOWELL III:   I think he's just trying‑‑ I think a lot of golfers try to bridge the gap of how to play if I was playing out here with a bunch of buddies or I was back home.   I think that's the ultimate challenge is to try to kind of mix that, and it's a challenge.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT