SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 11, 2013
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You shoot a 66 on Thursday, and then before you tee off in the second round, you're ten shots back.   What's going through your mind at that point?
CHARLES HOWELL III:   That these young kids are good.   No, I woke up this morning and had breakfast and was kind of looking at the computer a little bit, and I see these scores going through the roof.   Man, this course isn't that easy.   I didn't see a 14‑under.

Q.   You have had a lot of success here, two runner‑up finishes, last year to Johnson Wagner and in 2007 to Paul Goydos.   What is it about this course that you like so much?
CHARLES HOWELL III:   I don't know, actually.   I think I like being here.   I think I like that it's the first week of the year and I'm excited to start, have generally worked on the game in the off‑season a bit, so I'm excited to play.   But other than that, I really don't know.   I wish I had a reason. 

Q.   It seems like we're in this position every year. 
CHARLES HOWELL III:   Well, I hope it continues.   You know, today was a good day.   Yeah, I hung in there in the start and made some nice pars early in the round to keep it going a bit, and then had a nice run on 8, 9 and 10.   You know, I feel like there's a few holes where you have to play well and there's a couple holes you've got to take advantage of, and fortunately today I did that.

Q.   Took advantage of the 16th, too, after getting a favorable ruling. 
CHARLES HOWELL III:   Yeah, that was a bad drive there.   That's just golf; sometimes rules help you, sometimes they hurt you. 

Q.   You were the one that took advantage of a good ruling in your favor.   You converted the birdie and then another nice birdie to finish out the round. 
CHARLES HOWELL III:   Yeah, the 18th hole in this wind direction you need to make 4 on.   I hit a nice drive there.   I'm surprised the ball went in the rough, but that's a tough fairway to keep it in, too. 

Q.   You've been in contention here so many times, but you have yet to hoist the trophy.   Is there anything you'll do different this weekend looking back on past years?
CHARLES HOWELL III:   No, just keep playing.   There's so many good players.   I didn't see 14‑under out here through two rounds, that's for sure, so obviously those guys were playing really well.   No, just keep playing.   I'm the old man trying to catch them. 

Q.   You just keep putting yourself in contention enough times, you are going to win this tournament eventually. 
CHARLES HOWELL III:   Well, I would like to, but I've got to keep playing.   There's 36 more holes left, and those young kids are good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT