CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK HOSPITALS CLASSIC
November 9, 2012
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You did a lot of work yesterday to where making this kind of round happen with a 4‑under round on the other course.   Then this one really just kind of came to you and great finish.
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   Well, thank you.   You know, I was pleased to get in at 4‑under yesterday at the Mag because obviously it's the more difficult of the two. 
But you know, this morning it was still a bit chilly.   The first two holes didn't quite feel like Orlando. 
But you know, it was nice.   I hung in there.   I had a nice Back 9 to finish the day, so we're in decent position for the weekend.   It's going to take a lot of birdies.   I think the weather is going to warm up a bit.   But we're in decent position.

Q.   And you have played well lately.   Nice Top 10 up at McGladrey and you kind of got things going, a little momentum.
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   It's getting better.   It's going in the right direction.   I spent a lot of time working on it and unfortunately had a couple weeks off in the PLAYOFFS to work on it, but yeah, I've had a nice Fall Series which is good and that's what I wanted to have prior to going into the off season to do some work, but it's just nice to have a bit of confidence.

Q.   I was going to say, this has been such a weird year for you.   You nearly won right off the bat at Sony, and then you've been kind of up and down and then your second Top 10 comes a couple of weeks ago.   You get a little momentum here, you can look forward to 2013.   Is that kind of how you're looking at it?
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   Yeah.   I finished second out of the gate, and I played like a dog the rest of the year pretty much.   And finally started to play better.
But I'm excited about the stuff I'm doing.   I'm excited about the stuff I'm working on, and I'm trying to get ready for next year.   That's what we're doing.   But obviously still have two more important days to go, so nothing to lose now.

Q.   Let's get you two more important days so that you can play in that week before the Sony?
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   No one would be happier than I to start a week early.

Q.   Is this on your list as far as trying to break into the Top 30, looking at projected and knowing what goes along with that success and everything.
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   Well, to be fair, I went into the Fall Series to try to get some confidence going to prepare in the off season to play better for next year.   Finished second in Hawaii and didn't have another Top 10 all year until the fall.   So it was a struggle this year.   So I sort of went to these events to let's get something going and get some confidence, and I've played well the last couple of them.   So I've played a little bit better than I thought I would the last few weeks, but I'm getting some confidence back, which is always good.   And I'm much more positive going into my off‑season practice than I was if I had ended just right after the FedExCup.

Q.   Knowing I think you missed last year by a stroke?
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   That's correct.   Yes.

Q.   That would actually just be a bonus.
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   It would be a big bonus, and like I said, I almost won.   I wasn't really even thinking about it a few weeks ago, but I can let myself think about it a little bit. 
But there's still a long way to go, especially here at this tournament.   The scores get really low on the weekend, it seems like.   And with the weather getting warmer, it'll take two low ones. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT