THE MCGLADREY CLASSIC
October 20, 2012
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Charles Howell, 3‑under par 67, tell me about your day.  
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   Well, you know, we had really good weather for scoring, once again.   But wind was a little bit, but the holes where it did blow on, we could take advantage of some of the par‑5s; they were both downwind.   And yeah, I played those holes well, which is important, and hung in there on the others.  
   
 Q.   Talking about the par‑5s, I had great delight watching you make that long one on No. 7.   
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   I think that's the longest putt I've made all year.   
Yeah, the long putts out here on these greens you're just trying to get the speed right.   As you've seen out there, a lot of the holes on the edges with some slopes going away, so I was just trying to get the speed right there; and it was right.   We're always fortunate when it goes in, but I would have taken a 2‑putt from the beginning.  
   
 Q.   I really enjoyed the way you struck the ball.   Obviously you must be feeling some good form coming in from Frys.com.   You hit the flag stick on 10.   How are you feeling with the golf swing?  
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   It's getting a lot better.   I finally played well last week at Frys, which is the first time I've played well in a while, and that was nice.   It was nice to get a bit of confidence from seeing some results.  
So I was excited to come here.   I played well here before.   I like the golf course.   So I was excited to get here, but then again, you never know with this game.  
   
 Q.   We have been waiting for someone to break the tournament record held by this man, Charles Howell.   Tell me about your round today, though, the eagle on 7, which jump started it.   And now you're in a position to think about winning this golf tournament.  
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   It's nice to play with a couple of good guys today, in Vijay.   It's my third day in a row playing with him, so it's nice to follow his lead.  
The eagle on 7, I think it was maybe the longest putt I've holed this year and just trying to get the speed right, and in this crazy game sometimes they go in.  
   
 Q.   Overall, we talk a lot about how the expectations for you and your career were ratcheted up so high when you were young.   What do you think about how you've handled this year and what you've achieved over your career?  
CHARLES HOWELL, III:   Well, I haven't played very well this year.   It's nice to play good at Frys last week, but I really haven't played that well this year.  
As to my career, I've had a pretty good career, but I'm just getting old now.   There are so many young guys out here.   I'm just old.  
   
 Q.   Well, you may have a chance to show the young guys something tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT