TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 22, 2019
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHARLES HOWELL, III: You start off 10 back and bogey two of the first three, 12 back pretty fast. As the day went on, though, and the scores, they started shuffling around, it felt more like a normal event as the day kept on. I mean, guys in my spot have nothing to lose. We can only move up or stay the same. But the guys at the top, man, they're playing under quite a bit more pressure. Say what you want, when there's that amount of money on the line, it's definitely enough to make you think about it.
Q. We always talk about, when it comes to you and Augusta National and the Masters, how important was it for you to be back here for the first time since '11?
CHARLES HOWELL, III: Well, it was just great, because that golf tournament, I find it extremely hard to get into. I found multiple ways to miss out on it. And when you look at it, if you don't win a tournament, really the only avenue is top 50 in the world, and I'm just outside of that, so top 30 kind of is it. With the number of wins in my career, I don't like my chances of winning one between now and Augusta, so this was my best way to do it.
It's just great for that. The WGCs that -- it gets you into the U.S. Open, et cetera. So for a guy not inside the top 50 or comfortably inside the top 50, this is the next best thing.
Q. Do you feel like because it's only on strokes and not anything about scenarios and you've got to wait for other guys to position, that kind of clarity makes it just easier to play golf than it has in previous playoffs here?
CHARLES HOWELL, III: Yes and no. I mean, there's still an element of the thing where you tee off 10 back or 3 back, whatever it may be. I'm just glad they didn't start the leader off at even and us at plus 10. I think that would have been even more humiliating.
I mean, I think it makes it easier come Sunday to figure out everything. And from a fan's perspective, I think that will clear some of that up. I think all these questions will be answered on Monday, when everything is over and shuffled out, et cetera. If I were a guy at the top, if I were Justin Thomas, I would be more upset than me in my position. Because Justin's played phenomenal golf and has done what he's done, and he could theoretically fall quite a bit, and I could move up, and he's played better than I have.
From the people in my perspective, this is a better system than last year. From the guys at the very top, I'd be a little more upset.
Q. Could you see going into Sunday where half the field has a chance to win the FedExCup? Rory said he could see where 15 guys could challenge -- you know, if the leaderboard is bunched.
CHARLES HOWELL, III: It all depends on a lot of things, but there's a possibility of it, sure. There's a possibility now for a playoff for a whole lot of money, right? So, yeah, for sure there's the possibility. But, I mean, then again, those guys can run away from it, and we'll pick up the scraps.
Q. Just out of curiosity, when did you stop playing for money?
CHARLES HOWELL, III: I don't know that I ever started playing for money. Like I just started playing golf because I really liked it. And then I went to Oklahoma State to play for Mike Holder to see if I was good enough to keep playing. Yeah, there was never -- you know, I've choked and puckered up on a whole lot of things. It's never really been money, though. It was either getting a TOUR card or finishing an event to get into another event or whatever it may be. But, yeah, I don't ever think about this shot equals this money. Maybe I find golf too difficult to even think that far ahead.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT