WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 9, 2012
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Just comment on your day for us?
CHARLES HOWELL III:   Well, it was windy again, but a bit less than the last few days.   I felt like it was a little more scorable today.   But it's not often you look up and see a 62 at Doral.   I didn't think it was that scorable.   But it was a little more gettable today than yesterday for sure, and fortunate to take somewhat advantage of it. 

Q.   Birdies that stand out today? 
CHARLES HOWELL III:   You know, it sounds odd, but I got off to a nice start, and you know you need to out here.   With obviously No. 1, there was a lot of birdies there, but birdieing the first two holes, that's obviously very doable, but to get off to a nice start just sort of gets‑‑ because 3 and 4 are two strong holes after that.
Yeah, just the start got me calmed down a bit. 

Q.   Is this the type of course where you feel like you almost have to birdie 1, certainly, and then birdie 2 or you're losing ground?
CHARLES HOWELL III:   Definitely it's in the back of your mind because you have an idea of what's coming.   And then again on the back nine, you would like to take advantage of some of those holes in the middle of the back because you know 18 is around the corner, which is about a par 4 and a half. 
18 is playing a little bit easier than yesterday, though.   I thought yesterday was very difficult. 

Q.   Although the hole location seems to limit the birdies on 18, I don't know there's been maybe one?
CHARLES HOWELL III:   Robert made one, I think he might have got a skin. 

Q.   The morning rain, did that have any effect, or was the easier play strictly wind‑driven, or not driven? 
CHARLES HOWELL III:   Well, even yesterday, the greens were not terribly firm, but windier.   But we have seen the same direction every day, so I think the guys are a little bit more used to it, a little bit more used to how the holes were playing, but you've still got to play a hell of a round of golf to shoot 62 and 64, whatever they shot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT