SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 13, 2012
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You keep shooting 67 every round this year, you're going to be a very wealthy man.   
CHARLES HOWELL III:   Well, I'll be a lot happier, I know that.   It played a little tougher today.   The wind picked up a bit more.   It's a squirrelly golf course.   It's hard to get the ball in the fairways out here.   It's hard to keep them in the fairways.   You can land them but they're not going to stay in them very often.   It takes a lot of thinking.  
   
 Q.   We have you unofficially hitting 3 of 14 fairways in the second round.   
CHARLES HOWELL III:   Yeah, like I said, it's hard to keep the ball in them.   I landed it in a lot more of them, but with the doglegs and the crosswinds you've got to know what side to miss it on for the golf course to be playable.   Yeah, it's tricky out there.   
   
 Q.   You must have really managed your game well to hit three fairways and yet shoot 3‑under par.   
CHARLES HOWELL III:   Yeah, it's not the first time I've only hit three fairways around here.  
   
 Q.   What is it about this golf course that fits your eye?   
CHARLES HOWELL III:   I don't know actually, because I generally like golf courses that are bigger where you can hit a bunch of drivers and things of that nature.   I really don't know.   Partly because it's this time of the year.   I enjoy practicing in the off‑season.   I'm excited to get back.   I really don't know.   But for whatever reason I do seem to like it.   
It might be in my best interest to find out why.  
   
 Q.   Have you had any fun out here away from the golf course?  
CHARLES HOWELL III:   No, I'm here by myself.   The family stayed back at home, so I'm just here to work.   I'm not here to play.   
   
 Q.   How did you feel coming into the week?   Did you feel rested?   Were you worried about it at all?  
CHARLES HOWELL III:   Yeah, I was excited coming into the week because I worked a bunch in the off‑season.   I enjoy doing that.   But it still is the first week of the year, and there's always a bit of the beginning‑of‑the‑year nerves, and there's always a bit of competitive rust having not played a tournament for so long, and I'm sure everybody feels that.   But it goes away pretty quickly.  
   
 Q.   Work on anything specific?  
CHARLES HOWELL III:   Everything, just everything.   It's such a fickle game, as soon as you think you've got one area good, another area pops up.   So just everything.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT