JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 14, 2019
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Very solid finish.  How do you look at today's round?  
CHARLES HOWELL III: Well, wasn't really doing much until No. 14 and made a nice, long putt there for a two and kind of glad the hole got in the way on that one.  The golf course is awesome and the whole week has been great.  It's the best in 20 years I've ever seen this golf course, and firm and fast, and the greens were getting firm.  It couldn't have been better.   
 Q.  I think this is your best finish in 20 years.  The conditions certainly reflect your finish, as well?  
CHARLES HOWELL III: You know, it's hard to say.  I just -- it's tough to say.  I think everybody likes the golf course playing this way.  Granted you can't control Mother Nature and thunderstorms and rain, but yeah, when the golf course gets bouncy and firm and you have to start thinking your way around it, and some of the corner hole locations aren't really accessible, it was just great all week.   
 Q.  There are a lot of people who don't like it this way and it's too easy a golf course.  Is there something they could do to make it more challenging for you guys?  
CHARLES HOWELL III: The low score still wins.  I don't think anybody needs to spends a whole bunch of month to lengthen the golf course or add hazards or whatever it may be.  No, the golf course is wonderful, and we've had great finishers here.  I mean, Bryson, Jordan Spieth, just go on down the list of the winners we've had here.  Of all the TPC rotations, this is one of, if not the best one.   
No, there's no reason, somebody is still going to win this afternoon on the 18th hole and it's going to be the lowest score and it will be fine.   
 Q.  Some guys have used this as a springboard into next week.  Zach won the British a couple weeks ago and Francesco last year.  Where do you feel you're at after a strong performance?  
CHARLES HOWELL III: My game is okay good.  There's a few things I need to work on, especially it's dramatically different golf, so to speak, over there, and it will be about learning the golf course.   
Yeah, find something way to get the ball in play in the Opens is just so critical.  It's a place I've never been.  It's a place I'm excited to see and learn it.   
 Q.  How do you manage yourself knowing you've got a transatlantic flight?  
CHARLES HOWELL III: John Deere does so good for us.  The charter, it's great.  I mean, they make it as easy as possible.  Some guys will like to play over there early.  I like this golf tournament.  It's a place that special to me.  I still think every event is important and is critical, so I don't ever look past this to go to another one.  I promise you, the guy that wins here today, this event is going to be extremely special and mean and do a lot for their career.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT