JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 7, 2011
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Pair of sixes. You've figured something out, haven't you?
 CHARLES HOWELL, III: Well, I guess. You know, this is a crazy game, and you know, I like the venues that we've been playing. I really liked Memphis there. I liked Aronimink where we were at the last week, and obviously this place is pretty special to me as well, so yeah, it's funny when you like the venue and the game starts coming around a little bit, it's good.

 Q. Bogey free. You eagled 17. You really played a heck of a round. 
 CHARLES HOWELL, III: It was nice playing with Josh who was playing well, kind of got each other going a little bit there. It took us toward the middle end of the round to start going, but with Josh making some birdies and holing some putts, we pushed each other along.

 Q. What kind of transition do you make after last week, that Donald Ross design, very unique, and this is totally different, the other end of the scale?
 CHARLES HOWELL, III: Yeah. You know, last week a lot of holes -- par was a good score. A lot of the flags were tucked up against the edges. This week it does have its difficult holes and it has its holes you better make birdie on. And we saw Stricker last year shoot, what, 60, 62 the first two rounds, so you better not stop making birdies. 

 Q. And you're putting well. 
 CHARLES HOWELL, III: Yeah. Putting's better. I went to a belly putter a few weeks ago, and I did practice with one at home for a while, but it's really helped. I guess they're not for everybody and whatnot. I never thought I'd use one, but it's helped.

 Q. Keep it going. Great to see you playing well. 
 CHARLES HOWELL, III: Thank you. 

 Q. Being one of the first groups off probably was a little bit of an advantage for you, wasn't it?
 CHARLES HOWELL, III: It was, actually. It was nice to get nine holes of perfect green, not that the greens are bad by any stretch, but no spike marks, no anything. It's nice to have nine perfect holes of that. 
 And then we didn't have very much wind till the end. So this golf course does give up some birdies and low scores, but it was awful nice to be out first.

 Q. So you're 5-under, two back now, unless I see Love just birdied again, but in a good position do you feel?
 CHARLES HOWELL, III: Oh, yeah. It'll take, 20, 22-under to win here, so I think everybody is -- you can't quit making birdies. You can't just have one good round and sort of coast. You do need to keep pushing.
 But the golf course is in great shape, and I think it'll keep giving up low scores.

 Q. What was it that was really working for you out there today?
 CHARLES HOWELL, III: It was actually nice playing with Josh Teater, who also shot 5-under, sort of pushed each other along and holed some nice putts coming in, and yeah, it was nice playing with another guy who was kind of pushing you along. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT