AT&T NATIONAL
July 3, 2011
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Bogey-free on a golf course like this is great. Shooting 4-under bogey-free on a golf course like this has got to feel good, especially on a Sunday. 
 CHARLES HOWELL III: Yeah, I like the golf course. It fits my eye well. I liked it when which came here last year. I think it's one of the top three golf courses that we play all year. I just like the way it goes. Par is a good score, but when you make birdies you move up, and it's nice to play an event like that.

 Q. And making some great up-and-downs to save par, that's what keeps the momentum going. Tell me about those two on 17 and 18. 
 CHARLES HOWELL III: Yeah, well, the one on 17 I had a long two-putt there from the front of the green, and then 18 I probably got a little bit too aggressive there with that sand wedge, trying to get it close. But I was trying to make 3 there.
 But the golf course does that. If you drive the ball well, you can have wedges and try to get it close, but I think it's just a wonderful test.
 They protect the golf course with the pins. You've got a lot of corner pins and it makes you think. Even with a wedge, sand wedge in your hand, you're still playing away from a lot of them and still having to think. You can see there's a few guys out there at 12-, 13-under, but it's not easy. 

 Q. Do you try to hold yourself back from being aggressive?
 CHARLES HOWELL III: Well, I think the golf course is hard enough that you just have to take what it'll give you. A lot of times it just doesn't even allow you to be ultra-aggressive with it. There are times out there, yeah, where maybe I'd like to be aggressive but the golf course doesn't allow it and you've just got to keep going.

 Q. Were you pretty aware of your position today?
 CHARLES HOWELL III: Well, I was pretty aware of it. It was in the back of my head, but it doesn't mean anything. It definitely doesn't help you play better, I know that much. The most important thing was playing well here and trying to make a run. It is a hard enough golf course where guys could make bogeys and come backwards, so you just don't know what could have happened.

 Q. What do you take out of this weekend going forward? 
 CHARLES HOWELL III: My game is improving. I played well a couple weeks ago, and it was nice to have two weeks off and then come back and play well this week. It was disappointing missing the U.S. Open, having to watch that on TV. But I had two weeks to work on the game and break away, and I'm glad to come back and play well afterwards. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT