ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 30, 2011
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   CHARLES HOWELL III: The golf course is set up to make some birdies today. There were some friendly hole locations out there where you could definitely get it and get after it. 
 Fortunately, I holed some nice putts and had a nice chip-in there on 17 for birdie. It was definitely out there to score.

 Q. You seem to play well in this tournament every time. You make the cut every year. Does this course fit your eye? 
 CHARLES HOWELL III: Yeah, I like it here a lot. The folks at Zurich do a great job. It's great to have an event here in New Orleans. It's a wonderful city. A lot of the guys enjoy coming here and enjoy the restaurants and the food et cetera. It's a wonderful event, and I like the whole part of it.

 Q. The greens seem like they're really firm and drying up a little bit. Is that the case?
 CHARLES HOWELL III: Yeah, they're definitely drying out. They're getting firmer and getting bouncy, which is how the golf course should be. It almost has a links feel to it when it gets really hard and fast. They're firming up and that's good. That's how it needs be.

 Q. Five on 15, only bad hole of the day.
 CHARLES HOWELL III: That's just golf.

 Q. You rallied pretty good though and hit a couple birdies here at the end. How do you just kind of forget all that? 
 CHARLES HOWELL III: That's part of the game. So you've got to find a way to keep going and keep playing. I knew the tee was up on 17 and 18 is a birdiable hole. So you just hang in there. There is a long way to go.

 Q. A beautiful chip on 18 as well there. Did you purposely lay it up there? 
 CHARLES HOWELL III: Yeah, the wind on the second shot wasn't helping quite as much as I would have hoped to get up to the green. But it was a nice angle I had. Of course the ball on the fairway, I had a good angle at it. You've got to take advantage of the par-5s out here.

 Q. Did you find number 12 very hard today? 
 CHARLES HOWELL III: Yeah. It's playing back into the wind. It's a long hole, but it's playing back in off the left. Yeah, you make a four there and you're not losing any ground in the field.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT