ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 26, 2011
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You were hanging in there. 
 CHARLES HOWELL III: Yeah, I played well today. I didn't quite score as well as I probably should have or could have, but it played difficult out there, just enough wind came up that made it real interesting and the greens got a bit firmer than yesterday.

 Q. How hard is it to stay patient when they scored well in the morning?
 CHARLES HOWELL III: It's hard to get the ball close this afternoon I think. You don't see many guys late in the day shooting low. And it will probably be the same tomorrow. It's just really difficult to get it close to those corner flags with the greens as firm as they are. But, you know what, if you hold the putts, you can still get it. 

 Q. The lie in the bunker on 18, what was your reasoning where you had to aim? 
 CHARLES HOWELL III: The ball, I couldn't go at the flag. Although it did land in the bunker it one-hopped in there and still buried. There was a lot of sand in the bunkers this week. You've seen a lot of buried balls and I guess it's just part of it. It's a hazard. But I couldn't go at the flag. 

 Q. Do you entertain thoughts -- regarding the tournament in your hometown, if you got the win? 
 CHARLES HOWELL III: Yeah, I mean, obviously it's in the back of the mind of a lot of guys. I think about it but it doesn't -- it doesn't help the shot at hand. It definitely -- and I don't know that I need anymore motivation. But yeah, I do think about it. There's this week and next, but yeah, it's a wonderful tournament to play in. It's a hard tournament to get in. But it's just hard to stay home watching that tournament on TV. Granted, it's good television, but it is hard to stay home. 

 Q. As far as not thinking about it, you said it doesn't --
 CHARLES HOWELL III: This time of year it's hard not to think about it, yeah. You start the season, early in the year on the West Coast, you know, it's easier not to think about it. As it approaches, springtime, the tournaments in Florida, yeah, it's hard not to think about it. .
 Granted, it's been a couple of years since the redo here, but these pins are quite a bit different than last year. I know they have got some spots now that they have grown on the greens that they can use, etc., but the course sets up awfully difficult. 10-, 11-under whatever they are at is a heck of a score. It's tough to get it close. 

 Q. Given that, is it hard to make up five shots, or is it one of those things --
 CHARLES HOWELL III: It's hard to make up unless you're putting well. If you can hole a few of those putts in the 15 to 20-foot range, then you can make up ground pretty quick. Because it's going to be really hard to hit it close enough. 
 It's really important, it's one area I've worked on. 

 Q. What would be your best-case scenario, how close --
 CHARLES HOWELL III: About where I hit it. It landed on the fringe so right where I hit it. In a money game with friends, I wouldn't have gone for the flag. 

 Q. For what you intended to do, that was an okay result?
 CHARLES HOWELL III: Oh, yeah. 

 Q. What did you have left?
 CHARLES HOWELL III: 150 to the flag. I hit it where I was aiming but a little more down than I thought. 

 Q. So if things don't break your way tomorrow, you'll definitely go to Houston?
 CHARLES HOWELL III: Either way I'll go to Houston. I like that course. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT