JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2019
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. First name basis here three rounds in a row.  What do you think of his game?
CHARLES HOWELL III: Oh, man.  Well, it's fantastic.  He has a ton of speed.  Drives the ball wonderful.  Yeah, and he plays fearless.  It's kind of like the perfect recipe.  I know winning last week after watching him play this week is no surprise.  He's going to win a whole lot more.
And I would not be surprised if he was on that Presidents Cup team that went to Australia.  He would be a guy to look at if I was Tiger.
Q. Funny you say that, because I talked with Matthew, and I said playing with a guy like Charles shows me just how far I have to go to be a regular member out here.
CHARLES HOWELL III: He's just being nice.  It's fun to watch a guy that has the speed he has, the control he has with his driver.  It's just awesome.  I mean, it says a lot about him to come out and win this early in a career where lot people are paying attention to him.
It's fun to watch and fun to play with him the last three days.
Q. You certainly brought the heat on this Saturday, third round 65.
CHARLES HOWELL III: Yeah, you know, being here so many years I've never seen the greens this firm and fast.  Even late yesterday afternoon they were getting a brown purply tint to them.
Man, it's a little bit fiery out there and fun to play.  Never seen it like that.
Q. Do you have to be careful what holes you go at?  So many of the holes are on the edges of greens.
CHARLES HOWELL III: For sure.  And sometimes a little bit of past experience you think, I always went at that flag.  Maybe I can't now.  It takes some thought.
I really, really like the golf course.  It's just wonderful.
Q. Nice round out there.  6-under.  Really never in jeopardy of dropping any shots.  Was was the key today for you?
CHARLES HOWELL III: You know, it's nice playing a round here early.  The wind is not quite as up and the greens were a little softer early. Man, I've never seen them this fast.  As you saw walking out there, the balls are kind of bouncing out on a few holes.  Some of the flag sticks that we used to go at now you've got to play a little more cautious on at.
Man, it's just in wonderful shape.
Q. Talk about that.  I know you probably were not trying to hit the second shot at 18 where it ended up.  What happened there?
CHARLES HOWELL III: No, I was trying to hit it about 25 feet right of the flag and long.  Off that lie I pulled it for some reason.  Didn't catch it heavy.  That was job one, overplay the shot.
Yeah, I wasn't trying to get cute and make a three there.  I would've taken a four and just walked right up the hill.
Q. I noticed early on today a new putter in the bag.  Maybe not a new one; you just went back to a different putter.  What was the the reason behind that?
CHARLES HOWELL III: Oh, it's me and my head and all that.  Yeah, it's very, very similar to the one I used the first couple days, but just -- yeah, I just wanted to look at something different.
Yeah, I just -- I didn't think I putted very well the last couple days.  Not that it was the putter's fault by any means.  It is the Indian.  It's a lot easier to change the Arab than the Indian I've found.
Q. Seems like it made sense because you made some good putts out there.  You played the last few days with Matthew Wolf.  He won last week.  We chatted a little bit before the tournament about that.  What's it like playing with a guy obviously 20 years your youngster but went to the same school?  Have you intermingled or gotten together at any time before this?
CHARLES HOWELL III: No.  First time we played together.  Man, was what a player he is and what a career he's going to have.  Fun to watch these guys with a ton of speed that can drive it miles that are fearless.  Great touch around the greens.  Wonderful putter.
It's no surprise he won last week, and he's going to win a whole bunch more.  He would be a guy that if I were Tiger I'd look at for the Presidents Cup team down in Australia.  He's just perfect for it.  Fearless, hits it miles, and he's fun for someone like me to be around.
Q. How did you take advantage of the course?
CHARLES HOWELL III: It was nice to play early.  Greens in the afternoon started to get a little firmer, which we're not used to seeing here.  Always been kind of soft and slow.
It was nice to be out with Matt again.  I knew he would come out and play aggressive and be aggressive.  I tried to hang on his coattails a little bit.  Yeah, it's always nice playing here early.  Just a little bit more gettable.
Q. Everybody is asking you about playing the last three rounds with Matt Wolff, the most recent PGA Tour winner.  What observations did you make about him in competitive play?
CHARLES HOWELL III: Well, it's no surprise he won last week, No. 1.  He drives it really far, ton of speed, plays fearless, very nice putter.
It was fun for me to be around that, just to watch a guy play aggressive and go at some flags, et cetera.
But it's not too crazy to think he could be on that Presidents Cup team come December.  He seems to be a guy perfect for that.  Not afraid of anything yet and going to have a heck of a career.
Q. Wow, Tiger Woods are you listening at home?  Short game, what are you maybe piggybacking off what you've been seeing?
CHARLES HOWELL III: Yeah, just it's all ultimately about scoring.  It's about going out there and aiming your misses, so to speak.  You know, try to play aggressive to some smart targets.
As much is you want to force things and force birdies, you still got to play smartly.  Fortunately was able to make a few putts and get it going.
But guys are so darn good now and it'll take an super low round tomorrow.  It's nice to have a good one today.
Q. What was working today?
CHARLES HOWELL III: You know, I putted better today from the first couple days for sure.  You know, the golf course is quite a bit different than I'm used to seeing it from years past.  Definitely drier and firmer. Balls are bouncing out more than we've ever seen.  It takes a bit of patience at times when you really don't think you should be patient.  From that, you have to hole a few putts, which I did today.
Overall, it was nice to play another round with Matt Wolff.  Obviously he is kind of a go-for-broke, aggressive player, which I like being around.  It's probably good for me.  Tried to piggyback off him a little bit today and make some birdies.
Q. When did you adjust to the different way the course is playing?
CHARLES HOWELL III: You know, unfortunately we're used to seeing thunderstorms and it getting soft and it hasn't happened.  Greens are fast and got a little brown tint to them.  Some of the corner hole locations where it used to be you could be aggressive with it, ball is going to hit and stop, you can't now.
It's going to take a whole lot more patience in places where before you didn't have to be.
Q. You were out here the first year we played at Deere Run.
CHARLES HOWELL III: Yes.
Q. Can you compare that course-wise and how this course has matured in 20 years now?
CHARLES HOWELL III: Well, looks-wise I think it's a wonderful piece of property.  Of all the TPC courses this is my favorite one.  Then taking some of the trees out, which they have done, I think it looks a lot better.  Clearly it helps with the circulation, et cetera, because we're seeing now firmer greens.
I think it's wonderful.  There is not one thing on the whole golf course I would change.  After 20 years it seems to keep getting better.  Agronomy staff are doing one heck of a job.  All the players like it.  I've never heard one bad word about the entire place.
Somebody should be proud of it.
Q. Mentality leading into tomorrow?
CHARLES HOWELL III: You know you got to make a lot of birdies.  Guys at the top are awfully good and they're low.  We know historically 20-under-ish wins this golf tournament.  It's going to be make a whole lot of birdies.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT