PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2010
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   CHARLES HOWELL III: It played like an American course today. It was a bit bizarre, the fairways were softer than I thought they would be, the greens were soft and that led to some of the birdies early, as the day went on and the wind picked up a bit, it started to firm up a little, but any rain at all, and I think the course will stay fairly soft and you'll see some low scores.

 Q. What about the start you got off to? 
 CHARLES HOWELL III: Yeah, that was nice. It's amazing what happens when a putter behaviors. I made a nice putt for par on 10, my first hole of the day, and I made a couple 20-footers which you just have to do.
 In major championships, you're going to have the four- to six-foot putts for pars, but I made a couple 20-footers for birdie and it was nice to be on that side of it today.

 Q. How did you start this morning? 
 CHARLES HOWELL III: I had never gotten up at 5:30 for a 12 o'clock tee time before; that was great. Had breakfast three times, family dining was great. 
 It's a bit frustrating I think for everybody to kind of sit around. Nothing you can do about it. Especially being a major, guys are up, they are ready to go and ready to get started. To have the start I did, it was actually probably more beneficial because it did calm me down a little bit. There's always some nerves going at a major championship and a couple early birdies definitely takes care of that. 

 Q. The guys that play in the afternoon, do you think it harder for the guys that played in the morning or afternoon? 
 CHARLES HOWELL III: I would probably say it's harder, I mean, in my opinion, on our wave because we don't know if we are going to play tomorrow and we know we are not going to finish tomorrow. The guys who do start late, if they get any type of rhythm, they can keep it going. It's not easy for anybody, especially on a golf course like this, but I would probably say the other side. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT