ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 20, 2010
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Charles Howell, thank you for joining us here in the interview room at the Zurich Classic of New Orleans. You've been here seven times and you've never missed the cut. You have a wonderful enviable record here. A lot of people would love to have that. Four Top 10s and a couple of second places the last two starts here in '09 and '06. First of all, just talk about what you love about New Orleans and coming here. Obviously you're a great supporter of the event, and why you play so well here?   
 CHARLES HOWELL III: Well, first off, I remember when I was first starting as a pro, New Orleans gave me a sponsor's exemption to play here. And I think it's always important to remember that and come back and support the event.   
 Beyond that, this is my favorite stop of the year. I love downtown. I love the French Quarter. Commander's Palace is my favorite restaurant of the year without question. I'll probably be there three or four times this week. And Cafe du Monde, obviously, is another one.   
 But you know the people that run the event, they're visible. You see them at other events. They work hard here. And beyond that, to think that this golf course was under eight, nine feet of water a few years ago to where we have it now is pretty incredible.   
 All in all, I think it's one of the best stops on Tour. Definitely one of the most special places on Tour.   
 THE MODERATOR: This year you've had a handful of Top 10s. You've started the season well. You were in amongst it last week at the Verizon Heritage going into the weekend. Talk about the state of your game and where it's at.  
 CHARLES HOWELL III: My game's improving. Couple years ago I started working with Todd Anderson out of Sea Island. And pretty much we're on track. We're improving. Had to make quite a few changes. My short game is improving.   
 Then full swing is also getting better. We're getting closer to where we want it. But the one thing I have learned is that this game's always a work in progress. You're never there. So it's a difficult game for all of us, and certain times seem easier than others. But I'm quite happy with where it is now.   
  
  Q. What is the difference between a Top 10 position?  
 CHARLES HOWELL III: A lot. Because of the emotions you deal with. Any time around the lead late in the day on Saturday and Sunday, it's a completely different feeling. I think that's why you see certain guys win and win a lot, because whatever it is, they're very comfortable being there. Very comfortable in that position. I think it's why you see Tiger win a lot. You see Phil's won a lot. Vijay's won a lot, yeah. So the difference between first and eighth is massive.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like you have some unfinished business here after last year?   
 CHARLES HOWELL III: For sure, yeah. I just love this event. I'd like to win this event right up there with any of them that I would love to win. I've come close quite a few times.   
 You know, English Turn was one of my favorite golf courses. Now, fortunately this one here is very good as well. But after last year I had a heck of a chance to win that one and let it slip away. But Jerry still played good coming in down the stretch. Not taking anything away from him. But, yeah, I'd love to have a chance come Sunday.  
  
  Q. What did you learn from last year?   
 CHARLES HOWELL III: Patience. Late Sunday afternoon sometimes gets to moving fast and playing those holes with patience, just slowing down. Just staying in my rhythm or whatever I determine my rhythm should be, staying in that. Not getting ahead of myself or speeding up at all.   
 The situation kind of lends itself to that a bit, and I think being a bit more patient.   
  
  Q. Talk about the challenges of this golf course.   
 CHARLES HOWELL III: Well, generally speaking, it's quite windy here. I enjoy playing in the wind. It's a long course on paper, but at times it doesn't play long because it does get so firm and fast.   
 You would also hear that there's not much rough and you would think that that may make it easier. Here might make it more difficult because the ball will run away from you, especially when the winds get to cooking pretty good out of the south. It gets drying fast real quick.   
 But it's great to have that venue. So many courses we play on Tour are wet and soft. It's really nice to see one play firm and fast.   
  
  Q. Are you and your wife expecting a child soon?   
 CHARLES HOWELL III: Coming up. My wife's due May 30th. So last week was her last event traveling, so she's home now. We're going to have a girl. She's due May 30th.   
 As you guys may know better than me, it can come earlier on or later. So it will be some time around there. First child, so it will be a heck of an experience that we're looking forward to. From what I hear it's better than you think and harder than you think. So here we go.   
  
  Q. Will you have time to see the city and go to dinner with people?  
 CHARLES HOWELL III: Yeah, I've got some buddies in town that I always drag out to dinner. I spend a lot of time with my caddie as well, so we'll go to dinner.  
  
  Q. What do you eat at Commanders?   
 CHARLES HOWELL III: At Commanders? Anything's good. The turtle soup for sure. Apart from that, everything's good. You can't get a bad meal there. I may gain a couple of pounds this week.  
 THE MODERATOR: Have you been getting advice from other fathers on Tour about traveling with the kids or how to do things differently?   
 CHARLES HOWELL III: Yeah, every bit of advice I get is well, you've just got to figure it out. Well, we're looking forward to it. We've been married for quite a while now, nine years. So we've had enough time by ourselves, and now it's time to add another one in the mix.   
  
  Q. What did you think of the situation with Brian and the rules violation? Is that something unique in golf?   
 CHARLES HOWELL III: Yes, it is very unique about golf. Watching the NBA playoffs I don't see those guys -- yeah, well, yeah.   
 But I think the fans can appreciate it a bit. The situation in itself is bizarre to me, because in watching it, I didn't see a rules infraction at all. It's bizarre in the fact that you have to go to a high speed camera and slow it down to find one. So for Brian to even feel that he touched that was incredible.   
 In that situation with the adrenaline and the nerves, I'm surprised he even felt he touched that twig. That's what was amazing.   
 As you said, it took him away from the chance to win his first golf tournament. If he makes that putt, you never know.   
 Heck, even if he two putts, he still has to make the putt to win. So the golf tournament was still alive. I think that's the things that make golf what it is that you don't see other sports men calling penalties on themselves especially in that situation.  
  
  Q. The last couple of weeks with Tiger back, can you talk about that?  
 CHARLES HOWELL III: I watched it. I was home but I watched almost all of it. With what's transpired with him and his family to finish fourth, it's an incredible accomplishment on the Golf course to do that. But any time his back is against the wall or someone bets against him, he proves them wrong.   
 So I wouldn't have been surprised in the least if he had won the tournament, frankly.   
  
  Q. You saw him play with Tiger?   
 CHARLES HOWELL III: K.J., I believe, hasn't he won here before? Didn't he win at English Turn?   
 Well, K.J. is extremely steady. Hits a lot of fairways, a lot of greens. Perfect guy, perfect demeanor to be paired with Tiger for four rounds, I think.   
 I don't think his expression ever changes. Here this week I'm sure he'll continue his good play. It's a good golf course for him. Especially when it gets firm and fast, it's great if he hits it. So as well as he's playing, he'll be on top of the leaderboard come Sunday for sure.   
 THE MODERATOR: Appreciate your time. Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT