HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 21, 2009
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. A 66, including birdie at the last. Talk about your round if you would.   
 CHARLES HOWELL III: Well, it was nice to play today early. We didn't have much wind blowing. You don't get this course very often when it's calm. The greens were great. Man, the redo they've done on the greens has just been fantastic.  
  
  Q. Talk about the finishing holes. You had birdie at 16 and birdie at 18. Those are some tough finishing holes. Talk about those.   
 CHARLES HOWELL III: Yeah, we were lucky today that 16 wasn't playing hard into the wind, so I was able to get up around it in two.   
 And then 18 today is more friendly when the wind is just straight in, so I was able to just have a wedge into the green. The greens were rolling so well this morning. If you got going, you could make some putts.   
  
  Q. You spoke to me in Tampa about all the work you've been doing with your new coach, and you're having a great year. It looks like all the work is paying off this year.   
 CHARLES HOWELL III: Well, it's getting there. There's still some times and places where I don't feel comfortable, but I think any time you make changes, that's the way it's going to be for a little bit. But I was able to keep my practice time down with the short and long game in there, which kind of helped me hang in there. But we're getting there.   
  
  Q. What else do you need to work on, or what isn't there yet?   
 CHARLES HOWELL III: You know, it's just a little bit of everything kind of. I think in golf you're always -- you're never really the same two days in a row. You always feel a little bit different every day. You know, the main things with me, I'm still working hard on the short game. But I mean, on a golf course like this, I think you've got to drive the ball well. I think the guy who over the course of four days that drives it well will do good around here, just because the greens are so nice now that you're going to have your chances.   
  
  Q. Nice way to finish up on 18 there with your approach shot.   
 CHARLES HOWELL III: Yeah, that's a friendly pin there, the front pin. You've got a nice little backstop behind it, so it was a friendly pin, and fortunately I was able to take advantage of it. A few more this week would be good there.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT