ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 23, 2009
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You look good, and obviously your golf game is pretty good. 68 in the opening round. Nice to get on out early, not a lot of wind blowing. It had been a lovely morning?  
 CHARLES HOWELL III: It was nice to play early. We got 10 or 11 holes with no wind, which, especially around here, is nice. But even so right now, it's not blowing as hard as it will blow as the week goes on. And this golf course is a lot friendlier when it's less windy.  
  
  Q. It's a lot friendlier now than when they started here four or five years ago. A few changes, a few tweaks to make 15 a reachable par 4. Do you like all the changes?   
 CHARLES HOWELL III: I do like the changes. Any time we play, you're always going to make adjustments as we go on so, yeah, the golf course is great.   
 We came off a golf course last week, this one's a bit longer.   
  
  Q. But it's got its challenges out there?   
 CHARLES HOWELL III: It does.   
  
  Q. Guys this week talked about their responsibilities in the wake of Katrina, saying I need to be here to support this community. Do you feel the same?   
 CHARLES HOWELL III: I always like New Orleans. Contrary to what you can see, I like the food here. We do eat at a lot of the different restaurants.   
 I played it back when it was at English Turn, and I do like the tournament. I think it falls at a good time in the schedule.  
  
  Q. Tell me about today and what was good today?   
 CHARLES HOWELL III: I kept the ball in play today. And any time you get, in my opinion, a Pete Dye style course you've got to drive the ball well to get at some of the flags.   
 And there's a lot of holes out there where, you know, there are some flags you can't go at aggressively, and I was able to keep the ball in the middle of the green away from those.   
 But the par 3 is important on this course, and I played them well today.   
  
  Q. What is the state of your game this week? Feeling good about it or fighting it?   
 CHARLES HOWELL III: No, the game's fine. This golf course here you've got to pick your spots to attack it. As long as I'm able to keep the ball in safe spots, you know, especially off the tee, I'm fine.   
 But, no, I'm happy with my game right now. I've played a bit of golf, but I'm rested and excited about it.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT