TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
October 4, 2008
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome our co-leader of The Turning Stone Resort Championship, Charles Howell. 3-under par, 69. If we can just get some opening comments on the round.
 CHARLES HOWELL III: Well, the weather sure got a lot better at the end. Starting off the day it was a bit windy and rainy again, you know, which by the end of the day I think you saw how soft it made the greens. 
 So definitely scorable out there, and I think that's what we'll see tomorrow. Meant to be a nice weather day. There's no way the greens can dry out by tomorrow, so there will be a lot of birdies. Whoever ends up winning the golf tournament is going to need to make a lot of birdies and take advantage of that.
 JOHN BUSH: Questions.

 Q. How long is the course playing out there, and is it going to a blast-off with you and Ridings paired together tomorrow?
 CHARLES HOWELL III: I think Tag probably hits it a little farther than I do. I'll be hitting first into most of the greens. The golf course is listed at 7,400, and it doesn't quite play that long. 
 It's got plenty of holes where you can play short irons into the par-4s. Got some reachable par-5s. It's right at that length where if we get a calm day tomorrow with the wind you should see a lot of birdies. 

 Q. Is there anything that's been working this week better than most of the rest of the year? 
 CHARLES HOWELL III: Well, I'm driving the ball better and driving the ball in the fairway more. And then the putting, I was starting to putt a little bit better. It's tough to play out here an average of about 31 or 32 putts a round. It's hard to hit it good enough to make up for that. 
 But I have been able to manage the golf ball in the wind the first couple days, you know, where I don't make any big numbers. A lot of balls in the middle of the greens. 
 I didn't play here last year, but I saw how low the scores were. I came up here expecting, you know, a lot of birdie holes and we get the nasty weather we got and they turned them to par holes real quick. 
 I was able to get through those and not hurt myself. 

 Q. How does it feel to be the co-leader after three rounds. Not too bad, right?
 CHARLES HOWELL III: No, it's good. But the most important is after tomorrow. So, you know, there's so many good players up there at the top and right there that, and as I said, with the golf course being as soft as it's going to be tomorrow and with the guys that are up there, there's going to be a lot more birdies made tomorrow than the first three days, I'm sure.

 Q. You obviously came up very heralded. How would you, in your own mind, assess what has happened the seven, eight years you've been out here? 
 CHARLES HOWELL III: I believe I've underachieved for sure, at least in my mind. I wish I would have won more golf tournaments and I wish I would have closed off some more Sundays and won. I think everybody, in their minds, would say they've underachieved. 
 Everybody is out here because they work hard and want to better themselves and push themselves to do better. Yeah, I would be the first to say that I've underachieved, for sure.
 That hasn't been because of the lack of a work ethic or trying or caring or doing anything I can to get better.
 Whatever happens in my career, I know that I've worked as hard as I damn could. 

 Q. When you play this course, even in this weather, with the big fairways, does that change your approach at all? Are you able to be a little more aggressive off the tee? 
 CHARLES HOWELL III: You know, with it being as soft as it's been, it's been a lot of drivers. I can't think of actually one hole I've hit 3-wood off the tee on. I think most guys are playing that way. 
 I played with Rob Allenby today, Mark Hensby, both long hitters. Driver every hole. That isn't to say that there's been a lot of birdies made because of the wind. I think that will change tomorrow. I still think the fairways will be soft and you're going to see a lot of drivers. 
 The defense today, oddly enough, were the greens. When you get a lot of foot traffic on the greens, as we saw today, really got a bit bumpy. Tomorrow should be a different deal.
 JOHN BUSH: Take us through the opening birdie and then the closing one.
 CHARLES HOWELL III: My first hole I holed out on the 10th hole for eagle. My first hole of the day yesterday was a 9-iron. Had the exact same distance. Almost repeated it. 
 Then the birdie at the last, it was a bid odd there. My third shot had made a pitch mark in the fringe and the ball hoped forward of that. I called for a ruling there and I didn't know if I could repair the pitch mark. 
 I knew I couldn't if it was in my line of play, but because my ball had already passed that point I thought it was a lot like replacing a divot, if you will, once you passed it. 
 But I wasn't able to do that, so I actually had to kind of chop down on the putt and it went in. That's what I need to do more of. 
 JOHN BUSH: Charles, thanks for coming in. Play well tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT