MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2008
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Nice playing today. I know you wanted one of those birdies on the last few holes coming in, you didn't get it. Talk about the round.   
 CHARLES HOWELL, III: I can't do a thing about that. I shot 2-under and it wasn't, it didn't play easy today. And no, I -- well I wanted a lot more than just those few birdies, I wanted more than that. But I played well today. So we'll see.   
  
  Q. The 3-putt on 15, what happened on the first one?  
 CHARLES HOWELL, III: Well I never had that putt before. It's a new flag there and it was a lot quicker than I thought it would be. It wasn't that I hadn't played enough holes around here to know the speed of them, but that putt, the putt was just a lot faster than I thought it would be. But that's, hit a good second putt, it just it was a really quick putt there the first one. It caught me a bit off guard there.   
  
  Q. How long was that first putt?  
 CHARLES HOWELL, III: Probably 50 feet, I would say. Probably, 50, yeah.   
  
  Q. You had a couple good looks at 16 and 17, came real close.   
 CHARLES HOWELL, III: These greens aren't easy. It's tough reading them. It was a new pin on 17 today. They're not the easiest, most straightforward things in the world to read and you can hit a lot of good putts that don't go in. My speed was good on those ones and just not quite the right read.  
  
  Q. What about the length on 10 and 14, those birdies?  
 CHARLES HOWELL, III: On 10 it was about 25 feet. And on 14 it was about three feet.  
  
  Q. Wish we had Shot Link.   
 CHARLES HOWELL, III: Yeah.   
  
  Q. Anyway, after yesterday, feel good to have a round in the red numbers and that?  
 CHARLES HOWELL, III: Like I told you yesterday, I had some really good practice rounds coming in and I started hitting the ball a lot better the last few weeks and I was looking forward to it. Hopefully I can go two more days. But yeah, I've been just driving the ball a lot better and consequently from the work I've done on that my short game has suffered a little bit.   
 But I'm driving it a whole lot better and it's getting there. A few more putts would have gone in, it would have been a little easier, but it's getting there.  
  
  Q. Did you feel like at all that maybe you beat yourself up a little yesterday on the back nine today you were a little more forgiving?  
 CHARLES HOWELL, III: Well, no, I mean yesterday -- well, it's hard to be relaxed around here. But I think that I didn't hit that bad of a shot on 11 yesterday and made a 6. I, you know, you obviously, it's hindsight's always 20/20, but, still, making double on 11 yesterday I probably should have made my miss right of that green there.   
 But that's what can happen around here. If you don't take advantage of the par-5s, and make 4s on those, that it can get away from you a bit out here.   
  
  Q. Obviously you want to be here this weekend, but given the opportunity what do you want to do this weekend? Be 12 back?  
 CHARLES HOWELL, III: Well, I've never busted 70 out here. It would be nice to do that in the tournament.   
  
  Q. Even in 2004?  
 CHARLES HOWELL, III: No, I never busted 70 here. So I would love to do that. And oh, but, no, I would just like to have two more cracks at it. And it's a funny animal. It's so difficult. There's always some guys that are going to shoot low and skew that a bit, but it's just so difficult out there. And they even put some, they put some accessible hole locations out there today, which was nice. And it is still difficult.   
  
  Q. You probably see where I'm going with this, can you maybe want something too badly to where sometimes --  
 CHARLES HOWELL, III: Steve, I talked about that every year. Next question.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT