MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2008
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Did the double on is 11 just start a snowball affect there?
 CHARLES HOWELL, III: It's a bit disappointing. I had some really good practice rounds, I've been playing a lot better coming in here. And yeah, I drove the ball well today, which is one thing I've been working on hard. Just short game is a struggle a bit. And out here that's not a good thing to have happen. 

 Q. On the front you weren't hitting a lot of fairways, but you hit a lot on the back and still the scores weren't matching up?
 CHARLES HOWELL, III: Yeah, I just spent a lot of time the past few months on driving the ball. That's one thing I struggled on. And I'm starting to drive it a lot better. And the short game has struggled, probably as a result of spending a lot of time on the long game. 
 And around here it's tough. When you don't make the score from driving the ball in good positions, it's quite difficult. 

 Q. How much of it, like you say, you played really well coming in. How much of it is so much of a desire with you that when a bogey happens it might get to you a little more?
 CHARLES HOWELL, III: I don't know, actually. I haven't -- I don't know. I wish I had an answer for you. 

 Q. Seems like there's so much "want to" at this place maybe more than any place else?
 CHARLES HOWELL, III: Well, sure. Yeah, the "want to" is there I think for a lot of guys, not just me, I'm not the only one for that. And the place is just tough though. 
 It's tough to make birdies out here, it's tough to come back from some bogeys and almost a U.S. Open mentality where pars are good scores. 

 Q. But nobody's gone crazy today, it's a hard course today, so do you know that, tomorrow, okay, if I do shoot a decent number I'll be right back?
 CHARLES HOWELL, III: I'm driving the ball well enough to shoot a good score. And that's definitely something I worked on. And, yeah, still, it's a mean golf course. And you're always seeming to be flirting on the edge with it. And there's not a long way between shooting under par and over par out here. It's just a few things going your way.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT