FBR OPEN
February 1, 2008
Charles Howell III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Charles, solid playing.  68 today, 67 in round one.  How was the golf course playing this morning?  Of course you had to finish up this morning.   
 CHARLES HOWELL III:  Well, it was good this morning.  Well, we actually got lucky, we had a frost delay, because it was cold.  We had the better end of the draw, I think.  It was calm this morning.  The wind really didn't blow much at all.  You're going to see some low scores today, and I think this afternoon if the wind stays calm like this there will be quite a few more low ones.   
  
  Q.  You're in pretty good position now, 7-under par.  Do you like playing desert golf like this?   
 CHARLES HOWELL III:  I do.  I like this course here.  It fits my eye well.  You know, there's a lot of birdie holes out here, but there's a lot of risk-reward, too.  If you are playing well and you do get it going, you can shoot really low.  But the finish makes this golf course.  The last four holes here is what this place is all about.   
  
  Q.  We talked last year, you winning last year at the Nissan Open, the second win on the PGA TOUR for you, and gradually working on your game.  You've gone through that now, have got another year behind your belt.  Are you getting a lot more comfortable with it?   
 CHARLES HOWELL III:  Getting closer, not 100 percent yet but getting there.  You know, still working hard on it, but I am working on the right things and I am getting there slowly but surely.  It's nice to play well and to see that you are working on some of the right stuff.  I've got the odd loose shot here and there, but it's getting a lot better.   
  
  Q.  What went right out there the last two days?   
 CHARLES HOWELL III:  You obviously have to take advantage of the opportunities and putt well.  You're going to hit the ball fairly close here but you've got to putt good and take advantage of it, and fortunately I did that today.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT