TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 12, 2015
Pat Mahomes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Texas Tech - 69
  UTEP - 20

THE MODERATOR: Questions for Patrick Mahomes. 

Q. Looking at some of the stats, you had possession of the ball just under 20 minutes but were able to score 69 points. What does that say about efficiency?
PATRICK MAHOMES: Just playing fast. It's something Coach Kingsbury preaches, just playing fast. When you have a lot of play‑makers on the field, they make plays. Just putting the ball in their hands so they can make plays, we can win the game.

Q. Do you feel better about how you finished the game?
PATRICK MAHOMES: Yes. We can always get better. But we did finish a lot better than we did last week. UTEP is a great team. We had a big win. We're always thankful for that. I felt a little bit better, but we can always get better. 

Q. What was the difference this week? 
PATRICK MAHOMES: It was just execution. I mean, that's something Coach Kingsbury preached on. We could have made a lot of plays the week before. He said, Just make the plays, execute. 
It's something we did all week and it carried over in the game. 

Q. How easy is it to throw to Jakeem? How is that a comfort for you to have a guy like that?
PATRICK MAHOMES: It's great. He's a great play‑maker. We have so many of them. Jakeem, make plays for you, it's an awesome feeling. 

Q. How ready are you for what's coming up these next few games with the level of competition cranking up?
PATRICK MAHOMES: I mean, it's going to be a great competition. They're three great teams. The whole Big 12 conference is a great conference. To start off with great teams, it will be a good trend setter to see where we're at and make ourselves known as a team that can be in the Big 12 and make something happen.

Q. How much do you personally look forward to those games to prove yourself?
PATRICK MAHOMES: It's something that I just want to go in there and get three wins. I mean, win the rest of the games we can. I'm just trying to go out there, win the games and hopefully represent Texas Tech the best way I can. 

Q. How long do you give yourself a chance to enjoy this? 12 hours, 24 hours, five minutes?
PATRICK MAHOMES: I don't know. I'm going to probably enjoy it tonight. Tomorrow it's straight Arkansas. Probably one night and then after that you get on to the next opponent and the next thing at hand. 

Q. Tell us about the execution on the spring pass. 
PATRICK MAHOMES: The end receivers all blocked great. I think they blitzed on the play, which kind of set it up even more. Just put it in Justin's hands. You know how fast he is. He made the play happen. But the blocking is what really made the play. 

Q. (Question regarding pressure slowing the rush.) 
PATRICK MAHOMES: I'm not sure. O‑line is so good, I don't get hit that much anyway. Maybe I had a little bit of pressure, slowed down a little bit. I think our O‑line just really takes care of that. 

Q. (No microphone.)
PATRICK MAHOMES: It just kind of shows what we have in the receiver position, players that make plays. A simple play is a little slant, he can make a touchdown out of it. It just shows how deep we are at receiver. 

Q. What can you say about him? What do you attribute that to?
PATRICK MAHOMES: He's just a great team player. No matter what the situation is, he's going to bring it and give it his all. He's the hardest working kid I've seen. 
He's coming every day and giving it his all. It's just the type of guy he is. 

Q. (Question regarding the fumble.) 
PATRICK MAHOMES: Coach Kingsbury had said in the locker room, Defense come out and get a stop, offense go put points on the board. That's something Coach Kingsbury preaches, is just finishing the game. 
When he got a stop, it was up to us to go in and score the ball, set the tone for the second half.

Q. So far you haven't been sacked this season. Pretty much the way you like it, pass protection?
PATRICK MAHOMES: Oh, yes. Just shows how good our O‑line is. They take pride in not giving up sacks. When I do get close to getting sacks, I just try to get the ball out of my hands, get it to the people downfield. That just shows how great our O‑line is. 

Q. (Question regarding Jakeem.) 
PATRICK MAHOMES: I think it was just a streak. May have been a busted coverage. I'd have to watch film to see. He came across the middle wide open, put it in his hands, he made a great play out of it. 
Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT