BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 9, 2000
Jim Boeheim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







COACH BOEHEIM: I thought Georgetown played -- just completely outplayed us right from
the start. We had an opportunity to even start the second half, we probably got five or
six inside layups. I think we started the second half one for fifteen. We can't do that.
You can't dig that kind of hole. I thought we fought back about as well as we can. They
made their free throws. You just can't put yourself in that kind of a hole. You know,
right from the opening, we just didn't get after the thing like we're capable of. We
started man-man. They scored four straight possessions. We just didn't have any intensity
in the defensive end. There's no excuse for that at this stage of the year. That's what
happened today. Questions?

Q. As long as you've been doing this, you know the drill, the NCAA, the tournament.
What does this loss do to seeing your chances? Can you think about that at this point?

COACH BOEHEIM: It's not going to help them. That's for sure.

Q. Do you expect to -- how far down you can drop, three or four?

COACH BOEHEIM: No idea. Just obviously going to drop. That's all. We lost to St. John's
by one point down here and dropped five or six places in the polls. Duke lost by one point
at home and dropped two places. It's obvious we haven't gotten much respect this year in
the league. I'm sure we're going to drop. We put ourselves in this position. We're going
to have to play our way out of it. Find our way out. If we play like we did today, it
won't matter.

Q. Are you happy with the way -- (inaudible).

COACH BOEHEIM: He plays once in a while. You know, he starts the game like that, the
game's not even a game.

Q. Are you happy the way DeShaun Williams played today?

COACH BOEHEIM: I mean he can score. There's no question he can score. First play he was
in, he got picked. Kevin Braswell made a three. Tried for four games to teach him that
he's got to not let that happen. It hasn't worked. He's a good offensive player so we're
going to have to put up with his defensive shortcomings. He can't guard anybody.

Q. Coach, seemed like Lee Scruggs, inside your zone at the free-throw line made a big
difference. Can you talk about his --

COACH BOEHEIM: He had a great game. He hurt us in Syracuse. He had 22 in Syracuse and
we beat them by 17. Problem with this game was Syracuse. It has nothing to do with
Georgetown. If we're going to play like this, we wouldn't be, you know, we wouldn't be
anywhere. If we're going to play basketball like this, there's, you know, this is the
worst we've played the whole year. We've been a pretty consistent team, pretty good
leadership. I didn't see any leadership. I didn't see any effort until about ten minutes
to go in the game.

Q. Is that the essence of what you told the team afterwards?

COACH BOEHEIM: That's what I told them.

Q. How do you get them ready for the next step?

COACH BOEHEIM: There you have to understand that you have to be ready to play, or the
same thing's going to happen. I understand what they have to do. They have to understand.

Q. Coach, can you talk about where the team rallies right now?

COACH BOEHEIM: I'm sure they're back there having a party.

Q. Assuming that the question is where is the psychology of the team, what do you need
to do over the next week before the tournament starts to help get them back there?

COACH BOEHEIM: First of all, a loss here is, you know, is not going to determine what
happens next week. Villanova lost here by 20 points and won the National Championship. You
know, what you do here, it's irrelevant. It's the same as what happened last week, same as
when we won 24 games. That didn't help us today. What we did today, win or lose, isn't
going to help us next week. We have to understand. Hopefully, they will learn that they
can't come out and play like this, because they're going to lose to anybody they play in
the first round if this is the effort we're going to have. If they learn from this, then,
you know, we'll be thankful next week. Rather learn that lesson this week than try to
learn it next week. But we've been coming here for as many years as the tournament's been
here and we have never -- never -- played a game like this in New York. Why we did today,
I don't have the answer.

Q. On that subject, are you surprised, with your seniors and the way the team's played,
are you surprised to get this kind of effort today?

COACH BOEHEIM: Yeah, I'd say I was surprised. Yeah. We've been consistent for the
entire season. When we've had a bad game, it hasn't been because of the effort or the
understanding of the game. Today we didn't have any understanding really of what we were
doing on offense or really on defense. The effort was only there in the last ten minutes,
twelve minutes of the game. You know, we knew that -- we knew missing layups, we started
off the second half, that's just a matter of focus and energy and going up and putting the
ball there. I mean, you know, if you can't make those shots, you obviously -- there's
nothing you can do that's going to try to help change. You know, you do whatever you can.
But it's hard to figure out why it would happen at this stage, when it hasn't happened at
any stage during the season. Every game we've lost, we've had good purpose, good effort.
We made passes today that -- I can think of three passes that we made that they, you know,
there was no effort, no pressure, nothing. They scored six points off the three passes.
There is no explanation for that. You know, but the bottom line is we're going to learn
from this or -- and it will help us. If you can't learn from a game like this about what
you have to do, you know, Damone's a perfect example. He played eight minutes the first
half, 0 for 2, no rebounds, no assist, no effort, no nothing. Then he gets 15 points in a
ten-minute stretch in the second half. We can't win if we're going to come out and play
like that, put ourselves in that kind of a hole. Again, I think Georgetown is capable of
playing well against us. Why they haven't played better this year, I don't know. But
they're capable of playing. They played pretty well today. We can't allow them to do some
of the things that we allowed them to do.

Q. Can you talk about the point guard matchup today?

COACH BOEHEIM: Well, I don't think Braswell had a terrific game. Jay didn't have one of
his better games. He made some bad turnovers and it's, you know, he did not have a good
game.

Q. Today seems like a little step forward (inaudible) --

COACH BOEHEIM: I'd say that's a pretty fair assessment.

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT