EA SPORTS MAUI INVITATIONAL
November 24, 2013
Jim Boeheim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JIMMY DYKES:   I talked about a group of highly talented, low‑maintenance guys.   To put that in perspective, on the flight out from Dallas to Maui it's about an eight‑hour flight.   I was in first class, thankful for ESPN for providing that for me.   My wife and 8‑year‑old daughter were in coach class.   I went back to check on them a couple of times and my 8‑year‑old daughter finally said, dad, I want to sit up in first class with you.   It's too crowded back here, I don't like it.   I leaned in and said, Listen, Jim Boeheim the head coach from Syracuse is right behind you.   I don't want to hear another word, do you understand?   And that's who Coach Boeheim is.   He's hanging with his guys.   
But he is Syracuse basketball.   He has poured his life into that university in more ways than just the basketball program.   He is the second winningest head coach in Division I history right now with 924 wins.   Went to the Final Four last year.   He's won the National Championship in 2003, he's a Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Famer.   
He is unbeaten in Maui.   Won both trips both times he's been here.   They've won it.   They've gone home with the championship trophy in 1990 and 1998.   Made a major impact in basketball across the globe with USA Basketball.   He's just a terrific person.   Does a ton of work for Coaches Versus Cancer.   A lot of these guys are involved in that, but he's as respected as there is in the game, Jim Boeheim.   
COACH BOEHEIM:   Wow, thanks, Jimmy, I appreciate that.   A long time ago I had my wife and children in coach like you did, and I paid‑‑ it was about three years before I got the payback completed from that.   So you do have to learn these things over time.   I'm a little disappointed to be here today.   It's six inches of snow and 20 ° in Syracuse today, and I hate to miss that.   
But you know we're happy to be in this tournament.   I had forgotten that we had won this tournament.   Anything before 2005 I can't remember anymore.   I do remember Richard being born in Syracuse, and I hope that he remembers that, that we were nice to him coming in.   Had a little baby shower and everything.   
But we're excited to be here.   This is as good a tournament as I've been here in 30‑some years in terms of the field.   We've played in a lot of tournaments, and this is a tremendous field.   I think there's going to be five or six teams coming out of this tournament in the NCAA Tournament at the end of the year.   And it's just a privilege to be here.   
It's as well run as any tournament that we've ever played in, and we're excited about the opportunity.   There's going to be some great basketball here.   It's important at this time of the year you learn a little bit about your team and this is where you do it.   So we're really happy to be here.   It's a classy tournament.   
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT