BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 11, 2011
Jim Boeheim
Scoop Jardine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







UConn: 76
  Syracuse: 71

 COACH BOEHEIM: I thought the whole game was -- both teams played physical, tough, tough college basketball just like you expect. I thought we had some opportunities early and we didn't make shots and, you know, you've got to make some shots. Then we started to in the second half but we gave up too much. 
 We let Kemba get too much penetration. We tried to double him every chance we could but he's very difficult -- he's as good a player as there is in college basketball right now. He just made tremendous plays. I thought we hung in there. We made a tremendous come-back at the end of the game, made some defensive plays, hit a couple of shots and overtime we had some really good opportunities and we just didn't convert 'em and you have to do that and we'll learn from it, get ready for next week. 

 Q. Coach, you talk about the come-back, all the things you guys did in the last minute and what that will do for you next week? 
 COACH BOEHEIM: If we get in that same position again I don't think it will help us too much because I don't think we will be able to do that again, I think that was a once in a season thing. 

 Q. Coach, Brandon Triche scored 22 points for you last night, in the second half he wasn't in the game that much, is there a reason? 
 COACH BOEHEIM: Yeah, there was a reason. Yep. You asked a question, I answered it. He was 1 for 70 for 3 in the first half and Dion came in and played great. Maybe I don't know what I'm doing, maybe that's the answer. 

 Q. Coach, 45% from the line, shortage of free-throws down the stretch?
 COACH BOEHEIM: We only got 11 foul shots, we missed a couple, but when you only get to the line 11 times something happened there. 

 Q. Scoop, at the time how good did it feel to hit those threes? 
 SCOOP JARDINE: I was worried about getting into overtime. I gave my team the chance to win the game and we didn't come through in overtime, that's all I'm worrying about right now. 

 Q. Dion's play tonight encouraging for the tournament? 
 COACH BOEHEIM: Dion has played well, through the tournament and I thought he was really good today. 

 Q. Scoop, tough loss tonight but one of the leaders of this team in the days to come what will you say to the guys to move forward toward the NCAAs? 
 SCOOP JARDINE: We can learn a lot from this game. I think the big tournament starts next week and that's our whole goal is to try to win six games and we going to do everything in our power to bounce back. We have been down this road before and we know what it takes and we have a coach who can get us there and we are going to try to win every game in the NCAA Tournament.

 Q. Jim, there was a play that looked like it might have been an offense active --
 COACH BOEHEIM: You think.

 Q. What do you think? 
 COACH BOEHEIM: Nothing. No comment. 
 THE MODERATOR: Syracuse, thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT