NL DIVISION SERIES: BRAVES v GIANTS
October 7, 2010
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   KATY FEENEY: Questions for Bobby Cox. 

 Q. Bobby, I know it's tough to put the a lineup against Tim Lincecum. With Diaz, are you playing a hunch? 
 BOBBY COX: Matty started the last game in Atlanta, and he hit balls hard, and two of 'em were off right-handers. And if he's going to hit righties or lefties, doesn't make any difference if he's hot, and we had to pick one and I picked him. 

 Q. The final decision on Saito, what was that about? 
 BOBBY COX: His arm feels pretty good, he was rusty in the bullpen yesterday. The ball wasn't going where he wanted it to on every pitch. And he is a strikeout pitcher and he's got great control, and he's got to have that control. And he's going to go down and pitch Saturday in the instructional league. 

 Q. Bobby, what do you anticipate getting from Hanson tomorrow? 
 BOBBY COX: A great game! I think he's only given up one run in his last three. 

 Q. What would you say about his quick development from a youngster to a full-blown professional pitcher? 
 BOBBY COX: Well, you know, he was hyped just like Jason Heyward was in our organization. When he was out in the fall league, all the scouts -- not our scouts, every scout in baseball that covered him thought, you know, he would be a No. 1 starter. And he's real close to being that right now, for me. 
 His record definitely is not indicative of the way he's pitched this year. We've gotten him no runs all year long, nothing. 

 Q. People may look at your roster and say seven rookies and say that's a lot. Do you look at Jason Heyward or Jonny Venters as rookies anymore? 
 BOBBY COX: I'll take 25 rookies, if they can all play like those guys. That's not a big deal, I don't think. We've got plenty of guys that are veterans and have been through playoffs and things like that that can help 'em. 

 Q. Getting back to what we were talking about, Hanson. The guys out in the fall league told me Hanson had a greater impact on the fall league than Strasburg did the following year. 
 BOBBY COX: I was out there and he was the talk. Strasburg has been, for me, the most hyped guy to come down the pike for a long time, for all an entire year, almost. The No. 1 selection in the draft and all that, and rightfully so. What I saw was Ace No. 1. 

 Q. Will Jair Jurrjens stay on a regular schedule? 
 BOBBY COX: J.J. is going back down and, hopefully, he will pitch on Monday. If not Monday, he will pitch on Tuesday. 

 Q. Bobby, there is some talk about your players winning this postseason for you. Do you try to discourage that talk or do anything you can to your advantage? 
 BOBBY COX: I try to discourage it. We win as a team, not for me. It's nice of them to say that, and it's probably the proper thing for them to say. But, you know, we're going to win this thing for them. 

 Q. With these pitching staffs and the fact that runs are expected to be at a premium and hard to come by, is it more likely we could see some bunting early in the game, hit-and-run, hitting --
 BOBBY COX: I think any way you can get a run, anything you can manufacture against Tim Lincecum, and them against Lowe, and we'll see. Not going to change the game completely. But we've done pretty good against the Giants, not great, but pretty darn good. 

 Q. Saito, do you think he should be available in the next series if you have them? 
 BOBBY COX: If things keep going the way they are, I think Saito could be available the next round. We came real close to puttin' him on, but he's just not quite -- we didn't know -- to put him in a one-run game right now, or a one-run lead, whatever, we're just not sure. We would like to see him go down and pitch, rather than just bullpens, to see where his control is. 

 Q. Are you going with a three-man rotation or does that mean your guy tonight will come back Sunday? 
 BOBBY COX: We've -- plan A, plan B, we're leavin' it open.

 Q. Depending on where you are --
 BOBBY COX: Derek wants to pitch the fourth game and we'll see. If not, Brandon Beachy will pitch the fourth game. 
 KATY FEENEY: Thanks, Bobby. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT