NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 15, 1999
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Where did you find Rocker?
 
 BOBBY COX: He's out of the Atlanta area, outside of Macon. And John struggled a bit in
our Minor League system. It's the only one he's been in. I'm just saying he did struggle
some early on in his career. He was always a starter, and they turned him into a relief
pitcher a couple of years ago. He went down to the Arizona Fall League and did pretty
good. He was fortunate enough to get a job in Puerto Rico, where he really had some good
situations to come in and close, and I think he was an All-Star player. I think he made
Fireman of the Year in a very short period of time, a guy that went through the expansion
draft. We're fortunate to have him, and he's a super story, really. It's a great story. 
 
Q. Bobby, I had seen Rocker last year, and obviously, you could tell he had a lot of
talent last year, but it seems he's taken a quantum step forward this year and raised his
level. What do you attribute most toward that end?
 
 BOBBY COX: I think just getting his feet wet last year helped him an awful lot. He was
extremely successful last season, but he's not afraid to throw a breaking ball on any
count, number one. He can throw almost a hundred miles an hour and drop a curveball on
you. And just the experience of being up here for almost a year, half a year, and then he
looked great all spring. He's looked good all season. It's a matter of maturing, and
confidence is huge. To be able to throw the breaking ball like he does, it's huge. As hard
as he throws, it's hard to lay off the breaking ball. 
 
Q. Can you contrast Tommy's performance tonight with the '95 Game 6?
 
 BOBBY COX: It's pretty similar. They had more hits off of him tonight, but I'm not so
sure he didn't throw harder tonight. And I think he had almost 10 strikeouts a night or
so, whatever he had. It was quite a few, and I thought it was just excellent. He just
really moved the ball around, changed speeds just at the perfect times and went inside
good and just did a super job. It's very similar. Two tough-hitting teams. 
 
Q. Did you think that first run was going to hold up all game?
 
 BOBBY COX: You'd like to have more runs, even with Tommy pitching, you'd like to get
more than one once in a while. But it was unusual how we scored. We got thrown out by
being aggressive tonight at second base a couple of times; yet we scored by being
aggressive. Al Leiter, he certainly matched Tommy pitch for pitch the entire night, too.
He pitched one heck of a ballgame. 
 
Q. Just more on Glavine. Do you ever get tired of seeing your guys come up big in the
postseason like that, especially since he didn't have, for him, a super year?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, it helps me maintain a job seeing them come up big. Tommy won 14 this
year and that's not bad. You don't have all the luck in the world all the time. Yeah, it's
great to see it after -- it's a grueling season, your Spring Training and the entire
season and you're expected to win. These guys are expected to win. They're in a category
where they're expected to throw shutouts every night, and it's not humanly possible. But
it's amazing to see what they do in the playoffs. I think I saw on the board tonight that
was Tommy's 13th National League Championship Series start. That's a lot of years. 
 
Q. Talk about your team's perseverance despite all the abuse Chipper and Rocker were
taking?
 
 BOBBY COX: I don't think that has any factor at all. I'd rather have -- I said earlier
today, the fans, even if they're against us, the number of 50,000 in the stands is great.
It makes you feel more like playing, I think. And I'd be worried if there were four or
five hundred people in the stands yelling those things. That would be a little rough. I
don't think it has any factor on us at all. You're so pumped up and everybody is yelling
so loud. There were some obscenities when he came out on the field and stuff like that,
but you have to live with that. 
 
Q. You lost three runners on the base pads tonight, are you going to continue to be so
aggressive?
 
 BOBBY COX: Yeah, we're going to run as hard as we can. Chipper challenged Ricky and he
got thrown out. I think the ball -- I didn't see it down the line that Eddie Perez hit,
but I think it hit the wall and bounced to him. It should have been a double, but he's got
a bad leg. I'm glad he went. I'm glad Gerald was trying to steal third when he did. We
didn't get any good jumps off of Al at first base. We kept getting bad jumps, not being
able to run for some reason. 
 
Q. Did do you ever figure against this of all team's you'd win end up winning a big
game like this on errors?
 
 BOBBY COX: No, you don't. You have to remember Ordonez made a lot of good plays
tonight. It's not just one throw or one play. They have got a great defensive team there
in the infield; it's just dynamite. It's a pleasure to watch them play. But we're going to
make errors, too. We've lost games before on errors. 
 
Q. When you make decisions to let a pitcher bat for himself in the 8th, like you did
today, is that a spur of the moment decision or is that something you're thinking about
well before it happens?
 
 BOBBY COX: No. Tommy was done when he came off after the 7th. I told him to stick
around; don't go anywhere, in case we get a runner on. He's as good a bunter as there is
in Major League Baseball. I just wanted to make sure we got it down. He stuck around for a
reason; that was to bunt. 
 
Q. Bobby, why was he done? He was pitching so well, and what did he say when he came
out of the game?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, sometimes you can just tell. We both looked at each other in the 7th
inning with two outs, and said: "This is probably going to be it." You can only
bare down for so long without blowing apart. Tommy can answer that better than I. These
guys are professionals. They tell you the truth all the time. They know best. We have a
good bullpen. I sure hate to take a Tommy Glavine out, but if he's tired, he's tired and
that's it. And we do it that way. And it's worked out really well. 
 
Q. I wanted to know if you could talk a little bit about the success that the Braves
have enjoyed against the Mets. The margin of victory in many of the games has been small
sometimes, but this is a club that's won 100 games, they've handled a large majority of
their opponents; Arizona handled them pretty much the entire year, but they beat Arizona.
It's almost uncanny the success you have against them. Is there any rhyme or reason that
you can put your finger on in terms of your overall success against them?
 
 BOBBY COX: We've played them tough and they've played us tough. You're right, the games
have been very tight and there's been very few blowouts. They got us a couple of times on
blowouts. Tommy has pitched four times against the Mets and gone 7 innings, 8 innings, 1
run, 2 runs. And tonight, there's some balls hit at us, too, that could turn the games
around. We've been fortunate enough. I'm not just saying that, but there's a little luck
involved in this stuff, too. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT