NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 14, 1999
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Any line-up changes, Bobby? Are you going to go with the same ones last night?
 
 BOBBY COX: Yeah, the exact same line-up as last night, except the pitcher. 
 
Q. Any travel adventures today?
 
 BOBBY COX: No. We were good. We sent our equipment up earlier so it would be here when
we got out of the plane and we could work out. They were delayed for two or three hours.
They made it. It was windy and gusty; a lot of flights were canceled. It wasn't that bumpy
on the way in. It was a good flight. 
 
Q. Bobby, obviously your starters are fine, and pitchers in the bullpen have pitched
well. Are you surprised that the heart of their order is 1 for 21?
 
 BOBBY COX: I don't know about that. I can just tell you that we respect the middle of
that order, and the entire batting order, really, a good deal. And even Ordonez is
swinging the bat well to me. And Alfonzo, I don't know where you throw the ball to get him
out, to be honest with you. But the other guys we've been lucky against. We're trying to
be careful. 
 
Q. Bobby, I know you haven't participated in it, but do you have any thoughts on the
sort of war of words that has developed a little bit, including coming out of some guys in
your locker room?
 
 BOBBY COX: The good thing for me, honestly, is I've not picked up a paper, and I don't
listen to the radio. So the only time I know that anything is said -- and I don't want to
listen to it in here -- is when somebody tells me. So I don't know anything about it. And
believe me, I don't know who said what. I know our team respects their team. I've heard
that part of it. And what else has been said, I don't know, and I don't care. It's still a
game of baseball, and I think those things have a tendency to get really, really out of
proportion. 
 
Q. Bobby, when you hired Don Baylor, were you concerned after six years of being a
chief how it would be, his adjustment to taking orders from you, and how has he been
during this year in that adjustment?
 
 BOBBY COX: No, there's no adjustment. You hire on for a job; you do your job. I've had
Jimy Williams with me, Pat Corrales with me, both Big League skippers, and it's the same
thing. You hire on and you do your job. And all three of those guys have done jobs for me
and really helped me through my career. And Don was no different. He did a great job. I'm
sure he's not going to be back. I'm sure he's going to get a Major League job. I wish he
was coming back. But obviously, he's going to get a Big League job. 
 
Q. Bobby, can you talk a little bit about what you expect tomorrow night
atmosphere-wise here and fans and so forth?
 
 BOBBY COX: I don't think it's ever changed or ever will change. It's always going to be
the hostile Met fans, so to speak. And they're great fans. I love walking through this
city and talking to people. I get recognized because we're on TV all the time. And I enjoy
talking to the fans. I think they're great fans. Just because they root extra hard for
their home team, there's nothing wrong with that. Every ballpark has four or five people
in it, or there's going to be a breakout of two incidents somewhere, and it's not
indicative of the other fans. It's no different in that respect. 
 
Q. Bobby, Rickey killed the Diamondbacks getting on base every time. He hasn't been on
base against you yet. How important is it to keep him off the bases? 
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, I think it's important to keep any lead-off hitter off base that can
run. They can manufacture a run in a heartbeat, and they don't even have to have a base
hit in doing it, a guy with that kind of speed. We're happy with the way we've handled
Rickey, but obviously, the guy is a .300 hitter, a Hall of Famer, and still in great
shape. I know he got sick the other night, and it's a huge plus if you can get the
lead-off hitter out. 
 
Q. Tom Glavine spoke at length yesterday, and glowingly, about how you handled pitchers
and how you handled pitchers during your time in Atlanta. Obviously, you've had good
pitchers to handle. In your baseball life, is there a particular person or persons that
really you learned from in terms of the handling of pitchers?
 
 BOBBY COX: Yeah, I think there's been managers through the years that treats their
pitchers like some type of meat to be thrown around and used. And then you run into a guy
like a Ralph Houk who understood pitching very well. Not that I do; I'm just telling you I
learned a little bit from him, that's for sure. And just the experiences of being in the
Minor Leagues for a long time, managing and playing, and going to South America for eight
years managing and playing. And then being in the Big League level, I've learned to
respect ballplayers in general, not just pitchers, but players. 
 
Q. Can you talk a little bit about Brian Jordan's performance thus far?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, his last big swing went off the uprights and was good; good for three.
He was a big factor in the big Houston game we had, with the five RBI's, and he was a huge
factor with our ballclub early on in the season until he hurt his hand. And that's when
Chipper Jones started his MVP march. And Brian Jordan has been a huge part of the ballclub
and carried our ballclub a great deal the first half. 
 
Q. Bobby, what does it say about your starting pitchers that not only are they so
willing to pitch in relief in this postseason, but they've done so well in relief?
 
 BOBBY COX: I think that's well-documented the kind of people that they are and
competitors they are. And I think they have pitched a lot of innings. They've logged a
tremendous amount of innings in their careers. And in postseason innings, they've logged a
ton. The good thing this year, there was a lot of fuel left in their tanks. We didn't
really push them. We have before, through the years. A little bit more than this season, I
think. And they all pitched on quite a bit of rest during the season. We wanted to make
sure that we were strong at the end, and it turned out that way, luckily. They're willing
to do that type of stuff. It's dangerous at times, I suppose. But you can roll it out
there, and sometimes it works and sometimes it don't. If it hadn't have worked, I wouldn't
have looked very good in a lot of peoples' eyes. But it did work. 
 
Q. How did John Smoltz react when you mentioned relieving to him?
 
 BOBBY COX: It started quite a while ago. After we clinched the division, John came in
and said he would do anything I wanted him to do. He didn't know if he was going to be the
No. 3 man or 4 man. He said he would start and pitch two games; he would relieve in every
ballgame if I wanted. And I thought starting in Game 4, we would have one of the dominant
pitchers starting the game; and maybe pitch in relief, once in the divisional playoffs and
maybe once in LCS. He didn't pitch in the divisional, in relief, but by going No. 4, we
had that luxury. 
 
Q. There's some starters who avoid the bullpen like it's the plague or something?
 
 BOBBY COX: John had never been out there, believe me. I think our bullpen guys made him
welcome out there. It's different, boy, I'm telling you. I just knew what John could do.
And what a spot to come in, with that type of pressure. He's very able to do those things. 
 
Q. John said last night that you had had discussions with him about possibly converting
to a closer at some point during his career. Can you talk about those discussions and how
serious they may have been?
 
 BOBBY COX: I think more his thinking at times, because of the news media, and he would
talk about that occasionally, what a great closer he would be. He would make a great
closer. But in my mind, he's one of the greatest starters that ever teed it up out there,
too. I'd rather have John, if he's healthy, certainly, be a starter, and go out there 33,
34 times, whatever it is and win the majority, or have a chance to win most of them. 
 
Q. Both Dave Righetti and Dennis Eckersley switched to closer because they had arm
trouble, and in those days, they wanted you to go seven or eight innings, not just five or
six, that was part of that. He has had some arm trouble? 
 
 BOBBY COX: Yes, I'm sure that was part of the thinking. But this hasn't been recent
that we've talked about that. But a lot of great starters became great closers. So he
could certainly do it. 
 
Q. Any truth to the rumor that John Rocker will be sitting in the dugout rather than in
the bullpen?
 
 BOBBY COX: During the introductions? 
 
Q. During Game 3?
 
 BOBBY COX: You mean not use him? 
 
Q. I mean physically sitting, as far as getting away from the fans?
 
 BOBBY COX: Oh, I don't think so. I think he relishes the boos. I'm sure he's one of the
guys that said something, but please don't tell me what it was. They like to throw stuff
at us, but at every ballpark they do that. He has a routine. He doesn't go out the first
inning; he has to go through a routine. 
 
Q. Did you think Jordan was as good as he has been with you when he was elsewhere? He's
really put up numbers, and he's been hurt and all that. He didn't seem to have those
numbers in the past, he was good, but is this beyond that?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, we gave him a real good contract; so we thought he was pretty good.
And that's one way you can judge that. And he has been good. He's a good outfielder, runs
the bases good. He can hit a ball a long ways every once in a while, but mostly, he's a
RBI-gap-hitter-type guy that can hurt you. He puts the ball in play an awful lot. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT