NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 13, 1999
Bobby Cox
Kevin Millwood
Eddie Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Bobby, what are the dangers of walking the lead run on base there in that inning, in
the 8th?
 
 BOBBY COX: I never liked to do that too much. Sometimes you have to bite the bullet and
give it a go and throw it all out on the table and try it. With a guy like Rock coming in,
I know Ventura. He's like Olerud. Both of them hit left-handed, and Ventura can hit it out
of the ballpark, too. Just took a chance, and sometimes you take chances, they work out,
and sometimes, they don't. 
 
Q. Bobby, will you talk about your decision to remove Rocker and go with Smoltz as your
closer?
 
 BOBBY COX: I had my mind made up he would pitch one inning or part of one. We kicked
the ball around and he threw quite a bit. I was hoping he could get a full inning today.
And I just made my decision that inning. I thought this would be the ballgame, if we get
him out now, we'd probably win it. And I made my decision to use John. I knew I had him in
my hip pocket. 
 
Q. This doesn't affect Game 4?
 
 BOBBY COX: No, he wanted to throw. 
 
Q. I don't think we saw John Smoltz reach 96 on the radar gun.
 
 BOBBY COX: He's been throwing high numbers this year. 
 
Q. Bob, is this something that is going to revolutionize the way managers do things, or
is it just the fact that these guys are so special, your starters, that they can come in
and pitch relief?
 
 BOBBY COX: We may not do it the rest of the playoff, I don't know. I don't know. We've
had rest. Kevin had six days' rest coming in here; four after his one inning, and Maddux
had six days' rest and three after his one-hitter. Smoltzy is going to have two after his
one inning, but he's going to have about six days, also. The numbers and the days and
everything, the rest periods, it's good. 
 
Q. Even though you say they have had rest, it's pretty unusual to see now three
starters that have appeared in relief in the postseason. What is there about the makeup,
physical, mental or otherwise of your starters that they can relieve? 
 
 BOBBY COX: That's just it. They do have good makeup, and they're not going to panic and
get scared out there. Mad Dog relieved last year in San Diego and saved the game for us, a
critical game. Kevin's performance was his first one. Smoltzy, that was the first time
he'd ever done it. I don't know if Glavine has ever done it, I don't know. But you have to
have a good makeup and you have to be kind of special. I'm sure a lot of pitchers could do
it, but these guys have pretty good stuff, too. You kind of want to get them in there;
it's not a desperation-type thing. But there was rest in there. When Smoltz was on rehab
in the minors, he pitched on two days' rest. When he got going, he was good to go. 
 
Q. Bobby, just the way you used your pitchers down the stretch, especially bringing
Smoltz in at the end, does that signal how important you felt a 2-0 grip on this series
was, to grab this game or this series by the throat, whatever?
 
 BOBBY COX: I think when you have the opportunity to win, you better grab a hold of it,
yeah. If the game had been tied, somehow they had tied it up in the 8th, I wouldn't have
pitched Smoltzy, at all. We had other guys in the bullpen that could get him out, too. But
it was a critical part of the ballgame, and once we still had the lead going in, yes, I
wanted to go ahead and grab it, you bet. 
 
Q. Kevin, would you talk about your performance today, and did you feel as sharp as you
did last time out?
 
 KEVIN MILLWOOD: I didn't feel quite as sharp as I did last time. Seemed like I was
getting behind a lot of guys. I thought my curve ball wasn't where I wanted it to be, and
my slider was good at times, but at other times it wasn't. By far, I didn't have my best
stuff today. But I was just telling myself to keep us in the ballgame and give us a
chance. And the longer the game went on the better I felt and the better my pitches got.
Like I said, I just tried to keep us in the game and give us a chance to put some numbers
up on the board and win the game. And that's what we did. 
 
Q. Can you talk about Kenny Rogers, his style, what a great move he has to first?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, we learned to glue our feet to first base (laughter). You have these
meetings, and you go over the pitchers, their moves and things like that with the whole
ballclub. And we knew; we were talking about he has a real good move, a good one. And we
always have a lot of players that speak up. Ozzie Guillen, coming from the American
League, said it's not a real good one, it's a great one, and he'll pick you off. I told
Gerald and the guys: "When you first get up there, you're not running. His move is
good." It's borderline, but we weren't stealing; so it isn't our fault. 
 
Q. For both men, how do you feel going to New York now, up 2-0?
 
 BOBBY COX: It's better than going 0-2. Each one of these games is filled with so much
pressure. You're trying to win one game at a time, and that's all we're trying to do. 
 
Q. Bobby, did you discuss with the first base umpire that his move might have been too
good?
 
 BOBBY COX: I talked to Charlie; it was close, real close. Even if it was a balk, it
wouldn't upset me. We were wrong. We weren't going anywhere. 
 
Q. Where does his right foot have to go?
 
 BOBBY COX: 45 degrees between home plate and first base. It's close. He's an
experienced guy, and he's going to get away with a little bit more than normal. He's got a
good one. He's got the best one I've seen. Andy Pettitte has the other one. 
 
Q. Kevin, can you address the question of going back to New York 2-up?
 
 KEVIN MILLWOOD: I think it's like Bobby said. We wanted to jump out ahead of these guys
and put the pressure on them while we were at home. Now that we've locked it up where we
know if we have to, we can come back to Atlanta. But I think going to New York 2-0 is
going to give us a lot of confidence, and maybe it will make those guys press a little
bit. 
 
Q. Bobby, pitchers talk about having good stuff and not having good stuff. Do you as a
manager ever view yourself that way, and if so, what kind of stuff did you have today in
terms of making managerial decisions?
 
 BOBBY COX: Did I have? My stuff is always the same. 
 
Q. It is?
 
 BOBBY COX: It could be bad, too, I guess. I had my mind made up before the game started
what I could do and shouldn't do and things like that with our pitching staff, yeah. And
our pinch-hitters, too. We got into a situation that we had to do what we did. 
 
Q. When you bring in Rocker, how specifically are you thinking to face Olerud?
 
 BOBBY COX: I would have made a double-switch if I was going to let John pitch the 9th
inning. I didn't. My mind was made up. I pitched Olerud; we'll walk Piazza, and get
Ventura, and that's it for John. 
 
Q. Did the Mets play into your hands a little bit in the second inning by bunting
there, Kevin?
 
 KEVIN MILLWOOD: Not really. Got the pitcher up, and he's been in the American League
for a while, and you don't expect those guys to be able to swing the bat real well. And I
guess what he was trying to do is get two guys in scoring position for Henderson. And
that's what he did. He did his job, and it's my job to get Henderson out after that. I
made a good pitch on him. And Boone, I made a good play and got him out. I wouldn't
second-guess that move. I think if I was managing, I would probably have done the same
thing. 
 
Q. When you lost Javy, obviously, you lost a lot of offense, but now the way Eddie is
going, it doesn't seem like it's too big of a concern right now?
 
 BOBBY COX: Javy put up numbers last year, hit .300 last year. And he's not an out guy
by any means. He's a great defensive, skilled catcher that can catch and throw and work
the pitchers, and he can hit, too. He is probably not going to hit 35 or 40 home runs like
Javy could, but he might. He can hit good pitchers. I've seen him in playoffs before, and
going down the stretch off big-time closers. So it's not unusual for Eddie to hit a home
run or drive in a big run. He's done a fantastic job, just super. 
 
Q. Bobby, going into that inning, where you all broke it open, were you walking up and
down the dugout trying to get the guys fired up a little bit?
 
 BOBBY COX: Yeah. We were getting some base hits, but we weren't going anywhere. It was
impossible to hit-and-run against him, because you can't get off the base; you couldn't
steal. The only thing that I was going to do that I didn't do, because a pitch was never
thrown home until Gerald got picked up, was bunt him over. He's very difficult -- I can
understand how he can throw low run-scoring games. I think there's been one stolen base
off him all season. And somebody guessed right, probably. But he's very difficult. Yeah,
we were trying to talk it up. We were kind of putting ourselves in the hole by putting
guys on and getting picked off. 
 
Q. Bobby, of course you want to win every game, but with the 2-3-2, as opposed to the
2-2-1, would your strategy have changed if it was a 2-2-1 situation?
 
 BOBBY COX: No, no, I don't think so. 
 
Q. Do you applaud the Andruw Jones School of Base Runs, by standing on the base?
 
 BOBBY COX: No, that was not good. We'll talk about that, too. The fact is we made some
-- we got picked off, and we shouldn't have gotten picked off. We knew going in what the
guy had, and I guess we just didn't believe it. 
 
Q. Are you surprised that Bobby left Rogers in to pitch to Perez?
 
 BOBBY COX: No, we weren't really hitting him very hard. He was doing a good job. If we
did get a hit or two, keeping the ball on the ground -- and I don't even know what the
pitch was. Something cut back over, maybe, I don't know. But he hit it. But, no, the guy
was -- he was tough to hit at, I thought. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT