NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 13, 1999
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Bobby, before we forget, what are your plans for tomorrow?

BOBBY COX: The plane is supposed to leave at one o'clock, and we're going to fly right
into LaGuardia and go to the ballpark. The baseball gear is being flown up early in the
morning; so it will be in everybody's locker when we get there, and we won't have to fight
traffic to the hotel and back to the park and back to the hotel. It's the smart thing to
do.

Q. What time is your workout planned for?

BOBBY COX: Four o'clock.

Q. Bobby, you obviously didn't take a lot of thought to keep Walt Weiss in the line-up
today, I suppose?

BOBBY COX: Well, it did, really, because initially, I had thought a couple of days ago
I'd probably play Hernandez today against Rogers, and with Millwood pitching. But the fact
is, Walt had a great night. He looked good at short, and he swung the bat well. I think
he's a little bit -- he's swinging the bat a little better from the right side than he is
the left side; so we're going to go ahead and go with the hot hand right now. It's not
demeaning Hernandez in any way. I feel very good with him out there; it's fine. But Walt
is playing good right now, so we'll go that way. It's a great situation having two
right-handers on the bench instead of one; so it's a little bit of a plus.

Q. Can you talk about the role that Don Baylor has played on the staff this year, his
impact on the club?

BOBBY COX: He's been a great coach. He's worked hard. I think he's got the attention of
a lot of the hitters. We have scored some runs this year. I like Don an awful lot, and
everybody knows he can manage, and he's going to do it again real quick.

Q. You expect to see him doing that next season?

BOBBY COX: Oh, yeah. There's no doubt in my mind.

Q. What would you rather go through a long delay like Cincinnati, or just get it out
early and play, play tomorrow, and wipe out the open date?

BOBBY COX: No, we're not going to be delayed today. We're going to be on time. The
forecast is real good. It should be clearing up here in another 45 minutes to an hour. I
looked at the radar a little while ago with the guy. He said it looks real good. We're
going to be fine. I'd rather play the way it's set up, not miss a day, not get any
rainouts, because your pitching is already set. You'd rather keep it on the terms that
you've set up.

Q. Bobby, is it tough bringing back Rocker? It won't be 24 hours if you need him in the
8th or 9th inning today?

BOBBY COX: I don't think so. I haven't talked to him yet, but he threw a little over 20
pitches. He's had plenty of rest coming into this series, and that was four outs last
night. He should be fine. I don't think there's any problems.

Q. Will you talk a little bit about the decision to take out Remlinger last night?

BOBBY COX: Remlinger has been a great pitcher for us. He's done a great job. I felt
fine with him in there, but I know Rock has done a good job with Olerud; Olerud hits
left-handers very well. There's no advantage to bring in a left-hander because he hits
them. He's a little tougher to hit at for most left-handers. Remlinger is great with
right-handers. He swung hard last night, himself. But just in that situation, Rocker had
plenty of rest. I thought it might be the best thing to do.

Q. Just along the same lines, a lot of people have said your bullpen this year is as
good or better than it has been in any of the past years. Would you agree with that,
especially in the late innings, with your set-up guys in Remlinger and Rocker and Seanez
in the late innings?

BOBBY COX: Our bullpen has been good all season. But we are missing Seanez; he's been
gone a couple of months. He was a huge part of it. We've always had pretty good bullpens
in Atlanta. We didn't win the Divisional Championship and get to the World Series a couple
of times and play this good without a good bullpen through the years. One of the best
closers we ever had was Alejandro Pena that was washed up with the Mets, and we got him
late in the year for nothing. He was remarkably good. He was fantastic. He did it
basically with one pitch, a fastball that wasn't anything like Rocker's, but it was
located in great areas of the plate. And Ligtenberg has been good. Wohlers, a year or two
has been good. It was an easy position for most critics to pick on, because there wasn't
much else to pick on or talk about. Every once in a while, you blow a game; so it's
highlighted in the bullpen.

Q. That's several different names you've mentioned as a closer. Is Rocker a guy you see
continuing this role and continuing that trend?

BOBBY COX: Yeah, Rock is a conditioned guy. He's always in great shape and he keeps
himself in great shape, and maybe even too much so sometimes, I think. He does an awful
lot of work, and he's a big kid. Two years ago, John Rocker was not fairing very well in
our Minor League system. And all of a sudden, he went to the Arizona Fall league and
started pitching in relief a bit, and wound up that same winter during the draft. He
wasn't picked in the expansion draft; he was exposed. He went over to Puerto Rico, and was
named Fireman of the Year in a short period of time. He came back to our camp and we sent
him to Triple-A to get a few games under his belt. And then the guy just blossomed like
that; it was history.

Q. Seeing what he did, getting four outs in Houston and doing the same thing last
night, would you be comfortable going with him in the 8th inning or would you rather not
do that?

BOBBY COX: For one out or so, it's not bad, but for two complete innings, if you're up
against the wall and he's rested, sure, you would probably do that. Last night's game he
could have been out of there in 11 pitches, and then he had to face some extra pitchers.
If they're rested, it's usually no problems. Rivera did it the other night; Wohlers used
to do it quite a few times during the course, if he's rested, he could go a few innings.
If they're hot, you have to take advantage of it, but only if their properly rested.

Q. From your perspective, Bobby, are most pitchers born to be starters or born to be
relievers or is it a transition within their careers?

BOBBY COX: I don't know. In John's case, maybe he was born to be a relief pitcher,
because you guys are getting to know him pretty good during the playoffs. He's a little
different (laughter). He's very high strung and excitable, but yet keeps his composure
with his deliveries; mechanics are good. Maybe he was born to be a relief pitcher. A lot
of relief pitchers were always a starter, and John was always a starter in the League.
Gossage was a starter; Eckersley was a starter, at the beginning of their careers. But
maybe -- in this case, maybe he was born that way.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT