NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 12, 1999
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Bobby, does it bother you that the city has had such a hard time selling out the
game; it's so hard selling tickets to a game like this? 
 
 BOBBY COX: Quite honestly, I didn't know it wasn't sold out. Bad forecast tonight, too.
I thought it was sold out. 
 
Q. Can you talk about your decision to put Walt in the line-up tonight?
 
 BOBBY COX: Walt's been here for a while. He's a very good shortstop. He feels really
great. Obviously, he hasn't played in a long time. He did play down the stretch in a few
ballgames and looked good. He looked good in Houston when he came in, and Don has him
swinging a lot better right now. He's a great defensive shortstop and I thought I'd go
that way for tonight's game, anyway. 
 
Q. Bobby, do you still treat Piazza like he's a hundred percent, even though he has the
thumb injury?
 
 BOBBY COX: Yeah, I saw some film of him swinging last night at the workout and he
looked pretty healthy. We'll watch him swing tonight at batting practice. Yeah, I think
we'll treat him exactly the same. If he's fit to play and fit, we should respect that. 
 
Q. Are you going with nine pitchers, and if you are, are there any risks involved in
that?
 
 BOBBY COX: Yeah, I think there is a little bit. But we've always had a third guy that
could catch. It's always been Colbrunn, the last two years, and that could play first
base, and he was one of our better pinch-hitters. We didn't have him this year. We've
elected to go with Fabregas, a legitimate catcher. We always carried three guys that could
catch. And one would sort of go with two, with Eddie and Myers. But Eddie does have a
little bit of a bad knee. He's not a fast runner to begin with, and it doesn't affect his
running, but it could possibly blow out. And if you're going with one catcher, it's a
little bit dangerous. But nine pitchers is a little dangerous, too. We'll see. 
 
Q. Can you compare the fans of Atlanta to the fans at Shea Stadium? 
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, I guess they're a little different, more vocal, maybe in New York, but
we have terrific baseball fans in the city. And New York is a little different, period.
There's Met lovers there forever, a big rivalry with the Yankees, and the Met fans fight
with the Yankee fans. We don't have that down here. I walked a lot in New York and met a
lot of people. I think some of them come to the games; they seem polite and nice. Every
ballpark is going to have problems at times in the stands. We're probably no different. 
 
Q. Your experience, the fact that you've been to the NLCS eight times, how much does
that help you?
 
 BOBBY COX: I really don't know if there's any type of an edge there. You're still
nervous and butterflies and all that, because it's fun and it's a big deal for us. We try
to get here every year, and we've been lucky enough to accomplish that. I don't know,
first-inning jitters, I think everybody is going to have them. 
 
Q. Bobby, let me follow that question up. With all of the teams you've brought this
far, where do you rate this team?
 
 BOBBY COX: It's a little bit different than last year's team, actually, without Lopez
in there and Galarraga with a lot of power, but yet it's still a very, very good ballclub.
It's different in ways -- I think this year's club is a very good base-running club.
There's nothing I've done to make them better base runners; it's just the fact that we've
run the bases very well this year; stolen a few more bases. We've got clutch performances
from guys like Gerald Williams all year long. Once he got in the line-up and stayed there,
I left him in there. He's a much better player than just a platoon type guy. We don't ever
pinch-hit for him anymore. He's gotten a lot of big hits. We had guys on the bench, when
those guys went down, guys stepped it up a notch and did very well with it. And given the
opportunity, you know, they took it and ran. Power-wise we're probably -- we don't hit as
many home runs, but I think this year, we scored more runs than last year. 
 
Q. Does the fact that you had to battle all year and that you were in a tight race
pretty much to the end of the week, does that make you guys a little sharper for this
series?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, I can't ever remember going through the motions the last week of the
season. Even though we had closed the other teams out, we've never done that. And we
played awfully hard in New York this year because they were still in it along with
Cincinnati and the other clubs. I don't think we're ever any sharper. I think clinching it
early gives you an opportunity to set things up the way you want. I'm sure Boston would
love to have Martinez starting tomorrow night. And some teams that get in it just can't do
that. Mike Hampton pitched, what, the third game. 
 
Q. Bobby, do you think the gusty winds tonight could alter either pitcher's approach?
 
 BOBBY COX: I don't know what the weather is going to be like tonight. I know they're
calling for drizzle, and it is out there right now. But we're going to hit in it, and we
may even start the game in a slight drizzle. And the wind was blowing. And sometimes you
don't know which way the ball is going to fly out of here, either; it could be blowing in
and swirling out. The only thing that bothers pitchers, if you can pitch in Candlestick,
you can pitch anywhere. All of our pitchers have been through that, and so have the Mets.
Cold nights where the balls are slick, and you don't have any moisture on it, I think
pitchers do lose touch. 
 
Q. Can you talk about facing Kenny Rogers tomorrow night and the problems he presents?
 
 BOBBY COX: We have not seen Kenny Rogers. He did not pitch against us. We've seen him a
lot on television and videos and things like that; and we've got videos, whatever that's
worth. But we know a lot about him, of course. And when he's on, he can be as tough as
anybody. 
 
Q. Bobby, what do you remember about the last time you faced Kenny Rogers in Game 4 of
the World Series?
 
 BOBBY COX: With the Yankees, yes. I don't really remember that game (laughter.) That's
the game we had the lead and we lost it. 
 
Q. Do you feel like there's any more animosity than normal between the Braves and the
Mets right now?
 
 BOBBY COX: I don't think so. I honestly don't think so. They've been a real class
ballclub over there. I like a lot of their guys. There's a few players in the League you'd
rather not have on your team, probably, but I couldn't name you one on that team. 
 
Q. Bobby, you mentioned that you watched batting practice for the opposing team tonight
and during the series, do you get anything different from that than you would on game
tapes?
 
 BOBBY COX: I think guys try different things in batting practice, hitting the ball the
other way and stuff like that, and in the games they don't actually do that. But guys that
are injured, sure, you'd like to get a little look at them. I'll have somebody watching,
if I'm not, to see what Mike is doing. But I saw enough last night to see he's pretty
healthy. So it wouldn't make a lot of difference. 
 
Q. Bobby, this is a more important series, I guess, than last week, as long as you won.
But you wouldn't go as far with exhausting everything or using everything in a third game
in a four-out-of-seven as you did the other day, would you?
 
 BOBBY COX: That was a little different, and tonight we probably won't have that luxury
to use starters out of bullpen or anything. John Smoltz has only had two days' rest since
he pitched. I doubt that we could bring him in tonight, since he's pitching Game 4.
Possibly tomorrow night. I'm not saying we won't, but we'll go with the regular bullpen
tonight, yeah. A three-out-of-five-series is tough. Cleveland just lost, and they had a
two-game advantage. It's such a crapshoot when you go in there on a short series that
every inning is important. Not just the game, but every inning is so important. 
 
Q. This is a better pace for managing, isn't it, the four-out-of-seven? 
 
 BOBBY COX: Yeah, I think the first round, definitely. No team really should play like
the Indians, or even the Red Sox, if they hadn't of won. It's not quite fair to have a
five-game -- I know it's going to take a lot longer. But maybe they should reduce the
number of games in the regular season, cut it down a little bit, and certainly make the
first round a seven-game series. I don't think you play all year long and get knocked out
in three games; it's not quite fair, likes Texas. 
 
Q. Bobby, can you expect to dominate the Mets the way you did during the regular
season, and in particular, the last two series that you faced them?
 
 BOBBY COX: You know, we've played really good against them. A lot of those games have
been tight, and a lot of those games could have gone either way. What we expect to do is
to play good baseball; that's what we're going to attempt to do. And if we catch a break
here and there, then maybe we'll have some success. 
 
Q. It's been said that you guys have been on top of the mound for a long time, and the
Mets have been trying to get up there to replace you. Do you recall in your baseball life
the shoe being on the other foot, being part of a franchise that looked up to another team
and was constantly trying to get up there? 
 
 BOBBY COX: Sure, the Dodgers were always a team that we were trying to catch, and the
old Cincinnati Reds were that way. But the Dodgers were the team that everybody was always
trying to catch, and to beat, and I guess it's that way with the Mets. We've won our
division for a number of years. The Dodgers used to do that consistently. But I thought
the Mets, really, they had a lot of tough luck, when they had those young pitchers,
Isringhausen, Pulsipher and Wilson, those guys came at one time. And it looked as though
they were going to have some starting rotation. All those guys were injured and something
happened to them. They've done a great job. With the pitching you have now, it's hard when
you lose three young guys like that, that you were building with, and still later, be
right in the thick of it. 
 
Q. Bobby, could you talk about how solid Kevin Millwood has been this year?
 
 BOBBY COX: He's been awfully solid. I think -- I don't know exactly the stats on his
first four or five starts, but since that time of the season he is almost -- he's carried
a few no-hitters, not really close to the 9th inning, but he's had a lot of them after the
4th and 5th inning, where nobody has collected a hit. He's been one of the dominating
pitchers in our League, I think. Even though he won 17 last year, he's much better this
year. 
 
Q. Do you now consider him right there on the same level with your other guys?
 
 BOBBY COX: Yeah, you bet I do. He's in the same class, sure is. I wish he would get a
few more votes for Cy Young this year, but I don't know. 
 
Q. What about Rocker, and the way he's coming around. Did you see that comment before
Ligtenberg's injury?
 
 BOBBY COX: John Rocker and Rudy Seanez came up together last year, and they really made
our bullpen strong. And it changed it for us a lot, I thought. And yeah, you could see it.
And there was some debate going into the season whether or not John would be the closer or
Ligtenberg would be the closer. Ligtenberg is the guy that has good stuff and throws a lot
of strikes; so he's perfect for that roll. But John closed enough games or set up enough
games that we were interested in him a lot in that position. And he's had a great year and
having a great playoff. 
 
Q. Bobby, there's been some talk if the Yankees get to the World Series or the Braves
get to the World Series, one of those will be considered the team of the decade, can you
talk about that?
 
 BOBBY COX: Yeah, I don't really think much of that at all until it's brought up. And I
don't really have an opinion on that. The only thing I'd tell you, you've been a strong
organization in the 90's, and that's -- people can think what they want to think, I
suppose. It would be good to be classified as the team of the 90's or the decade or
whatever, but something we don't go around thinking about. Really, it's year to year. 
 
Q. Bobby, other than the wild card status, do you see any similarities between this
Mets team and the Marlins in '97 and the situation going in, does it remind you of that at
all?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, the Marlins had a real good ballclub, and Al Leiter was pitching for
them and Kevin Brown. It's pretty similar, but any team that's in the playoffs, I don't
really consider them a wild card. To get as far as they've gotten, they're a good
ballclub, and they could have been a divisional winner. But the teams in there I don't
consider wild cards. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT