NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 11, 1999
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Bobby, is it an advantage or disadvantage to have beaten the Mets five of the last
six games?

BOBBY COX: I think it's the same for both clubs. I don't think you have to go on your
scouting reports as much as you normally would because you're fresh from playing them.
It's not like we're playing somebody we've never seen out of the American League. So,
yeah, both clubs know each other pretty good, I think.

Q. Bobby, were you surprised that they decided to pitch to Chipper early, and now with
Brian's success, how do you think they'll treat him in this series?

BOBBY COX: I think we had Klesko hitting behind Chipper, and Klesko was swinging the
bat real good. We're healthy right now. Our pitchers are healthy. Our hitters are healthy.
Jordan feels fine, and Jordan's going to hit cleanup. And he's swinging good. I don't know
how they're going to pitch to him. I don't know.

Q. Bobby, can you talk about your rotation?

BOBBY COX: Yeah, it's going to be Maddux, Millwood, Glavine, Smoltzy the fourth.

Q. Bobby, can you talk about Gerald and Bret, what they bring to the line-up?

BOBBY COX: Gerald Williams has been a spark for the ballclub, ever since he took over
out in the outfield. And he had a lot of playing time, and he proved that he can play on
an every-day basis. We never even consider pinch-hitting for Gerald anymore. Basically
when we traded for him for Milwaukee, we traded him as a fourth outfielder, platoon guy,
back-up type of player, but he's better than that. He's proven he's much better than that.
He practices hard and he stays in great condition, and he can make things happen on the
bases.

Q. Bobby, what do you think the team has learned from the last two LCS appearances?

BOBBY COX: I don't know what you can learn from them. I don't know. We've won some and
we've lost some. I don't know if you learn from winning or learn from losing. Hopefully,
we'll have a little luck. 

Q. How much has Bret added to the club?

BOBBY COX: He's a good ballplayer, and he can do a lot of things. He can hit a ball a
long ways. He's an RBI guy, hitting in the second slot.

Q. Bobby, there's been some talk between the teams that you kind of stay away from
that?

BOBBY COX: I do. I don't post anything on our boards. I don't care what anybody says to
me, to be honest with you. I think you either come to play baseball or come to talk; so
you better come to play baseball.

Q. Bobby, are you surprised that the Mets made the playoffs after taking that game from
the Mets in the late season?

BOBBY COX: No, they still had their head above water when we left there. The thing the
Mets did, nobody talks about much, probably, talk about the other team going down,
Cincinnati, but they beat Jason Schmidt, Cordova and Benson in the three-game series, and
that's pretty good pitching that they beat. You have to give them some credit. They didn't
really have control of their destiny; Cincinnati did. And they lost a tough game when they
were leading 3-1 in the 8th, I think, with Milwaukee. But they certainly didn't back into
this thing.

Q. In your clubhouse, Bobby, how much respect do you guys have for the Mets?

BOBBY COX: That's a joke, first of all, a lack of respect. I don't know where that came
from, but that is a complete joke. Of course, they are a great team and they've got our
respect. Anybody that's in the playoffs, you better respect them. They've got a lot of
great players on that team, and they're good guys. I like them.

Q. Can you talk about the rivalry with the Mets and how it's evolved over the last few
seasons?

BOBBY COX: We really don't have a rivalry anymore, since we moved out of the West. The
Dodgers, of all things, them being on the West Coast and us on the East Coast, were the
biggest thing we had to a rivalry; and we were supposed to create one with Florida, and
that hasn't materialized. I don't think we really have a rivalry. The rivalry is who is in
first or who is in second, competing each year.

Q. Bobby, when you brought Weiss in late in the game in Houston, do you consider doing
more like that, and what was the reasoning?

BOBBY COX: No, he's defense. It was because I wanted to, I guess. I wouldn't want to
answer that right now. 

Q. Bobby, can you talk about the problem it poses when you beat a team during the
regular season and you have to face them again in the LCS?

BOBBY COX: I honestly think, we say it all the time, but nobody seems to believe it: It
is a new season. And I don't think what you did in the past has a lot to do with what's
going to happen in the future. They're all new ballgames. It's good that we beat them a
few times, knowing that we can do it. And I'd rather have beaten them than not have beaten
them, that's for sure, during the course of a season. But this whole thing starts fresh.

Q. Bobby, what are your impressions of Bobby Valentine as a manager?

BOBBY COX: I really don't know Bobby Valentine that well. I never saw him in the
American League, and I really don't know. And I don't think that playoffs, the World
Series are about managers; it's about the game of baseball and players, really. I'll leave
that to you people.

Q. Do you feel the best way to stop the Mets is to probably to win Game 1?

BOBBY COX: Well, we lost Game 1 against Houston and came back. Yeah, I don't think it's
going to stop anything, to be honest with you, because everybody is competitive. And
they're not going to let one game -- you're not going to lose your confidence after one
game. But we're coming off a pretty good roll, ourselves.

Q. Bobby, do you like the wild card, or would you like to go back to just the division
winner is in the playoffs?

BOBBY COX: It's the rules. I haven't thought about it in any other way. I think the
wild card has been terrific for baseball, having as many teams we had trying to battle to
get into the playoff situation. It's creating a lot of interest in a lot of cities, and
it's been great for the races down the stretch. Believe me, those wild card teams are
good, whoever makes -- Florida won a couple of years ago; they were a wild card. Boston,
they could win tonight.

Q. Any line-up changes?

BOBBY COX: I'll post the line-up tomorrow.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT