NL DIVISION SERIES: ASTROS v BRAVES
October 9, 1999
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Bobby, can you talk about both your pitchers, first Smoltz, the job he did for you,
and then Rocker?
 
 BOBBY COX: Smoltz didn't lose it at all. It's hard to contain that team as many innings
that we've done that, you know, they have got to explode sometime. Bagwell had a decent
pitch and he had Everett 0 and 2 and hitting with a cutter. I knew sometime during the day
or yesterday we were probably going to nip Everett because we were trying to run the ball
up to him to try to jam him. I knew sometime today we were going to hit the guy. Caminiti
hit a decent pitch, too, but he had a great series, but I could have left John in I think,
and he still would have gotten out of it. He was strong. He went in that inning with less
than a hundred pitches. He was really strong today, had great control of the ball. Rocker,
another sensational job. That wasn't easy to come in that situation to get four outs
again. The game sort of got on the line there and, you know, we had luck today. We had a
lot of luck with our basehits. Everything we touched fell in for us and we had a great
pitcher on the mound. 
 
Q. Can you talk about the team this year?
 
 BOBBY COX: We've got a good club. It always starts the guy that throws the ball starts
the game. We had four excellent ones and Chen and Mulholland came in at the right time and
did a great job for us. Mulholland was a great part of our game. He came in release
several times and got them out. He started a couple of ballgames and won. We needed a lift
when he came over and he gave it to us. It's a good ballclub. They know how to play the
game and they are really aggressive on the bases, can really run the bases well. 
 
Q. Bobby, could you think this is more significant than other years, this win here?
 
 BOBBY COX: It's hard to say. They are all significant, believe me. I mean that's what
you're being paid to do; is win these things. Every ballclub is paid to do that. That
starts the season in April. We've been fortunate. We have had a good club for a long time
and that's when you start the season, that's what you talk about. So it's a blend of some
real characters on our club. I mean, they have really -- can play the game pretty well and
could do a lot of things. It's a different type club. 
 
Q. Bobby, two questions: What is the team that has been to a straight division series
and do you think you will end up seeing the Mets again?
 
 BOBBY COX: We've got great leadership with Ted Turner. Paul Snyder recently is retiring
this year. This is -- he's helping the new scouting director. Roy Clark threw one year and
then Paul's retiring. He's done a tremendous job. I mean all these players out there on
that field, the Glavines and the Chippers and the Lopezes and all those guys, Kleskos,
those are all Paul Snyder's guys. We've had a great scouting division. I don't think we
spend the most money in baseball, but we've been able to keep our players. They want to
stay there for the most part. I think they enjoy the surroundings in Atlanta. It's a great
place to play. It's a tremendous ballpark. We have not as many sellouts as St. Louis and
McGwire but we have a few. It's always possible when the Mets, you know, the numbers had
to work out. The equation wasn't looking good for them, that's for sure, and it just
worked out since he got beat by Milwaukee twice and that's all it took. I know since he
led that one game in the 8th inning 3 to 1 with Neagle and somehow they got beat and the
Mets win three to one in a row. Cordoba, Benson pitched the last two and I forgot who
pitched the first one, Jason Smith. That's not mincemeat out there trying to beat them.
They beat them, so they have got a real good ballclub and they have done a great job. They
were wounded but they came back. 
 
Q. They have won eight straigt division titles. Did you ever think you would see the
Mets again in postseason?
 
 BOBBY COX: You mentioned our record against them. That honestly does not mean anything.
These series, they all start new and, you know, I mean the Mets are a good club and so are
the Braves. It should be a great series. I think you throw out the records always. I guess
nobody ever believes the managers when they say that but it's very true. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT