NL DIVISION SERIES: ASTROS v BRAVES
October 9, 1999
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Bobby, did you get a chance to see the highlights of what Weiss played last night?

BOBBY COX: Yeah, I did, late last night and it was, you know, just a terrific play to
catch the ball, number one, and, number two, to have the ability to jump up and/or crawl
up -- I don't know exactly how he did it -- and flip a perfect strike to homeplate. It
was, you know, I've seen Andruw Jones make great plays all season long in centerfield, but
that one might be the most important one that we make.

Q. Bobby, in all the jams you've been in in your major league career, how does that
rank last night with the bases loaded situation?

BOBBY COX: I think that probably has to rank number one. I've seen teams get out of
jams before. If you spend enough time in this game, you'll see it, but it's a tough jam to
work out of. We wiggled and we were successful and maybe a little luck involved or what.
Rocker was really terrific. He threw strikes and didn't give up anything out of the
infield, got a strike out and probably more times than not, you would see Rocker, if he
was going to get out of that inning, probably strike out, not with the bases loaded, but
I've seen him strike out before and that would be a more conventional way to get out of
it. If you hit the ball, you've got a great chance to strike and they hit it twice, you
know.

Q. Bobby, you managed yesterday like an elimination game using all your pitches. Would
it be different today?

BOBBY COX: It will be somewhat different. It wasn't an elimination game. Fact of the
matter is, those guys can pitch an inning, two innings, whatever is called for, and they
were available to do that. It was Maddux's throw day and it was Millwood's throw day even
on the one day. We used that as the one inning or one hitter. Today Millwood won't be
available and if we got into extra innings again and we were out of guys, I guess
tomorrow's pitcher is going to be Greg Maddux. There's always that possibility but it's
very remote.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT