NL DIVISION SERIES: ASTROS v BRAVES
October 5, 1999
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Is it going to be difficult to win three of four against 220 game winners?
 
 BOBBY COX: We would rather have won the first game. Somebody had to lose it. I mean,
teams have lost the first game before and won series. So we can reel off a bunch
ourselves. We are not actually running minced meat out there. 
 
Q. What made Reynolds so effective tonight and what do you have to say about them
pitching around Chipper already?
 
 BOBBY COX: I thought he pitched a good game. He still won 14 games this year, whatever
it was. That is a lot of wins. I think he is still maybe considered the ace of that staff.
I thought he threw great. I didn't see his last three starts, but I know they have been in
and out and all. That, everybody goes through that, but he was good today, so was Maddux.
They are both good. 
 
Q. Were you surprised by the smallness of the crowd?
 
 BOBBY COX: To be honest, I didn't even look up. I couldn't tell you how many were up
there. 
 
Q. Why did you bat Klesko clean up today instead of Jordan?
 
 BOBBY COX: That is where he has been. 
 
Q. What did the Braves think about pitching around Chipper and is there a way you can
counteract that?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, they can do whatever they want. We hope we have some hitters behind
him if that is what the intent is. I mean, I don't know exactly what they are doing. 
 
Q. Is it possible the great success the Braves have had in the Division Series makes it
a little harder to get up for the Division Series?
 
 BOBBY COX: No, this is what we have played for all year. No, we just -- we didn't do
anything much offensively and it didn't look pretty, that is for sure, because we didn't
-- we had some chances, a hit here and hit there. I mean, the game is broken up. But we
didn't get to do that. 
 
Q. In the second you did a great job getting hold of the suicide squeeze. Was that a
hunch or did you see that coming?
 
 BOBBY COX: No, just a guess, that is all. 
 
Q. Do you think the key was the fifth inning with bases loaded; Klesko up?
 
 BOBBY COX: What do you think? I mean, yeah, hell, if he gets a double there, we win the
game probably, but Bagwell had a chance too at one time. You can't do it every time, sure,
one of the keys. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT