NL DIVISION SERIES: ASTROS v BRAVES
October 5, 1999
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What is your reaction to the Mets ending up in the playoffs after you left them for
dead?
 
 BOBBY COX: We left them bleeding a little bit after we left New York. They still had a
crack at it. The other teams controlled their own destiny, and they didn't do it. They
ended up winning three and Cincinnati lost two out of the three to Milwaukee, or won one I
guess, out of three. Good, because they have got a real nice ballclub. A real good
ballclub, and good players on it, good guys. And you know, they went through some hard
times there for eight consecutive days or so, and we were in New York for three of those,
and it was kind of rough on them. They have got a real good ballclub and they sort of
deserve to be in. Certainly, Cincinatti is going to get a lot of credit for doing what
they did. They could have made it pretty easy, and I know they were winning the game in
Milwaukee 3-1 with Nagel, who started that game, and they ended up losing that one, and
that was probably the game that killed them.  
 
Q. Would you give us your thoughts on Jose Lima and what he's done this year?
 
 BOBBY COX: The only thing that's important is what he's done. He's won 20 ball games,
and he's been one of the best pitchers in the National League and he's got the chance to
be to be the Cy Young Award winner. He's going up against his teammate, Mike Hampton and
Randy Johnson, of course. He's in that category and he's one of the best pitchers in the
league.  
 
Q. Do you think going into a series like this, do you think about it going to five
games?
 
 BOBBY COX: I don't think about that, no. Not much. You know, you'd love to sweep in
three. Any manager would. I think you just play them one at a time. We come out of the
chute with Maddux and we'd go -- Millwood would still have three days off to relieve in
that game, if that's what you mean.  
 
Q. Do you have any thoughts about the format, i.e., should the team with the best
record play the team with the best record, regardless of the wild card in the division?
 
 BOBBY COX: This year, there's not a weak team in the group, and I'm not sure there ever
is. Last year, the Cubbies were the wild card. This year, they had so many injuries with
their pitching; they didn't have a good ballclub. You know, the rules are the rules, and
it's something I don't think about a lot because it doesn't make any difference; you know,
you go by the rules. You know, the team with the best record should play the team with the
worst record, but it's so close this year, any team could winning this thing.  
 
Q. Talk something about the development and the maturity of Millwood this year?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, we're talking about a 17-game winner last year, and this year, what
did he win, 18? He could have won the 19th. To me, he's a better pitcher this year. He's a
little more overpowering. He's got that good hook right now. Come up with a change-up,
slider and a curveball. But basically he spots his fastball really well, and it's got
movement. He's not down the middle of the plate much, but he looks as if he's really
matured as a pitcher because he looks like a guy that's been pitching maybe for seven or
eight years. He's that type of guy.  
 
Q. There's been a lot of talk about how this was a more rewarding season because of the
other injuries. Was it a more emotional season, more difficult?
 
 BOBBY COX: Maybe more difficult. I don't think it's any more emotional. The one injury
we addressed was Galarraga, because it was a cancerous tumor. We addressed that in spring
training, and it was something we needed to talk about. But the other injuries we didn't
discuss on the team at all. We just brought up somebody and put them in the lineup or took
somebody off the bench and put him in the lineup and tightened up the belt a little
tighter and played baseball. It's not as brutal as a guy being injured and you move him
over five yards and you run another play. In baseball, the schedule is so long, there's no
reason to talk about injuries. And we had good guys on the bench and we got Hernandez and
Mulholland to help out, too, down the stretch, and those were great acquisitions. And we
had good players on the bench that knew how to play the game.  
 
Q. What does it mean to be termed "The team of the 90s"?
 
 BOBBY COX: I'm not so sure -- I don't know, because everybody is asking that, and I'm
not sure we are termed that, because everybody is asking that question: Should you be or
whatever. That's something I don't give much thought about. It's nice. It would be nice, I
suppose, but I don't think it's anything our players think about or I think about,
certainly.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT