NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: PADRES v BRAVES
October 14, 1998
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How good was Hitchcock as opposed to --
 
 BOBBY COX: Hitchcock was really good. We've ran into him twice now, and he's did
exceptionally well. First time, he got wild and gave us some runners to try to score, and
we didn't do that. Only reason we had runners the first time was because he got wild. He
was equally as tough today. He has a great curve ball, throws the fastball by the guys,
and throws -- Dave Stewart has done a wonderful job. He threw in, in, in, in when he came
to Seattle. He throws away now, and you can't catch up with him. I knew they wanted to get
him in as the No. 3 guy. As long as a month and a half ago, I heard the rumor they were
going to slip him in there. And some guys widened their eyes at that. You saw why they did
it. He is extra tough to hit at. He is really tough. 
 
Q. Bobby, how big was that play when they started Vaughn?
 
 BOBBY COX: Yeah, a little roller went through. We were going to give them one run at
that point, and we tried to hold them to one, but we end up giving five. Yeah, it's the
smart thing to do because Caminiti was trying to make contact today, from what I saw,
because it was hard to see. The first base hit was a little roller up the middle. He was
trying to put the ball in play, which is smart. 
 
Q. Bobby, during that five-run inning, was there anything you would have done
differently?
 
 BOBBY COX: You couldn't do anything differently. We kept the ball out there. I think it
got in the lights or something, and that was the extra three runs. And Danny normally is
an outstanding defensive outfielder, but I think it got in the lights just enough. 
 
Q. Bobby, is this the time that you kind of really look at the team and maybe
reevaluate some things or is it too soon to do that?
 
 BOBBY COX: No, the team is good. You think Houston's evaluating their team, if they
kept the same team and took them to New York the day after tomorrow? They might sweep it
in four. They're a great team, and they're not here, and they could easily throw them in
the World Series. I'm sure they're not reevaluating much, and we don't need to, either. We
went in the game today and the 3, 4, 5, 6 guy didn't get on base. 
 
Q. Do you start second-guessing yourself about taking the hot bat of Tucker out of the
line-up?
 
 BOBBY COX: No, it's the same line-up that had a great year against lefties. Michael
Tucker hit the other night, struck out against lefties. He had a great night the other
night, and Danny. How do you take out a .380 or .360 hitter against lefties? He had one of
the few line drives. At the time, the stolen base could have been big, if we got him in.
Your big guys in the middle have to hit some. Weiss got on twice today. We didn't hit. 
 
Q. How tough is their bullpen?
 
 BOBBY COX: We had some chances to score. Again, we didn't get the big hit. Chipper got
called out; runners at first and second on a pretty low pitch, there. I thought the
umpiring was just outstanding, all the games. I thought the umpires behind the plate did a
great job. I don't think there was even one argument on the field. I thought they did a
super job. 
 
Q. As upbeat as you were the last few days, how realistic was it for your team to climb
out of the 3-0 hole?
 
 BOBBY COX: I would still take our chances in a two-game series at home. It's
unbelievable that we're 0-3 at home. So much for home field advantage. But I liked our
chances a lot. Tommy, he had us right there. The one big inning that just -- and he wasn't
hit hard that inning, just a lot of little things, but yet they still count. I thought
they were smart. They tried to hit the ball. We were trying to hit the ball a little too
hard for not being able to see it very good. It was really tough to see the ball at 4
o'clock. 
 
Q. You mentioned Dave Stewart. Can a pitching coach have that huge difference on a
whole staff?
 
 BOBBY COX: That, I don't know. I'm just talking about Hitchcock. I just saw -- Kevin
Brown and Ashby have been great for a number of years, but I like Dave a lot. And I
thought I'd make that remark about Hitchcock, because he's on the outstanding side, this
guy. I don't care who he pitches against, he's going to get them out. 
 
Q. Bobby, Hitchcock hurt Maddux with a hit, also. Do your reports say he's a decent
hitting pitcher?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, the base hit he got off of Maddux was a little ground ball. And this
one was off the end of the bat that we dropped. They didn't give him a base hit on that,
did they? 
 
Q. Bobby, with this loss aside, can you characterize the season for the Braves?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, you can call it any way you want. We had a great year. We lost today
and it sure would be great to be playing tomorrow. That would be some matchup tomorrow,
Maddux and Brown. If you don't get hot in these things, in certain games, you're just not
going to win them. Somebody -- we just didn't swing the bats good enough today to really
mount much of a threat. But I think the guys, I mean, they played hard all year. They kept
their heads up even when we were 0-3. And they felt they could do it. We don't have
anything to be ashamed of, and I respect the way they played all season. They carried
themselves very well. We went about this thing from Spring Training with goals in mind,
and we tried as hard as we could. And that about sums it up, actually. 
 
Q. Is the disappointment the same every time you don't get to the World Series?
 
 BOBBY COX: I think so, simply because one of your goals is to get back there and win.
And the World Series is an awful lot of fun. And maybe you came up short on your goals.
But again, you could take that Houston ballclub and run right through anybody they play in
the American League. They're not here, and the ball didn't go their way. At least we did
get this far, and we just didn't -- we didn't make any luck today, to be honest with you.
We didn't hit enough balls to have chances to fall in. 
 
Q. When Boehringer came in, Bobby, did that look like an opportunity?
 
 BOBBY COX: We were five runs down, and we had the 6th, 7th, 8th and 9th to play with.
We didn't think we were beat yet. But they got out of that inning, if we could have
collected a couple there, and put pressure on them there, before they get to Hoffman in
the 9th. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT