NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: PADRES v BRAVES
October 14, 1998
Bobby Cox
John Rocker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Bobby, how hard is it to sit down Tucker and Lockhart, when they've been two of your
most consistent hitters all season?

BOBBY COX: It's not hard at all.

Q. Because?

BOBBY COX: (No answer.)

Q. Bobby, was Ligtenberg's arm strength and velocity okay in his last outing?

BOBBY COX: I think it was close, yeah. He just -- he got behind, and had to come in. He
went ball 4, and then we went 3-2. It doesn't matter if you throw hard or not, if you get
behind, you're going to get hit.

Q. Do you feel a little momentum on your side, especially after the way you won the
last two games in San Diego?

BOBBY COX: Not really. I feel the same way we felt -- I feel the same way as I felt
when we were 0-3, the same thing.

Q. John, have you been offered a football scholarship since the other night?

JOHN ROCKER: Haven't gotten one yet, no.

Q. How often have you batted in the minors? Take us through the at-bat, how many times
you batted and the trip around the bases. 

JOHN ROCKER: I think 40 at-bats, and I'm not completely inept up at the plate, but not
nearly as much batting practice as I should have. The at-bat, those are just pretty much
your basically five-pitch, walk, took one hack at a two-out pitch. Probably glad I didn't
hit it, because I would have popped it up or something. And no thoughts of ever scoring. I
was just actually trying to sit out and wait out the inning. And my baseball instinct sort
of took over and I started running. I saw Steve Finley's back, so I knew the ball had got
by him. And I saw him, and Ramirez, both turned around, heading to the ball to the wall.
And when I got about halfway around I never -- looked at Ramirez to see if he was going to
go for the ball. I never saw him, so I just slid in.

Q. John, can you talk about some of these idiosyncracies you have on the mound,
twitching your neck; have you done that since high school?

JOHN ROCKER: Yeah, I've got a little tick out there. I like to feel, I guess, I'm kind
of an all-effort kind of guy. So pretty much after every pitch I throw my clothes and hat
and everything in a shamble. I'm up there trying to straighten everything out, feel
comfortable again.

Q. Would Smoltz be available in the bullpen tonight or tomorrow night?

BOBBY COX: He's loosening up right now to see how good he feels for today's game, and
certainly would be available for tomorrow. 

Q. But not tonight?

BOBBY COX: Maybe tonight, I don't know until he comes back and gives me the report.

Q. Bobby, did you talk to Kevin Millwood about the fact he hasn't pitched?

BOBBY COX: We haven't had the situation where I wanted to bring him in yet. I told him
to hang with it. He had a great year, and he's fine.

Q. Bobby, has this been the most challenging series from a standpoint of moves you have
to make and moving people around as you've been in in probably the last six or seven
NLCS's?

BOBBY COX: Maybe, because we've been behind so often. We've been behind almost the
first four games, or all of them. Sometimes we're behind trying to catch up. When you're
trying to catch up, you have to do some things.

Q. More so than the series with the Pirates?

BOBBY COX: Yes, same thing. I mean we were -- if Cabrera doesn't get a base hit, we're
out of bullets again. But you've got to try to win. And that was a tough one, too. But if
you keep in mind that Bruce Bochy and Bobby Cox are trying to win ballgames, then you
don't have too many problems with other things.

Q. Bobby, Dave Stewart said this is one of the best LCS's he's ever seen as a player.
As a coach, would you agree with that?

BOBBY COX: Well, Dave would know. He's been in a ton of them. He's probably been in
more than I have, as a player. And it's been a good one, yes, because all the games have
been so tight. And I guess Monday's game may go down as a classic game, I think. It had so
many different varieties all through the ballgame, things that happened and a Cy Young
winner in their guy, and our Cy Young Award winner comes in. And it's just -- it was
great. I'm just glad in a big game, a classic game, we were the ones that were rallying
back. It could have happened in New York last night with Cleveland when it got to 6-5, but
that could have ended up just like ours.

Q. John, your conversion to relief, are you feeling better as the season goes on?

JOHN ROCKER: Yeah, it really kind of sort of jump-started my career. I was sort of a
500 pitcher all through the miners. And in Puerto Rico, I didn't get going, but I found my
niche.

Q. Can you talk about how John's role in the bullpen has evolved?

BOBBY COX: Well, it's been amazing, and his niche is relief pitching, no doubt about
it. And he got started in the Arizona fall League, less than 12 months ago. It continued
on to Puerto Rico and back to us in Spring Training. And we felt in Spring Training. We
felt it would be better if he pitched in Richmond for a while. And he did. And great
things were said from Bill Fisher down there about him. And we brought him up, and he's
been good from the first day. He was really, really impressive.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT