NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: PADRES v BRAVES
October 12, 1998
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Bobby, do you think those two full count outs that Brown had to get on Jones and
Galarraga on the 7th took something out of Bobby?

BOBBY COX: It may have. I really don't know. The only thing I know is I looked on the
board and he was throwing 95 miles an hour, and that's awful hard. I just don't know. I
thought he was throwing the ball pretty darn well.

Q. Did you make that move?

BOBBY COX: You know, I have no idea. I was trying to tangle with myself about bringing
Maddux in the ballgame for one hitter. I had him planned all night long for one hitter,
maybe two or three, it depended on what he looked like. He touched 91 tonight. I've never
seen him throw 91. I thought Kevin was throwing good. They had a great opportunity to
bring him in and close this out. And we got lucky and we hit a ball, and it went out of
the ballpark.

Q. What about your offense tonight?

BOBBY COX: The offense was good from the first inning on. We had three balls the first
inning. We came up with nothing with a man on second. And I just thought we really hit the
ball good from the first inning on all night long and felt like we were going to score
runs tonight. I thought John Smoltz had the best stuff he's had all season, especially
against a good hitting left-handed line-up. The ball Caminiti hit was off the plate a
little bit. And the one Vander Wal hit, you've got to tip your hats. But both of them
preceded or followed a walk and a chopped ball at third. And I thought -- he's not going
to get any press tomorrow, for sure, I know, because he gave up four runs. But I thought
he was on the awesome side tonight.

Q. What was the reaction in the dugout after Tucker's home run?

BOBBY COX: I didn't have any reaction. I was trying to grab Rocker to get a bat and a
helmet on him, so we could get Caminiti and Joyner out the next inning, to have him hit
with one out because I had Weiss at the plate. It was big, obviously. You know, it was a
game winner at the time, and it was huge. Our guys were really excited.

Q. Who messed up on the bunt: The runner or the hitter?

BOBBY COX: Maybe I messed it up, I'm not sure. It was a safety squeeze, it wasn't a
suicide squeeze. We have a fast guy at 3rd, like Andruw Jones. It's more of a sacrifice if
he reads it right; at least we get the guy to second. I must have missed it.

Q. How does tonight's 9th inning affect how you use your closer?

BOBBY COX: I don't think Kerry had stuff. Maybe I overused him. I didn't think his
stuff was good tonight. I think probably with a good day off, he might be back in true
form, again. We're going to need him. I thought he was getting close to the plate, but he
was off just enough. The name of the game is picking each other up. And Greg picked him
up. Lightenberg's been outstanding all season long. And the bullpen has been good, Seanez
and Rocker, I can't say enough about.

Q. Back to a two-game season?

BOBBY COX: Well, we had a one-game series tonight. Now we've got a two-game series back
in Turner Field, which will be very, very exciting, I think. It's a great ballclub that
San Diego has. And we have a great ballclub, too. And I think this might be the most
exciting playoff series going on right now. Seems like it.

Q. Did Greg know entering the game that he might go in and when was it discussed?

BOBBY COX: Way before we started batting practice today. I'm sure just like Brown; you
know, if they get a chance.

Q. You think some of the folks who didn't show up last week at Turner Field will be
excited about what they've seen now, and do you think there will be bigger crowds?

BOBBY COX: Yeah, to me, if you're only missing a few thousand people, you're talking --
again, in Atlanta, we drew almost four million people, and not too many clubs can say
that. And I'm sure they'll be back. It will be a great two games there. 

Q. Can you talk about Tucker's day today, his night?

BOBBY COX: Well, people are always asking when you start the series who's going to
play; who's going to do this; who do you think will be the star. And my answer has always
been, somebody that you may not even expect. Tuck had a rough second half of the season,
and he put us out the first two runs in Game 1 against the Cubs, in the first round with a
two-run homer, and he's hit some balls hard. Tonight he comes back with two base hits and
a game-winning home run. It could be anybody. And Tuck had some real good at-bats tonight.
He's playing hard as he can. He works as hard as he can. It's just one of those things.

Q. Would Smoltz be available for Game 7 in relief?

BOBBY COX: He'll be ready for Game 6, probably.

Q. Do you guys feel like you're in the driver's seat now?

BOBBY COX: I never feel like I'm in the driver's seat. If we have a 15-game lead in the
season, and there's 16 left, I don't feel that good, no.

Q. Given all the talent of your team, is character and heart underestimated given the
talent of your team?

BOBBY COX: If they had swept us four in a row, you couldn't discuss the character or
the heart of the club. It would be the same if we had gone down four in a row, as if we
can make it back winning four. It's the same guys. They give everything they have every
day, and I know all the clubs do. These guys are special, they've been here quite a while,
some of them, and they're willing to do quite a lot.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT