NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: PADRES v BRAVES
October 12, 1998
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Bobby, you said that momentum in the playoffs only lasts as long as your next
starter can take you. Do you have any feeling that what happened last night offensively is
contagious?

BOBBY COX: I do, yeah. Who knows how they're going to pitch tonight against us; that,
but it helps to see somebody come through in a big situation and get a base hit, whether
it's hit hard, soft or whatever. And we had two of them last night with Ozzie's line drive
to left, and then we kind of got a break with Lockhart getting an infield hit, hustling it
out. And that's a little bit of luck there in order to get Galarraga to the plate that
inning. It never would have happened if he didn't beat it out. And that kind of allowed us
to breathe a little easier. I think it is contagious, but we'll see. It's something to
feed off of, that's for sure.

Q. Bobby, are you superstitious at all? I know Guillen played well, anything that was
different yesterday that you're going to do different now?

BOBBY COX: Well, I didn't know about Kerry's sideburns. I hear he shaved them off. I
can't even see that far to the mound. I couldn't tell. And Ozzie, I don't know if that's a
good luck charm or not, but he's a good player. And Walt had three hits the day before, I
think, and we'll go this way and see what happens. As far as personal superstitions, I
think as soon as we lose, I stop them, do something else. I got a little Saint
Christopher's medal from some of my children; had that in my pocket last night. So I'm
going to carry that again tonight. I think we all do to a certain point. But I know
football teams do a lot: The same ways to the park and to the hotels. We all go through
that.

Q. Were you fairly satisfied in last night's game that it was fair for the hitters in
the early part of the game? By the 3rd, people started hitting the ball pretty well.

BOBBY COX: You know, these times are very difficult, I think. We're used to playing at
7:40 every night, and in complete darkness with the lights on. When you play at dusk, it's
a little harder to see. But I thought Hamilton was probably throwing about as good as I've
seen him pitch. He was really dealing. And I thought Neagle was really popping the ball
good, too. He had good stuff. I don't think it would have made any difference to either
one of those pitchers if it was fully dark or not, because they were on. But you'd have to
go up there and stand to find out the difficulty of picking up a baseball, moving like it
does.

Q. How is Walt today?

BOBBY COX: He's fine. He can play. He got injured in his head a little bit and shoulder
a little bit. He could have started the game last night very easily, but nothing that
keeps him out of the line-up.

Q. Is the line-up the same?

BOBBY COX: Yeah, it's the same line-up that we've been going with: Tucker in right
field and Lock at second, same line-up.

Q. You've had to use a lot of relief pitchers in almost every game of the series, are
they ready to go this evening?

BOBBY COX: Well, we have used a lot of relief pitchers. We've been behind in every
ballgame, just about. It's hard to play catch-up, without using your bullpen and
pinch-hitting as often as you can to score a run. I ran a poll, and they're all fine.
Seanez feels good, and Ligtenberg is fine. Martinez can always go one. So they're in good
shape. Day off tomorrow, we're fine.

Q. Would you potentially use Maddux in this game?

BOBBY COX: I don't know how effective he would be. I would say this: If we get into
real extra innings, where we're really out of pitchers, I think Tommy would have to be
available as well as Greg.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT