NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: PADRES v BRAVES
October 11, 1998
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Before the game, you practically predicted that Big Cat would break out tonight. Was
there anything you saw that made you think that?
 
 BOBBY COX: I just thought the odds were with us tonight on his bat. He's like everybody
else: He can get cold for four or five days, and then he can get hot and carry you. It had
to happen sometime, and boy, it was a big one tonight. It was a big, big hit. Of course,
Ozzie, I thought, played good, and got a base hit from Myers. But Galarraga's ball was a
big one. That set the stage for us. I thought Neagle played a great game. Leyritz's home
run, I thought, was a gapper. And then the ball in BP tonight was really, really jumping.
I don't know if it's going to be that way tomorrow night. It probably will be. It was
really traveling tonight. 
 
Q. Bob, is this up there with your biggest postseason wins?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, it's either win one tonight or go home. So it's darned big right now,
that's for sure, because I probably wouldn't have come in here if I got beat. I'd be
sitting in there somewhere. They're all huge, and we had a one-game series starting
tomorrow. And then two-game run home.  
 
Q. It was evident with your pitching staff, what level of confidence do you have that
you can pull this whole thing off?
 
 BOBBY COX: I'm not one to BS anybody. And I have a lot of faith in our pitching staff,
and it's about time the bats came around. Any kind of clutch hit at all anywhere in the
first two games, even against Brown, we had runners at 2nd and third, and it went into
left field and he caught it. If you catch a break, I'm not saying we're playing well
enough to have three wins or anything, but it was time for the worm to turn a little bit
with our lumber. And we haven't been hitting the daylights out of the ball, but it helps
to have one fall in that's not hit hard. We feel pretty good. 
 
Q. There was a big celebration after Leyritz's home run. Did that fire you guys up at
all?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, there was a big celebration after Galarraga's home run, too. No, when
you're in the playoffs, even in the regular season, somebody hits a big home run, it puts
you ahead and you're going to get a lot of high 5's and all that, and that's fine. As long
as they don't do jumping jacks around the bases, that's okay. 
 
Q. Bobby, how big was Lockhart's hustle in that little tapper?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, it set the stage for Galarraga's at-bat. His leg's feeling pretty
good. He's not running probably a hundred percent, but he's pretty close to it. I left him
in to face Myers, because right now the way Myers -- to me, I'm not sure if he gets
left-handers out better than right handers. I'm not sure of that, but that's why I left
Ozzie in the ballgame; he got a base hit. And I left Lock in. He's come up with a good
changeup and pitches off the plate, that if you start chasing, it you can't hit the guy.
He hustled, to answer your question, you bet. 
 
Q. Are you going to put Ozzie in tomorrow?
 
 BOBBY COX: Yeah, I think I'll play Ozzie tomorrow. 
 
Q. Why did you go to Ozzie on the day after Walter had the three hits?
 
 BOBBY COX: It was nothing more than -- Ozzie was playing awfully good. I kept trying to
get Walt Weiss well for the playoffs. And I still don't think he's running a hundred
percent. Ozzie was really -- he had a lot of tough luck at the end of the season, but he
still was getting his hits, and hitting two or three balls hard every night, some of them
getting caught. I thought he might get some hits on base and get the hits started. And I
know Weiss had the hits yesterday, but I just thought maybe he could add something. 
 
Q. Is Galarraga a hundred percent, and have you seen any signs of fatigue at the end of
the season or from the division series?
 
 BOBBY COX: No, not at all. He is in such great shape, I'm not sure that he would
fatigue any more than a guy ten years his junior. He is in tremendous shape. And his
hitting problems here in the last few days is nothing more than a hitter not getting any
hits. And I don't know if anybody in the other series is doing it, but maybe he's out of
it. I know Houston has a tremendous hitting ballclub and they didn't hit very good.
Galaragga has been chasing some bad balls, No. 1. But he's certainly not tired. 
 
Q. Bobby, how bad did Weiss get banged up on that play yesterday?
 
 BOBBY COX: He hurt his neck and right shoulder, his throwing arm a little bit. But if I
had to use him tonight, he could have played very easily. That was a pretty good
collision. 
 
Q. Bob, just strategically, what was your thinking on the placement of Rocker for Perez
there; was it in the 8th inning or the 7th?
 
 BOBBY COX: It was the 8th. Really only wanted to use Rocker one inning, and I wanted
one inning to get Gwynn the following inning. If we scored more runs, I would probably let
him start the inning. Rocker stiffens up bad, and he gets to the point where he can still
pitch, but he's still very stiff. And that was enough for him. He had had enough. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT