NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: PADRES v BRAVES
October 11, 1998
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Bobby, do you have any explanation for why Galarraga has been struggling so much?
 
 BOBBY COX: Not really. He's been a real consistent guy all season long. At times, like
any other hitter, they can get cold, and he's just missing some pitches, hitting some high
pop-ups, things like that. We feel he's getting close. And as you know, a guy like that
can carry you in a series like this. And maybe today they can unleash that power. 
 
Q. Bobby, we've asked you to explain over and over why you've decided to go with Neagle
instead of Smoltz, and you've stated your case well, obviously. But how much fear do you
have about the second-guessing that could go on all winter if something happens and it
doesn't work out for you?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, for me and the coaching staff and the club, there is no second
guessing. It's the proper thing to do, period. And you have to understand we're trying to
win a ballgame. And we wouldn't do something very, very stupid. So there is no second
guess, to me. 
 
Q. Does your team need more speed?
 
 BOBBY COX: No, not at all. We won 106 games without it. I don't think many teams,
Chicago didn't steal any bases. I don't think this club has stolen any. We've probably put
runners in motion more than anybody. No, not really. We need to hit. 
 
Q. Bobby, this team won 10 in a row, but is there a difference beyond the obvious about
scoring runs, Bobby?
 
 BOBBY COX: We couldn't have peaked at a better time, reeling off seven going into the
Cub series. And getting three and coming in here, we were hot. Things were going our way
pretty good. And I don't know, we ran into some real tough pitching here, period. And
Tapani was tough on us, too, in Game 2 in Atlanta. We didn't have any runs until one out
in the 9th inning when Javy homered. And the other games, we broke open late. It's always
an explosive club. But I have to think that their pitching right now has just absolutely
shut down good hitters. 
 
Q. As you probably know, no team has ever come back from 0-3, but because you have such
strong starting pitching itself, is that the reason you think you might still win the
series?
 
 BOBBY COX: Yeah, we do. We know, we're going to have to go up against good pitching. We
feel now it's a two-game series, here. We need to win two, then get back home, and see
what happens there, where we feel we're going to play good. Right now, for us, it's a
two-game series. 
 
Q. Any line-up changes?
 
 BOBBY COX: Today Guillen is going to play short. He played a lot for us down the
stretch when Walt was out. Walt's been playing good, but I want to give Ozzie an
opportunity to see if he can get in there and make something happen. 
 
Q. Have you thought beyond today? Is it going to be Smoltz and --
 
 BOBBY COX: Yes. Yes, Smoltz, Glavine and Maddux again. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT