NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: PADRES v BRAVES
October 10, 1998
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Bobby, it's a difficult position for the Braves to come back now?

BOBBY COX: Well, we can make it interesting. Win tomorrow, win Monday, and go home with
two. You can still make it really, really interesting, I think. They're certainly not
tossing in the towel.

Q. Are you planning to go with the same pitching plans?

BOBBY COX: Absolutely. Denny is ready. Should be a good matchup. It's not the pitching.
We need a couple of hits.

Q. Are you surprised they shut down your offense?

BOBBY COX: They've shut it down completely. We have good matchups going into
situations, and can't smell a base hit. It's one of those things. For some reason, we had
won 10 in a row; we were hot as a Dickens; getting line drives everywhere. And all of a
sudden, I don't know. Their pitching is awfully strong. But we really do have to clutch it
in. Tomorrow we have to clutch it in. We can't leave the bases loaded every inning without
doing some damage.

Q. Was it a difficult decision to pull Maddux in that spot? 

BOBBY COX: Well, if you're going to try to win, no, because you're going to pinch hit
for him the very next inning, because it's an eight-inning ballgame, they say. It was. It
isn't, then it's not. If you're going to try to win, it's not. His at-bat and his
slideball with the bases loaded is the best thing we hit.

Q. Bobby, were you tempted to go with Javy today?

BOBBY COX: Not at all. Eddie, as far as the way we swung the bat today, looked like a
star.

Q. Bobby, do you remember a championship series where the offense struggled as much as
it is now?

BOBBY COX: Not our offense. We shut down the Cubbies, and actually we've shut down San
Diego real good. But our offense just hasn't got going. But the one good thing about Eddie
catching Maddux, is you always have him on the bench in a big situation. And we had the
big situation, and we didn't get it.

Q. Are you still going with Neagle tomorrow?

BOBBY COX: Yeah, that was asked a minute ago. You bet. He's ready to go, and we'll go.

Q. Millwood, is he okay?

BOBBY COX: Millwood is fine. He got hit. I know what you're getting at. He could have
pitched. He almost got killed this afternoon after BP. A few inches either way, he would
have.

Q. Where did he hit it at?

BOBBY COX: Behind the right ear.

Q. How do you stop San Diego's momentum? 

BOBBY COX: I don't think we've given them any momentum. I think we've stopped
ourselves. I don't think we've given them any momentum. We just -- we can't create any of
ours.

Q. Is that swing selection a good swing selection, bad swing or what?

BOBBY COX: Hard call. For the most part, it's good pitching. Their pitching is tough.

Q. Is the thinking that you -- because Vander Wal plays so infrequently, you have to
make him make the play on Weiss?

BOBBY COX: Absolutely. You bet. He's got to go on that ball. You can't stay.

Q. Do you feel that there's a possibility of coming back, from down 3-0?

BOBBY COX: I absolutely do. We can win two here, and go back to our place. We could
make it very interesting.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT