NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: PADRES v BRAVES
October 8, 1998
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Can you talk about pitching dominance during postseason and how pitchers do things
like that in postseason?

BOBBY COX: I think simply because the teams that are in postseason, they have the
dominating pitching in the League. And you're running up against an outstanding starter
every single night. And if you look back through the course of the season, against your
guys, Pedro Martinez and Brown, they don't give up much, the Madduxes, the Smoltzes, they
don't give up runs even during the regular season. It doesn't change much in the
postseason. It's the same outstanding pitching that they're seeing. And a guy like Ashby,
I think I had him rated in the Top 7 or so in the National League before the season
started. I admired him that much. So the people that thought we were going to go out and
knock him around were mistaken. We weren't going to hit him all that hard. If you get
three or four runs, you've done a great night's work with a guy like that. And runs are
just hard to come by with outstanding pitching. And I think Houston, they can run Randy
Johnson at you, they come back with Shane Reynolds, and if you saw Reynolds pitch against
the Cubs the first four or five innings down the stretch, he had like nine strikeouts in
four innings, and that guy can throw a shutout with anybody. And then Hampton and Lima
threw good, too. It seems to me all the teams in postseason have outstanding pitching.

Q. Can you put your finger on why Greg struggled and how he'll be on Saturday?

BOBBY COX: He had a shutout against a good hitting Chicago Cub team a few days ago,
through the 8th inning, and he didn't struggle all that much. For Greg Maddux, yes, people
would think he had struggled. But if you watched the ballgames and saw the hits, he got
the ball up a few times and they hit it. But a lot of the hits weren't -- when you're a
groundball pitcher, some are going to get through. And it happened a few games in a row to
him. He's on top of his game right now. I would expect him to throw a great ballgame.

Q. Is Ligtenberg available tonight?

BOBBY COX: Yeah. I think he threw nine pitches the first inning. But the second inning
he threw a lot more. But he should be ready.

Q. Did you pinch-run for Javy Lopez late in the game last night for defensive reasons
or to stay out of the double play?

BOBBY COX: They're so hard to beat. If you're in the 9th inning, Hoffman is there, they
haven't blown any in 9-0 games or whatever it is. They don't blow ballgames. And we had a
gap, I was thinking maybe Danny could score. And the one thing that messed us up a little
bit was I wanted to keep Ligtenberg in the ballgame. He only threw eight or nine pitches
in the first inning. He pitched great, and I couldn't make a double switch, and get Neagle
in there and switch Perez into the spot. I thought we could hold him one more inning.

Q. When is the last time you had to make as many decisions as you did last night?

BOBBY COX: Well, you know, when a game is that tight and you go extra innings, you've
got to throw all your bullets out there, especially with their bullpen. And when you have
a chance to win, you've got to hammer the nail, if you can. If you wait around, there's
not going to be a second shot. Probably, if you play the percentages.

Q. Bob, when the Padres got Kevin Brown during the off-season, did you immediately
sense that they could emerge into this type of ball club?

BOBBY COX: Oh, yeah. They were good last year. They had a lot of injuries last year,
and the only reason they were down last year is because the amount of injuries that they
did have. But any team that gets Brown along with guys like Ashby, and even Hamilton and
Hitchcock, you're talking pretty good pitching there. So that's a real solid first four.
They were the team to beat by all -- the speculation around baseball prior to Randy
Johnson going to Houston was that San Diego would be the team to beat. And I could see
why. They had a potent line-up and they had that great pitching. Then it switched; as soon
as Randy went to Houston, they said Houston would dominate and go to the playoffs and the
series. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT