NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: PADRES v BRAVES
October 8, 1998
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Ashby and Brown pitched pretty well. Does that explain the offenses problems?
 
 BOBBY COX: I think it does, really. We had won 10 games in a row coming in here, and we
had hit the ball pretty good with the exception of one of those games. And Ashby, I
thought, was tough, and this guy tonight was even tougher. We hit two balls good all
night: Chipper's long fly ball to right field and Glavine's line drive down the left field
line were the only balls we really hit. And he walked a couple. We had him in trouble with
a couple of walks a couple of times. But we couldn't get the ball to fall in. We didn't
hit it good. And Tommy pitched a very valiant game tonight, I thought. It was a little
windy and cold out there,. It was hard to hang onto the ball for him. But he pitched out
of jams all night long. And the bullpen did a very good job up until the last inning. We
couldn't score against him. He was good. There's always a next time. We feel -- can't feel
great, being 0-2. But we have the type of club and pitching that we can easily roll off
four in a row. 
 
Q. You've seen Kevin dominate before. Is this the best you've ever seen him? 
 
 BOBBY COX: Against our club, yes. I saw him pitch a no-hitter against the Giants on
television, and I thought he had the same type of stuff that night as he did tonight. But
against us, this is the best I've seen. 
 
Q. Bobby, is this akin to being down 3-1 to the Cardinals a few years back?
 
 BOBBY COX: I know what this club is made of. We were trying like crazy to win the
ballgame, but we couldn't hit the guy. I don't know if any teams would have hit him
tonight. The Houston team has as good a line-up as is any in the National League and they
didn't touch him. And we have a good line-up and we didn't touch him. Maybe we can do it
next time. 
 
Q. Down 0-2, does that change any of the pitching rotation?
 
 BOBBY COX: No. The pitching rotation will stay the same. We just need to hit the ball
better. Getting one run a night is not going to cut it too many nights, off their
starters, anyhow. 
 
Q. Are the defensive problems a little surprising for you?
 
 BOBBY COX: We haven't played that poorly defensively. There were some odd plays. Javie
tried to pick a guy off and threw it away. Last night, that was a tough play, and Rivera
created a couple of errors, himself, I thought, with his base running. 
 
Q. Can you talk about the crowds, Bobby?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, I never looked in the stands tonight, so I don't know. I guess it
wasn't packed. 
 
Q. The last two nights it was 8,000-under capacity both nights?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, we're still drawing a lot. We drew almost four million this year.
That's got to tell you something. That's got to be the top two in baseball. And I think we
have great fans. But if some of them want to stay home and watch it on TV, I can't blame
them for that. That's a pretty good idea sometimes on school nights. 
 
Q. Anything more about Tommy's struggles tonight other than gripping the ball?
 
 BOBBY COX: No, not at all. Like what? 
 
Q. It looked like he was unusually high with a lot of pitches, but I didn't know if
that was grip or not.
 
 BOBBY COX: Tommy goes 3-2 quite a bit on a lot of hitters. He did that tonight. He
always leans a little bit but never falls. He certainly didn't tonight. He pitched a great
game. 
 
Q. Do you notice any similarities between Kevin Brown and Greg Maddux, the way he
pitched tonight?
 
 BOBBY COX: The one similarity is they both come at you. And Kevin threw an awful lot of
strikes tonight and Greg Maddux throws an awful lot of strikes. They don't mess around.
They go right after the hitters; that's the similarity. But Kevin was probably throwing
ten miles an hour harder than Greg. 
 
Q. In a 7-game series, how difficult is it to come back from 2 games down?
 
 BOBBY COX: We were down 3-1 to the Cardinals, and with this club, we have the type of
pitching and I think we've got the hitting, once it gets going, we could do that. It's
that type of club. San Diego is the same way, too. If they were 2 down, they have the type
of pitching, hitting that could real that off. I'd rather be 2-0 than 0-2, but I feel like
we can rally back. 
 
Q. Bobby, putting two aces up top like Brown and Ashby, what does that do to the
pitching staff, Bobby?
 
 BOBBY COX: I don't know if it does anymore than Smoltz and Glavine did for ours. I
thought they both pitched brilliant games, and their guys did, too. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT