NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: PADRES v BRAVES
October 7, 1998
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Bobby, can you talk about bringing Kerry out in the second inning?
 
 BOBBY COX: I think it was a reasonable thing to do, he only threw 9 pitches the first
inning. I thought he'd cruise through the next inning. 
 
Q. Can you talk about Klesko's play going from 1st to 3rd?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, you know, it's a good play. He made it pretty easy. And the ball could
have bounded somewhere, but they knocked it down. He plays hard. He's going to take the
extra base. 
 
Q. Bobby, does this test the resiliency of the club, more than anything else?
 
 BOBBY COX: It's a loss. I thought we did fine. The ball got hot there. Martinez did
good. He got a chopper, and when he released it, I thought Rivera did -- Galarraga came
off, and probably would have had him if he had bounced it. But we came back against their
best reliever. We had him in trouble every inning. And I thought Ligtenberg threw great
except for the one pitch to Caminiti. 
 
Q. Did this ever feel like anything other than a playoff game?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, you finish almost 2:00 o'clock in the morning, it felt like a playoff
game. We didn't have the introductions, and things like that. That took away from it a
bit, I thought. But what are you going to do? Leonard Coleman made a great call starting
the game, not completely knowing we'd get it in, but giving it a chance. It was a
reasonable thing to do to start the game. 
 
Q. Do you think it affected the play at all?
 
 BOBBY COX: No. I thought Ashby was on top of the game and Smoltz was very tough. It
didn't affect anything. The field was very playable. I don't think any throws related to a
wet field or anything like that. 
 
Q. Bobby, did you tell Glavine not to swing?
 
 BOBBY COX: No. He was swinging up to 3-1. Tommy is one of the harder outs. He's really
a tough out. And it didn't bother me a bit that he was the hitter, not one bit. He's got a
few silver bats in his collection, and he can do a lot of things with the lumber. 
 
Q. What was the call at third base on Rivera?
 
 BOBBY COX: He said he missed him. Is that what you mean? 
 
Q. Yes.
 
 BOBBY COX: I guess he was safe. I don't know, I can't see from the dugout. I couldn't
tell. 
 
Q. Just a general reaction to this kind of loss?
 
 BOBBY COX: A loss is a loss. I react the same. I'm not too pleased with losing anytime,
if it's 10-1 or 1-0. We could have won the game easily. We screwed up a squeeze bunt. I
thought Rivera -- we talked earlier about stars of the game, and who are you going to try
to avoid in the batting order. Rivera goes in for an injured guy, hits a line drive and
makes a great base running play against Andruw Jones, who threw it right on the money and
he ended up safe. And that was the big run for them, I thought. 
 
Q. Do you expect the rest of the series to be like this? The Padres have won three one
run games so far?
 
 BOBBY COX: It's good pitching in all the playoffs with all the teams. It's not
surprising that the game was that tight. I thought the pitching was good all over. I think
if you're a betting guy, you'd say they'd be pretty tight. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT