NL DIVISION SERIES: ASTROS v BRAVES
October 11, 2004
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  You juggled your lineup again.  Can you talk about changes tonight?
 
BOBBY COX:  Yeah, we did juggle a little bit just to see if we can keep, you know, gather a little luck with the lineup and jiggle it around a little bit.  Sometimes it pays off, sometimes it doesn't; we're hoping it does tonight.  
 
Q.  Do you feel you have the advantage with Jaret Wright going on four days' rest and Roy Oswalt going on three?
 
BOBBY COX:  No, I don't think so at all.  I like our pitcher a lot, Jaret Wright, he's been a horse all year.  They have a guy, Oswalt, that is one of the top pitchers in all of baseball; won 20 games.  If the adrenaline doesn't get you going on three days' rest in this situation, nothing will.  
 
Q.  Would you talk about the specific lineup changes. 
 
BOBBY COX:  It's not a big deal, but we're leading off with Furcal; J.D. Drew second; Chipper Jones in the third slot; Johnny Estrada, who's very good getting runs in, one of the top guys in the league, in the four slot; Andruw Jones has been extremely hot in this series, he's hitting fifth; and LaRoche, sixth; Gilly, seventh, he's a good RBI guy, can hit them in from there; and Thomas eighth and right. 
 
Q.  Has Estrada hit cleanup previously this year?
 
BOBBY COX:  Yeah, he has.  
 
Q.  How is your bullpen tonight?  You've gone about ten more innings than the Houston bullpen. 
 
BOBBY COX:  We've been running polls all day long on how each guy is.  We'll know a little bit more after batting practice.  They're all going to say they're ready.  Either win or go home, so everybody's going to be ready, and hopefully their arms will hang on for a little bit longer.  
 
Q.  Will that also include Mike Hampton in relief again if necessary? 
 
BOBBY COX:  That, I don't know.  I don't know.  He did a wonderful job yesterday, and that was a lot to ask of him, I think, even one inning.  But he did it, and I think that was a big turning point in the game, him giving us that one good inning against the middle of their lineup.  I'm not so sure he'll be ready tonight.  
 
Q.  What is Smoltz's availability?
 
BOBBY COX:  He's jumping around.  He's bouncing off the walls.  He's ready to go - at least one.  
 
Q.  If you advance in tonight's game, you're not going to have much of a turnaround to get to St. Louis if you win.  Can you talk about advance preparation.  Would you talk about your roster moves or potential roster moves. 
 
BOBBY COX:  Yeah, we don't have any turnaround time hardly.  Tomorrow would consist of leaving here about two o'clock, meeting the scouts and trying to get a workout in at the same time and play Wednesday.  Right now, I won't announce who's pitching Wednesday yet.  I won't announce until tomorrow some time who's going to take Thomson's spot.  
 
Q.  The crowd in Houston were great.  There has been a big push in ticket sales here today.  This game is sold out, too.  Is that something you're concerned about, or do you just concern yourself with between the bases?
 
BOBBY COX:  I think it's a great thing for the city to pack it in tonight.  I was very pleased with the crowds the first two games and the way they were energized in the stands and cheering for us.  We felt it in the dugout, there's no doubt about that.  I thought they did great the first two. And tonight even is a complete sellout, so our players are thrilled with that. 
 
Q.  Last time you were here you were holding back on Chipper in batting practice.  It looked like he was taking full today.  Is his hand better?
 
BOBBY COX:  The last three days he's been taking a lot of extra hitting, and with a lot of different groups on the field and in the tunnels within the confines of the stadium, and he feels good.  I think Chipper's energized.  He had two hits yesterday and lined a shot on the double-play that he hit to the shortstop.  I just got a hunch he's going to come through big tonight.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT