NL DIVISION SERIES: ASTROS v BRAVES
October 9, 2004
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  As opposed to Clemens working on three days', Ortiz has about ten days'.  Any concerns about that?  What has he been doing to get ready?

BOBBY COX:  Well, it's like Maddux, when I asked him that question once.  He had over ten days', he said, "Bobby, I'm not going to forget how to pitch."  He's been throwing on the side a lot.  He threw yesterday and had a terrific side session, I watched it.  He should be fine. 

Q.  With Roger pitching on three days' rest, your offensive strategy, will your hitters look for anything different, wait him out more to see what he has?

BOBBY COX:  I think they're going to take the same approach they did last time.  We did a good job of getting on base, we just didn't do a very good job of getting them in.  Roger really, when he got in trouble, he just got out of it easily. He's got a great split and some other pitches, too.  He's a veteran guy still with very, very good stuff.  He's tough.  I think once you get a pitch to hit, if you see it, you'd better hit it.  Not going to get a lot of them. 

Q.  Falling behind after the first game, what was the mindset of you and your team?

BOBBY COX:  Well, it wasn't the end of the road.  Everybody wants to win the first one in a five-game series.  That's a big one to win, I think. We approach every game as if it's not do-or-die, it's another ballgame.  So losing one, you have a good chance, you get to play again the next day and win.  So everybody was upbeat, I'll tell you that. 

Q.  Considering the way Game 2 ended with a walk-off home run, was that a dramatic ending for you guys or did it give you an edge for today, or is that game just in the past?

BOBBY COX:  I think just winning the ballgame...  And a walk-off home run is always a good way - or a base hit - to win a game.  I think it gives everybody a little more confidence that the other guys will get going now and contribute. That game's over with, to be honest with you.  It's a whole new ballgame today. 

Q.  Could you talk about Ortiz, the way he's struggled, and how he has handled that and how he is reorganizing to get going today. 

BOBBY COX:  I think Russ has won more games the last five years than any other starter.  He won 21 last year, he won 15 this year.  Those are great numbers to have.  Pitchers always struggle some.  He picked the time late in the year to struggle a little bit.  In between those struggles, I think he threw a two-hit shutout in Montreal and pitched a great game. I look for Russ, the way I've seen him on the side the last few times, to really pitch a good ball.

Q.  His last start against the Mets was one of his best.  What did you see in him that day that had been missing before?

BOBBY COX:  I think it's always location with the pitcher.  If they're hitting their spots, they're going to throw a good ballgame and keep you in your game.  If they miss their spots, no matter how hard you throw, if you miss spots consistently, you're going to get banged around a little bit.  Russ, that day, was hitting his spots a lot better.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT