NL DIVISION SERIES: BRAVES v GIANTS
October 11, 2010
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions for Bobby Cox.

 Q. Bobby, I know you probably didn't have a whole lot of options. But can you talk about your decision to go with Glaus at third and the lineup today?
 BOBBY COX: Yeah, I talked to Brooksy at length this morning. And, you know, he needs a day off. He needs to get away from it for a day. As you know, he's the darling of the fans here all season long, and this shouldn't happen to anybody in the game of baseball. But it's happened to Brooksy, and he needs a day off. I told him to hold his head high, and maybe pinch hit and win a game for us. 
 You know, he was our defensive replacement all year long. At second and third. And we couldn't wait to get him in games. So it's an unusual thing that that's happened.

 Q. You've been around the game a long time, Bobby, there have been other scenarios, postseason play, Willie Davis had three errors in one inning back in the '60s. Is this the closest you've been to a guy personally who has gone through a nightmarish-type scenario? 
 BOBBY COX: Yeah, on a personal basis, yes. And the Cincinnati Reds, I'm not sure if they led the league in Philly or not, but they didn't made hardly any errors all year, and they made two, four and three. How do you account for it? My answer is it's baseball. That's all you can say. 

 Q. He came in in defense in Game 2, but Glaus, being a starter for the first time this year at third base, what are your thoughts about that? 
 BOBBY COX: He has played third. He played third at Gwinnett for a week, two weeks, three weeks, whatever it was. And did okay over there. And we'll see how it goes.

 Q. Can you talk about Heyward and dropping him down to six? 
 BOBBY COX: Just trying to switch the lineup to get some. We got shutout in Game 1, yesterday we were shut out until the 8th inning. 
 Try to get Matty up front, maybe, and get on three or four times, see what happens. And maybe Jason can drive somebody in from down there as well.

 Q. What did you think of Hanson's outing in the second game? 
 BOBBY COX: Good. I thought he threw the ball extremely well. He made one really bad pitch. He was going outside on a fastball to Burrell on the first pitch of the at-bat, and it ran all the way middle in. Right in the wheelhouse. I said then, if he had pitched eight innings, he would have had 12, 13 punch outs. He had that kind of stuff. He had real good stuff.

 Q. So you're comfortable with a him in a Game 5 against Lincecum? 
 BOBBY COX: Yeah, very much so, sure.

 Q. Was it tough to talk to Brooks about that? I know you've always pulled for him. 
 BOBBY COX: It's always tough to talk about a subject like that. I just, you know -- the fans have really had his book all season long. I'd like to see them continue that. He needs that help right now.

 Q. How did he react, Bobby, when you talked to him this morning? 
 BOBBY COX: Well, we talked for a good length, and he was fine. It's not easy. His concentration is there, everything there is there. He's been a real good fielder for us. And, for whatever reason, you know, I cannot explain.

 Q. You said you were going to sleep on it. Did you sleep? 
 BOBBY COX: No, I didn't sleep very well last night, yeah. We came within a pitch of winning a huge ballgame, and we let it slip away. It's the first time we've had trouble like that in the 8th or 9th inning with our bullpen the whole series, really. Even the 6th, 7th inning, we've been able to cover and that's the way we've won all year. The bullpens covered for us. 
 No bullpen in baseball is perfect. But we've been almost perfect all year long.

 Q. Did you tell Glaus to be ready last night or today? 
 BOBBY COX: I think he knew what was up last night. I didn't talk to him last night though.

 Q. The other side of Brooks is Hinske's at-bat last night. It might get lost a little bit. Your flexibility on the bench tonight? You have a couple of switch hitters, you have some speed, you also have Eric. I'm assuming if they make a switch early, possibility of seeing Eric a little bit earlier?
 BOBBY COX: Yeah, and we can pinch hit. We'll see how it goes. We're a little short on righties on the bench tonight.

 Q. I know, of course, you're thinking optimistically today, but when you were missing your sleep last night, did your thoughts at all go to today could be your last game? 
 BOBBY COX: It hasn't. It hasn't (laughing). That's the first time it's been brought up today, and I haven't thought about it. Trying to plan a trip for tomorrow, and get the times of a small workout here in the cages before we leave and things like that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT