NL DIVISION SERIES: CUBS v BRAVES
October 3, 2003
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Bobby, your pitcher for tomorrow night, have you decided yet?

BOBBY COX: I'm leaning right now toward Russ Ortiz, but it depends a lot tonight with Ramirez.  You know, Mercker is probably not going to be able to pitch tonight.  If we need to win the game with Ramirez in some way, we'll do that.  Right now, I would lead towards Ortiz and Hampton coming back also.

Q.  Bobby, does the decision for the Game 4 starter, does it strictly depend on whether Ramirez is used tonight or is it a win-loss consideration also?

BOBBY COX: It's just a way I feel good about right now.  I have not made my mind up.  I'll talk to them within the next few hours and both of them said yesterday they feel great and they could come back very easily.  Both of them had low pitch counts, six innings.  It should be fine. 

Q.  Will you watch Marcus any closer tonight with the leg?

BOBBY COX: We had a work out yesterday and he did very well, and unfortunately, we're unable to get on the field tonight until the game starts.  He's been out running in the outfield and assures me he's fine.  We'll probably have him in.

Q.  Bobby, how did Smoltz come out of the game the other night and are you confident if you need him back to back, he will be okay?

BOBBY COX: I'm sure that John could pitch tonight and tomorrow, no problems at all.  I think he had a great 9 innings the other night and looked great, so he's ready. 

Q.  Apart from the field, do the facilities here make it difficult when you have weather?  Is that tough on you guys being the visitors?

BOBBY COX: I keep waiting for the repeat, but I'm sure Dusty would like to get his team out there too.  As cold as it is, I think it's a good idea to have the players out there for an hour, getting used to the wind.  It's got to be difficult for both sides.  I don't think I see any advantage at all for them, but I would sure like to be out there.

Q.  Bobby, can you say what would be Ramirez's strength, what has he been to you?

BOBBY COX: He's had a great rookie year.  He's been dynamite.  He's a pitcher.  He knows how to move the ball in and out.  We call him sneaky quick.  He looks like he's throwing a lot harder to the hitters than he does on the radar guns.  He's going to be pretty much a polished guy for next season.  We've got a guy we can depend on.


Q.  Can you talk about what kind of atmosphere you can expect at the ballpark tonight?

BOBBY COX: I think the same as the last.  Really vocal, loud.  It's fun whether they're booing you or cheering you, it makes no difference.  The electricity is there.  It's a lot of fun, fun downtown, the city, this morning, people everywhere talking about it.  I think it's exciting for Chicago, you know, to have playoff games here.  They've waited a while to get back in it.  I love Chicago, and it's a fun city and a great ballpark.  It's an old one, but it's one of our players favorite places to play.

Q.  Bobby, if you do go with Ortiz in Game 4, is it more of a reflection of how you feel about Ortiz or Ramirez being a rookie or anything?

BOBBY COX: Talent is talent.  Whether you're 40 years old or 20 years old, it makes no difference.  I don't think being a rookie would have that much bearing for me.  As I said, right now I'm leaning the other way. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT