NL DIVISION SERIES: CUBS v BRAVES
October 3, 2003
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  I'm sure you expected much more from your offense?

BOBBY COX: We really didn't hit that many balls hard, and Prior was a little bit wild early in the game and we couldn't take advantage of it.  That's probably where we got hurt a little bit.  You know, if a pitcher makes a mistake, somebody's got to get a hit somewhere.  He had great stuff there tonight.  Maddux I thought threw a terrific game.  He made all the pitches he needed to, and he got beat with those jam shots.  Typical Maddux runs actually.  The balls they hit good, we caught.  The balls they didn't, fell in.

Q.  When you took Maddux out, did he tell you something or --

BOBBY COX: He hurt his calf the very first inning and really hurt it again the third and he gutted out the next few innings he pitched, and I thought he did a great job pitching on one leg.

Q.  Bobby, do you have a final decision for tomorrow's starter?

BOBBY COX: Yeah, we're going to pitch Ortiz and come back with Hampton.

Q.  As well as you played over a decade, is it frustrating for you to be scrambling in a series?  I mean, it has to be.

BOBBY COX: We don't feel like we're scrambling.  I'm not down at all.  All we have to do is win two ballgames.  We've done that hundreds of times.  I still feel real good.

Q.  Did you hear the mock chop and what did you think about that?

BOBBY COX: No, I did not to be honest.  I didn't really hear anything tonight. 

Q.  With all those pitchers you have had in Atlanta over the years, can you give an assessment of Prior with such limited experience and how composed he is?

BOBBY COX: You could see that the first time he came to the big leagues.  He's been around the block.  It's not like an 18-year-old coming up here.  He's got plenty of poise.  He has good control, even though he got off his mark early in the ballgame.  His control is pretty spectacular.

Q.  Bobby, you say you're not scrambling, but do you feel like you're being outplayed?

BOBBY COX: No, not at all.  We're playing okay, and a few hits would overcome some errors.  I don't think the errors led to anything.  We're playing pretty good ball.  We need to get a few hits in there to fall in.

Q.  What happened to Maddux?

BOBBY COX: I told you already, didn't I?  He pulled a calf muscle in the first and third inning.

Q.  What do you think of Randall Simon then and now?

BOBBY COX: He was always a hitter all the way through.  He was trying to pop him up and he looped it right in and the same with Lofton.  We had a game in Montreal with Hernandez pitching, and he made one bad pitch, and I told him the next day, I said you had a great Maddux day.  You made all the pitches but one.  That's typical Maddux run right there.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT