NL DIVISION SERIES: CUBS v BRAVES
October 1, 2003
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Can you talk about your decision to bring Smoltz in in the 8th inning?

BOBBY COX: We discussed it before the series started and he said he was good to go two innings at any time.  He will have one day off in between the next game so probably it will be good for one.

Q.  You talk about the first inning when Mike struck out the side and got out; the bases loaded situation?

BOBBY COX: It was probably the ballgame.  His first seven outs were recorded by strike-outs, and he had the stuff he just got off target the first couple hitters and got one sort of down the middle and he popped it.  After that I think they only got two hits the rest of the evening.  I thought Hampton pitched one of his better games.  Rule out the first inning, but the rest of it was good.  He was pretty much on the up standing side.

Q.  Talk about your timely hits.

BOBBY COX: He hit a bullet right at Gonzalez.  Giles pinch-hitting probably didn't hit it quite as hard, but it was in the hole.  DeRosa got the big hit in the bottom of the 8th, and he's a good hitter and he's hit his whole career he's been a good hitter.  I thought we swung the bats pretty well.  Zambrano was throwing the ball very hard tonight.  Sometimes the ball's got to bounce your way a little bit.

Q.  Would you comment about going into the series why you would have this discussion with Smoltz?

BOBBY COX: He feels good.  I had planned on one inning, most of the time two, if it was okay with John.  But he's the one that came to me and said I'm good for two, and our bullpen has been getting better and better and better, so, you know, for instance, Gryboski, that was on outstanding job.  The 7th inning was the huge turning point.

Q.  Before the game you talked about checking with Giles to see where he was from a physical standpoint.  Talk about that?

BOBBY COX: He just couldn't move and couldn't run.  He could swing the bat.  He said he was good to hit, and he just couldn't run, so I think by Friday, he might be okay. 

Q.  Dusty said one of the goals was to keep your team in the ballpark.

BOBBY COX: Yeah, it makes no difference how you get runs.  The weather has changed.  There was a real strong wind blowing in from left field.  In the summertime that ball is a homerun.  But tonight there was a pretty strong gale on that playing field.  Sammy got would have gotten his balls gone on a normal summer day.  We caught a break there. 

Q.  Based on tonight's performance, you would go to Smoltz in the 8th again if necessary?

BOBBY COX: Probably not on Friday.  Probably good for one.  If he's not used on Friday, he might be good for two on Saturday. 


Q.  Your thoughts about tying the series 1-1 and now going on the road to face Prior?

BOBBY COX: It's a great win for us tonight.  We have Maddux going against Prior, and it will be another great matchup.  We're looking forward to going to Chicago.  It's one of our favorite cities.  The more games we win the longer we stay there.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT