NL DIVISION SERIES: GIANTS v BRAVES
October 7, 2002
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Is Millwood hurt, is it the groin thing?

BOBBY COX: Millwood is 100 percent.  We were trying to win a ballgame. 

Q.  Can you just comment about your disappointment after what was obviously a strong season?

BOBBY COX:  I thought we played good ball.  We had our chances in the first game late, they were leading 8 to 5.  And we had runners on, just like tonight.  And we had our three, four, five guys coming up to power the order.  And they pitched good, the Giants.  The bullpen pitched good, their starters pitched good.  And it doesn't always happen.  A three run homer, two run homer to win it.  And Nen pitched good. 

Q.  Looking over this past season, what are some of the bright spots for the Braves?

BOBBY COX:  We had a lot of bright spots.  We had a tremendous year.  We pitched good.  Our bullpen was good.  We played good.  And, you know, we just missed outgoing to the NLCS by one swing of the bat probably.

Q.  Would you have foreseen a series where your starters couldn't give your bullpen a lead?

BOBBY COX:  We had a lot of good starts in the series.  Maddux was excellent.  Millwood was excellent twice and Tommy was so so.  The first game I thought Tommy pitched good.  He got blooped to death.  The second game he didn't have much luck either.  He was better the second game.  He could have won the first game easily.  Our starters were fine.  Our bullpen was very good.  Millwood had one more inning in him when I took him out, but we had to try something to get on the board, knowing that our bullpen would hold.

Q.  Barry Bonds is a great player.  Many of his detractors talked about his poor performance in the post -season.  I think he sort of stepped up in this series.

BOBBY COX:  I think he had two home runs.  Andrew robbed him of one over the center wall.  He still can run.  He's a much better hitter than he ever has been in his life.  He's probably the toughest out in all of baseball.  Maybe going back in history he might be the toughest out.  He's just a great player.

Q.  You've won some other series like this and lost some.  Is this one of the most devastating?

BOBBY COX:  They're all tough.  They're all equally tough.  If you're a real professional and care about your sport, they're all tough.  We wanted to win as bad as anybody in the world, and it just didn't happen.  We gave ourself chances.  That was the important thing, and it didn't materialize.

Q.  Maddux was in the bullpen.  Talk about your decision, if you had brought him in, what would have made that happen?

BOBBY COX: He had one inning in him tonight.  Today was his throw day.  He was going to throw late and he was going to face Aurilia, Kent, and Bonds. 

Q.  Would you talk a little bit about Sheffield's disappointing series.

BOBBY COX:  Anything can happen.  I'm sure not disappointed in Gary Sheffield.  I'll tell you that.  He gives you everything he's got.  He had a terrific season.  They didn't give him much to hit at, to be honest with you.  He had a pitch or two tonight that Nen made mistakes on and he missed.  Many of those -- -- they pitched him really tough, I thought.  We love Gary Sheffield.  He had a tremendous year. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT