NL DIVISION SERIES: BRAVES v GIANTS
October 10, 2010
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Bobby Cox.

 Q. Have you made a decision on Wagner yet? 
 BOBBY COX: Yeah, we threw him a little bit in the tunnel, and he can't go at all. We're seeking permission from the league right now to switch Billy and Saito out. Saito says he feels great, and we're going to go with it.

 Q. And indicate Saito's good, no limitations or anything like that?
 BOBBY COX: No, no limitations. Just the fact that he's thrown one inning in the instructional league. And they said all the reports are good. 
 We'd like to get him in any type of game, I guess, but we may have to pitch him in a real important spot.

 Q. I was not at the conference call, so if you addressed this yesterday, I apologize. I know at San Francisco you said you were leaning towards Derek for Game 4. Is that still the game plan? 
 BOBBY COX: He is pitching tomorrow, yes, absolutely.

 Q. What Derek did the other night, that set him up pretty good for short rest, coming out as early as he did? 
 BOBBY COX: Yeah, he only went 5 1/3, I think. And if you subtract the intentional walk, he threw 88 pitches, somewhere around there. 
 So he should be good. He's fired up about it. Even before we started these playoffs, he was politicking for Game 4, so he's got it.

 Q. On Wagner, yesterday you mentioned even if you didn't think he could pitch this series you might want to leave him on the roster so he'd be eligible for the next series. 
 BOBBY COX: You bet. That was our intention, but it was so bad today there's no way that he could possibly be ready for the next round. Maybe the World Series round.

 Q. Is there any chance that Jair's going to get in there? 
 BOBBY COX: Who? 

 Q. Jair. 
 BOBBY COX: No. Well, he's feeling good. But what we need right now is Saito. J.J.'s knee is feeling really good. Maybe for the second round.

 Q. Jair's still on schedule to pitch tomorrow or Tuesday? 
 BOBBY COX: I think so. I haven't had time to talk to Roger hardly all day long, yeah.

 Q. Do you project ahead to a possible Game 5 yet and who will pitch Game 5? 
 BOBBY COX: That's Hanson's game, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT