NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: BRAVES v DIAMONDBACKS
October 19, 2001
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Do you think Lopez had a real good look at that ball on the throw home? 

BOBBY COX:  I think it came out of Schilling's jersey.  I asked Javy, then I asked Chipper.  Couldn't really tell.  Javy thought he should have caught it, yeah.  What did it look like to you? 


Q.  His glove was in the right place. 

BOBBY COX:  The ball just didn't go in it. 


Q.  What about the bunt?  Should Franco have stayed back?

BOBBY COX:  The problem was Womack didn't show bunt, then he did.  The first time, we play him way up the middle with our second baseman.  He's almost further away than the hitter is, actually.  So it's kind of my fault probably.  I didn't spot Giles.  He could have bunt, you know.  Should have had him closer probably. 


Q.  Did Franco hesitating on the Counsell play keep him from being out on that play? 

BOBBY COX:  Which one was that? 


Q.  The roller down the first-baseline.  Third inning. 

BOBBY COX:  I think he was going to beat Burkett over there, Counsell was.  Yeah.  That's the one play you work on in spring training where the pitcher breaks and keeps going.  If he can't catch it, he keeps going.  You know, we call it the bitch play, so (laughter).  That happened.  You work on it, but it's hard.  Burkett's not the swiftest of foot.  But he pitched good, I thought.  We were trying to keep the score 2-1 in the fifth inning.  Our bullpen made the pitches, we just didn't execute.  


Q.  Talk about Schilling's performance, what you saw in him tonight.

BOBBY COX:  I thought he was on the awesome side.  I thought he pitched great.  He's so much better now than he was with the Phillies, to me.  He's a better pitcher. 


Q.  Why? 

BOBBY COX:  Just the way I see him.  He can spot all of his pitches now.  He doesn't do anything accidentally. 


Q.  It looked like your batters tried their best to work the count as much as they could against Curt and not try to be impatient. 

BOBBY COX:  Well... You try to, but he's strike one most of the time.  I don't know how many times he went tonight.  But he very seldom goes 2-0.  He did a few times tonight.  I don't know how many pitches he wound up.  First good ball you see, I think you better try to hit it probably. 


Q.  Did you think Jordan had a chance to throw out Schilling at first base?

BOBBY COX:  I think there was a shot at it, yeah.  Julio just, you know, he hasn't been in this league.  He doesn't know Schilling.  But if he had just turned around, Jordan was ready for it.  He may have gotten him, may not.  Would have been fairly close. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT