NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: BRAVES v DIAMONDBACKS
October 19, 2001
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Is it still a wait-and-see on a Game 4 starter? 

BOBBY COX:  No, I think we're going to go with Maddux for sure tomorrow.  Then we'll play it by ear again. 


Q.  Talk about your decision to do Maddux on three days.  You've not done a three-man rotation in an NLCS before, I don't think. 

BOBBY COX:  Well, we've never had a bullpen this strong either.  They're awfully rested.  All of our starters have had so many days' rest throughout the year than, you know, the Houston series we wound it up in three.  Gave Doggy and Maddux and Burkett six days off.  Only threw 89 pitches the other night, which is good, too.  He's ready to go.  He should be able to do it easily. 


Q.  Can you tell us specifically about your bullpen.  You've mentioned about the diversity there.  What do you like about it specifically?  Which guys?  What do they offer? 

BOBBY COX:  We have some power pitchers out there.  Smoltz, Karsay, Rudy Seanez, when Remlinger's right, he's a power guy, can strike guys out.  He's got a lot more strikeouts than innings he's pitched.  Reed's a guy that can come in and knock off a good right-handed hitter.  Ligtenberg is a guy, he had a phenomenal year.  We haven't even used him yet.  But we like him a lot.  Most of them throw a lot of strikes.  They don't walk people. 


Q.  When a guy like Millwood might be disappointed with this decision, what do you say to him?  

BOBBY COX:  He could still get a start very easily. 


Q.  When you face a guy like Schilling for the second time in a series, does anything change from your standpoint? 

BOBBY COX:  No, nothing changes.  You just hope that he makes a few more mistakes than he did last time, and he doesn't make a lot.  When he does, you better be able to hit the ball.  It would be nice, you know, to get the lead, two- or three-run lead in the sixth inning where maybe they have to pinch hit and get him out of the ball game, get rid of him.


Q.  I know Caminiti is not on the roster.  Did he go home? 

BOBBY COX:  Yeah, he's gone home.  Uh-huh.


Q.  He's done for the year then? 

BOBBY COX:  I think so, yeah. 


Q.  How's Javy doing today?  Any changes to your line-up tonight? 

BOBBY COX:  No, Javy's doing very well.  It's the same line-up. 


Q.  Your starting pitcher decision for the next game, will it depend on what happens tonight?  I mean, how do you decide a starting pitcher for Game 5? 

BOBBY COX:  Might depend on tonight and tomorrow night.  We'll see.  We're playing it by ear right now. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT