NL DIVISION SERIES: BRAVES v ASTROS
October 12, 2001
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BOBBY COX:  My sister suffered a cerebral hemorrhage.  They operated on her Wednesday.  I was able to be with her that night and yesterday.  She's in stable condition.  She's in intensive care.  I appreciate all the well wishes.  
 
Q.  One of the amazing things is that this team is totally reconstructed.  There's a new bullpen.  Players have new roles.  Is there any trepidation fielding such a different team from the beginning of the year to now? 
 
BOBBY COX:  We've had some problems, but I've never been afraid to try something new.  One constant throughout the year has been our starting pitching and bullpen.  I feel really good about our team.  I feel good about our bullpen.  I feel like we can pitch shutout ball starting from the sixth inning, then the seventh, eighth and ninth.  Nothing against Rocker, but that trade gave us depth:  Remlinger, Ligtenberg, Karsay, Seanez, Reed.  Remlinger was the one who held us together last year and the first part of this year.  We've also been hitting better than people have given us credit for.  
 
Q.  Do you remember when the light bulb went on to make Smoltz a closer, and whose idea was it? 
 
BOBBY COX:  For a long time, the media and baseball people thought that he could be a closer but we were selfish, we wanted to keep him as a starting pitcher.  As you know, he's a free agent, and we're trying to sign him.  We like him as a relief pitcher.  
 
Q.  With your team being so different from the first part of the year, how do you manage to be so successful with all the new people?
 
BOBBY COX:  All the new people we acquired have talent and they fit right in with our ballclub.  Leo does a good job with all the pitchers.  We have a lot of confidence in our overall 25-man roster.  
 
Q.  One guy who doesn't get a lot of notice but has been the source of stability has been B.J. Surhoff. 
 
BOBBY COX:  You're probably right.  He's a grinder.  B.J. is a real grinder.  If we have a day off, B.J.'s here.  He can't get away from the ballpark.  He has to be in his uniform, he has to do his stretch, he has to hit and he has to do a lot of stuff.  It's just him, his make-up.  He's one of your real throwbacks to the original game of baseball really.  He just loves the game, and he also can play the game.  He's one of the guys who holds us together also (inaudible.)  He's not a real power guy. 
 
Q.  Your bullpen's real rested.  Are you worried about them staying sharp?
 
BOBBY COX:  We let Smoltz go the first game two innings.  That would have been his fifth day off if he hadn't pitched that day.  Some of the other guys, you're right, I think they will be sharp because they do a lot of throwing on the side.  It's been a lot of days off (inaudible).  
 
Q.  Brian Jordan said yesterday the players want to close it out as quickly as possible so they get a few days off and can be with their families.  What do you think when you hear that? 
 
BOBBY COX:  Well, it's always good to be with your families.  I've never intended to miss a game managing  - I never have  - unless something really, really drastic happens.  But I intended to be here, period.  And it is good for them.  We talk a lot about families, and I have such a very high priority for me to get the players that their families are very, very important.  They need them.  We're certainly separated a lot during the course of the season and spring training.  We're gone for almost eight months.  So it's tough.  There are a lot of good family guys on this ballclub  - a lot of good people, period.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about the development of Marcus Giles? 
 
BOBBY COX:  Quite honestly, I thought Marcus was ready for the big leagues in spring training.  Veras was good enough physically with his bad knee that he had operated on to start the season.  But in the back of my mind, looking back, I should have probably went with Giles and given Veras a little more time to get in shape.  We broke camp with his knee problem.  Javy Lopez had a broken finger, shouldn't have been playing.  But those are the types of guys they are  - they want to be playing.  But I thought he was ready this spring.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT