NL DIVISION SERIES: BRAVES v CARDINALS
October 3, 2000
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talking about opening on the road instead of at home, how much of a shock was it?

BOBBY COX: It wasn't a shock at all. We wanted to win that ball game. We had a chance
to get home field advantage throughout the entire Playoffs because Randy Johnson going
against the Giants, we thought he might beat them. We would tie with them. Ends up, we had
one more game, as they did, through the season, so we were really trying to win that ball
game, we blow it in the ninth. We have not blown any in a long time. We were a little
frustrated after the game for about five minutes, there is a lot of pluses on the road, a
lot less distractions for sure.

Q. Can you talk about the roster moves that you have made?

BOBBY COX: Yes. We decided to carry two of the younger kids, George Lombard, an
outfielder and Sisco who plays outfield also. We will carry ten pitchers, Kamieniecki will
be the 10th guy. We talked about nine, but we did not have enough guys injured on the
disabled list; Perez, we had Veras, we had two, we can only carry two to replace those
guys, the others guys injured were pitchers.

Q. Maddux and Glavine, was that a coin flip; which one would go one, which one would go
two?

BOBBY COX: It would always be a coin flip. Maddux was set up perfectly. His rotation
day fell perfect, today. Glavine's falls perfect for his second game start. They were
right in rotation from the beginning. We did not want to mess with that at all. Both are
throwing outstanding.

Q. What is the most impressive thing about Glavine? What made him as good as he is, as
good as he has been, for as long as he has been.

BOBBY COX: He has the ability, No. 1, or he could never have done what he did. He won
20 games, five times now. Some of the greatest pitchers in the last five years maybe did
it twice, Tom Seaver, Nolan Ryan, those types of guys. That is some kind of
accomplishment. In order to do that, you have to be good, No. 2, the concentration level
he has got is as good as it gets, just about. He knows how to pitch. He can move the ball
in and out, he has tremendous off-speed pitches, he is a great fielder, and he can hit and
bunt. He always does something to help himself during the course of a ball game. He stays
in great shape, watches his weight, workout programs during the winter are excellent. He
comes to work. He is one of those guys that punches in, when he punches out, he has given
you everything he has.

Q. How concerned are you about Brian Jordan's health?

BOBBY COX: I think Brian is fine. He played with these nagging injuries all season
long. Right now, I thought he swung the bat good yesterday, in batting practice. I have
him hitting behind Galarraga today, I hope it pays off. He is swinging the bat good.

Q. With all the talent you have available, are you underappreciated as a manager?

BOBBY COX: I don't know. I don't know. I have been lucky. We have had a lot of great
ball players in the last 10 years, I have been the one sitting in the saddle riding them
along. We have another good club this year. But I can't answer that. Thanks a lot, Bobby.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT