NL DIVISION SERIES: BRAVES v CARDINALS
October 2, 2000
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Are you aware of what Tony just announced?  (Inaudible.)

BOBBY COX:  No.

Q.  Ankiel tomorrow, Kile Thursday?

BOBBY COX:  Is he going to do that?  That's fine.
 

Q.  What are your thoughts, you have seen Rick Ankiel this season, what do you think?

BOBBY COX:  We like him a lot.  I have not seen him this year, I saw him last year.  I thought he was one of the best young looking pitchers I had seen all year last year.
 

Q.  On your team you have a lot of right-handed batters, is this an advantage to you?  You fare well against left-handed pitching.

BOBBY COX:  We have some high averages against lefties, yes.  This kid has three good pitches.  But we have done well against lefties. 
 

Q.  What happened yesterday, will you bounce back pretty well?

BOBBY COX:  That was a rough day, yesterday.  We had not blown one in a while.  I am glad it was yesterday and not tomorrow.
 

Q.  Home field advantage?

BOBBY COX: Yes, because you are starting the Playoffs.  We wanted
to --  (inaudible.) -- not the biggest thing, naturally, nothing wrong with opening on the road.  Get the extra game at home, the fans, get to see the club, that would have been nice.
 

Q.  Your rotation?

BOBBY COX:  Maddux, Glavine, we will think about, we are thinking about number 3, we have not decided.
 

Q.  Millwood or Ashby?

BOBBY COX:  Yes. 


Q.  Do you consider Mulholland to be the -- (inaudible.)

BOBBY COX:  A lot of their hitters are left-handed, a lot can hit left-handers.  No, we -- I don't think we would do that.
 

Q.  You are going to use three? 

BOBBY COX:  We can use three.  The first guy out of the chute gets the full four days to pitch the fourth game, No.2 starter has to work on three.
 

Q.  And Glavine can do that?

BOBBY COX:  Yes.  He can do it easily.  So can Mad Dog, it would not make a difference.
 

Q.  You guys obviously have been here year in and year out, how much from the players standpoint is that an advantage for you, the fact that your guys have been through this trial so many times?

BOBBY COX:  I don't know if it
is -- we get asked that question every year.  I don't know if it is an advantage or not.  I have seen young guys come up, not have any experience in these things and do extremely well.
 

Q.  Does it put the opposite thing, more pressure on you, because you are supposed to be here?

BOBBY COX:  We started in spring training with the pressure.  It is nothing new.
 

Q.  When Tony has a weapon like Mark McGwire coming off the bench, how does that play into your thinking, in the opposing dugout?

BOBBY COX:  The premiere home run hitter in all of baseball.  Yes, you can use him any inning, you can use him in the first inning, if you really wanted to.  He is a guy that will be sitting there to break up a ball game any time during that game.
 

Q.  (Inaudible.) -- Maybe it has been building with the starting pitching, as you look at the Cardinals last year and this year, is that the one thing that makes them that much better?

BOBBY COX: Absolutely.  That and Edmonds, the addition of Edmonds, I thought it was huge.  Their pitching was injured the last couple of years. They probably could have made a heck of a run at their division, losing Morris and Alan Benes, two great young looking prospects, had to hurt.  You won't win without pitching, I learned that a long time ago, you have to get pitching and then add to it.
 

Q.  How do you guys keep getting into the Playoffs every year? 

BOBBY COX:  You try to turn it on in April and keep it there, turn it up, turn it down, not playing hard, playing hard, I do not quite buy that stuff.  When people say that, I kind of shake my head.  I try to get up for every ball game, not just important, so to speak, games.  You have to be ready to go when it is your turn.
 

Q.  (Inaudible)?

BOBBY COX:  Exactly, we have been doing that for a long time.

Q. Reggie has been a spark throughout the month of September. 

BOBBY COX: Without Reggie, we would not have scored as many runs as we have scored. He has really been red hot, playing great. Picked a good time to do it.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT