MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 11, 2000
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Could you just comment on Jeter's performance? He really got them going, got the hit
off Leiter.

BOBBY COX: Yeah, we've been watching that ever since he came to the Big Leagues. And
somebody in the clubhouse asked me if he was getting better. He was just good when he
first came up. So, you know, that's why he's here; he's an All-Star. There's really three
great shortstops right now, and he's one of them.

Q. Can you tell us how you felt about your own players' performances, the great
performance of Chipper Jones in particular?

BOBBY COX: Yeah. They had really good nights. Chipper's home run. Galarraga's first
at-bat, he lined out and singled in his second at-bat. Andruw knocked in a run, line
drive. Tommy had a good night. They carried themselves well. The whole team played pretty
good. The eighth inning, there's so many ground balls that got over our heads or right in
the holes that blew us out of the game there, but Hoffman didn't throw bad, just kind of
unlucky.

Q. Did you think the game lost a little bit of its luster because of all of its
injuries?

BOBBY COX: Maybe, but I don't think so. These guys are so good that are on the team.
You're filling in with really excellent ball players; but, sure, some of them are
recognized more than others. But I don't think it lost anything.

Q. Did you do anything special to try to get these guys together as a team before
today?

BOBBY COX: No. Just the normal thing. We had a meeting yesterday and told them the
importance of winning, and trying to get everybody in the game at the same time, and stuff
like that. The players, they really want to win. If you sat on either bench, you could
tell. They're highly competitive and nobody wants to be embarrassed, and they're going to
go hard and they did.

Q. You've been around some All-Star Games. How does this one compare with ones in the
past?

BOBBY COX: Well, I'm always excited. I don't know if one's any better than the other
for me. You know, they're all good, and I thought last night was really terrific, the home
run contest -- Sammy Sosa really had a good night for baseball. And the game was really --
I thought we were going to go into extra innings. I think that would have really been a
great inning, tieing it up, going into extra innings. But then the eighth inning, as I
said, they found a few holes and blew us out. But it was a tight ball game for the fans. I
think they were interested in it. 

Q. Did Sammy have leeway to pretty much play as long as he wanted after the performance
he had Monday night?

BOBBY COX: Well, basically any of the vote-getters, if they would tell me they wanted
to play nine innings, I'd let them play nine innings. But they know the importance of
everybody getting in the game, and I think about three at-bats is the most anybody ever
had. So Sammy had those.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT