MLB WORLD SERIES: YANKEES v BRAVES
October 27, 1999
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Just talk about your feelings about losing in four games.
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, it's not very much fun losing four in a row, getting swept. I thought
we played a little better than that. Could have had two of them tonight I thought Smoltzie
matched Clemens pitch-for-pitch the whole ball game. He was on. The one inning, the two
infield hits, Jeter broken bat, and, you know, we just didn't catch the ball good that
inning. But he was really good tonight. Roger was great. We would have liked to have made
it a better contest, that's for sure. You don't want to get into these things and get
swept. You want to at least take it six or seven. You got to tip your hat to -- our hats,
whatever, to the Yankees. Their pitching was excellent. We shook the hitting down a little
bit, as best we could. I thought we did a good job for that except for the one ball game.
They're strong. They got a great bench. It's a ballclub that deserves to be World
Champions again. They're extremely good. 
 
Q. You mentioned that inning, Martinez' ground ball to Klesko, how did you see that?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, there was two that inning, the ball in the hole. Walt got it in his
glove, I don't know exactly what happened, then the one to first base. We walked a guy,
set up a double play. We got the ground balls but we didn't get an out. That's the way it
goes. 
 
Q. What do you think happened?
 
 BOBBY COX: I don't know. I don't know if it was a bad hop or not. From our dugout, you
really can't see the balls very well on the ground. So I really don't know what happened. 
 
Q. Can you compare your thoughts from '96 to tonight?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, I don't know. This was more emotional. I've never been emotional in
any of these things. For some reason, it was after the game. You know. These, you know, we
had a lot of different players this year, they really hung together. We could have easily
folded our tents, the Mets were really a good club. And they could have caught us pretty
easily but we wouldn't let them. And I really -- I admire a lot of the players on this
team for really, really bearing down and, you know, we got this far. We would have all
liked to have done a little better. But, you know, we just didn't play as well as we
should have I guess. 
 
Q. All the talk leading up to the series about the '90s and so forth, the one thing
your guys said was forget about the team of the '90s, they would like to win one more
World Series. How does it feel -- how do they feel? How did they react to not winning
another one?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, I haven't -- you know, we wanted to win it. I don't know how they're
feeling. We've been there, we were talking to each other. You know, I think they think in
their own minds they had a tremendous year for what the ballclub went through and
everything else. We were ready to play and all that. Could have still been playing, a
break here or there. They're disappointed, like I am. But we're proud of what we did to
get here. 
 
Q. The Yankees have won three out of the four years. Where do they rank, at least as
long as you've been in the game?
 
 BOBBY COX: I would say that's pretty darn good because some of the other clubs through
the years would win once, Baltimore and teams like, you know, were really great teams. I
think they only won one time. I think some of the Oakland years when they were really a
great club only won the one time. You know, to win three, you've got to go -- you have to
tip your hats. It's hard. They could have been knocked out the first round like anybody
else. It's so hard to go all the way every year. It's amazing to me. Even with the great
ballclub, things can go wrong and breaks could go against you and things like that, you
know. They just -- Texas just can't get by the Yankees, I guess. I think it ranks way up
there, personally. That's hard to achieve. 
 
Q. I asked Showalter if he knew of anyone that should be manager of the year and he
said you. Do you have any candidates besides Buck that you would pick?
 
 BOBBY COX: Buck would be a good one to start with, I think, in our League. They're all
good. Any of them could be manager of the year. They all try hard. We all do the same job.
Some of us are a little luckier than the other ones. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT