MLB WORLD SERIES: YANKEES v BRAVES
October 27, 1999
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What's your philosophy towards using the starters in relief, especially like tonight
with everything on the line?

BOBBY COX: Well, I think you have to do whatever it takes to win a ball game at this
point, and, you know, if our starters are able to throw an inning, we'll use them in order
to win a ball game. You bet.

Q. You went through this with the Mets coming back from 3-0 deficit, that has been done
in hockey and seven games in basketball. Why is it so difficult to do in baseball?

BOBBY COX: It's never been done before, I guess, and probably going to happen some
time, maybe that's one thing we could look forward to, to doing something that's never
been done. And maybe we'll be the team. That's, you know, one thing we can at least talk
about.

Q. If you don't come back to win this, are these the two games that are going to eat at
you all season?

BOBBY COX: When you're leading in the eighth inning, you like to wrap them up. You
know, Maddux' game, I can remember how the inning started with Brosius getting a ground
ball base hit, then we kicked a bunt play and O'Neill got a chopper, you know, by the
first base side. You know, they earned that. They earned the one last night. Sure, you
hate to lose when you're leading, but you know it's going to happen in these types of
games with the hitting, I think, that the Yankees have. They're very capable of coming
back any time against anybody. Most of the time we'll shut them down, but it does happen.

Q. Just an extension on that question, you got the errors in the eighth inning in Game
1, then the runner caught stealing yesterday and the ball bouncing out of Jordan's glove,
do you have a sense of what might have been? You've been so close in both those games.

BOBBY COX: We got beat on a ball that barely went 315 feet really. That was hard to
take. The home run that Curtis hit to leftfield was stunning. You accept those. But little
popups, the ball was jumping out in that area last night, rightfield. You hate to get beat
on what we think is an easy out, but it's Yankee Stadium and it's a home run. So you can't
cry about that. But we thought that was an out, and the ball came close, I think it hit
Brian on this side of his fingers, I guess they were saying, and probably didn't even feel
it much because he was trying to get up on the wall. So it was a close play. But stealing
third, we were going to steal third all night long if we had a chance with Pettitte. You
can't steal second but you can third. I think I thought Bret would make it easy, really
easy.

Q. Last night, you said that you had the rotation, you would stick to that. But
realistically, in your mind, what is your rotation tonight since you have to run the team?

BOBBY COX: Well, we'll try anything we can to win. Smoltz is going to start the game,
and we'll go from there. I don't know if everybody's going to be available, but most
everybody will be.

Q. Win, lose or draw, whether you win or not, is that going to diminish what your team
has done this year?

BOBBY COX: Well, we're not going to talk about losing. But no team ever wants to get
swept. We're going to do everything we can to win, you know, win one game at a whack here,
and I don't know, you know, that's not for me to say. I, you know, these things can swing
one way or the other, and, you know, I feel like we ought to be 2-1 instead of 0-3 right
now personally. But that's the way it is. I don't know about that, and I really don't
think about that, so, you know, it's not really significant to me.

Q. In the eighth inning, before the eighth inning started when you and Tommy spoke in
the dugout, did either one have to convince the other one that it was the right thing to
do. Did he have to talk you into sending him out or was it an agreement that he had enough
left to go out for the eighth?

BOBBY COX: He was really strong. He was throwing great. He said he was fine. He's ready
to go back. I had Leo go over and talk to him to make sure. Leo said he's fine and he's
throwing great. We all thought he was throwing great including Tommy. He had plenty left.
He had a lot of room. He could have pitched ten innings, probably. Again, he got a
first-pitch strike over to Girardi who takes one once in a while, other times he is a
first-ball hitter. I think he was trying to get a strike on him. Then the popup to right.
But Tommy was strong. There's no second-guessing there in my mind, from Leo and I or
Tommy; he had plenty to go. If those guys are still strong, they're in, period. They're
too good to take out. He could get double plays, ground balls all night long. And, you
know, he was on last night. I thought he was on very good.

Q. How difficult is it for you and your pitcher to come in and start speculating about
a Game 5 when there's no guarantee of anything past Game 4?

BOBBY COX: We're taking them just one game at a time. That's the only way we can do it.
We can't talk our way through it or anything else. We have to win tonight to be able to
play tomorrow. You can't win four all in one night and we're not going to try to do that.
We're going to do our best tonight and take it from there.

Q. After two demoralizing losses, I guess, how would you describe the morale of your
team heading into Game 4?

BOBBY COX: We're fine right now. I mean once you get over the frustration of losing a
game like that last night, once you get to the ballpark, everybody's fine again. Nobody's
down. So, you know, we're a very professional team, we come to win every night. And
nobody's going to be hanging their heads. At least I better not see them. My head is up,
and theirs will be, too. It's tough. When you go back to the hotel. There's a lot of time
to think about that game because we don't leave right away to go back to the hotel. We're
here for an hour, two hours, an hour in there and on the bus with nobody talking, it's not
a lot of fun.

Q. You talked last night about the Yankees' resiliency. Do you feel the Braves have had
a chance to show their resiliency and can you say anything about how this team can come
back?

BOBBY COX: We've always been able to come back to some extent. A lot of the playoffs,
through the years, we've been down a little bit and came right back. Our pitching allows
us to do that. We can bounce as good as anybody else, and, again, we've played two real
good ball games out of the three and felt, you know, we should be leading this thing, but
we're not. We haven't played quite good enough to do that.

Q. Just back to the steal of third, I know that your philosophy was to get -- take
advantage whenever you could. But it's not absolutely necessary to steal third in that
situation when a runner like Lou can score on a single.

BOBBY COX: It's easier to score on a fly ball with one out than if he hits a --

Q. That's a third no matter what?

BOBBY COX: Sure. That was part of our strategy. We were going to steal it every time we
got on. I mean you can't play these games, you know, when you think you can do something,
you got to have the courage to go ahead and do it. It was the right thing to do. I gave
him the opportunity to do it, and, you know, he was out.

Q. Is there something about Smoltz, in your mind, that you feel this situation,
obviously it's a tough one, that he's better suited for it than most for whatever reason
that might be?

BOBBY COX: Honestly I think all four of our starters are suited for it. John has
pitched so many big ball games, he's always come up with a big game. He's able to turn it
up a notch, has been able to. His gun readings -- I don't know about tonight, he's
throwing from a different angle tonight than he used to, too. His readings have always
gone higher. His stuff, you know, got a notch better. And he's a tremendous competitor,
and he'll be giving them everything he can. But he's prepared, believe me.

Q. You knew coming into the series that the stakes were going to be high with the
franchise over the last years. (Inaudible)?

BOBBY COX: I'm going to say this for the last time. I don't really think about that.
Baseball, to me, this job is a year-to-year proposition, and that's it. We're paid to win
and, you know, if we had the best record after the ten years, that's fine. If we don't,
that's fine. I'm looking at what happened the year before or the past year, and that's as
far as I ever get. So something to be proud of, I guess, once you retire to look back and
somebody tagged your team with that phrase of being the Team of the Decade. You know, that
would be nice. But it's honestly something I don't think about. But I think it's good, you
know, for the press to talk about it here at the series and all that. Makes a lot of
sense.

Q. Did you look at film of Clemens' last couple of starts, and, if so, did you see a
difference in his stuff in Boston as opposed to the earlier one in Texas?

BOBBY COX: Well, I didn't see the Texas one, but I saw the Boston game and, you know,
we saw him once this season. And his stuff is always pretty darn good to me. The first
time we saw him he was a little bit off target with his control, is all I saw the
difference. And, you know, Roger if he's 80 percent as good as he used to be, he's still
going to win 18, 19 games. There's only a handful of guys that can do that. So he's still
a great pitcher, outstanding pitcher, and I know he's done what teams have done, you know,
the more you win, the more they expect, the fans. And they expect us in Atlanta to hardly
ever lose a ball game. And when you're in the class of a Roger Clemens, what he's done in
the past, when he does slip just a little bit and give up runs, people are... That's the
way it is. That's the nature of the game. I think Roger's still a real good pitcher.

Q. On a scale of one to ten, how comfortable are you with your relief pitching should
Smoltz falter?

BOBBY COX: Our bullpen has been fine all season long. Remlinger last night gave up the
home run. He's been as important to our club as John Rocker for the season. He is very
much involved in the mix of it, and, you know, we got Mulholland out there, a young guy
McGlinchy, Springer's been throwing good. We're fine, we can do the job out there. I feel
very good with it. John can probably throw one inning tonight.

Q. Being as close as you are to Jimy Williams, did you talk at all to him prior to the
series about any sort of ways or hints at what you have to do to beat this Yankees team
after the Red Sox have just played them in the ALCS?

BOBBY COX: I talked to Jimy during the season about the Yankees when we played
interleague. We shared some ideas from the teams that he plays from the National League
with interleague. I talked to Jimy, you know, after their series but not about the
Yankees. I don't think he's in the mood to talk about it.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT