MLB WORLD SERIES: YANKEES v BRAVES
October 26, 1999
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Coach, can you talk about the resilience of the New York Yankees? You think you have
the game under control, and then they come back. Can you talk about their resilience?

BOBBY COX: They're a good hitting ballclub; they can come back. You know, they have a
tough line-up. Tommy Glavine was throwing great tonight. I know everybody's going to ask
why you left him in, this and that, but Tommy was throwing great. Didn't want to come out
of the game. I asked him if he was tired and he said no. We all thought he was throwing
great. Tommy thought he was throwing great himself, and I thought he was throwing good. We
got beat with a popup to right field, a Yankee home run. They hit three of them here
tonight. The last one was really tagged, but the ball went 315 feet and that's a home run
and that's the way it is here. A home run's a home run. But Tommy pitched great. He only
had, I think, 72 pitches going into that inning. We thought that he would cruise through
it.

Q. To lose a game in this manner this late in the year, what does it do going into
emotionally preparing the team for tomorrow night?

BOBBY COX: That was a big one to lose. We were going to get back in this thing. We
played a first tough inning. We lost them both, could easily be up 2-1 instead of 3-0. We
will give it everything we've got tomorrow night. Now we're down to where we really have
to run the table.

Q. Boone getting thrown out at third on the fourth inning, was he going on his own?

BOBBY COX: We were going to steal third base all night long on Pettitte. That's the one
base you can steal again him. I thought he changed arms. I thought he had the base stolen
easily. He was going to be safe and transferred it somehow. I thought he would be safe
easy. No, no, we're going to play our game when we can. We can't steal second off of him
but we can certainly steal third. We were gone.

Q. As a follow-up to that, would you say that the missed opportunities early on for
your club is as much responsible as anything?

BOBBY COX: Second and third, Hernandez having hit a bullet right at Jeter, that ball
was in the hole. That ball was really tagged and was right at him. That counts as a missed
opportunity, but he really hit the ball hard. And, you know, anywhere else, you hit it
that hard, it was right at him.

Q. How surprised are you when Otis Nixon gets thrown out? 

BOBBY COX: I think that's the first time Rivera ever had a caught stealing, I think.
I'm not sure. It bounced down there, but it bounced down there real good. It took off. He
was definitely out. He throws so hard that even though his delivery is a little bit
deliberate, he throws so hard it gets to the catcher. Girardi, he got rid of the ball,
bounced it and it ended up a great throw.

Q. On the Knoblauch home run Jordan went back on, it seemed to bounce off his glove.
Did it hit the wall?

BOBBY COX: I don't know. I didn't think it was close to the wall. The other one that
Curtis hit out there I thought probably wouldn't go on that one I didn't think was out at
all. I don't know. I asked him how close he got to it. He said like that.

Q. After you and Leo and Tommy talked in the dugout going into the eighth, after
Girardi's single did you think at all then about changing your mind --

BOBBY COX: No. I thought Tommy could get at least a couple outs. He did. To me, the
popup to right field, you could get a home run at 315 feet, that's an out in my book, but
here it's not. He was throwing really good. There was no reason to take him out really. In
fact, if I had taken him out to start the inning, it would have been Remlinger to start.

Q. Is it frustrating to finally get to the starting pitching and the bullpen comes in
and basically shuts you guys down for the rest of the game?

BOBBY COX: We had enough runs. It doesn't bother me. We had enough runs. Hernandez's
ball, that's one ball that didn't get through. But we had enough runs to win the ball
game.

Q. What about Curtis and obviously --

BOBBY COX: I don't know.

Q. You know, wasn't one of the cogs, was it?

BOBBY COX: When you saw him introduced tonight, I know he was a little guy. I was
amazed when he was standing by the other players how short he is and how powerful that he
is, too. I know he can hit home runs. Somebody asked me about who would be the star in the
series; it's always somebody you don't expect. It's not always the big stars that do
things. Tonight he certainly was the star. Up to this point, I suppose Brosius would be
the star, with his hitting, two home runs in the other series, and, you know, a bunch of
hits against us. You never know where it's going to come from.

Q. If you did have one pitcher to go and stop the bleeding, John Smoltz has been a
terrific post-season guy. You have to feel at least consoled by that, right?

BOBBY COX: We still have our rotation intact. It's not impossible. We've swept other
teams before, not in the World Series, but, you know, it would have been nice to win
tonight's ball game. It would have gotten us going real good. Now we're really going to
have to tighten it up and go as hard as we can. There's no other way to explain it. We've
got to get going.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT