MLB WORLD SERIES: YANKEES v BRAVES
October 26, 1999
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Do you have an update on Glavine? Have you talked to him today?
 
 BOBBY COX: Tommy's fine, and he's lost about three or four pounds, I guess. I think he
lost seven at one time and he got most of that back. He should give us seven strong
innings. I look forward to him pitching well. Tommy had lost like seven pounds, I think,
and he's gained back half of that or so. He should be strong enough to go seven good
innings tonight. We're looking forward to him pitching well. 
 
Q. What have you seen in Rivera that bothers you?
 
 BOBBY COX: He would bother anybody. He throws a lot of strikes, and he's got a great
fastball that he can cut, and he challenges a lot of hitters. He is really tough to hit
at, for right-handers or left-handers, I don't think it makes much difference. 
 
Q. Did you see anything in batting practice yesterday that you liked?
 
 BOBBY COX: Yeah, we hit a little extra yesterday. Some of the guys took some extra,
Andruw Jones and Ryan Klesko. They left the batting practice, which is only batting
practice, but they left there pretty confident, and in their minds, you know, they swung
the bat well. Hopefully they can carry that into tonight's game. 
 
Q. Are you aware that the last three teams that lost the first two games at home in the
World Series came back to win the title?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, I know, you know, the Yankees did in '96 and, you know, then they
rolled the table on us four in a row, and, you know, with the amount of good pitching that
all the teams have when they reach the World Series, that's not impossible because each
club does have great pitching. So, hopefully, we can make that four. 
 
Q. What have you said to your team to try to pump them up for this?
 
 BOBBY COX: Nothing, just some pats on the back and stuff like that. We didn't -- we're
not going to have a team meeting or anything tonight. We had one before we started this
thing, you know, and they're professionals, and, you know, they would rather be one and
one right now or 2-0 right now rather than 0-2. Nothing we can do about the past, but we
have to be positive about, you know, each game. We're still going to play them one at a
time. We can't try to win four tonight. We have to play one at a whack. 
 
Q. Given that Millwood threw so few pitches, is he available tonight? 
 
 BOBBY COX: He could be, I suppose. I haven't talked to Kevin about that yet, and, you
know, if push came to shove, we could do anything to win a ball game late if it's extra
innings again, whatever, even use Maddux for a hitter or whatever if we had to. 
 
Q. What did you do to kill all the hours before you came to work today? Did you get
around New York?
 
 BOBBY COX: Yeah. I really got some decent sleep last night. We had dinner and I was in
bed at 12 o'clock and I didn't wake up till 8, which is unusual for me. But I always walk
in New York. I'm always out walking early in the morning, walked for a couple hours and
then came back, shower and sat in the lobby for about 20 minutes and came to the ballpark.
And that was about it. I like to kill the time really either walking or being at the
ballpark. 
 
Q. Anybody say anything to you out on the street?
 
 BOBBY COX: We have been in New York so many times this year that some of the people I'm
starting to recognize. (Laughter.) But, yeah, you'd be surprised how many people, because
we are on TBS and now national network television, with the Yankees and all the playoffs,
people do recognize you and they're very nice. They're all very nice. I haven't had one
person this year in New York say anything bad about the Braves or anything else. 
 
Q. With the patience of the Yankees' hitters, do you or does anyone instruct your
pitchers to go at guys any differently? Is that what impresses you a lot about those
hitters?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, I think they have been very aggressive this series for me. I think
we've had as many walks as they've had. I think they're just -- I think they're very
aggressive, what I've seen. I mean they hit a lot of two-strike pitches. I mean they
showed me a lot with two strikes. They got a lot of hits the other night, I thought, with
two strikes. 
 
Q. Can you just talk about the prospect of facing a five-time Cy Young winner as the
number-four starter in the series?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, he's not your ordinary pitcher, that's for sure. He's getting a little
older and all that, but he still throws great. If his control's on, you're going to be in
for a tough night, no doubt about that. Roger, you know, is just a -- he's a big kid who
still throws great, and he's tough. He's really tough. 
 
Q. Do you think he'll sort of pitch some sort of redemption after what happened to him
in Fenway?
 
 BOBBY COX: I don't have a clue. I can't think, you know, for the other guys on the
other team or even speculate about it. Sure, he would if he had a bad outing, you know,
he'd like to come back with a good one.  
 
Q. You want your team to stay aggressive, obviously. Do you think they've at any point
during the series helped the Yankees out by swinging at some balls they maybe shouldn't
have?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, both teams have probably, but, you know, you have to remember Game 1,
we had them shut out till the eighth inning. So they were probably swinging at a pitch or
two they shouldn't have, as well as our team. But you can't just go up there and take the
bat out of their hands. I thought we did a good job against El Duque the other night. We
took too many pitches, probably, on certain counts that were hitter's counts and we took
them for strikes and we probably should have been swinging. But against certain pitchers,
you're going to swing at pitches out of the strike zone. David Cone is going to make you,
you know, get out of the strike zone. That's the way he pitches. He throws so good you
can't help yourself but do that. 
 
Q. Counting spring training, I imagine you probably played over 200 ball games now. How
much tougher does that extra layer of playoffs make it and the toll it takes night after
night for the whole month of October?
 
 BOBBY COX: As far as the energy level and the adrenaline, there's nothing better than
having a pennant race and then getting into the playoffs. Honestly, you don't have much
sleep. I know they don't. But yet they're not tired. It probably, through the years, you
know, we've been in a lot of, lot of these games and a lot our starters are the same
starters that have been through this, so they're logging an awful lot of innings. But, you
know, we stuck with a five-man rotation almost the entire season, so when we started the
playoffs, our pitching staff was well-rested. They were really strong. I don't think it's
very significant. 
 
Q. Since you've been managing the Braves, do you remember facing a pitching staff as
good as the one the Yankees have now?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, they, you know, they're here for a reason and they've got great
pitching. Overall, they had a lot better pitching, I'm sure, than Boston and Cleveland
probably. The one pitching staff probably is -- ours can match them and maybe Arizona with
Randy and Daal and maybe Anderson in there, Stottlemyre, and also Benes. That's a pretty
good pitching staff. But this is probably the best, you know, ones that I named and ours. 
 
Q. Any line-up changes today?
 
 BOBBY COX: No, we've got our regular line-up, right-handed hitting line-up along with
Jose Hernandez DHing. No surprises. 
 
Q. What did your scouting reports tell you about attacking Pettitte?
 
 BOBBY COX: You have to make him throw strikes on you because he'll go out of the strike
zone on you and you'll start chasing. Jimmy Key was a lot like that when he was here, make
you hit balls out of the strike zone. The one thing about Pettitte, he has such a great
move, it takes away your running game. The hit and run, your runners can't get any type of
break to get an infielder moving out of position, to try to hit a ball through the
opposite side. With his move alone makes it tough. 
 
Q. When Javy Lopez went down and you were without Galarraga, did you, in some time in
July or August, make a search for a big hitter, somewhere -- a Strawberry to come off the
bench?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, John, I know, was looking around. Most of them didn't fit for us, and
the one trade that we did make to add a little punch to the line-up was Jose Hernandez.
And we got Mulholland in that deal, too, which really helped. But we lost a lot of power
with those two guys; there's no doubt about it. And we were still able to score runs
different ways, and Eddie, Eddie Perez is a pretty tough out, too. He doesn't hit the home
runs like Javy, he's not going to hit for the average, but he's going to get a lot of big
hits for you. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT