MLB WORLD SERIES: YANKEES v BRAVES
October 24, 1999
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Excluding tonight's ninth inning, how surprised are you with the team's lack of
offense so far in this series?

BOBBY COX: We didn't hit the ball last night. Really we didn't hit the ball tonight
until the ninth. We didn't really tear up the ball against the Mets either, so... You
know, both those pitchers are tough. You got to figure the game's going to be pretty tight
actually. We didn't have the pitching tonight to make it tight. You know, to keep it
close, we just couldn't do it.

Q. What do you say to your team after the game and do you bring up '96 where you won
both games up there?

BOBBY COX: You know, we played a bad game. I know the Yankees played a real bad game
against Boston. '96, we went up there and beat them. We were in the teens the first two
games of '96 up there, facing good pitching. You know, that's kind of the way we got beat
up tonight. We didn't give up that many, but we, you know, we're a team of good pitching
and timely hitting. And we can't -- we did not get runners on tonight to do anything.

Q. Was it just tight, was the ball just up all night? What was the problem with it? I'm
sorry, Millwood?

BOBBY COX: I don't know. Kevin can ride the ball high and also go downstairs. I think
tonight, honestly, he was kind of in the middle where he shouldn't have been, and it was
all a matter of location. He wasn't down, and he wasn't up high enough. You know, he got
right in that area that's good to hit on.

Q. After the line-up changes today, plan B, what's plan C now?

BOBBY COX: We're facing a left-hander when we go up there. We'll play the other guys.
We're just honestly trying to score some runs right now.

Q. What's Glavine's situation?

BOBBY COX: He threw today, and he felt pretty good. He stuck around for a while, and he
should be ready to pitch Tuesday if not Smoltz's ready to go.

Q. Was it kind of a helpless feeling there in the middle innings? You guys weren't
getting good swings. It seemed like nothing was going well.

BOBBY COX: Well, it's frustrating. I don't know if it's helpless. We kept waiting to
get something going. David kept the ball down really good tonight. He had breaking stuff.
He wasn't overpowering at all. He didn't throw that hard but his ball was sinking like
crazy. He had great movement. I still think the best pitch in baseball is a good moving
fastball, and he had that moving tonight.

Q. Once you got Williams on the double play in the first inning, if you got out of the
inning with just one run, does the game look different?

BOBBY COX: I thought we were going to escape with one run. I said we got the double
play, but then they tacked on two more. Even that wasn't bad. We were three down, got nine
innings, we haven't even hit yet. We might get four or five runs, but one would have
looked a lot better, yeah.

Q. Millwood obviously is throwing more innings this season than he ever has before. Do
you see any signs of fatigue or wear and tear on him?

BOBBY COX: I don't think so. The readings are all the same, everything's the same
except his location, you know, he either rides it up or goes way down. He got that middle
area. And you have to remember the Yankees are excellent hitters. They're going to hit
good pitching once in a while, too. When you make bad pitches, they're going to take
advantage of it and they're going to hit them.

Q. What's the schedule for tomorrow, will they hit?

BOBBY COX: Yeah, we're going to do some hitting tomorrow. We're going to air it out up
there, we're going to hit, you bet. We're going to work with some guys, see what's going
on.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT