MLB WORLD SERIES: YANKEES v BRAVES
October 24, 1999
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 BOBBY COX: We switched the line-up a little bit, see if we couldn't generate a little
offense. They run two real tough righties at us, Hernandez and David tonight, and, you
know, they get left-handers out there. We're just throwing it out there and see if they
won't change things. We didn't hit much last night. What little we did hit got caught.
Ozzie will play tonight, Lockhart will play, Eddie Perez has a little bit of a sore
finger. He exploded a blood vessel in his catching hand last night, was black and blue. He
can play. But Myers will start tonight. 
 
Q. Following on that, Bobby, is the inability to score runs, is it mostly a product of
the pitching you're facing? You also had that intermittent time against the Mets.
 
 BOBBY COX: Neither club scored any runs last night really. You run into good pitching,
you're not going to score no matter who you run out there. Ozzie's been swinging a nice
bat. Lockhart had a good game in New York when he got in. Myers is a hitter with power.
All during the playoffs you're going to face really good pitching. There was some blowouts
with the Yankees in Boston and this and that and some other ones. But basically they're
all tight ball games and one hit here or there could be the difference in a game. So, like
I said, we're just trying this tonight and see. 
 
Q. Have you talked to Tom Glavine? How is he doing?
 
 BOBBY COX: Yeah. Tommy came to the ballpark. He just finished throwing a little bit. As
soon as he showers, he's going to go right back home. He felt pretty good. He thinks he
can start Tuesday. 
 
Q. How much do you think that Millwood is still overshadowed by the big three in the
rotation? How did his year compare to the other guys?
 
 BOBBY COX: I honestly think Kevin moved way up the ladder in some of the media. Way up.
And he was pretty dominating, just about all season long. So I think he's moving on up,
and, you know, he's a good pitcher. But still, you know, the other three guys have all
those Cy Youngs, too, and richly deserved. Kevin's got great stuff. He should be good,
and, you know, he should have a great career. He's a great competitor. You'd want him on
your side in any endeavor you pursued. He would be a winner for you. 
 
Q. Is Rocker going to be able to go tonight? I know he threw a lot of pitches last
night.
 
 BOBBY COX: He had three days off. He could probably go two today if I asked him. And we
have a day off tomorrow, too, so he's fine.  
 
Q. Have any other players came down with the flu -- you talked about being concerned
about it yesterday.
 
 BOBBY COX: No, I don't know of any right now. I think it was kind of isolated with
Tommy's family. I think they all were sick. Tommy was the last one to get it. 
 
Q. We haven't seen the batting order. Could you just tell us the batting order?
 
 BOBBY COX: Yeah. It's Williams and Guillen, Chipper Jones, Jordan, Klesko, Myers,
Andruw Jones. Williams has gotten a few hits off of this guy, not too many guys can say
that to be honest with you. Not too many guys got hits off of Coney. 
 
Q. Can you talk a little bit about Chipper, he had a rough month and had a pretty good
game in Game 6 against the Mets, then the home run last night. Do you see him maybe coming
out of a little bit of a funk at this point?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, I think he's swinging the bat really well. He wasn't given a lot to
hit in some of the ball games, and, you know, one thing about Chipper, he drew a walk last
night in the ninth inning to get on. We eventually had the tieing run at home plate, but
he's not really slumping, so to speak. I think he's dangerous every time he walks up
there. It's nothing that -- he's desperately walking on in the cages or in batting
practice. He's normally, really. 
 
Q. At one point last night you had three guys warming up at once in the bullpen. Could
you just maybe outline what you were thinking?
 
 BOBBY COX: Rocker, for that situation, with no runs in yet, then the other two guys if
they had scored off Maddux, I would have brought them in probably, we just used Rock right
at that time. Sometimes there's a need for that. Maybe we overdo it. We had the third
mound installed because of that. And why not? 
 
Q. Was that new this year?
 
 BOBBY COX: No, we've had it since the park was built. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT