MLB WORLD SERIES: YANKEES v BRAVES
October 23, 1999
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Talk about Glavine a little bit. Has he gone home?
 
 BOBBY COX: No. Tommy called me last night -- in fact, Ned Yost called me, Tommy called
Ned who was at the airport on the cell phone because he didn't have my number. Ned called
me and told me Tommy was sick, you need to call him right away. I talked to Tommy, he told
me he couldn't pitch at all tonight. I said I've got to get a hold of Maddux, he said no,
I've called him and he's ready to go. I didn't have to call Greg. Saw Greg this afternoon,
he's fine, ready to go. It's unfortunate, but, you know, things like this do happen. Tommy
has pitched at times with a bad arm through his career, shoulder, elbow, two broken ribs,
two bad knees, a bad ankle, an infected toe and never missed a start that I can remember.
He's really sick, dehydrated, they've got some fluids in him I guess. He won't be here at
all tonight. I think he'll be able to pitch the first game in New York. We'll give that
one a go. If not, Smoltz will pitch that one. 
 
Q. One guy rarely gets the flu in a clubhouse, then it usually goes through the whole
clubhouse. How worried are you about that?
 
 BOBBY COX: A little concerned actually. Tommy's family has been sick since we were in
New York. His wife had to leave the game in New York. I understand that she was really,
really sick. His children had it, his mother and dad, they're staying there, had it. It
ran through his family. There's nothing we can do about it. You worry about it. I talked
to Dr. Watson, there's absolutely nothing you can do to prevent it except keep Tommy home
for a day or two and hope nobody else gets it. It's the type, I guess, you just can't go
out and perform. You start vomiting and that type of thing. 
 
Q. You talked to Maddux last night also?
 
 BOBBY COX: No. I was going to. I didn't have a lot of numbers up where I was either,
but I told Tommy I've got to call Greg right away. That's when he said I've already talked
to him, he's ready to go; he knows the situation, so... 
 
Q. What was Glavine's mood? How disappointed was he to not be able to come out?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, he was sick. (Laughter.) He wasn't feeling good when I was talking to
him. I mean I'm sure that he feels badly that he can't start for the opening game of a
World Series, but yet he can still get -- if he goes Tuesday, he can still get two ball
games. 
 
Q. Will you be more reluctant to use your starters in relief such as John, for
instance, in light of this?
 
 BOBBY COX: Tonight I might, because I'm not sure, you know, if John pitched an inning
tonight, he'd have to go on two days' rest before he started. That may -- I don't think it
would hurt him, but it might. I don't know. I'd have to be more careful about that. That
would be the only reason. All the starters are ready. 
 
Q. Around this time of year lots of people, especially those with kids, get flu shots.
Is that something you talked about with your team?
 
 BOBBY COX: I don't think. I never had a flu shot in my life. I always get a little bit
of a cold or something in spring training. That's the only time I come down with it. But I
think there's certain strains you just can't help but get. 
 
Q. Did you think about going to a ten-man pitching for this after you heard that Tommy
was sick?
 
 BOBBY COX: Yeah, I called John Schuerholz right away, and told him, you know, if Tommy,
if this thing would carry over to his next start, we'd have to. I talked to the doctors
early this morning, and they felt that he would be fine by, you know, even tomorrow maybe.
But I didn't want to send a pitcher out there tomorrow that, you know, has gone through
what he's gone through for two days. So Tuesday, they more or less assured me he would be
absolutely fine. So, yeah, I thought about it a lot, real quick. 
 
Q. Did you send a team doctor over to see Tom? Is it just his wife taking care of him,
or is there somebody who's called to know what's going on?
 
 BOBBY COX: Dr. Watson was the doctor handling it by phone. He wanted Tommy to go into
the hospital, get some IVs, get some liquids. He didn't do that, to my knowledge. And I'm
not sure if Dr. Watson actually went to his house or not; he may have. 
 
Q. What about Maddux and what's his -- did he throw on the side yesterday, two days
ago, or how is he in terms of being ready to go tonight?
 
 BOBBY COX: He was prepared to pitch tomorrow night. And he did not throw yesterday,
except in the outfield, a little catch. He threw a lot the day before, but he will be
absolutely fine. There's no problem with that. 
 
Q. Is this upsetting to you in any way to have your plans change? I know you said you
couldn't do anything about it, but does this upset you that you had to make this change?
 
 BOBBY COX: No, not a lot. Really. It was surprising, you know, I didn't ever expect
anything like that because we've been healthy the last month or so here, pretty good. But
the good thing is nobody's pitching on short rest, you know, in replace of Tommy or
anything like that. So it doesn't really hurt. 
 
Q. What time did Tom call you last night, and have you noticed any other players in the
locker room affected by it at all?
 
 BOBBY COX: No. I had the trainers come in and talk to me about other players, and so
far nobody's come down with it. Tommy called me about 11:15 last night. 
 
Q. Totally, totally different subject.
 
 BOBBY COX: Good. (Laughter.) 
 
Q. A lot of great games during the league Championship Series for both American League
and National League, almost all on prime time. Late games, games ending later, around
midnight and East Coast kids, either in Atlanta or New York, the whole young generation of
baseball fans having to go to sleep in the third or fourth inning. Should baseball do
anything differently to get some of these games, a weekend game, early afternoon, so a kid
can watch an entire game?
 
 BOBBY COX: I agree with you a lot. It's very true, our games are ending extremely late
and starting late as a team, we're used to playing to either 1 o'clock -- 7:40, 7:05, we
started a lot of games at 4 o'clock. It's very difficult to see at all with the
backgrounds at those times. We never play at those times. And the 8 o'clock starts, you
know, it's fine if -- it doesn't bother us. It's dark. But I agree, the fans, the young
kids, obviously they're going to fall asleep. I myself fell asleep when Boston was
rallying in the eighth inning in Boston against the Yankees. I woke up, they were wrapping
up the ball game, and it's hard to stay up. But I understand the other side of that coin,
too. The television rights to it, they pay a lot of money to broadcast these, and, you
know, huge sums of that money goes to players' salaries, so it's kind of a catch 22 there. 
 
Q. How do you feel about Millwood going tomorrow?
 
 BOBBY COX: He's fine. I talked to him as soon as he came in. It's not a problem with
him. The only problem he had, he was selling two of his tickets to one of the other
players thinking he wasn't pitching tomorrow because of his family members, now he had to
get the two tickets back. That's the only problem he had. 
 
Q. Was he excited about the idea of his start being pushed up, getting his chance to
pitch in the World Series a couple days earlier? Was there any sort of emotion to it?
 
 BOBBY COX: No. Kevin's kind of the same all the time, and, you know, Kevin's the type
of kid, whatever you say, you know, he's all for it. So he's got the right make-up and
attitude for this game. 
 
Q. You mentioned you will have Glavine go Game 3 because you didn't want to bring him
back tomorrow obviously because he's sick. Mostly it's the sickness and illness versus a
lefty in Yankee Stadium, Game 3?
 
 BOBBY COX: Honestly, I just think he'd be a little weak tomorrow after what he's been
through. He's got to get his stamina back a little bit. I'm just hoping he's good for Game
1 in New York, you know. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT