MLB WORLD SERIES: YANKEES v BRAVES
October 23, 1999
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Can you explain your coverage on the bunt play? Was it automatic that Maddux was
going to jump off the mound, go to the right and Hunter was going to come over to the
mound? Was that how it was supposed to work?

BOBBY COX: They're both great fielders. I think the ball was bunted in a great spot.
Even if Hunter hadn't dropped the ball, he still would have made the play.

Q. When Strawberry came up to pinch hit in the eighth, was Rocker ready, and if so, did
you give any thought to going to him then?

BOBBY COX: Rocker could have pitched -- no. Maddux was still throwing good. He threw
good the inning they got all the runs. The only ball hit good was Jeter, that's it.

Q. At that point when Jeter was up, bases loaded, did you debate going to Rocker at
that point and why not?

BOBBY COX: Maddux was still throwing good. Even when I took him out, he was still
throwing good. He wasn't getting a lot of help, that's for sure.

Q. The walk for Strawberry was the biggest play of the game. Would you say that?

BOBBY COX: Yes, it was.

Q. Your analysis of El Duque's performance today?

BOBBY COX: Of who?

Q. El Duque Hernandez.

BOBBY COX: Good. He threw good, I thought.

Q. Can you elaborate a little bit more? Obviously he was more than good.

BOBBY COX: I felt he and Maddux both threw great.

Q. Is Rocker available for tomorrow after all the pitches he threw?

BOBBY COX: Yeah. He's had three innings. He could pitch an inning and a third tomorrow
easily.

Q. What did you think of the 0-2 pitch to Jeter?

BOBBY COX: That one may -- I'm not sure. I think, I don't know. It was probably
outside. But there were a lot of other ones that were extremely, extremely close, a bunch.

Q. Consistency in umpiring is what people strive for. When you get inconsistent toward
the end, is there anything you can do or anything people can do about that?

BOBBY COX: You get beat most of the time is what happens. You know, I made up my mind,
I'm not going to talk about the umpires in this series. But, you know, close, close
pitches will determine the game. One way or the other. We felt Chipper was safe at second,
too. I don't know if he was or not, but he looked safe. It's 1-0 at the time, we get a
base hit, that's 2-0. Huge difference.

Q. Taking it one step further, we know about replay not during the regular season. But
with these games being so important in post-season, would you be an advocate of replay in
the post-season?

BOBBY COX: Not really. I don't know what the other managers think about it, but I --
you know, it's the umpires. It's part of baseball. Missing calls, getting them right,
making errors, hitting home runs, that's all part of the game. Bad hops. It's all part of
the game.

Q. Talk about -- you might have already said -- Maddux's performance?

BOBBY COX: He pitched great. Brosius got three ground balls through our infield
tonight, then we messed up the bunt. You know, we thought we had Strawberry, and we ended
up giving some runs that inning. He gave up one ball, good hit. I thought he was as good
tonight as he's ever been. He had plenty of room to go nine innings tonight.

Q. You mentioned the bunt. Is it your impression that Brian came out too far? Should he
have left that plate?

BOBBY COX: I don't know. Brian is an excellent first baseman. That's probably why --
he's real quick. That's probably why he got fouled up a little bit. We don't generally
miss on that. The bunt was just kind of right in between. He threw it out of his hand.
Still would have got one out.

Q. What about Tommy Glavine tomorrow? Is he feeling good? What's going to happen with
him?

BOBBY COX: Tomorrow, with Tommy?

Q. Yes.

BOBBY COX: I don't know. He's not pitching tomorrow.

Q. How is he feeling?

BOBBY COX: I don't know.

Q. Is he going to be able to pitch this series?

BOBBY COX: He's going to pitch Tuesday if he can. But I haven't heard -- I haven't
asked anybody tonight if they've had an update on him.

Q. Just wondering if the weather -- obviously both teams played in that weather; how
extreme was it out there? Did it contribute to the lack of offense?

BOBBY COX: Well, I honestly think both pitchers were on top of their game tonight.
There was a lot of wind there, and it was chilly and not a good night to hit probably, but
yet I think both pitchers were really throwing the ball well. It was tough, you know, with
those kind of pitches they were making, tough to hit at. That's the first real cold ball
game I think we've played in, ourselves. I think when the Yankees played in Boston it was
cold.

Q. With that said, Brosius' performance today? 

BOBBY COX: Like I said, he got three ground balls to our infield. They weren't really
hit; they were ground ball base hits. They were hit just right.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT