NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 19, 1999
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Bobby, how is John Rocker and when did you hear about his accident?
 
 BOBBY COX: John is 100 percent. Nothing has changed. I had a message from John
Schuerholz, our GM, when I got back yesterday afternoon, and the first message was that he
was involved. I really didn't know what had happened. I called him right away and he said
he's fine; it's nothing bad. Initially, it didn't sound too good; that he was going 140
miles an hour and totaled out his car. I guess. I still don't know. I just saw John. I
still didn't ask him. I asked him how he was. He said 100 percent. I didn't ask him about
the accident. I think it tore off his right front fender. 
 
Q. Was it a New Yorker that was involved?
 
 BOBBY COX: I'm not even sure if -- it was at the toll booth, I thought.  
 
Q. He didn't have the right change?
 
 BOBBY COX: I don't know what happened. 
 
Q. Bobby, was he going faster than his fastball?
 
 BOBBY COX: No -- I don't know. I have no clue. I really -- the only thing I know is it
wasn't very bad. I think it hit his front quarter panel of the car, and he is not even
sore. He's fine. I've been in car wrecks before, and generally, you're so sore you can't
move for a week. But he's absolutely 100 percent. 
 
Q. Bobby, what was your initial reaction when you thought -- when you didn't know all
the details, were you nervous?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, the first message I got was that he was really going fast and totaled
out his car, but he's okay. That still didn't sound too good to me. After being in a
couple of accidents when I was just a kid, there were some people killed in a few cars
that I was involved in. We were going to the Pro Bowl in Los Angeles, and I think there
were like nine people killed in the accident we were involved in. We were almost killed.
We weren't, nobody in our car, but we were sore for a long time and couldn't hardly walk.
But it was -- the first message did say he was fine. He walked away and he's fine. 
 
Q. What kind of thoughts have you had for the two days? I don't think anybody's mind is
so sealed that you don't have negative thoughts. Have you had some of them, too?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, you try to have positive thoughts. We've played two real good
ballgames; so did the Mets, and the breaks went their way for a change, and not ours.
We've been having our share of luck through the whole series. And neither team is really
tearing the cover off the ball. And it's a game of inches. It's frustrating, yes, after
playing so long in that game Sunday, a six-hour game almost. And to go ahead and finally
-- we held them for 14 innings without scoring. They held us in every inning, too. You'd
like to win those type of games. But I don't know. There's always -- I've told writers and
people that cover baseball forever, even during the season when you're trying to lock it
up, when you have a ten-game lead and only 11 or 12 games to go, it's still not locked up,
and you're still nervous about it. It's just the way it is. 
 
Q. Last year you were in a similar situation, kind of the opposite situation; you were
where the way the Mets were, emotionally, coming out of Game 6. Last year, you were still
trying to catch them. This year it's the opposite. Is the tension the same or what's the
feeling that you can gauge from the players emotionally? The situation is slightly
different.
 
 BOBBY COX: I like to play the game and manage the game with all the pressure. Just
because you're behind in a series, I don't think that relieves it. I'd rather be ahead. I
consider it all the same, personally. 
 
Q. You guys left a lot of men on base the previous night. Are you worried about the
guys putting pressure on themselves to make too much happen in an at-bat?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, I think when you get involved in games like we did Sunday, especially,
you're trying to do too much always. It never fails. Guys are trying to win the game in
every at-bat on one swing. And when you do that, you're trying to hit the ball too far,
too hard, rather than relaxing, and you're chasing bad balls. Both teams chased a lot of
bad balls in that game. 
 
Q. Bobby, early in the series, people were writing that you were having a great
managerial series, and now the question after Game 5 people want to know is why you didn't
use Millwood to close it out. Do you find it odd or interesting that a switch could take
place in that short a time? 
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, again, I haven't read a paper, and don't intend to, and I don't listen
to the radio. So I don't really know what people are saying. The only thing I can tell
you, the double-switch in the one game where Olerud took the ball up the middle, Ozzie has
just as good a chance catching it as anybody else. He's still a good shortstop. I would do
that again in a heartbeat. To me, that was the thing to do, period. And not bringing
Millwood in, there's a lot of reasons for that. Our club was not in desperation. There's
no guarantee that he's going to lock it up on a rain-slickened mound. Number three, he
still had a game to pitch. When he came in to relieve against Houston, he wasn't going to
start again. He felt good. He could have pitched easily, but he wasn't feeling his best. I
asked him before the game started, asked him how he felt, and he said he felt good. I
said, "Real good or excellent?" And he said good; so he could have pitched it
easily. The only problem would have been if he had given up a run, he would be out of the
series. He wouldn't have pitched the rest of it. And the mound had a lot to do with it.
Kevin McGlinchy throws strikes; he breezed through the first two hitters in the previous
inning. The mound was tacky. When you have that, mud sticks to your spikes and it becomes
extremely difficult to put the ball where you want. I had made up my mind I wasn't going
to use him. 
 
Q. Bobby, you talked about your hitters chasing a lot of bad pitches the other day.
After the game, they all seemed to be focusing on the fact that he had finally taken the
lead, but then it was given up, without saying it was the pitcher's fault. Nobody seemed
to want to take responsibility for having failed to drive in runs in the previous 12 or 13
innings when you had a lot of men on base. Is that typical of your team, or are you
concerned that nobody was willing to say: "We could have won the game 10 innings
earlier or 6 innings earlier"?
 
 BOBBY COX: No, I think they would, absolutely, if you asked them that. I'm not sure
that was presented to them directly. Absolutely, I think everybody would take
responsibility for knocking in a run here and there, but we did -- I thought Hunter's ball
was out in right center. In a normal day game, that goes out, and that was with the bases
loaded at the time. Andruw almost hit one out himself with the bases loaded. But then they
didn't fall for us. Absolutely, it's a team effort. Our guys are very close. Have been all
season long. I don't think there was any finger-pointing. I didn't hear about it. I felt
bad for McGlinchy and talked to him after the game. I didn't sense that. Again, I don't
know what's printed and what's said. 
 
Q. Bobby, do you think that the LCS has become more exciting, that it creates more
exciting games maybe than the World Series does?
 
 BOBBY COX: Yes, absolutely, always has. 
 
Q. Why do you think that is?
 
 BOBBY COX: Because you have to win to get there. And it just always has. I don't know
what your opinion is in this room, but my opinion, absolutely. 
 
Q. Is that partly because of rivalries?
 
 BOBBY COX: No. It's just the fact you've got to win this to get there. Absolutely, you
want to win the World Series, but you can't win it unless you get there. And these things,
even the first round is really, really tough. The second round even becomes more
increasingly tough. 
 
Q. Is Smoltz available tonight in relief, and also, what did you say to McGlinchy?
 
 BOBBY COX: I haven't talked -- I've seen John. I haven't really talked to him yet. He
may be -- maybe Maddux could go a hitter or so, I'm not sure about that. What I said to
Mac -- he really felt bad. Just to hang in there, and I told him how difficult I thought
it was. And I thought he was as good as anybody else out there at the time to throw a
strike, under those conditions. By the way, the grounds crew did a great job with the
field. I'm not blaming the mound. It was very playable, the mound was playable, and home
plate was playable. But it's hard to throw off a slippery, wet mound where it's sticking
in your shoes. And Mac has a history of always throwing strikes. I told him that. I don't
think it made him feel a lot better. But some conversation is better than none. 
 
Q. Bobby, you were a little concerned about Rocker's comments going into New York. He
seemed to revel in the situation, almost like a WWF-type thing. Is there any concern now
or do you think that's what you've got there, John Rocker, and you've got to live with it?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, the only good thing about those, really, he hasn't said anything about
the opposition at all, the club, itself, or anything like that. And some of the stuff that
has been said to him, I think anybody in this room would confront the person. It's really,
really bad stuff. Nobody in this room, if they had a heart at all, would stand up and take
it. I don't think he would, either. I think he would have some comment about it, and then
back off and lend a deaf ear to what you hear. Some of that stuff is absolutely horrible.
It's bad, really bad. I think every gentleman in here would probably fight the guy if he
came up to your face. I think he'd punch his lights out. 
 
Q. Have you ever felt a little short on options because you've had to carry three
catchers?
 
 BOBBY COX: This is the first year we've carried nine pitchers, I think. And it may have
come into play in Sunday's game, I don't know. We've always carried three. Just the fear
of losing your catchers and not being able to play a ballgame. You could lose a lot of
players and still play, but you can't without catchers. No, I don't feel shorted, no. I
think we can still do -- we've always had Colbrunn, who was a right-handed, pinch-hitter
guy that could always catch. But he was a very valuable hitter, along with that. 
 
Q. Bobby, Melvin Mora for the Mets seems like he's been in the middle of everything;
he's always coming up with big stuff. What are your impressions with him as a player? How
much did you know about him before the series?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, I think they must have done some good scouting or somebody saw
something in him. My record doesn't indicate the style of play he's showing right now. And
going to Japan -- somebody saw him. He looks good. To me, he looks real good. I don't know
what happened in his Minor League career. But I know he was an infielder; he's moved to
the outfield. He looks good out there. He runs good enough. He has a little bit of power.
He didn't show that in the Minor Leagues. He hasn't stolen a lot of bases early in his
career. You like to see those type of stories, like Pratt and Eddie Perez, to really come
on and help the team win. They kind of survive, and all of a sudden, they're pretty good
players. I like those kind of stories. I don't like them to beat us, but I like to see
kids that really stick with the game and struggle and all of a sudden, here they are in
the biggest game of the entire season. They're being able to play in it. 
 
Q. Just going back earlier to understanding why you didn't use Millwood. When it was
apparent that McGlinchy wasn't throwing strikes like he normally does, what about bringing
in Glavine, even to face Ventura? 
 
 BOBBY COX: It wouldn't have worked. 
 
Q. One of the things that Tommy was saying last week was that you're supportive of your
guys almost to a fault. What in your background has made you that way? Was there ever a
manager that you saw or played for that ripped his guys?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, you have reasons to support them. And it's easy to get down in this
game. Nobody is perfect every ballgame. Sometimes a little slap on the back and support
them in the papers and things like that doesn't hurt. They are human. And I've seen
managers, and I've played for managers -- in 40 years, you see a lot -- that I just didn't
want to play for that type of person. I had the pleasure to play in the Major Leagues for
Ralph Houk, and he was as supportive as they come, and a real tough guy. But he knew the
value of communication, I think, when some of the players that normally weren't playing
and things like that. The superstars always take care of themselves; it's the other guys
you have to worry about some. But I liked that style a lot better than ripping them. It's
not that I never -- we have our confrontations with players, but it's never public or
anything like that. I can get on a player, and have, as good as anybody in the world. But
certainly, when we leave, we understand each other and it hasn't been printed and nobody
knows about it. At least most of the cases. 
 
Q. Bobby, since you avoid the papers and you don't listen to the radio, how aware are
you in the middle of a series like this, and after a game like that of what it's doing to
the atmosphere around a city, away from the game?
 
 BOBBY COX: I'm really not aware of it. But the only thing I can tell you is I'm just
completely focused on a game, and that's all. And the outside makes absolutely no
difference. I know a lot of people don't believe I don't read the paper; I don't listen to
the radio. I really don't, and I haven't for a number of years. And I feel good every
single day. (Laughter). It can get to you. It got to some of our players when they first
started having talk radio in this town and some of the things being said about John
Smoltz. I was completely oblivious. I didn't know then. I didn't even know we had a radio
station like that. And most of it was untrue. The guys were saying they were in the
clubhouse talking to them. The guys never were in our clubhouse, ever. Just a lot of
stuff. I just believe it's not a good way to live your life. You have to know what's going
on in the world, and I try to keep up with that some. But I find it personally better for
me. I just feel a lot better. I'm in a lot better mood and upbeat. Even managers need a
pat on the back occasionally. (Laughter). 
 
Q. While you were in New York, were you aware of the talk about the subway series?
 
 BOBBY COX: While in New York? I played in New York, and that's always going to be
there. That doesn't change anything, anyhow. 
 
Q. You talked about how you need to get through this round to get to the World Series.
This situation that you're in, how big a test is this of how good your team really is?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, first of all, we have a good team. We have a very good ballclub. It
would be the same test if we had to go through Houston. That is a tough team. We had to
play like heck to get through them. And the Mets ran right through Arizona, a real good
team. They just weren't on their game at the time. When they got past Randy, that seemed
to really get things going. But that was a good test. And the Mets have always been a good
test. They've got a great team. I don't know, a test is a test. We need to win a ballgame.
They need to win two. 
 
Q. Do you have to win this to prove that you're a very good ballclub, and have been,
for 8, 9 years?
 
 BOBBY COX: Probably so in everybody's opinion. It's going to turn out that way. We feel
good. We're talking a lot of negatives, here. But we feel good about our team tonight. We
feel very good. We expect that we'll play well. 
 
Q. How much do you think your job security depends on advancing to the World Series?
 
 BOBBY COX: I'm at the point in my life that I'm not worried about that. Baseball has
been this way forever. And I know what I'm doing, I feel like. I can live with myself
pretty easily. That's up to management. That's strictly up to them. I'm not ready to hang
them up, I'll tell you that much. There's a lot of jobs out there right now (laughter). 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT