NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 17, 1999
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Bobby, does it just turn into a game of attrition obviously at this point?

BOBBY COX: Yeah, everybody was out of pitching, out of players, basically. And yeah,
both teams were wearing down, and we couldn't throw strikes in the last inning. The mound
was getting tacky and the shoes were getting tacky; it was hard to release the ball. No
excuses. You still have to throw strikes. Both teams played tough. It was an unbelievable
ballgame. Again, both teams were shut down with their hitting.

Q. Bobby, were you going by like the percentages that no team has ever come back from
3-0. And you left McGlinchy in there, the rookie, and you had Millwood available, so if
you didn't get it, you didn't get it?

BOBBY COX: I wasn't going to use Millwood tonight in that stuff. He's a Big Leaguer. He
should be able to throw strikes and get them out. We thought he would.

Q. Bobby, can you talk about the resiliency of the Mets?

BOBBY COX: Any team, you know, you give them a chance to win. Nobody is going to give
up once you've gotten this far, no team is. Everybody should be that way.

Q. Bobby, you're usually pretty placid about these things, but does this one get you
more in the gut than some of the others?

BOBBY COX: We missed way too many opportunities tonight. We should have scored many
more runs. We had a few more chances than they did, and swung at a lot of bad balls
tonight. The pitching was good. They made us swing at bad balls. We made them swing at bad
balls. But the pitching is good. It's not an easy way to lose the ballgame the way we lost
it. But in Kevin's defense, the mound was tough. It was tough to throw strikes off that
mound, and your shoes were stacking up with clay underneath them and it was tough. I don't
care who you would have brought in, they would probably have walked them, too. It was
hard. 

Q. So basically, the 19 guys that you left on base are really kind of the story for
you?

BOBBY COX: Well, when good pitching -- we left a lot on, I know that. Maddux, earlier
in the game when we squeezed with two strikes, that ball was right down the middle. I've
never known Bret -- he's never missed one of those. I don't know what happened. He didn't
either. We would all have been home about three and a half hours ago if we got that down.
But we missed it.

Q. Bobby, in all fairness, if the weather was the same in Turner Field, would the mound
have been as bad?

BOBBY COX: It would have been the same. They did a great job. I'm not blaming the
mound. I'm saying when the mound is tacky, the mud builds up and your shoes stick, it's
very, very difficult to throw the ball. But it was fair for both teams. They did a great
job keeping the field in play. It rained for at least three hours, I think.

Q. Bobby, even though you lost, is there any pleasure being part of that great a game?

BOBBY COX: I don't think so. It is if you win, but we lost, so it's not a lot of fun.
We had our chances.

Q. Your thoughts on Keith Lockhart when he was thrown out at the plate, that whole
play?

BOBBY COX: He was stealing on the play, and he did slow down and he didn't know where
the ball went. There were two outs, so I said he should have kept going, and it was just
enough to get him at home plate. We had to send him there. We played in total rain. I was
surprised the game was played as clean as it was with the walks and errors, and things
like that, because it was wet out there. They made a great -- we had to try that because
the ball is wet, and they made a great play on that.

Q. Bobby, Dunston's at-bat, I think he took like 10 or 12 foul balls, your thought
process during that?

BOBBY COX: I just kept hoping Kevin would throw strikes, and he kept doing that. And
Dunston is a hard guy to walk, number one, because he's a very aggressive hitter, and he
eventually got a base hit. Kevin got the ball down on the ground, and he hit a base hit up
the middle. Kevin threw good; it was difficult for him, though.

Q. Any thoughts on bringing Glavine in?

BOBBY COX: No, with -- no. We could have done a lot of things differently, but I didn't
want to do it. Just the weather and the one-run lead just wasn't worth bringing in
Millwood and moving the rotation around. I'd rather be given the opportunity of being on
our own field with a good mound.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT