NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 17, 1999
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Can Rocker pitch today? As much as you've used him, can he come back today?
 
 BOBBY COX: Yeah, I talked to him this morning. He's fine. He's not going to lose much,
that's for sure. 
 
Q. Bobby, we asked you about Chipper yesterday and you said you thought he was okay.
Now he's had another not very good offensive game. Is he still okay? I think he's 1 for
10?
 
 BOBBY COX: He had one good change-up to second base that he hit good. This time of
year, you're facing really good pitching every night, so they're going to shut you down
once in a while. I don't think there's anything mechanically wrong or anything like that.
He's having pretty good swings. He's got to be patient and get his pitch like we always
talk about. It's tough. It's good pitching. I feel good with him in there. 
 
Q. Bobby, that double-steal was a big factor, how did that happen defensively with you?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, we did it the night before. We were covering second, really, trying to
get Mora at second, and the pitch was too slow and too low to attempt a throw that would
go into centerfield. You expect that they're going to do that. It wasn't a surprise or
anything like that. It happens, and we couldn't stop it. 
 
Q. What about the pitching on both sides in this series? Can you remember the last time
both teams were having so much trouble getting hits?
 
 BOBBY COX: Through the years, a few games where the pitchers matched up
pitch-for-pitch, but this series has been that way every ballgame. The games have been so
tight, and I think the winning run is either at the plate or on deck, it seems like, in
the 9th inning. That shows you how well they have pitched and we have pitched. They have
been good and so have we. We're really fortunate, I guess, to be 3-1 right now. 
 
Q. Could you predict that in any way going in? Did you think it would like that?
 
 BOBBY COX: You never know. But if I had to predict one way or the other, I would
predict they were going to be tight ballgames and low scoring. 
 
Q. Were you surprised the way Chipper has been batting? Do you know what he's
struggling with?
 
 BOBBY COX: The only thing I can tell you, he's a real good hitter, and real good
hitters have a way of coming out of things. I don't really consider him to be in any type
of slump right now. I consider the opposing pitching is getting him out. Maybe he needs to
make adjustments there somehow. But we trust him a lot with that bat in his hands. And
maybe he'll loom real important today. 
 
Q. If there's a Game 6, do you know who you'd start?
 
 BOBBY COX: Millwood. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT