NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 16, 1999
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Bobby, can you talk a little bit about what Remlinger did last night and how
important that was?

BOBBY COX: Rem has been doing that type of job all season long, coming in and just
dominating for an inning or two. It's one of the reasons Mr. Schuerholz gave him a
two-year contract here recently. He's done such a great job. He has really been the set-up
guy for John Rocker all season long. He's very, very tough on right-handed hitters.

Q. Bobby, where do you weigh in on this discussion on the team of the 90's?

BOBBY COX: You know, I really don't weigh in anywhere on it. The only time I have ever
discussed it is with the questions in the interview rooms here, and most recently in
Atlanta and Houston during the divisional series. I don't really think much about that. I
think this organization has done a tremendous job in the 90's. I don't think we're done
yet, either. I think we can keep going for a while.

Q. Could you talk about the effect that Gerald has had since you put him in the
lead-off spot?

BOBBY COX: Well, that's another question that's been asked a lot lately, too. And it's
a good question because he's been extremely important. Once he was in the line-up
full-time, he really added something to our ballclub. He added power, actually. Gerald can
hit the ball a long ways. He's hit like he can since he's gotten in the line-up on a
regular basis. He can make things happen on the bases like he did last night. Sometimes
we're not always right in our decisions on running the bases, but we're a very aggressive
base-running team, and Gerald is a big part of that. He has really been the spark that got
us going for a while.

Q. What precipitated the decision to give him as much time as you've given him and
moving him into a lead-off spot?

BOBBY COX: I think we had sent Simon down, because of a roster problem, or Gerald had
the opportunity to play more than just against left-handers. And all of a sudden, in a
week's
period of time or so, he was getting base hits against everybody. And we just stayed
with it. It's a guy that was given an opportunity and took it and ran with it.

Q. When people try to torture you with the fact you've only won one World Series, does
it bother you that it's brought up in the context that it's almost like you've won none?

BOBBY COX: There's always something to pick on. No matter how good your team is,
somebody is going to pick on some part of it, the bullpen or something. That's the part
they pick on us, I guess. We have been to a lot of World Series. We've played great
baseball in almost every World Series. Probably didn't play as good in the one that we
won. We played better in some of the other ones and we got beat. It's a game of breaks
when you get down to a four-game win series, must-win series. We've played well. We're
proud of what we've done. They always ask that, though. It is irritating, to be honest
with you. (Laughter).

Q. As you look back, when things went wrong, it's more than the bullpen. Just the
breaks, whatever went wrong in whatever year, was it more than the other team just having
a better bullpen?

BOBBY COX: No, I don't think the bullpen -- I was just giving you an example of picking
on something. When they pick on the Atlanta organization they'll pick on: "Oh, you
only won one World Championship." Generally, it's the bullpen they'll seek out
because that's the one that is most in the eye when the game is lost. But we've had good
bullpens forever. Nobody has ever talked about them. I think we've always had a pretty
good bullpen, but no-name bullpens for the most part, and people that nobody recognized
out there.

Q. Bobby, do you see some similarities with this series and the series against the Reds
back in '95 in the LCS?

BOBBY COX: Well, I know what you're getting at. We swept them in four, and we haven't
done that yet. I don't know. We pitched awfully good against the Reds that series, and
we're pitching awfully good now. I guess if we can sweep them in four, there would be a
lot of similarities, but really we're taking it game-by-game still.

Q. Bobby, is it encouraging at all to you to see Chipper obviously not perform as well
as he had during the season and still be up 3-0, knowing that other guys are picking up
the slack?

BOBBY COX: Well, he's doing just fine, number one. He hit a ball real hard last night
to left field. You've got to give the other team some credit, too. They have good
pitching, also. Hitters aren't going to dominate good pitching, as much as the pitching is
going to dominate them. He's getting pitched to very tough, too. As long as we're winning,
yeah, I'm happy if he's getting no hits; that somebody else in our line-up is picking up
the slack, and that's what happens sometimes. Mark Lempke did it one year, led the team in
hitting in a Championship Series. It can come from anybody.

Q. Bobby, given all the injuries that you guys had at different points in time this
year, has this been any more of a challenge for you as a manager this year than other
seasons in this decade?

BOBBY COX: Well, I guess it is, but I don't know that I ever looked at it as more of a
challenge. It was a little more worrisome when our guys started going down. We had some
guys to plug in there all the time; so it wasn't as bad as we make it out to be at times,
I don't think. We had some good ballplayers on the bench that could do a job. The only
injury we really addressed all season was Galarraga's injury when we went to Spring
Training with the team. That was a different type of problem than just a physical injury.
And I thought then we could plug up first base. We could play good enough there to play
good ballgames.

Q. When a team is down 3-0, is it tougher to close them out there, or psychologically,
do they get down, especially if you get a couple of runs early?

BOBBY COX: I don't look at the past three games. I look at the one game going on
tonight, that's it. We'll go out and try like we have been every night, trying to win a
ballgame. It's difficult to win any game this late in the season, but we would love to get
up two runs early, just like the Red Sox did on Clemens a minute ago.

Q. With Millwood stepping up to another level this year, do you, in essence, consider
that you have four No. 1 pitchers now?

BOBBY COX: Yeah, I think you're right on target there. You could rate him in there on
this year's performance, you bet. He's won 35 now or so. He's pretty much the dominating
guy in this League right now.

Q. Can you ever recall any team, yours or anybody else's, that you would consider
having four No. 1's?

BOBBY COX: I don't know. I don't sit around thinking about those things. I'm sure there
were, with Baltimore's staffs years ago. The Yankees always had great staffs. And the
Dodgers, Koufax and Drysdale, Osteen, those guys were Hall of Famers. But our staff is
good and solid, and for the most part, they've really been healthy this season.

Q. Bobby, you've been here enough times in the 90's, of course, with this team. Is
there an area on this team the strongest you've ever had?

BOBBY COX: I don't think so. I don't know.

Q. Relief pitching, maybe?

BOBBY COX: We've had a good bullpen for a number of years here. And Rocker has been
sensational. But Alejandro Pena was one of the top guys we ever had, I thought. He was
almost perfect. And Wohlers came along. We've had mix and matches and stuff like that.

Q. But there's no way you see this team better in any area?

BOBBY COX: I don't know. Pretty close.

Q. Bobby, is there any explanation why a team matches up against another team so well?

BOBBY COX: I don't know. We've won a lot of games against the Mets this year. But most
of the games have been real tight, could have gone either way. They hit-and-ran last
night, and we were right in the right spot for some reason. And five feet over, there's
runners at first and third with no outs, and instead, there's a doubleplay. I think we've
maybe outlucked them in a lot of areas. 

Q. When you were down 3-0 last year in San Diego, was there anything you said or did
motivationally?

BOBBY COX: I think we had a meeting when we were down two in San Diego. St. Louis we
had to win, I think three in a row, too, and we did. So, yeah you talk about it, because
it's possible.

Q. Just to remind them that it's possible?

BOBBY COX: Yeah. You're not saying good-bye. You're trying to win a game, here.

Q. Did you have a conversation with Rocker?

BOBBY COX: Yeah, I did. I met with him last night before the game, but apparently
didn't do a lot of good, because after the game -- I said we're going to meet again this
afternoon. As soon as I leave here, we're going again.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT