NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 16, 1999
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Bobby, were you worried they might try a double-steal there?
 
 BOBBY COX: I knew they were going to double-steal there. That was an automatic. It was
a curveball down and away, and we couldn't get rid of the ball. We had a plan where to
throw it. It was such a slow pitch. 
 
Q. Did Rocker even check the runners?
 
 BOBBY COX: I think he was intent on getting the hitter out. 
 
Q. Bobby, your thinking on your whole pitching sequence there, taking out Smoltz when
you did?
 
 BOBBY COX: To stop the running game, Remlinger -- generally he's almost impossible to
run on. Cedeno is the best there is in the National League, I think. We tried to stop him,
and he got a strikeout on Agbayani and Cedeno stole the base. He did a good job. The fact
of the matter was Rock made some good pitches, and the ball hit in front of home plate
pretty good and skidded. We had him play against Rocker; John Olerud hits a lot of balls
the opposite way on the infield. It's hard to defend him. But he hit it right up the
middle and he made contact, and that's what he was up there for. We made the pitches and
he got a ball through. 
 
Q. Bobby, when you consider how tough it is to sweep somebody, is this a disappointment
you just have to take, just a small bump in the road?
 
 BOBBY COX: We really wanted to win that game tonight. We woke up the bats there late
with back-to-back home runs, but other than that, neither team did much hitting tonight.
It was two outstanding pitchers going again tonight. Reed was absolutely great, and so was
Smoltz. It was a remarkable, good game, again. It's amazing how good the pitching has been
on both sides, really. 
 
Q. How hard is it to sweep a team, is it really close to impossible a lot of times?
 
 BOBBY COX: You get long odds. You get long odds on a sweep. It's hard. But we were four
outs away from doing it. 
 
Q. Did Weiss get that ball up the middle? 
 
 BOBBY COX: I don't think any of our shortstops catch that ball; we're shaded too much
the other way. All of our shortstops basically -- Weiss and Guillen -- Hernandez is more
of a utility guy, but Weiss and Guillen, the range is the same. Depends on where you play
them to get any ball. No, I think it ends up the same way. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT