NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 15, 1999
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Bobby, can you talk about why John Smoltz is such a big-game pitcher in the
postseason, why he's the leading winner in the postseason?
 
 BOBBY COX: I think John, even listening to him a little bit, he turns it up a notch.
He's able to do that. Even though he's turning it up a notch, his normal stuff, speed and
velocity on the ball, is still plenty good. He's a great competitor, and he goes as hard
as anybody I've ever seen. John's a great pitcher. He says he turns it up a notch. I'm not
so sure. He's good all the time. He's a great pitcher. 
 
Q. You've won all these times in a row in an era when teams seldom repeat anywhere in
any sport. How does it happen?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, we had a fairly young ballclub when we first started winning in '91.
There was a pretty good foundation there of Lopez and Klesko, Smoltz, Tommy Glavine, Steve
Avery was coming in at 19 years old, pitching big games. There were some real smart deals
by John Schuerholz and Stan Kasten and great ownership with Ted, and we were able to keep
all those guys. None of them were making a lot of money at the time; so it made it easier
on the payroll. But we signed Greg Maddux, which didn't hurt to keep the tradition of
winning going. 
 
Q. Why didn't your players get bored by the whole thing and break out for their own
interests instead of the team's interests?
 
 BOBBY COX: Some of them I know have turned down a lot more money to play somewhere else
just to stay in Atlanta. The old Fulton County Stadium was great, and, of course, our new
ballpark is about as good as it gets. Atlanta is a great place to live, really. And most
of the guys make their permanent homes there. Maddux still lives in Las Vegas, but owns a
home in Atlanta, and is there an awful lot. But most of them, once they come there, they
stay and live there. There's some great areas. I think that has a lot to do with it. 
 
Q. What about the fans, what's going on down there? We've seen this the last two years
in the postseason, not filling up the ballpark, what's your theory?
 
 BOBBY COX: I think some of it has to do not knowing who we're playing, what time we're
playing. And I think that has a lot to do with the working crowd there. Not as big as New
York, of course. And it's expensive. And I think really there's only two or three thousand
seats that aren't filled. The right field upper deck is the last to go. We sell out during
the season a lot of times. I think those combinations -- it seems like we're always
playing at 4 o'clock, that's an odd time to play a ballgame. 
 
Q. Were you surprised Hargrove was fired so quickly after the playoff loss?
 
 BOBBY COX: I had no inkling that he was fired. 
 
Q. Are you surprised now?
 
 BOBBY COX: Yes. (Laughter). I had no clue. That's really a shocker. He's done a super
job there. That's too bad. To me, he's a real good manager. There must have been
underlying problems with the front office. That's the only thing I can think of. Everybody
likes to win. I'm flabbergasted, too, to be honest with you. 
 
Q. Were you irritated in any way about Rocker's comments that may ignite the fans even
more than they would be?
 
 BOBBY COX: You know, I have not read the papers. And I really am trying to stay away
from them, even laying around to read the front page. Just from other players, I've heard
some things. Yeah, it irritates me. I don't like it. I don't condone it. He was roughed up
by the fans, I think, our first series here out in the outfield. And he's the type of guy
that's going to give it right back to him. He's got to work on that. He's a great pitcher,
a great competitor, but he needs to work on his player/fan relationships (laughter). 
 
Q. As a follow-up, have you talked to him about it and said: "Please don't do that
again"?
 
 BOBBY COX: I tell all our guys to watch what they say; that it's still the game of
baseball; it's not a game of words. So I haven't talked to him today about it, but I
probably will. 
 
Q. Do you think any of that has any affect at all on the game?
 
 BOBBY COX: I don't think so, at all. He certainly is not going to scare you. They can
yell all they want and curse him all they want. If he's on, he's on, but if he's off, he's
off. If he has a bad game, sometimes it's not going to be because somebody yelled at him.
I think he gets locked in and zoned in, and he gets oblivious, kind of like Tiger Woods
putting on the 18th; they're locked in. I think John Smoltz is the pitcher that he is in
the postseason because of that; he gets locked in. 
 
Q. Kind of a follow-up, sort of Hargrove question. The Manager of the Year Award is
usually given to somebody who is supposed to be 4th and ends up 2nd, and wins the
division. You've won year after year. Are you surprised that you haven't won more than you
have, putting modesty aside?
 
 BOBBY COX: No, not really, because it's sort of exactly the way you described it.
Somebody who generally wins it, they're not picked in any of the poles to finish very
high, and they do. It's something that's never bothered me, and I've never thought about
it at all. It's a great honor and I've had it twice, in the American League and National
League. It's a great honor, and I like getting those, but certainly something I don't
think about. 
 
Q. As a follow-up, what do you think about the fact that a lot of the press lately has
been talking about how you've outfoxed Bobby in your managing decisions in the series, and
Buck, too, for that matter?
 
 BOBBY COX: I don't think I've outfoxed anybody. Both of us are going to make moves, and
some of them are going to work and some of them don't. And. I don't think any manager has
ever actually been responsible for being the World Champion. You've got to have the
players. And you've got to keep them motivated and moving and headed in the right
direction. Basically, that's what we do. It is hard to keep a team pumped up year after
year after year, going after the same thing. And we've been able to do that. I try to help
in that direction, but the moves are moves. And sometimes they work. If they didn't work
for us, I would have been the dumb guy. Fortunately, they did work. 
 
Q. Did you get a chance to watch the game last night at Yankee Stadium? What are your
impressions on what it is, two consecutive nights to have LCS games in one city?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, this is the only city that it's possible, I guess. San Francisco and
Oakland would be considered the same, I don't know. New York is a wonderful, wonderful
place for me. I never liked coming to New York. Years ago, I played here, enjoyed it a
little bit, then I started disliking it. Now, I've really grown to really like New York.
Because I've gotten out, not just hotel to ballpark and back, I've got out. Been to
Greenwich Village and Soho, walking around, meeting people. It's one of the safest cities
walking around, any time in the morning. It's wonderful they can support two teams. And
it's terrific, because both stadiums are filled. Those have been two classic games, with
the Red Sox and the Yankees. That's great baseball. 
 
Q. What does it say for Chipper and Rocker?
 
 BOBBY COX: I don't know about that one. (Laughter). 
 
Q. What did you expect from Perez when he came in the line-up offensively?
 
 BOBBY COX: Eddie is a guy that gave us good offense last year. Eddie always catches.
The one good thing about playing with the Braves is we give our catcher one day off every
five days. And I think it's kept Javy really strong. It didn't have anything to do with
his knee problem; that thing just busted. But it's kept Eddie in great playing shape, and
with his hitting eye and actually catching and throwing. You can sit too long and rust up
a lot. And maybe he gets to catch every other Sunday, a day game following a night game.
But I had made up my mind after the divisional series, I wouldn't pinch-hit for Eddie
probably, because he's swinging so good. And I might, but right now, I wouldn't. 
 
Q. Do you think that wear and tear contributed to Mike Piazza's problems?
 
 BOBBY COX: I think they catch quite a bit here. Pratt is a great back-up like Eddie. If
you consider them back-up -- I consider them front-line guys, really. Both of them bounced
around and finally landed with a team where they could show their stuff. Mike is a
terrific guy, and to be able to put up the numbers he's put up in the catching position,
it's something. It's mind-boggling, because he does play with sore fingers, sore knees and
shoulders, but an outfielder can stand around all the game and maybe chase down a couple
of balls. There's a huge difference there. 
 
Q. Mike Hargrove probably looked out at his pitching in October and wished that he had
had a team like yours. Do you ever get to October and look at your staff and say:
"This is a blessing to have these guys year after year"?
 
 BOBBY COX: Of course. And the only reason we've been here so many times is because
we've been able to keep our starting pitching together, and fairly healthy. They had a lot
of fuel left this year. Didn't have to push them real, real hard. They're always
volunteering to pitch on three days' rest during the course of a season and things like
that. We've kept them pretty strong this year. But it always boils down to if you're going
to win consistently -- it's like the Mets. The Mets have good pitching. And it's
unfortunate they lost three young guys, Pulsipher, Isringhausen and Wilson. It's still the
name of the game. 
 
Q. What do you think of what Jimy Williams has done, did you see any difference that
made you think he was going to be a better manager?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, the Boston writers called me after they had signed Jimmy. He had a
rough press conference. I think he was asked some weird questions. And I told them I
thought they were the luckiest team in baseball to get Jimy Williams, really fortunate.
He's nothing but baseball. He's a good guy. He can teach baseball. He knows what's going
on. He has a great personality. And I just knew he would do -- he was absolutely the best
candidate out there, there's no doubt in my mind. And I don't see him much different. He
did a great job in Toronto. Why did Hargrove get fired? Tell me that one. I don't know why
Jimy got let go in Toronto. 
 
Q. Can the atmosphere here actually work to your advantage, because it gets everybody
fired up, even though the fans are obviously in favor of the Mets, but are you guys fired
up by all the excitement?
 
 BOBBY COX: I think it's good for both sides to have a little -- applauding and cheering
and jeering. I can remember going into Cleveland years ago in the old ballpark where you'd
have to have the team meetings just to get through the ballgame and make sure you hustle,
because there was nobody in there. So it's always better to play, even though they're
pulling against you, before a big crowd. 
 
Q. Bobby, is it too early for you to think about the Yankees?
 
 BOBBY COX: I watch them on TV and I was watching the Red Sox on TV, and you make mental
notes while reviewing. But, yes, it's way too early. We're 2-0, and we know as well as
anybody that could evaporate fast, and it's a day-to-day thing. It's not like the Mets
have to win four in a row or something. They still have room not to do that, but we have
to play them one at a time and take it that way. 
 
Q. How do you evaluate the Yankees in comparison to the team that beat you in the World
Series in '96?
 
 BOBBY COX: I think they might be better. 
 
Q. Bobby, because of his personality and the fact he's outspoken and a real character,
do you think if at some point in his career Rocker were to pitch for one of the New York
teams he would be one of the more popular guys?
 
 BOBBY COX: I think he would be very popular on any ballclub. But I'm still going to
work on his relations with people and fans. We've done that all season. And I really don't
condone the words in the papers and things like that. He really does have a problem with
fans when they're yelling at him up close. 
 
Q. Is it good for the game, having cheering and jeering?
 
 BOBBY COX: As long as the language remains good. I don't think you should be shouting
obscenities. I do that occasionally, get too loud with umpires and in the dugout, and I'm
not very proud of that. I know there's some bantering going back and forth, and the
language is not real good. But I don't want any of our players to act like that. It's
something that we work on, we try, and it will be resolved next year. If I could apologize
to their fans, I would. I'm not supporting that type of behavior, no. There's nothing
wrong with it, to see him run in and that type of thing and jump up and down. Eckersley
and those guys, after they got the last out to give you that (indicating), but everybody
is doing that nowadays, so you overlook it.  
 
Q. Bobby, are you extra concerned about the Mets, given what they did to get to the
postseason? Would you have been as concerned if you hadn't seen them come back?
 
 BOBBY COX: Any team can come back. And they were starting to bleed there when we left
town. They knew exactly what they had to do, and they swept Pittsburgh, and Cincinnati let
a game get away 3-1. But they did their job. Their destiny wasn't in their control. They
could only do what was possible, and that's win three in a row. Anybody is capable of
doing that. 
 
Q. If you win tonight, how do you prevent the team from looking ahead at the next
round?
 
 BOBBY COX: Believe me, they won't be looking ahead, no. They'll be looking at
Saturday's game. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT