ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 6, 2014
Yashira Delgado
Natasha Howard
Sue Semrau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Florida State ‑ 72 (OT)
  Miami ‑ 67 
  
COACH SUE SEMRAU:   That's always a great rivalry.   It's always a great game when we play Miami.   And credit Miami, I thought they did a great job of controlling a lot of things early.   The main thing that we talked about was Miami had a 51 to 36 advantage over us on the boards in our last game.   And we hammered home how important rebounding was going to be, and we held them to 31 rebounds.   And I think that was the difference in the basketball game.  
I think these two being warriors that they were.   Two seniors who didn't want to have their career in the ACC end early.   They scored 50 of our 72 points.   That's pretty incredible.   And for Tasha to have 30 and 16 against a great basketball team just shows what kind of a warrior she is.   And I think both of them played ‑‑ both of them 44 and 43 minutes.   And that's warriors.   
So I'm extremely proud, extremely proud of our young team for coming in.   We had three people that have ever played in this tournament before that returned.   I'm very proud to be able to advance.   
   
 Q.   Talk us through that 3.   And how big was that kind of open the lead there in overtime.   
YASHIRA "CHEETAH" DELGADO:   We had drew a play up to run.   And it didn't go through.   The clock was running down and the ball ended up in my hands.   I just shot it.   I didn't think about it.   We were trying to tell our team, We've got to get back, there was too much time left to give them a chance.   
   
 Q.   Coach, I looked across the way with 3.3 seconds and that foul shot went in and there was a little bit of an exhale from you.   I'm sure it never gets old against your biggest rival.   It must have been a good feeling when that happened.   
COACH SUE SEMRAU:   Unbelievable.   And to be in that situation ‑‑ and that's one thing that we've really grown as a team is at the line.   And to be in that situation, we have had a lot of pressure on us for a very long time.   Since our loss to Wake Forest I think we felt a lot of pressure.   And to be able to handle it like we did today, free throw line at the end of the game, that was big for us.   
   
 Q.   Tasha, another 30‑point game.   You had quite a few of these here in the last week.   Can you just kind of take us through the roll you've been on.   Was this your favorite 30‑point game against your biggest rival?   
NATASHA HOWARD:   I really don't know.   Like every game that I play is always fun.   Scoring that many points, but I couldn't do it without my teammates and the good coaches I have on the sideline.   I just come in and play my heart out and play for my teammates.   
   
 Q.   Cheetah, you win the best two out of three to get the most important game.   What made the team so evenly matched this year?   
YASHIRA "CHEETAH" DELGADO:   We're both great teams.   Playing against Miami is always a rivalry game.   We had good match‑ups and so did they.   It comes down to the end, like it did in overtime, who wants it more, and I feel like we played a lot more towards the end.   It's always going to be a good game with them.   
COACH SUE SEMRAU:   It doesn't matter who is on either team, it's always going to be a great game.   Katie has done an amazing job with her team, as well.   She's lost some pretty good ones in the past, players.   And she's done a good job this year, extremely balanced, and that's hard to guard.   
   
 Q.   For all three of you.   Emotional win over your rival in overtime.   You've got a huge challenge tomorrow.   Is that going to be tough to make that transition from winning today and having to face another game tomorrow?   
COACH SUE SEMRAU:   No, that's what this tournament is all about.   We knew that.   It's not like we win and we get another week to prepare.   We're excited about that.   And we'll enjoy this through dinner and then we'll get busy.   
   
 Q.   Coach, since the beginning of conference play, your team's kind of had a journey up and down.   But coming into tournament play you always seem to really get it there.   How do you prepare your players?   It seems that they respond each time around this time of year.   
COACH SUE SEMRAU:   Yeah, I think we've got to trust the process.   You can't as a coach get too up or too down on what's happening.   And with a young team, I'm telling you, I mean, we have pulled our hair out.   These guys have pulled their hair out.   We have conversations all the time.   They're trying to teach as well as trying to play.   
It's been great for all of us.   I think we've grown as leaders in this time.   And for them to stay as steady as they've stayed I think it's, again, just trusting that process.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT