QATAR TOTAL OPEN
March 2, 2021
Ons Jabeur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  O. JABEUR/A. Blinkova
 6-2, 6-2
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. You have had good success against Anna Blinkova.  Why do you think that is?
 ONS JABEUR:   I mean, she plays really good, especially like here in Doha.  She has a pretty good record.  I was hearing that while warming up on court (smiling).
 I mean, yeah, I don't really count the hard lockdown match, because it was tough for both, so it wasn't like really a reference for both of us.
 But, yeah, I like playing her.  I feel like I can really, like, my game could really, like, bother her a lot.
 Honestly today the dropshots were really, really good, and that did help me to kind of mislead her on the court and not knowing what I was going to do, either slice or dropshot.  So it was I think the key today.
 Q. Speaking of that, I noticed watching match point you broke out a really surprising dropshot when it looked like you could have hit an overhead smash there.  It seemed it really caught Anna offguard.
 ONS JABEUR:   Not surprising coming from me, though, huh?
 Q. I want to find out, how do you find a good time to hit a dropshot like that or to surprise your opponent with a slice?
 ONS JABEUR:   Honestly, I couldn't do an overhead.  It was tough because of the wind.  My coach probably would have wanted for me to hit a forehand (smiling).
 Yeah, I just wanted to surprise her, because I was like really preparing to hit a big forehand, but then like just at the last minute just change it up.  It was close.  She was really there to get the ball.  I'm glad that I got away with that one.
 You know, sometimes if I'm feeling good and good on the court, I really like to mix it up with some dropshots so the player would not know what I'm gonna do.  I think today that really did help me on the court.
 Q. In any tournament you're up against some top players in the third or fourth round.  Do you think this was a way you would like to have started, or would you have preferred a tougher opponent, maybe a tougher match?  Would this help you?  It gives you that much more confidence for the next match against Pliskova, big match coming up?
 ONS JABEUR:   Honestly, I think all players are tough.  I mean, they all are hungry to win in here, in this tournament.
 It's a small draw, so everyone is playing really good.  Anna was playing really good.  She qualified.  She had more matches than me, so it was a tricky match.  I'm glad that I handled it really well today.
 Of course tomorrow is going to be a different match, very difficult one.  Just gonna prepare for a very hard (audio breakup).  I'm ready.  I want to play my game.  Like I want to win again here like last year.
 You know, it's going to be like a very tricky match.  I'm sure she's gonna come on court really hungry to win, wants her revenge.  But I will be ready for that.
 I know I can have the level to play.  You know, these conditions this year are really different than at the other year, so honestly it's going to be a tricky match.
 Q. I was curious, looking through your performances thus far on the year, something that perhaps you haven't done quite as well as you did last year is execute with your first serve and just making that shot in the court to open everything else.  Now, I think you were around 50% today but you won 80% of your first-serve points.  Is that something you noticed perhaps in the layoff between Australia and this event in Doha?  Is that something you have been working on these past few weeks?
 ONS JABEUR:   I honestly thought I was serving a little bit better in Australia and maybe in Abu Dhabi, but especially in Australia.  I was trying like sometimes even like in the tough points I win with my serve.
 You're right, like here, during this tournament, I really not finding my rhythm in the serve, but I'm trying to get into that.
 Like I said, the balls are different, kind of heavy.  Also, it's a little bit windy so doesn't really help.  But I'm confident that hopefully tomorrow will help me and find my rhythm, because I think I will really need my service game.
 Q. For you now it's been about a year that you have been top 35 WTA player and it was last year around these two events in the Middle East that you had your biggest run of success.  I'm curious, what's the biggest difference in your approach to these events now one year later?  Is there any change in your approach?  Do you feel any difference, or do you approach these events the same way you did last year?
 ONS JABEUR:   I do.  I mean, honestly, I mean, last year I was actually looking for a win because I always wanted to win here in Doha but it didn't happen before.  Now I feel like I have the level to compete in quarters, semifinals, you know.  I know I can go as far as I can in this tournament.
 So maybe a little bit more pressure.  Maybe also more confident on the court.  I feel like I could really handle much better the stress and especially on tough moments.  So honestly, whatever happens tomorrow, I feel really good about myself.  I feel like I give it all in the practice, and I'm doing what I can to improve.
 If it's not gonna come in this tournament, probably the next tournaments will be much better.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT