AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2020
Ons Jabeur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








O. JABEUR/C. Wozniacki
7-5, 3-6, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What an achievement. Is it somehow different being on court with somebody who you know it's her last match if you win? Does it somehow influence your way of being on court, or do you just don't think about that and just try to play?
ONS JABEUR: Oh, like I said last time, I didn't want to, like, think about it too much. But, you know, I cannot not think about it, as well.
I just want to play my game. I know I had, even during the match, I know I had, like, more -- I was playing more, I was doing winners, and I was doing mistakes. So I was actually doing the game, and she was ready there. And of course there was a lot of pressure on her, on me at the same time.
She's a big player, and, I mean, I'm lucky enough to have played her already twice. Yeah, like I said in the interview at the end, she really inspired me.
Q. What does it feel like to be in the fourth round of a slam for the first time?
ONS JABEUR: Like I said last time, the third one was the charm, finally (smiling).
But I'm pretty happy to actually be on the fourth round for the first time, and actually Australian Open, which is surprising for me (smiling).
But hopefully the journey will continue. I don't want to stop here. I like to be in Melbourne, and hopefully Wang is going to be a little bit tired from the match. Let's see how it goes.
Q. You have a long day? You won the doubles, too. How are you physically? And how do you see the next match going?
ONS JABEUR: Yeah, I felt like I spent the whole day here.
Yeah, I played two hours in doubles, which never happens, but I'm glad we get the win, especially down 4-1 at the end.
Like, I'm really happy that I had to play a little bit maybe correct some stuff that I was making on the singles match. Doubles was a good opportunity. Plus playing with my Spanish friend. So it was fun.
Q. I know you saw the photo of the cafe in Tunisia, people watching at 3:00 in the morning.
ONS JABEUR: I saw that. Where did you get that picture?
Q. Your husband.
ONS JABEUR: Wow, okay.
Q. But I'm curious, what was your reaction to that?
ONS JABEUR: Well, Karim told me. I thought he just said it, you know. Then I saw the picture from your tweet, and I was like, Wow, what they are doing now? They should either be in the disco or sleeping.
But I'm really, really happy. I knew they were watching me back in Moscow, but now it's 3:00 a.m. so it's different. I'm honestly so proud and honored that they are following more tennis. Not only football, you know.
So thank God they're like doing great effort and following me.
Q. Do you regret that you're not going to face Serena?
ONS JABEUR: Sorry?
Q. Do you regret that you're not going to face Serena?
ONS JABEUR: Yeah, actually, I was a little bit disappointed, but I wanted to play her. She's a great player.
But maybe next Grand Slam.
Q. You played Wang earlier this year. So it's still fresh in your mind?
ONS JABEUR: No, I don't know what you're talking about (smiling).
No, that was not my best match probably. It's the first match of the year, so I will try to forget about it. We played in China so it was not fair.
Now hopefully, like now, played more matches, more prepared. It's fourth round. It's not first round of the WTA. It's going to be different match. I feel it.
Q. Just talk, the match with Caroline, I guess you were up 3-0 in the third. She came back. How nervy was that for you? How did you get through that?
ONS JABEUR: It was like a marathon, actually. I felt like my heart was beating 180 or something.
It was really scary. Like some forehand I'm supposed to not miss it, and I was a little bit stressed, so holding my hand a little bit.
I felt like there was a lot of opportunities to win, like, and make winners. It was like she was obviously running everywhere and getting all the balls, so did not help. Made me take more risks.
But I'm happy on the first set I came back and took the opportunity in the final set.
Q. You had some trouble on your backhand at the end of this match and we were wondering if it was injury-related or stress-related.
ONS JABEUR: I don't know what happened with my backhand today (smiling).
No, I think it was -- she knew that she had to play there. I don't know. I have really good backhand. I showed that during the match. Sometime if I'm relaxed and I really hit good backhands. But I don't know what happened at certain times. I think I was really nervous, you know.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT