NATURE VALLEY INTERNATIONAL
June 27, 2019
Ons Jabeur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
O. JABEUR/A. Cornet   
1-6, 7-5, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How is the ankle?  
ONS JABEUR: It's painful.  I don't know.  I'm really happy that I finished the match.  That's the important thing for me.   
We'll see tomorrow.  I have no idea.  I'm going to do my best thing to recover fast.  Doesn't look that bad.  It's not also good, but we'll see.   
 Q.  Can you just talk through what happened?  If I'm right, Cornet had gone over on her ankle as well at some stage in the match?  
ONS JABEUR: I mean, honestly, I was not focused with her.  She said that she had some pain or something, but for me I was staying focused.   
It was a tough rally at 40-Love.  I tried to go forehand down the line, and then I didn't lean very good on my, I mean, leg.  I heard, like, a crack.  It went really fast, but I don't know.   
Actually, it doesn't look that bad.  At the beginning, I thought I'm not going to be able to walk.  But then I was trying, and I was thinking about Karate Kid movie (smiling).   
Yeah, I don't care, playing on one leg.  For me, I was very close to win.  It's going to be a waste if I lose this match, you know.   
 Q.  Yesterday you were just about perfect against Konta.  Today there were a few unforced errors.  Was that just concentration?  
ONS JABEUR: Yeah, physically probably for me didn't help much.  It was a tough week for me.  First semifinal this year.   
But I'm pretty happy to come back after -- it happened first round and second round, the same scenario.  I think I like that somehow (smiling).   
But I'm pretty happy that I made it through to wake up the second set, and the third set was even better, you know.   
 Q.  Psychologically, how difficult is it having such a big game yesterday and beaten the top home player to build yourself up again for today's game?  Was that what kind of happened through the first set?  How did you reset?  
ONS JABEUR: I mean, yesterday I didn't want to think about it too much.  You know, it happened.  I won.  For me was to think about today.   
Honestly, Konta does not play the same as Alize.  Alize brings all the balls.  To win a point it was kind of tough for me, and at the beginning was mentally a little bit tough for me to win a point.   
But I know I had to work hard to win every point even if I have easy ball, and it's not an easy ball for me.  But, I mean, moving better the second set.  The third set, even though I was feeling really tired, but I had to pull that through.  Pretty happy that I did that.   
I didn't play my best tennis, for sure, but today I learned how to win with ugly tennis (smiling).   
 Q.  Is there any doubt in your mind that you can play tomorrow?  
ONS JABEUR: Honestly, I want to keep positive and be able to play, especially I'm playing against such a good player, Kerber, and we never played before.   
So for me it's an opportunity.  I'm going to do my best tonight.  I trust my team, I trust my physios, and we'll see.   
 Q.  Kerber is renowned for her movement, so your thoughts about playing someone who is defending Wimbledon champion?  
ONS JABEUR: For me, I have nothing to lose, for sure.  Wimbledon was last year, so maybe it was not the same.  I hope she will not play as good as she played last year.   
I'll be ready to play tomorrow.  I will do my best, for sure.  I mean, she's playing really good.  She proved herself everywhere in any tournament.  Nothing to lose.  I'm going to give 100%, for sure.   
 Q.  You spoke yesterday about carrying the home crowd with you.  They gave you a great reception today.  
ONS JABEUR: Yeah.  It was funny, because one of the moments some lady said, Come on, Alize.   
I looked at her, like, No, no, that's not good.  You have to cheer for me.   
But they were really nice supporting me, especially when I twisted my ankle at the end.  They were, like, clapping and saying, Come on.  I mean, giving me the good energy to continue and win this match.   
 Q.  Do you spend another hour in the ice bucket or what now?  
ONS JABEUR: I just did that, actually, yeah, for the ankle.   
Now I'm just gonna rest.  I have to eat.  A little bit hungry (smiling).  Probably go to the ocean.  I like to do that after the matches.   
 Q.  To swim?  
ONS JABEUR: I probably will.  I'm not sure. We'll see.   
 Q.  The healing qualities of the sea?  
ONS JABEUR: Yes.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT