NATURE VALLEY INTERNATIONAL
June 26, 2019
Ons Jabeur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
O. JABEUR/J. Konta   
6-3, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Just talk us through after that initial break.  You broke back and after that you never looked back.  
ONS JABEUR: I think that that was the key of the match, to wake up during the match.  She served really good.  It's tough to break her.   
But I think I was thinking in the match, just go forward, hit the ball hard.  Because it's tough on the grass to return these kind of shots.   
For me, that was the key to have, I think, more possibilities to break her during the first set and the second set.  It worked pretty good.  So I'm really happy with that.   
The serve was not the best, but I'm kind of happy how I only got broken once in the match.  Looking forward for the next match will be better.   
 Q.  At the beginning of the match, both of you were sort of brushing your hand against the grass because it probably felt a little wet.  Did it dry out fairly quickly, or were you both a bit tentative to begin with?  
ONS JABEUR: I mean, it was okay for me.  Probably not for her, because she was checking, Did you feel that?  I was, like, Not really.  Do you feel it?  Okay, just me?   
For me, it was okay.  It's good that we waited more, like, 10 or 5 minutes more.  I mean, you never know on grass.  Sometimes it's really slippery.  I had very bad experience before (smiling).   
 Q.  I was going to say how much experience do you have with, A, our weather, and B, the grass?  
ONS JABEUR: It was in Wimbledon, actually, once.  I fell and it wasn't a good one.  So I wanted to wait more so it dry out and it will be pretty good to play.   
 Q.  What's it like for you when you're playing a tournament like this and you're playing the home favorite and things?  Does that increase pressure or take the pressure off you completely and allow you just to get on with the game?  
ONS JABEUR: Well, not the best positions ever, but I like sometimes when the crowd is against me.  But I think they're very nice ones (smiling).   
I have had worse before.  So it wasn't very tough.  I mean, I have obviously played really good.  I didn't leave her the chance to come back.  I think it will be different match if it was 5-5, 6-All.  I mean, it will be much different for me and difficult for me.   
 Q.  Was your game plan to really get out of the blocks quickly and to take the game to her?  
ONS JABEUR: Yeah.  For me, I knew what was her best shots and the key was to focus more on my game.  Because not many girls that like slice or dropshots, so for me, if I can do that, then it's gonna be more difficult for them to, I mean, play their game or do whatever they can do.   
 Q.  One of the things you said in your on-court interview is you had actually been inspired by Jo, some of the games she played.  What inspired you?  
ONS JABEUR: She made semifinal once in Wimbledon, I think it was two years ago.  I mean, I like how she is all the time making the same routines in the serve, how she's always focused even if she's missing.  She doesn't get angry or negative on the court.   
I mean, for me, I like her.  She's one of the best players I like on tour.  She's the nicest outside the court, on the court.  And she's a fair player.  She really inspires me.   
Because I cannot do the same routine all the time.  I get fed up.  So, I mean, I honestly appreciate players like this.   
 Q.  I think you've got Cornet or Zhang?  
ONS JABEUR: Cornet, I think.  She won.   
 Q.  Thoughts about facing her?  
ONS JABEUR: We never played before.  This is the first time.  We played against each other in practice, but this is the official match tomorrow.   
I mean, she's a great player.  She has more experience than me, but I feel like grass is my field, my kind of court.  I like to do kind of stuff.  So I think it's going to be a pretty good match.   
 Q.  What are your aims and ambitions for the grass court season?  Or do you just come over and take each day as it comes and live in the present?  
ONS JABEUR: Well, one of the best courts I like, so everyone's kind of waiting for me to do great results, which puts a lot of pressure on me.  But hopefully this is gonna be great preparation for Wimbledon.  It's one of the tournaments I love, and, I mean, I'm just going to play match by match.   
If I can win this one and be more confident for Wimbledon, then it's going to be the best.   
 Q.  How do you relax away from the tennis court?  When you've had a win like this, do you take it easy tonight?  Go out for a meal?  How else do you relax normally?  Music?  Reading?  
ONS JABEUR: A lot of good rehab.  I eat at the same restaurant every day.  I mean, just have my physio here with me, so I have to be prepared physically, which is very important for me.   
Yeah, I watch the World Cup football.  I love football so much.  I want actually to be there with them on the field, because grass season reminds me of how I play football.  And for the skills and everything, I like to do that.  I try to go with the ball here on the grass, but I always remind myself that I'm a tennis player, not football.   
 Q.  Music recommendation?  One music song that you recommend?  
ONS JABEUR: Well, now I listen to a lot of French but I'm big fan of Eminem.  He's motivate me sometimes when I need good music.  Just go with Eminem.  Whatever song you choose is the best.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT