ROLAND GARROS
June 2, 2017
Ons Jabeur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








T. BACSINSZKY/O. Jabeur
6-2, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. Walk us through the match.  And the conditions were very different than the ones you had against Cibulkova, so just talk about that.
ONS JABEUR: Yeah.  Physically, I was, like, I couldn't find my legs today.  I don't know where they gone.  Maybe my sister played today.  I'm not sure it was me.
It was a little bit tough.  I mean, I was trying to really play and put the ball in.  Physically, I was not there.  And if I'm physically done, then mentally affected me a little bit.
But I'm a little bit disappointed with finish like this because it was really good tournament for me.  I was trying to make it in the third set, but it was a little bit tough at the end.
But still happy with my performance here.  And I'm going to work even harder to be ready for the other Grand Slams, I hope.
Q. Did you get a sense of the kind of reaction from back home and just from everyone to what you did, and how did you deal with that and manage to focus?
ONS JABEUR: Yeah, I got a lot of texts from kind of everybody.  I couldn't reply to everyone, unfortunately.
But I honestly tried to forget my win against Cibulkova yesterday because I had to move on a little bit.  And it was tough because everyone sees me says, like, Congrats, congrats.  I'm like, Okay, it was yesterday.  I'm trying to forget about it.
And I don't want people think that I won yesterday that today I gave up or something.  I didn't want to do that.  I just wanted to play my game, but I just physically wasn't ready.  I played six matches, I think, and it's really long.
Q. I guess what's the biggest takeaway from this tournament for you and just what is the thing you learned the most?
ONS JABEUR: I honestly learned that even when you lose, you have to believe that maybe you get in again as a lucky loser.  And just have to believe in yourself even if you play a top 10.
You just have to believe in yourself and you believe that she can be not -- it can be not her day that day.  You can be better.  And you have to believe in yourself as much as you can.
Q. The grass season, I guess, what is your schedule like and do you like grass?
ONS JABEUR: Yeah, I love grass, especially when my drop shot is in.
I'm preparing --  honestly, now I'm supposed to play a tournament next week.  I'm not sure I will play it.  And then the next week I have a Fed Cup, and then I have Mallorca starting on grass, and then I have Wimbledon quallies.  Hopefully last quallies for Grand Slam because it's not really good to play every time three matches to get in.
But I'm happy to play on grass.  I'm just going to have fun because I love grass so much.  I will try to jump a little bit also, like, do some shots in the air just to have fun like Brown.
But honestly, my goal now is to qualify again and to show, like, everyone that I'm capable to go and play good on grass.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. So you will go to Tunisia.  Are you going to enjoy Ramadan with family or are you going to take part in a tournament?
ONS JABEUR: I don't know yet.  I will talk with my coach.  I was supposed to take part in a tournament in Croatia but have played lots of matches.  It will be very difficult to back it up.  I need to recover well, and I don't want to be injured.
Because Wimbledon is just around the corner.  So what is important for me is to recover as quickly as possible.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT