DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 21, 2017
Ons Jabeur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. WANG/O. Jabeur
6-3, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What's your feeling after you lost?
ONS JABEUR: I mean, it was tough for me physically to handle today.  She plays really good.  I tried to maintain and play my game, but wasn't probably my day.
Really happy with this tournament, so hopefully will continue, like, positive and looking forward for the next tournaments.
Q. You did your target here in Dubai?
ONS JABEUR: I mean, first of all, was to qualify, and I did it.  Then I won first round, was actually after, match by match.  I wanted to go as far as I can in this tournament.  I didn't want to really end like today.  I was hoping to play better, or maybe it will be better to lose three sets and tough and stuff.
But, you know, it's tennis.  I'm keeping positive energy for the next tournaments.
Q. Do you feel a lot of pressure as one of the only or the highest-ranked Arab player, particularly when you come to an Arab country and you have a lot of supporters because of the Arab factor?
ONS JABEUR: Not really.  I'm more proud to be here and to represent the Arab world.  It was special to win here.  I wanted to go, like, better, in the quarterfinals or something.
It's premier event.  Still a big tournament for me.  My ranking is getting better, but I hope, like, next year will come back stronger.  Hopefully will be playing on centre court and have more, like, people to come to cheer for me.
Q. (Question about the match.)
ONS JABEUR: No, not really.  Just like the whole thing was trying to get myself into the match.  It's not about first or second game.  It's just like I was trying to do my best to get in the match, to win more games.
My serve wasn't really good today.  I struggled a little bit.  But, I mean, I tried my best.  That's tennis.
Q. What's your view of Arab tennis?  Is there enough Arab tennis players coming through?  If not, why not?
ONS JABEUR: Well, not really.  I'm hoping to see more players either from my country or other Arabic countries to compete and be in at least top 500.
For sure, we don't have probably the mentality to be in the professional players in tennis.  I'm thinking we don't have the good strategy to practice.
We have to have a good schedule program to practice and to be like professional always, I mean, in the court or off the court.
We have to really work hard to be in that place.  I hope they are doing good job.  I don't know what actually doing, but I hope they are doing and trying to be one of the best.
Q. Can you see it changing?  And how will it change?
ONS JABEUR: I can see it changing, yeah.  If we, like probably, as I told you, have a good program, and the players will want -- because I know there is a lot of young players.  They want to be in the top.  They see, like, the big players and they want to be in their spot.  They want to win.  They want to do and be in their places.  So, yeah, why not?
We have the energy to do it.  There is other stuff you have to really work hard and do it one day.
Q. When you retire, which is obviously a long way away, can you see yourself and the likes of Jaziri helping out in that sort of managerial role?
ONS JABEUR: Of course, yeah.  I would see myself doing something, probably in Tunisia because it's my country.  It's actually one of my goals to have either academy or anything, a base to help players.
I hope I will have the chance one day.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT