QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 26, 2020
Ons Jabeur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








O. JABEUR/K. Pliskova
6-4, 3-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You were just broken twice through those three sets and seemed to obviously play very well. Can you talk through the match and what do you think the key was in the end?
ONS JABEUR: Yeah, well I had to play really good, she's a tough player and especially her serve it's not easy to break, so I had to really serve good or be ready for her returns.
I mean, I know when I chose to receive at the beginning it was opportunity to try to break her at the beginning, it worked pretty good.
She served amazing, the break points, so I was kind of frustrated sometimes because when I play the point and I miss the ball easy I know it's not going to be that easy at the end to return her serves.
But I'm glad that I maintained really good game and I'm looking forward for the next match.
Q. Just talk about the crowd and the atmosphere tonight, it's something that probably we haven't seen much here at that level of excitement and how much of that was a burden and how much of it was a pleasure?
ONS JABEUR: Well, it's a crazy crowd, they think it's a football match (laughing), obviously. But I'm glad they were here to support me. I'm really apologize to Karolina for the misbehaving in between serves, because I hope they know they're not just bothering her but also me and it's not fair play.
So I hope she doesn't really be angry about it and, I mean, hopefully the crowd will learn next time to really support during the point. And I'm really glad they came, happy to see all the Tunisian flags, it's an unbelievable feeling and hopefully I can see them tomorrow.
Q. You said after the Halep match that you practiced your forehand quite a bit before this tournament. It seemed like that came through pretty well for you, especially in the late stages of this match. Talk about how important that shot is in your game.
ONS JABEUR: Yeah, I manage to win a lot of winners with my forehand, so it's really important for me to make like good shots and be ready to actually return some good, like because she plays really flat, so it's kind of sometimes difficult to be able to maintain that level.
But I'm glad that I made it through, I'm glad that I sometimes managed to control the point with my forehand.
Actually surprised with my backhand today was really good, saved me some good points, so I'm glad I made it through.
Drop shot wasn't here today, unfortunately.
But, yeah, I'm really happy that I was actually focused and nothing much to say, I don't regret many things, so I'm happy with the way I played today really.
Q. It looked like in the end that there was a little bit of pain that you were seemingly fighting through something. So can you kind of elaborate on that?
ONS JABEUR: Yeah, I had a sharp pain on my hamstring, right hamstring, when I was going for the forehand at 4-2 my serve.
But, I mean, I don't know, I didn't really want to call the physio, so people would not think that I'm doing it on purpose. And plus I didn't want to break the rhythm I was trying to maintain. And it was really difficult at the end to jump, but, I mean, she kind of helped me with making mistakes, which I'm glad that really happened on her serve. I managed through and I'm really happy that I did that.
Q. Just looking ahead to playing Petra. What is the concern there, playing Petra or getting physically ready to play Petra?
ONS JABEUR: I mean Petra is Petra. She's not, she plays unbelievable and she's a tough player. We played at Wimbledon, so hopefully I can be ready more this time. It's different surface, it's a great tournament for me for now.
She's a lefty, so she could really bother me with her serve. So I think I'm going to be ready, I'm much better than last year, so I have really high hopes for tomorrow.
Hopefully, my hamstring will be better. I'm going to do my best tonight to recover and honestly I think it's going to be a great match.
Q. Speaking about Maria Sharapova, what would you say for her?
ONS JABEUR: Well, I'm really sad that she's retiring. We never got the chance to play each other, unfortunately, but she's a great player, been lucky enough to have been with her on tour and I wish her the best for the her.
I don't know what she's going to do after tennis, whatever in her personal life, really glad that I got to say hello a few times, we didn't really talk, but at least we had the chance to meet each other and maybe, we never know, maybe one day we can really meet and have something together.
Q. How do women in your country see your rise in this sport that is not so popular and what kind of messages do you receive from them?
ONS JABEUR: Well, I'm really glad that I'm setting the example here, I'm giving them -- like I'm just sending the message that nothing is impossible and they can achieve anything, either in sports or any other level.
I'm glad that I'm doing this, I started from the bottom, like they say, and hopefully I'm looking forward to see many other women rising in tennis, I mean especially in Tunisia or in Arabic world and Africa. It would mean a lot to me and I'm happy to share my experience one day and then help this young generation.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT