NBA DRAFT 2019
June 20, 2019
Darius Garland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just kind of summarize your feelings from tonight so far.
DARIUS GARLAND: I'm speechless.  Really excited.  Can't wait to get to Cleveland, start working.  It's the best feeling ever.  It's always been a dream of mine, so I'm really happy.
Q. Tell me about your suit, the story behind it.
DARIUS GARLAND: This is a Fear of God suit made by Jerry Lorenzo, Mr. Boswell and Ms. Teresa.  I just want to be different.  More comfortable than wearing the actual suit. It's what we came up with.
Q. Talk about going to Cleveland.  Were you a little surprised, because they have another point guard there, both you guys together could be pretty interesting?
DARIUS GARLAND: No, I wasn't surprised at all.  I think me and Collin [Sexton] will play really well together.  You see Damian Lillard and CJ McCollum playing really well, playing in the playoffs.  The future is really bright for us.
Q. Talk about the road to recovery the past few months, how that's been, how your knee is feeling right now.
DARIUS GARLAND: It's been a long road.  But everybody faces adversity.  I got over the hump.  I'm 100% now.  That's in the past.  I'm ready to get to Cleveland, start working.
Q. Have you spoken with Coach Beilein at all?  How do you think you'll fit into his vision?
DARIUS GARLAND: Yeah, I talked to him before.  The vision is going to be bright, like I said.  The two guards we have, Collin, hopefully me coming into this position.  There's a lot of really young talent.  I'm really excited to get working.
Q. Bryce [Drew] obviously isn't coaching at Vanderbilt any more.  He's somebody you've known for a long time, spoke highly of you when he was there.  How did it feel to have him by your side tonight?
DARIUS GARLAND: It was really fun to see him.  It was good to see him.  Hadn't seen him in a while.  Catching up with him, having good conversations.  Remembering the past, the short time we had at Vanderbilt, it was really fun.
Q. Who was your idol growing up?  Who do you think your game is most like in the league?
DARIUS GARLAND: My idol was my dad.  He's been by my side since I can remember.
But I don't really model my game after anyone.  I just have to get the best that I can be.  I watch a lot of guards and take bits and pieces from every other guard.  I just have to be the best that I can be.
Q. You will be connected together as the class of 2019.  What do you think as a class you all bring together for the league?
DARIUS GARLAND: Together I believe that we bring a lot of excitement.  You can tell Zion, RJ, Cam, Ja Morant, we bring a lot of excitement to the crowd.  I think we can draw a lot of people to the games, come out and support.  I believe that we just bring that as a class.
Q. Have you had any conversations with Collin yet about what how it could play out, how you could complement one another?
DARIUS GARLAND: No, I haven't talked to Collin yet.  When I get a chance to, we definitely will talk about that.  Like I said, he's really, really good at what he does.  I'm really excited to be in the backcourt with him.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT