OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 4, 2015
Tim Beck
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   Just to dive right in.   Is there such a thing as having too many quarterbacks on the roster?
CO‑OFFENSIVE COORDINATOR TIM BECK:   Wow, that's a great question, and one that's been asked quite a bit.   And I don't know.   I think the good part, those guys understand.   It's an interesting group.   The little bit I've been around them, great young men, hard working.   There's a tremendous bond among all three of them, which is a great tribute to Tom, what he was able to put together.   They compete hard, because they want to win and they want to play.   But they also help each other.
So I think it will be interesting.   I'm excited to get a chance to get to know the guys and look forward to seeing really what develops.   But I don't know, it's kind of a good problem to probably have right now, isn't it? 

Q.   How appealing is that to a coach, to see the talent you can come work with?   Was it a selling point for you?
CO‑OFFENSIVE COORDINATOR TIM BECK:   Yeah, that's a part of it.   I think this is the Ohio State University, right, and growing up in Ohio it's a dream come true to be able to come here and work with Coach Meyer and really all the staff.   These guys do a great job.   And the culture and the program, and it's what I believe in.   I'm really excited. 

Q.   Can you describe the process by which you took the job?   Your Buckeye ties?
CO‑OFFENSIVE COORDINATOR TIM BECK:   Yeah, you know, it was interesting.   Obviously being in the Big 10, coming from the University of Nebraska, so there was always a tie recently.   And then knowing Ed Warinner, as well, with Ed and I working together at the University of Kansas.   And Coach Meyer and I crossed paths really early in my career, he recruited one of my players to Florida.   I've known him for a while.   And we've always crossed paths and seen each other.   It's just how it worked out.
I think when Tom had his opportunities to go they were looking for a guy that coaches quarterbacks, and maybe had the Ohio roots, recruiting Texas, possibly, knowing the Big 10 conference.   So I think it was a pretty good marriage.   And I think that started it.   That started that process.
As far as this is the university, right?   This is the place.   So when you grow up and even though Youngstown is a little further away, you always watch it and it was always great to watch the big game.   You just know everything about the university and what it stands for.   And again, it's just a great honor to be here. 

Q.   How would you describe yourself as a coach?   What's important to you?
CO‑OFFENSIVE COORDINATOR TIM BECK:   You know, I believe in our guys.   They've got to be accountable.   We've got to build trust.   They've got to be tough.   I think toughness, that's the one thing.   Somebody asked me what was it like watching the Championship game or the game versus Alabama, what did you notice?   I noticed how tough Ohio State was.   Just physically, mentally tough.
And growing up in that environment, that's really important.   It's kind of my roots.   I think that's important.   Being accountable, saying who you are, having integrity, if you're going to do something, you do it.   A little bit like that. 

Q.   Taking over an offensive score, a lot of points, put up a lot of yards, particularly in the last three games.   How much of a challenge is it to improve along that? 
CO‑OFFENSIVE COORDINATOR TIM BECK:   Obviously I think the first thing you have to do is keep challenging the returning players.   You've got to motivate them.   You've got to keep pushing them.   That's going to be probably the biggest ‑‑ besides that, developing the younger players.   I think those two things are going to be very paramount to what happens.
We score a lot of points, we were an extremely efficient offense, but we weren't perfect.   You strive for perfection.   That's how I am.   I'm going to strive for that.   I know Ed is the same way.   We're just going to keep pushing our guys and pushing our guys and pushing our guys.   That's the key to it.   They have to keep working to get better and wanting to get better. 

Q.   You take this job and you have to go in and recruit and build relationships, perhaps you were already recruiting those guys in Nebraska.   Go over that, what you had to sell them on, what they needed to find out about you and all that?
CO‑OFFENSIVE COORDINATOR TIM BECK:   Yeah, I knew of those guys.   At the University of Nebraska we had a commit early.   It took us out of the race for 2015 quarterback.   So as the recruiting process, I think he committed in February, around this time a year ago, that we kind of backed off those guys.   But I knew of those, stayed in touch with some guys here and there.
But they were aware.   I've seen guys, be at my areas, whether I would be out on the road or see the offensive guys, swing by a school here or there, to see a guy to check in on him.   But there were relationships.   Joe, obviously, you know, had strong ties to Nebraska with his family.   And so being able to get into his home and just kind of letting him know the lay of the land and what actually took place in our process over there, to be able to just sit down and spend time with him, really.   And just give him a chance to see who I am, get a chance to know him, the family. 
And the same with Torrence.   We knew Torrence at University of Nebraska, we recruited a player, even two years ago when he was there we saw him practicing and those types of things.
But again, it was one of those things we kind of really weren't looking for quarterbacks at the time.   We went and had the opportunity just to sit down and visit with mom and every time I went there I saw those guys. 

Q.   What's been the talk of red shirting those guys?
CO‑OFFENSIVE COORDINATOR TIM BECK:   You never know.   You never know.   One play away, you never know.   Cardale Jones is going to win a national title for you, right?   You just never know.   That's what you tell them.   And they're going to develop under Coach Meyer's system here, and what he's done wherever he went, quarterbacks have been extremely successful.   And I think they saw that.   They saw the opportunity to come and play on offense, the way they could get better.   They saw a chance to play at a program that's going to develop them as young men and student‑athletes. 
And they want to be at Ohio State University.   My hat is off to them.   They're going to compete.   And our guys know they're going to compete. 

Q.   Along the same lines with Joe.   There was talk that he was disappointed that Nebraska never stepped up with an offer.   Did you have to do a lot of smoothing over with him at Ohio State?
CO‑OFFENSIVE COORDINATOR TIM BECK:   More discussing than smoothing over.   When you're working at a university you obviously support the university and what's going on.   And once we made the change and we came here we were able to disclose a little bit how the process took place, the numbers, how we were recruiting, who we were getting, those types of things.
I think once they saw that and saw that it was again, here's what happened, I think they felt comfortable.   As we got to know, I know they know, they felt really good about it. 

Q.   Seems like he does so many things well.
CO‑OFFENSIVE COORDINATOR TIM BECK:   Coach's kid.   Tough.   I got a chance one day to watch him play basketball.   What a competitor, driven.   There's sometimes guys that can jump higher or run faster or whatever in the game, but he was playing his guts out.   You've got to love that. 
He's a coach's kid.   He's smart.   He brings a lot of intangibles to him.   A lot of times those are the guys that end up being successful as quarterbacks.   They're going to put the grind in, the work in to be that guy. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
CO‑OFFENSIVE COORDINATOR TIM BECK:   No. 

Q.   As you go into your meeting room now, do you set your players in seats, this is the first guy, second guy, third guy, fourth guy, are you that type of coach?   Number two, how do you arrange that?
CO‑OFFENSIVE COORDINATOR TIM BECK:   Right now I'm trying to meet them more as people, not as position, depth chart type guys, try to get to know them, let them get to know me.
We're in a unique position.   No. 1, I'm replacing a great guy.   He did an outstanding job here and I'm coming in here and have to bond with three super young men ‑‑ really, more than that.   There's seven guys, counting all the walk‑ons.   But I've got to bond with all those guys in that room.   Before I could really coach them and reach them, I've got to get to know them.   That's kind of where I'm at at this point.

Q.   It looks like, based on what we've been able to see, Hale is the only one of those three that's going to be full go for the spring.   How is that going to hamstring you, to try to get an evaluation going?
CO‑OFFENSIVE COORDINATOR TIM BECK:   Have you seen him throw?   I don't know if it hamstrings us.
I think that one thing is they've got a lot of game experience under their belt.   Both Braxton, J.T., those guys, they've played a lot of ball games, took a lot of snaps.   You could just put the film on and have the opportunity to evaluate those guys a little bit.   And even really Cardale has played a fair amount. 
But there's still growth in all of those guys, there's no question.   They'll be the first ones to tell you, if you would ask them.
So it gets a chance to see maybe some of the young guys with Steve and those things.

Q.   In your mind, what is the cutting line for the starting quarterback?   What usually makes the difference?
CO‑OFFENSIVE COORDINATOR TIM BECK:   Winning.   They've got to win.   They've got to make the guys around them better.   They've got to turn the ball over and get the ball to the right guys.   Usually that equates to winning. 
If they're making the players around them better, they're doing the right things, getting the ball to the right guys at the right time, getting us the right pressure, we're probably going to be winning.   So that's how you're able to evaluate the production of a quarterback.   It's the offense, it's not always him or his statistics. 

Q.   Philosophically, do you believe that you could play two quarterbacks in the fall or do you want the guy?
CO‑OFFENSIVE COORDINATOR TIM BECK:   Well, I don't know.   I haven't given that a whole lot of thought, how it is.   I really haven't. 

Q.   Are you certain that Braxton will be on the team?
CO‑OFFENSIVE COORDINATOR TIM BECK:   Yes. 

Q.   And have you had a chance to talk about it?
CO‑OFFENSIVE COORDINATOR TIM BECK:   Oh, yeah, yeah.   Absolutely. 

Q.   Torrence, obviously one of the more highly‑rated guys.   A lot of ‑‑ when you watch his film, what makes you so sure that that's the right position for him and how do you break it down?
CO‑OFFENSIVE COORDINATOR TIM BECK:   I think he's a special player with the ball in his hand, there's no question about it.   And again, some of the things I talked about, winning, he's able to make the players around look better.   He's able to move the offense.   Like all quarterbacks, even the guys that we have here, there's still some mechanical things or technique things or knowledge things that they still have to pick up in order to function at the highest level that they can. 
Joe, Torrence, they're no different.   They're going to have to come in and learn and improve and maybe do a couple of things different than what they've normally done.   But athleticism, talent‑wise, intangible‑wise, he's a winner.   He's won championships.   He's been able to go in a program and turn that program around and win.   It takes something to be able to do that.   I believe that.   I think guys in Division I, top‑notch quarterback, he's got to get people around him to play like that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT