CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 14, 2018
Nasa Hataoka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: All right, we are here with our final press conference of the day, here with world No. 6, Nasa Hataoka.  Nasa is fourth in the reset points for the Race to the CME Globe, has two wins this year at the Walmart Northwest Arkansas Championship presented by P&G, and the Toto Japan Classic.
She has nine other top 10 finishes, including coming after her amazing final round 64 at the KPMG Women's PGA Championship.  She's top 10 in birdies, rounds in the 60s, top 10 finishes, scoring average, and putting average.
Welcome Nasa.  It's good to see you.  What an amazing year this has been for you.  Is it safe to say this is some of the best golf you've ever played in your life?
NASA HATAOKA: (Through translation.)  I think I'm being able to play the best season different from the start of the season, a way better season right now.
THE MODERATOR: What has made this the best season for you?  What changed for you during the off-season to make this happen?
NASA HATAOKA: (Through translation.)  My usual shots started to get better as the days went by, and then I tried to make it a lot more better and kept continuing doing that.  So that's what I got.
THE MODERATOR: Is that from practicing off the golf course or more experience on the golf course?  Where do you think that has come from?
NASA HATAOKA: (Through translation.)  With the swing I was able to adjust it a lot on the practice range with my swings.
Other than that, a lot of it was from playing on the golf course.
THE MODERATOR: So more experience.  We'll open it up for questions.  I was with you two weeks ago in Japan when you won.  Tell us about that experience and what it was like.  It was your second win, but the first time with the LPGA of winning at home.
NASA HATAOKA: (Through translation.)  For me to be able to win in Japan as an LPGA player was something really big.  Also, the spectators being Japanese they really supported me a lot.
THE MODERATOR: I know the travel that's involved with LPGA is a lot.  Tell us about how much you've grown over the last two years and gotten the experience of being on the road and being with all these different people and in different places.  Tell us about how you've grown.
NASA HATAOKA: (Through translation.)  I had problems with the planes, not being able to get on it; not being able to practice so much at the U.S. Open and all kinds of things happened.
But I'm starting to be able to adjust to that and take it calm.
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. So the LPGA Tour continues to grow, and yesterday the announcement coming that the purse in this event has doubled.  You're a young player on tour.  How exciting is it to see this sort of growth and the opportunities that exist?
NASA HATAOKA: (Through translation.)  There is a lot more sponsors now and the level of the LPGA has grown, so I'm wishing that they would just keep on growing.
Q. What were your goals for the season at the start of the year, and how did those change as the season progressed?
NASA HATAOKA: (Through translation.)  The goal was to at least win once, but being able to win in Arkansas, that also gave me another thought to go ahead and wish for another one, which also happened.
Q. And your mom didn't travel with you last year, right?  But she did this year, right?  Can you talk about how much that helped you this year, having your mom with you?
NASA HATAOKA: (Through translation.)  The main would be that she was able to make all my foods and things.  The only other thing is I was alone in the rooms, so having her there really supported me.
THE MODERATOR: Further questions?  Okay, I will wrap it up with one last question.  You have the chance of winning $1 million on Sunday.  If you were to win $1 million, what would you do with it?  Would you buy yourself something?  What would you do?
NASA HATAOKA: (Through translation.)  Seeing all the houses on the golf course really inspires me to want one of those.
THE MODERATOR: Believe me, so do I.  Thank you, Nasa.  Good luck.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT