KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 2018
Nasa Hataoka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, we are here with Nasa Hataoka, who returned an amazing round of 64 today to pull herself up into a playoff.  Unfortunately lost on the first hole, but Nasa, you had an amazing day today.  Tell us what got into you?  What drove your great round today?
NASA HATAOKA: Finally on the final round of the tournament, I was able to play my game today.
Q. Tell us about the two eagles you had today, the eagle at No. 7 and the eagle at No. 11.  Those really seemed to push your round today.
NASA HATAOKA: The eagle on 7, it was from the back bunker, but I chipped it in.  But I hit it like I imagined.  And the eagle on 11, I went for it in two and got it to about 4.5 meters and was able to hole that one, as well.
THE MODERATOR: And then you had to wait a very long time for the playoff; what was the wait like for you as you waited to see what was happening on the golf course?
NASA HATAOKA: I waited for about an hour, and when I was waiting, I didn't really think too much, but when the last group was getting close to finishing their round, I did feel like a playoff was within sight, and so that's when I decided to start practicing.
Q. Did you imagine when you finished that 10-under was a good number, that it was possible to win with that?
NASA HATAOKA: When I did finish, I didn't think I'd be in the playoff.  I did not think I would be in the playoff.  But before the tournament started, I thought double digits was a good score to reach for, so I'm very pleased about that.
Q. What were your thoughts when the birdie putt went in by Ryu, and then all of a sudden you had to make one to stay in?
NASA HATAOKA: Well, they're both major champs.  They're both great players, and yeah, when So Yeon made her putt, I had to give my hats off to her.
Q. Can you just talk about the nerves that you felt going against two big names in a playoff for the first time in a major championship?
NASA HATAOKA: Yeah, I did feel nerves going in, but on the other hand, I haven't won a major yet, so I felt like I had nothing to lose.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT