KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
October 7, 2020
Nasa Hataoka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   Welcome back, everybody.  We are here with Rolex Rankings No. 5 Nasa Hataoka.  Nasa is competing in her fourth KPMG Women's PGA Championship with a tie for second in a playoff in 2018.  She's making her eighth start of the 2020 LPGA Tour season with four top-10 finishes.  Nasa, welcome to Aronimink.  It's a lovely fall day out here.  What are your thoughts on Aronimink, this long golf course that's going to be quite a major test?
NASA HATAOKA:   Especially compared to last week I feel the rough is very long as well as the distance.
THE MODERATOR:   What are you working on the hardest on your game as you get ready for this championship?  You've come so close to winning a major.  What are you working on the most to finally get that major win?
NASA HATAOKA:   After the last couple of days I feel like the golf course has large greens, so I feel like I needed to work on long putt feels.
THE MODERATOR:   We're also expecting a fair amount of wind this week, a lot today.  How does that challenge you as you get ready?
NASA HATAOKA:   Yes, that's definitely going to come into play, so I'll make sure that I'll get the wind direction correctly by talking to my caddie and making the right decisions.
Q. Seven of the eight last major winners on the LPGA have been first-time major winners.  Is that encouraging as you chase that first major?
NASA HATAOKA:   Yes, two years ago I was in a playoff at this tournament, and at ANA this year I was in the top 10.  I finished top 10, so I feel like I'm going the right direction.  But every week is a different challenge, and I don't really want to think about the results, getting too far ahead of myself right now.
THE MODERATOR:   This event talks about inspiring greatness.  Who inspires you as a player, and a human, and what does it mean to you to inspire the next generation of golfers?
NASA HATAOKA:   Ai Miyazato was the person who inspired me to play, to be a golfer.  Not only as a good golfer but as a person.  She was definitely someone that I wanted to be like growing up.  As for me, I wish I could be like Ai Miyazato and inspire the next generation of young golfers by hopefully playing well this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT