SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
October 2, 2020
Nasa Hataoka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Nasa, for someone who hasn't played here in a couple years you seem to be very familiar.  What was working right out there for you today?
 NASA HATAOKA:   I wasn't striking the ball as well as yesterday, but I was able to convert my birdie chances where I wanted to and that was good.
 Q. You started off with birdie and had bogey on No. 2.  What you did you say to then will two more birdies in the next couple holes?
 NASA HATAOKA:   I didn't really say too much to my myself, but the pin placements were pretty difficult, so just didn't really change from the 1st hole.
 Q. All right.  What were some of the different conditions maybe from yesterday's afternoon round to this morning?
 NASA HATAOKA:   Biggest difference is on the greens because of the poana.  They're not as bumpy in the morning.
 Q. Two birdies to end your round in three holes.  Take us through some of those birdies.  Short putts?  Long putts?  What do you think made them so successful?
 NASA HATAOKA:   So 16 I had about a four-footer for birdie; 18, about three feet.
 Today wasn't about making long putts.  It was more like converting the small chances I had.
 Q. With some of the reachable par-5s, are you one of those excited to go pin seeking?
 NASA HATAOKA:   Yes, I definitely want to go for it.  But these two days I been in between clubs, so maybe I'll think about my club setting this afternoon.
 Q. You almost chipped in at 18.  Did you think that had a legitimate chance to go in, and what was your reaction there when it skipped right over the hole?
 NASA HATAOKA:   Felt like hit it a little stronger than I wanted and didn't really have that much spin of if.  So if it didn't hit the pin it may have gone a little bit past.
 We're glad that to hit the center of the pin.
 Q. Just curious, did you grow up looking up to Ai Miyazato, and what impact did she have on your career basically?
 NASA HATAOKA:   Yes, I looked up to her.  She was a player I felt like that played mostly in the U.S. instead of played in Japan.  She's obviously won here, and I feel like maybe it will be a chance for another Japanese player to win this tournament.
 Q. That's my next question.  When Ai won here it made her the No. 1 player in the world.  For you to do well and maybe win at a place that she won at, what would that mean to you?
 NASA HATAOKA:   Well, even if I were to win this week, I still won't be No. 1 in the world.  I'll definitely get closer.  Hopefully I can make that happen.
 Q. Last one from me.  You got to do a lot interviews after your rounds.  How do you handle that?  How do you handle all the post obligations?
 NASA HATAOKA:   Well, I wish I could do some of the interviews by myself in English, but I'll keep on trying.  You know, maybe this week I'll see if I can do a little bit more in English.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT