ANA INSPIRATION
September 8, 2020
Nasa Hataoka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   Welcome inside the virtual media center here at the ANA Inspiration.  I am happy to welcome three-time LPGA Tour winner Nasa Hataoka and Rolex Rankings No. 7.  How are you doing today?
NASA HATAOKA:   I'm doing well.  I haven't practiced yet today, but I'm looking forward to the second major of the season.
THE MODERATOR:   After having quite the break from the LPGA Tour, we had another quick one right after the Wal-Mart NWA Championship.  What did you do during your time last week to prepare for this week in Palm Springs?
NASA HATAOKA:   It was a long break after the three tournaments starting in Scotland, and I found some things that I need to work on, so that's what I practiced last week.
THE MODERATOR:   What are some of the things that you worked on?
NASA HATAOKA:   Mainly my short game, especially after playing under the windy conditions in Scotland.  I thought I needed some work on getting up and down on a lot of shots.
THE MODERATOR:   You've had a top-30 finish in the last tournament that we had.  How have you felt about your game as of late as you started to prepare for this week's major?
NASA HATAOKA:   Arkansas was definitely a memorable tournament for me, especially having won my first LPGA tournament, but the top-30 finish was a little bit disappointing.  But the season has just started again, and just want to get into my tournament performance mode.  I feel pretty confident, feel good right now, so I'm looking forward to it.
THE MODERATOR:   There is a lot different this year here in Palm Springs.  I bet you might have noticed how 18 looks and how there's no grandstands around anywhere.  What have you thought of some of the changes for this year?
NASA HATAOKA:   The weather is obviously the most surprising thing this week.  When I landed at the airport, it was incredibly hot.
In terms of the golf course, though, it feels like compared to normal, the course is a little bit softer, and so my second shots seems like I might have longer clubs in my hand.
The greens feel a little softer, as well, but they are fast.  If I have a long iron or long shots for my approaches to the green, I'll make sure that I keep it in front of the pin.
THE MODERATOR:   One of the things you just talked about is the heat is definitely different this year.  What are some of the strategies that you and your caddie have talked about to kind of get through the heat this week?
NASA HATAOKA:   A sun umbrella, and using an ice bag and trying to stay away from the sun as much as possible.
THE MODERATOR:   Will your caddie be taking a cart at all or walking it?
NASA HATAOKA:   During the tournament my caddie says he'll carry the bag instead of using the cart, but I might have to convince him to think otherwise.
THE MODERATOR:   If you do have the chance to leap into Poppies Pond for the first time this week, what kind of jump would you do into the pond?
NASA HATAOKA:   Well, it's obviously very hot, so I definitely would be looking forward to the jump if I have a chance.  But I think it might be a big jump into the pond.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT