SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 23, 2007
Florent Serra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  Do you remember your last win over a Top 10 player?   
 FLORENT SERRA:  Oh, it was a long time ago.  No, against a Top 10 player?  No, I don't remember.  I think it was Monte-Carlo.  I beat last year Robredo, Blake on clay court in Monaco, and Berdych, but everything was in May.  I beat Robredo on grass court, and that's all.   
  
  Q.  Did you change your game after the last time you played James?   
 FLORENT SERRA:  I don't think I changed on my game, but I tried to be concentrate, focus on my first serve.  It was a good percentage.  Last week in Indian Wells it was not so good, and it was a tough match, also.   
 But I think that I played very good today.  My return is better, also, and when I have a good return I can concentrate on my game on the baseline and try to sit stronger on the ball.   
 I try to go to the net more, to the backhand of James, and I think it's a good match for me.  Also mistakes and it's better, of course.   
  
  Q.  Was it difficult to finish?  Here you've got a matchpoint, he serves an ace, then you have to sit down for ten minutes.   
 FLORENT SERRA:  Yeah, for three minutes -- I don't know what's happened with his wrist, but maybe cramp.  Yeah, it was on his serve, you know, matchpoint, and the opening serve is not easy.  Ace in the T, so...   
 On my serve I was tight, but he give me two forehand, and everything okay.   
  
  Q.  You mentioned James' backhand.  Did you sense he was struggling a little bit hitting aggressive shots with it?   
 FLORENT SERRA:  On his backhand you mean?   
  
  Q.  Yes.   
 FLORENT SERRA:  Yeah, because his forehand is very strong.  When he turns around his backhand and hit strong in the ball it's very difficult for me.  I have to be very down on my legs and to be quick.   
 But I try to put some spin to play high on his backhand, and he gave me some balls short and then tried to go to the net.   
 On my serve I tried to serve, also, and keep his backhand, and I think it helped me a little bit.   
 FastScripts by ASAP Sports....   
   
  End of FastScripts   
\   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT