BAYLOR UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 28, 2017
Blake Lynch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Texas - 38, Baylor - 7
BLAKE LYNCH: Yeah, it is fun.  In high school I played both ways, so I really just like to do whatever I can to help the team.
Q. Tell me about the pass that set up for you.
BLAKE LYNCH: Really Charlie just made a great throw and I made a great catch, and it just happened.
Q. How frustrating was it that their defense was pretty hard to move on?
BLAKE LYNCH: Yeah, I give a lot to credit to Texas defense.  I think they're a good defense, but ultimately I think we did a lot of things to hurt ourselves.
Q. Coach talked about the attitude of this team, but how tough is it to have lost 14 of 15 and not having been able to break through yet?
BLAKE LYNCH: Yeah, it's really tough.  I think the toughest thing about it is we know that we can win and we know that we can play with anybody, we're just not doing it.  I really think that we just need to get back in the film room and focus on the details.
Q. Are you feeling a lot of pressure right now to break through with that win?
BLAKE LYNCH: Yeah, I mean, you always feel pressure to win, especially which you're 0-8.  We go down to Lawrence, Kansas, next week, so every week we just have a positive attitude and try and come out with the win.
Q. To see the defense play the way you did against that Texas offense, how good was it to see the progress on that side of the ball?
BLAKE LYNCH: I think early defensively we came out and we played pretty good.  We tackled pretty well in the secondary.  We didn't give up any big plays.  I think from late third, early fourth, that's when we started breaking down in tackles and just giving up big plays.
Q. After getting so close last week, is this pretty disappointing?
BLAKE LYNCH: Definitely, it's disappointing to lose no matter who you lose to, but to lose to Texas is even more disappointing.
Q. With you now doing what you're doing, but then you catch a touchdown or what basically set up a touchdown, does that give you the itch to want to do that more, or are you all locked in on defense?
BLAKE LYNCH: Really I'm just doing whatever Coach Rhule asks me to do.  I like defense, I like offense.  But just really focusing on both.
Q. At the college level -- you can do that in high school.  Very few people have been able to master that in college.  What does that put on you, and how difficult or easy is that?
BLAKE LYNCH: I think as long as we know what to do and know the plays, I really don't think it's that hard.
Q. What's this team going to do?  That was a beating today; it didn't go well.
BLAKE LYNCH: I think tomorrow we're going to get back in the film room, we're going to watch the film, try to correct what we did wrong.  We've just got to execute.  Like the other players, they had good players, it wasn't that they were just better than us, it's just that we didn't execute.
Q. You're used to winning; how difficult is this to deal with?
BLAKE LYNCH: I mean, it's difficult to lose.  My senior year we didn't lose a game, and right now we're 0-8.  But I think ultimately no matter where you come from, to lose is heartbreaking.
Q. What's it like in the locker room right now?  What are people saying?
BLAKE LYNCH: They're devastated by this loss, but I feel like we have a positive mindset moving forward and going up to Lawrence, Kansas.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT