NCAA MEN'S 2ND & 3RD ROUNDS: COLUMBUS
March 19, 2015
Shannon Evans
Xavier Ford
Bobby Hurley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Buffalo student-athletes Shannon Evans and Xavier Ford.   Q.  I just wondered if you guys anticipate with the first trip to the NCAA are nerves any consideration for you.  XAVIER FORD: We've been prepared well.  We don't have that much nerves.  We understand that we're in a great opportunity, and it's a great chance to go out here and showcase our talents.  We're just blessed to be here on this national stage and to represent our school and to be representing Bobby Hurley.  We don't really have no nerves.  We've prepared the last few days.  We're going to go have fun, at the end of the day it's been a basketball game and we've been playing it our whole lives.   Q.  How important is it to really take care of the ball and avoid those big momentum swings that we always see in tournament games in a game like this?  SHANNON EVANS: West Virginia, they press a lot and they're real big and athletic.  So it's very important that we be strong with the ball and make great passes and just get in the offense as smoothly as possible.   XAVIER FORD: Like Shannon mentioned, just taking care of the ball.  We've got a good group of guards with Shannon Evans and Lamonte Bearden and Jarryn Skeete.  Our guards just going to do a good job of taking care of the ball to limit runs because they're going to make a run with the press and all the stuff they cause and limit the runs and handle it well.   Q.  You played much better in the last two or three weeks to get here.  What do you think that's been that maybe wasn't there before then?  SHANNON EVANS: I feel like we all bought into our system.  If you've been around us, you know like we're really joking type of group, and we love to be around each other and we're starting to play better as a team.  We all know our roles and know what we do best.  So we'll start playing more team basketball and sharing the basketball, getting great shots.  I feel like it's a combination of things that all came together at the right time, like we're on an eight-game winning streak.  And it all came because we're all playing together, we're all bought into the system and we all care for each other.   Q.  Your coach's experience in the NCAA Tournament as a player, does that factor in, does it give you comfort he's been in this kind of environment before and also just the second question, did you guys know who Bobby Hurley was when he was hired?  SHANNON EVANS: I've heard the name before.  I wasn't really familiar like what he had done, but as I got more further in my recruitment process, I did my research so I knew he was a great point guard.  And what was your first question again?   Q.  In terms of his experience.  SHANNON EVANS: Yeah, I mean, me and Coach Hurley we've had a great relationship.  He talks all about his NCAA championships and all the Final Four runs he has.  I know a lot of stories about that and he try to share his experiences with me.  So I feel I have a great knowledge of what he has done.   Q.  I'm just kind of wondering, what things has Coach Hurley done to turn around the program as quickly as he has?  Is there anything that you guys can pinpoint?  I know people have talked about he's been the aggressive and he's a good guy to play for, I'm wondering what else is there that he's done to turn around the program so quickly?  XAVIER FORD: Coach Hurley, he's very intense.  He comes from winning.  His father's a winner.  Coach K is a winner and he holds us accountable for winning.  It's a standard that's been set as I've mentioned by his father and Coach K.  And we always emphasize the value of the little things, the fundamentals, taking care of the ball, being unselfish.  He's just brought a winning attitude and unselfishness that we've all bought into and he also has a great coaching staff in Levi Watkins and they also do a great job preparing us for this type of moment.  So we're all happy to be playing for a guy like Coach Hurley.   Q.  What has changed about coach from last year to this year in terms of getting used to being a coach and kind of how he's running the program and stuff what do you guys notice about how he's changed or has he changed at all from year one to year two?  SHANNON EVANS: I think he's stayed consistent since day one.  He holds us accountable for winning.  He doesn't accept anything less than winning.  I feel like that came from his father and also Coach K.  He holds us accountable.  He installed the mindset of winning here at Buffalo.   XAVIER FORD: Could you repeat your question one more time, I'm sorry.   Q.  Did you notice any change or kind of how he's growing in the job?  XAVIER FORD: His first year he was kind of feeling his way into it.  First head coaching job.  And he was learning how to push our buttons.  We have some success and we have a real talented group this year and he picked up the intensity a lot this year.  He got more comfortable with us, learning how to push our buttons.  He knows what makes us tick and we know what makes him tick.  I would say this year he stepped up and have been more aggressive and confident in himself and we as players all notice and when we have a confident coach, it helps us be confident when we're out there performing.   Q.  Have you guys played any teams like West Virginia that has the bulk of the Devin Williams and Elijah Macon, like that?  SHANNON EVANS: We played Kentucky that's the best you can get.  The Harrison twins, they're pretty big, they're like 6'6".  Real fast.  Tyler Ulis, one of the top point guards in the nation.  So that press that Kentucky has is just as good as West Virginia has if not better.   Q.  When the brackets came out, you guys seemed to be the popular pick among a lot of people for a 12-5 upset.  How does that affect your mentality or your preparation going into the game?  SHANNON EVANS: We try not to listen to ESPN and Jay Bilas.  He picked us to win.  We try not to listen to that as much.  We try to stick to our principles and we know what we have to do to go out and win and we try to stay true to ourselves as well.   Q.  Can you talk about what can you take from the success you had in the first half against Kentucky, Wisconsin into these games this weekend?  XAVIER FORD: We realized we're playing at a neutral site, playing at Kentucky is one of the toughest places I've played in in my college career.  And we had the opportunity to go in there and know the league.  We're just going to go out there and try to put two halves together and stay confident with ourselves at the same time we know West Virginia is a good team and they're going to cause turnovers and go on a run and we just have to limit that run.  And us being at Kentucky and experiencing the atmosphere of a crowd in Wisconsin and understanding that the runs are going to come, we should be able to sustain a run if possible.   Q.  Juwan Staten back in the lineup for West Virginia, his ability to draw extra defenders in the lane a big reason why Mountaineers are number one in offensive rebounding.  Just the challenge that presents to you guys and Xavier, I guess, specifically, the job that you guys have to do and how important it is to keep them away from second-chance points?  XAVIER FORD: It's very important to keep them away for second chance points.  We understand that they're really good offensive rebounding team.  Guys like myself, Justin Moss and Will Regan, are going to do what we have to do on the backboard, but at the same time we're a good offensive rebounding team too.  So we understand they'll be crashing in.  And they're going to get some offensive rebounds, they're real good at it and it comes with the territory.  It's just limiting those offensive rebounds and us, bigs and guards, we're going to attack the offensive glass and try to force turnovers as well.   Q.  Generally does your coach talk a lot about his days as a player to try to get you guys familiar with situations, and have you heard any more or different stories from him this week leading up to the game in that regard?  SHANNON EVANS: I feel like I've heard all the stories from him and me and him had a great relationship and talked to him a lot in between classes and stuff.  So yeah, I think I've heard them all and I try to relate to the experiences as well.  Obviously they're not as big because he was at Duke and I'm at Buffalo.  So they're a high major program, so it's not as big.  But me and him relate in many ways.  So I feel like his experiences at Duke and Final Four and the national championship he won really affected me in a way.   Q.  Xavier, this is for you.  What did your performance in the MAC Championship winning that MVP and stepping up for Justin Moss who was limited.  What did your performance do for your confidence that you're taking into tomorrow?  XAVIER FORD: It really didn't do much.  I have confidence in myself as a player.  At the same time that MVP award, it wasn't only a single award.  My team had a part in that, too.  I feel that award could have been given to anybody.  Shannon Evans had an MVP performance that night, too.  So it was good to have that.  But at the same time that was more of a team thing.  So that MVP award was like an MVP team thing.  I mean, it's good for my confidence but at the same time it's good for everybody's confidence.   Q.  You mentioned playing Kentucky and how good they are.  Do you take certain comfort coming into a tournament like this knowing that you've pretty much played a team -- you won't face a tougher team, you may face very tough teams but you won't face a tougher team, is there a comfort level or something that you gain from that coming into this tournament?  SHANNON EVANS: Yeah, definitely.  We feel like we played the best of the best, Kentucky and Wisconsin.  So going to this tournament, we know that we can hang with the best.  So now, with us trying not to be content just winning the MAC Championship and come out here and make a run at it.   Q.  Has it been a little bit odd seeing how much attention is being paid to the program now?  Go back to the beginning of the season you had a hard time getting people in your building, now you have a city, people across the country are becoming more familiar with your school?  XAVIER FORD: We understand the territory that comes with winning and losing, nobody wants to be associated with a looser.  We knew we would be confident with ourselves because at the beginning of the season a lot of -- even our own paper and our own school paper said we'd be lucky to finish.  500 and we'll be mediocre in the pack.  Having Coach Hurley, he always uses stuff like that, any edge he can get to motivate us to do better, he'll present that to us and he presented that to us throughout the season.  So we understand that being a winner comes with a lot of stuff, accolades and media and stuff like that.  But at the same time we expected the success because Coach Hurley holds us to a high standard.  So again we're just happy to be here and to be able to keep putting mid-major schools on the map and put off our community in Buffalo and try to make a good run and make special things happen for our team and our players.   Q.  Staying on the Kentucky theme, with the success that you guys have had, what will it take for a team to finish the job against Kentucky, and do you think that given the teams out there, do you think that's going to happen?  XAVIER FORD: Are you asking about Kentucky winning?   Q.  What will it take to -- you guys had success for a half, what will it take for a team to finish that job?  XAVIER FORD: Luck.  (Laughter) It's like have you seen Space Jam?  It's like playing against the Monstars.  So you gotta do everything right against a team like that.  Everything right.  You can't have no mistakes.  It's basketball.  Any team could get beat on any given night.  But a team like that you would have to be doing everything right.  I don't know if anybody can answer that question.   Q.  Just wanted to ask about the press defense.  Have you guys faced anything like that in the MAC conference, and talking to Big 12 coaches throughout the season they said they tried seven or eight guys on defense during practice to make the guys move.  Have you guys practiced anything like that?  SHANNON EVANS: We definitely had, like, seven guys on defense as well.  I don't think we faced anything in our conference like that, because West Virginia is so big and athletic, we don't have anything like that in our conference.  But like I said, going back to when we played Kentucky, their press was pretty big, too.  They've got 6'6" guards up there, long and athletic.  So we kind of relate back to that.  We also watched film and we found ways we feel we can break it.  And we have really good guards.  Me and Lamonte and Jarryn Skeete are really quick and fast so hopefully we can break it ourselves.   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Coach.   COACH HURLEY: I'm obviously really excited to be here, what we accomplished at Buffalo, winning our conference tournament and getting a chance to play in the NCAAs for the first time in school history.  So just thrilled to be a part of the NCAA Tournament, and our players are soaking it all in and enjoying it.  We've had a few good practices and feel good about where we are and how we're playing right now at this time of year, after winning eight straight games, haven't lost in a month.  So I feel great coming into this.   Q.  Every time you mentioned the words NCAA Tournament, there's kind of like a grin or smile that comes to your face.  How does it feel to be back in it as a coach right now, how does it differ as a player, I know you haven't played the game yet?  COACH HURLEY: I'm excited for my players.  I know what they sacrificed and what they go through and how hard they've worked to get here and have had some peaks and valleys this year and had some difficult times that we've overcome.  And I know what it feels like, the excitement, the memories that you take from playing in this tournament and I'm glad that my players get to enjoy that and experience it.   Q.  When you were a player going into your first tournament game, how did you take the advice you were given by people who were telling you what to expect to actually be applicable compared to the environment, any nerves, was it something that clicked right away for you as a player?  COACH HURLEY: I grew up with the NCAA Tournament.  I watched Jordan hit the shot and Villanova beat Georgetown, N.C.  State beat Houston.  Those were my childhood memories.  For me it was trying to calm down.  So I'm going to try and be as composed and as calm with my team as possible.  I know that motivation to play is not going to be something that I'm concerned about. And so we'll try and just keep them, their emotions in check.  And I don't want them to feel uptight or play uptight because we're a very good offensive team in our league, one of the best offensive teams.  And we play very fast.  I want them to have fun playing and not feel like it's any different than any other game as much as I possibly can with them.   Q.  I know you went against Coach Huggins when you were in the tournament, when he took a team to the Final Four.  What have you known about Coach Huggins throughout your career playing and now coaching and what you see of him in this team that you guys are facing?  COACH HURLEY: I obviously have a ton of respect for all these accomplished and enjoyed watching his teams play because I respect teams that play defense and that are tough and his teams reflect that.  They're a team this year, I don't know if there's a team that gets after it any harder on the defensive end with their pressure and how physical they are and how they rebound.  So that's a great formula for winning a lot of basketball games.  And they don't stop.  They keep coming at you for 40 minutes.  And they've been in a great league and they've made some really good teams in that league look average this year.  So we have our work cut out for us.   Q.  What was it like those years you spent on the bench with Danny.  I say this with a smile on my face, what if anything did you learn from him?  COACH HURLEY: Dan gave me a great opportunity and it was a chance for he and I to spend a lot of time together, two guys that are very close.  We have a close relationship.  He built a high school program, St. Benedict's, and turned it into one of the best in the country, and he wanted to make a move to the college game and I just watched them.  I saw how he conducted his practices, how he recruited, how he built the program and he allowed me to have a voice and we worked very closely together and we're still constantly in communication almost daily during the season about our teams.  So it was special for me to have the opportunity to work for him.  I don't think I would be in this position if I didn't have that chance.   Q.  How much of an advantage is it for you guys that you don't need to have that one go-to scorer, that you have so many guys who can pick up the scoring slack if somebody has an off day or two guys have an off game?  COACH HURLEY: I think we have pretty good balance on offense.  And things usually start with Justin Moss and his physicality inside and his versatility to score inside and out.  And then our guards are kind of unpredictable in how they attack you and are very good off the bounce trying to create offense for us.  So we try and -- we have an eight-man rotation.  So we're not as obviously not as deep as West Virginia, but we do have guys that are capable of making plays at a number of positions.   Q.  Back to your brother Dan for a moment, any family bragging rights trending, bragging rights over your brother getting to the dance first?  COACH HURLEY: Not really.  It was one of the hardest conversations I had, like, this year with him after we won the MAC Championship Saturday night and before we played we tipped off at 7:30, I knew that they had lost a close game to Dayton and that probably meant they weren't going to get in the NCAA Tournament.  So that was affecting me.  I was thinking about that.  And then afterwards, to talk to Dan, knowing how disappointed he was that they were so close and on the verge of getting in the field and then just not making it, I was so excited for Buffalo and our players and the whole deal, but a big part of me was obviously upset and disappointed for him.   Q.  We spoke briefly a couple days ago about your message to the team, what have you told them over the last couple of days in preparation for tomorrow's game?  COACH HURLEY: Just to try and stay focused on not listening to what people are saying and who is projecting what to happen in the game and just stay consistent to our message and what we're talking about.  I also want them to have fun with this.  I mean, they put in so much work to get to this point and this is a once-in-a-lifetime experience.  And to soak it in and have as much fun with it as possible.  But be able to flip the switch when it's time to work, to work when it's time to work, when it's time to prepare, we're preparing and when the ball goes up, we've got to play fearlessly like we have the last month of the season.   Q.  Just a quick question, first of all, Justin Moss, what's his availability?  COACH HURLEY: We've been fortunate this week.  Last week we were under the gun with Justin, and he was somewhat limited in our semifinal game, and he made a big improvement in the final and we were able to play him more minutes.  He got a double-double in that game.  We monitored him very carefully this year.  We managed his repetitions carefully.  He's getting close to 100 percent.  And he'll obviously be out on the floor today and in our open practice.  And I would think by tomorrow that he's going to be very close to being himself.   Q.  You played a couple of heavyweights in Kentucky and Wisconsin.  Can you compare and contrast the task you've got at hand now with what you faced with those two?  COACH HURLEY: West Virginia is going to present every bit the same challenge that those two teams presented.  They're different, but they do certain things well that above anyone else in the country, turning teams over, offensive rebounding.  Their physicality and their depth.  And the other thing is they take you out of offense.  They don't really always let you run your offense because of how aggressively they trap.  So we practice a number of different things this week just to try and prepare for that.  But they're that type of physical team like Kentucky was, like Wisconsin was, and they're obviously one of the best teams in the country.   Q.  In terms of the way the game has evolved since you played it, is there any more premium on guard play than there was back in the '90s and if so what's the biggest difference in terms of in the tournament?  COACH HURLEY: I don't think a whole lot has changed in that regard.  It's always key when your season's on the line to have the right guys making decisions for you and making plays for you to extend your season.  As a coach, you go into a game where everything's on the line and if you have players that you trust at those positions with the ball in their hands creating and making plays, then you're going to have a good chance to win and advance.  I feel great about our guard play, even though we're really young starting a freshman, Lamonte Bearden, and Shannon Evans, a sophomore, those two have been through the wars in our league and are both very productive.  Shannon is a dynamic guard that can score and plays with great energy.  I mean, I could never play at the pace and the energy that that kid plays at.  It's amazing.  And then Lamonte for a freshman has such a good assist-to-turnover ratio and has great instincts.  He's a natural.  So I'm trusting those two guys tomorrow against West Virginia.   Q.  The fact that you were ahead of Kentucky and Wisconsin at the half, what do you take from that?  How much confidence does it give you especially being a first-time team here?  COACH HURLEY: Last year we lost three starters.  We lost the player of the year in the conference.  It was natural to assume that we would take a step back, even in our league.  And in individual workouts I kept watching Justin Moss just destroy people in the gym.  And then seeing what Shannon Evans, knowing he was going to be in a starting role this year, I knew he would take a big jump.  So even though the perception outside of our program was that we were going to take a step back, I didn't think we necessarily would.  And those games validated that for me, just being in those type of games I think prepared us to know that we could be such a good team.  And as a coaching staff, I said now like you showed us what you're capable of doing here, so maybe you shouldn't have done that because now we're going to ask for it and we're going to demand it the rest of the way. And I think those kind of games help you for when we're playing in our conference tournament and the championship game and in this type of game to know that we're capable of playing with those kinds of teams.   Q.  When you got the technical 55 seconds into the game you went on Twitter and made fun of yourself for it.  But in general, that fire you bring, have you had to check that or manage that at all?  COACH HURLEY: I kind of toe the line.  And last year it was just trying to figure out what I could get away with and what I can't.  I think this year I've done a better job of getting my message across and then knowing when to pull back.  And this is really not the setting in this tournament, where that's something that I'm going to be able to do, spend a lot of time with the officials. I know with how hard this game is going to be and how West Virginia is going to be coming after our players that I'm going to need to be completely focused on them and helping them get through this game in any way I can.   Q.  A lot's made of the 5 versus 12 matchup.  What's your take on why the 5 is so vulnerable and why the 12 has historically had success against the 5?  COACH HURLEY: I have no idea.  I mean, I keep seeing the stuff.  And I have to keep reminding our players, hey, you guys are not favored here.  West Virginia is from the Big 12, had a great season.  They're the 5 seed, you're the 12.  And you have a lot of people that think that we should win this game or have selected us.  And that's great.  I tell our guys, if someone picks against you, use it as motivation.  If someone picks you, don't listen to them and just stay focused on what we're doing.   Q.  Did you practice with seven guys on defense at all this week?  And then, West Virginia's traps and watching it on film, are they more different kinds of traps than any other team you've seen?  COACH HURLEY: Yes.  We did practice with multiple defenders.  And usually we have a guy sitting out and we have another walk-on that doesn't travel.  So as a matter of fact I was one of the defenders this morning. So we've been doing this a lot to try and assimilate what it's going to be like.  And we've talked to our players about being real physical on defense, even fouling so that we get used to the aggressive style of defense that we're going to face.  And then the traps come in a variety of different ways.  They could come in the back court.  They could come as soon as the ball is entered.  And actually before all that even happens, getting the ball in is an adventure against West Virginia because of how good they try and deny passes.  And then also they'll trap as you cross half court.  So it's very random and it's very unpredictable and hard and those are typically the pressure defenses that are the most effective.   Q.  Coaching in your first NCAA Tournament game feel anything like playing in your first NCAA Tournament game, and what are you doing to prepare for that moment tomorrow?  COACH HURLEY: Yeah, for me it was just trying to even bring myself back from the euphoria and how great I felt for our players Saturday night and for the school and the community and then just the responsibility of all the media and to make sure that we take advantage as a school of all the exposure we can.  And it's all positive.  So we want to get our message out about what our program's all about.  And we have a lot of good young players in the program.  So we want to do that.  So for me just managing my time.  I mean, I've been really, really scheduled out the last couple of days.  But find enough time to do what I need to do to prepare and get myself ready to coach the best game I could coach on Friday.   Q.  You mentioned Moss.  If you go back to the Kentucky game, when Moss threw it in Cauley-Stein's face.  Do you think that had any trickle-down effects confidence wise, toughness-wise?  COACH HURLEY: I just think that was a signature play for us this year and something that I tried to get a picture of it and I can't anywhere because I wanted to put it on the wall.  We just redid our locker room.  No one could find the picture.  I'm amazed that UK, we just couldn't get it.  But I think it shows that our players don't back down.  They don't get intimidated.  And that's showing me a lot how we played in that game, because they were playing like out of their mind at that point, they were annihilating teams.  So that was the first time that someone stepped to them like that and part of it was Justin.  I think we all feed off each other.  Shannon Evans, his energy, and Lamonte Bearden.  The guys get excited for what we're doing out there on the floor.   Q.  When your playing career ended you got away from the game a while.  Did you need that?  And what got you back into the game, what got you back into coaching?  And the second question, your players have described you as intense, and I'm wondering, do you see yourself as an intense coach?  Do you think you're more intense as a coach than you were as a player?  COACH HURLEY: Well, when my pro career ended, I was frustrated.  A little bit burnt out.  My dad was a coach.  I grew up with the game.  I worked as hard as I could work to get where I had gotten playing and it just didn't work out for me professionally.  I didn't achieve anything close to what I intended on and was very frustrated.  I had a lot of injuries and things. So I wanted to do something different.  I did that.  I always had the itch to coach and I understood the commitment and what it takes to coach and the time you need to invest.  And I was enjoying watching my children grow up and that was a part of it.  But then I knew I got to a point where I was either going to do it or not do it.  And it all fell into place with how my brother was in a transition and I trusted him going into a great situation with him.  I knew we would do a great job together.  So it all worked out.  And I wish I had done it sooner because I love doing it.  The time you spend in the gym with the guys, the same competitiveness I brought to the floor as a player, I think I bring as a coach.  So it replaces it.  And also you feel like you're helping kids.  And tournaments like this, days like this, it's worth it, because my players are experiencing what they're experiencing.   Q.  Rodell's given you good minutes for you off the bench, especially defensively.  With this eight game win streak he seems to have stepped it up on both wins, scoring more, he's getting more rebounds, 60 percent from the field.  What has he given you that maybe he didn't give you or what you didn't have earlier in the year?  COACH HURLEY: I think sometimes with kids, they just start to get it.  Rodell has gotten it.  He isn't identifying himself as being a scorer.  Scoring just happens naturally as a part of the game as it's flown with him.  But at some points early in the year you might look at his stat line and see that he had two points or four points and that would bother him.  And I think we broke through and he's broken through to just say you know what, I'm going to guard, I'm going to play with great energy.  I'm going to rebound and during the course of the game he's going to put up his numbers that he puts up.  He's been a difference-maker, because we didn't have anyone like him last year on our team.  And being 6'5", 215, very physical, and playing way above the rim, he adds a different dimension on our team.   Q.  When a player of your caliber played on this kind of stage and yet you know one bad night sends you home, how do the great players rise to the occasion, what was in you and guys you played with that enabled you to succeed at this level and this one-and-done situation?  COACH HURLEY: I just said to myself, I'm not going to let my teammates down and I obviously wasn't perfect.  And I had my games to -- my freshman year in the championship game, I was brutal in that one.  So I wasn't always perfect.  But you played with teammates that you trusted would be playing at a high level with you.  And that gave you confidence to play better.  So Laettner, I knew he would be there, and knew Grant Hill would be showing up and these guys would be there with me and it makes my job easier to have the confidence in my teammates going into games like this.   Q.  UB's style of play, it's up-tempo and it reminds me I guess of watching the Duke teams play.  Do you see any of those similarities and how is it similar or different?  COACH HURLEY: Coach K impacted my coaching philosophy in that regard.  He demanded we play defense at the highest level and get after it.  If you didn't, then you weren't playing.  But on the flipside it enabled us to create turnovers, get out in the open court and play an exciting style.  And I enjoyed it as a player.  I know my players like getting up and down the court.  And we're in the top, I guess, 25 nationally in pace of play.  And at the same time our guys have taken care of the ball, and we're turning the ball over at a good clip, considering we play as fast as we do.  I feel good about how we play.  I know that as we recruit and we try and bring players into the program, they want to play in an open game, in a game that resembles what it's going to be like professionally for some of them down the road if they work and get to that point.   Q.  You talk about Kentucky, one of your players said it was like playing in Space Jam and said it would take luck.  Having been in a situation like that, playing UNLV in '91?  What will it take for a team to beat Kentucky this year?  COACH HURLEY: It's scary when you see it on film.  And we broke it down and we had their complete attention after like the first 30 seconds of the video.  And it's just dunks and their athleticism, their length, if you allow them to set their defense against you the whole game, then you're in big trouble because there's nowhere to go in the court with their size and mobility.  They're going to have to not shoot well.  You're going to have to take care of the ball and not let them go on the runs that they go on during the course of the game. And then you're just going to hope that they're not having their best game.  And you could put what we did against UNLV, I think, was we made a statement early in the game.  We jumped them like 14-4 in the first four minutes and we said, hey, we're here to play.  And we kept it a very tight game throughout.  And then at the very end we made it a one-possession game where they started feeling the pressure of the undefeated season and we were able to make enough plays at the end to win it.   Q.  [Indiscernible] for the program how much of a bump do you see in recruiting, particularly in New York state?  COACH HURLEY: It's exciting.  We have some exciting kids coming in that will join our program that I think are going to even take it to another level and this is a platform to really start getting your brand out and for recruits to see your team play and how you play.  And so it's important.  It's not like right in the forefront of my mind right now because I'm kind of in the moment of coaching this game but it's definitely something that's going to help our situation long term.   Q.  Are any of your family members coming tomorrow, your dad, your mom, your brother, anybody coming?  COACH HURLEY: My brother advanced in the NIT, beat Iona the other night.  So they'll be traveling to Stanford.  So he won't be able to be there.  But my mom and dad are going to be making the trip in for the game.   Q.  I saw you had a ring on, I think it might be from your first championship.  I was curious why you had it on, do you wear it all the time and why so?  COACH HURLEY: I really didn't wear it last year my first year at all when I coached.  When we went to Kentucky before that game I said, I think I need something extra here for my confidence to go into that place.  And so I put it on as a subtle reminder of like what I used to be capable of doing to try and build my confidence and boost it as much as I could for my team.  And then when we played well there, I said, all right, let's stick with it.  And since then I've worn it for every game and every road trip.  I just want the kids to keep seeing it, too.  We're getting rings, too, and our athletic director, Danny White, is in the back there they now want rings that are sort of like this with the diamonds and the way -- so that's what you have to look forward to because they've seen this now.  This is our repeat, the year we repeated it's a combination of both years, yeah, for both years.   Q.  A lot of coaches that come up and come through this platform in the MAC have said a lot of the pressure, particularly people like you that have played in bigger colleges said the pressure is so much different at this level to get here than it is at Duke or wherever.  Wanted to get your reaction to that.  Is that true?  Maybe not pressure but just a different level.  And what do you go through?  COACH HURLEY: It's fair.  Our league is so under rated.  The MAC was rated number 10 in the RPI, ahead of some other multi-bid leagues this year, so that just tells you the quality of the competition in our league.  But it really came down to, for us, knowing that we would have had a very difficult chance getting an at-large.  We knew and felt the pressure.  I felt the pressure.  I tried to shield our players from feeling that as much as possible.  But knowing that, I think it prepares you in a way for this moment because we've already been in that position.  Some of the other high major schools have built their resumé and even though they're going to play their conference tournament that hard, they already know they're in the field.  We weren't sure about that.  And we attacked our conference tournament like that was our chance to play in the tournament.   Q.  With regard to tempo on offense, that's when you're going at your best, West Virginia's defense at its best really speeds teams up.  What are the ways you stay in character for you guys on offense and not slow down but also not facilitate them?  COACH HURLEY: I mean, they're so good and physical and they're pressing, and so taking care of it, and then just having five guys on the same page, because as much as I'll say, it's Shannon Evans and Lamonte Bearden's responsibility to handle pressure.  Those two guys can't beat it alone.  We all have to be ready to help and move the ball quick.  At times we'll have to try to beat it to score and if they get back properly then we're going to have to pull it out and run some clock and we'll do a variety of things to try and handle it.  But this game comes down to more of me trusting my guys that they're going to be able to improvise and make some plays, because we run a lot of set plays and I just have a really strong feeling we're not going to be allowed to run a lot of them and that's based on the film that I'm watching and seeing how West Virginia has played a lot of other really good teams this year.   THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Coach.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT