WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: SECOND ROUND, POOL 2
March 16, 2013
Edwin Rodriguez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your lineup, obviously an important game, but to keep guys rested what are you going to do?
EDWIN RODRIGUEZ:   Well, Yadier Molina is going to be the only one not playing today.   Pagan, Beltran and Rios, they're going to start the game, and then after that we'll go with maybe giving them a break in the middle of the game or something because there's a possibility that we might play tomorrow, so we're thinking about that. 

Q.   What's your take on this format and this game and the stakes and the motivation?   Obviously there's significance to play the game, but yet so much of it seems like would be about setting things up correctly for you for San Francisco. 
EDWIN RODRIGUEZ:   Yeah, that's part of the nature of the tournament.   And sometimes we feel like we have to rush everything because Spring Training is still going on.   Yeah, it's part of the nature of the tournament.   We have to play with that and accept it, but at the same time we have to be very careful not to push the players when they're a little bit tired like some of the guys.   We just finished playing nine innings less than 12 hours ago, and they're still in Spring Training for them. 

Q.   Talk about the atmosphere, music in the stands, the chanting at these international events.   Could that ever work in the Big Leagues? 
EDWIN RODRIGUEZ:   I think that it would work depending on where you're at, but I think the Latin Americans and Hispanic culture is more involved, more noisy places, more music, they're more involved emotionally in the game, and that's what we are.   I mean, they transfer that to the game. 
In the United States, Americans are a little more under control, if you can call it that maybe.   And they kind of control themselves a little bit more. 

Q.   Did this building feel a little bit like you might have been in San Juan or other places? 
EDWIN RODRIGUEZ:   Yes, yes.   We already talked about that.   Even I was talking to Tony Peña and the other players from Dominican, and it did feel like we were back in San Juan again playing that first round. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT