PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 15, 2005
Tatiana Golovin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Tatiana. 


Q.  How frustrating was that for you out there based on how you've played thus far? 

TATIANA GOLOVIN:  It's very annoying to lose a match like this because, you know, you feel like you're up.  I have points 5-3 to go up in the second, then I could be up 3-Love in the third, and you never know how the match is going to turn around if I win those points.  It's definitely very frustrating.  She's a very tough player to play.  She runs down everything.  She's aggressive on every ball basically.  So she's a great player.  And to me, I feel like I need to play more of these kind of matches to really get better. 

Q.  You played in extreme conditions here.  Today was almost ideal. 

TATIANA GOLOVIN:  Yeah, it wasn't very hot at all.  So we can't really complain on the weather.  It was just a bit windy sometimes during the match.  But, I mean, that goes for both players.  I think the conditions were actually pretty nice. 

Q.  What is it specifically that she frustrated you with, especially in the second and third? 

TATIANA GOLOVIN:  You know, I think I started off really well the first set.  I played very well.  You know, just it's tough to always keep the same level up.  You know, normally if I would play like this against another like Top 20, 30 player, I would win the match.  But these are Top 10 players, and the difference is there.  You have to keep that level all the time.  I think I haven't played that many matches against top players.  You know, I just have to get used to it and really I guess try to keep the same level. 

Q.  Does it come out as a positive experience?

TATIANA GOLOVIN:  Totally.  It's completely positive, you know, because I feel like, you know, I'm just a couple games away.  I think she was really happy when she won that third set because, you know, she could feel that I was there and I have every chance.  So to me it's definitely positive.  But I just finished like 15 minutes ago, so obviously I'm upset about it. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT