WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2004
Tatiana Golovin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Good afternoon, everyone.  Tatiana Golovin for you.  
 
 
Q.  Tell us all about appearing on Centre Court against the best player in the world. 
 
TATIANA GOLOVIN:  It was amazing, really.  You know, I thought I was going to be a little bit more nervous than I was, but I felt really good out there.  I think that's a big improvement for me.  I'm getting used to the big courts.  I don't think I played that bad.  I still have a lot of things to work on.  I'm just happy already to be in the fourth round, playing on Centre Court for my first time.  So it's a good experience.  
 
Q.  Four game points to go ahead in the second set. 
 
TATIANA GOLOVIN:  Yeah, I think I had pretty much lot of chances.  I didn't serve -- I didn't have that many, I think, first serves in.  So I think that kind of -- that didn't help me a lot.  But otherwise, no, I felt that I could play with her, you know.  Just a few more points and I -- the score would be tighter.  
 
Q.  Even in defeat, do you feel as if you've gone beyond any expectations you had coming into the tournament?
 
TATIANA GOLOVIN:  You know, I think I won the matches I was supposed to win, really.  You know, I played well.  You know, playing Serena, of course, beating her for the first time, would be really amazing.  But I'll do it next time.  So, like I said, I'll be happy.  I'm happy, you know, being in the fourth round.  
 
Q.  What's it like?  There she is.  Is she frightening?  Impressive?  Awesome?
 
TATIANA GOLOVIN:  No, it's not that bad really (laughter).  She's just appear like any other, you know, player.  She makes mistakes, she hits winners.  Just got to get used it and, you know, improve, you know, work hard, continue to work hard. 
 
Q.  What was it like dealing with that weight of shot? 
 
TATIANA GOLOVIN:  Uhm, I think it's more that she hits deep, so it's kind of tough to, you know, do anything with the ball.  I didn't feel like I was really overpowered, though.  I mean, obviously the serve, she got some good serves in.  
 
Q.  Were you aware she broke the Wimbledon serve record?
 
TATIANA GOLOVIN:  Really?  
 
Q.  126 miles an hour, the fastest at Wimbledon. 
 
TATIANA GOLOVIN:  Good for her. 
 
Q.  Were you aware of that?
 
TATIANA GOLOVIN:  No. 
 
Q.  But you had an idea she was serving pretty big?
 
TATIANA GOLOVIN:  Yeah, obviously.  She's a strong girl. 
 
Q.  Have you ever come up against serves like that on grass before?
 
TATIANA GOLOVIN:  Probably not.  No, it's my first pro tournament on grass, so.  
 
Q.  You've had this odyssey from Russia to France to the United States.  It's sort of a triple play.  You don't know much about Russia, I gather. 
 
TATIANA GOLOVIN:  (Shaking head.) 
 
Q.  France and the United States, is that a good balance?
 
TATIANA GOLOVIN:  I think I'm really lucky, you know, to be able to live in both, you know, to know both cultures.  But I definitely feel more French.  But like I said, I'm very lucky because I get to meet a lot of new people.  I can speak both languages, and that helps a lot.  You get the humor of both, so I feel very lucky.  
 
Q.  Where do you consider your permanent residence?
 
TATIANA GOLOVIN:  Paris.  
 
Q.  Is it correct you've been selected for the Fed Cup, is that right?
 
TATIANA GOLOVIN:  I think the selection hasn't been made yet.  I think they're supposed to say it today.  
 
Q.  My mobile phone says it's been made. 
 
TATIANA GOLOVIN:  Okay.  Then, yeah.  And the Olympics, too, so.  
 
Q.  Must be very pleased with that?
 
TATIANA GOLOVIN:  Very, very pleased.  I'm very excited about that.  You know, like I said, I don't know how my year can really get any better.  
 
Q.  Is it hard to take everything in with so much happening in such a short stretch of time?
 
TATIANA GOLOVIN:  You don't really realize, honestly.  Like I just kind of want to, you know, step back and look from somebody else's point of view and be like, "This is what I am."  Everything goes so fast, you really don't realize.  I think that's kind of a shame, too, because it just goes way too fast.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT