ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY AMERICAN EXPRESS
August 17, 2007
Tatiana Golovin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  Congratulations on your win.   
 TATIANA GOLOVIN:  Thanks.   
  
  Q.  Second set you were getting frustrated.  I think, in the third set it was the other player.  At one point when it was 5-4, you just changed, turned everything around and started taking the games 40-Love, 40-Love.  Anything happen in your mind there, or did it just happen?   
 TATIANA GOLOVIN:  I think just the whole match from the start was really tough because we were both struggling.  We couldn't get our rhythm or play our games.  I think we were both bothering each other.  The wind didn't help at all.  It was just a matter of her getting the ball back in.   
 And I wanted her to finish the match by, you know, her playing well.  I tried to cut down the unforced errors and she started making mistakes after that.  And she got into a bad momentum and she never really stopped.  It was more of a mental match, than it was tennis-wise, because tennis-wise it wasn't that great.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel both of you may have rushed the points at the beginning?  Like, let's just get this point over with?  I noticed in the end, especially third set, you were more careful.  Looked like you were thinking where to place it rather than just finish the point?   
 TATIANA GOLOVIN:  Absolutely.  That's a really good analysis.  No, I think just because I played really well yesterday even with the wind.  I kind of thought I was going to be able to do the same thing today.   
 Unfortunately, she kind of, you know, made me do a bit more mistakes, and I think we did rush a little bit.  Especially like I said with the wind, we were missing by a little bit.  A lot of break chances in the first set that I didn't convert.  So I kind of tried to focus on that in the second.   
 In the end I was like you need to play smart you're not going to be able to overpower her, you're making mistakes, it's windy.  So you just need to get the ball in, make her make the mistake and run everywhere and be strong mentally, and that's what happened.   
  
  Q.  Just wondering, at Wimbledon everyone was making a big deal of the bike shorts that you were wearing that were red.  And I see today you're wearing a red shirt.  I was just wondering was there any red in your outfit today in the match?   
 TATIANA GOLOVIN:  Was there any what?   
  
  Q.  Red?   
 TATIANA GOLOVIN:  You didn't see the red shorts today on the court?   
  
  Q.  I didn't see them.   
 TATIAN GOLOVIN:  You're not looking properly.  And it's windy so you should be able to see it.   
  
  Q.  Is that still a superstition that you're still carrying?   
 TATIANA GOLOVIN:  No, superstition, it just goes with the outfit.  I don't have a choice.   
  
  Q.  May we expect the same thing in tomorrow's match?   
 TATIANA GOLOVIN:  Absolutely.  It's winning, so I'm keeping it.   
  
  Q.  Thanks.  How's your health holding up this week in light of last week?   
 TATIANA GOLOVIN:  Much better.  I think the fact that I am not playing doubles.  I'm just focusing on the singles and really taking the time to rest after my match has really been helping me.  Especially I had a, you know, three matches that were pretty, pretty short, I guess.  And that definitely goes to my advantage.   
  
  Q.  Are you getting some treatments on your hamstring?   
 TATIANA GOLOVIN:  Every day, actually.  I just started, you know, I stopped the medicine, so it's definitely holding up.  But I think you know when you win it's always - your body always reacts better.  But definitely just stay fit for the US Open after.   
  
  Q.  Do you think she was fully fit today?   
 TATIANA GOLOVIN:  No, I don't think so, because she -- I mean, from her first serve in the first game, you know, she hit a second serve and she was touching her stomach.  So definitely kind of just she wasn't a hundred percent.   
 But having said that, you know, she played -- she kind of won the first set 6-2, and she was hitting her shots.  You know, she played her match.  I don't know if it really bothered her or not.   
 I don't think either of us really played that great.  I don't know if it was because she was injured or not.   
  
  Q.  Is anybody on the tour 100%?   
 TATIANA GOLOVIN:  That's exactly what I'm saying.  Nobody is ever 100% fit.  That's why not the same players win all the tournaments, because you win a tournament, means you're the best prepared in that week, and you're the best player of that week.  So, we all have injuries all the time.   
  
  Q.  What are your expectations about the US Open?   
 TATIANA GOLOVIN:  I don't know.  I haven't really thought about it, to be honest.  Definitely it's a big tournament, have great memories from last year.  And so far I'm really trying to focus this week.  Definitely, I think if I can play well, I can go far with the Open.   
  
  Q.  Have you thought about your round -- your match up in the next round with potentially Jankovic?   
 TATIANA GOLOVIN:  Well, I'm trying to enjoy the win today.  But definitely I know that she's up.  Oh, 5-All (smiling).   
 So, yeah, Jankovic or Razzano, I know Virginie's been playing very well.  She beat some very good players and Jankovic is No. 3 in the world.  So either way it's going to be tough.  It's been windy every day.  So it's really tough.  You're going to win with your tennis game, you have to go out there and fight physically and be strong mentally.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT