AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 26, 2004
Tatiana Golovin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Tatiana.  
 
 
Q.  What was that like out there today for you? 
 
TATIANA GOLOVIN:  You know, I'm a little disappointed about my match.  I wasn't feeling so well.  I wasn't really moving, and she was bothering me with her slices.  But otherwise, the atmosphere was unbelievable.  Playing on the Vodafone was amazing, the crowd was great.  Overall I'm pleased. 
 
Q.  What was wrong?  Were you feeling sick? 
 
TATIANA GOLOVIN:  No, no, no.  I think I was getting a little tired.  It's my second week.  I wasn't moving very well and I had to play my best tennis against her if I wanted to win, and it didn't really happen.  
 
Q.  Can you talk a bit about your goals coming into this event, where you are, how you're feeling about that match? 
 
TATIANA GOLOVIN:  Oh, my goal was to get like one or two rounds.  So it's great that I lost in the fourth.  But otherwise right now, I don't know.  I will just probably go home, take a few days off, and see about my schedule.  It hasn't really been made yet.  
 
Q.  You're saying you're going to go home.  You were entered into the Juniors, as well. 
 
TATIANA GOLOVIN:  I was, but I pulled out.  
 
Q.  Probably a relief.  Feeling tired? 
 
TATIANA GOLOVIN:  Well, I mean, no, I don't really think so because -- you know, if I didn't do so well in the main draw, I probably would have played Juniors.  But since I made it to the fourth round, probably up close to hundreds now, I think my main goal is playing the adults. 
 
Q.  So you think as you progress now, you're more playing on the main tour than the junior events?
 
TATIANA GOLOVIN:  Oh, yeah, definitely, definitely.  I'm probably going to play the French Open Juniors, but otherwise I'll be concentrating on the WTA.  
 
Q.  What would be an ideal schedule for you, say if there is no age eligibility question?  How many tournaments would you want to play?
 
TATIANA GOLOVIN:  I don't know.  I guess just like all the other girls, probably around, you know -- I'm not really sure.  I didn't really have check how many tournaments I'm supposed to play.  But get to play the big tournaments, the majors, you know, just to get my ranking up, however many it takes.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT