ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY AMERICAN EXPRESS
August 15, 2007
Tatiana Golovin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  Were you happy with the way you played today?   
 TATIANA GOLOVIN:  Overall, yes.  I think it was a lot of good things.  A lot of things that were not as good.  But overall I think it was a solid match.  She's definitely a very good player.  She's going to be probably a lot better with time.   
 And I played her in Charleston one time on clay, so I kind of knew what I had to do.  And I think today was really a match that you could see whenever I was controlling the points and stepping in, I would win the points.  And if I was just a little bit, you know, my back foot, she would kind of come in and really be aggressive.  So I think it was a really good match for me today.   
  
  Q.  Do you like where your game's at knight right now in general?   
 TATIANA GOLOVIN:  I think it's getting better every day.  I think I'm improving little by little.  Physically I'm feeling okay, so that's a really big thing for me.  And, you know, I'm just taking it really match by match, and trying to just kind of enjoy myself out there and really try to make end the year very well.   
  
  Q.  How's the hamstring?  I know you pulled out, right, last week in L. A.?   
 TATIANA GOLOVIN:  Yeah, it's um -- I've been treating it.  It's - it's all right.  It hasn't really been bothering me.  But like I said, my body's been kind of sensitive the last couple of weeks so I'm really taking care of it.   
  
  Q.  What parts of your game do you specifically want to improve on right now?   
 TATIANA GOLOVIN:  I think it's just, overall everything, obviously.  But it's more just gaining the confidence back that I had in the beginning of the year.  And just really, you know, being aggressive and not being scared to hit my shots.  And I served very well today, so I think that kind of helped me.  So it's stay focused on my serve, use my forehand, just a little bit of everything, really.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about working with Mats?  It's been two matches now, couple of days?   
 TATIANA GOLOVIN:  Excuse me?   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about what it's been like working with Mats this week?   
 TATIANA GOLOVIN:  It's been awesome.  We've really been enjoying it so far.  He's a great guy.  He's been giving me a little bit of advice.  And he came on court today, even though he's not really for it, I'm not really for it.  But we try to -- we're still kind of in the process of getting to know each other.   
 So I think it was kind of a practice and more to see how I felt on the court, you know, when you're down and you come back.  It wasn't even coaching, it was just figure out how I feel out there.  He's just been awesome, he's been great.  He's been telling me stories about the way he's been playing.  Just a lot of fun.   
  
  Q.  How has he been playing?   
 TATIANA GOLOVIN:  It's more you know, like the way he kind of took on a match.  How was his mentality, you know.  And the way he kind of handled a match, and I think that's kind of what I need to know.   
  
  Q.  Do you normally use the on-court coaching?   
 TATIANA GOLOVIN:  Never.   
  
  Q.  So is it -- does it create a difference in a match when you can call down someone like Mats Wilander who has won so many Grand Slams?  Is that in itself a psychological edge, do you think because your opponent sees that?   
 TATIANA GOLOVIN:  We don't really think about it.  Like I said, it was more him trying to figure out how I feel on the court and this was kind of the best time to do it.   
 He's not really for the on-court coaching, I'm not for the on-court coaching at all.  It was really just try to see how it is.  Like everyone said, tennis is an individual sport.  We need to figure out what to do by ourself on the court.  But this was more sort of a trial thing.   
  
  Q.  What are the main things you two plan to work on in your game?   
 TATIANA GOLOVIN:  I think it's going to be tactical and mental and how I handle the points.  How I play the big points.  Not making the mistakes.  Not making the stupid mistakes, you know, because that can cost you the match.  And like I said, the experience.  He's been, wherever I'm going, he's been there already.  So definitely is going to help me in that area.   
  
  Q.  Schiavone next.  Can you talk about that match a bit?   
 TATIANA GOLOVIN:  Really bad memory about that match from last time I played her in Fed Cup.  So definitely looking for revenge.  But on the other side it's a new day, it's a new match.  Obviously, she's playing a lot better.   
 She's won that tournament a couple of weeks ago, and she beat Dementieva, so she must be playing really well.  It's going to be really tough.  It's going to be a battle.  And I think we both know each other's game quite well, so it's going to be really tough mentally.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT