US OPEN
September 6, 2006
Tatiana Golovin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  Q. You guys grew up together in Florida. Were you close when you were younger?TATIANA GOLOVIN: Yeah, we were pretty close 'cause we were only really like the 7 and 8 year olds in the academy who played already that well at such a young age. We definitely shared a lot of things when we were younger. Q. Is it tough to go out there and play somebody you kind of grew up with?TATIANA GOLOVIN: Not really 'cause we're not as close anymore now. So, you know, I was just excited to be in the quarters and, you know, just happy to be there and be able to compete and do things that I love. Didn't really matter who I was playing against.  Q. You give her an awful lot of trouble. What is it about your game particularly, do you think, that makes you hard for her to put away? TATIANA GOLOVIN: Uhm, I don't know. I guess I why don't you ask her?I really don't know because we've always had tough matches. Like I remember when I was young, she always used to beat me like 0 and 0. You know, when I started playing on the tour, she we always had like really tough three setters. It was always really tough matches. I think it's just because I'm fighting all the time and I try to get the balls back and I pressured her forehand with my forehand, which is my best shot. You know, I think my serve kind of let me down today. I didn't serve as well as I did for the past, you know, ten days. Just I think it's a little bit of everything. Mentally, I'm sure she doesn't really like to play me. Q. Can you talk about the last time you played. I was at that match in Key Biscayne. Do you remember obviously I'm sure you remember but your feelings leaving that match? Was there any special feeling playing her again tonight? TATIANA GOLOVIN: Uhm, you know, like I I guess it could have kind of been like a little revenge night match, it's a big tournament. It's already in the quarters so it's a good result. But like I said, I think it was just different atmosphere. You know, I think she played she played well. It was really different. You know, obviously I wanted to beat her because I always lost to her and it was always tight. I want to do well against her. But, you know, I just hope I can kind of finish a match without actually have any problems with my feet, you know what I mean? I took off my shoe, it's soaked in blood, I'm like, Oh, my God. It's just, you know, bad luck... Q. Did you ever get a chance to speak with her...TATIANA GOLOVIN: Showed her my blister, yeah?  Q. Were you able to discuss it? Were there hard feelings about it?TATIANA GOLOVIN: What happened in Miami?  Q. Yeah. TATIANA GOLOVIN: There wasn't really much to talk about. She is the way she is. You know, I'm not here to judge. I'm not here I mean, we know each other. We're friends, but we're not gonna discuss about there was really nothing to discuss, you know, so... Q. What about the pace of play? It seemed like you had different styles when it comes to serving and speed that you like to play with?TATIANA GOLOVIN: Yeah, she takes her time a lot. It's kind of it's pretty it's frustrating because she really imposes her pace so it's really up to the opponent to really concentrate and not let that bother you. But, you know, she's got really big shots. You kind of think when she focuses, she really gets the ball in. It's really tough to beat her and to actually play your own game.  Q. She seemed to really raise her level in the tiebreaks. Is that what separates her from a lot of the other players, is that ability to take it up a notch? TATIANA GOLOVIN: I definitely think that separates her, how she handles mentally the tough situations. Like she's really tough. And even I remember from the other matches, even if you're up, she never gives up and she actually even plays better when she's down. It's definitely always tough. I think in the tiebreaker, first tiebreaker, it really could have gone either way. With that let call, was kind of...But, you know, she does it. I think one of her biggest weapons is definitely her mental side of the game.  Q. Was she making a lot of noise out there? Is that what you were talking to the umpire about?TATIANA GOLOVIN: Yeah, it was kind of a little loud out there. It is kind of distracting. You don't need to be screaming that loud. It's okay to grunt, but you don't have to, you know, be that loud (smiling). Like I don't think the ball actually goes faster if she's grunting, so... I don't know.  Q. Do you think this result will propel you, getting to the quarterfinals here will help propel you as you go forward?TATIANA GOLOVIN: I hope so. I mean, after what happened with my ankle, you know, it took a lot of hard work to get back into shape and start playing well again. Definitely brought me a lot of confidence. New York is so special for me so I'm so happy that I got to the quarters. I played pretty well today. Like the crowd was amazing. It was full at the end. With the music, it's just such a special ambiance. It's a lot of fun. So I hope, you know, I'll learn from this match and I'll be able to, you know, get better as time goes on. Q. How much time did you miss with the ankle? TATIANA GOLOVIN: Pretty much from I fully recovered after Wimbledon. I think, you know, I played the French and Wimbledon, but I shouldn't have. It was just because I wanted to get back on court. But everybody was telling me I shouldn't. So definitely after Wimbledon was when I actually was able to practice.  Q. Can you talk about the second set tiebreaker. Just one of those things? TATIANA GOLOVIN: Yeah, I think I just kind of lost my focus. She hit a couple good shots and I was never really able to get back into it. You know, like you guys said, like she's really tough out there. It's hard to come back when you're, you know, 3 , 4 , 5 Love down. I tried my best. But she hit some good shots in the tiebreaker.FastScripts by ASAP Sports... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT