DAVIS CUP BY BNP PARIBAS WORLD GROUP QUARTERFINALS: FRANCE v U.S.A.
April 3, 2012
Mike Bryan
Bob Bryan
Jim Courier
Ryan Harrison
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   (Through translation.)   You said yesterday you had an idea of which player would replace Monfils.   Now that you know it's Simon, were you surprised?
CAPTAIN COURIER:   No, we were not surprised.   We thought there was a pretty good chance that either Simon or Gasquet would be involved at some point.
So, no, we're not surprised.

Q.   (Through translation.)   For Ryan, it's going to be your first time in the Davis Cup.   What do you feel?
RYAN HARRISON:   Obviously excited.   Ready to get out there and to part of the experience.   I'm looking forward to it.

Q.   (Through translation.)   For you Ryan, what is your relationship with clay?   Have you played a long time on this surface?
RYAN HARRISON:   I love to play on clay.   Where I I grew up in Louisiana I had 12 clay courts, and I grew up playing, so I'm very comfortable sliding and I like playing on it.   It's going to be something that helps my game.

Q.   (Through translation.)   What are the differences between European clay and the American clay?
CAPTAIN COURIER:   The color.   (Laughter.)
RYAN HARRISON:   I think obviously it has its differences.   American clay I think is a little chunkier and green clay is not quite as quick on hot days.   So it will get really quick on a hot day, which is not a bad thing.
I think that it's just a tradition and the clay courts are much more well kept up here, much more well‑kept.

Q.   (Through translation.)   Again for you, Ryan, the fact the playing Jo‑Wilfried Tsonga who is No. 1 in France, does it take away some pressure because you're going to start with him?
RYAN HARRISON:   Obviously Jo is a great player and he's a very established player on the tour, but I think that especially in a Davis Cup situation where you're playing for your country every match is very important.
I'm just excited for the opportunity.   It's going to be a fun match.

Q.   (Through translation.)   Question to the Bryan brothers.   You won doubles here in 2007 also in this tournament, so do you feel you're the favorite for this doubles match?
MIKE BRYAN:   Yeah, we're pretty comfortable.   We've been playing here for ten years and played some of our best tennis here on this center court.
I don't know.   We've played Llodra for Grand Slam titles... (indiscernible.)

Q.   (Through translation.)   Jim, you chose your team very early in comparison to the French team.   Do you think it's important for the players to know a long time in advance if they're going to play?
CAPTAIN COURIER:   I don't think it really matters.   I think what matters is the players are prepared on Thursday night in their mind and they're ready to played Friday, Saturday, Sunday.
I wouldn't put too much weight into when things happen.

Q.   (Through translation.)   Did you chose Ryan because you knew he grew up on clay?   Was that a factor in your choice?
CAPTAIN COURIER:   A lot factors in the choice.   Ryan was the best man for the job.   That's why he's here.

Q.   John, with Mardy not here, does that change your mindset, your mentality, your approach now to Friday?
JOHN ISNER:   No, I don't think so.   I went into this tie thinking I was going to be No. 2, the No. 2 player, but obviously now I'm the No. 1.
It doesn't change anything.   I got to go out there on Friday and try to win a match for us no matter who I'm playing.
For me, it's still the same.

Q.   Ryan, for you, can you remember what you were doing when Jim called you and asked you to come to this and what your plans for this week would have been and what your turnaround time was?
RYAN HARRISON:   I was driving home from the golf course whenever he called me.   Fortunately for me I started practicing early after Miami and I was already planning on playing Houston, and so I was already playing and training to be on the clay.
So it kind of worked well along with my preparation whenever I had to change to come here.   Obviously I was excited for the opportunity.
It's very tough that Mardy was not able to make, and we're all disappointed that he is not in the greatest health right now.   I think he's going to be ready to go soon, and we're really hopefully he'll be ready for Houston.

Q.   Did you say yes right away or did you tell Jim you had to think about it?   What did you tell him?
RYAN HARRISON:   He knew I was going to be excited before he even made the phone call.

Q.   Bob, obviously you missed Switzerland after the birth of your daughter.   How is it to be back?
BOB BRYAN:   Yeah, I mean, I didn't sleep well the night before the match, even though I wasn't even on the same continent.
But I had my Davis Cup on and, yeah, I watched every point.   I felt like I was with those guys in spirit at least.
Obviously I'm happy to be back on the Davis Cup team.   Had some of my best memories playing for our country.   Yeah, it's gonna be exciting, as always, and we'll be ready to go.

Q.   This is a question for John.   John, how do you feel with the clay?   (Indiscernible.)
JOHN ISNER:   I love that guy.   You should have been a lawyer.   (Laughter.)   The answer is no.   I'll tell that you right now.
No, the clay court is a very nice clay court.   It's one of the best clay courts in the world, in my opinion.   I haven't practiced on it too much.
But a court is a court.   For me, I'm going to go and try to play my game.   Like I said, it's a very, very nice clay court, so I don't anticipate bad bounces or anything like that.
So as far as the speed or anything like that, I haven't even thought about it.   I don't know if it's fast or slow or not.
But, I don't know.   It's fine.   I'm going to go out there and (indiscernible.)

Q.   John, you never came to Monte‑Carlo before, so it's your first time in the country club that's also the place of the Monte‑Carlo tournament.   So I heard you were going to stay over or not?
JOHN ISNER:   It's still‑‑ as of right now, I'm planning on playing Houston, back home in the U.S.   so I'm going to fly back to the States.   I'm going to have to make a decision whether or not I'm going to play the tournament in two weeks' time.
It's either come over here and play the tournament, then after that go back home, or stay home and practice for, what is it, Madrid and Rome or whatnot.
So I got to a couple decisions to make.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT