BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 14, 2012
Ryan Harrison
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







G. SIMON/R. Harrison
  7‑6, 5‑7, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Bad luck, Ryan.   Have you played a more frustrating player to play than that?
RYAN HARRISON:   He's‑‑ you know, it's not frustrating.   The guy is obviously a really good player.   He's been in the top 10 in the world.   He's playing that caliber of tennis right now. 
Everyone does things well.   You can say it's frustrating if you're returning Karlovic, Raonic, or some of those guys' serves.   Everyone does something that's frustrating because they're good at it.   That's why they're the best.

Q.   Great rallies.   Did you feel it was a high‑standard match, maybe not all the time, but at moments?
RYAN HARRISON:   Yeah, definitely.   We both had some moments where we missed a few balls that we should have made, and we both had moments where we played some really good tennis.
There was‑‑ you know, the third set was deceivingly close, because even though it was 6‑1, I had breakpoints at 1‑All, I had a game point at 1‑2, I had a breakpoint at 1‑3, and then I'm down 4‑1 before I know it.   Missed a couple balls and next thing I know I'm done.
But couple points here and there and if I get the crowd behind me and get momentum in that 1‑‑ All game, you never know.   I could be on the other end of this scoreline.

Q.   What was going through your mind in the seconds when you played those couple of match points?
RYAN HARRISON:   I was just thinking, Don't give it to him, you know.   Don't cop out and play a loose point.   Make him earn it. 
So I just decided, you know, Look, I'm going to make him earn this, and then I was able to sneak a break by him and play a good game to break again. 
I fought really hard and win the match points that he had.   Had a really long rally.   He missed an overhead that was a pretty tough overhead, so it was definitely‑‑ I was happy to fight the way I did.

Q.   I'm sure you were satisfied in some ways,   but in some way you're not satisfied with yourself. 
RYAN HARRISON:   Definitely not.   I just lost a three‑set match I definitely could have won.   I had set points in the first set;   I won the second set and plenty of breakpoints to go up in the third set.
So it's not like I'm ecstatic.

Q.   Is there one particular point where you think the match actually went either way?   Is there anything that is particularly stuck in your mind?
RYAN HARRISON:   Well, there was‑‑ you know, there was four or five points in the match that really changed momentum.   The final one was the 1‑All breakpoint I had where we had about a 40‑ball rally.   I felt like I was in a better position of the point, and he kind of almost took a cut from an out‑of‑the‑court position. 
He hit a line and I challenged it, and it kind of went off the back of the line, and played a really good point.   And the very next point I hit a good ball to come in and he clipped the tape with a passing shot and ended up winning the game. 
After that I was kind of behind the eight ball.   That was the finalmomentum changer.   There was plenty.   He had match points in the second set.   We could have been done 15, 20 minutes before that, too.

Q.   The third set there was a long discussion you had with the umpire, something about challenges.   Can you just clarify? 
RYAN HARRISON:   We just both felt that he wasn't doing the best job of informing us if the ball was really far out.   Gilles ran out of challenges at like 5‑3 in the second set, and we were both down to one challenge or so early in every set just because we were looking at him. 
You know, players will look at the chair.   And usually the chair will give you the an indication, Okay, that was clearly out or I wasn't 100% sure.
This guy wouldn't give us anything, and so we were both challenging a lot because we weren't sure if the ball was in or out.   So the discussion was just we were asking him, Look, please give us a little more.   If you think the ball is clearly out, tell us so that we don't waste our challenges. 
It was almost like he was afraid to make a statement, an opinion.

Q.   With how well you were rallying not only today but with Garcia‑Lopez, as well, as far as the endurance you have shown here, looking ahead a while, are you more excited for your prospects on clay this year than you have been in the past?
RYAN HARRISON:   Well, I think I'm just excited about obviously my fitness level.   I mean, clay is obviously‑‑ you know, like you said, it's a very steady surface.   You have to be consistent and fit.
But it's, you know, it's something that will hopefully benefit me on every surface.

Q.   How would you do today against the Ryan Harrison, the 18 year old, who played Roger last year?   And secondly, when we're sitting here, God willing, next year, where do you want to be?
RYAN HARRISON:   Well, I think that your ranking is a direct reflection of your results.   My ranking is higher right now, so obviously I would have had a better chance at beating him. 
But, you know, I played some good matches last year, too.   It was just hopefully happening more frequently this year.
I want to be No. 1 in the world at this time next year, but realistically we'll see how it goes.   I'm just going to take it one day at a time and see how it goes. 
I'm not gonna say No. 20 in the world, No. 10 in the world, something like that, because God forbid I get there at some point this year, I'm not going to be satisfied with that.

Q.   You're saying you could be the best tennis player in the world?
RYAN HARRISON:   Absolutely.   I'm not there this year, but why play tennis if you don't feel you can win whenever you walk on the court.

Q.   You talked about working on your composure over the offseason.   Your racquet met the court a few times today.   Is that something you need to look back on from this match and need to fix, or is it not really a problem? 
RYAN HARRISON:   I didn't think that my temper was out of control today.   I thought that there were some times that I got a little frustrated, and I didn't think I lost the match because of my emotions.

Q.   Don't you think that the sixth game is a little early to break a racquet?   It was the sixth game of the first set.   I mean, you know...   It seemed a little early. 
RYAN HARRISON:   I think I answered the same answer to the same question. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT