NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 5, 2015
James Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Kyrie and Curry are two of the greatest ball handlers in history.   What do they both do that's unique?   How are they different, and what makes their ball handling such a key to their game? 
JAMES JONES:   I think their ability to score is unique.   They can transition from play making and passing to attacking to score.   It seems most guys we find in one or two modes.   They're either in attack mode or they're in pass mode.   Those guys within a possession in between dribbles (indiscernible) and looking to be aggressive offensively and get their teammates involved.

Q.   When you're faced with a guy like Curry in open floor and he's handling and you're defending in front of him, what is that experience like for you? 
JAMES JONES:   I mean, well, you know he's crafty with the ball.   Ultimately he wants space to shoot, so you're always conscious of him looking to defend his jumpshot, which allows him to get to the basket and attack. 
So that's what makes him tough in transition because you know at some point he's going to (indiscernible).

Q.   What's Kyrie do that creates space and gets him to the basket? 
JAMES JONES:   He's low to the ground, but more importantly he uses his body tremendously well.   Once he's‑‑ he doesn't have Steph to defend, and once he gets to the second level, his ability to move the ball, get the ball in and out of play and spaces and use his body to create separation.

Q.   If you could have Kyrie's handles or Curry's handles, which would you take and why? 
JAMES JONES:   I'd take Kyrie's.   They're both extremely talented guys.   But Kyrie's a little more compact.   His handle in and out of attack mode is a little stronger.

Q.   Is there anyone that you played with or against in your career who you could say is in their league or even better as a ball handler? 
JAMES JONES:   No, I think the game has changed a lot in the last ten years, to what guys who were great ball handlers in the past and really didn't have the ball in their hands as much.   So even if they were talented, they weren't able to display it.   Our guys have the ball 80 to 90 percent of the game.   In the past a great ball handling point guard only had the ball 50 to 60 percent of the game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT