NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CAVALIERS v HAWKS
May 25, 2015
James Jones
Carl Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   James, LeBron says that Tristan will be a Cavalier for life.   That's quite a statement.   What do you think makes him so confident about that?   
    JAMES JONES:   We take this thing one day at a time, but Tristan is‑‑ he's really the heart of this team.   I think every possession, you see him out there in the paint outmanned, by himself, going to war with three or four guys at a time, and he comes up victorious.   So he gives us a toughness and an edge that we need, that we thrive off of.   
    I know we love him.   I love him.   And he's a Cav right now.   So that means he's a Cav for life.  
   
 Q.   Is there anyone remotely as edgy as he is on your team?   How important is it to have that ingredient?   
    JAMES JONES:   When you have a guy like him, you really have a special player.   There aren't many guys in this league like him, and honestly, there aren't many guys that I've seen in my time in the league with the motor and intensity that he brings.   He's a unique player, and that's why we desperately need him.  
   
 Q.   He studied Rodman, apparently, films of Rodman rebounding.   What do you think he got out of that?   
    JAMES JONES:   I think, in your mind, you look at it and say, hey, you have to be relentless, but until you watch someone actually do it, you don't realize how much work and how early in the possession they start to do their work.   For a kid like him who's a visual learner, it's good for him to get that at an early age because it's something that set the mark for him.   Every day he comes to practice, every night he goes out there and tries to perform.  
   
 Q.   You expect he'll color his hair eventually later in his career?   
    JAMES JONES:   No, I think those days of guys coloring their hair are long gone.  
   
 Q.   You spent one year in Cleveland.   Have you picked up what pro sports mean to this town and what if you guys make it to The Finals, what that release or celebration is going to be like?   
    JAMES JONES:   I know the winters are cold.   So when it's 20 below outside and your snowed in and all you have is the game of basketball, the fans, they watch.   So it's something that over time families have brought their kids up watching basketball, watching baseball, watching the Browns.   So this is a sports town because everywhere you go, there's season ticket holders who have been there 15, 20 years, and that's a sign of a town that embraces and loves their sports teams.  
   
 Q.   You've played in a few different cities in your career.   What anecdotes can you share about things that you've heard from people here in Cleveland about what it would mean to them to get to The Finals and to win it?   
    JAMES JONES:   Just the fans here, they're here every day, win, lose, or draw.   They're here every day.   The ultimate reward would be to get to the Championship.   So when you know that the fans will show up for you regardless if you're winning or losing, you know that they love you, that there's sincere love, and that's when you thrive your best.   
    That's why we're out here pushing, trying to win one more game, to get us one step closer to achieving that goal.  
   
 Q.   What do you picture the reaction will be like outside the arena, with this game, the Indians are playing tomorrow night.   There could be a lot of people out there.   
  
  
    JAMES JONES:   I get here so early, I can't even tell you what the streets are going to look like, but I know deep down in my heart the city is abuzz with the prospects of what we can do.   We're looking forward to making them proud.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT