NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v BULLS
May 21, 2011
James Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Obviously, coming off the momentum of Game 2, Big Three, Udonis' return, what to you expect it to be like tomorrow?   
 JAMES JONES: I expect it to be a crazy atmosphere. This is the Eastern Conference Finals, our first game at home really with for the first time all year our team completely together. We're totally intact, and we're playing good basketball.   
 I think this is what the fans envisioned when they heard this team was being put together. Hopefully they'll turn out and give us the energy we need to face the Bulls.   
  
  Q. You and UD, hometown kids, talk about what that's going to be like for you tomorrow?   
 JAMES JONES: Oh, man, it will be -- everything in stride. It will be an emotional high for both of us. Me, because this is my first opportunity going here. Udonis has been in the Eastern Conference Finals at home before. He's won a championship.   
 For me it's a new experience. But also for Udonis, because he's just gotten back. There's no better way to follow up a performance like he had on the road than to do it here in the comforts and confines of your own backyard.   
  
  Q. Being a Miami guy, why do you think the city of Miami connects so well with you guys?   
 JAMES JONES: With Udonis?   
  
  Q. Yes.   
 JAMES JONES: Because he's been here his entire life. It's always -- you get a sense of satisfaction and appreciation when you truly say you walked in the shoes of someone (Indiscernible) Miami is a very diverse place. It's a very difficult place to play basketball. A lot of fans and supporters understand that.   
 For him to reach the level that he has, they've seen him take those baby steps and become a man who has done some special things here with the Miami Heat.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible) you guys have done very well here during the playoffs at home. And those guys haven't lost two games in a row. Tomorrow's game will be very pivotal. Something will have to give tomorrow.   
 JAMES JONES: That's playoff basketball. There are trends. There's always the statistics of a team doing something, another team doing something, momentum here and there. At the end of the day, something has to give. We'll hang our hat on the style of play that we have and also being here in front of our home crowd.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT