NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 13, 2015
James Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   So you've already won one here in Oakland, so you know you can win here on the road.   They've won one in your neck of the woods as well.   Are you ready to trade once again? 
JAMES JONES:   Yeah, we're coming here to win, no doubt about it.   That's what our expectation is.   We're expecting them to come out and have a great atmosphere and to feel good. 
So we're going to just go out there and toss them up and let it all hang out and play hard and tough like we have this entire series, expecting that if we play our game, we'll give ourselves a good chance.

Q.   You know Mike Miller very well from Miami and also he played against Shawn Marion for a decade.   Have you been surprised by Coach Blatt's reluctance to maybe stretch the bench a little bit, or do you feel what he feels is probably best for the team in those situations? 
JAMES JONES:   Players play; coaches coach.   And we have 100% faith in Coach Blatt and his staff to craft a game plan that works for us.   I mean, here we are Game 5 of The Finals, and the way he's coached our team has gotten us to this point. 
So we're ready to play.   Every player is willing and ready to contribute.   And if our numbers are called, we'll perform.

Q.   Do you feel like (indiscernible) with the starting lineup? 
JAMES JONES:   I mean, I think a lot of times people put more on to things than the actual result.   I mean, they're playing their guys.   How they play their guys and what circumstances, that's in game, postgame adjustments that happen all year long.   In the playoffs you see guys come in and out of the rotation often. 
So we're just going to continue to play.   They'll continue to play.   And at the end of the day the five guys on the floor, whichever combination it is, whichever team performs and executes best, will be the team that's victorious.

Q.   How do you guys get the pace back to your style of play if they come out with the small lineup like they did? 
JAMES JONES:   For us it's to continue to take good shots and have good floor balance.   We took some quick shots last game, and they got the game off the pace. 
But overall when we sit back and we look at it, that game defensively was still in reach for us.   The pace was still good.   We got to the free‑throw line, missed a bunch of free throws. 
So they played fast, and we tried to play fast.   And for some parts of the game we played too fast and for other parts of the game we slowed them down, which was to our advantage.   So we just have to other strike a better balance. 
But overall we're happy with how the series has unfolded.

Q.   Did you like the shots you guys were taking in those instances? 
JAMES JONES:   Without a doubt.   We missed some good looks or we took some tough shots.   But overall we felt we had some good looks that we didn't make.

Q.   Missed shots like that, shoot so poorly, then you go (indiscernible).   How do you turn it back on for Game 5? 
JAMES JONES:   There is no turn it on, turn it off.   You continue to play the way you played all year and continue to take the shots the same way you've been taking them all year, and you just make them.   It's just that simple.   You're going to have an opportunity to make shots, and you have to capitalize on them when you're playing a good team like this.

Q.   Are you concerned about playing with a seven‑man rotation, especially if they go small again and they get off to a pace that they like to play? 
JAMES JONES:   I think if you look at the rotations overall, they play a tight rotation, a lot tighter than they have in the past.   And we've been playing a tight rotation for a period of time now. 
So I've said multiple times, our coaching staff, our team, our strategy has gotten us to Game 5 of The Finals, and we have complete trust in it, and we'll do the things necessary to put ourselves in a position to win. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT