U.S. OPEN
August 29, 2018
Cameron Norrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. LAJOVIC/C. Norrie   
6-2, 2-6, 6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You obviously had quite a few breakpoint chances.  Do you feel frustrated, like that was one that could have gone the other way?  
CAMERON NORRIE: Yeah, a little bit.  For the most part he played pretty well on those breakpoints.  He was hitting, like, heavy kick serve out wide.  I wasn't finding my forehand return cross.   
Yeah, very frustrating.  Had a volley on top of the net to break back in the fourth there.  Very frustrating day.  But, no, all credit to him.  He played great.  Hit his forehand well.  I think he's going to do well.  I think he's going to have to play either Isner or Jarry.  So decent draw.   
 Q.  Take us through the confusion over the heat break.  
CAMERON NORRIE: Yeah, I thought I had 10 minutes.  I went to the media room because I know that's where the coldest AC is.  Chilled there for what I thought -- I had a guy with me, showed me eight minutes.  I came back and it was 9 minutes 15 on his watch.  Apparently on the wristwatch it was 10 minutes 50.   
I don't know, with the confusion between my ref and the actual ref, I don't know.  I don't really understand it.  Apparently I got a warning.  I don't even know what that means, but...   
 Q.  What is the protocol?  They tell you, 10 minutes starts now?  
CAMERON NORRIE: No, they didn't say anything.  I was just looking on the guy's watch that was with me.  I made sure I was back before the 10 minutes on his watch, and I was.  I don't know.   
 Q.  I saw someone say you lost a first serve.  
CAMERON NORRIE: No, nothing.   
 Q.  You say you don't know what that means.  They didn't clarify the rules very well?  
CAMERON NORRIE: They did clarify it, but for me it was, like, two times.  I didn't know which time was valid.  I was back before the 10 minutes, I thought was 10 minutes.  There was another time from that from the chair umpire.   
 Q.  Is there any guidance as where you can go in those 10 minutes?  
CAMERON NORRIE: Just went to the media room.  Coldest AC.   
 Q.  How did you find the heat out there?  
CAMERON NORRIE: It was actually fine today.  I wasn't bothered at all.  I felt really fresh, was ready for a fifth set.  Yeah, disappointed I couldn't be out there still battling.  It's tough.   
 Q.  You were the last Britain standing by about a minute.  
CAMERON NORRIE: Really?   
 Q.  What are your plans from here?  When will you head over to Scotland?  
CAMERON NORRIE: I got dubs still.  Got dubs tomorrow.  We'll see how that goes.  I haven't decided yet, not yet.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT