NATURE VALLEY INTERNATIONAL
June 27, 2018
Cameron Norrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. NORRIE/J. Clarke   
6-4, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What was it like playing your Wimbledon doubles partner?  
CAMERON NORRIE: Jay's obviously a great player.  Young up-and-coming Brit.  I felt the pressure was more on me today, I mean, being I'm a higher-ranked player.   
No, it was a very high-level match from the start.  I thought we both played really well, and I was -- yeah, played well and closed it out well in the end and just really happy with my performance and happy to get through that one.   
 Q.  What did it feel like?  Obviously in the past you have sort of been the underdog, and that maybe has been in your favor, but as you said, you were the one that was actually expected to win.  Did that change the dynamic a little bit for you?  
CAMERON NORRIE: Yeah, exactly.  I mean, it's been pretty strange for me being the one that was supposed to win based on rankings.  But I think a little bit in college that's how it was.  I was always ranked quite highly in college, and I just used that experience to kind of -- I have been in that situation so many times in college that I was kind of able to close out the match and be comfortable in that position that I was.   
 Q.  The draw has opened up a little bit.  The No. 1 seed has gone out.  Lacko in the next round instead.  
CAMERON NORRIE: Yeah, he's a great player on the grass.  Yeah, I think it would have been nice to play Schwartzman, but no, you know, he's a good player, hits the ball cleanly.   
I actually played him when I was, like, 14, 15 years old in New Zealand when I was quite young and he got me, so it would be nice to get some revenge on that one.   
 Q.  Imagine a scenario where it's the first day of Wimbledon, you're playing Roger Federer on Centre Court.  What would your thoughts be?  What would your game plan be?  
CAMERON NORRIE: Yeah, that would be unreal.  I mean, just to play against him and share the court with that guy -- we were just talking about him, actually, and just how well he's highly respected in the tennis world.   
No, I'm not really sure how I'd beat him, but I think just play my game and just go out and enjoy that you're playing Roger Federer on Centre Court at Wimbledon.  Doesn't really get much better than that.   
 Q.  You talked a little bit about college tennis.  Could you just go into a bit more depth about what the difference is in the college system and what do you feel it's given you, in particular?  
CAMERON NORRIE: The college system is just a lot of matches.  You're playing against other teams.  You've got your teammates with you.  You've got your teammates helping you.   
It's just a lot of matches you play, I think two to three times per week in the season.  And every match is competitive.  It's just, I mean, it's a great atmosphere to improve.   
You're not really stressing about rankings and everything's kind of like organized for you.  Your coaches give you everything.   
It's just a great environment to get better as a tennis player, get better as any kind of athlete.   
Everyone wants you to succeed, and it's just -- it's perfect.  And I think just you play so many matches, so it's so good for your competitiveness and your match fitness.  I learned a lot in college.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT