THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2017
Cameron Norrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. TSONGA/C. Norrie
6-3, 6-2, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Obviously not the result you would have hoped for but overall was that a positive experience and one that you'll learn from?
CAMERON NORRIE: Yeah, for sure.  Such a great experience playing someone like Tsonga.  I was happy with the way I started the match.  He served great throughout the match, and he didn't really give me a chance to get into the match with his serve.
But, yeah, I enjoyed the match and for sure a great experience.  I just wish I could have played and returned a little bit better, but it was all good, yeah.
Q. It was all over a bit quicker than you would have hoped for, your Wimbledon experience, to be out so quickly?
CAMERON NORRIE: No, it was pretty good.  He played good, and I was happy with the way I played.  Yeah, I mean, it was a quick match.  With the way he was serving it was tough to get into his service games.  Yeah, I enjoyed every moment of it.
Q. Was being first on a problem?
CAMERON NORRIE: No, I was actually happy being first on.  It was nice to kind of get out there first and not think about it too much and just go out and have a swing.  Yeah, it was all good.
Q. Where in particular did the match get away from you?
CAMERON NORRIE: I think I just lost a little bit of focus.  Missed a few easy volleys in the first set, got broken, and then I think it was just the same in each set.  I played one loose service game in each set, and it cost me.  I'm not used to playing guys at this level.
It's a good learning experience, and I will know next time to work on my concentration and work on my volleys a little bit (smiling).
Q. Was there a difference in the physicality of it, playing someone like Tsonga?
CAMERON NORRIE: No, not really.  I felt pretty good.  I felt the court was a little bit slippery, and I didn't feel too great on my feet.  But, no, it felt just like a regular tennis match.
Q. Were you nervous before the game?
CAMERON NORRIE: No, not really.  I was more excited and just wanted to just prove to him and prove to everyone else about my level.  Just go out there and try and do my best.
I tried my hardest, and there's nothing more I can do.  I'm proud of myself.
Q. The first six games you were sort of matching him all the way there.  You must take some confidence from that.
CAMERON NORRIE: I think I matched him pretty well.  The whole match was just his serve, and he stayed focused and on it the whole match.  Didn't give me anything.
I was struggling on my returns a little bit, but that's usually my best part of my game.  Today I was a little bit disappointed with the way I returned, yeah.
Q. What's the plan now?  You have been studying in America.  Are you heading back there to continue your studies?
CAMERON NORRIE: Oh, no, no.  I have turned pro now.  I can't actually play for the uni at all anymore.  I'm going to head back to the States and play a lot of tournaments on the hard courts over there and kind of look to base, if I have like an off week or something, then I will go to my uni at TCU and kind of base out of there.  My favorite surface is the hard, so it's the best time of year for me now.
Q. Who do you have supporting you today?  Looked like you had a few people from your uni.
CAMERON NORRIE: Yeah, I had some of my old teammates came to support me from, yeah, came from the States.  But, yeah, my old teammate Forcundo Lagunis (phonetic), I played with him my freshman year, my first year of uni, and he came.  He's my main coach and he's going to be my main coach now.
I'm just grateful for him for coming and making -- he turned down a couple of jobs to work with me over the summer and for the rest of the year, so he's been real good.  Yeah.
Q. Have you been to Wimbledon before?
CAMERON NORRIE: I played juniors here, yeah, maybe four years ago.  Yeah.  But this was my first time playing in the men's.
Q. So quite a big experience playing in a Grand Slam?
CAMERON NORRIE: Yeah, for sure.  I mean, it was a great experience.  I hope there's going to be more to come.
Q. Do you think it will be a good year for Great Britain at Wimbledon this year?
CAMERON NORRIE: I hope so.  Yeah, we'll see how it goes.  I don't know.
Q. What do you think Andy Murray's chances are?
CAMERON NORRIE: I mean, I practiced with him just before I went to Eastbourne, and he's looking good.  He's solid.  Obviously maybe he's got some issue with his hip, but I think he looks good and solid.  I think he can go all the way.  He's a fighter.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT