ATP CUP
January 9, 2020
Cameron Norrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. KYRGIOS/C. Norrie   
6-2, 6-2   
Team Australia - 1   
Team Great Britain - 0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How did you see the week overall for you as a player?  
CAMERON NORRIE: It was obviously a cool experience to start the week. First time ATP Cup and start as a team. It was nice.   
Obviously I had a bad match against Darcis, and I was able to back it up with another match, so in a normal tournament I'd be gone. So it's a real cool format.   
It's sick to be through to the quarters and good to be with a good group of guys. We're still in it, so we'll see.   
 Q.  You have obviously played a lot of sort of top players now. When it comes to playing Nick, is there anything particularly unique about the way he can sort of generate power seemingly from nothing? I think it was one serve 138 miles an hour. Is that uniquely difficult in some ways playing him?  
CAMERON NORRIE: Yeah, obviously he's got a good serve, and he's pretty solid off the gun, really good hands, good dropshots. I kind of just have to be ready for anything with him.   
He came out, and he didn't really miss too much and was very solid off the ground and served well. I just didn't hold on to my serve, and that was the difference today.   
 Q.  Was there anything else you could have done to mix it up a bit?  
CAMERON NORRIE: I think just concentrate a bit better and hold my serve. I don't know. I felt a bit off. I don't know what it was. Just couldn't concentrate. He was solid and I was just missing.   
But he served well. I actually thought I returned as well as I could have and had breakpoints, and I ended up breaking him in the second, but, I mean, I left it out there but he was just too good today.   
 Q.  Did this competition feel any different from your experiences playing Davis Cup?  
CAMERON NORRIE: Yeah, I had kind of a similar feel, but definitely different just with the whole, the way the team sat in the corner there. I think it's a cool setup.   
Yeah, just kind of with being in Australia and the three different cities, I like it. But I don't know how Davis Cup was in Madrid, so tough to compare. But to regular Davis Cup, similar but probably not as exclusive with the whole five sets and everything how it was back before Madrid.   
 Q.  You sort of touched on it already, but in a way, is it the perfect leadup to Melbourne and what might happen there?  
CAMERON NORRIE: I don't know if it's the perfect leadup. It's good. I've got some matches. It's just a pity I had a great preseason, probably expectations probably a little bit too high.   
Now I know where I'm at. I just need to kind of reset again and get ready for next week in Auckland and then get ready again for Australian Open. It's just a good kind of test to see where you are at.   
It's a lot better than having an awful match in Doha and having to play 14 hours to get to the next tournament. I've already had four matches, and it's all good.   
 Q.  In the last game when Nick was serving and you were rushing him when he was going through his service motion, was that something you thought on that moment? Did Tim suggest it to you to try to throw off his rhythm? What was that situation?  
CAMERON NORRIE: In the last game?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
CAMERON NORRIE: He served three aces, and I didn't really rush him at all.   
 Q.  No, I mean when you were trying to run forward when he was about to serve.  
CAMERON NORRIE: Oh, he was just getting me with the fake underarm. That's what was happening. Too good from him.   
 Q.  About that underarm thing, how hard is it to see it coming? Is it impossible to see it coming, or do you get an inkling?  
CAMERON NORRIE: No, I mean, he just kind of does it. It's better than him serving 200 kilometers an hour. At least you can run up and hit the ball.   
I prefer it, but he actually did one today and won the point, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT