THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 2, 2019
Cameron Norrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. NORRIE/D. Istomin
6-2, 6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You talked about wanting to get your first Wimbledon win.  Was it everything you hoped it would be?
CAMERON NORRIE: Yeah, I mean, I feel great.  Really happy to get the win.  It was actually a pretty clean match.  I got through some struggles.  Definitely I was really happy with my mentality today.  Yeah, a little bit tight at the end serving for it there.  Started with two kind of double-faults, an error.  Turned it around from there.
Really happy to get my first win at Wimbledon.  Looking for it for three years now.  Looking forward to my next match.
Q. Proud day for you and your family.  Have you spoke to your dad about it, Scottish angle there?
CAMERON NORRIE: He sent me a message, Well done on your first win.  I'll probably call him later.  I think it was middle of the night in New Zealand, where he was.  Definitely happy for me.
Q. He was over here, wasn't he, for Queen's?
CAMERON NORRIE: Yeah.
Q. Were they going cycling or something?  Back at home?
CAMERON NORRIE: They just got back now.  They went to Vienna, did like a cycling trip.  I think Wimbledon is a little bit too busy for them.  They wanted to chill out a little bit, watch a little bit from home.
But, yeah, it was good to have them.
Q. Scottish, Welsh, New Zealand, born in South Africa.  Scotland doesn't have much of a tennis heritage at all, then Andy Murray comes along.  Do you feel you have to step up in that situation?  Where were you when Andy won Wimbledon?
CAMERON NORRIE: Yeah, I mean, it's unbelievable when he won.  I don't actually know where I was.  It was definitely huge for British tennis.  I think it was huge for Scottish tennis, too.  Hopefully he can influence the younger generation.  Hopefully I can as well.
No, it's definitely great to see him back this week.  Hopefully he has a good match and comes back strong.
Q. How did you find the crowd support today?
CAMERON NORRIE: They were good, definitely on my side, which helped a lot.  Yeah, like I said before, I got through some tough moments.  Definitely had a couple friends in the crowd there.  Definitely pushed me through the line, just had my team behind me.  Definitely helped a lot.
Q. Do you feel at all because you spent time in the States, maybe some of the fans don't know you as well as they might do?
CAMERON NORRIE: I think they know me.  They've seen my name.  I played Wimbledon three times.  They've seen me play matches before.  Obviously Davis Cup.  I think that built my profile a little bit.
But, I definitely felt the home support here.  I think I'm pretty well-known, I guess, now.
Q. Very different performance today from what happened in Paris.  What was the difference mentally?  You looked a completely different player to the one that played at Roland Garros.
CAMERON NORRIE: Yeah, I think a little bit I was a little bit nervous in Paris.  I was playing so well.  I had a great clay season.  I think my expectations were a little bit too high there.  Actually all credit to the guy that beat me in Paris.  He played a good match.
But, yeah, I was a little bit flat there.  I think I'm pretty happy I went through that.  I'm learning from it.  I don't think if I went through that loss, kind of that low, that I would kind of turn it around a little bit.  I think I hit refresh after that.  Definitely I don't want to have that feeling again.
I think today I was like, I'm going to fight for every point, attack it with a different mentality.  I think I did that today.  Regardless win or loss, I just wanted to kind of fight for every point.  That's who I am.  I wanted to kind of prove that to myself.  I did that today, and the win was a bonus.
Q. Did you feel after Paris a bit sick about that performance, that you hadn't produced the best version of yourself?
CAMERON NORRIE: I think, yeah, for the last four or five years in college, I've been absolutely very focused on what I wanted to do, put in so many good days and everything.  That was one of the lowest points where I didn't feel like I was myself.
Yes, I was disappointed, not because I lost, just kind of the way I didn't kind of battle for every point, I didn't feel kind of myself that day.  That was the thing I was most disappointed for.
It wasn't a great French Open for me, but definitely won't make that mistake again.  I'll learn from it.  I'm happy to get my first win in Wimbledon today.  It was unbelievable.  I think definitely it trumps the feeling -- winning trumps the feeling of losing.
Q. Was winning a match at Wimbledon something you always dreamed of?
CAMERON NORRIE: I watched Wimbledon, but no, wasn't the biggest tennis fan kind of growing up.  I watched a lot of other sports.
Q. Rugby?
CAMERON NORRIE: I watched a lot of rugby just kind of growing up in New Zealand.
I know Wimbledon is such a special tournament.  I think all the players love it here.  I think one of the best slams, for sure.  Just the feeling of kind of being out there on the grass, all the courts have been taken so well care of.  Just a very special tournament.
I didn't think I'd be kind of winning matches at Wimbledon.  So I'll definitely take that.  Yeah, I'm happy.
Q. Nishikori now.  No. 8 seed.  How do you approach it?
CAMERON NORRIE: For sure, I think it's going to be a battle.  I'm happy that I've played a couple big servers.  Be nice to kind of get a lot of rhythm against him.  I'm just going to go out there, make it as physical as I can.  Nothing to lose really.  He's the highest seed.  I just want to go into it with the underdog mentality.  I know I'm good enough to beat him.  I know if I put my best level out there, I'm going to be trouble for anyone.
Definitely he's playing well.  He likes the grass.  When he's on, he's kind of tough to take down.  I think it's going to be a really good match.  Hopefully I'm on a bigger court, I think I play well on the bigger kind of stadiums.  It will be a good experience for me to be on Centre Court or Court 1.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT