ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
November 15, 2018
Isobel Joyce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








India - 145/6, Ireland - 93/8
Q. Pakistan game was obviously difficult for you guys.  What did you do yesterday and how did you approach this game?
ISOBEL JOYCE: We had obviously meetings yesterday.  We spoke about what went well and what didn't go well.  It's been a good summer for us -- well, the second half of the summer.  The team gets on very well, and you're really tested when things aren't going as well.  The team really pulled together.
We looked at India, tried to put Pakistan behind us, learn from our mistakes, and just try and go better each game.  A World Cup is tough for sure.  We don't play the high class sides as often as they play each on.  It's a very tough learning curve, and trying put into place small changes two days after a loss like that is difficult.
I think we did a good job today.
Q. The first time you guys played against India what was the experience like?
ISOBEL JOYCE: Today?  Well, we've played against them before.  We just haven't played them in T20s.  Yeah, it's daunting, you know especially seeing how they went up against New Zealand who hammered us earlier in the summer.
So it's one of those things you have to try and put that out of your mind, but it kind of creeps back in.  We've been working with at sports psych.  She was here with us for the first half of the tournament and she was brilliant.  We've been putting into place some kind of mental I suppose cues so that we can get past that, and I think what you saw out there today was a team that weren't afraid.  We were relishing the chance to bowl at some players like Raj and Kaur.
Q. With the openers getting a good start, it looked like India were set for a good score, but you managed to pull it back at the back end.  At what point did you think you lost the match?
ISOBEL JOYCE: 140 plus is going to be too much for us probably at the moment to get with the bat.  We have consistently made 90 to 100 at this level.  We obviously are aiming higher.  But probably 120 is -- would've been reachable for us if we were realistic.
Obviously thought, We'll go out and try and win, but once they got that total I think it was always going to be tough.  I think that our batting, we can't formulate plans on the ground.  We have to be playing these people more often.
If you look the players like the top Indian players, they play against top bowlers all the time.  They have a plan against Ellyse Perry, against all the tough bowlers, because they've played them a number of times each year.
That's the first time I've played against any of those bowlers in an couple of years.  I'm trying to think on my feet, and suddenly it's four or five balls into a spell and a new bowler comes on.  That's really where the difficulty personally lies.  It's not the nerves.  I can look at as much footage as I want, but actually immediately doing that in the middle against a bowler I haven't faced or type of bowler I haven't faced in a long time is really, really tough.
Q. You mentioned this is a new experience.  What are some of the positives that your side will take from facing a top side like India?
ISOBEL JOYCE: It's not a new experience for me.  We have done it every two years.  Every two years is too little.  You really build up to these kind of tournaments.  The occasion -- I don't think they occasion gets to us, but this is just another day for the Indian girls.  It's a huge occasion for us.
That's not where we want to be.  We want to be a team that are used to playing these kind of games day in, day out.  We want to be become a professional side.
I think you can see the foundations are there for if we were a professional side, if we had that kind of backing, if we had players going to overseas competition, if an IPL starts up or anything like that, the girls are ready to really go all in.
I personally have to get up and go to the gym at 6:00 in the morning then go do a full days' work and find time to do my cricket skills during the winter, and then during the summer I'm a full-time coach and personal trainer.  It's very difficult to find the time to get your skills up to scratch like the girls we're playing against.
Q. World Cup hopes pretty done and dusted for Ireland, what's next?
ISOBEL JOYCE: Well, we've got New Zealand, and so good performance against them would be great.  I always say to the girls, Let's just try and win every ball.  The more balls we can win the more that's benefits us as we go forward.
I really do think we're getting a lot of traction behind us.  A lot of the cricket community are coming behind us and think we're worth investing it.  I'm hoping that doesn't just die away when the World Cup ends, that we still have people talking about us and people backing our skills.
There are a few of us that are at the wrong end of our careers, but there is a huge amount of talent coming through.  If those girls can see there is somewhere to go with cricket, then they'll really stick with it.  There are so many good sports in Ireland.  We need to hold onto our players.  We don't want to lose them the Irish games like Camogie or Gaelic football, which are amateur but basically professional.
And then the hockey team obviously getting silver in the World Cup, they're going to take half the girls in the country.  We need to get the other half.
Q. Is there any team in particular that you would fancy to win the tournament?
ISOBEL JOYCE: Who I want to win or who I think will win?
Q. Both.
ISOBEL JOYCE: I think I would love India to win.  I think it would be brilliant for women's cricket.  I like the way they go about things.  They're really an up-and-coming side.  Who I think will win?  Possibly Australia.
Q. You mentioned a sports psychologist with the team.  What's changed since she's come in?
ISOBEL JOYCE: I think just the people thinking about how they think about things.  Cricket is such a mental game.  You have to have control of the mental side.  And speaking as someone who has struggled with their bowling a couple times in the last few years, the mental side is what I was struggling with.  Once I can put into place some things to negate that, that has really helped me.
The other side of things is dealing with things like these losses.  The girls been really upset obviously because we want to do well and we put a lot of work into it.  But we're bouncing back quicker than we would've in the past, and that's due to many numbers of things.
She just goes round quietly and does her stuff, and she also then gives us team talks and things like that, talks about the mindsets we should be having.  She talks about standards and cultures in the team.  Bad habits the team doesn't even know they have.  We kind of fight against it a little bit, but then see the results come through quite quickly.
The girls have responded really, really well to her.  The boys side as well.  She is working a cross both teams.  I think she'll be really instrumental in helping us keep moving up.
Q. How does a team like Ireland build a team culture?  And if you have identified it, what is this Irish team culture?
ISOBEL JOYCE: Most of the girls live near each other.  We play in the same league.  We see each other all the time.  That's one of the ways we do it.  We gym together.
If anyone on the other teams bowls like me then we're sorted or if they bowl like Lucy, because we face each other all the time.  It's when we face different types of bowlers we run into problems a little bit.  Yeah, we have a great team culture I think.  When you're losing things start slipping and that's when the culture come in and you notice things going awry.  That's the next part we need to work on.
We're fine when things are good or beforehand.  After the game today we'll have to have a think and make sure that things are still in place for Saturday?
Q. For a team like Ireland, how important is the recent ICC decision to award at T20 matches international status?  How much of a difference does it make the know the match you're playing in your country's colors actually counted as an international?
ISOBEL JOYCE: It's massive.  We've been in the top 10 for the last number of years so our games against the top nations have counted but we don't play them very much.  It's nice.  It really was lovely to see how much it meant to the teams that we're playing in the qualifier in the Netherlands.  A lot of those teams had huge cheers for when they got on the pitches.  It was a massive occasion.  I don't know why you wouldn't want that.  It's only going to good for cricket.
Keeping that kind of thing to a small number of countries makes to season to me.  Papua New Guinea it was had special caps for their for T20 game that they went and wore in the field that first day.  Baggy red and black ones.  That was a really nice touch.  All these little things make a massive difference is just don't cost us anything.
It's an easy decision for them to make, but I'm glad they made it.
Q. You like to see that in ODIs as well?
ISOBEL JOYCE: Yeah.
Q. And just trying to find more about the players off the field.  Can you tell us why you've chosen the particular shirt number you have?
ISOBEL JOYCE: I got an email a number of years ago saying, You need a shirt number.  Myself and my twin sister were together and we said, 33 and 34 sounds nice.  It looks kind of good.  Let's go for that.  I quite like that it's a popular number around the world.  You can normally find someone on each of the teams in Big Bash or IPL that has the same on number as me.
Yeah, so I normally go for that person.  Yeah, nothing much behind it.  I have stuck to it since and it was my number in the Big Bash as well.
Q. From a temperate country, not an island, and coming to tropical Guyana, the conditions I'm sure were very difficult sometimes for you to adjust to the heat and everything else.  How was it for your team in this tournament?
ISOBEL JOYCE: Yeah, it is very difficult for us.  We went away to the Manga to train for the weekend, that's in Spain, a few weeks before coming away.  That was to train in hot weather.  It wasn't went as hot as this, but it was better than basically winter in Ireland.
So we did that and then we came out earlier and we tried to train pretty hard in the week leading up to the tournament to get used to the conditions.  But we monitor our hydration a lot.  Our coach is very tough with everyone about staying hydrated.  The No. 12, 13, 14, have been unbelievable with making sure that everyone is doing okay, that we're getting our liquids on board and all that stuff.
It just comes with experience I guess.  You probably can guess by the age or the experience who is going to be struggling out there and who is not.  So the girls who are here will probably be fine next time we play in these conditions, and the new people who come in will struggle, and so on.
We just need it to be happening more often so it doesn't really become a factor going forward.
Q. So you're saying it's been tough for your team?
ISOBEL JOYCE: A little bit.  A little bit.  But I think we've dealt with it well.  We've thought about it and put things in place.  It's always going to be more difficult for us.  We did have a hot summer this year and played against Bangladesh and New Zealand.  It was really, really for months and it was about 30 degrees most of the time.
The difficulty for us is the humidity.  The humidity is the thing we struggle with the most.  We don't really have that at home.  All you can do is try and get used to it and do the best you can.
Q. (Regarding boundaries.)
ISOBEL JOYCE: Sorry?
Q. Boundary markers?
ISOBEL JOYCE: That we don't have them this big or we do?
Q. Is this as big as your place or this is bigger?
ISOBEL JOYCE: I would say it's pretty similar to what we've been playing on.
Q. Similar?
ISOBEL JOYCE: Yeah.  The eight field is a lot slower.  Our eight fields at home are extremely quick.  The grass a very short so you don't get as much bang for your buck when you're hitting the ball.
Q. How would you rate this pitch?
ISOBEL JOYCE: Oh, I think it's very good.  It was turning a lot today, but think they did a great job considering how much moisture fell.  It was always going to be that kind of pitch considering the amount of water that was around.  I thought it played pretty well.
One of the other days of it a little bit dead, but today it was pretty good.
Q. The next game is going to be the last one for a couple of your players.  What is it going to mean to the team to send them off in a good way?
ISOBEL JOYCE: I think we'll try not to think about it too much.  It's going to be a big celebration afterwards, a celebration of their careers and how much they have given, but I think we will be focused on -- we want to send them off on a high, but don't want to think about that while we're playing.
It's going to be a big loss to the team, two huge characters and contributors with the ball and the bat.  Yeah, we are just going to do our best to do them proud and send them off in good fashion..






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT