WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: ROUND ONE
March 10, 2006
Daniel Cabrera
Alberto Castillo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How did you feel out there today? 
 DANIEL CABRERA:  Oh, I felt great. 
 Q.  Were you throwing what you wanted to throw? 
 DANIEL CABRERA:  Yeah, yeah, I'm fine.  Manny talked to me and said that if I throw 60 pitches I can be available in the next four days.  That's why I only throw like 47. 
 Q.  What do you expect in the second round?  That group is really tough.  I'm sure it will be tougher competition than here.  What are you looking for in the second round? 
 DANIEL CABRERA:  Well, in the second round I'm looking for a win for us.  But I think the second round can be more difficult because it's better teams competing and we'll see what the Dominican Republic can do. 
 Q.  The pitching has been very good for you guys, has that been surprising at all, how solid it's been? 
 DANIEL CABRERA:  No, it's not surprising.  Every pitcher on the Dominican Republic team is really good and a hundred percent ready to go.  And that's not a big surprise. 
 Q.  A lot was made about the fact that you have four world class starters in the World Baseball Classic and you guys combined gave up 12 hits and had a relatively high ERA.  Is that kind of like making a statement for you guys that you guys are a decent, strong pitching staff? 
 DANIEL CABRERA:  Like pitching, you know, every starter, you know, when have you a young pitcher, whatever it can be, anything can happen.  But I think that everybody feels great coming from spring training, like you can say a hundred percent. 
 Guys can be, everybody can do a good job. 
 Q.  Have you talked to any of those guys this week? 
 DANIEL CABRERA:  No.  Nope. 
 Q.  Were you going to call in today? 
 DANIEL CABRERA:  Yeah, tonight. 
 Q.  What are you going to tell them? 
 DANIEL CABRERA:  I'm going to say that I feel pretty good. 
 Q.  Have you talked to Manny about when you might throw in the second round? 
 DANIEL CABRERA:  No, not yet. 
 Q.  Is there a team you would like to go against? 
 DANIEL CABRERA:  Venezuela again. 
 Q.  (Inaudible)? 
 ALBERTO CASTILLO:  I'm here to do my job.  It doesn't matter.  Whoever gets up has a chance to hit a homer or base hit or ground ball.  But it's an honor to be here representing my country and a bunch of guys, a bunch of stars, Albert Pujols, Big Papi, Miguel Tejada.  So it's an honor to be around those people. 
 We know that playing baseball with everyone in the Dominican Republic, and we're showing right now that we're the best. 
 Q.  How difficult is it for you to catch some of these pitchers with varying styles, they have a lot of different deliveries, a lot of different combinations? 
 ALBERTO CASTILLO:  Well, we grow up in the Dominican Republic as a special player pretty much.  And we play winter ball in the season over there, we face all those guys, even if we're not playing on the same team, we still know when they're going to throw a slider, how their fastball is.  And Cabrera's, oh my goodness, 97, 98.  If I was a hitter to face him, I don't want to face him.  But he's a guy that comes right after you.  Great talent.  Great future.  And I hope that we can do the best for him in the future. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT