ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
March 3, 2020
Chloe Tryon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
West Indies/South Africa - match abandoned due to rain   
 Q.  You've obviously topped the group with that point tonight. This forecast is a bit dodgy for the next few days in Sydney. Is it something you've spoken about as a group, that if you had got a game how important it was to try and finish top of the group in case it becomes the deciding factor?  
CHLOE TRYON: Yeah, obviously we did speak about that. Obviously it's something we can't control, so we had to obviously talk about that, and just we know how much it might be raining on Thursday, as well. We kind of have to make sure that we're well prepared, and hopefully we can get a game on Thursday. There's been rain for a few days now. At the end of the day it's something we can't control, and we just have to make sure that we're well prepared for our game on Thursday.   
 Q.  Just overall, the group campaign, how pleased are you with how it's gone?  
CHLOE TRYON: Oh, really good. I think the girls have played really good cricket. I felt we had a really good chat before we started here, and just the way the girls have put up their hands has been really good. Standout performances have been good, and yeah, it's just lovely to see from the girls. They've been playing really good cricket, so obviously looking forward to Thursday, but obviously got to prepare well for Thursday.   
 Q.  Obviously you take on Australia; it's going to be a massive crowd there in Sydney on Thursday night. Is that something you've also got to prepare for, all the emotion that's going to be around that game just in the city alone?  
CHLOE TRYON: Obviously. It's their home ground. We know there's going to be a lot of people around, as well. Obviously we've just got to make sure that we stay in our space, prepare really well, and make sure that we're switched on from the first ball. We're playing the No. 1 team in the world, so got to make sure that we're well prepared for that.   
 Q.  Do you think there's maybe a little bit of a weakness there for them without Ellyse Perry? Obviously I'm sure you're across that news today of her ruled out for the tournament.  
CHLOE TRYON: Well, obviously she's a world-class player. You want a player like that to be playing. So for us, we kind of know the matchups that they have on their team, so for me it's just about making sure that we prepare with all the other players and make sure that we have our game plans ready for them.   
 Q.  You haven't beat Australia before, but would it be fair to say that's kind of irrelevant given how well South Africa are playing right now and the confidence you've come in with the week that you've had?  
CHLOE TRYON: Yeah, well, we want to play the world champions. We've wanted to play them for a while now. To play in the semifinals will probably be the biggest game for us. We just have to make sure that we analyze every single player, we go there and put up a good fight, and we know it'll be a good game of cricket.   
 Q.  You haven't got the chance to prove it again tonight, but do you feel like you're good value for topping this group?  
CHLOE TRYON: Oh, no, definitely. Obviously with the rain around, as well, we'll make sure that we're on top of the luck, but the girls have been playing really good cricket. And it's nice to see the maturity from everyone. If you look back two years ago, weren't in this space, so really good that the girls have been putting up their hands and working really hard.   
 Q.  In terms of this group, as you said, you've topped it, not having to win every game, but you haven't lost anything. Does this show kind of the improvement you've made as a team, that you're not just scraping through anymore, that you're putting in big strides to make sure that you're leaving nothing to chance?  
CHLOE TRYON: Yeah, obviously after the World Cup in 2018, we know it was not good for us. We had to reflect a lot as individuals outside of cricket and come together and kind of work a plan forward on how we're going to get to where we want to get to. And yeah, it was just good that the girls obviously took their time away from cricket and just made sure that they worked on their game and everything else, and I felt that you could just feel the vibe, like the maturity around the group has been really good. Younger players have put up their hands. You want that going into a World Cup and into a semifinal. For me, it's very pleasing.   
 Q.  Did you speak about the 2018 disappointment in your preparations for this one?  
CHLOE TRYON: No, I kind of thought that we left it there. After that World Cup we made sure that we obviously had the chats, and we kind of just left it there. We don't want to talk about that anymore. At the end of the day, it's done and dusted, and we have to look forward to the semifinals coming up now. To us it's not really in our minds, so obviously we discussed it, but yeah, it's just been really good cricket that the girls have been playing.   
 Q.  Just on Marizanne Kapp, are we likely to see her on Thursday how she's been progressing? Obviously she didn't field the other day.  
CHLOE TRYON: You will definitely see her there. No, obviously she wasn't feeling too well, and yeah, she's been resting really well, so hopefully she has enough time. But a player like her wouldn't want to sit out at all, so yeah, we just want to make sure that she just looks after herself, as well. I don't think she'll sit; I don't think she wants to. But yeah, we'll just make sure that she's well looked after before the game.   
 Q.  Would she have played tonight if you had got on?  
CHLOE TRYON: No, I'm not sure. No, she wasn't going to play.   
 Q.  Is she still with the group a lot, or has she sort of been hiding away to make sure that this virus or flu or whatever it is -- not flu, but virus spreads around the group?  
FEMALE SPEAKER: She won't be able to answer that. Yeah, she still was going to sit out. She's a precautionary risk, so like Chloe said, she would probably be expected to play in the semifinal.   
 Q.  That's a massive difference between having her on the side and not having her on the side. I imagine not just from a skills point of view but just from a psychological point of view, too, that's massive.  
CHLOE TRYON: A player like her you don't want to leave out of your team. She's proved that over the years, and the knowledge she brings to the group is really good, so a player like her doesn't want to sit out. You don't want her to sit out at all. Yeah, it would be a big loss, but knowing how she'll definitely want to play on Thursday, and obviously with us behind her, she can play.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT