WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 24, 2017
Paul Casey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Fantastic three days in Austin for you.  
PAUL CASEY: Better than last year.  I like this.  I loved this place last year, but unfortunately had to WD for illness.  So it's nice to be healthy, not be sick and play some great golf.  The match today against Charl was some fantastic stuff.  The match play stuff I've not played for a long, long time, so it felt -- it was good to be back on the horse.   
 Q.  They are throwing elements at you, aren't they?  Wind yesterday, rain today.  Concentration is key?  
PAUL CASEY: It is.  On a golf course which is tricky anyway.  It's still got the firmness to it even after the rain today.  It's meant to be difficult.  We're apparently meant to be quite good at the game.  I love it.  I think -- hopefully it translates well onto TV and to the great crowds that we've had coming out this week.  It's what it's all about.  I thoroughly enjoy it.  This is why I love the game of golf.   
 Q.  Straight to knockout, isn't it?  
PAUL CASEY: Well, it was today sort of for me.  We were both 2 and 0, Charl and I, going into today.  This is what it's all about.  A few guys out there today, and I've been in that position before, playing knowing they can't go through to the weekend.  That's a difficult position to be in.  But I like this format.  The group play has been really, really good the last two days.  You know, we're only, what, now maybe three victories from getting into a final, which is hopefully get there.  I've been there a couple of times before.  I would dearly love to win this thing.   
 Q.  Two strong players going at it.  You were going back and forth and then you separated with a burst of birdies on the back.  What was igniting that birdie run for you?  
PAUL CASEY: I just played some really good golf.  I'm not sure I can put my finger on it.  The irons were good.  The drivers remained to be long and straight.  Made some putts.  The key for me was -- it was still a close match from 10 and 11.  Then I made a wonderful putt on 11 and then he chipped it on top of me.  I thought is this how it's going to be?  Is it going to be a battle all the way to the end?  Fortunately for me he missed a couple of short opportunity on 12 and then another one on 14 and that was it.  It was great.  Some of the best golf I've played in a long, long time.  So I'm excited about it.   
 Q.  Now we move on to the true win-or-go-home round tomorrow morning.  Does anything shift for you mentally at all?  
PAUL CASEY: No.  Because today was a win-or-go-home situation for me against Charl, both being 2-0 starting the day.  I'm already in that frame of mind.  Hopefully I can be advantage because I don't need to shift mindset going into tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT