CAREERBUILDER CHALLENGE
January 20, 2017
Paul Casey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  8-under par for two rounds.  Two 2s on the card.  Both made in different ways.  Talk us through the chip in at 17 first of all.  
PAUL CASEY: It looks like I missed my shot, but it was a yard or two away from being a perfect 7-iron and being really close.  So, great news is I missed it in the right place.  Easy uphill chip.  Something I've been working on, something I need to be better at this year.   
 Q.  Tee shot on the 3rd, obviously having started at the 10th, this is your 12th hole.  This one must have looked awfully good from your end.  
PAUL CASEY: It did.  Wonderful number.  Still got the same irons I had in the bag late last year, so learning the numbers a little bit -- we got a different golf ball -- but my kind of range apparently.   
 Q.  You're terribly good at those.  Obviously, last year a lot made of the fact that you couldn't play Ryder Cup because you didn't join the European Tour.  They have now changed their membership criteria.  Your thoughts on the changes that have been made?  
PAUL CASEY: I read the release that came out yesterday.  Some very considered decisions by Thomas and Keith.  So I need to go in and look at things.  The decision was made, we're less than 48 hours into the changes now, which don't come into effect until 2018 is my understanding, the 2018 season.  Need to go and look at it.  I've been too busy trying to get ready for this week.  I knew you were going to ask me the question, but I don't have a good answer for you right now.   
 Q.  Let's talk other things.  I'll show you a statistic we made up.  This is your World Ranking at the end of each year.  From 122 all the way to 14th last year.  I know you're feeling good about your game, I know you like the partnership you formed with John McLaren.  Just how good are the next five years looking?  What are you capable of?  
PAUL CASEY: I don't know.  That's a good question.  That's what we're trying to find out.  It is a kind of -- you say it's five years, Johnny's got basically four years left.  He said, let's do it, five years, let's see how good we can be in a five year plan.  We're a year into that.  I would love to have him for an extra fifth year.  I'm not sure there's an option on his contract, but I don't know.  I feel that I've got a better understanding of my golf game than I've ever had.  Even when I got to No. 3 back in 2009, I didn't have this knowledge that I have now.  It doesn't mean it's going to -- it could be, I could be as good or better -- you just don't know, that's the wonderful thing about the game.  But there are a couple of great factors, that knowledge I've got and the fact I'm loving my golf more than I ever had.  So the fun thing is, let's see what we can do in those next four or five years.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT