TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 25, 2016
Paul Casey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You played here the old way.  Is this more exciting?  
PAUL CASEY: Way better.  This switching the nines was -- I think we hoped it would be a good move.  We thought it would be a good move, but it's proved that it's a good move.   
All the guys are going to do behind me, but yeah, I prefer it.   
 Q.  Adam Scott said as early as Wednesday, the one thing is always in mind, you know you can finish birdie, birdie eagle.  You didn't know that the other way.  
PAUL CASEY: No, you were hanging on the other way.  I'm not a massive fan of hanging on to a score, you know, building a score and trying to keep it.  I'd much rather press all the way.   
Yeah, I think they should be applauded for doing it and applauded for -- moved a lot of tees around this week, more movement than I've ever seen before.  Some different pin positions.  I mean, the rules guys always get a bit of flak, but first class, really good stuff.   
 Q.  The points kind of seemed to not work out again for you again this year.  I think you're fourth --  
PAUL CASEY: I can't figure it out.  I'm looking up there, and I'm fourth in the tournament, and it looks like I'm projected seventh.  No comment.  Yeah, no comment.   
 Q.  I'm sorry I have to ask.  When you got left off the team in 2010, you were inside the top ten in the world.  
PAUL CASEY: Seventh.   
 Q.  There's a possibility that could happen to Bubba tonight.  You're the only person in the world who could empathize what he may go through if he's not a pick.  What was that night or that day like when you never got picked?  
PAUL CASEY: Hopefully Davis called him because Colin never called me, but we'll see.   
 Q.  Will you watch it next week?  
PAUL CASEY: Yeah, I will.  It's cool.  It's really cool.   
 Q.  What do you reckon?  
PAUL CASEY: I don't know.  It's going to be -- I don't know.  Prediction of score?  No idea.  U.S. team looks very strong.  I think the team in '81 at Horton Heath looked a little stronger than what Davis has now, but it does look a very good team on paper.   
Whatever happens today, whether that's Bubba or Kevin or Ryan -- because that's who it looks like right now.  I don't know.  I mean -- I know the stats, and I know there's silly stats like something like only 7 percent of rookies win their singles match, and Europe has five rookies or six rookies.  So you start to look at that.  It's tough when you look at certain statistics, the important statistics.   
But I know how good Europe is in the team room.  I know how good captain Clarke will be.  It's a crap shoot.  It will be great TV, though.  I'd kind of like to be playing.   
 Q.  Even more so after today, right?  
PAUL CASEY: Yeah, it was good fun.   
 Q.  Have they changed Hazeltine a lot since you finished fourth in the NCAAs?  
PAUL CASEY: It's been a long time since I finished fourth in the NCAAs.  Luke won it.   
 Q.  Lucas Glover was second?  
PAUL CASEY: Yeah, Charlie Howell was up there, Charlie "Three-Sticks," Lucas Glover, Derek Gillespie.  I've got a photograph of a whole bunch of us.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT