WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 23, 2015
Paul Casey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Paul, another solid round of golf today. Come up a little short. Tell us about your round out there today.  
PAUL CASEY: Started off great. Left myself some difficult putts but, you know, had a load of opportunities and really just stumbled through, you know, the start of the back-9 which was unfortunate.   
Pulled a tough lie on 11 and made a mess of 12 and I thought that time of day it was tough because the wind was swirling and picked up a little bit and I found it difficult out there.  
But to be honest, I've had a great week. I've played well. Just unfortunate I didn't have enough fire power to catch the rest guys.  
   
 Q. You mentioned having a great week. You talked about earlier in the week being in good form heading into the FedExCup Playoffs.   
How important is that?  
PAUL CASEY: Very important. I've only been to Atlanta once. I would love an opportunity to win the FedExCup. I put myself in a good position starting out in The Playoffs but, as we know, you got to play well in The Playoffs and, you know, if I can carry this form into next week and beyond I'd be very, very happy.   
I'm feeling like I still got stuff to work on, you know, there were definitely a couple of loose shots, things I can just tidy up and improve and that's the nice feeling to feel like I'm not firing on all cylinders with great weeks coming up ahead.  
   
 Q. Give a comment on Davis?  
PAUL CASEY: He really needs to pad the pension account, doesn't he? I played with -- I'll leave the player unnamed but somebody said to me, might have been the caddy, "Why is Davis playing this week?" And I looked up at the score, I said, "That's because he's 8 ahead of you."   
I don't know what day that was. So, yeah, brilliant. Just shows, doesn't it? I don't think this is an easy golf course. I've always thought Davis is one of the best ball-strikers in the world of golf. You have to hit it brilliantly around here if you're going to compete. To answer that player's question or caddy's question as to why he's playing, "Why wouldn't you?"   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT