WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 6, 2015
Paul Casey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Your score was ten less (inaudible) --  PAUL CASEY: My score is ten less?  Is that why you tried to commit Harry Caray and missed?   Q.  What did you do?  PAUL CASEY: I was in Italy.  I was on a boat, and then I went cycling, and I drank a lot of wine.   Q.  Where were you in Italy?  PAUL CASEY: Lake Garda, Verona and then up in the Dolomites, Colvera, up in the mountains.  It was nice.  Very refreshed, very unprepared for this week and very happy that I shot 68. But I'm playing good golf.  I got five in a row and then touched wood seven out of eight weeks all the way through to the TOUR Championship.  That's the plan. It's nice to come into this week feeling very refreshed, feeling like I've got a lot of work to do.  It's actually something I quite like rather than being burnt out and not ready for this final push.   Q.  (Inaudible)?  PAUL CASEY: A win would be nice.  I've had a couple of opportunities so far this year.  Not disappointed with -- not disappointed with the way I've played.  Disappointed not to get a win.  But the final round at Travelers was wonderful.  I didn't play the playoff the way I wanted to.  Very much focusing ahead, and I feel like that win, if I get things together, I can get one before the season's out, certainly before the year is out.   Q.  If you come into this week feeling a little bit unprepared, how are you able to play as well as you did?  PAUL CASEY: I know this place fairly well.  What surprised me the most was the putting was -- I thought the putting would be okay, and the putting was not great.  I thought the speed control was a little bit off.  I know I had a three putt in there on the 7th, which wasn't great, because I had a good tee shot. I thought the ball striking was going to be the thing I struggled with, and that was the best.  I hit the ball beautifully off the tee.  I think I saw over 70 percent of the fairways today.  So very pleasantly surprised, but I do know this place well, and I know where to position the golf ball -- if you're not going to hit it well, I know where to put it. Like I did on 18, I left myself a relatively easy up and down for par.  So that comes with experience.   Q.  Were you surprised there weren't lower scores out there, especially for the morning?  PAUL CASEY: This the firmest I've ever seen this play, at least by memory.  Firestone for me the last couple of years has typically been quite lush.  The fairways have played quite wide because they've been soft, the greens the same way.  Most guys are worried about spinning the ball off the front of the green, and that's not the case.  You're trying to gauge how much it's going to release today. I think that plays into the hands of the guys who maybe can shape the ball off the tee both ways because of the sloping fairways you've got here, trying to hold them.  And maybe the guys who have got great trajectory control and great iron play, so they can get the ball close to the pin because you can't throw darts like you used to around here.  It's tough, and I like tough.   Q.  (Inaudible)?  PAUL CASEY: Twice.  Come on, Bernie, do your homework.  '04 and then when Kaymer won.   Q.  (Inaudible)?  PAUL CASEY: Yeah, it's keep it out of the bunkers.  I don't believe I've played it particularly well at Whistling Straits, but I quite like it.  We'll see what the weather gets, if it's nice and warm.  If it's warm, it will help because you've got to carry the ball a long way off the tee.  If you can carry it a long way, you've got a massive advantage around there.  Drives like 18, you can take the left side out of play.  So warm weather would be -- I'm not getting any longer.  So that would be nice.   Q.  (Inaudible)?  PAUL CASEY: What's that?   Q.  (Inaudible)?  PAUL CASEY: That just shows I've been out here too long, Bernie.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT