WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
May 3, 2015
Paul Casey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PAUL CASEY:   Saw my lunch again last night.   Yeah, I was sick overnight.   Just very weak.   Actually I hit two great shots into 1.   I got a very sticky lie on the back of the green.   Rory made a 1 for birdie.   It is what it is.  
It's funny the place it affected me most was actually just looking down on the short chips.   I felt kind of nauseous looking down.   But I've got nothing to complain about.   I had an opportunity yesterday and didn't shut the door, and then he gave me an opportunity yesterday when it was getting dark again to keep this thing going and that's golf.   That's life.   
   
 Q.   Saying that, how disappointing, how frustrating to have this situation bring it to an end?  
PAUL CASEY:   It's unfortunate, but in seasons as long as ours, there are moments through the year when occasionally you get sick.   So it is what it is.   
I'm a big fan of beware of the injured golfer or the sick golfer.   Probably the two best shots I've hit into this week.   So my expectations were low, but they didn't stop me from trying.   And I'm not going to put the par down to anything other than actually knocked it on the green in two.   Maybe I should have finished it yesterday.   
   
 Q.   First of all, your physical condition, what was it like down there on the first tee and playing that entire first hole?  
PAUL CASEY:   It's the worst I've felt in a long time and the best I've played it.   I was unfortunately sick overnight, so just very weak today.   Still feel a little nauseous, which is‑‑ when you're giving up ten yards anyway to Rory and then you stand on that first tee not in the best form, felt like giving up 20 or 30 yards to him today.  
But I'm a big fan of beware of the injured golfer or sick golfer.   And I actually hit two very good golf shots in there and thought I could beat him today.   My main concern was actually getting past this match and then looking ahead how I would last the rest of the day.   I don't have to worry about that now.   It is what it is.  
   
 Q.   Standing on the fairway did you ever dream you could actually hit the ball over the green and end in the situation you did behind the hole?  
PAUL CASEY:   No.   You probably know the yardage, 270 or so.   No chance.   I think it's an example that when your expectations are low and sometimes good things happen.   
But I'm not disappointed.   I mean this is unfortunate, but I've still had a great week, great to be in San Francisco.   It's a golf course I've never played before.   I love match play, great to be back in this event.   I've got a lot of positives to take out of it.   But I'm looking forward to getting to Florida and getting some sunshine next week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT