MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2015
Paul Casey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PAUL CASEY:   Happy.   Some good par saves today, No. 2 and No. 9, which kept the round going. 
I played wonderful golf.   I really have.   I actually struck it better today than I did yesterday.   And, yeah, I must admit, it is tough out there.   I think the cloud cover stopped the golf course from drying out.   But I've never felt this golf course could yield a 14‑under.   I'm actually amazed.   Ecstatic at the way I'm playing, but amazed at the way Jordan is playing out there.   Amazing stuff. 

Q.   You were shaking your head‑on 18.   Obviously it rumbled, did you feel that play should have been called?
PAUL CASEY:   I'm not the one sitting there with all the equipment.   I don't like rumbles, but I also ‑‑ I know that we're going to be taken care of.   So I wasn't worried.   I was sort of impressed that we were still safe.   But there's enough technology around and there's people that are monitoring it, they're not going to let us‑‑ they're not going to put us in a dangerous situation. 

Q.   But it's distracting, isn't it?
PAUL CASEY:   It was more than distracting, exactly that.   I had a difficult enough putt as it was on 18.   Slight miscue on a wonderful drive.   And maybe it was a good distraction, take away how difficult that putt was. 

Q.   It was a lovely putt, wasn't it? 
PAUL CASEY:   It was a great putt.   Learned a little bit from Hideki.   And I've been around here enough.   I know the spots around these greens.   I've got a good feel for them, always have.   Always loved putting out here, because it's pure imagination.   You have to throw the technique out of the window.   And I'm not one where my technique isn't perfect, I know that.   And I can kind of relax and just feel the putts and that's what I did on 18. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
PAUL CASEY:   Seven back.   It's actually really nice and relaxing, because there's no pressure.   Because all you have to do is you have to try to take it on and push a little bit more.   This golf course has always required you to push.   You're rewarded when‑‑ always felt that great golf shots are rewarded at Augusta National.   Good golf shots result in pars, but great golf shots are what you need to hit to make birdies around here.   And Jordan is sticking the tiger out there for everybody to chase.   And I feel absolutely no pressure because I'm halfway there (laughter) and probably by far the best two round score I've posted at the Masters. 
So I'm just going to enjoy it and if he keeps cracking on ahead then this is his or maybe Charley is right behind him.   But it looks like it's a two or three horse race right now.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT