NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 22, 2015
Paul Casey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PAUL CASEY:   First of all, I'm happy with 68.   Best round of the week for me.   It's funny, the thing I've been working on the most is the putting and that's the thing that was actually really quite good today and this week, and the ball‑striking which has been phenomenal.   
The start of the year was pretty horrific at times.   I'm still happy with the way I played overall, and really excited if I can put that ball‑striking or good ball‑striking together with the way I putted this week, then I think I can post some really good finishes, even better than this week.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you're trending in the right direction?  
PAUL CASEY:   Yeah, very much so.   The way I started Hawai'i with the opening round, low one there, I putted wonderfully and hit it great and scored great.   
Since then, it's been a bit of a struggle.   Just not putted well.   And so I've not taken my eye off the ball‑striking by any means but worked very, very hard, diligent working on the putting, struck upon something, something revolutionary, just a bit of hard work that maybe I had not been putting in the hours, and it's been great since.   
Very much feel happy with the game.   It's very much going the right direction, and it's a pleasure to be out there and back in the mix and get the juices flowing.   
   
 Q.   18?   
PAUL CASEY:   Just bad ball‑striking.   That was just a shocking tee shot.   I was really enjoying being in the mix.   The poor shots I hit‑‑ I shanked one on 13, a whole bunch of miscues in terms of ball‑striking.   
And 18 was just a bad drive.   Simple as that.   Didn't help that it kicked right.   So I'm not frustrated‑‑ it's disappointing to finish with a bogey but you know, I made plenty of other unforced errors as the week kind of panned out, so I can't just focus on 18 right now.   
   
 Q.   Was the weather a factor at the end?   
PAUL CASEY:   When it was crap.   I mean, that was horrible on 17.   It's just‑‑ not really.   It wasn't a factor.   If anything it made the pitch shot on 17 easier because the ball skidded the first time it touched the green.   It didn't affect me in any way, so I can't blame the weather for finishing with a bogey.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT