THE BARCLAYS
August 21, 2014
Paul Casey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PAUL CASEY:   I was trying to get as far around the corner as possible and I did that nicely, stuck in the hazard.   Very fortunate, I had a playable lie out of the hazard and chipped it out and gave myself a birdie opportunity in the end. 
Thought it was worth going for it.   We're only Thursday.   Wasn't trying to make as many birdies as I can and a tricky par putt on the last which I'm trying to be very happy to finish with a par and ecstatic with the way I played.   It was really, really solid.   Hit a lot of fairways and hit a lot of greens and it was probably one of the easiest 66s I've had in a long time. 

Q.   You're kind of in a weird position on The European Tour and this tour and obviously FedEx, and I think I read just the other day how you obviously want to play as many of these as you can.   Does it feel like a weird position?
PAUL CASEY:   And I'm going to be a dad in about two weeks, which also‑‑ that takes priority. 
Yeah, I've still got to play another four events in Europe to meet my minimum requirement.   And I'd love to play a couple of events in the fall, as well.   And then become a dad.   So how do you squeeze that in? 
Becoming a dad is No. 1 priority, and the rest will fall into place.   So my schedule is still fluid.   I think that's the most difficult thing.   It's still up in the air.   It would be nice to solidify that, but it is what it is.   You know, just getting here this week was very much a goal of mine, and I actually felt quite flat Monday through Wednesday.   I wasn't sure what I was practicing for.   I was just kind of going through the motions. 
Not until I really got out here today, did I feel that I had sort of realigned myself with a goal for the week.   Yeah, last week, not been in that position before, and it was mildly stressful.   You know, very glad to get through it, and so I think today was probably a product of really not having really any expectations and just going out there and smashing it around and having fun, because very little to prove. 

Q.   Now that you're in, do you have any added expectations?   Obviously want to play into it as far as you can.   So does that change things in that respect. 
PAUL CASEY:   The ideal scenario would be get myself into the TOUR championship, if I could, as soon as possible, maybe take a week or two off, and then come back.   And if that doesn't happen, the other goals of still trying to get as high in the FedExCup as I can; I though there's a cutoff for events like Colonial and Memorial, I think sort of 80th or so is probably a cutoff number for those kind of events.   That's a massive goal, trying to get up there, as well.

Q.   What's the due date on the baby? 
PAUL CASEY:   The 14th of September but it's going to be early for various reasons. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT