PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2013
Paul Casey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PAUL CASEY:   Really happy with that.   3‑under was fantastic.   Could have gone either way, the back nine was tricky.   Probably the key was a par save on No.18 which allowed me to keep going on the front nine and hit some wonderful shots, but did get lucky.   A couple of really long putts on No. 5 and No. 7 which cleaned up the scorecard a lot.   A little better than it felt, so I feel like maybe a couple of shots better than I should have been. 
But room for improvement and off and running and I'm happy with that.

Q.   Did the numbers so far surprise you at all? 
PAUL CASEY:   No.   The reason being, the greens are going to be good the first wave out.   The course is so receptive, if you knock it down the middle, give yourself some good numbers, you can be very aggressive to the flag, so the good numbers are not surprising whatsoever.   If the greens don't spike up too badly this afternoon, I see no reason why guys can't be shooting low. 

Q.   Are you feeling better from your head cold?
PAUL CASEY:   I am, thank you.   Feeling much better. 

Q.   It restricted your practice quite a lot, didn't it? 
PAUL CASEY:   It did, but maybe being a little sick and staying away from the golf course‑‑ I was here on Tuesday, but I didn't practice on Tuesday and maybe that was the best thing I could have done.   I played very early yesterday, teed off about 6:30,6:   40.   Maybe it was the best thing I could have done was to save the energy for today, and I did feel fresh.   Legs felt pretty good.   There is no sort of residual feelings from what I've had.   The main thing is the ears were blocked over the weekend. 

Q.   The good scores‑‑
PAUL CASEY:   Not always, but I did today, for some unknown reason.   I was excited to get out there.   I think‑‑ I like the golf course.   I do think it's difficult.   It's an incredibly tough finish. 
Yeah, it doesn't get any better than early out on a Thursday morning with a receptive golf course and good greens.   You've got an opportunity to make a number; that's at time. 

Q.   You said you missed being in the big events.   Since The Irish Open, do you feel‑‑
PAUL CASEY:   Without sounding sort of cocky, yeah, I guess I feel like‑‑ I enjoy it out here; I belong out here; I love it out here.   Having missed so many, it feels like a lot, for a year and a half, I'm very appreciative being back on the big stage.   I felt very conscious of that at the U.S. Open when I qualified at Walton Heath.   Couldn't have been any more excited than I was. 
It's a classic tale of you don't realize how much you miss something until it's gone. 

Q.   Can you talk about how good you're feeling‑‑
PAUL CASEY:   I don't remember much of it.   I remember playing with Woody Austin coming down the last and I remember him out driving me.   I hit a brilliant drive down 18 and he was 20 yards past me.   Not sure what was going on.
That was very early in my career.   Probably my second‑‑ my second U.S. major, and I really didn't know what to expect.   I was very much a rookie, and maybe a little out of my depth just not knowing how to play these golf courses.   It can be a scarring experience if you're not ready for it. 

Q.   How long were the putts on 5 and 7? 
PAUL CASEY:   5 was probably 50 feet maybe.   I was in the left hand sort of intermediate‑‑ there's so many different levels but a couple of grades into the rough, it's a couple of inches thick and I had to play to the right edge of the green.   I played it exactly where I wanted to, and I knew it was going to be a tough 2‑putt and to go in was a bonus. 
7, same thing, putted to the back middle, probably 30,33 feet, and that's not a massive bomb, but considering the tee shot I thought I may have went into the hazard on the right, I thought it could be a very difficult four or have to settle to five; so to walk off with a birdie was massive. 

Q.   Good to see your name up there again? 
PAUL CASEY:   Been a while since my name's been up there.   Yeah, it felt very good.   I actually just wanted to gauge and see what was going on and see how Garrigus finished.   He was the group in front and I saw he had some issues on the par3, No. 6.   Just wanted to check it out. 
I expect people to shoot lower than that today, maybe some 5‑unders, something like that, a couple of those out there.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT