U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2013
Paul Casey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Three good rounds?  
PAUL CASEY:   Yeah, I'm extremely happy with that.   I hadgood control of the golf ball today, which was key.   I think it was I'm going to get about 16 greens in regulation today, which was a key for playing solid golf.   I also made a couple of putts.  
   
 Q.   How did the course play today compared to the last couple of days?  
PAUL CASEY:   Today was dry but still receptive on the greens.   I actually think if it wasn't for the pin positions, today is a scoring day.   The pin positions are brutal, as they always are.   And 17 caught everybody in my group off guard.   It's a pin that would scare you if it was a hundred yard par‑3.   We have 250 yards to go.  
That's the only thing holding the scores back is the trickiness of this golf course, the greatness of this golf course.  
   
 Q.   When you see all the other scores, you've got to feel pretty good with what you did?  
PAUL CASEY:   I haven't seen them yet.   I mean I can see the leaders, but I haven't seen a TV screen or looked at a computer and the scores behind us to know where I stand.   It looks likemaybe I'm kind of one or so down under par, but that's about it.   That highlights how difficult this is.  
1‑over is not bad in a U.S. Open.  
   
 Q.   What does it say for this course?   It's a short course and yet nobody is shooting under par?  
PAUL CASEY:   It was cracking all the guys up at the beginning of the week.   Guys like Frank Nobilo saying it's going to be 62s or 63s around here.   And we didn't know which golf course he was talking about, because we knew this was going to be a brutal test.  
I love the fact that this is a short golf course, and it's providing us with ‑‑ it's making my hair go gray, that's all I know.   Golf courses don't have to be long to be difficult.   This is a wonderful example of that.   Maybe the best hole out there would be something like 13, as well, the shortest hole on the golf course.   It's wonderful.  
I'd love that we could come back to more and more short golf courses just as this.  
   
 Q.   Going into the final round, do you think even par could win this thing?  
PAUL CASEY:   Certainly.   It's all up to Mike Davis and his crew to give us the examination paper.   That's all going to be pin positions tomorrow and how many times they roll these greens.   The weather is cooperating right now.   The golf course couldn't be in better shape considering what they've gone through the beginning of this week and late last week.   All the staff and everybody here have done an unbelievable job.   This is brilliant.   But we'll see.   I think level par‑‑ I'd take level par.   It may not win, but I'd certainly take it now.   
   
 Q.   Do you think with the rough and how hard the pin placements are, it's torture?   
PAUL CASEY:   It's what we love to do.   It's a little torturous, but I enjoy the challenge and I think the rest of the guys do.   I think the fans appreciate how difficult this is, as well.   They get an idea of how difficult this place is.   Yeah, it's a thrill to play a golf course like this.   
   
 Q.   There's a 19‑year‑old amateur playing in his first U.S. Open, he's tied for third right now.   Your reaction to that?  
PAUL CASEY:   That's amazing stuff, that really is.   Yeah, it's phenomenal.   It took me years to figure out how to play a U.S. Open golf course and then you've got to develop the maturity to deal with the ups and downs and the breaks that you're given in a championship like this.   So the fact that he's currently running third ‑‑ we've seen amateurs have great results through the years.   
One guy is up on the leaderboard, Justin Rose, he knows what it's like to be in I a Major Championship as a teenager.  
   
 Q.   This is a national championship as a teenager?  
PAUL CASEY:   Yeah, I couldn't imagine doing that at my age.  
   
 Q.   Going into tomorrow with a lot of people having a chance of being bunched up and how tough it is, and maybe even a little tougher tomorrow, how exciting is the finish?  
PAUL CASEY:   I think it's going to be great, it really is.   And it's a brutal finish.   It's not going to be won with a flush of birdies coming down the stretch.   Majors are meant to be the ultimate test, and the U.S. Open probably is that ultimate test of golf.   So I hope Mike Davis is somewhat gentle and gives us a glimmer of hope.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT