ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 17, 2012
Paul Casey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  STEVE TODD:   Many thanks for joining us, winning in Australia, 2003, I think ten years ago now, 2003.     Just your thoughts on being back and in Australia again.   
PAUL CASEY:   It's great to be back.   I love Australia.   Perth's a great city.   You know, I thought I would remember the golf course from the 2003 Johnnie Walker; you'd have to look at my record to see when I last played here, and I don't remember a thing.   
It's great, wonderful part of the world.   People are fantastic, and fun being here.   
STEVE TODD:   You played this morning; the last time you played at Dunhill Links, you got delayed by the dog; any kangaroos?  
PAUL CASEY:     They have taken a lot of them off the golf course.   No, nothing crazy, good Pro‑Am group, nice chance to see the golf course.   I thought it was playing brilliantly.   Seems to be in great shape, all credit to the greens staff.   I enjoyed it out there and the weather was lovely.   Enough wind to keep away the flies.   
STEVE TODD:   Obviously coming back from the shoulder injury, what's the status of how you're getting on and your confidence level?   
PAUL CASEY:   Shoulder is great and body feels fantastic, and health is‑‑ I don't know if we are ever 100 percent but I feel like I'm 100 per cent.   Been working extremely hard at the game and starting to play some nice golf.   Dunhill, I did miss the cut and had the tougher side of the draw and played some nice golf.   Last week I was in Korea and finished third there.   Things are very much going in the right direction.   
   
 Q.   What caused the delay ‑‑  
PAUL CASEY:   Fell a little bit behind in my group.   Hit a couple of loose shots on last couple of holes.   But a few birdies, a few bogeys, something like even par‑‑ scratching my head as to how Ernie had 29‑under around here or whatever he shot.   A little bit unfamiliar with the golf course, sort of blind tee shots figuring out where to go and I got a couple wrong today.   But my ball‑striking was pretty good.   
   
 Q.   (So you did play here before)?  
PAUL CASEY:   I did, yeah.   I may have been here briefly because I don't remember my results.   Maybe I was only here for a couple of days, I don't know.   
   
 Q.   (How did you injure the shoulder)?  
PAUL CASEY:   Came about very abruptly when I crashed my snowboard.   I dislocated my shoulder right at the end of last year, and it turned out to be a lot more‑‑ it was a fairly good duplication, and rehab took a little bit longer than I thought.   
And I think getting my golf game back and trusting the shoulder, took a lot longer than I ever thought it would take.   That's been the physical side of it.   And the mental side of it, trusting the shoulder‑‑ it's had a knock‑on effect this year which has been frustrating.  
But in hindsight, maybe it's one of the best snowball crashes I've ever had because it allowed me to really de construct my golf game and go through and look at everything and see what I need to do and what I need to work on to be as good a player as I can be.   This year has been very frustrating, and obviously it was my own fault; but I feel very good sitting here about the way things are going now and the way the future is looking.   
   
 Q.   (Will you go snowboarding again_?  
PAUL CASEY:   I'm not sure I'll go snowboarding this season.   I haven't sold the snowboard, still got it.   
   
 Q.   Where?   
PAUL CASEY:   Vail, Colorado.   
   
 Q.   How did it happen?  
PAUL CASEY:   Very benign, didn't hit the ground that hard.   It was more of a case of the arm, more of a slow motion, catch the edge‑‑ if you've ever been snow skiing or snowboarding and seeing snowboards catch an edge, usually they go down very quickly, unlike skiing where you kind of save yourself.   
I tried to save myself and in the process, grabbed my right arm along the ground as I was going down, and I heard something go, which wasn't a very pleasant sound, sort of muscles tearing and squelching.   Got up, thought I was all right, tried to lift my arm, couldn't lift my arm.   Knew I had done something.   
About an hour later down in the Vail Medical Center, had the X‑ray and told it was dislocatedrather than ‑‑ I didn't know whether I had broken or separated the shoulder or the AC joint.   
Was told it was just a dislocation, put back in the socket and went back in very, very easily which I thought was good.   For a moment, even went through my mind, maybe I can get away with not telling my coach, Peter Kostis I didn't do anything, because the pain was excruciating; it was sort of a ten on the pain skill, and the pain went away instantly when it went back in the socket.   
Yeah, I thought it would be fairly benign sort of injury to get over, but little did I know.   
   
 Q.   What was the rehab like?   
PAUL CASEY:   Rehab takes about four months.   First is rest and then it's‑‑ rest, get the inflammation down, let the muscles tighten up a little bit, not to risk dislocating it again.   Each of the muscles need correct sequencing, so that's important, and then build up the strength slowly after that.   
I mean, I don't feel limited on anything right now.   I mean, probably throwing is the one thing that's slightly wary of.   I always had a good arm when I was a kid.     That would be something; I wouldn't like to go out and throw a cricket ball around right now.   
I think that's where my rehab was great.   I had a great guy, great doctor and therapist involved.   I think even four months into it, if you said, can you go out and throw a cricket ball around, for example, I would go, I'm not sure I can.   
So allowing somebody to perform in the athletic arena to the best of their ability‑‑ I think that's why my golf struggled, I felt right and I could do everything I wanted with it, but had to have that power and that sort of‑‑ in the golf swing.   I probably only now am I willing to really let that arm go and feel the jolt that you feel.   
   
 Q.   Inaudible.  
PAUL CASEY:   Yeah, you tear the labrum when it comes out.   I told the labrum, it was a serious dislocation, and then I had to‑‑ inaudible‑‑ coming out of the top of the bone.   If I dislocate it again, yes, but no, first dislocation, typically you don't need surgery.   It's different if you're playing obviously‑‑ well, football, you're running around hitting each other, aren't you.   Get in there and screw it down so it doesn't come out again.   
With golf, there's absolutely no reason to do that.   I still ride my bike and things like that; if I run down the street and fall down the stairs, the possibility is there, but touch wood, you know, that hasn't happened.   
   
 Q.   Inaudible.  
PAUL CASEY:   I'd say physical starting the season and I probably wasn't aware that there was a mental block there, as well, letting it go.   Then got to a point where the physical side of things‑‑ and then I'm aware that I was still mentally not willing to let it go and trust it.   Perhaps three months recovery‑‑ six months.   To be honest recently, August, starting to let it go.   Maybe even sort of Holland, which is only a month ago, September time, even then.   
I'm not sort of‑‑ to me, it's very much looking forward, so I'm trying not to get back to the golf I was playing.   Sort of 2.0 version, see how good‑‑ I might be better than I was before.   But hitting shots in Holland or Dunhill or Korea last week, I'm going, this isn't how I used to hit it.   But now there's a sound coming back and speed is coming back and distance, and it's quite good fun.   But it's not a case of getting back.   It's a case of ‑‑ and I think I have even more speed than I have before.   I can hit it further and with more distance and more accurate.   
   
 Q.   (Was there a moment when you felt)‑‑  
PAUL CASEY:   I think it happened gradually.   I think there's just moments when it started to‑‑ there's been several moments over the last month or two.   
   
 Q.   (How much pressure have you put on yourself to get back)‑‑  
PAUL CASEY:   I think I've probably put a little bit too much pressure on myself from when I returned to say middle of summertime, and so right now there's absolutely no‑‑ very little pressure on myself.   
Obviously I want to come down here and perform well and give myself a chance to win a golf tournament Sunday afternoon.   But I'm not going to sit here and‑‑ it's what I want to achieve this week.   I'm not going to hype it up in any way, because I've been putting so much pressure on myself, anyway, that that's been detrimental.   
So the goal is go out there, make a ton of birdies and go out and enjoy myself and have a great time and enjoy the crowds on a great golf course.   
   
 Q.   Inaudible.  
PAUL CASEY:   Yeah, not too far ahead‑‑ I'm not going to come down here and use this as a springboard for next season.   I mean, there's a lot of great events, including this one, that I'm playing in before the season's out.   I'll be in China next week and Singapore and places like that before the end of the season.   
Especially with having a chance to win last week in Korea, you know, okay, it was the Korean Tour, but there's some good players in the field and being in the mix and competing, and it was fun again.   I was frustrated‑‑ because I had a chance to win and I didn't win.   But I've got to remember, I haven't been in that situation for a few months, so I made a couple of mistakes, and, fine.   
So yeah, I still think I can win a golf tournament or two before the season's out.   But I'm very much looking at the bigger picture of where I'm going.   
   
 Q.   (Thoughts on how it felt to be in contention again).  
PAUL CASEY:   I feel it‑‑ I made a couple of mistakes last week but I feel it.   It's a little bit like riding a bike; I know how to win golf tournaments, and I feel pretty comfortable if I'm I've given a chance and I'm standing in the fairway and I have to make a birdie to beat whoever it is in the field, I feel that I have a pretty good chance of pulling it off; not saying I'm going to do it.   
   
 Q.   What are your goals now?  
PAUL CASEY:   Obviously get back in the Top‑50 and get back up in the World Rankings.   That's another one of the things I was looking at and worried about, and now I haven't looked at them for a while.   I know I've dropped significantly but the last sort of‑‑ since like 2009, I seem to have been beating myself up with injuries and time to stop doing that and moving forward.   
So my World Ranking isn't much of a concern right now.   Obviously you don't want to be outside the Top‑50.   
   
 Q.   Inaudible.  
PAUL CASEY:   The beauty of this game is the constant pressure because you're only as good as your last performance.   In fact, it moves on so fast, we have got another shot, another golf hole to play, another tournament to try and win; the up‑and‑downs of the game come very quickly.   So just when you think you're getting some, where golf seems to put you in check.  
So the golf I was playing‑‑ what I'm excited about, the golf I was playing in the beginning of 2009, was great, the best golf I've ever played.   I had three wins by May.   Climbed up the World Rankings very quickly and then picked up the rib injury when I tore all the muscles in my ribs in July.   
Now I just want to get back to a point where I'm playing that level of golf and I think I can be better than I was at that stage.   Where that puts me in the world, I have no idea, with guys like Luke and Rory playing amazing golf‑‑ maybe I get to fifth or two or higher, I have no idea.   And that's not much of a worry.   It's just finding that level of golf that I know is buried inside.   
STEVE TODD:   Thanks for joining us, Paul.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT