FRYS.COM OPEN
October 8, 2011
Paul Casey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Thanks for joining us. 3-under, 68 today. Just talk a little bit about the day. Obviously a nice way to finish the day with the save on the last. Talk about the day as a whole and then we'll go to questions.  
 PAUL CASEY: It was a great way to finish it. Felt a little bit frustrated out there. You know, wasn't swinging the club that freely on the front nine, but still gave myself a lot of chances. Sort of was grinding along.   
 The back nine was a little better with the ball striking. The one thing that got me today was the putter, just not striking the ball well with the putter. Struggled on these greens.   
 Kind of what was funny on the last hole, just really after knocking it in the hazard, taking a drop and knocking it a good wedge in really just didn't even read the putt too hard. Just looked and went ahh. Maybe I've over-read everything today. Walked up to it, striked it beautifully, it went in the middle. Maybe that was an illustration that today was maybe a little too much effort going into it.  
  
  Q. How much confidence do you take out of last week?   
 PAUL CASEY: I take a lot of confidence out of last week. Not just the win but I felt that the game is coming back to where I want it to be. The ball striking was good and I found a way of winning that golf tournament. I know it was, you know, the Korean golf Tour, wasn't the PGA Tour, but a win is a win. Still coming down the stretch, the same juices flow. And it was nice to be back in that environment again. I kind of forgotten how to do it a little bit so far this year. It came back very quickly, and I think that -- there's no doubt that the reason I'm up there this week is because of that.   
  
  Q. What do you make of a guy who's been trying to win for 347 tournaments?   
 PAUL CASEY: What was the question, Doug?   
  
  Q. How difficult do you think that would be?   
 PAUL CASEY: I have no idea. And I play with Briny many times. He's a great player. I honestly can't answer that question. I don't know. It's tough enough for me to decipher what's going through my own brain.   
  
  Q. Are you playing better this week than you did when you won in the desert earlier this year hitting it wise?  
 PAUL CASEY: Yeah.  
  
  Q. How so? Just all through the bag?   
 PAUL CASEY: Yeah. Ball striking really. I really steered it around that week. Did a brilliant job of managing a fairly very average week with the driver, with most of the clubs in the bag. That win was purely sort of internal because the physical part of it wasn't -- I didn't have it. To be honest, this whole year has been that way. Even though that's the best performance I had this year by far, maybe before I noticed the injury in May, maybe there was signs of that sort of -- something wrong with the body. To be honest even last year, I don't think I've ever fully got my ball striking back to where I wanted it after the 2009 season where I tore my intercostal. I really don't thing my ball striking has been back to where it was in early 2009. It's starting to show signs of getting back there.  
  
  Q. Kostis said you kind of tweaked your swing to take the pressure off your toe. Is that a minor thing, major thing? Did it take a while?   
 PAUL CASEY: We did. It was a difficult thing. I basically started hitting it with the hands and the arms. Now since he said that, we really diagnosed how to treat the problem. And as I mentioned yesterday with the joints and the ankle, now we've got that to move correctly. It's kind of funny, my footwork has never been quite where I've wanted it or he's wanted it. He said to me -- that was the thing he wanted to work on was getting that footwork as good as it can be. So in a round about, way it's brought this or that issue right to the forefront.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 PAUL CASEY: Again, I mean I don't pay too much attention. That surprises me. You know, I played with him in Canada this year. And there his ball striking again looked good. I know he struggled with the putter that week. But you know, even when Ernie is not on his game, he's Ernie Els. You expect the guy to win a couple of times a year around the world. So yes, it does surprise me.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)   
 PAUL CASEY: I'm not a fan of the long putters, of being able to attach the golf club to another part of the body other than the hand. But never say never. I tend to keep my mouth shut. I'm not a fan of it. Who knows? Get down the road and -- I've actually practiced with basically a longer version of my putter sticking in the belly and kind of like it. For as long as I can, I'm going to resist. But you've got to do what you've got to do to get the golf ball in the hole. Ultimately -- I resisted the 5-wood for a long time. There was a specific moment on the golf course. I remember it vividly. I was playing with Tiger and we hit a very similar place in the fairway in Shanghai. I had a ball sitting down just a little bit, so was his. He had a 5-wood and knocked it on the green in two and went on to make birdie. I tried to dig out. I didn't have the 5-wood; I had a 2-iron. Didn't quite pull it off, rolled down the bank, finished in the edge of the water. I think I made 6. I'm just trying not having that club in the bag, the hybrid or 5-wood, whatever it is, I felt it cost me a shot, maybe two. So I sacked my 2-iron and put in a 5-wood. So yeah, I'm kind of with Ernie. Maybe I've been chuckling at guys using, but I'm going to keep my mouth shut because you never know.  
  
  Q. What was the prize last week?   
 PAUL CASEY: It's about $166,000.   
  
  Q. Sounds better the other way?  
 PAUL CASEY: It sounds great. I emailed my accountant.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 PAUL CASEY: Early on in the round, if I've not -- I get a little quick with the body and come up onto that toe and it hurts. The first tee shot I actually tweaked it a little bit. As I relaxed and the round went on it got better and better.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 PAUL CASEY: Walking uphill hurts it.   
 THE MODERATOR: Paul, thanks for your time.      
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT