THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2020
Paul Casey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What's your reaction to what's gone on the last 24 hours, kind of your thoughts?  
PAUL CASEY: Yeah, it's been a strange one, hasn't it? Firstly, I think without question, the right decision. Yesterday was a strange one. I teed off early, so the vibe just wasn't right. You could sense with the great crowds that we always get here, just it wasn't -- it was just sort of an underlying feeling that just -- was this the right thing? Events obviously moved rapidly after that to where we stand right now.   
 Q.  Talk about the Masters being postponed this year; reaction to that.  
PAUL CASEY: Not surprised. Yeah, not surprised at all. You know, this is now a pandemic. The ladies and gentlemen that run that great event have very smart minds and are taking the right precautions.   
 Q.  Is this all kind of surreal with everything that's going on in the world right now that everything has kind of come to a halt?  
PAUL CASEY: Yeah, I think we as a collective in the golf community felt that we were taking the necessary precautions and it was important to continue. But obviously it got to a tipping point and we realized that that's not the right thing to be doing.   
Is it surreal? Yeah, it's very strange. You know, right now everybody's thoughts are going to be with their family and friends and taking the necessary precautions and staying calm. I just got an email from my friends at UNICEF, you know, making sure you get your information from reliable sources. Yeah, life is going to change a little bit for the foreseeable future.   
 Q.  Does it feel weird not knowing the next time you're going to tee it up on the PGA TOUR?  
PAUL CASEY: That's strange. Yeah, like what am I going to do for the next four weeks? Can't go to Disneyland, can I? Yeah, that's odd. You know, we'll see. We're always kept abreast by Jay and his great staff. And everybody in the golf community is always very forthcoming with information, trying to be as far out with their information as possible. What do we do? I'll probably shut it down for a couple weeks, maybe think about sort of getting ready if we start again maybe sometime in April. But I just don't know. None of us know, do we?   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT