OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 5, 2010
Paul Casey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Paul, four birdies and three bogeys, how do you feel about your day?   
 PAUL CASEY: I don't know, it was probably a little bit disappointing to be honest. Pretty good scoring conditions out there. It was fairly windy when we turned up first thing this morning in the dark, and then it actually dropped and we actually got a few raindrops, nothing serious. Perfect conditions, good greens and didn't take advantage of it.   
  
  Q. Struggling with the pace of the greens occasionally, leaving some short; is that how you felt?  
 PAUL CASEY: Yes.   
  
  Q. Do you have any idea why?   
 PAUL CASEY: There was a couple of guys in my group mentioned thought it caught my skirt a couple of times, bless them.   
 I struggled with the greens last week, as well. I've been very, very busy. Probably have not had enough time in the last three weeks to put in some solid practise and that's really what I need. But I'm enjoying being on the golf course. If I can roll in a few of those putts that I missed, things are going in the right direction.  
  
  Q. You talked about feeling tired and corporate responsibilities, etc., is that something you will change in the future?  
 PAUL CASEY: No, because I like doing them. You know, especially golf out here, it's growing so fast. It's important for me; it's important for golf. You know, it was a very busy one, but I won't sort of really cut it back much too.   
 I think the main thing is, my fitness is not quite at the level I was expecting to be at and probably a little bit too keen, too soon. Normally I can handle this sort of workload, and you know, with the injuries to the ribs, which I'm really not worried about right now, I had not really been putting in the sort of full workout routines that I have in the past, and that's the real reason.   
  
  Q. When is the last time you had the "caught on your skirt" comment on the golf course?  
 PAUL CASEY: I get it quite often: 'Does your husband play?' (Laughter) After about three today, right in the middle.   
  
  Q. Are you at the stage where you think, I can win this?   
 PAUL CASEY: Yeah, it's wide open. What did Rory do on the last? He was going along really nicely, wasn't he. Two days of golf left. Who knows what's going to happen.   
  
  Q. At this point, you said you're exhausted, but now do you think, two good days work and a chance here?  
 PAUL CASEY: Yeah, it's not a hilly course, apart from climbing up 8, really there are not too many hills around here. Just get a really good sleep and save the energy.   
 To me, it's wide open; it really is. There are a lot of very good players at the top of the leaderboard, but nobody is really running away from anybody right now. I thought they might do. Rory looked like he was going to until he suddenly gave it back there on the last.   
 It's jostling for position, jockeying for position.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT