PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2008
Paul Casey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PAUL CASEY: I wanted a bogey-free round, it didn't happen. 

 Q. You're pleased with your fighting performance, I suppose?
 PAUL CASEY: Yeah, they didn't have the leaderboard in the scorers, so I got no idea where I moved up to. Hopefully I moved up a little bit. Because that was very tough out there. 
 And the scores that Sergio's about 3-under now for the day, that's amazing golf, that really is. 1, 2, and 4 are good opportunities to make birdie because it's blowing downwind, but that's about it. It's really tough out there. 

 Q. You've only had a quick calculation here, you have had three bogeys over the weekend, is that right? Two in the third round or three yesterday in the third round. That's good golf. 
 PAUL CASEY: Yeah, it's very good golf. Very good golf. 
 I don't know why it took a long time to turn it around, maybe -- I don't know, I felt like I really had it going this week and was in the golf tournament until Friday afternoon when I let a couple of bogeys sneak in there and a couple of 3-putts on 16, 17 and that killed my momentum. 
 I felt like I was in the golf tournament and then I was thinking about making the cut after that. So quickly it turns around out there. 
 And then trying to claw my way back into it. I was happy to be first group out on the first tee this afternoon that was nice. We had wonderful greens for nine holes and sort of took advantage of it. Made some putts. Pretty happy.

 Q. What's your schedule now?
 PAUL CASEY: Yeah, I'm FedExCuping it.

 Q. Definitely? No change?
 PAUL CASEY: No.

 Q. What's the inclinations on this round and then going forward Ryder Cup wise over the next three weeks?
 PAUL CASEY: Ryder Cup wise I have no idea. I still have an opportunity to qualify, but that opportunity is now off the World Points List rather than the Euros. So -- and I'm a long way off of that list, so I'm going to have to play -- I basically have to win, simple as that. 
 And all I can do, if I don't win, is play exceptional golf and you know, show the boss that I'm playing some decent stuff.

 Q. Sergio is playing well, hopefully will help your cause. 
 PAUL CASEY: I hope so. Because you got to have Sergio on the Ryder Cup team. You can't leave him out, so. 

 Q. I saw you're in Greensboro, is that correct?
 PAUL CASEY: I'm playing there, yeah. 

 Q. May I ask why?
 PAUL CASEY: I'm going to play FedExCup stuff to save going back to Europe and save playing one over there and flying back and doing too much dressing around, might as well keep playing while I'm playing fairly good golf. I only played 13 events in the U. S. and I need to play my 15, so I might as well play a couple more anyway. 
 I want to win some more FedExCup points so I can play as many of those as I can. So it's numerous reasons, but they have said very nice things about it, so I'm looking forward to going there.

 Q. Why have you all been so successful in the Ryder Cup? 
 PAUL CASEY: I have been asked that many times and I have no idea. 
 (Laughter.) I have no idea. The U. S. Team has some wonderful players and I can't explain the reasons for the past two Ryder Cups. Certainly the results, which have been significantly in our favor. I don't know. But I have a -- we went in the K Club as favorites and I'm sure we're going to go into Valhalla as favorites. Which puts the pressure on us. And I want to be part of that team and I want to feel the pressure. But I can't explain why we have been so good at it. 

 Q. Have you ever played Valhalla?
 PAUL CASEY: I have not. No. Does a Play Station count? 
 (Laughter.)

 Q. Is the excitement of making your first Ryder Cup team, how does that compare to after you've been on it a couple times wanting to get back when you know what it's like?
 PAUL CASEY: For me it's always provided great memories, so. I'm not Major champion and I want to win Major Championships, that's to me the ultimate goal. And right now my fondest memories on the golf course have been playing in Ryder Cups. 
 It could be standing on the first tee, standing on the first tee here back in 2004, playing my first match with David Howell, on Saturday morning and then playing Tiger in the singles. You're scared, you're the -- you're extremely nervous. You're extremely nervous. Wondering whether you're going to make contact with the golf ball. 
 But it's memories like that that you just, it's tough to replicate that. We're all competitors and that's why you play the game, to experience the nerves and the pressure. 

 Q. And atmosphere too?
 PAUL CASEY: Oh, yeah. Yeah. Nothing else like it. So it's very addictive. And I don't want to miss it. 

 Q. What's the best chance of doing it? Do you still think you can qualify through the points system or through the world system? What two events -- or are you pretty much relying on a wild card now?
 PAUL CASEY: Can I qualify through points? Yes. So, yes, I can still qualify.

 Q. That's the best way to do it, here rather than Europe, that's the judgment you made?
 PAUL CASEY: I'm a member of the PGA TOUR and I haven't played good enough golf right now to be in the Euro list, Money List. Even though I wanted to be. And I have an obligation to play stuff over here. I got to play my 15 over here, so I'm, you know, I'm torn, but I have an obligation to play golf over here and I'm going to fulfill that. 
 So I hope I play great golf and I can still technically qualify. No problem. I got three events. It's not over until it's over. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT