MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2008
Paul Casey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Well played. What is it about difficult golf courses and you?  
 PAUL CASEY: Yeah, I don't know. Difficult golf courses, I seem to like them. I enjoy the challenge. Augusta National provides one of the greatest challenges in the game of golf.   
 Today was an example that you can make birdies out there, but bogeys are right around the corner if you're not careful. And I seemed to make both frequently.   
 And roll with the punches. Try to bounce back whenever something, a bad bounce happened or I dropped a shot. I was very, very happy with 69 today. It puts me in a nice position. Not too far behind Trevor. I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Tomorrow is a day that can change your life forever, how do you manage that tonight, tomorrow, and the pressure of knowing that?  
 PAUL CASEY: I hadn't thought about it until you mentioned it.   
 (Laughter.)   
 So thanks.   
 (Laughter.)  
 I'm not going to worry about it. I played, it looks like I may be in the penultimate group tomorrow I'm not sure. I've played in the penultimate group before back in 2004, played with Bernhard Langer. And that was when Mickelson and Ernie went down the stretch and made a lot of birdies. And I'll draw from that. I know what it's like.   
 But tomorrow's really a day where I've got to worry about my own game and if the wind picks up as it's meant to, it will be a day of trying to manage your emotions and your game. And I feel happy with all of that.   
 I put in a lot of work and I realize there's more to life than golf, so tomorrow's a big day and it's very important and I'm not going to ignore that fact, but I'm going to sleep very soundly tonight.  
  
  Q. A pair of 69s, to do it two days in a row, those kind of rounds together, do you feel pretty solid now?  
 PAUL CASEY: Two 69s in a row is wonderful golf and this is -- I feel great. I love being here. It's as simple as that. It's a golf course which as soon as I come through the gates I enjoy the challenge, I enjoy the beauty, the crowds. This is a golf course that I would love to continue to play the rest of my life.   
 So I feel very lucky every day I tee it up and tomorrow's going to be more of the same. I'm going to test myself against great players, best in the world, and one of the best golf courses in the world and we'll see what happens.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT