THE DEUTSCHE BANK PLAYERS' CHAMPIONSHIP OF EUROPE
July 26, 2007
Paul Casey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Five birdies and one bogey - what pleased you most about the round today? 
 PAUL CASEY:  Five birdies. Struck the ball very nicely and gave myself lots of chances. It is difficult to make putts with all the rain this course has had and the poa annua greens are a little bumpy but they will get better as the week goes on and I have just got to do more of the same, keep the ball in play, stick it near the pin and it is not a bad start. 

 Q.  You have been out of action for a few weeks - what happened? 
 PAUL CASEY:  I was due to play the K Club. I wanted to be there after the success of The Ryder Cup last year and the two events either side. I actually tore a muscle in the middle of the back. It was two weeks lying around not doing much. Then the week before the Open Peter Kostis my coach was in town and I worked with him. Then luckily enough I was okay to get around Carnoustie I pretty good shape. The health is not an issue now. I am fighting fit and looking forward to getting struck in for the rest of the year. 

 Q.  Harrington says his win in The Open will open the floodgates - do you agree? 
 PAUL CASEY:  I hope so. Padraig is one of those guys I have watched very closely in his career since I have been on tour, watched the things he does very well which is a lot of things. But I have never had a European Major winner to watch closely since I have been out on Tour. I came out in 2001 and it is nice to watch Padraig and Angel and a lot of other guys who are having success that I see regularly. Obviously I see guys in the States as well but I know these guys and know how my game measures up to these guys. I clearly have to keep working very, very hard. I would very much like my career to emulate Padraig's. I narrowly missed out on an Order of Merit last year and Padraig also missed out on one to Goosen a few years ago. So if I can snag an Order of Merit in the next few years and then go on to win a Major like he has, I would be very happy. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT