ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 20, 2007
Paul Casey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 PAUL CASEY:  That was a good round. The goal was to get into double digits and I achieved that. It was a shame I didn't get another one at the last but a combination of a poor stroke and a grainy green meant I missed it comfortably. I'm in there with a shout now, and depending on what the other lads do, I shouldn't be too far back. 

 Q.  Inside you were fuming? 
 PAUL CASEY:  Yes, not happy with that! Having said that, the greens are very grainy and I don't practice on them. It's a different technique and I have a habit of de-lofting the putter and on these surface and that can result in the ball squirting off the putter face. I've been working on it all week and nothing's going to change magically overnight. I've been getting better as the week has gone on. I've worked hard the two weeks leading into this week and tomorrow will be fun. I am back in the mix and a good start to the new year. 
 We have a lot of great players here. Abu Dhabi is a fabulous city and it's a lot of fun to be here. If I could knock one off this early it would be a great start to 2007 and I could build from there. 

 Q.  Changed putters? 
 PAUL CASEY:  No. Same one from U.S. Open all the way through. It's thick grain and the one on the last, I was unsure of the direction of the grain and the uncertainty of the stroke, I didn't touch the hole. 

 Q.  Double digits is good? 
 PAUL CASEY:  Yes, Padraig got to 12 but hasn't pushed on. We'll see. I accomplished my goal today. I will need something like another 67 or 66 to have a sniff of the title but it's a good start. I don't know is Padraig is leading. I will chase him all the way. He works so hard he deserves all the success he gets and I pay attention to what he does and make sure I try to work as hard. It's early in the season and I am happy to be back in contention. 
 I can't force it tomorrow. I played a very solid round today and strike it the same way and produce another round like that I will be happy. If I don't - well, it doesn't matter. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT