VOLVO MASTERS
October 28, 2006
Paul Casey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  First thing's first, how are you feeling?
PAUL CASEY:  Pretty good now.  Back to feeling my usual self.  The last two days weren't very good but no excuses now.  Unfortunately those first two days killed my chances of being up there in contention.  Level par around this course on a windy day, no complaints, looking forward to playing tomorrow.
Q.  How has the health obviously affected your play?
PAUL CASEY:  It was the worst I ever felt on the golf course.  I had a shot on the 11th tee to stop the vomiting and a lot of things going on and it was very tough.  I was trying to stay out of Padraig's way, so try not get in his way and go about my own, so that illustrates how sick I was, and if it wasn't for the Order of Merit, I may not have played on Thursday at all.
Q.  What's been mind set since shooting 5 over par the first round?
PAUL CASEY:  I think just the health, get back to feeling normal, simple as that.  You know, the tournament unfortunately is lost, nothing I can do about that.  Barring a spectacular round of golf tomorrow, I can't get near any of those guys.  I'm going to be a spectator on Sunday, I'm going to sit back and see what those guys do.
Q.  You can make it more difficult by making a move?
PAUL CASEY:  I can but with all three of them being close to the top anyway, I can maybe steal away a position from them, you know, make them finish second rather than third.  I know I can do that for Padraig, probably the same for David as well.  That's the plan of action.  That's the goal.

I haven't really crunched numbers so I don't know what I've got to do.  If I can go out there, play well, shoot under par, move up the leaderboard, that's good for my own pride and whatever happens after that is out of my control.

I thought I played pretty good.  It was quite windy out there.  But I was happy with that round of golf.  I gave myself lots of chances.  I think more of the thing tomorrow    make some putts, I'll be happy and whatever and whatever happens, happens.
Q.  How disappointing would it be not to win the Order of Merit?
PAUL CASEY:  It would be a disappointment but I don't think it would be a crushing disappointment.  Padraig lost by 30,000 or something like that when he was up against Goose and had a chance to pass him.  Padraig's been out here a lot longer than I have and David has been up there pretty much all year until I stole it away in The Match Play.  Because I haven't been on top very long, and we've had the Ryder Cup and stuff like that, the focus has sort of been off me, shall I say, a little bit.  I haven't had to worry about it, won't stress about it too much.  It would certainly be a disappointment, but I also feel I'll have plenty more chances to rectify it.
Q.  The frustration of not being able to
PAUL CASEY:  That's the biggest disappointment.  Like I said, it's a reflection of what happens all year.  I feel very fortunate to be in the lead and I still think that he's played the best golf of anybody this year in the event he's played in.  I've had a very, very good year anyway.  Three wins and then Ryder Cup was phenomenal.  I've got plenty out of this year.  I'd certainly want an Order of Merit on the C.V. before I hang up my clubs.  If it doesn't happen this year, it's certainly one of the goals for next year.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT