VOLVO MASTERS
October 27, 2006
Paul Casey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Medical bulletin No. 2?
PAUL CASEY:  It's better than it was yesterday.
Q.  Are you better?
PAUL CASEY:  I've just heard more people have come down with something as well, David Lynn.
Q.  And two more caddies.
PAUL CASEY:  So over the worst of it.
Q.  You were drinking a lot of water to keep rehydrating, were you?
PAUL CASEY:  Yeah.  I managed to eat half a sandwich which is pretty good, first thing I've eaten in two I days.  So that was pretty good.  Over the worst of it.  I just feel weak and lethargic, just sort of like I've been beaten up.  But it will get better.  I'll be all right.  Tomorrow I'll be better and Sunday I'll be fine.
Q.  How do you see the position your in at 6 over and with everything that's going on?
PAUL CASEY:  Well, there's not a lot I can do.  I'll probably crunch some numbers and I think if I finish a certain position, I can take maybe a place away from Padraig, force him to finish second I think.

But there's nothing I can do.  I'm not going to get    try not to worry about it.  Just try and play as good as I can over the weekend.  As I said yesterday, it's a reflection of a year's golf, and if it comes down to, you know, one round on Sunday, there's very little you can do.  I'm sure there's plenty of places throughout the year where I could have made a bit more money or something like that.
Q.  You've got no worries about not completing the week?
PAUL CASEY:  Oh, no, I'll finish the week, yeah.
Q.  What did you do last night?
PAUL CASEY:  I was sick last night.  Yeah, I didn't think I would be able to play today actually the way I was feeling last night.  So happy I'm out here this morning.
Q.  Are you now beginning to feel like you can eat something properly?
PAUL CASEY:  Getting will there.  Half a cheese Sandwich was quite good today.  Might stay with the plain stuff.
Q.  At what point last night was it at its worst, after you left the course when we saw you?
PAUL CASEY:  I think so, an hour or two.  I think the thing yesterday, I was holding it all in trying to get through the day.
Q.  Literally.
PAUL CASEY:  Yes.  (Laughter.)
Q.  Did you go and see the doctor again?
PAUL CASEY:  No, too late for that.
Q.  Did you feel worse after the opening hole today?
PAUL CASEY:  It wasn't good but I got better    that lie on the first was a shock, a stinker.  Did almost stand on it.  It could have been ugly.  I know I had a slash at it but that's Valderrama for you, as well.  You're going to get a couple of those.
Q.  Is 72 a reasonable effort based on how you were feeling and everything else?

PAUL CASEY:  Yeah, I certainly would have taken it before the start of the day.  I think halfway around, I may have not taken that.  I would have liked something, level par or better.  But I'm still pretty happy with it.  It's getting better.  See what we can do.
Q.  7 and 11?
PAUL CASEY:  I lost a ball right.  At that point I started to feel quite good and for some reason I decided to hit one quite hard and it was the worst thing I could have done.  (Laughing) Lost it right, marshals never saw it.

I birdied 4, good drive, a 7 iron short of the green about 60 yards short.  I pitched up to about five feet and made it.

No. 6, I cut 8 iron, left about 15 feet short and made that up the hill.

10, 3 wood, big 3 wood.  I had 90 yard to the flag, gap wedge to about 15 feet.

14, 3 iron, pitching wedge, about three feet.

17, driver, almost on the 11th tee, chipped in back into the middle of the fairway.  Hit a pitching wedge to about ten feet and made it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT