VOLVO MASTERS
October 26, 2006
Paul Casey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Was it something you ate last night?
PAUL CASEY:  Possibly.  But I was up a few times last night.  And then, actually, it wasn't too bad starting out, but it wasn't feeling good.  Craig brought necessities along just in case.  And it just    it got worse.  It got worse as the round went on.  The guy gave me a shot on the 11th tee.
Q.  Do you know what it was?
PAUL CASEY:  A shot for the stomach to stop the nauseous feeling and a pill to solidify the rest, shall we say.
Q.  When did you call for the shot?
PAUL CASEY:  Ten tee.  Just stomach was really cramped up on the 10th tee.  Whole body feels like a flu, actually, because the whole body is aching, trying to take as much pressure off the back as could I and the back was really, really tight at the end.
Q.  Had it been any other circumstance, would you have probably withdrawn?
PAUL CASEY:  Probably.
Q.  What did you do last night?
PAUL CASEY:  Just ham and melon and pasta.  It was actually very good.
Q.  Hopefully it's a 24 hour thing.
PAUL CASEY:  Yeah.  Two caddies had it this morning as well, Canonica's and Jiménez as well.
Q.  Is this easily the worst you've felt on a golf course?
PAUL CASEY:  Yes.  I was trying not to get in Padraig's way, as well.  Trying to stay out of his way and let him play.  I wasn't very quick walking from tee to green.  I wasn't even thinking about the score.  I was just trying to get in without doing too much damage.
Q.  Were you close to being sick on the golf course?
PAUL CASEY:  A couple of times.
Q.  When you were bending over, for example?
PAUL CASEY:  Yeah, it eased the discomfort on my stomach and it took the pressure off the back, as well.
Q.  Did you feel like pulling out at any time?  Is it so important that that didn't even cross your mind at all?
PAUL CASEY:  I'm not a fan of pulling out of things, so I think I should try and keep going as long as I can until the doctor says otherwise.  Wasn't enjoyable.
Q.  Sometimes it's your body that says otherwise, not the Doctor, isn't it?
PAUL CASEY:  Yeah, just try and get through it.  Hopefully I'll have a good night's sleep and I'll feel better tomorrow.  I can't feel any worse.
Q.  You haven't eaten since
PAUL CASEY:  No, I had a bread roll this morning, and that was all I could stomach.
Q.  You played brilliantly all year, and do you feel sorry for yourself
PAUL CASEY:  The Order of Merit is a reflection of the year's golf and I'm not going to get caught up in letting this ruin my entire year.  So whatever happens, happens.  And I think the same with the other guys.  You know, it's a year's golf.  It's always going to come down to the last event.  But I think it's fair that maybe the pressure is put on a guy trying to shoot a good score in the final round or something like that.  There are probably many opportunities this year where I could have been a shot or two better.
Q.  It's ironic that everyone was discussing whether David Howell would be fit to play, and actually the only question mark today was you.
PAUL CASEY:  Actually when four of us were in the physio truck before we went out, that's not a good sign, is it?  Robert was working out, Padraig was probably just getting a loosener, and David was treatment on his shoulder.  I was getting a general loosener on the back, which may have been the sort of start of the aches and the discomfort for the rest of the day.

Not going to give up.  Happy with the way I tried out there.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT