ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 8, 2006
Paul Casey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Was it a case of one tournament too many in this run?
PAUL CASEY:  Of course it's a hard run. The HSBC was a tough week but the Ryder Cup is without a doubt the toughest week I've ever experienced in golf, physically and mentally. That was very much apparent at the Amex and this week was tough as well with the weather.

I know I played a cracking round of the golf on Thursday but the game wasn't quite there for the rest of the week. I think I used them all up at The K Club. I had lots of chances today and early on there were a few more. I felt I played all right from tee to green.

I would like to have cracked the top five today and I think I played well enough to do that, but I am just outside so there you go.
Q.  You said earlier that you hope to re-charge your batteries over the next two weeks?
PAUL CASEY:  I've got Valderrama and three more events before Christmas. They are all important. I will have a break between Tiger's event and probably Abu Dhabi. Not a huge break. I probably won't play an early US event.
Q.  The Order of Merit - very important today not to fade away?
PAUL CASEY:  I agree with that. From what was a tough Friday and Saturday to post a top six score is a good result. The first round was very good. I am happy with that. I felt I ground it out, and to finish top ten by staying relaxed and focused is good.

I will practise. I will put the clubs away for a couple of days. Nice to wake up for a couple of days not to play golf. I am going to Florida to join Jocelyn and her parents.
Q.  Harrington has moved closer at the top.
PAUL CASEY:  It's a huge event and I know I've won three times this year but two of them have been slightly smaller events. I think it's right they don't count all the money for winning the Match Play, but if Padraig goes on to win this it's going to be close. I actually feel slightly sorry for Howler because of his injuries. I feel guilty to be on top. I feel he should be ahead of me.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT