NISSAN IRISH OPEN
May 22, 2006
Paul Casey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAUL CASEY:  Well, after the break yesterday, it was a long way back.  And to start off with missing my par putt back on 8 and dropped one on 9, I thought the chance really was gone, so at least I had a chance there at the end.

I'm getting closer, that's all you can say.  (Laughing.)

Yeah, you know, I'm happy for Thomas.  He played a wonderful round of golf.  Two birdies to finish it off with was spectacular, so congratulations to him.
Q.  You are getting closer and you deserve enormous praise for bouncing back after last week.
PAUL CASEY:  Thank you.  I just played very solid golf.  This week I think was just about grinding it out.

The guy with the best attitude I think certainly gave himself a chance.  No surprise to see guys like Thomas, Padraig, Darren, you know, at the top of the leaderboard on the weekend because those are the guys that just never give up.
Q.  When you step away from here, the disappointment, but with all of those elements you have to say, "I came very close?"
PAUL CASEY:  I was talking to my caddie on the last few holes and conditions will never be the same again.  That was the worst five days I've ever played in, in terms of conditions, and it was just a battle from start to finish.  It's been a long week I think for a lot of guys; really looking forward to Wentworth next week.  You know, some tired and weary bodies but we carry on.
Q.  You'll look forward to that in this kind of form.
PAUL CASEY:  Yeah, you know, I haven't played strong at Wentworth in the past but there are changes now which may favor me slightly with the added length.  I get to sleep in my own bed.    I grew up right around the corner.  It is home for me.  Really looking forward to it.
Q.  Remarkable for Thomas after his first round and what he's been going through to finish it off like that?
PAUL CASEY:  Yeah, I was playing with Thomas not long ago when he, you know, left the golf course at The K Club.  I think he tried very, very hard this week and he's a great golfer, I mean, I've learned a lot from Thomas.  He was involved with the Ryder Cup when I was a team member, he's always had fantastic words of wisdom and he deserves it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT