THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 27, 2004
Paul Casey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
How did the course change in terms of the greens as the day went on?
PAUL CASEY:  For me a lot because I had that afternoon tee time where we got the rain that came through.  The front nine wasn't really that different playing today, but the back nine was drastically different.  The rain took the fieriness out of the golf course.  And today it was back.  Who knows what tomorrow is going to be like.  It's starting to play very fast and very tough.  If you miss the greens in the wrong place, like both myself and John were doing, it's difficult.
Q.  It's almost the right place at the right time, isn't it, because of the weather and how those greens dry out, almost the luck of the draw?
PAUL CASEY:  Well, tomorrow, you know, it doesn't really matter on the weekends.  When you get the first two days, you can get the luck of the draw.  But on the weekends it doesn't really come into it.  I'm not going to worry about that.
Q.  This is your first visit here and your scores keep getting better.  Are you feeling more comfortable around this track?
PAUL CASEY:  I think so.  I was very comfortable playing with J.D. today.  Yeah, I felt like I've hit the ball very nicely all week.  I had 33 putts the first day, after hitting 15 greens, a bunch of putts again yesterday.  Today we just holed a couple of putts.  Obviously a chip-in there as well.  And that's what you've got to do.  If you don't hole putts around this golf course, it wears you down.

But at the same time it's fair.  It's a scorable golf course, which guys are showing.  This is as good a golf course -- good a combination of tough golf course but yet scorable that I've ever seen.
Q.  Down the road are you looking ahead at Ryder Cup points for the year?
PAUL CASEY:  Well, it does count -- world ranking points count toward the qualification.  But that's the main goal for the year.  I hope to play in a lot of PLAYERS Championships.  Hopefully I can play more tournaments over here.  My home is in Europe, and I enjoy playing in the European Tour.  The European guys have to play over in the Majors and in THE PLAYERS Championship.  You have to do that to compete at the highest level.
Q.  What was special about playing with Daly today?
PAUL CASEY:  That's just the loudest group I've ever played in, and not being the last group, either.  The support he gets out there is just unbelievable.  It's a lot of fun, very little -- probably none of it was for me.  He's just a great guy to play with.  I think he's encouraging, very relaxed, and we played at a good pace.  If we have nobody in front of us, I think we would have gone around in two and a half hours.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT