AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 8, 2019
Paul Casey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  7-under for today.  Can you sum up your round?  
PAUL CASEY: It was really good.  Yeah, I played a great round of golf and I'm so happy to get done.  We were on the last hole and I heard that horn go.  And then there was a second one and then a third one which means, and I had to think for a minute, because you get one long blast, you're done.  But the three means it's, I guess it's bad conditions, but you can finish the hole and I'm like we can finish the hole?  I've never been so happy.  I went from upset to happy in an instant.  So it was all good.  So yeah it was really good.  Made a move up the leaderboard, Don Colleran, my partner from FedEx, we had a great time, but, yeah, so happy to finish.   
 Q.  Talk a little bit about the hot stretch between 13 and 18.  
PAUL CASEY: Yeah, I didn't have a four on my first nine, which was the back nine here at Monterey Peninsula Country Club and it's not often that happens.  Just got on a hot streak, hit a lot of good quality shots and made some putts.  And but I knew the weather was coming so in a way I was pushing.  And I didn't take advantage of 10 and 12 to start the day, the relatively easy par-5s.  So I was trying to, I was like, oh, I lost some ground, so I was trying to pick some up and I did.   
 Q.  What was working for you, specifically?  
PAUL CASEY: Combination of stuff.  I hit a couple of wild tee shots but made some putts through that really good stretch and that's the key.  Been a lot of traffic on the greens.  The balls can kind of bounce around a little bit, but made some putts.  You just got to roll with it.  If you stay positive attitude, I mean the greens are good.  It's just that you get a lot of traffic and it can be a little tricky.  But making the putts is obviously the key.   
 Q.  Last question.  Your thoughts on playing Spyglass tomorrow?  
PAUL CASEY: Looking forward to it.  But I don't like the walk.  I really like it, but I don't like the walk, especially uphill.  It's a wonderful golf course.  It's so special to play this event.  The golf courses are all amazing.  I love every single one of them.  Pebble's obviously very special.  Spyglass is great.  Yeah, but I'm looking forward to it, it's going to be a slog but fingers crossed it's not too bad.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT