THE RYDER CUP
September 30, 2018
Paul Casey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Paul, you were emotional the last time we spoke with you.  How are you, now?  
PAUL CASEY: Much better, thank you.  Yeah, yesterday I was, but remember, my last full point was about 12 years ago, and I just reminded Jim the last full point I had was against Jim Furyk, and my last singles point, as well.   
It was really cool to walk on the 18th green a second ago.  The halve was still great momentum for us.  You have to give respect to Brooks.  We've all seen what he's done this year, winning two majors.  He's my Player of the Year, global Player of the Year.  It was a great, classic match.   
 Q.  Congratulations, what a hard-fought match.  
PAUL CASEY: It was absolutely a brilliant match.  Maybe the best match-play match I've been part of.  Brooks is Player of the Year around the world, just unbelievable.  The drive he hit down 18 shows what he's made of, so cool and calm.   
We threw a lot at each other.  It was a really good one.  It was nice to play some really good golf against him.  I know I had a putt on the last to clinch a full point and to be honest, grabbing a halve after I was down, especially only a couple of holes to go, I feel good about that, get a bit of momentum for the tee.   
 Q.  Both of you shot 4-under par today, and now it's over.  What are your feelings?  
PAUL CASEY: Feelings for the match?  My feelings for this?  No idea.  Can't stand watching.  It's the worst thing in the world.  I mean, I love all my teammates and I just want them to make birdies and win their matches, and not being able to do anything about it is tough.   
I'm going to be out there running around trying to give motivation, not that they need it, but support if they need it.  I've had an absolute blast this week.  To be back on The Ryder Cup, first full point since 12 years, it would have been K Club, which I just reminded Jim Furyk.  That was the last singles win I had against him.  Hopefully that's a good omen, I don't know.  It's been a good week so far.  Obviously I hope we can close it out.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT