TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2018
Paul Casey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  15 greens today, that's pretty solid ball striking with the irons especially?  
PAUL CASEY: Wow, I felt like I hit it sideways on some holes.  It was good.  I love this golf course.  I think it's great.  It's a joy to play any course after you've just played a U.S. Open.  You feel like everything's going to -- I don't want to say easier, but it is.  It feels easier.  I'm happy with that.  Some good scores today.  I'm happy I'm sort of moving up the leaderboard a little bit.   
 Q.  Other than the obvious coming off what you came off last week, what is it about the golf course that you like?  Does it just fit your eye?  Did you like the mix of holes, the routing, is it something specific?  
PAUL CASEY: Yes, exactly what you said.  I think what makes this -- there are a lot of things that make this a great tournament.  But if you look at the facts, it was one of the greatest playoffs on the PGA TOUR.  The fact that it was Bubba Watson playing against Corey Pavin, if I'm correct, that means it's a brilliant golf course because it's open, and it is.  It's open for anybody to play well around here.  It suits all types of games.  It's fun.   
We've got a great stretch to finish with, the excitement is usually around 15, 16, 17 where there's a lot of action.  Reachable par-5, drivable par-4s, it's got all the ingredients that you want.  And they don't set it up too silly.  They let you make birdies, which is a lot of fun.   
 Q.  After a 65, it's open for you the rest of the way as well.  So good luck and keep it going.  
PAUL CASEY: Thank you very much.   
 Q.  Good start today, 5-under 65.  Just a few comments coming here after last week.  
PAUL CASEY: I've almost made as many birdies in one day as I made in an entire week, Dougie.  So, yeah, it's fun.  It's always been one of my favorite events on TOUR.  A great golf course.  A golf course which is receptive to all styles of play based on look at the winners and whether a Furyk or the great playoff between Bubba Watson and Corey Pavin sums it up.  All players have a chance around here.  Voted one of the best tournaments, maybe the best tournament on TOUR by the players.  So, yeah, perfect way to follow up a grueling week last week.   
 Q.  Does it get you a little more excited to have the Spieths and the Rorys and the Justins all up there on the leaderboard with you?  
PAUL CASEY: Yeah, I didn't see too much of it, but I don't exactly -- Rory shot 6, Zach 7?  Yeah, it does.  I mean, what a stellar field you've got all four reigning major champions are here.  Mega applause to Brooks as well for coming here after winning last week, because it's very easy to be caught up with other stuff going on.  So that speaks volumes for what Travelers have done and how they treat everybody and the work that Andy Bessette and his team put in to fly around the country and speak highly of this event.  And do things which matter to continue to improve the event, not just for players, but for spectators, fans, and hopefully look after you guys as well.   
 Q.  Pretty good shape at 65.  You're right there after day 1?  
PAUL CASEY: Yeah, it was really good.  My ball striking wasn't quite what I wanted.  I missed a couple fairways on the second nine that I played, but the putting was good, the chip-in.  It was just, you know, as I said, it's just nice to play.  I feel like I've got a good draw.  I like the late- early, so capitalize on today's round and get out there early tomorrow morning and get good greens.   
Not that you ever really get bad greens around a golf course like this, but if they're going to be a little chopped up, it's going to be a Friday afternoon.  So the late-early can be an advantage, and try to push up that leaderboard, take the lead and give the guys something to chase.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT