THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 25, 2017
Paul Casey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Knock me over with a feather:  FedExCup, you're in contention again.
PAUL CASEY: That's what it's all about, isn't it.  Didn't you get the memo?  You know, I've had a solid season so far but no question now is the time to really up it.  Guys, this has grown in stature.  Now we're over a decade in.  It means a big deal.  Guys are putting this down on the list of things they want to accomplish on the golf course.
And my goal this time of year to try and get hot.  I did it last year with a couple of second-place finishes.  It gave me an opportunity to win the FedExCup when we got to East Lake, and I want to do the same.  In a better starting position probably than I was this time last year.  Guys are playing good.  I've got to continue to play my good form.
Q. This golf course doesn't look like it's one you can tear apart, and something in the mid-60s is a phenomenal round of golf.  Does that help your cause if you're going to try and contend?
PAUL CASEY: I rolled in here late.  I only played the Pro-Am, so I'm only three rounds of golf into this golf course.  I initially thought it was just a bomber's paradise, but the more I'm playing it, the more I'm realizing the greens are as severe as they are and as fast as they are.  I'm a very good touch putter.  You know, I know I had a 3-putt today, but typically, one of the reasons I play well at Augusta is I've got great speed control, and this is a place where you need some great speed control.
So you're starting to see some names on there that I didn't think you would see in the beginning of the week.  Not all about the bombers.  You've got to hit the fairways; that rough is so penal.
I like it.  I really do.  I think it suits my game.  And we obviously saw Dustin Johnson's risen to the top of the leaderboard.  But I think a lot of guys have an opportunity to play well over the weekend and I think it's a pretty open field right now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT