PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2017
Paul Casey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You say your record around here is not great.  We would have thought this is the sort of course that would suited, long and straight?  
PAUL CASEY: I don't know what it is.  You'd have to look it up.  I've played three or four Wells Fargo Championships, probably missed about three cuts.  But I like the golf course.  So I can't explain why the record's been so poor.   
But then it's different now.  We've got, what, three or four holes have been changed.  We've got different grass on the greens.  Maybe that will -- finally, maybe I will figure this place out.   
 Q.  Changes don't seem to have been that popular.  What do you make of them?  
PAUL CASEY: No.   
 Q.  You can speak freely.  
PAUL CASEY: They are okay, the changes.   
 Q.  Fourth green, a bit funky, apparently.  
PAUL CASEY: Not a fan.   
 Q.  Too severe with the club you're going into?  
PAUL CASEY: Yes.  Yeah.   
 Q.  Given that, how pleased are you to open with a 2-under?  
PAUL CASEY: I'm very happy to have parred that hole, I know that.   
Yeah, it was not my best stuff today.  I struggled with the ball-striking.  The first tee shot of the day was an example of that, hooking it into the trees.  Not something I've really struggled with much lately.  Ball-striking's been really, really good.   
It was a struggle.  I had a very good attitude.  I tried my hardest, Johnny and I, to manage the strategy, keep the ball below the hole, because I didn't quite have the control, and that's why you see the 2-under.  It was a very good score, considering.   
Yeah, need to brush up on things, because it needs to be better than that if I want to continue to compete this week.   
 Q.  Does it feel a bit more like a U.S. Open-style venue?  
PAUL CASEY: Yeah, I guess I haven't thought about it.  Most TOUR events leading up to The Open and after the U.S. Open were much tougher than the U.S. Open score, if you just use score as an example.   
It is strange playing a place you've played many a time as a regular TOUR event as a major championship.  That's a bit odd.  Hadn't really thought about it at all.   
 Q.  Does that mean with the confidence you're playing with at the moment --  
PAUL CASEY: I think it highlights confidence, sort of -- I don't know how you want to describe it.  Sort of good golf craft.  Just sort of good management.  Yeah, understanding of my own game and understanding of what I need to do on golf courses.  Even golf courses I may be don't play particularly well.   
Yeah, I'm optimistic I can get a whole lot out of this week.  But yeah, it needs to get much better if we're going to do that (laughing).  I'm downplaying my chances, is what I'm saying right now.  I don't want you to get too optimistic; I'm not (laughs).   
 Q.  You've been remarkably consistent with your finishes this year.  What do you think it is about your game that's helped you maintain that form?  
PAUL CASEY: I've got a really good understanding of what I need to do to play my best golf:  Work away from the golf course, how to practice, how to train.  I've got a good understanding and a great relationship with Johnny.  I think we attack golf courses in the right way.   
We're always questioning it, whether we should be more aggressive.  An example of that, when Rory is hitting 13 drivers last week in each round, you know, we're always going, is this the right play, as I'm hitting 3-iron off the tee half the first time.   
I would like to turn -- the consistently is obviously great.  I would like to turn it into wins.  Yeah, we're trying to figure that one out.  Consistent is great, I love it, but winning is what I'm trying to do right now.   
 Q.  Charley Hoffman's comment last week, struck a chord with you.  
PAUL CASEY: Yeah, I chuckled.  I saw on social -- it was on like Instagram or something, it was a replay, subtitled.  It was clean.   
 Q.  That sentiment?  
PAUL CASEY: Yeah, good for him.  Good for -- he's right.  It's the right attitude.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT