U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 16, 2017
Paul Casey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great job out there today.  How does it feel?  
PAUL CASEY: It feels good, yeah.  Not every day you enjoy a round of golf with an 8 on the card, but I'm a pretty happy man.  Yeah, it was a bit of a roller coaster.  If you can get through, I guess it's where you get through a U.S. Open or any major without some kind of hiccup.   
It was a good display, all my own fault, but a good display of what can happen if you get out of position on this golf course, which is what I did on 14.  So, you know, even just trying to take my medicine is very, very difficult.  It's a good 8 in the end.   
 Q.  But to have that kind of hiccup and that bad spell you had, to come back with a string of birdies, that's got to feel good?  
PAUL CASEY: It was good.  Because I felt like the game plan has been very, very solid.  It was yesterday.  I had been swinging it well, and it felt really, really good to have a couple holes later be picking the ball out of the hole for a birdie.  Then clawed all the way back and actually picked up one more to the good by the time we were finished.   
It felt great.  Clearly the game plan is pretty good.  Excited, I'm excited about it.  I don't know what to tell you, but it was --   
 Q.  What were the differences between yesterday and today as far as course set-up, condition?  
PAUL CASEY: The course was just drier.  A tiny fraction more wind today.  The tees, some of the tees were farther back.  You know, it was wonderful to see that there was no, I felt no knee-jerk reaction to yesterday's scores.  Incredibly fair.   
In fact, went through it with Justin Rose this morning, and looking at some of the pins, we thought they were great.  Quite receptive.  But for me, it felt like it played tougher today.  It doesn't need to be a change, too much of a change for this golf course to play pretty difficult.  If the sun stays like it is and the wind keeps baking this golf course out, it's pretty treacherous on the weekend, which is just what I would like, and I think what the rest of the players want to see.   
 Q.  When you get into a situation like that, how do you keep the wheels from coming off?  
PAUL CASEY: 17 years, 16 years of doing it.  Yeah.   
 Q.  Assuming you're very near the top of the leaderboard going into the weekend, how does that affect the mindset, the approach, if at all?  Talk about that one.  
PAUL CASEY: It doesn't.  I want to be near the top.  Will be going in there tomorrow, will be going in Sunday near the top.  It doesn't affect the game plan one bit, and it doesn't really affect the mindset.  There will probably be more nerves, more excitement, there is a lot of golf to be played here.  I've shown what can happen with one bad swing.  So you've got to be very, very patient and stay in the moment.  I know it's cliché, but the last thing you need to be doing is thinking ahead, especially on this golf course.   
 Q.  Could you have rebounded the way you did on 14 ten years ago, whatever the number you want to pick?  
PAUL CASEY: In my good seasons, yes, but there have been times when I struggled, so probably not (laughing).  Yes, there are times I would have rebounded like that, but maybe not as calmly.  I think -- I was upset with the score I had made, but it had, in no way, any effect on my attitude or how I was going to then approach the rest of the round or the next shot.  Part of that is just age, and part I'll give credit to Johnny McLaren, credit to my wife and my little boy.   
 Q.  Did the 8 affect the subsequent holes?  
PAUL CASEY: No, having the 8 didn't affect the strategies or anything like that.   
 Q.  When is the last time you had an 8 or five in a row?  
PAUL CASEY: Five what in a row?   
 Q.  Birdies in a row?  
PAUL CASEY: Did I have five birdies in a row?   
 Q.  Yeah, I'm quite sure it's a U.S. Open record.  
PAUL CASEY: I don't know.  You can look it up.  Last time I made an 8.   
 Q.  Did Johnny say something after the 8?  
PAUL CASEY: No, I asked him if he was all right because he was incredibly quiet.  And he was like, Oh, fine, I'm good.   
He's like, Are you all right?   
I said, Yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT