TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 2, 2017
Joost Luiten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  That putt on 16, fantastic putt from off the green?  
JOOST LUITEN: Yeah, that's a bonus.  Basically hit the wrong club into the green, and to walk away with a birdie, that's maybe two shots' difference.  That's what you need sometimes, to hole shots like that and get away with it.  That keeps the round going.   
 Q.  Seven birdies and no dropped shots today.  What was the most pleasing thing about the round?  
JOOST LUITEN: I think I putted really well all day.  I holed some really nice, nice putts.  I didn't really hit them close enough.  I want to hit them closer the next couple days, but the putter was really hot, so that was nice to see.   
 Q.  Tuesday and Wednesday you spent some time on the undulated putting green.  Is that something you identified as being important this week?  
JOOST LUITEN: Yeah, there's not a lot of rough, so it's a lot on the greens this week.  I was struggling a little bit, so I tried to putt in some work, and it's good to see that it pays out.   
 Q.  Obviously second in Spain, so nice to see the form carrying on into the next tournaments, as well?  
JOOST LUITEN: That's what you want, but form is a funny thing.  Luckily today it was still there.  It's just when you're in good shape like that, you want to keep going.  You just want to play golf.   
 Q.  An opening 64, really solid round but the key seemed to be a very long putt from off the green on 16.  Can you walk us through what happened there?  
JOOST LUITEN: I basically took the wrong club into the green, over the green and that's the place you don't want to go.  But I was there and I felt like the putter was the best option, the safest option, because I didn't have a lot of green to work with.  It was all the way uphill, so I thought, I'll just putt it up there and it went in the hole.   
So I mean, it's a good bonus because nine times out of ten, maybe you make a bogey from that spot and now you turn a bogey into a birdie and that's a big thing.   
 Q.  Putting seems to be the key this week.  I think you spent some extra time on the greens.  Did you know it coming into this week or was it just something you wanted to work on?  
JOOST LUITEN: It's just something I wanted to work on but putting is important every week, really.  I wanted to change a couple things and I spent some extra time yesterday on the putting green and it's good to see that it paid out today.   
 Q.  Give us an idea, runner-up finish just a few weeks ago in Spain.  How much confidence does that give you going into this stretch of the season?  
JOOST LUITEN: Second place like that, coming down the stretch and trying to win a golf tournament, it builds confidence.  I knew I was playing well but it's nice to see some results, as well, coming your way.  Hopefully I can keep the same feeling coming down these last three tournaments here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT