BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 22, 2017
Joost Luiten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A round of 66 out there today.  What pleased you most about your play?
JOOST LUITEN: I think I made some nice putts come down the stretch on my back nine.  I hit the ball pretty good.  Didn't get into trouble too much, but the key was I think good putting.
Q. Tied seventh in your last start, Lyoness Open, your best finish so far this season.  How do you feel about your form where it is right now?
JOOST LUITEN: It's getting there.  I struggled a little bit with the long game which normally is one of my strong parts.  But I've been struggling a little bit and then you get into trouble off the tee and these courses are very hard.  It's good to see that I'm hitting the ball a little bit better, creating a lot of chances, and if the putter works, you can make a lot of birdies.
Q. Your season doesn't tell the whole truth because as much as there's only one Top-10, there's eight in the top 30.  So a lot of consistency but a player of your standard, hoping for more.  How hard is it to stay patient?
JOOST LUITEN: It's hard.  You want to be there on Sunday trying to win tournaments, and if you finish between seventh and 30th, it's a good week, but it's not what you hope for.  You have to stay patient and you have to work on the right things and hopefully then the form will be a little bet better.  And we're just talking like half a shot around, and that's the difference between 15th place or top five.  Just got to stay patient.
Q. Five birdies in your last six holes.  Is this the sort of golf course where you get on a bit of a run you can string the birdies together?
JOOST LUITEN: Yeah, if you hit the fairways and just give yourself chances, you can make some putts, and that's what I did on my back nine and hopefully we can keep it going.
Q. Great round of 66.  How was it out there?
JOOST LUITEN: It was good.  It was a nice, calm day, really.  In the morning it was a beautiful morning.  My start, 2-under after my front nine, the back nine of the course was okay, nothing special.
But then on my back nine, I rolled in some putts and made five birdies in six holes, and then there's a 6-under on the scorecard.
Q. A great 2-putt on the ninth, your last.  Tell us about that?
JOOST LUITEN: Yeah, I was just in-between clubs into the green.  2-iron with a little water in front wasn't enough, so 3-wood, came out beautiful.  A little bit too good almost, just over the green.  Managed to make a 2-putt from there and make a birdie and that's all I hoped for standing on the fairway.
Q. Putting was key for you today?
JOOST LUITEN: Yeah, I made a couple nice putts, especially where I made the birdies, I rolled in a couple nice ones, a couple tufters.  One 3-putt on the second hole, the tough par 3.  But if you make a lot, you can accept a 3-putt sometimes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT