100TH OPEN DE FRANCE
June 30, 2016
Joost Luiten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What changed on the back nine?
JOOST LUITEN: I started to hit the fairways.  From the fairways, you can attack the pins, and the first nine, I struggled a little off the tee, being in the rough too much, and then it's hard to really get it close.  On the back nine, I made a couple nice putts.
Q. How much does this course in this condition test the different aspects of the game?
JOOST LUITEN: Yeah, it's a very tough golf course.  You need to drive it well.  Short game, especially in this wind, if you miss a couple greens -- and I was very good the first ten holes.  The short game really saved myself a couple times but it's just a very demanding course.  You can't just let your golf down.  You have to be there all the time and you have to be on the ball.
Q. 17 Top-10s in four starts this year; what's behind the consistently good form?
JOOST LUITEN: Just hitting the ball solid off the tee.  I think that's for me where my game starts.  If I can hit the fairways, I'm pretty good with the irons into the greens.  I've been hitting it pretty well and that with good putting compared to last year, I think that's the biggest difference.
Q. Any particular thing that you've changed?
JOOST LUITEN: Been working on my balance a lot.  That's really working out.  Before that my balance was all over the place and the consistency is not there, and now the balance is good and the consistency is there, as well.
Q. Looks like a very nice score for the afternoon.
JOOST LUITEN: Yeah, I'm happy, anything around par, under par is a very good score in the afternoon. It's just tough with the rain and the wind, very tough golf course, 2-under par, I'll take it.
Q. It's been pretty breezy all day but it certainly seemed to pick up during the afternoon.  Where were you?
JOOST LUITEN: I think it's normal like this here.  A little bit less wind in the morning and then in the afternoon it picks up.  It's just one of these courses that you have to be on the ball.  You have to be patient, wait for your chances and I think that's what I've done really well today and I got rewarded with a couple nice birdies on the back nine.
Q. More than just a couple; it was four, wasn't it, on the way home, really turned it on for awhile?
JOOST LUITEN: I started to hit from the fairway and from the fairway you can be more aggressive into the pins and making a couple nice putts, as well.  The front nine, I just didn't hit it good off the tee and then you have to hang on for par.  Luckily I did that pretty good but I need to hit it better tomorrow.
Q. Everybody says how difficult the 18th can be, so do you forgive yourself when you drop a shot there?
JOOST LUITEN: Yeah, you know it's a very hard hole.  If you miss the drive or if you miss the fairway, you know pretty much it's a lay-up.  Hit it at a good lie in the rough and then you just have to play it smart and try to make par from there and then I just missed a par putt.  It's one of these holes that a 5 is not too bad.
Q. Nothing but positives into day two?
JOOST LUITEN: Yeah, positive good score, so hopefully we can keep it going tomorrow and hopefully we can hit it a little bit better off the tee and play like I did the last nine today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT