U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2015
Joost Luiten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JOOST LUITEN: It was a good back nine.  I played pretty well on the front nine, but I just didn't make any putts and two bogeys, being out of position on those two holes.  Sometimes it happens on this course; you just need to accept that. But I didn't make my birdie putts on the front nine and luckily on the back nine I managed to make a couple of good putts and keep the mistakes off the card.  A 1-under score today, I'm very happy with that.   Q.  Your experience was key today, a few years ago that round could have got away from you?  JOOST LUITEN: It was key to me to stay calm after being 2-over after 7.  I thought if I just keep playing my game and give myself the chances that I had on the first nine, then hopefully I can make some birdies. And, yeah, I think that was the key for today to stay calm, be patient and wait for your chances.  And luckily they went in on the back nine.   Q.  What did you think of the course setup today compared to how it was yesterday?  JOOST LUITEN: I think it's a little bit tougher today.  The tee boxes are a bit more back.  The pin positions were a little bit tougher I thought. But it was still a very fair test of golf, if you hit the ball good you could make some birdies.  And of course there's always some holes where you just know that par is a good score.  And it's a very good test of golf, I think.   Q.  Are there a couple of holes that play to your strengths so far?  JOOST LUITEN: I think key on every hole is just staying in position.  Hit the fairways and hit it on the right side of the hole and to the greens.  I managed to play my game, which is normally good iron play.  And I think that's why I'm 3-under because I didn't really go out of position that much. And if you just can make a couple of putts.  You don't have to make ten putts around here on this course, you just need to make a couple, then you're 3-under for tournament and right there.   Q.  What did you learn from yesterday that you took into today?  JOOST LUITEN: You learn a lot from yesterday, but it all depends on where the pins are on the greens, every hole can play different.  They can use different tee boxes, so you just have to take it day-by-day, stay patient and take the hole has it comes and play the right way, I think that's the key for this week.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT