U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 18, 2015
Joost Luiten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How good do you feel about that round?JOOST LUITEN: I'm very happy with that round.  It's a tough golf course, and you know that before you go out.  And to shoot 68 in the first round, I mean, that's a good start.  And I think I'm very pleased with that.Q. How did you find the course playing today?JOOST LUITEN: I think the setup was pretty fair.  They put quite a few tees forward, especially on the par-3s, which I think is a good thing.  So I think they got the setup pretty good, and it played fair.  Tough, but I think it was pretty fair.  And, yeah, they did firm up a little bit in the afternoon, but you know that's going to happen and you just have to make sure that you're in the right position on the green every time.Q. How good does it feel to get off to a good start like this, you don't have much experience?JOOST LUITEN: It's my second U.S. Open, and that's what you're hoping for, to get you into the tournament, so you can settle down a little bit.  But it's still a long way, it's only one round and we've got three more to go.  You just need to be top of your game every day.Q. This course is only eight years old.  And it was designed with the U.S. Open in mind, but also replicating the British Isles links courses, how close to that do you think they've come?JOOST LUITEN: Yeah, it does play like a links course, but it's a little different than the ones they have in Scotland.  Like Carnoustie, you can run the ball on those greens, and here you have to fly it all the way up to the greens, which I think is the biggest difference between those links courses and that's why this course is so tough.  You just have to try to stop them, but it's hard when it's firm.  So I think that's the biggest difference between that.Q. How long was the putt on 7?JOOST LUITEN: I would say about, I don't know, 20-foot.  Those are bonuses.  And I've been putting really well.  It's tough because the greens are speed-wise are different and I finally had a good line and gave it a good run and it went in.  So that's definitely a good bonus.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT