BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2015
Joost Luiten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JOOST LUITEN:   Good score, 5‑under on this course is always good.   I didn't hit the ball the way I wanted but I took advantage of the chances that I got and with some good short game, I managed to keep a lot of bogeys off the card.  
   
 Q.   What made the difference today?   
JOOST LUITEN:   Putting.   Today I holed some really nice putts.   Yesterday I had 33 putts, so that doesn't help.   So I think that was the big difference today, and although I hit the ball good yesterday, I hit it a lot better today.  
   
 Q.   And presumably with a round of 67, you can move yourself into a decent position.   
JOOST LUITEN:   Yeah, I think a nice position going into the weekends, and you need to be patient on this course.   Wait for your chances and par is pretty good.   So you know, we'll see what happens in the weekend.  
   
 Q.   You're sounding good, this time last week, I gather you weren't.   
JOOST LUITEN:   No, I had a lot of trouble with my throat, and it's a lot better now.   I can talk and eat again, so I'm happy.  
   
 Q.   What was it?   Were you confined to bed as a result?   
JOOST LUITEN:   Yeah, I was just in bed for three or four days.   It was just a virus that I got in the States and sometimes you just get sick and you have to stay in bed and make sure you're better before you get out.   So that's what I've done, and I'm happy to be here.  
   
 Q.   Hasn't affected preparations; not affected your score obviously.   
JOOST LUITEN:   No, I would have wanted to practice a little bit more but when you're sick, you have to be careful and better to stay one day longer in bed and make sure you're really better than practising again and get sick.   So we are good going into the weekend and see what we can do.   
   
 Q.   Wider picture, how is the season going?   
JOOST LUITEN:   I had some decent weeks in the States but nothing special really.   I'm just looking for some good form.   At least back in Europe now, I know these courses and I know what I can do, so hopefully it will help to have some good weeks.  
   
 Q.   Are you enjoying the experience from playing in the States that much more?  
JOOST LUITEN:   It's great.   It's very good for my development as a player to learn the courses out there, to compete with the best and you know, it's a very good experience, and I learned a lot there.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT