ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
September 21, 2014
Joost Luiten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   A great win here at The Wales Open, how hard was that win?   
JOOST LUITEN:   It was tough.   It was hard work down the last.   I didn't have the start I really wanted today.   I had two bogeys to start with, and then the two shots that I had came straight back, and you know it's going to be a tough day.   Just tried to hang in there and wait for my chances, and made some nice birdies at the end and a good par down the last was luckily enough.   
   
 Q.   Really a strong performance, you got on the first hole, you hit that shot in there to 35 feet and you left yourself an 8‑footer.   How did that feel?   What was going through the brain box at that moment?  
JOOST LUITEN:   Well, there's always a lot of tension on the first hole.   The first hole is always try to settle down, try to make an easy par or birdie and then I left myself quite a tricky first putt and I just didn't read it well.   I didn't give the right pace and you leave yourself an 8‑footer downhill left‑to‑right and that's one you can make or miss and I missed it today.   
You just try to settle down the first couple holes, and after that, I got back into my game.   I started to hit greens, and I just didn't really make any putts in the middle part.   Luckily we made a couple at the back.  
   
 Q.   Very hard to win your own National Open, and you did it last year.   That was a cool win.   How much did you learn from winning your own national open?  
JOOST LUITEN:   You learn a lot from winning your own tournament.   The pressure there is a little bit different than when you play in another country, and the more pressure, the more easier it is when you play somewhere else when you are more in the shadow of other guys.  
So it was a very important experience, and I think all those little things that you learn in the past makes you a better player can that's why you can win trophies now.  
   
 Q.   Is that a stab at McGinley, going you to have me on your team?  
JOOST LUITEN:   I knew the qualification when I ended and knew I needed to play better.   Luckily I'm in good form now, but I wish the team all the best and hopefully they can win.   
   
 Q.   Golf course was fantastic, wasn't it.   
JOOST LUITEN:   It's always great.   I've played it three times and it's always in great condition, great people, great volunteers.   This is a tournament that we like to play, and hopefully we can keep it going.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT