TROPHEE HASSAN II
April 24, 2019
Joost Luiten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You've had a few weeks off but nice to be back on the road in a tournament like this?  
JOOST LUITEN: Yeah, I mean, I like this tournament.  I like this golf course.  I've done well in the past, so I'm happy to be back and hopefully we can have a good week here.   
 Q.  When you're playing golf on a course that's as tough and as demanding as this is, how important is it having good memories of this place?  
JOOST LUITEN: It's tough because it's only the way it is.  It's only the second year we play it, so they changed the greens.  I think the most important thing when you play a golf course like this, you have to stay patient.  Sometimes you have to accept that you're going to make a bogey or out of position and it's hard to get back into position on this golf course.  I just think you have to stay patient.  I like playing a tough golf course because it makes you focus.  It makes you think every shot, and this golf course is very demanding.   
 Q.  Last year we saw Alex win with a score of just 8-under par, so it goes to reinforce the idea that sometimes you have to be content with dropping shots.  
JOOST LUITEN: Yeah, that's what sometimes you've got to accept, and a bogey is not the worst.  You've got to stay away from the double-bogeys or triple-bogeys.  The key here is hitting the fairways.  If you hit the fairways you can be pretty aggressive to the pins and attack the pins but if you're out of position on the tee, you're going to struggle and the greens are the hardest bit, and if you can't control the spin on the ball you're going to struggle big time.   
 Q.  We've had a few weeks off since the last few events on The European Tour.  What have you done to prepare for the next run of the season?  
JOOST LUITEN: I've seen my coach a lot.  The first week I took some time off because I have a bit of a bad back, so I took it easy.  Then the last week I've really practiced hard.  Especially on the short game, try to tidy that up a little bit, and if I can have a good short game and play my game from tee-to-green, I can be dangerous this week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT