PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2014
Joost Luiten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JOOST LUITEN:   Feeling good.   Played some good solid golf for the first 14 holes.   The last couple of holes was a bit up‑and‑down.   Didn't hit many good shots, but I managed to play par.   Five going into the weekend is good, so I'm happy.

Q.   A few off the lead.   What are you going to do differently tomorrow?
  JOOST LUITEN:   I think I've got a good game plan.   You have to hit the fairways and be pretty aggressive at the greens, especially now with the rain.   They are fairly soft, so they hold.   You just have to hit your irons good and then you can putt for birdie.   That's what you have to do. 

Q.   Do you think you caught a bit of a break playing this afternoon?
  JOOST LUITEN:   Yeah, I think if you can choose, you would rather play in the afternoon today than in the morning.   They had some rain.   It's never fun to play in the rain.   We had a little bit and I think a little bit lucky with the draw, yeah.

Q.   Were you one of those who had a conversation with (inaudible)?
  JOOST LUITEN:   Just a short chat on the putting green.   He just basically told me what I already knew is that I need to play well.   That's what I'm trying and we'll see if I can make the Ryder Cup or not. 

Q.   Is that a distraction or does that help?
  JOOST LUITEN:   A bit of both.   I mean, it can help you on the course but it can distract you, especially off the course, you know. 

Q.   Is it in your mind a lot?
  JOOST LUITEN:   No, not really.   When you are playing, you are focusing on the shot that you have to play, not on Ryder Cup or any other stuff.   You have to play golf and shoot a low score.   We'll see what happens.

Q.   Are you thinking wildcard or are you thinking you have got to qualify to make it?
  JOOST LUITEN:   I think I've got to qualify.   That's the plan.   You want to play your way into the team.   If I don't then I think there are a few boys that got a pick before me.   You have to be realistic, I think.   I have to play well the next couple of weeks.

Q.   Put yourself in good position today.   What is the game going into the weekend?
  JOOST LUITEN:   Same.   Fairways and greens is the key for this golf course, especially now with the wet rough and it's playing long.   So you have to be on the short stuff to make some birdies and create some birdie chances. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT