PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2014
Joost Luiten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Give us your thoughts?
JOOST LUITEN:   Well, it's always nice to open with a birdie.   I hit a good drive and a good 9‑iron to like about nine feet and made the putt.   So that helps.   And then just had a bad swing on the third, the par3, which was also a bogey.   Then another 3‑putt on the next. 
You know, after that, I thought just try to hit the fairways and the greens and try to make some putts.   Made a good birdie on 6 and good birdie on 7.

Q.   Distances? 
JOOST LUITEN:   Pretty close.   They were both within seven feet I think, and then on 9 was a bonus, holing a fairly long putt, I think 20 feet from the back of the green. 
You just need one or two of those every round, that really helps.   You know, that's the nine opening holes that you're looking for, 2‑under after nine, and then after that, I played some solid golf and tried to just, you know, hit the greens and take it from there.   That's what you need to do on this course I guess. 

Q.   Nice to finish with a birdie, as well? 
JOOST LUITEN:   It is a birdie hole, especially today.   The wind is helping off the right a little bit.   It's a par 5 that you can reach, so that really feels like you have to make birdie there, and I'm happy that I did that.   So it does help walking off that hole with another birdie in the pocket.

Q.   This is a big week, but the inevitable Ryder Cup question. 
JOOST LUITEN:   You know it's there and you know we have a couple more weeks to qualify.   I know I need to play well to have a chance to make it to the team but I just can focus on every round.   I need to play good golf.   That's all I need to focus on.   If I do that, I might have a chance, and if I don't, then I don't have a chance.   It's pretty simple in my eyes I think. 

Q.   You're playing in between now and the cutoff, what events will you play? 
JOOST LUITEN:   I will play the last two of the qualification back in Europe.   So I've got three more including this one and you just need to probably win one or finish high this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT