BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2014
Joost Luiten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   A round of 67, not a single dropped shot.   Very tidy today.
JOOST LUITEN:   That was the most important thing today, no bogeys.   I made some good up‑and‑downs to save par.   I think that's what you need to do on this course.   You're going to miss greens and you're going to be in bunkers and then you have to have a good short game to save par and that's what I did today.

Q.   You're going to have to attack it looks like with Thomas now surging ahead here.   What is your view of the situation tomorrow? 
JOOST LUITEN:   We'll see how far he's ahead, but I think you have to focus on your own game and try to make some birdies and put some pressure on him.   But there's more guys in the field than Thomas, and he can make some mistakes, as well.   I just have to play well and we'll see what that brings out in the afternoon tomorrow. 

Q.   We're seeing more of you these days, and I know back home in Holland there's an awful lot of interest in you, particularly in relation to The Ryder Cup.   Do you hear a lot of talk about the Ryder Cup? 
JOOST LUITEN:   Yeah, especially in Holland, they always ask me, are you going to make the team; how are you going to do it. 
You know, I just say, I'm going to play golf this year and we'll see if that's good enough to make the team, and if it's not, then there's another Ryder Cup in two years from now.   I just try to take the pressure off, but everybody likes to talk about it.

Q.   And they also like to talk about the fact that you are raising the bar for Dutch golf at the moment and obviously the wonderful performance at the Masters, first time, and there's a contingent of foot soldiers from the Dutch army watching you. 
JOOST LUITEN:   There was some Dutch people out there cheering me on which was nice, and I brought my own team with me.   To make the weekend in your first appearance is really good, so I was really happy with that. 

Q.   What are your thoughts on the way you've moved into contention nicely at this championship?
JOOST LUITEN:   I'm very happy with today's round.   I didn't make any bogeys.   Had some good short game.   I did miss a few greens, but my short game saved me every time, and I think that was the most important thing today, to keep the bogeys off the scorecard and make some birdies.

Q.   Especially given all the trying weather conditions, and you didn't know what season it was out there for a while?
JOOST LUITEN:   Yes, it was umbrella up, umbrella down and wind was up‑and‑down, as well.   So it was tough, and you just try to stay patient and try to make your pars when it's tough conditions and when the wind is down and the rain is gone, you just try to be a bit more aggressive about it.   But it's a tough course and you just have to be patient. 

Q.   I know things have changed now but are you conscious of just how nicely placed you are in relation to the leader? 
JOOST LUITEN:   Yeah, he's making some birdies now, but you know, we'll see tomorrow where we stand and how he's playing.   You just have to make some birdies yourself to put some pressure on him, and we'll see tomorrow. 

Q.   It it's worth stressing, there's plenty of chances, aren't there?
JOOST LUITEN:   If you hit some good iron shots, you can make some birdies.   You just have to be patient and hit some good shots. 

Q.   Does it make a difference knowing this is a Flagship Event and there's so many ranking points and money involved?
JOOST LUITEN:   I think it's no different.   I think you try to win every tournament and that brings pressure with it, and it's the same here.   Just try to win the event, but of course tomorrow when you're on the first tee, you will feel the pressure.   But that's good and that's what you like. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT