MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2014
Joost Luiten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JOOST LUITEN:   Feels really good to shoot 67 on Sunday at the Masters.   I mean, that's great for me.   It's always good to shoot 67, but here at the Masters on Sunday, on the final day, feels really good.   I look at my tournament I'm very happy. 
Yesterday was a little bit of an off day, and in the future you need four good days to compete here. 

Q.   How enjoyable is the whole experience?
JOOST LUITEN:   It's great.   You learn so much playing in these events, playing tough courses like this, putting yourself in the positions that you need to be in.   And you take that to the next tournament that you play in and those tournaments will feel easy compared to this.

Q.   How was the course setup today, was there a good score out there?
JOOST LUITEN:   Yes, it felt like they watered the greens a little bit overnight.   They were a little bit slower and a little bit more forgiving as yesterday.   They were very slick and quick yesterday.   So it felt like they set it up a little bit easier, but there were still a lot of tough pin positions and you just have to play smart to some of them and take your par and then go on to the next.

Q.   We saw some of the birdies on the internal TV but any that stand out for you?   7 and 8?
JOOST LUITEN:   Yeah, I hit it stiff on 7.   That pin was very accessible.   You're going in with a wedge today.   It was just an easy birdie. 
But to finish off on the 18, you've seen all the stories, and you see how many guys have been struggling over the years in the final.   And if you finish off with a birdie it feels good.

Q.   Paul McGinley has been here this week.   Did you have a chance to speak to him?
JOOST LUITEN:   No, I haven't seen him this week, but I spoke to him a lot in Asia and the EurAsia, so I know what to do, I need to play well.   I need to get enough points to qualify myself for the team.

Q.   Has he given you no hints about wild cards if it came to that?
JOOST LUITEN:   No, I can't discuss that.   There are loads of guys.   It's so far away.   The qualification is just under way.   We're only halfway.   And three more Majors coming up.   You just need to play well in one or two of them or win one or two normal events and then you'll make the team.   So that's my plan.   That's my goal for this year.   I got some nice points here, as well. 

Q.   Most impressive, obviously, watching you perform in an event like this, in your debut, to do so well?
JOOST LUITEN:   I've done well in the past in Majors.   I played British Open twice, made the cut there, and US PGA a couple years back.   It's good for my experience and development as a player, and I think that's more important than anything else at the moment.   And you just learn a lot from it and you take it to the next.

Q.   What's your schedule?
JOOST LUITEN:   I'm going to come back for The PLAYERS.   I take three weeks off now and take some time off and then I'll come back fit and ready to go for the players and then back to Europe for events that I really like. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT