ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 19, 2019
Joost Luiten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A round of 65 for a total of 15-under par, the high right of which was the two eagles, the first one on 9.  Tell us about that.  
JOOST LUITEN: Yeah, hit my drive into the desert.  I had a perfect lie, 157 metres, hit a 6-iron and it came out perfect and went in the hole, so it was a nice bonus.   
 Q.  You made eagle at the last, you don't expect the last two guys to collapse, but you'll be sticking around?  
JOOST LUITEN: There some things need to happen but I'm just happy with what I did and put some pressure on them to finish third, probably.  But you never know.  It's golf.  I'll keep close.   
 Q.  Give us a since of how the last few holes are playing.  Is it enough to cruise your way in or is it tough?  
JOOST LUITEN: Tough.  16, 17 are playing into the wind.  You have to hit the fairway to really give yourself a chance to get it close.  Bogeys are pretty easy to make, but you've just got to drive it well.   
 Q.  246 starts and this is your 200th made cut and 50th Top-10.  
JOOST LUITEN: That's not bad.  I didn't know those numbers.  That's good numbers I guess.   
 Q.  Nice way to finish.  
JOOST LUITEN: The one on 18 you could see some eagles there, but the one on 9 I made holing out a 6-iron from the desert, from the sand, a big bonus.   
 Q.  A massive tournament, great reaction out there.  How nice to be back on the right end of the leaderboard?  
JOOST LUITEN: It's great.  I had a tough time at the end of last year with an injury, so it's good to be back playing again and great to start off the season with a top three or four or whatever it's going to be.   
I'm just happy with the way I'm playing.  I feel happy on the golf course then and that's a good thing, I guess.   
 Q.  Five dropped shots over the four days.  Good to keep bogeys off the card?  
JOOST LUITEN: Yeah, especially on this track.  The wind has been blowing on the weekend, and to make only five bogeys four rounds, that's what you've got to do.  Keep the bogeys off the scorecard and make birdies where you can find them.   
 Q.  New rules starting with this tournament, and we saw you putting with the flag in with good success.  Is it strange to do that?  
JOOST LUITEN: To be honest it was the first time I did that.  I had a downhiller and I thought, I'm just going to leave it in because it might help me, and it went right in the middle.   
I think you'll see it more and more, and especially on the long putts it can definitely help you, depth perception, as well, maybe.  If it goes in hard, normally it lips out and now maybe the flag will still keep it in the hole.   
 Q.  Such a great performance here.  How are you hoping that will transfer over into the next few eagle weeks into what hopefully will be a good season for you?  
JOOST LUITEN: I just need to keel doing what I'm doing now.  The swing feels comfortable and I'm hitting some great iron shots, and I just need to keep doing that.  If I keep giving myself birdie chances, I'll make a couple.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT