ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 27, 2013
Joost Luiten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   36 holes, is the game feeling easy to you at the moment?  
JOOST LUITEN:   I'm playing pretty good.   The conditions were pretty good, as well.   You could really make a good score.   I just gave myself a lot of chances and then you have to roll in some putts and that's what I did today.   
   
 Q.   Does your job feel like the best thing at the world at the moment:   You're winning tournaments, you're here playing in a marquis event, great weather, great courses, loads of money.   
JOOST LUITEN:   It does feel pretty good, so I've got nothing to complain about at the moment.  
   
 Q.   What's been the key to the victory and the way you're playing right now?  
JOOST LUITEN:   I think my putting has improved, and the short game, I've been working hard on that part.   I think my short game is good enough now that if I have any problems, I can still save par and win tournaments.   I think that's the biggest improvement over the last year really.   
   
 Q.   The last time you were out on the golf course you were winning in your native Holland.   How was that received at home?  
JOOST LUITEN:   There was a big party on Sunday night and it was really good.   I mean, everybody was happy.   It was in all the papers and I think that's good for golf and good for Holland.   
  
Q.   More than a solid round yesterday, 5‑under par, but today you shot seven birdies, one eagle and a spotless bogey‑free round; how was it?  
JOOST LUITEN:   I'm really happy with my game.   I played solid.   I didn't miss a green.   Created a lot of birdie chances and especially at the end I made some nice putts and all of a sudden you've got 9‑under on the card.   
   
 Q.   You must be pleased with your game, you just won two weeks ago back home in Holland.   Did you spend the last two weeks partying?   
JOOST LUITEN:   Sunday night was a good party, and then after that, I had to do some media stuff on Monday and Tuesday, and then I had a few days off and I focused on golf on the weekend again, so I didn't do too much.   
   
 Q.   We are seeing very low scores today; 14‑under par going into the third round, how are your chances to get the next victory?  
JOOST LUITEN:   Well, it's still a long way.   Playing the Old Course tomorrow.   But you're in a good position, the position that you want to be in, and if I can keep on playing like I did today, we'll see what happens on Sunday.   
But I mean, a lot of the boys are playing well, and the conditions are really good, so you have to stay patient, and you have to create birdie chances and you have to make them, and I have to do that 36 more holes.  
   
 Q.   Looking to next week after Sunday, you'll be going to Paris to play the Seve Trophy; how are the expectations on that?  
JOOST LUITEN:   I'm really looking forward to that.   I never played match play as a pro.   You're in a team.   I've never played in a team as a pro, so I'm really looking forward to that week, and it will be different than other weeks and I think it should be a lot of fun.   
   
 Q.   Another team you're putting your cards on that's about to be played in one year's time, how much do you focus on The Ryder Cup?  
JOOST LUITEN:   Well, it's always in the back of your head, especially when you play well and win tournaments, you look at those rankings.   But I just need to focus on my game and play well like I've been doing the last couple weeks, and then we'll see halfway next year somewhere where we are.   But, you know, if you play well in these events, you are going to make some points and do well.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT