ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
August 31, 2013
Joost Luiten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JOOST LUITEN:   I'm pretty happy actually.   It was a tough day.   The wind was completely different than the first two days, completely the other direction and that made it tough.   You had to think a lot about what you hit off the tee and into the greens because it was different, but 2‑under is I think very good.   You stay connected with the leaders and hopefully we'll have a good one tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Almost like trying to survive because you don't have to do a lot wrong to slip back.   
JOOST LUITEN:   It's just about making pars on this course.   If you make pars you won't lose a lot of ground on the leaders.   You see nobody really runs away with it.   So just stay patient, wait for your chances and when you get one, you have to take them.  
   
 Q.   Is that frustrating for a man who did shoot 64 around here last time?  
JOOST LUITEN:   No, not frustrating, but just have to be patient.   That's what happened last year, I was patient, and I rolled in some putts and all of a sudden you're 7‑under.  
   
 Q.   You appreciate what can be achieved and you're moving along, seeing the scores relative to it‑‑  
JOOST LUITEN:   Yeah, I think it's good to know that you can go low on this course because when you have 7‑under on this course, it's good.   
   
 Q.   You're in a fine position on that board.   
JOOST LUITEN:   Yeah, just wait until tomorrow and you have to be patient, and hopefully I can make some birdies and put the pressure on the leaders.   
It was tough today.   The wind came the other direction from the first two days and that made it a completely different course.   It was just a case of making par, actually.   It was tough.   
Yeah, I didn't have a great start, a bit of 3‑putt on the first for bogey but got it back on the fifth and another birdie on 9, and then managed to sneak in a few birdies and keep par on the rest.   
   
 Q.   You had a win and a second place at The Irish Open; how close to top form do you feel?   
JOOST LUITEN:   I feel pretty good actually.   Playing consistent, game feels good.   Starting to make some putts.   I think that's really important, and yeah, it's all about confidence; if you win and a second place gives you confidence, then, yeah, you know, you go out with the confidence and that really helps.   
   
 Q.   How excited about the possibilities tomorrow?  
JOOST LUITEN:   Very excited.   It will be a fun day, a tough day again.   I think you have to be patient on this course and just wait for your chances and when you get to them, you have to take them.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT