BELGIAN KNOCKOUT
May 18, 2018
Joost Luiten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOOST LUITEN: I had a good start.  That's what I wanted, you know, to get back into it.  I knew I had to go like 2-, 3-under par on a very difficult golf course.  I had a good start, 2-under after five, gave it back with a double-touch chip on 9, double-bogey there.
You know, you've got to try and keep it in your head that you still have a chance and you can still make birdie, so I made a great birdie on 12, almost a hole-in-one and gave it straight back on 13.  Then you think, well, I'm running out of holes and all of a sudden you make a nice birdie on 16 and you hole a chip on 17 and that gets you right back into the cut line.
It had everything, and it's very exhausting round, but I'm very happy that I'm in the weekend and from scratch on the weekend, so it's good?
Q. What were you thinking with four or five to play, being 3-over par as you were?
JOOST LUITEN: Well, I thought I have to be aggressive.  I had to hit them close because I wasn't feeling very comfortable with the putter, so I felt like I had to hit them close.  I created a lot of chances pretty much all the last two days, but I couldn't really make any, and then if you make silly double-bogeys, it's hard to make a score.
That's why I needed the finish that I had today, and I just tried to be aggressive.
Q. The first putt on 16, how big was that, to convert that?
JOOST LUITEN: Yeah, that pretty much felt like I had to keep myself alive there by holing that putt and luckily it went in, and then you see how funny golf is and all of a sudden you're in the weekend and anything can happen now.
Q. Talk us through 17?
JOOST LUITEN: Yeah, I had 235 metres from the flag to the fairway.  Tried to hit a 3-iron but I thinned it a little bit to the right rough.  Had a pitch from like 35 yards, maybe 30 yards and it came out a little bit hot, once bounce, and in the hole.  That shows you how funny this game is, and you know, if that doesn't go in, you'll probably be home on the weekend, and now all of a sudden you're here.
Q. What does it mean, having qualified and being so close to home?
JOOST LUITEN: Yeah, I really wanted to qualify because I think this format could be a lot of fun on the weekend, but first of all, you have to make the weekend.  I think nine holes knockout is going to be fun.  It's going to be quick.  It's going to be exciting.  Hopefully I can do well and hole a couple putts and make it to Sunday.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT