ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
June 2, 2012
Joost Luiten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Right now you're at the top of the leaderboard, must be a nice feeling?  
JOOST LUITEN:   Always nice to be leader in the clubhouse, so we'll see what happens today with the afternoon guys, and we'll see what happens tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   When you went out today, did you think a score as low as that was possible?   
JOOST LUITEN:   It's a course that if you play well, you can shoot a decent score.   I played well, putted good today, and then, yeah, there's some low ones out there.  
   
 Q.   How has the weather affected everyone this week, even yourself, when you're out there shooting a good score but the weather changes?   
JOOST LUITEN:   The weather was tough because it was quite cold this morning, and the balls flew a little further in the afternoon.   The wind was swirling around and it was really tough to decide where it came from.   You need to be patient and take your time for shots to really get over the shot.   
   
 Q.   We talked to a couple of players this week who won last year for the first time and they seem to be different and they seem to walk taller.   Is that the same in your case?  
JOOST LUITEN:   It's always good to have a win in your pocket and that gives you more confidence, of course.   I think it will make you taller.  
   
 Q.   Will you watch much of the golf for the rest of the day?  
JOOST LUITEN:   I think I'm going to do a little bit of practise and then I'll go back to the hotel and I might watch a little bit of golf.   At the end I need to come out tomorrow and shoot another good score to have a good chance tomorrow, so I'm not really bothered about the other guys.  
   
 Q.   I see in your interests you list computers; does that mean you're a stats man?  
JOOST LUITEN:   No, I think that list was made a long time ago.   That's not really correct anymore.   I'm not really a stats guy, no.   
   
 Q.   Wonderful score today, just talk us through it a little bit.   
JOOST LUITEN:   I didn't have a great start.   I was 1‑over after five.   I made a bogey at the fifth and came back with two nice birdies on 6 and 7 and that got my round going.   
After that I missed a short putt on 8, made another good putt on 9 and 10, and then that kind of stuff, you know, just created a lot of chances and I made some nice putts.   And the one on 15, that's a bonus.   
The wind was different on the first today, so it played downwind the last three.   That's a big difference, because if you play them into the wind there, normally you hit long irons and now you're going in with 7‑ or 8‑irons.   That's a big difference but of course it's nice to make an eagle on the par 4.   It will help, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Ten shots better than the first day; did you think your chances were gone after the first day?  
JOOST LUITEN:   After the first day, I knew the scores, the leaderboard was packed and the leader was only 3‑under when I finished so we were really close to each other.   You know if you shoot a low score you will be right up there.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT