OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 24, 2011
Joost Luiten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tell me about this first round, because that's good scoring. 
JOOST LUITEN:   Yeah, 8‑under today, that wasn't easy out there.   There was a lot of wind.   So 8‑under, I think we did a good job today. 
I played good on the front nine and then Robert took over on the back nine, and I think that's what you need to do in four‑ball, make birdies on different holes and not the same hole.   I think that's what we did today. 

Q.   When you are playing fourballs, is it about yourself or is there still teamwork involved?
JOOST LUITEN:   It's still team work.   You try to work out a system, like Robert goes first and whenever he's on the fairway, I can take a little bit more aggressive line or when he's on the green.   So there's a little bit of strategy in there.   But you still need to hit the ball yourself and you try to play as good as possible. 

Q.   And his knowledge of playing IN the World Cup?
JOOST LUITEN:   He's the guy with the experience, and so rely on him a lot.   

Q.   Presumably with the victory ‑‑
JOOST LUITEN:   He was quite happy, and I've been playing quite well the last few weeks.   I think he's happy to have me as a partner and I'm happy to have him as a partner. 

Q.   Are you still on a high?
JOOST LUITEN:   It's a tournament again, and you need to be focussed on what you need to do today.   But the last few days were special, and now let's focus for four days and we can have a little bit of a party back home.

Q.   Haven't had a huge distance to travel but I suppose that eats into any time to really reflect or celebrate. 
JOOST LUITEN:   Well, you don't really know what's going on back home in Holland.   That's the only thing.   You miss a little bit what's written in the newspaper and stuff like that, but it's good to play the next week, as well.   I always say when you're playing good, you need to keep playing. 

Q.   Presumably everyone has been congratulating you and shaking your hand, saying well done. 
JOOST LUITEN:   Yeah, everybody comes over and you get a lot of texts and phone calls and stuff like that, so that's nice.   It's always nice if the other guys congratulate you.   It's a good feeling. 

Q.   I suppose this is a wonderful way to cap it, representing your country in the World Cup. 
JOOST LUITEN:   Yeah, it's great to represent your country.   For me it's the first time, and it's different and I really like it.   It's fun. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT