PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 17, 2010
Joost Luiten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOOST LUITEN: I played pretty good. Played decent. Didn't make a lot of mistakes, especially on the Sunday, just tried to hang in there and wait for the chances. I expected the scores to be a little bit lower, actually, and you saw on the scoreboard that nothing was really happening and you try to sneak in a few birdies, and finish second. So it's a great week for me. 

 Q. You did have a chance to go even closer on that back nine, didn't you, the way the scores were working out? 
 JOOST LUITEN: I created a lot of good birdie chances on the front nine, as well, but I missed out on a few putts, but yet it could have been a bit better. I'm happy and it's a good week for me, almost for sure in Top 60 now. 
 So I mean, I had a great week. 

 Q. And I guess in some ways you backed into second place, but that's the best finish for quite some time?
 JOOST LUITEN: Since I finished in Holland second. Since then, it's my best finish. So it's a great week. 

 Q. Did you at the start of play today, think, you've got a very realistic chance, knowing just how many birdies there are? 
 JOOST LUITEN: Yeah, I knew that if I wanted to win, you should go to I thought 19-, 20-under had a chance. But then it, you saw that it was a little bit tougher than the other days because the wind was pretty hard and out of a little different direction. 
 So I just, yeah, thought if I could make a few birdies on the back nine, and try to get in the top three, I mean, then I'm happy and I finished second, it's even better. 

 Q. And I take it it's onwards and upwards from here, all of the injuries, very much in the past? 
 JOOST LUITEN: Yeah, that's been gone for a year now, and I'm happy that I'm playing good again. It's always tough if you come back from such a long time off from the game to get back at this level. You never know what's going to happen. But I'm really happy that I managed to get back on my level and maybe a little bit better now and from here, hopefully we go to the next step and that's winning a tournament. 

 Q. I guess that's just building the game once again, but the confidence, as well. Just telling yourself you've done it. 
 JOOST LUITEN: Yeah, it's all about confidence, but it's tough when you come back and you're playing on a medical. You need to get the money in in a certain amount events, so you don't really get the time to learn again, you know. 
 But now it's all relaxed again and it's really good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT