TROPHEE HASSAN II
April 21, 2018
Joost Luiten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A 66, you must be absolutely delighted with that.  
JOOST LUITEN: Well, I wasn't expecting to be here, as you see.  I haven't shaved this morning, or last week, so I wasn't prepared to be in front of the cameras.  But I was expecting a solid round again.  I was quite happy with the two 72s to start with, and just things started to roll my way today.  Managed to score on the easier holes.   
 Q.  Conditions have been very different over the three days here.  How much did they help today?  
JOOST LUITEN: Well, it was rather chilly in the morning.  We had a little bit of rain when we were on the range but once that stopped, the wind dropped down, as well, so there was virtually nothing on the course.   
So just a little breeze every now and then and we knew the direction.  It was very steady, so it was quite easy to read all the time.   
 Q.  What pleased you most about your round today?  
JOOST LUITEN: I stayed really patient around 15 and 16 where the pins are tucked away a little bit and you can really mess up on those.   
I only had one ball plugged in the bunker today, which was in the first hole.   
 Q.  You've got a little bit of history around this course, is it a place you enjoy coming to?  
JOOST LUITEN: Yeah, I've had success, I believe I finished third once on this course.  I like the layout.  Everybody loves the layout.  Obviously we have new greens this year and it's made the course a bit trickier.   
 Q.  You've given yourself a chance to win this golf tournament with 18 holes to go.  Are you excited by that prospect?  
JOOST LUITEN: Of course.  The guys still have a lot of holes left.  We'll see how they come in.  They have obviously had a slow day.  I think the lead was still 7-under, so you never know.  Someone might do a couple of birdies and try to run away with it, but I'm close enough, definitely, tomorrow.   
 Q.  Give us your overall assessment of how it went.  
JOOST LUITEN: Good front nine, 3-under, and then the back nine, I couldn't really hole the putt anymore.  I missed a couple makeable putts like 17.  Made a 3-putt on 15.  So there's a couple that I left out there.   
But I'm still in a pretty good spot for tomorrow so hopefully you can hit some close and make some putts and we'll see what happens.   
 Q.  Conditions different today to the previous two days.  How much did that change your game plan?  
JOOST LUITEN: Not a lot.  There wasn't as much wind.  But you've got to play this course, depending on where the pin is, you've got to play smart sometimes and you've got to play away from pins.  Sometimes you're just happy that you hit the green and try to make a 2-putt for a par.  It's just a very demanding golf course.  You have to stay in position all the time and I did that pretty good except for a couple of times, and then you make mistakes.   
 Q.  Early in the week we spoke and you said you're looking for that second win and you've given yourself a good opportunity tomorrow.  Are you looking forward to that prospect?  
JOOST LUITEN: Yes, of course.  It's always good to be in the mix on Sunday.  That's why you play golf.  You want to win tournaments, so you've got to be in the mix.   
I'm looking forward to tomorrow.  Hopefully I can play a little better on the back nine and get it home.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT