FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 8, 2012
Jonathan Fly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You open with an eagle and go up and throw a 64.   Could you have drawn up a better day?  
JONATHAN FLY:   No.   Yeah, starting out with that got things rolling, and I made some shaky bogies there in the front-9 and told myself to stay with it and, you know, just never give up in this game.   
I shot 8-over yesterday.   Just kind of didn't have my stuff, and today I did.   So, it was a lot of fun out there.  
   
 Q.   How did you stop the 8-over yesterday from carrying over into today?  
JONATHAN FLY:   Got TO forget about it.   It's just golf.   I've had my fair share of bad days.   Try to move forward and play the best you can, every shot.  
   
 Q.   Right on the cut line.   Looks like you're in.   Did this enter your thought process yesterday at all?  
JONATHAN FLY:   I mean, yeah, it kind of got away from me yesterday, like I said, so I didn't feel like I played that bad and ended up shooting 78.   I just tried the best I could today and ended up being 66.   
   
 Q.   When you're coming down 18, do you know where you stood in terms of field?  
JONATHAN FLY:   No.  
   
 Q.   Didn't want to know?  
JONATHAN FLY:   No idea.   Too many nerves.   I just tried to stay in the present and do the best I could on each shot.  
   
 Q.   Any nerves hitting you on 18 as you're walking up there and realize you got some work to do?  
JONATHAN FLY:   I was trying to make a 4 there, trying to make a 3, but I didn't hit it in a very good spot.   Ended up making par.  
   
 Q.   Is this one of the best rounds you ever fired on this course?  
JONATHAN FLY:   Yeah, for sure.  
   
 Q.   Is this one of the best rounds you ever fired, period?  
JONATHAN FLY:   I don't know about period.  
   
 Q.   Did holing it at No. 1 just become a calming effect for you based on what happened yesterday?  
JONATHAN FLY:   Yesterday there were a lot of nerves, and making a 2 on 1 today kind of helped me settle into everything and kind of got a bad break off the tee.   Dropped straight down, I had a 6-iron into 1 and ended up making it.   Probably good way to start.  
   
 Q.   Take me through the hole a little bit.  
JONATHAN FLY:   Sort of.   We're off to the races.   
   
 Q.   Your goal is always to win your first professional tournament.   Do you feel now you have the confidence to compete with these guys after a 6-under today?  
JONATHAN FLY:   Yeah.   I guess I'm 7, 8 back right now.   It's going to take another couple of these rounds to win.   But yeah, I mean, today just showed that I can play with these guys and gives me a lot of confidence.  
   
 Q.   If the cut line holds up like this, you actually get paid.   Have you thought about what you're going to do with the money?  
JONATHAN FLY:   I haven't thought about that yet.   It's far away.  
   
 Q.   The shot on 17, that was a tremendous shot.   You had to know what was at stake, too, at this point.   What did you hit?  
JONATHAN FLY:   Punch 7, 160 front.   Just had to rope it around that tree and ended up right on the upslope of the fringe there and rode out perfect, about 3 feet.   Kind of -- that was probably the best shot of the day.  
   
 Q.   Then on 18, on the tee box, were you nervous and you hit it down the middle?  
JONATHAN FLY:   I hit it in the fairway yesterday.   Definitely some nerves today.   I just tried to stay with what I was doing all day and make the best swing I can and see what happens.  
   
 Q.   How many rounds would you guess you've played here in your life?  
JONATHAN FLY:   Over 500.  
   
 Q.   How much did that help, then, easing the nerves a little bit?   Nobody has got to know the course better than you.  
JONATHAN FLY:   Yesterday, just the first tee shot was horrendous.   I tried to get it airborne.   Today I was just a lot more focused and, you know, didn't worry about what anybody else was doing and did my own deal.  
   
 Q.   Did you -- last night were you pissed?   Were you discouraged?   What was the mindset?  
JONATHAN FLY:   I was pissed when I left the grounds here.   But I just told myself forget about it, it's just golf.   Whatever happens, happens.   I did the best I could today.  
   
 Q.   Did you have a goal of a 66?  
JONATHAN FLY:   That was the goal.   Maybe 3, 4-over was going to be the cut today.   So that was the goal and couple better than that.  
   
 Q.   Do you readjust your goal for tomorrow now?  
JONATHAN FLY:   I'll take another one of these.  
   
 Q.   When did you start really thinking about making this cut, 15, 16?   Where does it come into mind that "I might make this thing"?  
JONATHAN FLY:   After No. 1, really.   I made a 2 there.   I was right there.   6-over, just kind of play steady and solid the rest of the way and I probably had a good chance.  
  
 Q. Congratulations, man.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT