AMERICAN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 13, 2015
Troy Caupain
Gary Clark
Larry Davis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







CONNECTICUT   - 57
  CINCINNATI   - 54

MODERATOR:   Gentlemen and ladies, we would like to welcome from the University of Cincinnati Bearcats Head Coach Larry Davis, couple talented underclassmen in freshman Gary Clark and sophomore Troy Caupin.   Coach, do you want to open with a statement about this dogfight tonight? 
COACH DAVIS:   First of all, I'm very proud of these guys in a very, very difficult situation and environment with a lot of things going against them.   They hung in there, they fought, they gave themselves a chance to win, and that's all you can ask as a coach is for your team to give yourself a chance to win.   They didn't give in when they could have, when virtually everything went against them in the last four minutes of play.   But these guys, they fought, they listened, they did everything I asked them to do and they gave themselves a chance to win, and we've got to get past this quickly, we've got a week to recuperate, rest a little bit and get ready to play in the big dance, which is the one that matters the most.
MODERATOR:   Thank you.   Questions from the floor?

Q.   Coach, are you positive that you've done enough now to get off the bubble?   That you're in the tournament and can you make your case?
COACH DAVIS:   Everybody has us as an 8 seed.   I don't see us getting knocked out being an 8 seed.   If we were a 10 or 11, yeah, but, no, we've got six top 50 wins and eight top 100 wins.   There's two teams in our conference who are still playing tomorrow that don't have that.   We're undefeated against the top of our league.   Yeah, we're in.   I would say I sure think we're in, put it that way.

Q.   What were you trying to do defensively the last play against Boatright?
COACH DAVIS:   Well, obviously we were going to switch all ball screens and I put Tay on five because I thought they were going to sprint Brimah out, which what I think they were going to do.   They made the adjustment and Tay switched out.   And had I to do it over again I would tell them just doubling, no matter what, make somebody else beat us, but if you do that and he throws it back to Hamilton, we'd bank the 30-footer in with one second on the clock.   Maybe it was fate tonight for them but Tay did a good job switching, he launched one up there and it went in.

Q.   Troy, can you just talk about the defensive battle that these two teams had?   It seemed like it was stop for stop there, especially when it was tied at 45 for almost three minutes.
TROY CAUPIN:   Around that time, you've got a lot gaining on both teams.   It's about getting stops, it's about making that one big rebound, trying to get the ball as best as possible.   Coach told us, hey, let's get a stop, that's the one thing we've got to focus on and I'm sure their coach was saying the same thing.   That's what it came down to in the last three minutes, you said it was 45-45 for a long time and the ball just wasn't dropping in the basket for both sides.

Q.   How do you guys feel now going into the tournament?   You had won five in a row, you played well tonight but didn't win; what's your mindset going forward now?
GARY CLARK:   It's the same mindset.   We had three losses back to back, you know.   It's still try to play Bearcat basketball.   He threw one in tonight, so it's going to sit for a while, you know, it's going to light a fire behind us to go into next week and be really ready for no matter who we play.   They should be worried definitely, definitely.
MODERATOR:   Gentlemen, thank you so much.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT