NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
June 3, 2003
Keith Carney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  I can imagine the celebration.  You had a great moment last night, but it didn't last very long.
 
KEITH CARNEY: It obviously was a must-win for us.  It was a huge win.  But as soon as it's over, we start focusing to Game 5 and getting ourselves ready to have our best game of the series. 
 
Q.  Is it almost like you've played for two teams in the past four games the way it's changed?
 
KEITH CARNEY: The first two games definitely wasn't the type of hockey that we're  -- that we typically play.  For whatever reasons we didn't have our A game, but we were able to get back home, get refocused, and get back to business.  And we were able to hold serve, and now make it a series again.  They were must-wins for us at home.  We were able to take care of that business.  Now, we know we need to have another level here.  It will get tougher as we go. 
 
Q.  Why are they so tough to beat here at home?
 
KEITH CARNEY: They're a great team.  They put a lot of pressure on you.  They get their crowd behind you.  Us in the first two games, they scored the first goal and continued to come at us and keep that momentum on their side.  We couldn't do anything to counter that momentum.  It seemed like we weren't managing the puck well and couldn't slow them down enough.  That's one thing we need to do.  We've gotten better and we've been able to make better decisions with the puck and use our speed more and create more chances with that. 
 
Q.  The emotional roller coaster for you guys, are you able to enjoy what you guys are able to experience here?
 
KEITH CARNEY: It's a lot of fun just to be a part of it and have a chance to win the Stanley Cup.  It's the best.  It's an unbelievable feeling, and of course you have to stay focused and be ready to play each game and totally focus on the job at hand.  It is nice to be part of the media frenzy.  The crowd at home is unbelievable, just wild.  Just the excitement and enthusiasm of everybody, it's fun to be a part of.   
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT