NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: WILD v MIGHTY DUCKS
May 14, 2003
Keith Carney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Obviously you're a game away from the Stanley Cup Finals.  Talk about Giguere, I mean, three straight shutouts. 
 
KEITH CARNEY:  He was unbelievable again tonight.  He made some huge saves for us.  Especially that breakaway we gave to them.  If they scored there, it would be a different period.  It was a total team effort tonight.  Guys worked hard.  We didn't want to give them any chances.  And we used our home ice to our advantage. 
 
Q.  Do you guys understand you are on the brink of some incredible history.
 
KEITH CARNEY: I think we realized it was a great opportunity we had here, and guys just don't want to get too far ahead of themselves.  They want to take it one game at a time, and that's what we're doing.  We talked about just going out and stick to our game plan and playing as hard as we can, and we need to do that for another game here. 
 
Q.  It seems like they're pretty well demoralized.
 
KEITH CARNEY: I don't know about this.  They have been in this situation before, been down in both the first two series, and they managed to keep playing and claw their way back into the series.  We're aware of that, and we just have to keep playing as hard as we can, and use our home ice to our advantage.  The crowd was great to us and a lot of excitement and it helped out. 
 
Q.  Obviously Giggy is playing great.  How much pride defensively knowing you're a part of that and also you're not getting any rebounds?
 
KEITH CARNEY: He's playing great.  Defense is a six-man job on the ice.  Of course he's our back bone, but everybody is making that commitment to play as hard as they can defensively, and not allow second and third opportunities.  You're right, there is not a lot of rebounds.  He's controlling a lot of them.  He's got giving a lot, but when they are there, we're doing a good job of battling pucks and getting them out of the danger zones. 
 
Q.  Keith when Giguere made the save on the breakaway, what kind of a sense did that provide for you guys?
 
KEITH CARNEY: It was a huge save.  Obviously we were up 1-0.  We had the momentum.  We don't want it to swing their way and so it was huge to make that save. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT