AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 29, 2006
Alexandre Sidorenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  You got off to a very, very fast start.  Did that help you? 
 
ALEXANDRE SIDORENKO:  Yeah, it was very, very good on my legs, very good mentality.  I have a good preparation.  I make a good physical preparation before this match.  So it's better because I start very good.  Win three first games easier.  I think he might break.  I think this help me for this match.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about the physical problems you had.  You received quite a lot of treatment, didn't you? 
 
ALEXANDRE SIDORENKO:  Yeah, I am in Australia one months now.  For me, it was very hot.  Because some day was very hot today on these months, and it's accumulation of all of my matches that I play in Australia.  So today I was little nervous physically, mentality.  That's why I will try very fast, you know.  
 
Q.  Why did you take medical time-out?  What was the problem? 
 
ALEXANDRE SIDORENKO:  Uhm, I have no problem, you know.  I can't -- no energy.  So I would like to take little time for recuperate, and I would like that I don't have cramps.  So I just take like -- I just want to take some massage just for cramps, you know, because I was very, very scared by this.  If I have cramps after, it's finished.  So that's why I called the trainer more early.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about what it means to be a junior Grand Slam champion and how big a breakthrough it will be for you. 
 
ALEXANDRE SIDORENKO:  It's very wonderful.  I have no words to explain this.  It's will be like a dream for me also to win a Grand Slam in the Juniors, but it's a Grand Slam.  So for me, it's very nice.  I'm very happy today.  
 
Q.  Is it going to mean a lot in terms of getting attention from sponsors and more money and everything else? 
 
ALEXANDRE SIDORENKO:  Yeah, it should.  If I start to win big tournaments, the sponsors would like to talk with me and this.  But I don't play for sponsors, for money.  I play just for myself and for my -- I enjoy, you know, tennis.  I play just for me, and that's why I think that I play good.  If I start to play with somebody others, it will be not good. 
 
Q.  You received a special exemption into the main draw.  Could you talk about how that process worked.  You were in qualifying initially. 
 
ALEXANDRE SIDORENKO:  Yeah, yeah.  Before to come in Australia, my ranking was like 130 ITF.  Now I think I will be second or first.  So in a month, it's a good progress, huh (smiling)?  If I can progress like this on ATP, it will be nice, huh?  I come every time in Australia.  So, yeah, like I explained, I not play many ITF tournament last year.  I would like concentrate only on the biggest.  So that's why I wasn't first in quallies, but I play in final on doubles last week, previous tournament.  So this give me special exempt here.  
 
Q.  You were 2-5 down in the second.  How did you get your wind to bounce back like that?
 
ALEXANDRE SIDORENKO:  I think on second I was very, very bad, and I -- maybe I just continued to believe that I can win.  I don't let him to beat me in second easier.  So I try to do what I can because I was very bad in second, on middle of second.  And I try so I have little luck.  When I broke him, I make some good shot.  After, I recuperate a little, and it was good, better.  
 
Q.  I didn't see the match, but can you just clarify exactly when you had some treatment today. 
 
ALEXANDRE SIDORENKO:  I asked for because I feel that cramps start on me.  So I would like to stop this.  This why I called the trainer early.  Because if I have cramps, after it will be very hard to play.  So that's why I prefer to ask more early.  
 
Q.  Was that first or second set? 
 
ALEXANDRE SIDORENKO:  Uhm, I feel on beginning on second.  I run very, very, very, many, many rallies.  I won a lot.  So that's why it will be little maybe more tired than my opponent.  
 
Q.  I think he's asking when it happened.  It was 3-2 in the second set, right? 
 
ALEXANDRE SIDORENKO:  Yeah.  I start -- I feel very bad in 1-All in second.  First game I have two breakpoints.  I don't take my chance.  He play good after I keep -- I try to keep my serve.  And on his service game, I just trying to some shots, you know, just trying to hit and we'll see, you know, because I feel very -- I start to feel very, very bad, you know, on beginning second.  And after, I run a little much, very, very much.  On my service game, I tried to defend it.  And it's after I was very -- I was very, very tired.  That's why it was for 3-2, 3-2 or 4-2, it was very big game.  I was very hurt by this game.  That's why after on 4-2, it was hot for me on my head and I play not very good game for 4-2, 5-2. 
 
Q.  Do you just have your coach with you here?
 
ALEXANDRE SIDORENKO:  Yeah, my coach helped me also.  But, you know, I have always good experience, so I can take my decisions and should, and it's better than if he can help me.  But on the court I am alone and I have to take my decisions. 
 
Q.  Traveling with you, you've just got your coach.  Have you had a chance to speak to anybody from home, your mom or your dad or your friends?
 
ALEXANDRE SIDORENKO:  Yeah, sure, my coach is my father so (smiling).  
 
Q.  What's your father's name?
 
ALEXANDRE SIDORENKO:  Valery.  Sure, it's better for me to travel with my father because he know me better than every coaches.  I'm usually -- usually I travel with him, so I have good results.  Try to continue like this way.  
 
Q.  How old are you now?
 
ALEXANDRE SIDORENKO:  17. 
 
Q.  And can you just tell us a little bit about how you started in tennis. 
 
ALEXANDRE SIDORENKO:  I started at eight, when I was eight years old.  First I start handball at four.  And after I try tennis because it was a club near handball club, so I go there for trying play like two times by week.  And after I like it, and I stop the handball and continue tennis.  
 
Q.  Where do you live in France? 
 
ALEXANDRE SIDORENKO:  Paris.  
 
Q.  You decided what you're going to call your kangaroo yet? 
 
ALEXANDRE SIDORENKO:  Yeah, sure, he will be now my best friend (smiling). 
 
Q.  Going to buy him a seat on the plane?
 
ALEXANDRE SIDORENKO:  Yeah, yeah.  I think so.  Maybe it's will be my talisman now, kangaroo.  It was also my objective to see some kangaroos in Australia.  I can't miss that, huh, in this country. 
 
Q.  Lucky you went to the zoo. 
 
ALEXANDRE SIDORENKO:  Yeah, yeah, yeah.  I was there three days ago.  So I pass a very good time there.  
 
Q.  When did you find out you had an exemption into the junior tournament? 
 
ALEXANDRE SIDORENKO:  Before my semifinals on doubles on previous tournament.  The referee say me, if you want special, you have a special exempt.  If you lose, you play quallies.  And the semifinal, I won 7-6 in the third set (smiling).  So you can imagine how I be nervous, huh?  
 
Q.  How will you celebrate? 
 
ALEXANDRE SIDORENKO:  I don't know.  I make put my hands (inaudible).  I would like just to be don't change, you know.  Sure, I win good tournament.  Not to take big head and change my usually things.  So I continue to make my preparation because I am in Juniors.  But it's not finished.  I have to progress on my game and try to win maybe in Seniors in some years.  We'll see.  
 

End of FastScripts .

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT