PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY BANCO POPULAR
March 11, 2010
Steve Carman
Mark Dusbabek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   NELSON SILVERIO: Gentlemen, thanks for stopping by for a couple minutes here. Can you guys just kind of explain the situation we're in right now? I believe we're in suspension with resumption at 7:15 tomorrow.  
 MARK DUSBABEK: Right now we'll resume play tomorrow at 7:15 for the first round. The rain has obviously gotten to a point where the course has become unplayable, and even if it stopped right now, the course would not be ready in time to get the course ready to play today. So we've had to suspend the round for the rest of the day.   
 NELSON SILVERIO: Questions?   
  
  Q. Plan going forward?  
 STEVE CARMAN: The plan going forward is right now hopefully we'll play Round 1 on Friday. Play Round 2 at its originally scheduled starting time, just a day later, and play 36 holes on Sunday.   
 That will be a tight situation because we only have about 11 and a half or 12 hours of daylight, so our regulations allow us to cut to the number nearest 60, play 36 holes out in on one day.   
  
  Q. Is there any chance you may be playing the final round on Monday?  
 STEVE CARMAN: Well, with the schedule that we have, we still have a little flexibility, and we don't have to actually start at 7:15 to be able to finish the second round by the end of the day Saturday.   
 If that doesn't happen, that would prevent us from playing 72 holes by the end of the day Sunday, and in that situation, then we would play on Monday.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 STEVE CARMAN: No. That's what we call in the mix. That's the scenario that would allow us to finish 72 holes by the end of the day on Sunday. If we go to Monday, then 60 is out of the mix.   
  
  Q. If you go to 60, then 70 and ties would not play?   
 STEVE CARMAN: Yes. Everybody, 70 and ties would be paid, but only 60, the number near 60 would actually play the third and fourth rounds.  
  
  Q. Is that money that's unofficial?  
 STEVE CARMAN: No. If you make 70 and ties, it's official money.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 STEVE CARMAN: As soon as it stops raining, they'll immediately start getting on the golf course and repairing bunkers and squeegeeing where there's puddles and pumping bunkers or whatever has to be done, but they'll start right away.  
  
  Q. Doesn't matter what time?  
 STEVE CARMAN: And they were here this morning 3 or 4:00 in the morning trying to get the golf course ready under normal conditions, so yeah.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 STEVE CARMAN: We'll play preferred lie starting the round and that will continue.   
 At this point the stroke that we'll play today for the first two or three groups on each side count and we will continue from that point going forward.   
  
  Q. What's the forecast say?  
 STEVE CARMAN: The meteorologist says we have like a 30 percent chance of showers tomorrow. It's just depending on what happens to this frontal boundary that seems to have stalled right on top of us. If the high-pressure system builds in and moves that away, he feels pretty good that we'll have pretty decent weather.   
 NELSON SILVERIO: All right, gentlemen. Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT