WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 1ST ROUND POOL B
March 9, 2017
Travis Blackley
Luke Hughes
Trent D'Antonio
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








AUSTRALIA 11, China 0
Q. All of you, you just played against team China, what's in your mind right now?
TRENT D'ANTONIO: Yeah, obviously that was the first time for most of us.  I don't think we ever played China before.  I didn't know what to expect.  I don't think any of us did.  They came out swinging.  They definitely had some tools out there and played us hard.
I think we just did our best to play our game and do what we could do to get through this game and look forward to tomorrow.
LUKE HUGHES: It was a big game for us tonight.  We knew we had to go out there and get a win for ourselves to continue to the second round and give us an opportunity against Cuba tomorrow.  The rest is in our hands.  We're looking forward to the challenge and we're excited, and we know what we need to do moving forward and we're looking forward to the challenge.
TRAVIS BLACKLEY: Definitely today was a big game for us as a country and as a team.  I know personally, myself, once we got the win, my mind went straight to tomorrow, going over our plan of attack for what we have with Cuba tomorrow.
Q. You have a do-or-die game against Cuba for tomorrow.  What is your game plan for tomorrow?
LUKE HUGHES: You know, okay, I'll say it again, we need to win.  For us, that's what we're all about.  We didn't come here to just make up the numbers.  I said that before.  We're coming here to compete.  We're coming to win.  We're coming to move through the second round and go up against the Japanese again and hopefully move through to the semifinals.  That's what our goal was, to put ourselves in a position to come up against Cuba and take it to them tomorrow.
TRENT D'ANTONIO: It's a one-game shootout, so it's baseball; anything can happen.  I think we put ourselves in the best position that we can, and we're going to be ready to fire as soon as tomorrow comes around.
TRAVIS BLACKLEY: Me personally, I will be enjoying it from the sideline and watching these guys battle it out.  I'll be doing what I can to keep an eye on them myself in case I ever have to pitch against them in the future.  Pretty much I'll be just backing my teammates and hopefully watching us get through the next round.
Q. I have a question for Travis.  It looks like a sudden pitching change during the innings.  What was it that Jon Deeble told you on the mound?
TRAVIS BLACKLEY: Yeah, obviously I was a little surprised to see him come out.  I didn't even have it going through my mind about the possibility of pitching in the next round, the first game.  I didn't know -- I wasn't even thinking about that.  So I was a little shocked.
But he came out and he said:  Listen, if you throw one more pitch, you're not able to throw for us in the first game next round.  So obviously it would be nice to get that last out in the fifth inning, but it wasn't to be.  Hopefully that win will come in the next round.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT