LPGA NW ARKANSAS CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JOHN Q. HAMMONS
September 9, 2007
Jin Young Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Jin Young, thanks for coming in and joining us.  Three days, 18 holes of golf, and you finished with a 5-under to finish real high on that leaderboard.  Take us through the weekend.  What has it been like to come out here three days and play a few holes of golf each day? 
 JIN YOUNG PAK:  It was first time ever in my life.  It was kind of -- a few things like if I warm up for a half hour, play three holes, or next hole, like every day.  I was here at 6 o'clock, stay till 8:30 and then go back to hotel.  Good thing is I have a lot of break time with friends, so it was okay.  It was a good experience. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Can you walk us through your scorecard starting with your first birdie on hole 12, your third hole of the round? 
 JIN YOUNG PAK:  I have 8-iron, four feet. 
 14, 8-iron to 12 feet. 
 16 was a 9-iron two feet. 
 15 was a bogey, I had 6-iron, it was really jump shot, like 30 yards and I got a bogey, 2-putt. 
 17, I hit 4-iron and maybe one foot. 
 3, I hit 7-iron it was 15 feet and made birdie. 
 No. 5, I had 9-iron and maybe eight feet. 
 No. 7, I played pitching wedge, 15 feet and made it. 
 Bogeyed No. 8.  I had 6-iron and it was on the edge but I hit a chip shot and 2-putt.  Chip shot was pretty short, maybe nine yards. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  How close did you get it? 
 JIN YOUNG PAK:  Five feet. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  And then 2-putt? 
 JIN YOUNG PAK:  Yeah. 

 Q.  When you got to 6-under par on the seventh hole, were you thinking that you had a chance? 
 JIN YOUNG PAK:  Actually, it was really exciting because the last two holes, I feel like I have to make it; I have to make a birdie again. 
 No. 8 was kind of hard, like tee shot had to be straight.  But my driver was really good, I hit in the fairway.  I hit 6-iron.  I thought it was okay, but a little short of the green. 
 I was a little nervous about that shot and kind of hit it hard.  I was like, okay, now I need to practice. 
 Then the next hole, I was a little bit disappointed about the last hole, but it was a really great par because I missed -- my tee shot missed in the rough and it was thick because of the rain.  I hit 7-iron there but it was short on the green, like 35- or 40-yard chip shot, but I made par. 
 It was a good finish.  It was good, good finish; I liked it. 

 Q.  How disappointing was it to not be able to complete the full tournament or another round being so close to the top? 
 JIN YOUNG PAK:  Actually I'm disappointed about that.  I've played like six tournaments this year because I had injury, so I've played as much as I can.  I played really good this tournament, but you know, so I'm disappointed about that.  But I have the next tournament. 

 Q.  Could you take a medical exemption? 
 JIN YOUNG PAK:  For Q-School, I still need to play tournaments, so that's why I didn't do medical, I just keep playing, and I like to play. 

 Q.  You're in the Top-10, with Se Ri Pak, is there any relation? 
 JIN YOUNG PAK:  Same last name.  A lot of people ask a lot of times.  We're not related.  We're just good friends.  Just same last name. 

 Q.  Do you ever let people think that you're Se Ri Pak and sign her autograph? 
 JIN YOUNG PAK:  No, never.  (Laughing) 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  They actually did have a chance to play together during Saturday's round at the Jamie Farr Corning Classic in July. 

 Q.  Once you saw today, were you surprised that the tournament organizers went ahead and called off the rest of the tournament? 
 JIN YOUNG PAK:  Today was really good.  I feel like, okay, I can play 36 holes today.  It's like sunny out there.  But a lot of water, like still a lot of water.  It's wet on the fairway.  But we can replace, drop.  But it's okay, it's not a big deal. 

 Q.  Do you remember how many holes you played the first day? 
 JIN YOUNG PAK:  Three holes, 10 through 12.  The next day, 13 through No. 6 on the green.  And then today, I played four holes. 

 Q.  When they suspended play yesterday, you didn't have an opportunity to putt out, did you, on No. 6? 
 JIN YOUNG PAK:  That time I prepare for my putting.  The rain was starting so hard, so maybe -- 

 Q.  But could you have putted out if you wanted to at that point? 
 JIN YOUNG PAK:  I don't think so.  I'm just waiting for -- 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Electrical weather had moved into the area. 
 Thanks and congratulations on where you finished. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT