LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
August 31, 2007
Jin Young Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Jin Young Pak, thank you for joining us today.  You're the leader in the clubhouse, 6-under through 36 holes.  Can you talk about your round a little bit?   
 JIN YOUNG PAK:  I had a great round today.  I think I hit 17 greens today.  My shot was not great, play good, but I missed a couple putts today.  But it was good because it was not windy in the morning and it was good conditions.  So that's why I played good.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Can we go over your scorecard?  You had six birdies and one bogey.  Your first birdie was on hole 3.   
 JIN YOUNG PAK:  Yeah, hole 3, I hit driver to the bunker, right bunker and I hit 6-iron to three feet and I made birdie.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Birdie on 7, the par 4.   
 JIN YOUNG PAK:  Yeah, I hit driver and 9-iron to eight feet and I make birdie.   
 8, 9-iron to eight feet again.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Your only bogey on hole 10, what happened there?   
 JIN YOUNG PAK:  I hit a really good driver.  I had a 9-iron in and I got on the green and I missed a one-foot putt.  I had a 3-putt there.   
 The next hole I make birdie.  I hit 8-iron to nine feet and I made birdie.   
 13, I had 3-iron, and then 58-degree wedge to seven feet and made birdie.   
 16, that was a short par 5.  So I hit driver good and I hit 6-iron and it's over the green.  So I used 58 to one feet.   
  
  Q.  The par 5s today, I can't remember how many you birdied today -- two or three of the par 5s?   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Two.   
  
  Q.  Okay.  I'm sorry.  Today you said there wasn't much wind this morning.  Did that make the par 5s more, you know, reachable, as far as maybe having a chance to get there in two or compared to the way they were yesterday?   
 JIN YOUNG PAK:  I think it was not that different, but yesterday was downwind in the par 5 and today it was not.   
  
  Q.  How much better were the conditions today wind-wise than yesterday?   
 JIN YOUNG PAK:  Yesterday was windy because I played in the afternoon.  The wind, it was changed.  So I had a little confusion with distance because I played a practice round here, but some holes was into the wind, and then yesterday was downwind.  It was a little hard.   
 Today, I think it was calm.   
  
  Q.  Does that make it easier?   
 JIN YOUNG PAK:  Yeah, it's much easier like for clubs and distance and direction, much better than yesterday.   
  
  Q.  Were the greens -- again, playing in the morning, the greens are always smoother and not spiked up.  Are the greens -- hitting into the greens, were they holding real well?  In other words, were they soft when you shot in?  Would the ball stop pretty well?   
 JIN YOUNG PAK:  I think like yesterday was softer, too, and today was soft.  Yesterday before I played, a lot of players like play faster than me because my tee time was 1:40, so a lot of spikes.  Even if I hit -- if I stroke it good, it's not going in.   
 Today was better but still greens a little slow.  So, it's good, better.   
  
  Q.  Do American reporters, media, do they ask you a lot if you're related to Se Ri?  Do they ask you that a lot?   
 JIN YOUNG PAK:  Media, I don't know, people, galleries, a lot of times.  Because I played pretty good in the Jamie Farr that time that I played with Se Ri Pak, so a lot of media ask me about Se Ri Pak.  But it's no relationship, just same last name and friends.   
  
  Q.  Do you know Se Ri very well at all?  Have you ever played with her?   
 JIN YOUNG PAK:  I played with her in Jamie Farr.   
  
  Q.  Oh, in the same group?   
 JIN YOUNG PAK:  Yeah, final group, last group.  She's very famous in Korea, so of course I know her when I was in Korea.  So to play with her it's exciting to me, and now she's my good friend.   
  
  Q.  How does this position at the halfway point compare to where you were earlier (in tournaments) this year?  You're in a better spot heading into the weekend on the leaderboard.   
 JIN YOUNG PAK:  I was second in Jamie Farr after the second round but I'm now first place?  Yeah, maybe that's my best play this year, because I didn't play in five or six tournaments.  So it's still good.   
  
  Q.  Of the courses are you've played in year on the Tour, does this course remind you of any other courses that you've played this year, just the layout or the way the holes are or anything?  Does it remind you of any other place?   
 JIN YOUNG PAK:  Maybe, but as I told you, I didn't play much, so I don't know many courses.  I think it's not similar.   
  
  Q.  Do you play in Arkansas next week?   
 JIN YOUNG PAK:  Yeah, I will try.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Thanks and congratulations on a great round.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT