NCAA WOMEN'S COLLEGE WORLD SERIES
May 30, 2015
Ally Carda
Kelly Inouye-Perez
Maddy Jelenicki
Gabrielle Maurice
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Auburn 11 - UCLA 10  
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by UCLA head coach Kelly Inouye-Perez and student-athlete Gabrielle Maurice, student-athlete Maddy Jelenicki, student-athlete Ally Carda.   COACH INOUYE-PEREZ: I'd like to congratulate Auburn on a well-played game.  It was a great battle going back and forth, and that's what you would expect here at the College World Series.  For my team, I'm walking away very proud of a year that was defined by great athletes, versatile selfless athletes that played and truly had each other's backs and never stopped fighting.  That's something that you hope that you can create in a program is to have a culture that is so bought into whatever it takes to win that they will have a lasting memory, this group together. We're led by the senior class.  Wouldn't be here without them, and the program will definitely miss them.  But I commend, as I just finished talking with my team about that senior class, we wouldn't be here.  That mission started a while ago. It's a big burden to take that on.  I'm super proud of how they did it.  We ended too soon, but I promise you that the UCLA softball program is back and we will be back next year.  That mission starts immediately.   THE MODERATOR: Questions.   Q.  Ally, 205 pitches for you, walk in the winning run, just how tough was just that moment for you seeing the winning run go across the plate?  ALLY CARDA: It's tough.  Not only is the season lost, but I was more mad that I didn't do it for everyone else.  So I was mad at myself for not being able to come up with better pitches.  Walking people is not the way to do it in those kind of innings. So more so just mad at myself I didn't get it done for my team.   Q.  Can you talk about the game itself, the highs and lows, and have you ever been in a game like this where there was so much drama just throughout the game?  MADDY JELENICKI: There was a lot of ups and downs throughout the game.  And I think what kept us is, more than wanting to win the game, just wanting to have another game to play with this group of girls.  It was probably one of the tightest group of people I've been on a team with. And when you're down, you just want to get up for the next person or keep going for Ally (Carda) and just get it going for her because she was out there working the whole game.   GABRIELLE MAURICE: You know, I'm happy for our team and our seniors.  It's really a group of great girls, and I can't wait to come back next year.  I think it just makes us hungrier.   ALLY CARDA: I'm very proud of this team and I think it was a great fight all the way through the end.  No, to answer your question, I haven't been in a game like that before, I don't think, at least with that big of a crowd and that intense of moments. So we did lose, but it was fun.  It was a great experience for the younger ones.  So next year they can get back after it.   Q.  Coach, if you can, talk back about when, in your eyes, did this particular team that you saw a change was coming to get to this point?  COACH INOUYE-PEREZ: There were several.  I think every season has some defining moments, and one thing they've done, they've been very resilient.  They respond to adversity.  And that's something that I think is going to allow them to be successful beyond the softball field.  But softball doesn't define them. We've had moments throughout the entire year, from fall to preseason, to Pac-12.  Even here.  And the one thing that they have a defining characteristic trait is they never quit.  They don't stop fighting.  That is something that will allow them to be successful beyond.  I'm super proud of that.  I'm very proud of that. Specifically, I mean, I have it all written down in my coaching notebook if you want me to get dates, but there's some specific moments where they've made a decision and they'll have that for the rest of their lives, definitely.   THE MODERATOR: Thank you.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT