ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
November 6, 2020
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. WAWRINKA/A. Rublev
1-6, 6-4, 6-3
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. Another late night in Paris.  How did you regroup after that first set and can you attribute anything specifically to your victory tonight?
STAN WAWRINKA:   I think of course at the beginning he was playing faster than me, was playing better than me.  It was tough for me to really find any solution when he's playing that well.
I still, I was still believing that I could change something in my game and play a little bit better.  I start to really -- I didn't start great the match, and he took the confidence from me also.
I think for me it was important to really focus on my serve.  I start to serve better, to mix more, to get more free points, to start to push him a little bit more, put him on defense a little bit.  That's when I knew I will have some occasion to break him.
But yeah, I'm really happy with the victory.
Q. Just in terms of recovery now before the next match, how important is it to get some real good recovery time, to get some sort of sleep, to get nutrition, to get yourself back into really sort of top-notch sort of shape?  A performance like that does wear down the body and does take an awful lot of your resources out of you.
STAN WAWRINKA:   Yeah, it does.  Especially at my age it's really important.  I didn't play too many matches last few months, so I'm for sure it's going to be important to recover well for tomorrow night.
It's again another three-set matches with a lot of tension.  Finishing really late, it is going to be late in bed but I'll try to get more sleep tomorrow and be ready for the quarterfinal.
Q. I was just wondering if you could give us any thoughts on Alexander Zverev who you will play next.
STAN WAWRINKA:   Yeah, it's going to be a tough one, for sure.  I lost to him in Australian Open.  Lost a few times to him already in the past.
He's a tough player for me to play, so it's going to be interesting.  I watched him a little bit tonight.  He played also a long match.
Yeah, hopefully I can deliver a great match tomorrow night.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT