ROGERS CUP
July 28, 2016
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. WAWRINKA/J. Sock
7-6, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Do you miss being called Stanislas?
STAN WAWRINKA: (Smiling.)  Not really.  Since I'm young everybody call me Stan.
Q. Really?
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah.
Q. When you started in tennis it was always Stanislas.
STAN WAWRINKA: But everybody was still calling me Stan.  (Smiling.)
Q. Was it a good day to get a suntan today?
STAN WAWRINKA: It was humid, for sure.  But was great and good match so far.  Still have the doubles later, but I'm really happy with the match today.  It's always still tough condition here, quite fast.
First time I was playing Jack.  Not easy to find the right play, but I'm happy with the way I played in general and the win.
Q. What made you decide to play doubles here?  Was it just lack of preparation?
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah.  I normally enjoy to play doubles.  I just don't play too much, because it's always difficult to find the right schedule, not to overplay and not to get injury.
The fact that I didn't play for four weeks after Wimbledon, I had good preparation.  For me I wanted to play as much points as possible.  You know, you can practice a lot, but nothing can beat to play points with the stress, with the nerves.
And when Grigor asked me with Dani, it was, Okay, let's play.  I think we played well together.  Always enjoy when I play with someone I like to have fun.
Q. How different was it out there, the conditions, versus the night match that you had in your opener?  Is it tough having that day off compared to guys -- you know, Jack had played two matches back to back before today.
STAN WAWRINKA: It's faster during the day.  Bounce a little bit higher, also.  Tougher to control.
But for me I was okay.  I had good practice yesterday.  I felt good in general today, and to win in two sets was great result.
Q. You're the No. 2 seed here.  It's a pretty big tournament.  Doesn't happen that often.  Is it something you're aware of?  Does it make any difference for you?
STAN WAWRINKA: For me, it doesn't change much to be No. 2 seed, 3 seed, or 4 seed.  That's more or less where I have been the past two years now.  At the end of the day, you need to beat those tough players.
Was tough match today.  Tomorrow I'm playing against Anderson who I lost many times against him.  I lost two years ago when I play him here.  It's going to be interesting match to play again against him.  It's always been difficult to beat him, but hopefully I can do that tomorrow.
Q. Kevin Anderson, a few weeks ago, talked about receiving sort of death threats via social media.  I know you have a very active presence on social media.  I wondered what your experience has been.  Is it kind of fair to say it's a new reality for players, considering sort of the era we are in when fans can interact very easily with players?
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, for me I use social media in a positive way, for the fans, for the media, for the people who's happy to receive some different kind of message from me, some different kind of picture.
I read some message, but most of the time I read the positive one from the fan who is happy to support me.  That's when I go on the social media.  Not to see all the negative side.
Q. I don't know all the rules for the Olympics, but now that Roger is not going and you're a top-10 player, are you allowed to still be in the doubles?  Can you choose somebody from Switzerland to play with?  Do you know what the status is in the men's?
STAN WAWRINKA: I, as you, I have to see and talk.  I don't know the exact role.
But, for me, even before wasn't 100% sure that I was playing with Roger the doubles.  We put us on the list just to have the choice and wait the last minute.  I don't think I'm going to try to play doubles anyway.
Q. And mixed?  Are you considering mixed doubles at all?
STAN WAWRINKA: I don't think so.  I don't think so.  I think I want to focus really on the singles.  Again, as I say, I'm not as young anymore.  It's a tough summer, also.  It's a tough schedule to do.
But I really want to go there and try to do everything possible for the singles.
Q. We talk about the big server.  Kevin Anderson obviously has a big serve, but what in particular is tough about playing against those big guys aside from the big serve?  Does it feel like there is more pressure and points when you get into rallies on their serves?
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah.  That's the difficult part, to still be relaxed and confident when you get to the rally and when you have some little chance to break them.
When you play some player like Karlovic or even Isner, you know you're not going to have a lot of chance to break them.  So you need to try to take them, and most of the time they make you nervous with that.  They make you hesitate with the shots you want to play.  That's why it's so tough to play them.
Q. I probably didn't ask it too well earlier.  I guess what I was getting at with the social media stuff, does security become that much more important for a player in today's day and age when there is so much access to players?
STAN WAWRINKA: In which way security?
Q. In the sense that players are really able to access you on the court, off the court, on social media?  I'm just trying to get a sense for how important security is for you.
STAN WAWRINKA: The security in general, I don't think, has nothing to do with social media, anyway, because the player can choose if he wants to be on social media or not.
I think for sure there is more access to everybody.  Now, with everything, you can take a picture any time of the day of who you want and put it on Internet, but again, I can choose if I want to be on social media or not.  That's all I care.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT