WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2016
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. How are you feeling going into the tournament?
STAN WAWRINKA: I feel quite good. Had a lot of time on the grass. Quite happy with the way I'm playing so far. 
I think I'm ready for the tournament. So excited to start again one more Wimbledon. 

Q. How do you feel about potentially you can face Juan Martin del Potro second round? What are your thoughts about him returning here?
STAN WAWRINKA: I think it's great he's back on the tour, that's for sure. He's amazing player. He won a Grand Slam few years ago. He had a lot of injuries. So I think it's really good for him and for the tennis that he's back on the tour. 
He's going to be, for sure, dangerous. He played a great tournament in Stuttgart on grass. If he's fit, he's a tough player to beat, that's for sure. That's it. 

Q. You hired Richard Krajicek ahead of the grass court season. Can you talk about the reasons why you did it. Obviously you have Magnus, a lot of success with him. What was the reason to do that?
STAN WAWRINKA: First, it's an idea who came from Magnus basically. We were talking about that in French Open already, about not to do it now, but maybe in the future. 
Then we decide that maybe the grass was a good time to do it also, not only because of the surface, but because I'm here in London for three, four weeks in the same place. You know you have time to practice. You know you can work on many things. The things we wanted to work on with Magnus was the thing that we thought that Richard can help a little bit. 
I think it's been going well so far. Richard have a lot of experience from the player. He won here. He used to be amazing tennis player, really aggressive on the court, serve and volley a lot. 
For sure it makes sense for everybody to do it now. So far it's been good. We have a lot of time on the court with Magnus with him, a lot of talk also. 
And I know also what's important for Magnus and me, it's not only saying, Okay, we're going to work for the grass, it's for my game in general. We don't think about, Okay, it's just for Wimbledon. It's just trying to keep improving my game in general. 

Q. Can you tell me what he's helping you work on specifically?
STAN WAWRINKA: Few things in my game that we wanted to work it. But that's few things that we keep for ourselves also. 
We've been talking a lot. He brings his experience, a few things in the technique side. For me, it's really interesting to have someone like Richard.

Q. What experience has he passed on to you about Wimbledon, about getting to a final and winning it?
STAN WAWRINKA: For sure he had amazing memories here, winning here, that's for sure. But also we had quite a lot of talk the way you can play on grass, many little things, the tactic, what's good to do on grass, how you need to be ready mentally and always tough. 
Again, now we need to focus on the first one. 

Q. Has he raised your expectations of how far you can go in the tournament now?
STAN WAWRINKA: No, you know, that's not something that change because one person coming in the team for three weeks. I think the last few years, I start to play my best tennis on grass. I know I can play my best game. Hopefully I can do something big this year. 

Q. A lot of players talk about Wimbledon is their favorite tournament. What precisely do you love about being here?
STAN WAWRINKA: The tournament in general. There is many, many things that we enjoy here. For sure, the grass season, it's only four weeks. If you like it, you really enjoy it. 
I like the fact that also I'm staying in the house next to it. You feeling a little bit at home. The tournament is always special to play for any player, doesn't matter if it's your tournament during the year. That's something really special to play. 

Q. Do you feel like the courts might change the longer the tournament goes on? Do you think that might help you if you get through the first week? 
STAN WAWRINKA: For sure the court is changing during the two weeks, that's for sure. But I think for me, I really like the condition from the first day. I really enjoy to play on grass. 
For sure we all know that if I can win few matches, I start to play better and better because I take the confidence from that. I don't think it's only because the grass is changing, but it's more about the confidence from winning matches. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT