WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2016
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. del POTRO/S. Wawrinka
  3‑6, 6‑3, 7‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. When do you feel it started to get away from you?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, I think in the second set when I start to play a little bit between. My service game, I got broken. I basically give him the game with missing a few easy shot, making double‑fault. Yeah, then wasn't easy. He was in front with a break. He was always serving big, serving good.   
I start to play a little bit too much between, not playing completely free, not playing aggressive enough. Didn't find a way to come back in the match.   
   
 Q. What are your thoughts about Juan Martin del Potro's coming back from his injuries and where he is in his game right now?  
STAN WAWRINKA: As we all say, it's great for the tennis to see him back. He's a great guy, a really good player, big champion.   
You can see already he played few matches this year. He beat some good guys. Today he was playing really good. I think he was serving really well. His forehand is there. His backhand, he's still struggling a little bit because he cannot play free completely with what he want, so he's slicing a lot. But on the slow grass, it's tough to do something.   
For sure he's playing really good.   
   
 Q. What were your biggest questions about his game before today, and what were the answers to those questions?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I think I was focused on my game. I knew what I wanted to do. I've tried. I start really well. I was playing really well from the beginning, playing aggressive, serving well, staying with him.   
As I say, I start to play a little bit between. When I wanted to play aggressive, I was still hesitating a little bit. I was a little bit slow to go to the net. When I wanted to put the ball in, I wasn't clear with what I was doing.   
Just to be between, to give him so much time to do what he want. I start to do mistake. I start to think a little bit too much what to do. That's make the whole difference.   
   
 Q. You said you started to think a little bit too much. What were those thoughts?  
STAN WAWRINKA: About my game, you know. Especially on grass, second round, you still not completely free with your game. I'm still looking a little bit on my game. When you start to do one, two mistake, easy forehand, easy attack, you start to then think what to do. Maybe it was the wrong shot. Maybe it was the right shot.   
When you think too much on grass, you start to do mistake and not playing well enough.   
   
 Q. You had the privilege of playing on Centre Court as fourth seed. I wonder what you thought about Angelique Kerber, also fourth seed, relegated to Court 12 today. Similarly Sabine Lisicki was on Court 16. Do you think there's sexism in court scheduling?  
STAN WAWRINKA: That's a pretty strange question. If you look the schedule, I think yesterday or two days ago, was four matches women on Centre, and one guy or two. I think they just trying what they can do with the schedule. They cannot put five or six match on Centre.   
I think you need to look every day. Today was one girl match, two men's match. Two days ago was three or four girl's match and one men's match. I don't think there is anything.   
   
 Q. As a fourth seed, would you be disappointed not to be on Court 1 or Centre Court?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Where did I play today?   
   
 Q. Centre Court.   
STAN WAWRINKA: They didn't put me away. They put me on Centre. I cannot answer that question.   
   
 Q. You said you were thinking too much on court. Did you think before the game or prepare too much before the game? Did you frighten yourself?  
STAN WAWRINKA: No. But as I say, I start really well. I was quite clear with what I wanted to do.   
On grass, you know that one or two point change completely the match. If you start to hesitate with your game, if you start to not go completely with your plan, then it's tough to play your best tennis.   
That's what happened today. I start to make few mistake that didn't help me at all. He was also putting a lot of pressure with his serve, with his forehand.   
At the end it's a tough loss, but he also deserve it because he went for it.   
   
 Q. How tough is it playing him and how far do you think he can go at this tournament?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Today was for sure tough to play him. He played really well. I had some chance. I could have won the match. I didn't took my chance because he put a lot of pressure. He was serving big, doing good job with his forehand. Couldn't really do what I wanted when he was slicing his backhand.   
Again, he's coming back. I don't know how he's going to feel after playing almost three hours or two and a half hours a high level on Centre, really physical, mentally also. You have to see how he is going to recover from that. I think he has to play tomorrow also again.   
When you don't play those big matches for few years, it's tough to play back‑to‑back after that. So I hope he can recover and be ready for the next one.   
   
 Q. He's got some great weapons, as you said. Do you feel like you could have exploited his backhand a bit more?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I think I could have play better, for sure. I think I should have play better. I start to also serving better. My serve was a little bit up and down during the match.   
But again, the match is over. I have time to talk with my coach after or tomorrow or whenever. I just need to look what I can take from the match and think about the rest of the season because I cannot change anything now.   
   
 Q. The locker room is a very competitive place. Is there a feeling that the guys are happy to see del Potro back and being competitive again?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Again, as I think everybody said already, for sure we all happy that he's back. He's a great guy off the court. He's amazing player on the court. He's big champion. He was so unlucky with all the injury he had for many years.   
We just all hope that he can be free injury now and play well this year and the next year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT