ROLAND GARROS
June 3, 2016
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. MURRAY/S. Wawrinka
6-4, 6-2, 4-6, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.
Q. What about your feelings then?  I have the feeling it was difficult for you to move on the court compared to what you did before during the first two weeks.  Would you say the same or not?
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, no.  I think that Andy played really so well today.  He was the strongest on the court.  It's as simple as that.  He knew what to do against me.  When you play this player at such a level, well, you know what?
If I start hesitating with my game and what I intend to do, this is something that you can see more easily compared to other players; therefore, I started hesitating and didn't exactly know which choices to make.
Afterwards you might have the thought that I was not moving well on the court.  All in all, even though I have a few things I would reproach myself with, things I wanted to do differently, et cetera.
Well, if I were to use too many "ifs," well, with an "if" you can change a game, as we say.  He was so solid in what he was doing and he knew how to be very aggressive from the very first shots to put pressure on me when I thought I had opportunities to seize, and voila.  He was stronger as I was today.  It's as simple as that.
Q. You usually say that compared to other players what's important for you is the strength you put in your racquet.  Now, you like this surface very much, but how come he dictated the rallies and the game more than you?
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, you know, he's No. 2 in the world.  He reached the finals in Madrid.  This is a surface I like, but he too, you know.  When we play on a surface that's slow or quick it doesn't really matter very much.  It's the same for both of us.  It's the one who adapts, really.  He served better than I did today.
As I said before, he took all the opportunities I thought I could seize.  He didn't give me free points except for the first serve game when I had a break point and maybe he made one or two mistakes.  Then 5-4 in the third set when he had two forehand shots.
But otherwise, you know, the Love-15, et cetera, these little points that can make a big difference, he was stronger during these points.  This is it.
Of course I'm disappointed.  I could play better.  I could have tried to turn the match around, but I couldn't find the solutions today.  I didn't know how to increase my level of game to fight back.
Q. You were saying, and he said, that he had played well on clay.  Do you have the impression as well that he's never played that strongly on clay?  And what would you say about these two weeks, about you?
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, I think I have never played against him as strong as he was playing today.  That's true.
As I said before, he was strong everywhere.  I think he was stronger in a number of things today.  That is, there was pressure on him, and then he decided to go for the points more than usual.
Because, you know, usually when he wants to be more aggressive he forces himself to do this.  This time it was simple.  He was hitting forehand shots immediately and I had to be defending.  It paid off.  Even though you can always try and turn the match around, there were two or three moments when perhaps I could have changed things and put more pressure on him.
But, you know, the fact that he was leading, when you look at the score, this helped him a lot.  And also, now, at present, you know, what can I say about these two weeks?  I'm disappointed, of course, because I have lost the semifinals.  You know, there is only two matches to reach the end if it's a Grand Slam.  I know that.
But then, you know, I can always try and say, Okay, I have to take a little distance.  Okay, it's an excellent tournament.  It's a semifinal; I lost to Murray; he's stronger than I am; he's No. 2 in the world.  It's all positive.
But of course I'm not here to lose a match, so I'm disappointed as we speak.
Q. You have talked about two or three things that you could reproach yourself with.  What are these things?  Could you tell us, more or less?
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, it's details in the game.  It's like being tougher today, stronger.  These points, there's nothing more concrete, I'd like to say to you today.  But there are two, three things I was not good enough at, not at the level, et cetera, and therefore he did what he had to do to defeat me.
Q. When you arrive at Roland Garros and you already have the title, would you say that this changes what you think about the tournament?  Maybe consciously or not you put more pressure on yourself?  Would this make any difference for this tournament?
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, I think it helped me.  On the contrary.  The fact that I had won here before had given me more confidence in myself.  I thought, Oh, I can go deep in this tournament because I have done it once.
So today I wanted to go as deep as possible.  I wanted to do my best and do the same this year.
Q. You have just played against Andy.  You know Novak by heart.  What would you say about the final?  I know it's not easy because you've just lost the semis.
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, I think Novak, as always, even though his recent matches he's played were very tight.  But when he's at his best he can beat anybody.  I think he will win the match.  But that's only my view, my opinion.
You know, he defeated him in Rome and it was really a tight score in Madrid.  He's finding solutions now against Novak, but I have the impression that Novak is where Novak wants to be and he will be playing his final.
Can I say something, as well?  I'd like to thank the organizers, the organization here at Roland Garros.  We have heard many criticisms, but I'm a player, you know, and I think the organization team have done an incredible thing.
You know, there are two things:  There is the infrastructure on the one hand, that is the roofing and what we have done so far.  This cannot be changed in a day.  And then, unfortunately, the appalling weather conditions for two weeks and all the things they had to manage.
I think they did a lot better than what we have seen in other Grand Slams, so I'd like to thank the organization team and Guy Forget, because it's his first year and he's had the worst-case scenario, I think.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT