MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 15, 2016
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. NADAL/S. Wawrinka
6-1, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. Was it one of those days where nothing was working?
STAN WAWRINKA: It was not a good day.  We can say this.  I rushed at the beginning.  I wasn't able to put my game into place.
Q. After that incredible match yesterday, how do you explain you didn't play well?
STAN WAWRINKA: There are some reasons that I know about that explain it was more difficult for me today.
Anyway, it was not a good day for me today.  I really need to work on two or three things that I want to improve.  I have two weeks, or a bit more, before I go to Madrid.  I will try to prepare well during that period.
Q. Are you talking about technical aspects of your game?
STAN WAWRINKA: I believe today it was more of a concentration issue or mentally that I had a problem.  I struggled.  I rushed at the beginning.  This is something you pay for against Rafa.
Q. You missed an overhead that apparently you kept in your mind for a while.
STAN WAWRINKA: No, I didn't.  But that kind of point, of course, can change a match.  It's rather the next game that made me frustrated.  We can talk for hours about a match like this one.  But I know what I need to do for the future.  I know what I have to work on.
Q. You were saying yesterday that Nadal had dropped his level a bit everywhere.  Do you still think that today after this match?
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, when I was saying that his level had dropped, I was talking about his results over the past year compared with the previous years.  During 10 years he won three Grand Slams every year.  Last year he didn't win any.  That's what I meant.  And I still believe that.
Q. Can you explain why you asked the umpire to make an announcement so that the restaurant wouldn't make that much noise.  Is it really annoying?
STAN WAWRINKA: It is annoying.  But it's part of Monte-Carlo.  Every year it's the same.  Normally I'm not too disturbed by that.  But when you don't play well and you're not into your match, it can bother you.  That's all.  But it's not the reason why I lost today and why I didn't play well.
It is part of this tournament.  You wonder whether people are coming to have lunch or to watch tennis.  I don't believe they saw a lot of the match.
Q. I confirm.
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, that's it.  And I think they also drank a lot of alcohol, considering the noise that was increasing.
Q. What you're lacking is consistency.  We saw you were doing Stan again.
STAN WAWRINKA: What do you mean 'doing Stan'?
Q. When you are angry at yourself and you don't play well.
STAN WAWRINKA: If I can 'do Stan' like I did during the past two years, winning titles and Grand Slams, I would sign up for it.
You're saying I 'do Stan'.  Well, it's my career.  It's me.  I could say many things, but I don't really want to go into those kind of things.  I want to see the positives in this.  I want to look forward.
I spoke with Yannick in the locker room.  I'm going to talk about the tournament and the beginning of the clay court season with Pierre and Magnus.  I will decide what I'm going to do.
I see many positive things.  I practice a lot and hard during the last few months.  I know this will pay off in the future.  I'm lucky that I can work with Pierre for my physical conditioning.  It's going to be very useful for the clay court season and for the next six months.  I believe the practical results will be better.
But, of course, if you play against Rafa in Monte-Carlo in the quarterfinals, you're allowed to lose those matches.
Q. Do you sometimes like to lose early because you can use that to rebound and start the next tournament better?
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, I would sign up for reaching the semifinals in every tournament.  But this is a quarterfinals in a Masters 1000 in Monte-Carlo.  Three years ago I would have signed up for that, too.  That's the difference.  During the past three years, I was able to go further.  I was able to win a Masters 1000 and Grand Slams.  So now when I lose in the quarterfinals in a Masters 1000, it's considered as a bad result.
As far as I'm concerned, I see many positive things in this tournament.  If I build on these positive aspects, I can improve for the next tournaments.
Q. You made stupid mistakes.  Will you be able to forget this match very quickly and look forward to the next tournament?
STAN WAWRINKA: If I want to win big tournaments, I need to forget about those matches quite quickly.  You need to take with you the positives in a match like this one, even if there's not many positives.
But I'm just trying to keep improving.
Q. From what you saw today, would you believe Rafa is now the favorite for this tournament?
STAN WAWRINKA: To tell you the truth, I couldn't care less.  I'm out of the tournament now.  I just hope Roger, who is in good shape, will win.  He's playing well right now.
For the rest of it, I just don't care.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT