MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 13, 2016
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. WAWRINKA/P. Kohlschreiber
7-6, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. Talk me through the match today.  You were relieved to get through in straight sets.
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, it was a good first match, first match on clay.  It's never easy to find the rhythm and to play the perfect match.  In general, I'm quite happy with the level already.
Q. And the next match.
STAN WAWRINKA: He's a really tough player.  Saw him play yesterday.  He was playing quite good already.  It's going to be a good test for me to see where is my level.  I will have to play already a really good match if I want to beat him.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. You felt your back in the beginning.  Any problem?
STAN WAWRINKA: No, no.  Things apparently are well.  Physically no problem.
Q. This is a satisfying match, isn't it?
STAN WAWRINKA: Yes, it's a very good victory for me.  A first round on clay.  I haven't played many matches lately.  Kohlschreiber played yesterday and has a good level.  We know what to expect from him.
I had ups and downs.  There are many things I could have done better.  But I'm satisfied with this victory.
Q. Were you able to practice?  How did it go?
STAN WAWRINKA: Practice is going well.  I've been working for the past week.  It helped me feel good.  Now what I need is to have some victories under my belt.  I need also mentally to be tougher and more focused.  This only comes when you play matches and you win matches.
Q. Did you try something new?
STAN WAWRINKA: No, nothing new.  I just tried to improve my game.  I tried to add things to my game.  In a match like today, it went well.  I hit dropshots.  I know I can do many other things.
But today, I had a good opponent.
Q. A question that has nothing to do with the match.  Can we say there are four Swiss in the top 10?  How can you explain in a small country like that, you can have these kind of results?
STAN WAWRINKA: There are no explanations.  It's been years that we had great players, Marc, Hlasek, others.  There are no explanations for that.  All these players had different backgrounds.  They were Swiss, but from various origins.  I think we are lucky to have so many champions in Switzerland.
Q. How can you prepare asparagus with passion fruit?
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, as the chef said, you need patience when you're cooking.  Yesterday we had to do it fast, in 30 minutes.  But the results were extremely tasty.
Q. Were there any people sick?
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, I don't think so.  I was the first one to taste it.  It was extremely good.  It was a great experience.  The chef was extremely nice.  It was a great pleasure for me.
Q. Aren't you going to organize a dinner for the journalists and Djokovic can bring chocolate?
STAN WAWRINKA: No, I will bring the alcohol.  It goes well with that (laughter).
Q. Next round will be Gilles Simon.
STAN WAWRINKA: A complicated match, as usual, against Gilles.  He's an extremely good player.  I saw him play against Dimitrov yesterday.  He's in very good shape right now.
Against him, you need to be clear about what you want to try to do, and you need to stick with your plan if you want to beat him.
We played each other several times.  I beat him; he beat me.  It's going to be a very good test to see where my level is right now.  It will be a test for my tennis and also a mental test.
Q. How do you need to play against him?
STAN WAWRINKA: I think it will depend on how fit I feel.
Q. Apparently the balls are faster this year?
STAN WAWRINKA: Yes, I also had that feeling.  I feel they are faster and maybe bouncing more, and not as heavy as usual.
But, anyway, I found the conditions very pleasant today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT