DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 25, 2016
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. WAWRINKA/P. Kohlschreiber
7-5, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What are your thoughts on that match?
STAN WAWRINKA: Quite happy with the match today.  Was feeling better on the court.  Better tennis in general.  I still had some up-and-down.  Not always serving well, not always playing my best tennis, but in general it was a good match.  I'm happy to get through in two sets.  I start to feel much better physically, so it's positive.
Q. We've got to ask you...
STAN WAWRINKA: Go for it.
Q. You're playing Nick Kyrgios.  What is the relationship between the two of you at the moment?
STAN WAWRINKA: It's, I would say, normal in the way that he's a tennis player, I'm a tennis player.  We are not friends, for sure.  We don't go dinner together.  But there is nothing else, you know.
We see each other on the tour every week almost.  That's it.  For me now to play him tomorrow it's a good challenge.  He's playing his best tennis.  He won last week.  He's full of confidence.  It's going to be really tough.
I saw him play many matches last week, and I saw today against Tomas.  He's playing really, really good tennis.  I will have to raise my level.  I will have to start to serve better, play better, and try to find solution.
Q. He said that you were on the same IPTL team and you finally got to know each other a little bit better.  Is that true?
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, yeah.  I did the full-time IPTL.  I went only a few days there, five days, four days.  We were on the same team.  I was there for the final weekend and it was good.  It was good, you know.  The team was great.
As I say, there is nothing else from last year.
Q. Have you forgiven him?
STAN WAWRINKA: Oh, it's...  What he did for sure wasn't right.  I thought it was a big mistake.
But that's it, you know.  Again, I'm focusing on what I'm doing.  I'm sure to play him tomorrow we will have no problem.  It's gonna be the...
Q. Will it give a little bit of edge to the match?
STAN WAWRINKA: Not from my side, no.  When I enter the court, you know, if I like or not the person, if I'm friends or not, I'm trying to focus on what I do.
It's not because we had some problem last year that I will have extra motivation or something else, you know.  People will talk about the match, a lot about the match tomorrow, a lot more than normally because of what's happen last year, but from my side there is nothing that I still have from last year.
I'm just going to go on the court, step on the court, try to play my best tennis and try to beat him.
Q. Have you had any contact with Magnus so far this week?  And what is his take on your performance?
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah.  We text like we always text, even when I'm not in tournament.  He's happy that I'm winning.  That's it.
Q. That's it?
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah.  There's not much to say, you know.
Yeah, for sure we talk, for sure.  We exchange SMS or whatever.  If he can help, he's gonna help me.  And that's it.
You know, there is nothing more that I have to say or nothing special to say.
Q. When will you next be with him?  Indian Wells?
STAN WAWRINKA: Indian Wells, yeah.  So now he's not available as a coach.
Q. You're here by yourself and you're coaching yourself out there on the court?
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, yeah.  I'm trying.  So far it's been okay.  We will see tomorrow, no?
But I'm 31 years old soon.  I have been coachless before Magnus for almost two years.  I'm used to do some weeks alone.  I decide to come here alone, because there is always people around, always many things to do, and sometimes I like to be alone.
I think it can only help my tennis and me in general.  I'm happy so far.  It's never easy, for sure, but it's good.  It's been a good week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT