DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 27, 2016
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WAWRINKA/M. Baghdatis   
6-4, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Are you glad you came?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Glad I came (smiling).  It's amazing end of week, for sure.  It was tough beginning, but always trying to fight, always trying to improve day by day even if I wasn't playing great at the beginning.   
I'm really happy to have another trophy.  It's amazing feeling, especially that today I was playing some really good tennis.  It was a tough final against Marcos.  We always play some tough match.  I'm really happy again to have the trophy.   
 Q.  How do you explain your record now in finals?  You have won nine in a row.  Not many people can pull that off.  
STAN WAWRINKA: There is no explanation.  I also know that more I win matches in the same week, more confidence I get.  I know that's normally when I get some finals I play my best tennis.  So far it's been some great nine finals.   
But I don't think about it.  I just try to go on court, to step on the court, try to get the trophy because at the end that's what I want.   
 Q.  You had some tough moments like the tiebreaker, 4-1 up and then 15-13.  Just assess a little bit tonight's performance.  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, it was, again, I think in general was good level.  It's tough conditions here to play.  It's flying.  It's fast, for sure.  Until 6-All in the tiebreak I was always up with mini break.  I did I think two double faults and two or three, three quick mistake.   
Then it start to be all about nerves.  You know, 6-6, 7-7, 10-10.  You try to stay there.  Try to play simple, aggressive, and was good to finish it in two sets.   
 Q.  You're 30 years old.  How many more times we see you in Dubai?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I don't know.  I don't know.  As long as I'm fit, playing well, I'm going to play.  So far it's been some amazing year.  I'm playing my best tennis since few years now, so hopefully I can keep the level and keep playing well this year.   
 Q.  How much easier is it being here on your own without sort of a big entourage of coaches and agents?  Does it work for you?  Obviously it does.  Does it work for you?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, sometimes.  Sometimes I like it.  For me, at the end of the day, I need to be focused on the tennis court.  I don't need to -- I never had really big team around me.  I don't have five, six, seven people.  I have my coach.  I have sometimes some friends along.   
Yeah, it was good week.  It was good week, in general.  I know what I have to do to be ready for matches.  I know what I have to do in matches.  So sometimes it's good.   
 Q.  Why do you think you had problems here before?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Here?  First was eight years ago so I wasn't playing the same level.  I don't know.  The two times I came, I didn't play good match.  That's it.  I remember one time I was sick.   
So yeah, was too long ago to compare or to find a reason why I was not just that good.   
 Q.  Today Marcos struggled on his first serve a little bit.  Is his second serve tricky, or...  
STAN WAWRINKA: You know, when you get in the final you are playing well.  You always try -- I look for myself.  If I don't put enough first serves in, I try to find some different things, second or whatever.   
Again, as I say, he's a really good player, especially when he get the confidence he's moving well, he's putting a lot of pressure from the baseline.   
I had to play really some good tennis.   
 Q.  Indian Wells next?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yes.   
 Q.  Where do you go between?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Going home for few days and then to Indian Wells.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT