AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2016
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. WAWRINKA/R. Stepanek
6-2, 6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How happy are you with the performance tonight?
STAN WAWRINKA: Really happy.  Was a good match in general.  Three sets win against Stepanek, Hisense Arena.  Didn't practice there before the match.
I was feeling well there.
Q. How do you feel generally coming into the tournament?  How is it going for you?  How do you feel?
STAN WAWRINKA: So far it's been okay.  Two match, two victory.  Today was a really good level on the tennis side.  Just focus every match, trying to rest between, trying to be ready for the next one.
Q. Is there a certain moment in a tournament - you have a couple of Grand Slams on your back now - when you can sense that this is going really good?  Does it take a couple of matches or...
STAN WAWRINKA: No.  At the beginning you just want to win the matches, win the first round, be in the second week, and see how it goes.
You can say to yourself it's been really good when you're really far in the tournament.  Before that you have to be really focused and be ready to pass.  Just know that I'm playing well in general.  I'm confident with my game.  I know it depends a lot of me when I go into the match against many players.  Trying to be as focused as I can.
Q. I know you don't like to talk about your private life.  I read an interview where you said last year felt a bit like a big mess.  Is the feeling now that you come into the new year that everything is settled?  Do you feel a bit more you can focus again better on tennis?  What is the feeling?
STAN WAWRINKA: I don't know.  We'll see.  It's just the beginning of the year, so we'll see how it's going to be.
You know, even tough last year.  Wasn't always easy.  I had my best year in the tennis side.  So really happy the way I'm focus on my job and my career.  I've been playing so well the past few years.  So trying to keep that level high and trying to win as much as I can.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT