AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2016
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. RAONIC/S. Wawrinka   
6-4, 6-3, 5-7, 4-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Can you tell us your thoughts on the match.  
STAN WAWRINKA: Tough match in general, for sure.  I think Milos start really well.  He was pushing, playing well.  Wasn't really feeling great there, not playing my best.  Wasn't moving to do something else.  I'm surprised to still have went five sets.   
For me, I tried to fight like always, tried to find solution.  I think he went a little bit down with his speed, with his movement.  I took the opportunity to push him to the fifth set.   
But for sure I'm disappointed.  I know I tried what I could today.   
 Q.  In what areas of the game would you say Milos has improved the most?  
STAN WAWRINKA: He's a really good player, you know.  He's been top five already, making semifinal in Grand Slam, winning a lot of tournament.  Since two years, he's really good.   
Today he did what I was expecting.  Maybe he change few things in his game, but in general he's the same tough player to play.   
 Q.  Anything you feel you could have done differently?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, no, no.  I think I honestly come from too far.  I've been sick since 10 days now.  Still trying to get into the second week.  Couldn't really be at my top.  When you play a top guy like Milos, it's difficult.  You need to be 100% to have a chance to beat him.   
Today he push from the beginning.  He was there.  That's it.  He was better.   
 Q.  Do you know why you didn't feel that well today on court?  
STAN WAWRINKA: As I say, you know, it's been a tough 10 days for me.  So it's tough to recover, to rest, and in the same time play Grand Slam.  That's it.   
 Q.  You've done well in the slams recently.  Is it a big disappointment now for you if you're not in the quarters?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, it's always a disappointment to lose a match, to lose before quarter, whatever, to lose in five sets.   
Again, in general, when I look at a tournament, I look about everything, not just the last match that I lost.  And I think it was still a positive tournament.  Find a way to be there, but lost against Milos.  He's a really good player also.  So it can happen.   
 Q.  What's coming up next for you?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Next tournament is going to be Marseille, then Dubai, Indian Wells, Miami.   
 Q.  You haven't played Dubai since 2008.  Your thoughts on going back now.  
STAN WAWRINKA: I think I like to sometimes change a little bit.  It's been a long time that I didn't play there.  New tournament, new routine.  It's been a while that I'm on the tour.  I like to change a little bit when I can.  We play always the same tournament we have to play.  When I have some choice to mix it a little bit, can be good also mentally to just see a different tournament.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts on the matchup tonight with Tomic and Murray?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I don't know.  It's going to be interesting match, for sure.  Tomic always play well here.  He's always playing his best tennis at home.  Andy has been a really tough player to beat.   
I think Andy is the favorite, for sure.  But is going to be interesting match to watch, that's for sure.  They're both really talented player.  They're going to play some amazing points, so it's going to be good match.   
 Q.  Do you have goals for the rest of the year?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Not really.   
 Q.  Did you change something in your preparation to this tournament?  You said you didn't have enough rest.  
STAN WAWRINKA: No, no.  The preparation was good.  I had nothing to change.  It's been a good preparation.  First tournament, then came here trying to practice.  Preparation was good.  Nothing about that.   
 Q.  Looking at Milos' game, this is the second time you played him this year, do you think if he makes it to the final and meets someone like Novak, he has the game to trouble him?  
STAN WAWRINKA: It's looking far ahead so far.  He's been semifinal already.  He beat some top guys already.  Always been dangerous with his serve, with his game.   
For sure he will have some chance to go far in Grand Slam.  That's for sure.  He always been.  But to win a Grand Slam, you have to beat two of the big four.  It's never easy.   
So we'll see.  I think there is few player that can push the top guys, that can go far in a Grand Slam.  But we'll see at the end of the day who is going to take the title.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT