AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2016
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WAWRINKA/D. Tursunov   
7-6, 6-3 (ret.)   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Disappointed you weren't able to play the full match?  
STAN WAWRINKA: That's not the way you want to win.  Never happy with an injury of an opponent, for sure.  But that's part of the game, so...   
I'm happy to get through the first one.   
 Q.  Is it difficult to face an opponent and remain concentrated when they are struggling with injury?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Depends.  Can be.  But today I don't think he change much his game because of the injury.  I think after a little bit he couldn't really push more, so that's why he stop.   
Before that, he was playing his game that he normally do.   
 Q.  He's ranked a lot lower at the moment than what he has been before.  How far off do you think he is from his former level?  
STAN WAWRINKA: He's been injury for a long, long time.  That's why he's not ranked in the top 100.  He's been out for months and months.  It's never easy to come back.   
But I think he's trying to come back since end of last year.  For sure, he was 20 or 22 something in the world.  He's always been a dangerous player.  For sure he has the game to be back in the top 50.   
 Q.  Stepanek next round.  What are your thoughts going into that next match?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Always a tough opponent.  Play him last year in Tokyo.  Tough match.  He's always playing good.  He qualifies or qualifying here, I think.  Quite fast surface, so he should serve and volley, playing flat.  All depends little bit how I'm going to play.   
If I'm serving well, playing well, aggressive, hopefully I can made it through.   
 Q.  Obviously you had success here a couple years ago.  How much does playing in Melbourne mean to you?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, it's amazing here for me.  For me winning here first Grand Slam was something really special for sure.  Always played some good tennis.  Coming back after 2014, winning here, it will always be different for me.   
 Q.  With the match fixing report that came out, what do you think about tennis tournaments having gambling companies as a sponsor?  
STAN WAWRINKA: About gambling sponsoring tournaments, maybe you have to see the big picture.  I'm sure corruption and problem for gambling website or gambling company, it's not good.   
Probably if they sponsor a sport, they are going to try everything to make sure there is no corruption.  That can be maybe something good for the tennis also.  Maybe the gambling company can come to the tennis and make sure there is no corruption, because they lose a lot of money when there is problem.   
For the tennis, it's not good to have some corruption.  But for the gambling company neither.   
So I think it can be only positive.   
 Q.  Did you see any of Rafael Nadal's loss today, given he was in your quarter of the draw?  What were your thoughts on the loss?  Did you see any of it?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Just the end a little bit.  Verdasco was playing really well at the end.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT