BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 16, 2015
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. NADAL/S. Wawrinka
6-3, 6-2
An interview with:
STAN WAWRINKA
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. I can understand you're probably disappointed with the way the first set ended.  From the start of the second set, things seemed to fall apart quite quickly.  Can you explain what happened?
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, didn't went the right way.  No, just disappointed in general.  I don't think was great level, was great match.  You know, when something goes wrong today, everything went wrong.  Just everything went the wrong way.  Simple.
Q. In the second set you seemed to be playing very fast in between points and going for more than you usually would.  Is there an injury problem you have?  What was the reason for that?
STAN WAWRINKA: I don't know.  Was just a really bad day at the office.  Many little things, as I said, that wasn't good today.  For sure, if you look, it's a really bad match.  Bad behaving on the second set, going too fast.  Things that are not too great on myself.
Hopefully I can put it back together and get ready for the next match.
Q. Besides your play today, which was not great, you played Rafa a lot in the last few weeks.  What do you think he's doing, if anything, better than a few months ago?
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, he's playing better than few months ago, that's for sure.  You can see the last two months he made some final, played some good match, beat some top-10 guys, playing a little bit more aggressive, staying a little bit more on his line.
But still for sure he's not where he wants to be probably or where he was when he was No. 1 and really strong.  But so far he's been playing better.
Q. Were you bothered by the speed of Rafa's play?  Seemed to be complaining to the umpire about that at one point.
STAN WAWRINKA: Today I was bothered with everything.
But, no, speed, I think he was trying to play the same as when I played him in Paris 10 days ago.  He's trying to be, for sure, more aggressive, faster a little bit.
But, again, he played the match he needed.  I wasn't there today.  That's it.
Q. Most of the singles matches last year in the round-robin stage were straight sets.  So far this year there's been four quite quick matches.  Do you think there's any reason for that?  Tiredness?  The court surface?  Any explanation?
STAN WAWRINKA: I honestly don't have any reason.  I remember getting the same question last year.  I think the player didn't have the reason, that's for sure.  It's just the way it is here.  Last year was some really quick match.  This year it's going the same direction.  It's tough to give any reason to that.
Q. One of the television commentators seemed to think in the second set you weren't playing with your best effort.  What would you say to that?
STAN WAWRINKA: That he wasn't on the court.  Simple.  You know, it's last tournament of the year, so I don't want to leave this week.  I want to stay as much as possible.
Again, I'm on the court, I'm trying to do what I can.  Today it wasn't a great match, that's for sure.  But that's it.
Q. You played really well here last year.  Is there something different about your form overall?  Do you think you can get it back later in the tournament?
STAN WAWRINKA: We'll see.  You know, it's still just the first match.  For sure I will have to play better.  But you never know.  That's why it's interesting here:  you can lose the first match, still qualify.
I will have to play some better tennis.  I will have to be back on my top form for the next one against David Ferrer.  We'll see.
So far I just lost.  Going to see what I'm going to do tomorrow and get ready for the next one.
Q. Is there anything different this year than last year in your preparation for it?
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, for sure, last year was straight after Paris.  This year with more time, I had one good week to get ready, had some good practice with the guys here.  I was hoping to be ready for tonight.
But tonight I wasn't here.  Now I'm going to focus for the next one.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT