BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 20, 2015
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WAWRINKA/A. Murray   
7-6, 6-4   
An interview with:   
STAN WAWRINKA   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Your serve is very good, is perfect.  The percentage sometimes is low.  In your opinion, maybe the nerves can influence the timing and rhythm of the shot?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, for sure.  When you're nervous, you start to move a little bit less, not to put enough legs, not to have the great timing.  But not only the serve, but from the baseline also.   
Yeah, I think the good thing with my serve is I normally have a really good second serve.  Not a lot of player can attack that serve.  That make me think sometimes even if I don't put too many first serves, I can be relaxed and okay with the second serve in general.   
For sure I'm trying to have a higher percentage on first serve.  It's always better.  But, yeah, for sure at the end of the match when you start to be nervous, you don't play the same.  That's it.   
 Q.  Andy is in the same position you were last year.  You were playing the Davis Cup Final on clay right after.  When you were here last year, was the Davis Cup playing on the back of your mind?  Did you think about the Davis Cup while still in this tournament?  
STAN WAWRINKA: For me not at all.  I was in completely different position.  First, we didn't have that week off between Paris and here.  I didn't have time to think.  I wasn't playing great at all.  I was looking for my confidence for my game.  So for me was important to focus day by day, focus on trying to play well here, trying to find some confidence, trying to play some top guys.  Then I know if I feel good with my tennis and confidence, then for me it's quite easy to change on the clay.   
After the tournament here, it was tough.  I wasn't thinking Davis Cup because after losing to Roger with match point and everything, it wasn't easy at all.  But then when I arrive in Lille, for me was important to be ready.  We knew Roger was struggling, would not be ready for the Friday.  I had all the pressure to make sure I was ready for that.   
Again, clay, it's normally the easiest surface for me to change.  He play one week here before, he's thinking a lot about that.  He knows he needs sometimes more time to adapt on the clay.  Let's see.  Hopefully he can be ready for next week.  But he has enough time for sure.   
 Q.  Tomorrow's match against Roger.  You know each other very well.  You remember the match you played here last year.  How will you cope with tomorrow's match.  
STAN WAWRINKA: He's playing really well.  It's tough to play indoor, especially World Tour Final, he is always fit, always ready.  Last year was an opportunity to beat him, didn't took them.   
Let's see, I had a tough match now, two hours' match with a lot of pressure.  I also feel quite tired.  I'm going to be focused on that, try to rest, try to recover and be ready for hopefully a good match.   
 Q.  You've been here three times now and you've got to the semifinals on all three occasions.  This year you've performed better in each successive match.  What is it about the courts here or the tournament that seems to suit you so well?  
STAN WAWRINKA: It's a little bit of everything.  First, it's amazing tournament to play.  It's a big chance to be in the top eight at the end of the year.  I always try to enjoy, I always try to give everything.   
Then the condition normally are quite good for me.  But you also play only the top guys, the top eight players.  If you look the last two years, almost two and a half, I start to beat a lot of the top guys.  I start to be really confidence against them, have the game to beat them.   
That's what happened the past three years here.   
 Q.  It's almost the end of the season.  I wanted to reflect on one of the highlights of 2015:  your famous shorts from Roland Garros.  Any new designs planned for the future for 2016?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Should be not that crazy (smiling).  Should be more easy, more quiet, more normal color let's say, not five or seven color in one short.  Should be okay for you guys.   
 Q.  You're playing Andy here in England, but you seem to get a lot of support.  What do you think of the English crowd compared to Spain or Italy?  Is the English crowd too sporting?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Today I would have to say was one of the best atmosphere here I have in the past three years.  Was a lot of support.  Also I think here it's quite a mixed crowd.  People from the world buy tickets one year in advance to come here.  It's not only English crowd.  Even if he had a lot of support today, I was feeling the crowd behind me also.  It was a really good atmosphere, I enjoyed.   
 Q.  Since you've become a Grand Slam champion and a top player, has your relationship changed with Roger at all over the years compared to before that time?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, yeah, it change.  But like with all the player.  It change because we start to talk about different thing.  We start to know also each other better and better, with last year playing Davis Cup, sharing a lot of good memory together.  Always been there.  I practice so many times with him.   
He's amazing for the game, that's for sure.  But he's always been really good with me.  I always enjoy to share the court with him.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT