BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 18, 2015
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WAWRINKA/D. Ferrer   
7-5, 6-2   
An interview with:   
STAN WAWRINKA   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You seemed to suddenly click back into gear and it began to roll okay again.  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, my game start to feel better out there.  I didn't start well.  I starting to play a little bit better the middle of the first set.  I'm a little bit lucky he gave me back the game to come back in the set completely.   
Then for sure my head start to be more clear and I start to play better tennis, what I'm supposed to do here.  I'm quite happy with the win, especially to turn around the first set and finish that way.   
 Q.  Is it easier psychologically when it's a straightforward scenario, now you're just playing Andy for a place in the semifinals?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, for sure.  I think it's easy.  It's good.  It's good for us.  We know we're going to go on the court and the winner will be in the semifinal.  It's quite simple.   
I think it's easier, what you have to do.  You know what you have to expect.  You have to go for it and try to win.   
 Q.  How do you feel about that matchup with Andy?  The first time in more than two years you played each other.  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, first time in two years.  I think last time was US Open 2013 quarters.   
It's going to be interesting for sure.  We used to have some big battle in the past, some tough match, three sets, four sets.  It's going to be interesting how I'm going to play Friday, if I'm going to bring the positive game that I start to play today, and also how he's going to be.   
He's having amazing year, No. 2 in the world.  So dangerous indoor, especially at home.  So we'll see.  We'll see how he's going to be also Friday.   
 Q.  Have you watched many of his matches over the last two years?  Are you expecting anything radically different?  
STAN WAWRINKA: No, I don't think so.  I think he's quite the similar player, this year for sure way better because he's been a little bit more confidence, more aggressive, winning so many matches.   
Again, if you look, he had a similar week so far than me.  Played a good solid first match, and today was completely down.  We'll see what's going to happen on Friday.   
 Q.  He's in a similar situation to what you were in last year, the World Tour Finals and then the Davis Cup Final.  Do you think that could have a bearing on what he's thinking about, how much energy he wants to expend in this particular tournament?  
STAN WAWRINKA: It's tough to say.  It's tough to say what he's thinking.  If he's completely focused or not.  If he's already thinking too much about Davis Cup.   
It's impossible to know exactly what we can expect from him for Friday.  For sure if I look the match today, I think was a little bit flat.  For sure the fact he practiced so much after Paris on clay to get the rhythm doesn't help him to feel completely fresh this week.   
We'll see.  Maybe he's going to feel more relaxed, no pressure, go for it more, or maybe he's not going to be completely here.  We'll know how he is.  If he's mentally not really here, then he's a different player.   
 Q.  Can you remember how you felt?  How did you feel in the group matches going through the week a year ago?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Again, I'm completely different player.  I had different career also.  It was my second World Tour Finals, so it was really important.  For me, I was focused to find my confidence back.  I wasn't playing well since US Open.  It was important to try to get matches, beat the top guys, because I knew going to clay after in one, two days, I was ready for it.   
Also I came straight after Paris.  Wasn't any week between.  It was impossible to do anything for me.  I was 100% focused here because it was important for me, then I switched in two days.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT