SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 16, 2015
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. NADAL/S. Wawrinka
  6‑2, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. How was the match? 
STAN WAWRINKA: It was quick (smiling). 
No, it was a quick match. Not great. That's it. Not too good today. Not feeling good enough to push him. 

Q. Did you feel the effects of last night's late finish? Do you feel the schedule should have allowed you a little more time to recover?
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, for sure. For sure physically I feel the effect of last night, but also the past 10 days. I've been playing a lot, winning Tokyo. 
Today I was just struggling a little bit. It's that simple. Against Nadal you cannot do anything if you're not 100%. 

Q. Last night you had a right shoulder problem. Did you have it today?
STAN WAWRINKA: No. 

Q. Totally fine?
STAN WAWRINKA: Yes. 

Q. What was the like for you at the end of last year when you played at the World Tour Finals, had a big match against Roger there, then within a few days you were playing Davis Cup on clay? Andy Murray has to do the same this year. How difficult was that, not only physically going from playing for yourself in the World Tour Finals, to playing for your team in the Davis Cup?
STAN WAWRINKA: For me last year was a lot about getting confidence back with my game. When I start to play way better already Basel, Paris, my game was there. World Tour Final, I was playing really well. I was with confidence because clay court is quite I would say more natural for me to move, to go on clay court. I remember last year practicing the Monday and feeling good already. So for me it was important to play a lot before that, to get some match, to get some win, and to get the confidence back in my game.

Q. Andy is talking about practicing on clay between Bercy and the O2. Did you do that and do you think that's a good idea?
STAN WAWRINKA: Again, I think we are different player for the clay. For me, clay, it's quite easy to move on the clay. Maybe he needs more time for that. 
For sure I think it's a good idea. If he's looking to be ready for Davis Cup Final, I think it's important that he can go early on the clay, try how he feel, try also see how his body react for that. If he's doing good schedule, yeah, he will probably be more than ready for the Final. 

Q. How was it for you? What was the comparison between winning Davis Cup and winning a Grand Slam?
STAN WAWRINKA: There is no comparison possible for me. Again, completely two different trophy. There is not one better than the other, it's just different competition. 
Davis Cup was always a dream for me. Playing for the team, playing for Switzerland, always been so important, always gave so much for that. So it was really a dream come true. 
Grand Slam, I never dream about it. So for me I watch so many final, I never expect to be there. It was a different feeling. You're alone on the court. You celebrate with a different team also. 
So both are just amazing in tennis. 

Q. Did you think that winning the Davis Cup was a more realistic chance than winning a Grand Slam?
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, for sure. That's for sure. You know, if you look, Switzerland, when you see we have Roger in your country, you can dream about doing that. Especially 2008 we start playing really good together in Beijing Olympics. We know we can play really well together.

Q. You've been playing Rafa in a number of memorable matches for a few years now. There was some speculation that his best days were past him. With the performance he put in against you just now, do you think the potential is there for him to be right back at the top in 2016?
STAN WAWRINKA: For sure he has the possibility to be there, back again. If we look him, Roger, Andy, they all had one year struggling a little bit. Roger was two years ago. Andy had also some back problems. They both came back at the top. So I don't see why Nadal will not come back at his top. 
So far he's not there yet, that's for sure. It's not easy. Also he was struggling this year. But he's a champion, so I'm sure he will have opportunity to win Grand Slam and to be back at his top level. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT