U.S. OPEN
September 11, 2015
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. FEDERER/S. Wawrinka
6-4, 6-3, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What made it so difficult for you tonight?
STAN WAWRINKA: Him, the way he's playing.  Condition a little bit different than when I play my match here on Ashe?  It's a little bit more flying in the night.  It's playing really fast.  Didn't play my best game.  Didn't serve well and everything.
But basically it's him, the way he's playing.
Q. You think if Roger plays this aggressive attacking style against Novak that will give him the best chance to win?
STAN WAWRINKA: I don't know.  Maybe.
Q. You have known him a long time.  Can you just talk about how he's moving right now.
STAN WAWRINKA: He's moving really well, for sure.  As I said before playing him, I saw him in Cincinnati, I think he's quite fast on the court.  He's reading well the game, and so he's trying really to stay on the line, not to go back.  Stay really aggressive.  He's serving really well, also.  He's serving better than I never see him serve.
For me tonight he's getting more angles.  It's more tough to really serve and to make something from.
Q. Do you think the partial roof and speed of the court are contributing to how he's playing on that particular court?
STAN WAWRINKA: I don't know.  Always been quite medium fast here at US Open central court.
For sure now there is almost no wind on the court, so it's quite nice to play.  He always played well here, always love to play here, and, yeah, so far he's been too good.
Q. You had a couple chances in the first set.  Do you think if you might have gotten a break then it...
STAN WAWRINKA: Maybe, maybe not.  I don't know.
For sure it doesn't help when you play Roger and he's trying to play really aggressive, really fast.  When he get the lead, when he get the break, then he's relaxed.  The way he's playing he's reading better, moving better, so everything going faster, that's for sure.
I tried everything with what I had today, for sure.  I wasn't serving well at all.  That doesn't help because I don't get free point.  I cannot really start the point from the baseline being aggressive.
Yeah, was tough.  Didn't get my -- I would say my heavy ball from baseline was tough to put some topspin.  Was flying a little bit more than what I expect, but he was simply too good.
Q. Obviously your tournament ended before you'd like it to, but how would you assess your play over the course of the tournament?
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, I need to see the whole picture.  I think it's still a great result, amazing result from me, making semifinal again.
I didn't play really my best tennis.  I didn't play the way I wanted all the tournament, but I still in semifinals.
So if I look my result in Grand Slam this year I couldn't ask for more.  Make two semifinal, one quarterfinal, and one time winner.  It's something amazing for me.
Q. You talked about Roger's speed.  What surprised you most about his game tonight?  Did you feel like he was almost a different player than the Roger you played in the past?
STAN WAWRINKA: Not a different player, but he's being more aggressive, that's for sure.
As I say, he's really staying on the line.  It's tough to compare because you need to find also the good match.  You cannot take a match from clay court or grass, for example.  For example, London Masters last year indoor, is quite similar, but he was more playing from the baseline.
Today he's trying to be really, really aggressive, trying to come to the net every time he can and trying to stay on the line.
Even when he's in defense you can see he's not going back.  He's staying on the line, trying to make half-volley passing.
Q. You probably know Roger better than anyone else in the circuit.  Do you think this is his best level ever?
STAN WAWRINKA: Ah, it's tough to say.  He's been winning so many Grand Slams, so many tournaments.  We'll see.  For sure it's close from his best.
Also the game now is a different level than few years ago, so everybody is improving from few years ago.  But is the best that I saw him play since few years, that's for sure.
Q. Do you feel like the sport in general, talking about how to play him this year, do you feel like it's more of an outdoor court or does it feel more indoor?
STAN WAWRINKA: It's between, but it's getting closer for more indoor court, that's for sure, without wind.  Now you cannot even compare the center court with Armstrong, for example.  It's completely two different condition.
Armstrong it gets windy, even feels a little bit of wind.  Now you have nothing on center court.  Yeah, it's getting faster, but it's still a good court to play.  That's for sure.
Q. You have said a moment ago that everyone is changing and evolving.  Obviously Roger's made a lot of changes during all his career, but do you feel like he's accelerated the pace of those changes, training, tactics, all those things in the last year or two that in other periods of his career?
STAN WAWRINKA: I think for sure he's always trying to improve, trying to change.  He change his racquet last year, and it takes time to get used to the racquet and get what you want with the racquet.
But if you look at him -- I think the second part from the year, after Wimbledon, he is starting already at the different level.  He came back Cincinnati at a completely different level.  Here also.  If you look at the first part he was playing good, make final Wimbledon, but the rest was amazing.
If you look now, if you keep this level, he's going to be tough to beat.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT