US OPEN
September 3, 2019
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. MEDVEDEV/S. Wawrinka
7-6, 6-3, 3-6, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. It looked like at the end of the third that maybe you were back in it. Then he sort of came on very strong and your game seemed to go down. What happened?
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, I think in general he's playing really well. He's really solid. He has a tough game to play.
I didn't start well. I never really find the right rhythm. I wanted to find between staying back and being offensive. Didn't serve so well.
He was playing well. He was there when he need it, and he was the better player today.
Q. In the first set, the way he might have been moving and anything from the trainer enter into your mind? Did it seem like maybe he might not continue? He said after the match he wasn't sure early on if he'd be able to play a full match.
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, but for me was not really important. I saw him saying the last two matches that he didn't feel he could play but he's still winning, still playing well, and still playing better and better the more the match goes on. So it was nothing important for me.
Q. Not being able to get rhythm, how hard is that against a player like the way he played?
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, it's what he's good at. He's playing a different ball. He's really solid from baseline. Playing really flat backhand.
For me, I wasn't at my best today. I wasn't moving great. I didn't mix enough my game, and at the end it was struggle.
Q. He said on court that because of the way he was hurt early on that it's hard for you to play against that. Can you just describe how is that hard?
STAN WAWRINKA: As I say, I don't care. You know, I saw him play the last few matches and been saying he has pain, and for sure he has pain. Some players like to show everybody they have pain. Some others hide it.
I'm pretty sure all the players, 95%, we all have pain. We deal with it the way he's doing it, and he's doing well because he's playing well. So that's why I'm saying when I saw he was taking time out, for me was not a problem. I knew he will fight anyway and that he's a tough player to beat. Today he was better player than me.
Q. A lot of fans are wondering where the next really great champion is coming. Daniil has had a very good summer. He's still very young. He's had really significant results. Could you assess his upside, where he might go in the near future?
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, he's already top 5, so he's already at the top. Simple as that. He won Cincinnati, he make final in Montreal, he's in semifinal here.
Then it's tough to say he's going to win 10 Grand Slams or going to win one Grand Slam. Who knows? But he's already at the top, so he's already a really strong player.
Q. What was it you shared with him at the end at the net?
STAN WAWRINKA: He just said he was sorry and he really had pain and it was nothing with me. I told him it was no big deal, no problem. He's playing super well and good luck for the future.
Q. Playing as well as he is over the last month, do you think he can win this tournament?
STAN WAWRINKA: He can, but I don't think he will. I think it's going to be really difficult. But that's just my opinion.
Q. Why?
STAN WAWRINKA: Because he looks to start to be tired, and he has to beat some more tougher player in the semifinal, Roger or Grigor, and then in the final. But again, he's showing last few weeks that anything can happen with him, so for sure he's going to have a shot. He just need two more matches.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT