WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 21, 2015
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/S. Wawrinka
  6‑4, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. Novak had eight service games against you. He had only one ace. Were you able to read his serve really well? 
STAN WAWRINKA: Apparently not really, as I didn't break him. He's not also the guy going to be 45 aces like Karlovic yesterday. He's tough. 
He's still tough to read even when I touch that, because I can put a good return in. No, no, today in general he was too strong.

Q. What was the problem with your side today? Was it physical? Was it mental? Was it just a bad day?
STAN WAWRINKA: No. I think maybe I'm a little bit empty mentally to stay at my top. I'm generally happy with my tournament. I know where I am. There is a lot of positive to take from this week winning two tough match without playing my best tennis, fighting, staying there. 
I think my level is there. I know and I can see where I am. I'm happy with the way and what I did this week.
I'm excited for US Open.

Q. Obviously different conditions, different court surfaces here, but how much did the French Open final come back to you as you played Novak again for the first time?
STAN WAWRINKA: Nothing when I come to the match today. We know we had some big battle in the past in Grand Slam, but normally the past I think 10 years he was always too strong in two sets.

Q. It was 4‑All in the first and he broke you. Right after that he seemed to really take control of the match. Were you having some disbelief at that point after he broke you?
STAN WAWRINKA: No, not disbelief. As I say, I was feeling good, playing well, feeling good the ball. 
It's just like I was sometimes a little bit between what I want to do and what I was doing, a little bit late, always a little bit between.
That's it. When you play the No. 1 in the world and he's playing well, you have no chance.

Q. Is he really playing that well, do you think, right now?
STAN WAWRINKA: He's not playing his best, but he's playing well enough to be there, for sure. As you can see this year he has amazing year again. He's losing only few matches. He already won two Grand Slam. He's there winning almost everything. 
So this guy, even when he's not playing his best, he can beat me the way he did today. 








END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT