U.S. OPEN
September 3, 2015
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WAWRINKA/H. Chung   
7-6, 7-6, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  He's a tough young player.  First US Open.  Just talk about the challenge he presented for you.  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, he's really good player.  Was tough match today.  Playing first time against him; saw him play also.   
He's moving well.  He's a great fighter.  He always try to give you more balls to play or always try to find solution.  He's playing well from the baseline.   
 Q.  He's been spoken of as a possible, you know, top contender as he matures.  Do you see him as a player who down the road could go far as a Grand Slam champion?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Can be really good, for sure.  He's young and already playing well.   
He has a long way to go.  You have to see how he's gonna practice, improve, how he's going to work.  That you will see in a few years only.   
 Q.  How did you feel about your game today?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I feel good in general.  Happy to get through in three sets.  I played really three good tiebreaks in general.   
Up and down a little bit, but in general it was a good match.   
 Q.  What were the weather conditions like for you and how did you deal with them?  
STAN WAWRINKA: It was tough today.  I think it's more difficult than last year.  More humid, more warm.  Today was really tough day with the conditions.  You have to really be careful how you get ready for the match, what you eat, what you're gonna do and what you're gonna take during the match.   
You can see there is many, many players struggling with the conditions today.   
 Q.  Once you're on the court, how did it affect you?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Hot, for sure.  But, again, I'm normally okay in those conditions.   
I know normally that I can stay, that I'm ready physically to battle for long hours in that condition.  Today was hot, was humid, but still we play three hours and I'm feeling okay.   
 Q.  We have seen several retirements.  Not all of them of course were due to the heat.  Do you think there is anything that should be done to compensate for such conditions and deal with the threats to people's physical health?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I don't know what we can do about it.  We can be better physically maybe, first thing to do.  (Smiling.)   
I don't know if today was the heat rule for the women's or not.  If yes, that's just a question I always asking myself.  Why they have the heat rule if it's dangerous for them after two sets to have ten minutes and why we don't have anything for five sets that's maybe there?  That is the question if we want to see something for the guys.   
But, again, in general, I think this year especially with so many retirements in general.  We don't have that much.   
 Q.  I believe this is the most retirements ever in US Open.  Certainly they are not all heat related.  A good share of the margin.  Sock was out today.  He couldn't complete his match.  
STAN WAWRINKA: I saw that.   
 Q.  Have you found it particularly difficult?  Played two matches these last few days.  Very hot and humid.  That's not unusual for August/September in New York.  
STAN WAWRINKA: For sure more than the past few years.  For sure it's really hot and humid.  But, again, we get ready for that.  We practice hard.  We get ready physically to play in tough condition, and so far I'm still here and I'm happy to get through.   
 Q.  You raised the question a moment ago of the possibility of the heat rule on the men's side.  What would you like to see happen?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I don't know.  I honestly don't know what I want to see.  Again, as I say, I'm normally okay with heat and humidity.  I don't have problem physically.  Never retired because of that.  Never had really big cramping or big problem because of that.   
But I'm just saying if they put something for the woman and they see that a lot of players struggling -- you were asking the question about what we should do or what the tournament should do for the player.  I'm just bringing something.  For me, it's fine.  I'm still okay with no rule and anything.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the next opponent?  You have never played him.  How will you prepare for that?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I know him.  Never play him.  My coach know him.  I'm going to watch, like I did with Chung, watch video and talk with my coach.  Good player from the baseline.  Always dangerous.   
And we will see.  I'm going to have a good practice tomorrow and get ready for the next one.   
 Q.  Do you think you're getting better in the tournament?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, I think today I was better, for sure.  I'm playing better.  Again, my game, physically, I'm here, so hopefully with some win and some confidence I will start to play better and better.   
 Q.  Were you surprised with his performance today?  Did you feel at any time your performance was at risk?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Surprise not.  I was expecting a tough player to play a tough match.  He was playing really well; he was fighting well.   
Again, I'm happy to get through.  It could have been more than three sets.  Could have been four, five sets.  You never know.  He played some great tennis in those tiebreak and I'm happy to win this match.   
 Q.  When you think about being down in a match and coming back to win, what are the qualities that are most needed to come back in a match when you're down?  And when you see Serena Williams who seems to do it all the time, what are your thoughts?  
STAN WAWRINKA: For my side, I focus on my game.  I know that when I'm tough with myself, when I play, when I start to find or to be close for my top, I can beat all the player, a lot of players.  I'm just trying to focus on that.   
 Q.  And when you see Serena?  What goes through your mind when you see all the matches where she's come from behind and is on this Grand Slam run?  With so many matches like that.  
STAN WAWRINKA: I think it's not that simple when you play her, when you're on the court.   
I think also me, when I look her match this year, so many match she was down and you always expect her to win and to come back, but it's tough what she's doing.  She's a great fighter.  Hopefully she's gonna win here.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT