WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2015
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WAWRINKA/F. Verdasco
  6‑4, 6‑3, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   You said after the match that you had three perfect matches here so far.   What has been working for you so well this week?
STAN WAWRINKA:   I have the results so far.   Three sets each match.   That's why I'm saying it's perfect matches.   In Grand Slams, you have to win and to win in three sets, it's great. 
Playing better and better.   Serving really well since the beginning of the tournament, being really aggressive.   Start to feel more comfortable for moving and in defense also. 
No, today was really solid match.   I'm really happy with the match today. 

Q.   What does it mean to you to be into the second week here and playing with such confidence?
STAN WAWRINKA:   It's great.   It's great.   I'm really happy.   For sure, confidence is there.   But it doesn't give you the winning matches. 
I'm focused every match for me.   I'm happy to be in second week, but I don't arrive here saying I have to do second week.   I arrive and I'm playing match after match.   I know what I can do, how well I can play, and hopefully I can still win some matches. 

Q.   Your backhand seems to be gathering a lot of attention.   On Court1 today, some of the crowd, they really appreciate your backhand.   That shot is becoming one of the more famous ones in the game.   Is it your favorite one to play?   What makes it so special?
STAN WAWRINKA:   It's always been one of my favorite shot, especially along the line. 
I think it start to be special because I'm really strong from the backhand.   But especially the power, I can put on that shot.   Normally if you look at people, they have big forehand, and backhand always a little bit more softer.   I can always generate a lot of power from that shot.   I can go cross.   I can mix a lot what I'm going to do with it.   Maybe that's the reason why people talk about it. 

Q.   You probably had slightly less success on grass than you have obviously on clay and hard courts.   Can you explain why that is when your game seems to fit grass so well?   Do you actually feel more comfortable on it this year?
STAN WAWRINKA:   One of the reason is you have less tournament also.   Always need time for my game.   The season is really short on grass.   If you do one bad match, you're already out of the tournament and you don't have many other opportunity to play well.   That's one of the reason. 
But I think since few years now, I feel really, really good on the grass.   I still think I can play my best game. 
Last year I played a really good, good tournament, being in quarter.   So far it's been great.   I can see that I'm there in second week playing good, not playing my best tennis, but playing good and still there.   Feeling strong on the court. 
Hopefully I can play some great match on Monday. 

Q.   What are your thoughts about the matchup against your next opponent?
STAN WAWRINKA:   It's a tough one.   I played David in Chennai this year.   Was tough match.   He is really talented player.   He love the grass.   Has amazing backhand, returning well.   He's dangerous because he like to stay on the line, playing really fast. 
We'll see how I'll have to play my game to be aggressive, serving well, mix a lot, making him going back a little bit. 

Q.   How many marks would you give yourself today?   How important has it been that you could get through so comfortably, leaving yourself with plenty of fuel in the tank?
STAN WAWRINKA:   It's great, for sure, to be in second week, winning three sets.   I never get broken in three matches.   Playing that well.   My game is there, in general, but also the confidence is there. 
I know how I have to deal mentally when I'm nervous, when there is tough situation.   Again, it's been great.   But now I'm focused on the next one. 

Q.   I would like to go back a few weeks to Roland Garros, when you won versus Djokovic.   He was extremely a sportsman in accepting his defeat.   Does it happen to you often to realize how different are the players towards the defeat?   Some are good losers, some are bad losers.   Do you think that Djokovic was exceptionally well‑mannered that day?
STAN WAWRINKA:   Yeah, for sure.   It was great.   But we have a close relationship since many years.   He's a good friend on the tour.   We have a good relationship with the team also.   We almost practice every tournament.   We spend every week together.   We had some big battle on the tour since now two years, in Grand Slams, some five‑set match. 
That's makes something different.   That's makes something happen.   For sure, as I already say, I respect what he's doing.   I respect the player he is, and the person also. 
That's maybe the reason.   But for sure he was extremely fair player after the match. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT