WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 19, 2015
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WAWRINKA/B. Coric
  3‑6, 7‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
   
 Q. Was the back a problem at all today?  
STAN WAWRINKA: No, I'm good. Physically no problem.   
   
 Q. Struggling to find your range in the beginning. Tell us what the last week was like for you.   
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, for sure I was struggling today to be completely on the court and to fight the way I wanted and everything. You know, it's been some tough day for some people, and it's always difficult to completely focus on the tennis court.  
   
 Q. You said I think on TV that Kyrgios had not apologized to you. Is that the case, he has not apologized to you?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Not the way that you want to say it. Not the way that you want to say it. He didn't really apologize to the people. He should. That's it. That simple.  
   
 Q. Your mind has been elsewhere. Describe what you have been going through, how you have been feeling through the last few days, and how everyone around you has been dealing with this.   
STAN WAWRINKA: I think it's not that simple how people see it and how you see it. For you I would say it's quite easy. You write the story, you agree, you disagree, you try to see what is the problem, what is not the problem, what's the limit, what is not the limit.   
No one really see the consequences for the people involved. That's the main problem, and that's the big concern for myself. That's why it's tough to deal with.  
   
 Q. What are the consequences for you?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Ah, that's going too far. I'm trying to put all the story behind, but it's not that simple. It's something that's‑‑ again, for you it's another story. Next week you will all other story that you will do it, and for me, I have to deal with that quite big.  
   
 Q. Back to the match, how did you feel? Where is your game?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Just happy to win. That's it.  
   
 Q. And now against a big server, tell me a little bit‑‑ how do you respond? How do you go to a match like that?   
STAN WAWRINKA: It's quite simple. I am not saying that negative way. It's quite simple, the tactic, when you play Karlovic. He is serving big. You don't get many chance.   
I need to be aggressive. I need to serve well. I need to try to play my game as simple as possible.   
   
 Q. Borna is only 18 years old. Were you impressed what you saw in his game? Do you see similarities to Djokovic?  
STAN WAWRINKA: It's not the first time I play him. For sure he's playing amazing tennis. He's really young. It's just the beginning of his career, and I don't like to compare players. It's him. He's going to be a great player, for sure. Where, I have no idea.  
   
 Q. ATP said it still could be considering more punishment for Nick. I wonder what you think is appropriate punishment? What do you think would be deserved? Suspension?   
STAN WAWRINKA: I honestly think I'm not the person who can decide what he deserve or not. I'm confident with the ATP. I think they know what they are doing. They're gonna do the right thing. Doesn't matter what's gonna be, I will be behind that. That simple.   
As I say, I'm dealing with all the shit and I'm trying to put away as much as I can.  
   
 Q. Do you feel like you're making progress just emotionally getting closer to that, or is it still difficult?  
STAN WAWRINKA: It's quite ‑‑we still talk a lot about it. For sure it's quite fresh, so we'll see. I think for me it was good to play some doubles, to have fun on the tennis court with Leander. He's a great guy and I really love to play with him.   
For me it's a really important match today to win it. Not the way I play, not the way I am on the court, but the way I fight with little energy that I have. That's the most important.  
   
 Q. You feel like it's going to have an effect on your preparation for NewYork at this point?  
STAN WAWRINKA: No. I know how myself. I know how I get ready for Grand Slam. I know how I deal with everything. I'm sure I'm going to be ready for US Open.  
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.  
STAN WAWRINKA: No more English question? No, I'm asking because I don't want to talk about it anymore, so let's finish it today. That simple.  
   
 Q. Other players talking amongst themselves, wondering in general if there has been support from other players or shared anger? What has been...   
STAN WAWRINKA: Obviously a lot of support. A lot of anger in the locker room for what he did. As I say, I think as a player, you realize more what he did and what's the consequence for private life, for person involved in that case.   
That's not just few words, but with one sentence he can touch a lot and hurt a lot of people. I had a lot of support in the locker room, that's for sure.   
   
 Q. His brother was here watching his first‑round match. Do you think he should be banned from ATP tournaments?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Good for him if he wants to be there. I have no thought about him. There is nothing. I know he has no access in the player area, no credential, but nothing to talk about him.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT