WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2015
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WAWRINKA/J. Sousa
  6‑2, 7‑5, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   I'm curious about the physics of how you do this.   You don't have the flexibility of a Djokovic, your explosive in a different way than some of the other guys.   Can you talk about where that power comes from?   Is it trunk rotation?
STAN WAWRINKA:   I keep a very good fitness trainer, Pierre Paganini since more than ten now we've been working together.   We have a specific plan.   I'm really happy with what he did with my body and the way he push me to get that strong on the tennis court now. 
I think my power is coming from my feet and upper body, abs and back.   You can see when I put my feet early, the power is really stronger.   It's not completely from the arm, but it's really whole the body. 

Q.   What did you feel during the match?   What was the part of his game that gave you a little bit more trouble?
STAN WAWRINKA:   I think for me it's the first one.   In general, I'm happy with my game.   I'm happy the way I play.   Winning in three sets, it's really good. 
It's a little bit always the same, the first one.   You need to be ready, adapt a little bit your game, feel the condition. 
I was a little bit slow in the reaction when he was serving, returning.   I was hesitating a lot with my game, with what I'm going to do, how I'm going to return, slice or block.   That's where I was struggling a little bit. 
In general I'm happy with the first match.   Important to get through and be there. 

Q.   Tell us a little bit more about your positioning while returning.   You have a specific way of positioning yourself when you return on clay courts.   You're almost the opposite of everybody else.   Here you're in a different position. 
STAN WAWRINKA:   It depends a little bit how I feel the day.   But I like to block first serve, that's for sure, take it early, take out all the time from the opponent.   And second serve, if I can give myself some time, I'm moving well, I know I can put a lot of pressure already. 
So in general, it depends a little bit how I feel.   For sure it's completely different grass than clay.   But here also I have few option also to go a little bit more for the line and to put a little bit more pressure even from the first serve. 

Q.   Has your mentality switched at this Wimbledon from previous attempts where now you might be expected to progress to the latter stages and possibly win it?
STAN WAWRINKA:   The mentality is the same as last year.   I know I'm playing well.   I have a lot of confidence.   It's a new year, new tournament.   We all start from zero.   We need to win match after match.   We take match after match if we want to go through and go further in the tournament. 
I'm confident with myself, but I'm really careful with how mentally I get ready for every match. 
So far I'm really happy with the first one today.   In general I feel good.   I know where is my game.   I feel ready for the next one. 

Q.   You're now one of the big four. 
STAN WAWRINKA:   No. 

Q.   You're not?
STAN WAWRINKA:   There is only four guys. 

Q.   You're one of the big four, yes, now?
STAN WAWRINKA:   Why? 

Q.   Because everybody in tennis talks about the four. 
STAN WAWRINKA:   If it's the big four, it's the four players.   It's already taken.

Q.   Why aren't you already one of them?
STAN WAWRINKA:   I don't have the same result as them.   I'm not as strong as them.

Q.   Current form, though, surely. 
STAN WAWRINKA:   The big four, it's not what happen in this year.   It's what's happened the past 10 years.   That's why they're much better than everybody. 

Q.   If it was this year, are you one of the big four?
STAN WAWRINKA:   That's a lot of question.   I personally really don't care.   For me the big four always mean the big four.   They're good where they are because they did so much for the tennis and they were so strong during more than 10 years.   They deserve to be the big four and they will always be the big four.   That's for me how I see it. 

Q.   You mentioned the other day that your game has clicked on grass.   What fell into place for you?   Why has your game improved on grass over the earlier years when you struggled?
STAN WAWRINKA:   Because I grew up on clay.   Until 19 years old, I played only clay court tournaments, challengers, satellites, juniors.   I never play on faster surface.   I had the game, when I was feeling comfortable when I had time only.   I was a bit slow to move.   I need time in the game. 
Year by year, little by little, I start to improve my game.   I start to play better on hard courts.   I start to play better on indoor.   Also on grass.   I always try to improve my tennis.   Always try to find solution to play better. 
Now that's my best in my level, I feel also good on grass. 

Q.   What are the main adaptations in your game that maybe you didn't feel comfortable with on grass before?
STAN WAWRINKA:   When I start, it was a little bit too fast for my game.   I was late in my game.   I was unconfident with what I was doing.   I was loving the clay because I had time from the baseline, for long rally.   On grass, that is really not. 
Even now if we change a little bit, you need to be confident with your game.   You need to stay on the line.   You need to play aggressive.   You need to stay with the opponent. 
Now I just feel good with that. 

Q.   You won admiration for your shorts almost as much as your tennis at the French Open.   Would you welcome any change to the all‑white rule at Wimbledon?
STAN WAWRINKA:   I'm good with that.   I'm good with the history of Wimbledon playing all white.   For sure you cannot have any color at all.   But I'm okay.   I don't mind. 

Q.   Richard Krajicek on the radio thought you had a problem with your thigh?
STAN WAWRINKA:   No, no.   I'm physically really good.   No problem.   Thank you.

Q.   Severin said that you're the barbecue king here in Wimbledon.   Can you confirm or deny that?
STAN WAWRINKA:   You need to ask people who already had the chance to try it.   But it's a nice place to do, and a good time to do some barbecue.   That's for sure. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT