QATAR EXXONMOBIL OPEN
January 10, 2020
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. MOUTET/S. Wawrinka   
3-6, 7-5, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   
 Q.  Tough luck.  
STAN WAWRINKA: Thank you.   
 Q.  You lost in the final in 2008 to Andy Murray. All these years, would you blame it on luck? And in the match, would you say that you took it a little easy in the second set?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Lazy? I hope not.   
But, no, I think it was generally good first set. It was not easy match for sure. I think he played really well when he needed. He was really being aggressive.   
I had some little hesitation in the end of the second set and the beginning of the first set. I didn't serve well. I did two mistake each time. I got broken on easy shot and that make a big difference, and then I was a little bit passive.   
He was dictating more than me and that made the difference.   
 Q.  We don't know him well. What does he do so well? He changes the spins a lot, slices, comes to the net. What was good about him?  
STAN WAWRINKA: He's a leftie, left-hander. He feel the game really well. He has a good touch. He's mixing a lot. I think he's moving really fast. He anticipate well.   
Today he won because he was more aggressive. He was trying to be really the aggressive player. And I wasn't good enough today to push him back and that's made the difference.   
But, yeah, he's a young player and great player.   
 Q.  So this defeat, does it really affect your season? Your chances for the season? How are you looking at it? You put this behind as just another defeat and you'll move on from here, or how are you looking at the season from now?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, it's just the beginning of the season. In general was good tournament, I would say, for many reason.   
Today for sure I would have preferred to win and play in final tomorrow, but I played well this morning or this afternoon. Lost tonight.   
But there's many positive things to take. I think in general I'm playing well and moving well. Now I'm going to leave to Australia, one week there to get ready, and hopefully do some big things there.   
 Q.  Just looking ahead, it's an Olympic year. Is that something you're particularly eyeing? And also on that, can we expect to see you play with Roger again?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, Olympic always been something, something important. Is this year in Tokyo during the summer, so for sure that's something I'm interested to play.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT