AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 17, 2015
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. ANDERSON/S. Wawrinka
  7‑6, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Do you have any message for the men that invented tiebreaks?
STAN WAWRINKA:   Not my day with tiebreaks.   It's been so far some good tiebreaks since the beginning of the year.   Sometimes it's not your day.
I think singles was in general good level.   I did one big mistake on the set point, but that's it.   In general I think he was playing really well.   He was going for his shots and going for the line without really a plan.   Just going and putting a lot of pressure.
Knowing that it was only my second match in general, I think I was trying my best, trying to stay with him, trying to fight, trying to get any opportunity.   I had two set points in the first set.   I did great return, serve and volley really well.   And then I missed the second return.
Yeah, in general, you have to accept sometimes.   I think he just played well.   I was trying to find solution but didn't.   Maybe didn't return great, but he was serving big.

Q.   He had 22 aces past you under two hours.   Must be a bit of an ordeal?
STAN WAWRINKA:   Yeah, normally I always find solution, at least to touch the ball and make them play.   But today I didn't find any great return.   He was serving big, and especially really close from the line, really touching the zone.   It was tough for me.
I was maybe a little bit slow in reaction, maybe a little bit, for sure, tired mentally to always try to get to the ball.
But it's like that.   I still think I can take some positives of the match, because in general I was trying to stay with him, trying to be positive all the time and trying to get the win but didn't happen.

Q.   He's got a good recent record against you.   Why do you think that is?   Is it the serve in particular?
STAN WAWRINKA:   I don't know.   Maybe just like he just like to play me.   If I look today and last year three matches, he was just going for his shots and, yeah, he didn't have some up and down against me.   Today was just really focused, solid.   I was expecting him to miss a few shots, especially when it's important, especially when you push him.
It didn't happen today.   He deserved to win.

Q.   How big were your hopes of doing really well here, having just come from Roland Garros?
STAN WAWRINKA:   When I come here, I'm not like, Okay, I'm going to try to make final and win the tournament coming here.   I had only a few days of practice.
But I was playing well, and I know how it is.   It can be really quick.   Played a good match yesterday.   Today I was really close.   You never know what happens.   You win one more match, make quarter and make your way to still be here on Sunday.
When I arrive in the tournament, I'm not like, okay, my goal is to make final.   I just take it every match.   I know I can do it but it didn't happen this time.

Q.   I know after the French obviously you said there is still a gap between where you thinkyou sort of don't belong in the Big 4.   When Kevin was in here he says he's thinking what you did the last year and a half you deserve to be one of the best in the world.   Maybe the time to hear that isn't when he has just beaten you, but is it nice that people are at least putting you in that bracket of caliber of opponent?
STAN WAWRINKA:   Yeah, it's always nice when a player talk well with you.   But for me there is not much to say.   For sure if you look last two years, I'm No. 4 in the world with two Grand Slams, Masters 1000, one 500, two or three 250, one Davis Cup, so that's amazing.
But when we talk about the Big 4 it's been 10 years and they are doing great result, amazing results.   So again, I'm not trying to be Big 4 or big 5, whatever.   I'm trying to do the best I can.   I'm trying to enjoy what I'm doing and trying to still win some big tournaments.   That's all I care.
That's why I respect so much what they did in the past.   That, you will never change, what they achieved, all four.

Q.   Do you think it's not something you could do to get to that level or obviously... 
STAN WAWRINKA:   First, it's not important, and second, how do you put the level?   How do you put the results?   When you gonna say, Okay, I'm part of the big 5, when you gonna say, I don't know. 
It's not my job.   It's your job to find out what is the result you have to achieve to say, Okay, it's part of that group or not.   For me, again, for me I still think I'm far from them, but again, it's not important.
I'm not trying to be close.   I'm trying to win as much as I can.

Q.   In terms of Wimbledon preparations, what will you do now?
STAN WAWRINKA:   I'm going to practice hard, for sure.   I am trying to find the right balance between resting and practice.   I'm quite hard mentally.   Physically, also, but especially mentally. 
I try to find a good balance between some time off and some great practice.   But I have time.   I think it was really good to come here, to have some matches, to have some directly grass court test of my level.
So I think I play well.   I have now 10 days to be ready for Wimbledon, and I'm sure I'm going to do the best I can to be fit for and ready for the first match.

Q.   Are you going to stay in London or go back to Switzerland?
STAN WAWRINKA:   Normally I'm going to stay in London.   I have to practice on grass.   I have many things to do, also.   I'm going to stay in London and take that 10 days to work on my game and be ready for Wimbledon.

Q.   You always say you don't go into a Grand Slam expecting to win.   Who do you think of the others would you see as the favorites to win Wimbledon this year?
STAN WAWRINKA:   I put Novak, Murray, and Roger.   For me, that's the three favorites.

Q.   In that order?
STAN WAWRINKA:   You want an order?   I put Novak, Roger, Murray. 

Q.   You just played your doubles match with Dimitrov.   What's your relationship with Grigor like?
STAN WAWRINKA:   Great relationship.   We play already last year doubles.   We are good friends on tour, practice as much as we can.   And, yeah, it's always fun to play with him, to talk doubles, tennis, anything else. 

Q.   What do you think are his strengths? 
STAN WAWRINKA:   His... 

Q.   His strengths.   What is he very good at? 
STAN WAWRINKA:   Playing tennis, that's for sure (smiling).

Q.   That sums it up?
STAN WAWRINKA:   That's it.   You have to ask him what he likes and what he's doing.   I'm not here to tell you what the others are doing. 

Q.   You won two of the four slam titles.   Does that mean you view Wimbledon a little differently? 
STAN WAWRINKA:   Not in that way.   More in the way that I'm already having an amazing year.   So maybe I still ‑‑I still want more, still trying to do the best I can and trying to do as much as I can to improve and to have great result, but maybe I take it with a little bit less pressure because I have already ‑‑I'm doing already something that I didn't expect this year, so maybe in that way, yes, but I'm not thinking about getting one more Grand Slam or something else.

Q.   Do you still view grass as the most difficult surface?
STAN WAWRINKA:   Most difficult, yes, because I have less time on the grass court.   That's it. 
But as I said until last year, I still think I can play my best tennis on grass.   But grass is a little bit different.   You don't have as many tournaments. 
Maybe also the draw can change a lot on grass because you have few players that really play well on the grass and you don't want to play them.
But it's always the same.   I still think that I can play my best game.   If I can play well at the beginning of Wimbledon, I can do a great job.   Last year for me was already amazing Wimbledon, losing to Roger during a great match, beating Lopez, beating some great guys.   I was happy with the way I was playing.

Q.   Your Wimbledon, your favorites, what leads you to that order? 
STAN WAWRINKA:   To that? 

Q.   Just interested. 
STAN WAWRINKA:   Novak is No. 1.   He's been playing so well since last years now and especially this year.   I'm sure after losing French Open final he wants more, he wants to come back and win the next big one.
So he won last year.   We all know that when he's playing his best tennis he's really good at it.
If I put Roger, I'm seeing the way he's playing.   Even if he lost few matches this year, I'm sure he's going to be ready for the grass.   He loves to play on the grass.   It's always tough to beat him.   Last year I was really close.
Also, I think with him, with his confidence, if he can get through the first week or something, playing well, then he's going to be tough to beat.
And Andy because he loves grass, playing at home, already won Wimbledon.   He's playing really well this year.   Just that's just what I think.

Q.   Can you identify similarities to your performance today compared to last times playing Kevin and what do you see differently?
STAN WAWRINKA:   It's tough to really see what I should change when I play against him.   I still think today was in general a good match.   I tried everything I can. 
I think he was playing really well, and it's never easy to play him when he's playing like that, when he's serving big and really going for his shots. 
I don't think I did many big mistakes, so he, in general, I think I just need to push him more.

Q.   You lost to him four times.   Talk about your record against him. 
STAN WAWRINKA:   I never really look about the statistic when I go into the match.   If not, you will never start to beat the top guys ‑ Roger, Rafa, Novak‑ after losing 10, 20 times against them (smiling). 
It's better not to look too much at the statistic when you go up to the match. 

Q.   Is there anything you're going to do to treat yourself?   Give yourself a day off, anything in London before Wimbledon?
STAN WAWRINKA:   To be ready for Wimbledon, so for me that's the most important.   I'm sure I'm going to have some days off after Wimbledon, so I need to do the best I can to be ready for Wimbledon.   That's all that matters for me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT