WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2015
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   What's it like coming here having just won a Grand Slam?   Does it feel any different?   
STAN WAWRINKA:   Well, I feel good.   I just feel good.   I'm happy with what I did two weeks ago.   No, I feel great.   For sure, a lot of confidence in my game.   I feel great on the practice court.   That's it.   
But since few days, I have to focus on the next one, on Wimbledon, starting Monday, trying to be ready for that.   I've been practicing quite good since two weeks now, since I arrive for the Queen's.   I'm happy with the way I got my preparation.   
   
 Q.   When Roger Federer or Rafael Nadal walks down the street, everybody knows them.   What is it like for you?   
STAN WAWRINKA:   Depends where (smiling).   
No, for sure, since three years is different.   It's not like I can do always what I want.   I need to just be a little bit careful with where I'm going if I don't want to be bothered.   
It's been okay.   In general, people are really nice.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel about being a more famous person?  
STAN WAWRINKA:   I feel okay.   It's part of my job.   The reason why it's like that is because I've been playing my best tennis and winning some big tournament.   That's what I'm trying to do every day.   
I'm trying to be the best I can in my tennis.   So that's part of the game.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel more comfortable on grass now than you have done in the past coming here?   
STAN WAWRINKA:   Yeah, every year it's been better for me.   I think since three years now, I feel really good.   Last year I find the way how to play my best tennis.   Playing great tournament, losing to Roger in quarter.   I was happy with the way I was playing in general.   
Again, I think I still feel grass is good for me.   It's important to be ready, to feel good physically, to move well.   So far it's been okay.   
   
 Q.   Have you sensed any difference in the way that other players are treating you after winning two slams?  
STAN WAWRINKA:   Not really.   Not really.   Except saying, Congratulations.   We all focus on what we doing.   We all here to play our tournament, to win matches, and that's it.   
   
 Q.   Are you surprised by how much of a fashion icon you became after the French Open?   
STAN WAWRINKA:   It's not me, my shorts (laughter).   
   
 Q.   You wore them.   
STAN WAWRINKA:   Yeah, but, no, I think it's a fun story, for sure.   I think it was great that I won the French Open, because at least it's a positive story for my shorts.   
But that's it.   Now we back to normal, back to all white, back to changing my color for the next month of the year.   
   
 Q.   Are we going to see similar shorts in the future, in the U.S., or is this a one‑time thing?  
STAN WAWRINKA:   I honestly think it was supposed to be something similar to the US Open, the color.   But they have a change in mind and they might change completely.   
   
 Q.   After the French Open, you said that you felt, despite it being your second slam, you weren't as strong as the big four players.   Do you still feel that way and why?  
STAN WAWRINKA:   Yeah, because first I'm not trying to compare myself with them.   I think what they achieved the past 10 years, it's amazing.   They've been winning everything, again, since more than 10 years.   That's the only reason why I'm not putting myself there.   
They did much more than what I did.   It's been only two years that I've been winning some big title.   So in the past two years, yes, I've been winning two slams, one Davis Cup, one Masters 1000, one 500.   If you look at them, they've been here in semifinal, final, winning big titles.   So for sure I'm not part of them.   
   
 Q.   The body issue photo shoot is coming out very soon.   Can you talk about that experience, why you wanted to do it?  
STAN WAWRINKA:   It was a great experience.   It was a great challenge for me.   Took me a while to accept it.   It was interesting shooting.   It was different.   
I did it because they do it in a good way.   They want to put athlete first, sport first, sport body.   I think in general they find a good way to do some nice picture.   That's the only reason why I accepted.  
   
 Q.   Are you nervous for the time it's coming out?  
STAN WAWRINKA:   I was nervous for the photo shoot.   For that, it wasn't easy for me.   
But we'll see.   You know, we'll see what's going to come out from that.   
   
 Q.   Can you comment a bit on the different experience that this tournament is in the sense that you're renting a house in the neighborhood?   
STAN WAWRINKA:   Sorry?   
   
 Q.   Are you renting a house in the neighborhood?  
STAN WAWRINKA:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   Can you comment on that experience, being close.   
STAN WAWRINKA:   For me, that's what I like here.   Normally I'm on grass for the month, because I've been here for Queen's also.   I enjoy that moment with my physio, with my coach.   I love to cook.   
You know, we traveling all year, 10 months a year, being in the hotel room, going down for breakfast, sleeping in the small hotel room.   
To have a bit a house for one month for me, I think it's great.   I really enjoy it.   To walk to the court, it's the best thing you can have in a big city like London.   
   
 Q.   What has given you the most belief when you're on the court, playing the best people in the world?   What has made you know that you could beat them?  
STAN WAWRINKA:   The fact that I already did it, and the way I know I can find my game.   Even sometimes I don't start well or don't play my best tennis, I know that one moment I can feel the click and say, Now I feel relaxed, now my game is there, now I'm going to go for it.   
I'm strong enough with my tennis to beat them.   Also mentally I'm strong enough to stay with them and to finish the match.   That's the way I believe in myself.   
   
 Q.   How did you get there?   
STAN WAWRINKA:   Well, with a lot of practice, a lot of hard work.   I'm 30 years old now.   A lot of experience.   A great team around me.   My fitness coach more than 10 years, who is more than my fitness coach, he help me so much mentally.   Also in the tennis part.   Also with Magnus since two years trying to give me a lot of confidence.   
It's little detail, but at the end for me it was a big difference on the court.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT