ROLAND GARROS
June 7, 2015
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WAWRINKA/N. Djokovic
  4‑6, 6‑4, 6‑3, 6‑4 
  
STAN WAWRINKA:   It will be in the museum of Roland Garros.   You will see my shorts every day if you want.  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Well done.   Congratulations.   Is it more satisfying this win or the one in Australia?   That one was the first and this was the second.   Djokovic in great shape and almost unbeatable.   Does it make a difference?   What do you think when you lost the first set?   
STAN WAWRINKA:   It was a lot of questions, but it's just different.   I don't try to compare at all.   For me this one is really special for sure playing Novak here in final, the No. 1 player.   He won almost everything since beginning of the year.   
And especially the way I played and the way I finished the match, the way I was focused all the match, the way I changed the momentum.   I think at the beginning it's always the same when I play Novak.   He's the player who stay on the line and try to dictate always make the other uncomfortable.  
He was playing well.   He was fresh.   It was windy, not easy, but I know with me it can change quickly.   I know how to do.   I was trying to have longer rally, trying to play more deep, trying to play more aggressive from baseline, and little by little I start to be the other player inside the court.   
That's the way I have to play if I want to beat him.   I'm still surprised the way I played, because I think I played amazing today.   I was really nervous, but I didn't really choke.   I was always going for my shot, always going for the right play.   
I'm really happy with the trophy tonight.   
   
 Q.   What are you trying to tell us about the shorts?   
STAN WAWRINKA:   Nothing.   I don't say anything anymore.   (Smiling.)   Then I get booed on the court.   
It's just like everybody talk about that shorts since I put it.   I quite like it.   I enjoy it, that shorts.   Apparently I'm the only one.   (Laughter.)  
It was just like that because I know a lot of people talk about it, and it's quite funny that it won the French Open.   
   
 Q.   I asked you before, last year you left Roland Garros as a loser in the first round.   You changed your program.   But still, how amazing is it to be here with the trophy?   When did it start to creep in like, Hey, I can beat the best on clay?   Why not?   
STAN WAWRINKA:   It is amazing, for sure.   I still have problem to really realize that I won the French Open, because it's always the same after winning big title.   You are a little bit lost in your mind.  
It's great feeling, but in the same time you need to realize what I did.   I'm proud of winning tonight against‑‑ today against Novak.   He's such a tough player to play, especially in final.   I have a lot of respect to him and his team.   He's a great friend.   
I know he's looking for that title.   I hope he will get one one day because he deserve one.   Again, for me it was amazing feeling to play against him and to win today.  
   
 Q.   As you just said, he desperately wanted that title.   After match point when you met at the net, you appeared to have a long, long conversation with him.   Was it an almost apology about taking away the prize that he really wanted?  
STAN WAWRINKA:   Well, we are really good friends and we practice almost like every week and almost every tournament.   I have a great relation with his team.  
I have a lot of respect for what they are doing since many years, you know.   He's the No. 1 and winning so many titles.   
Again, it's not like that ‑‑ I'm really happy to have won it, but for sure I know he's looking badly and desperately for this title.  
I'm sure he's going to get one one day because he's so strong.   He's the best player so far.   Since two years now he's No. 1.   The way he was playing these two weeks was just amazing.  
   
 Q.   Today with this win at this tournament, does this feel like your tattoo coming to life?   Just sort of reflect on that, because it has been your philosophy.   I'm wondering too what Magnus said to you before going on to that court today.   
STAN WAWRINKA:   Just my career.   It's quite strange when I tell myself that I have a gold medal in Davis Cup and I have two Grand Slam.   Something quite amazing.   Never expect to be that far in my career.   Never expect to be that strong.  
We had a good talk with Magnus before the final.   I was feeling really relaxed yesterday and this morning until maybe 15 minutes before to go on the court.   Then I start to be really nervous and I start to tell myself, What the fuck is happening?   (Laughter.)  
I had a good talk.   He's always confident with myself.   He always find a good words to make me believe in myself and to go on the courts knowing and believing that I can beat the No. 1 player in a Grand Slam final.  
   
 Q.   Magnus told us that since Monte‑Carlo you have been a different player in terms of very dedicated in practice and feeling much better.   What changed for you and what clicked?   
STAN WAWRINKA:   That's true.   As I say many times arriving here since after Monte‑Carlo, we have a good block of preparation with my fitness trainer and also with Magnus.   
We had also a long talk after the tournament.   I don't know what's the click, it's just my career with some big up and big down sometimes.   
But I'm happy and I'm quite proud the way I react after two months really bad, really tough in my career.   Some bad result and not playing my best game.   But I try to put all the chance in my side, practicing really hard.   
Every day I give everything for the tennis, doing some sacrifice to be ready, to be there.   Even after losing Madrid I didn't think it's hard for Geneva.   I knew I was playing well.   That's the way I can give myself some chance to win some big tournaments.  
   
 Q.   You said that you managed to deal with your nerves very well.   On match point you serve an ace or you don't.   It's an inch away.   Was that hard to deal with?   
STAN WAWRINKA:   For maybe one second I suffer all the match, but then I realize that the ball was out and to focus on the next one.  
I was really nervous that game, for sure, because I knew I was serving for the match.   I was starting to think about the French Open winner, the trophy and everything.   
So just try to be focused.   I save a break point after that.   The thing is I think I was doing the right thing.   Even if sometimes he make backhand along line or winner, whatever, I was always keeping my line.   
That's the most important.   That's the only way I can give myself some chance to beat the top guys.  
   
 Q.   I know you put out statements earlier in the spring about your personal life, and often these things have a negative effect on players' career.   How happy are you that you were able to focus with everything else that's been going on with you and win this enormous title so soon after?  
STAN WAWRINKA:   Yeah, it's important when you're an athlete that you can put that mind on that person, on what are doing.   You have to do some sacrifice.   You have to work out.   You have to be relax in your mind.   When you are practicing and when you give everything, you have to try the way I had to focus on what you're doing.   
That's what I did so well.   Since after Monaco I find the balance between when I'm on the court, when I'm talking tennis, when I'm doing tennis, I'm doing it 100% without anything outside.  
I'm still surprised that in two months I can win the French Open, because I wasn't in good shape after Monaco.   It was tough, tough moment for me.   To say that now I won the French Open, it's something completely crazy.   
   
 Q.   We have seen you perform so well at the highest level.   What do you feel like you need to do to your game to bring it consistently on the tour level, too?  
STAN WAWRINKA:   I don't know.   (Smiling.)   I'm trying.   I'm trying that every tournament, but so far it's just me.   I'm not as strong as the Big 4.   They are winning everything.   
But I'm strong enough to win some big title sometimes during the years.   So I didn't find the way how to play my best game every tournament, but I'm still okay and satisfied with my career so far.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French.   
   
 Q.   Stan, two questions:   The Australian Open, Roland Garros, Olympic Games, Davis Cup, Masters 1000 of Monte‑Carlo, 100% success in the finals.   Do you have a trick?   Pierre Paganini was in the stands.   What can you tell us about him?   He's very discreet.   What do you think of him?  
STAN WAWRINKA:   For the past two years I have changed my approach.   When I go deep in the tournament I rarely put in a bad performance.   It's a final, and when it's a final, I feel confident.   I feel confident in my game.   
In the first rounds I know that I can get some confidence.   Last year at Wimbledon I lost in quarterfinals against Roger.   I know that I can lose, but when I reach the quarterfinals or the semifinals, most of the time I put in a good performance because I have some confidence building up when I step out on court.   So, in fact, I'm ready to beat the best players in the world.   
Back to Pierre Paganini.   He was there today.   Have been working with him for quite a number of years.   I can tell you that Pierre Paganini plays a key role in my career.   He's instrumental in the good results all along my career.  
He's a very discreet person.   He's a fitness coach who is a very smart, very good person.   I owe him a lot.   He helped me build my physical condition, my mental approach.   
   
 Q.   After Melbourne, do you think you are on par with the Big 4?  
STAN WAWRINKA:   As I told you earlier, I'm not as good as they are‑ I mean the Big 4.   But I'm quite good enough to win two Grand Slam tournaments.   I can beat them in major tournaments, in a semifinal, in a final.   But once again, the Big 4 will always be the Big 4.   
I don't want to be in comparison with them.   I want to make progress and strides.   I want to beat them.   That's all.   It is as simple as that.  
   
 Q.   What goes through your mind?   Have you come to terms with your victory?  
STAN WAWRINKA:   I feel calm, quiet, and relaxed.   These are strange feelings.   It's very difficult to describe.   It's very difficult to say what you feel.   A lot of emotions.   A lot of pride, as well.  
But it takes time to come to terms with that victory.   It's a second Grand Slam, but it's not always easy to digest.   It's very specific.   It's the epitome of my career, but it's very difficult to look back.  
   
 Q.   You were not among the favorites.   Don't you think that you're not enough recognized, your talent, that your tennis should be more recognized?  
STAN WAWRINKA:   No.   I'm very happy with that.   Last year I was among the favorites and I lost in the early rounds.   I was not among the favorites this year, but I was just behind a couple of favorites.   I knew that I played well.   I knew that I had to seize the opportunities.  
But once again, I can win some big tournaments from time to time, but the players who are in front of me have always put a good showing in the main tournaments.   But I'm not seeking more recognition, acknowledgement.  
   
 Q.   I talked to Gustavo Kuerten.   He mentioned different aspects, but he said the key to the match is the fact that Djokovic felt comfortable on his forehand side.   I mean, do you agree with that?   After Roland Garros are you going to use the same shorts or are you going to have new shorts?  
STAN WAWRINKA:   When Novak doubts, we know that the forehand is a weakness or can be a weakness, but I wanted to be in the match and wanted to gain the upper hand.   He was on the baseline, but I knew that I could make the difference because of my shots.  
I delivered sone powerful shots in the middle.   I wanted him to play lots of balls.   I wanted to put him on the wrong foot, and that was the key to the match.   I had to hit the ball very early and had to step in.   It made the difference.   
And regarding the pair of shorts, at Wimbledon I don't think that they will allow me to wear it.  
   
 Q.   In terms of your level of play, is it the best match of your career?   Were you surprised by the level of play?  
STAN WAWRINKA:   Of course there was a lot at stake during this match.   It is certainly one of the best matches of my career, if not the best.  
At the end of the second set I was under the impression that I was tired, and for me it was difficult to think that I would be able to hold good, but it was the same for Novak.   
We started to slump physically, but we both managed to fight very hard.   I'm very surprised at the way I finished the fourth set.   I was relaxed on my backhand side and I could hit some wonderful backhands.   
It's a rare feeling that you experience in a final against Djokovic.   It's a great feeling.  
   
 Q.   So you have won two Grand Slam titles, but were you afraid of being the guy who could have won only one Grand Slam?  
STAN WAWRINKA:   When you win a Grand Slam tournament it's incredible anyway.   Honestly, I didn't think that I could be in a position to win another Grand Slam tournament.  
So in the Australian Open I reached the semifinals, a five‑setter with Novak Djokovic.   So in a Grand Slam tournament it can go either way.   The first rounds are tough, but when you reach the quarterfinals and the semifinals, it's easier.   
Of course this year I had to play Jo in the semifinals and Novak in the final.   I have already beaten these players in other tournaments, so I knew it was possible to make it.   I won the Australian Open and now the French Open, so it's quite satisfactory.  
   
 Q.   With your win today and with your win in the Australian Open in 2014, the one‑handed backhand is ruling the roost.   So do you think that other players and young players will embrace the one‑handed backhand?   
STAN WAWRINKA:   That's what I hope.   But if you consider tennis today, there are lots of players with two‑handed backhands because conditions are fast.   I mean, with a two‑handed backhand you can return better; you can counter‑punch; you can block the ball, as well.  
But I'm very happy with my one‑handed backhand.   Dimitrov also has a very good one‑handed backhand.  
So what about the next generation?   I don't know if the next generation of players will have two‑handed backhands.   I'm not quite sure.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT