US OPEN
August 30, 2019
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. WAWRINKA/P. Lorenzi
6-4, 7-6, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Three sets, three hours. Quite a battle today. How did you feel?
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, I feel great. Really happy with the win. It was a good battle on the court. Important to win. I've done some better things on the court, but I was really happy fighting well, moving well. I'm really happy to get through that one.
Q. Could have quite the opponent next. What do you expect?
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, it's going to be a good match to watch tonight, for sure. We're going to see who is going to win, then I'm going to get ready for the next one (smiling).
Q. If it is Novak, surprised to see how many times you've played each other, 24 times.
STAN WAWRINKA: As many times I play Roger and Rafa. Those guys, they've been there since forever, winning every tournament. If you advance in some tournaments, you're going to face one of the three guys.
Yeah, played them a lot. Lost a lot.
Q. And two very big wins.
STAN WAWRINKA: Three (smiling).
Q. Sorry. What is it about playing Novak that sometimes brings out the very best in your game?
STAN WAWRINKA: I played him twice in final of Grand Slam. I was full confidence. I was playing well, moving well, at the top of my game. For sure I could only play the best tennis when it's the final.
Yeah, we practice so many times during those years together. As you said, played many times against each other. Is always difficult to play. There's something with him that when I get into my best game, I know that it's going to have some big rally, I'm going to play good tennis.
Again, I lost some tough ones also, some easy ones also. We'll see how I'm going to feel in two days.
Q. Have you practiced much with him this year?
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, I did. We practiced here the week before tournament. I don't know exactly this year, but we used to practice almost before every Grand Slam together. We always enjoy, we're good friends. It's always good practice, good level. It's always good for my tennis.
Q. How well do you feel like you're playing right now?
STAN WAWRINKA: I'm feeling good. I'm feeling good winning three sets today. I'm feeling good physically. I'm feeling good on the practice court. Today was not tennis-wise the best. Again, most important is to win. Those victories give me confidence for the next one.
Q. Do you remember when was the last time when you served more than 20 aces?
STAN WAWRINKA: No (smiling).
Q. Today was 24.
STAN WAWRINKA: Good.
Q. (Question citing many statistics regarding aces served in various matches.)
STAN WAWRINKA: It's a lot of numbers right now (laughter). I'm going to answer simple: I'm happy with my serve right now.
Serving well this year. Probably if I have to face Novak next one, I'm probably not going to put 20 aces. You have to serve differently, he's returning well. He's the best for that. You need to change a little bit the way you're serving, adapt a little bit.
Today, yeah, was really focused on it because it gave me a lot of points. I need it. Wasn't feeling the best from baseline all the time, so I needed to worry a bit more for the big serve.
Q. In general, do you think players on tour mostly play the same style as their personality or are there exceptions and does it matter or is it important?
STAN WAWRINKA: I don't know. It's tough to answer. I think it doesn't really matter, the personality and the game style.
Yeah, I think it match a little bit, for sure. If you look every player, it match a little bit the way they're playing and the personality outside the court. That's for sure.
At the end I still believe you need to be yourself on the court to play your best tennis. You need to be really honest with yourself. You cannot fake it too much if you want to play your best level.
Q. Can you think of any exceptions?
STAN WAWRINKA: Right now, no. I would have to think.
Q. You're a three-time Grand Slam champion. Should people be surprised or not surprised? Do you feel like you get the recognition? You've been playing in the shadows of Djokovic, Federer and Nadal. Do you feel people have overlooked you or they should be surprised?
STAN WAWRINKA: No, I think in general I'm quite happy where I am. I'm quite happy with the fans, the people. If I look when I arrive on the tournament, like here, when I come on the court, I'm really happy. I have a lot of support, a lot of fans. No, I have no problem with that.
Q. You have the best nickname in tennis in Stanimal. I read that Roger came up with that. Is that right?
STAN WAWRINKA: Yes.
Q. He told me today he doesn't have a nickname. Do you have one for him, something you call him?
STAN WAWRINKA: Not for the press (laughter).
Q. He also calls you the Diesel because it takes you a while to warm up.
STAN WAWRINKA: Sometimes. We have a lot of nickname. We've been spending a lot of time since we arrive on the tour with the Davis Cup, Olympic. Also we have many nicknames on the road.
Q. Can you tell us?
STAN WAWRINKA: No, sorry (laughter).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT