MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 15, 2015
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WAWRINKA/J. Monaco
  6‑1, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English. 

Q.   A difficult opening opponent being on clay.   How do you think you played?
STAN WAWRINKA:   I think I play a great match.   It's tough first round to play Monaco, but it's a typical clay court match.   So he is playing from the baseline. 
For me in general it's quite good because that gives me time to put my game.   I'm really happy with the start.   I had two last months really difficult with my game, with my confidence.   I was happy to change, to come on clay again.   The conditions are great here, so I'm happy with the first match. 

Q.   You're playing doubles, as well.   Did you choose to do that just to get more confidence on the surface here?
STAN WAWRINKA:   Yeah, it's the first tournament on clay.   I'm not playing next week.   For me it was good to play with a friend, to enjoy a little bit some tennis, to get more points, try to win few doubles.   Yeah, I always enjoy to play doubles. 

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French. 

Q.   Was it a good start for the season today? 
STAN WAWRINKA:   It was a good first‑round match.   Since I wasn't playing well in practice, I consider this match as a good one. 
Of course, there were ups and downs, but that's normal for a first match.   I'm satisfied with my level physically and mentally.   I was able to be aggressive. 
In the second set, where it was tighter, I was able to fight. 

Q.   You were saying you didn't play well in practice.   Did you have no expectations for this tournament? 
STAN WAWRINKA:   You can't say I have no expectations.   I always hope I will be able to play my best tennis.   The only thing you can do is fight and do the best you can with what you have on a given day. 
But today I'm happy with my level, I'm satisfied. 

Q.   You played extremely well last year on clay, here in particular where you won the title.   Do you feel pressure that you have to defend your title here?
STAN WAWRINKA:   It's always a pleasure to come back here.   Last year I had a fabulous week.   All the memories are coming back to me. 
But this is a new year.   I don't think about the points because I believe every year starts from scratch, and then as the year goes on, you see how your ranking is coming along. 
But I'm very pleased to play on clay again after playing badly during the last two hard court tournaments.   It's good for me to be able to think about something else and do something else with my game. 

Q.   What makes you more confident in your game on clay?
STAN WAWRINKA:   On clay you have more time to play.   I know I can sustain the rallies from the baseline.   I can overpower the opponent from the baseline.   I can move more easily, which helps me hit harder. 

Q.   It's difficult to know how much mental strength influences your game, but do you need to feel good mentally to be able to play your game?
STAN WAWRINKA:   I believe in tennis you need to put all the pieces together to play well.   But, of course, if I can see and understand the mistakes I'm making, and I can practice, it makes me more confident. 
Anyway, I am happy to play on clay again because I have a lot of ambitions for this season. 

Q.   Is it easier for you to go from hard courts to clay than the opposite?
STAN WAWRINKA:   Yes, indeed, it's easier for me to switch to clay because I spent many years playing on clay.   It's easier for me than for other players. 
The clay court season is short, unfortunately.   But I want to do well because it's a surface I like. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT