AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 26, 2015
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  S. WAWRINKA/G. Garcia-Lopez7-6, 6-4, 4-6, 7-6An interview with:STAN WAWRINKATHE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. You were up two sets and a break.  How do you explain the match changing after that?STAN WAWRINKA: That level, you can change quickly.  I did maybe two mistakes, then he start to play a little bit faster, a little bit more flat.  I start to be on my defensive a little bit too much.  Can be quick.  But, no, I'm happy to get through.  Was important to win that match again.  Is great for me to be in quarterfinal and get there, still there.Q. Do you remember last time you managed to come back like that in a tiebreak, down 0-5?STAN WAWRINKA: Not really.  I think one time in Shanghai against Kubot, was losing 6-2 also.  No, losing 5-0, was a bad start to the tiebreak.  At 6-2 I knew it was close to come back because I had the wind with me.  I had to focus on every point.  I knew if I was going to come back at 6-5, was going to get nervous.  I did a good passing shot, along line.  They always know I go along line.  It was a good one.  Nothing special.  Just focused point after point.Q. For how you are regarding your tennis career, how important is it for you to win another major?STAN WAWRINKA: I'm not focused to win a major.  I'm taking match after match.  I know it's difficult to do it.  It's amazing I already did one.  I'm happy to still be there playing great tennis so far.  I have the chance to play one more quarterfinal and see how it's going to go.Q. With you icing the elbow the other day, a patch today, what exactly is the problem?STAN WAWRINKA: Nothing serious.Q. Nothing serious?STAN WAWRINKA: No (smiling).Q. At this point we don't know who you're going to play in the next round.  Kei is leading two sets to Love.  Can you talk about that possible matchup with Kei.STAN WAWRINKA: He's a tough, tough player.  He improve a lot last year.  Played against him in US Open, five-set match.  Practice with him before the tournament.  He's a great shot maker.  He can make winner.  Doesn't matter, he's always taking the ball really early.  It's always tough to play against him.  He doesn't give you a lot of time.Q. Anything from the match at the US Open you can take from or is it starting at zero?STAN WAWRINKA: Start to zero again.  It's a new year.  Different condition if I have to play him.  And it will depends a little bit on me; the way I'm going to serve, the way I'm aggressive from the baseline.  If I can play heavy, if I can play my game, it's tough for him to always take the ball early.  We'll see how I'm going to deal with that.Q. A lot of the players say maybe this year the surface is faster than last year.  Do you feel the same way?STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, it's quite fast so far, for sure.  I play only during the day.  It's fast condition, fast court.  I think it's good.  We still had some great match to watch.  I think it's a great Australian Open so far for the people to watch.  So far I'm happy with the way it goes for me.Q. Nick Kyrgios is in a special situation that he has made two quarterfinals of slams but only won one match on the ATP Tour.  Not a typical tennis career.STAN WAWRINKA: He's really young.  He just start.  So maybe that's the reason also.  Don't know.  He's a really good player.  He's a great player.  He's going to be there for many years.  He's going to be at the top for sure.  He's going to have chance to win Grand Slam.  It will be interesting how he's going to play against Andy Murray.Q. After the four rounds now, how would you rate your level?STAN WAWRINKA: Good.  I'm happy the way I'm playing so far.  As I said before the tournament, I'm ready for the tournament.  My game is there.  I didn't spend too much energy on the court since one week.  Yeah, I'm happy to get the chance to play one more quarterfinal.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT