AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2015
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  S. WAWRINKA/M. Ilhan6-1, 6-4, 6-2An interview with:STAN WAWRINKATHE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. Must be very happy with the start.  Talk about the match.  How did you feel on court?STAN WAWRINKA: Happy.  First Grand Slam never easy, but happy the way I played today.  I feel great to come in the court.  I play some good tennis and I have confidence with my game in general.  That's what I did today.  It was not so hot.  A little bit humid, a little bit windy.  But, yeah, it was a good match.Q. Is it hard to keep the concentration up when you see the match is getting a little bit one-sided?STAN WAWRINKA: No, I know in Grand Slam it can be a long two weeks if you want to go far in the tournament.  You need to be focused on every match, every point.  Today I think was great.  Good start for me winning in three sets and playing some good tennis.Q. When you're so much on top in a match like that, do you have to experiment with your game or just concentrate on winning the game?STAN WAWRINKA: I concentrate.  I'm focused on winning the match.  But in the second set I was trying a little bit to be more aggressive, trying few things that I do maybe more in the practice.  But in general I'm here to win matches.  Doesn't matter the score.  So I try to focus for that.  I have enough time to practice if I want to try things.Q. Was that aggression during the double fault on set point in second set?STAN WAWRINKA: No, it was shocking.  It was just a double fault.  I don't think I was trying a big second serve.  I just made a bad second serve.Q. What do you think about the atmosphere today?  Did you feel that the audience gave you warm welcome as the defending champion?STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, it was great.  I was happy to be back on the court.  I can feel that I have a lot of support here, and it's always nice to come back like that and to feel the crowd behind you.  For sure it's great, but it's still the beginning of the tournament.  First round.  It's just one match, now I need to be ready for the next one.Q. Did you think back at all to last year, the last time you were on the court?STAN WAWRINKA: Not today.  You know, as I say, I am here one week.  I had time for that.  I'm ready for Australian Open, ready for new tournament to start.  That's the most important:  To be focused for that.  As I say, it can be a long two weeks.  Grand Slam are never easy.  You need to be focus on what you're doing.Q. Do you have a special place for your trophy at home?STAN WAWRINKA: I already said it's in a safe.  It's not at home yet.Q. So you can't watch it?STAN WAWRINKA: No, I'm traveling all the year, so I don't have time for that.  (Smiling.)


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT