AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2015
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. Do you still enjoy talking about what it's like coming here as the defending champion or is it already annoying you?STAN WAWRINKA: No, it's fine.  I didn't talk too much about that.  It's only bring me some great memories.  But for sure one day before the tournament, we all focus about what's going to happen this year, the new year.  I feel great coming here.  Been getting a lot of confidence, winning the first tournament of the year.  I feel ready to start.Q. When you look at the past year, what changed the most for you after the victory?STAN WAWRINKA: Well, it's been a crazy 2014 year for me, winning Grand Slam, Masters 1000, finishing with the Davis Cup trophy.  That's something amazing as a tennis player, something that you can only dream about it.  For sure it change a lot.  But, again, it's been one long year with some up and down.  Finishing No. 4, I'm really, really happy with that.  Now it's a new year.  Everybody start to zero again.  You have to be ready to play great all the year.Q. Do you think you can do it again here?STAN WAWRINKA: I not focused on that.  I'm not thinking myself.  I'm not putting my goal to win a Grand Slam.  I know I can do it, that's not the question.  But it's a long way for that.  For me most important is to be ready for the first match.  I know how is it.  I've been playing since so many years to know the deal.  You have to be ready, take match after match, and see where you can go.Q. Everybody talks about Roger's fitness.  Are you involved with him in some way?  Is your fitness in some way, the way you keep fit, connected to what he does?  What is the secret of your fitness?STAN WAWRINKA: With him, no.  But we share the same fitness trainer since many, many years.  I'm happy with mine.  I didn't get so many injury in the past 10 years.  I think it's about doing the right schedule.  I think I have an amazing fitness trainer who is part of my team since many years.  He's taking a lot of big decision in my career helping me, not only the fitness, but everything around the tennis.  Yeah, I'm happy in general the way I'm feeling on the court.Q. Is there one player that stands out as the most fit on tour, someone who is in the best shape?STAN WAWRINKA: No, it's tough to say.  For sure if you look the past few years, Novak is quite amazing in that way.  He's been really fit, finishing No. 1 few times, winning a lot of long, long match.  But, no, it's tough to say.Q. There is the potential you could play Novak.  Is that a match you would be looking forward to?STAN WAWRINKA: Not really.  It's too far (smiling).  It's honestly too far.  I check the draw.  I saw the draw.  I saw the seed.  I saw what could be my draw.  Really, I know how is it.  I have to win the first matches.  I have to get through the first week.  More I will win, better I will play.  So we'll see.  I'm quite happy the way I'm getting through the tournament, and excited to start again.Q. Coming back as the defending champion, the crowd loves a defending champion at the Australian Open.STAN WAWRINKA: That's perfect.Q. Would that be something that you'll be looking forward to, having the crowd on your side?STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, I hope so.  We'll see.  I hope you're right.  For sure I'm looking forward to being back on the court here.  After last year, it's going to bring me also some memories, some great feeling, I'm sure.  Again, then if you have the crowd on your side, it's always better.  But for that you also have to play good.  You also have to show what you have on the court.Q. You just took your third title in Chennai.  Are you on a bit of a winning streak at the moment?STAN WAWRINKA: It's only one week of the year, so it's not much.  I'm just happy with that.  I don't have so many title in my career.  Every title, it's something important for me.  To start the year like that, especially that I'm playing really well, I'm happy with the title already.Q. You got to spend some time with Li Na as defending champions.  Does she seem happy to you?STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah.  Was nice to see her.  Was nice to talk with her.  She's really nice girl.  She looks really happy.  For sure a big change for her after many years on the tour.  But I think she's quite happy.Q. You've got the 'Stan the Man' T-shirt on there.  Is that something you embrace, enjoy, or...STAN WAWRINKA: Don't know.  Looks nice or no (smiling)?Q. Yes.  Do you like the nickname?STAN WAWRINKA: Since last year, there are lot of nickname.  But 'Stan the Man' is the one who is coming back most of the time since many years already.  Yeah, I quite like it.  Few different things.  It's quite nice to change a little bit.Q. Do you see a favorite?  Obviously Rafa has his injury concerns.  Novak had a surprise result the other week.  Is there a clear favorite or is it open as it ever has been?STAN WAWRINKA: I will still put Rafa, Novak and Roger as the favorite of the tournament.  Maybe a bit more Novak.  Then you have to see.  I still think that Rafa, if he get through the first week, then he's going to be really dangerous.  It's not about his game, it's more about the confidence he get after few months out.  And, yeah, it's going to be interesting I think because you also have the young generation who is there trying to win a Grand Slam.  I think it's going to be an excited Australian Open.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT