AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2015
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  S. WAWRINKA/M. Copil  7-6, 7-6, 6-3  An interview with:  STAN WAWRINKA   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  Pretty tough match today for you.  Talk us through what made it so difficult in a way.  STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah.  It was quite tough match.  Happy to get through, especially in three sets.  Condition wasn't easy today.  Quite hot.  Really fast on the court.  And he was playing great.  He was serving big, putting lots of pressure.  Wasn't playing my best tennis, but I'm happy the way I fight today and the way I did with the match.   Q.  How much was the weather, the heat a facture today?  STAN WAWRINKA: Was the first hot day I think, especially after ten days with quite cold and rainy a little bit.  But for me doesn't change much.  I'm not -- I don't have big problem when it's hot like that.  It was just different condition.  Faster court.  Different, yeah, speed of the court.  That's make a little bit different match.   Q.  What do you think about your next opponent?  STAN WAWRINKA: He's a tough, tough player, lefty.  Love to play from the baseline in the same rhythm.  Love to use the speed of the ball.  It's going to be interesting match.   Q.  I don't know if you saw last night when Rafa was playing Tim, do you know what happened in the end?  STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, I saw the end of the match.  It was quite interesting match.  (Laughter.)   Q.  The fact that he gave Rafa another serve at that point in a match, is that a smart thing to do?  Is that something you think...  STAN WAWRINKA: I think it's great.  I don't know when I saw the match.  I think it's tough a little bit to serve also.  I think it was great for him to give back the point.  You don't see it so many times and it's great sportsmanship.   Q.  Would you do that?  STAN WAWRINKA: I don't know.  Let's see.  Yeah, I don't know.  You cannot answer that.  After four hours of match you don't know what's in your mind.  Sometimes you react just like that.  So it's not like you don't ask you that question when it's happening.  You just do it.  Hope so I will do it.   Q.  What did you think in general when you watched the match?  STAN WAWRINKA: In general?  I think Tim was playing really great tennis.  I think that's what you can expect from Rafa, especially at the beginning of the tournament after few months out of tournament, so many tough battle, big up and down.  I don't know what's happen with him physically.  But, yeah, I think, like I said before the tournament, if you get through the first week he's going to be really, really dangerous to win the title.  Let's see what's going to happen now.   Q.  The first two matches, how are you feeling within your own game?  Happy with where you are?  STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, I'm happy with my game in general.  To win two first matches in three sets, it's great.  I'm playing great tennis.  I'm practicing well, feeling well the ball.  As I say, if you want to get far in the tournament, it can be two long weeks.  So you need to be ready to have some up and down.  So far it's been good tennis.  I'm happy.   Q.  How is it compared to your experiences of last year?  STAN WAWRINKA: What?   Q.  How do you feel compared to this time last year?  STAN WAWRINKA: I don't know.  I don't compare from last year to this year.  Just a new Grand Slam.  It's been two matches now.  Going to be ready now for the next one, Jarkko.  I have one day off tomorrow where I can practice like I always do with my coach.  That's it.  Nothing compared to last year.   Q.  The feeling of coming into the tournament as defending champion hasn't changed anything about your preparation at all?  STAN WAWRINKA: No.  We already middle of the week, so it's too late to change something or to think about anything.  As I say, when you start the tournament you focus on the new -- on this tournament this year.  Again, all my focus are on what I'm doing and that's it.   Q.  You go to the same tournaments and same places every year.  Is there anything in particular that you always have to do when you come to Melbourne?  STAN WAWRINKA: Not really.  Win matches.  (Laughter.).  that's it.  I'm happy to come back.  There's many things I love to do every year, but there is not one thing that I have to do it.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT