THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 3, 2019
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. OPELKA/S. Wawrinka
7-5, 3-6, 4-6, 6-4, 8-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Tell us what it's like playing a guy that size.  Serves so big.
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, for sure it's not easy.  You know you're going to have not a lot of chance to break.  But I think was a tough match to lost, that's for sure.
I had some chance.  I start a little bit slow.  I was a bit hesitating, not really moving well enough.  Start to play way better, I had some chance in the fourth set.  I could have made better.
At the end he went for it.  He went bigger than me and he deserve to win.
Q. There's been talk about how quick or slow the courts are playing.  How did you find it?
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, I don't find a big difference since last year.  You have time to play on the court, that's for sure.  Again, it's grass court.  Different bounce, lower bounce.  You have to move differently.
I don't see a big difference since last year.
Q. You said in the past that you were quite keen to get all Grand Slam titles.  You're going to be 35 coming to Wimbledon next year.  Do you think it's a pipe dream now that you can hold this as well?
STAN WAWRINKA: I never said I was ready to win Wimbledon.  I said that was my goal.  I come every year with the challenge to play the best I can.  I play two times quarterfinal.  If not, I lost first round, second round.  I know how tough it is to win a Grand Slam.
I'm really happy with everything I've achieved all my career by winning three Grand Slam in the same era of the big four.  Yeah, today I'm disappointed to have lost that match, but it is what it is.
Q. You obviously faced guys like Isner, Karlovic in the past.  How do you have to change your game for the tall opponent?
STAN WAWRINKA: At the end you have to always focus.  I have to always focus on what I'm doing on the court.  Against those big server, you know you're not going to have a lot of chance.  You know you need to be sharp, you need to be a little extra aggressive.  You get under pressure a little bit more.
Yeah, I played them a few times.  First time I was playing against him today.  As I say, I had some chance in the fourth set.  I felt that I was starting to play really well.  I should have break him or at least take the lead.
At the end he was there being more aggressive.  He deserved to win.
Q. How important has consistency been for you in your career, before your surgery and coming back, and again now?  To go deep into the draw week in and week out, how important has that been to you?
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, like every player, you always want to go as far as you can in tournament.  I think before my surgery I was really consistent, finishing top five a few years in a row, playing some big tournaments, going far there.
Again, now it's been a bit different.  I'm really happy the way I'm playing.  I'm not thinking about the full season, what I want to do every tournament, week after week.  I'm just trying to go day by day, focusing on what I want to improve, what I want to achieve.
Hopefully I can keep playing well.  I think I'm playing great tennis.  Today it's a tough loss, that's for sure.  But now it's just a tennis match.  The season is really long.  There is a lot of tennis to play.  I'm excited for the rest of the year.
Q. I saw in your match you gave a little hug to a line judge.  Can you tell me what that was about?
STAN WAWRINKA: I don't know.  I was a bit too far to return a serve.  I think I went against her, so I was sure she had some pain and was not happy, so I gave her a little hug.
Q. Novak Djokovic gave an interview talking about Justin Gimelstob, defending him.
STAN WAWRINKA: Right now I am not in the mood to talk about that.  Sorry.
Q. On the match, do you think players of this sort of size, are we going to see more and more of that in the coming years?
STAN WAWRINKA: No, I don't think.  I think we've been thinking about that since 10 years maybe now.  I think there is always some player like that.  I don't think it's going to go on in that direction.  You look at the top 20, top 30, the size of the player, it's been more similar since many years now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT