BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
October 30, 2014
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. ANDERSON/S. Wawrinka
  6‑7, 7‑5, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please. 

Q.   Stan, when a match is so tight it's difficult to find an explanation, but at 5‑4, 30‑Love, what happened?
STAN WAWRINKA:   The points disappeared quickly.   But it's exactly that:   tight matches like this are decided by only a couple of points.   I did everything I could to serve well with the new balls, but unfortunately that game escaped me.
I didn't take enough time before serving between the points.   I missed a backhand, I believe.   Things went too fast. 
When you don't have enough victories under your belt, it's more difficult, but I thought I was playing well.   I made good choices, especially during the first set.   I was quite aggressive.   I was able to fight and reach the tiebreaker. 
So once again I'm extremely disappointed, especially when I was serving with new balls and I had match points.   Now I can draw the lessons from this.

Q.   Of course you will go London without many victories under your belt.   Do you believe before that you will have time to get your confidence back or something?
STAN WAWRINKA:   Well, London is a different tournament.   It's a round robin format, so whatever happened before, this is always a tournament we take a bit differently.
I will have time to rest and practice a lot just to be ready for this tournament.   We've seen in the past it's a sort of different tournament, so we need to be fresh and we need to be ready and we need play well from the start and try to get some victories to qualify. 
It's a round robin.   The good thing is I have experience.   I played this tournament before.   I just concentrate on what I'm doing, and i hope I will be fit to be there. 

Q.   You know how people are.   They are worried about what is happening to you.   Are you going to be able to win again.   But you always say for the Masters and the Davis Cup there is no worries; is that right?   Everything is fine?
STAN WAWRINKA:   I can't say everything is fine because I'm not winning many matches, but there is nothing much I can do about it.
I can just do what I've been doing.   I'm not going to change my racquet or change my strings just because I'm not winning matches right now. 
I know what I'm missing.   I would need to make better choices in the right moments, in the important moments.   Yesterday was a good match; today I was close.
I should have won.   I just rushed.   In the end I made stupid mistakes, but I'm not panicking.   There is in reason for panicking.   It's the end of the season.   I'm still Top 4 in the world and I have a Masters to play, a Davis Cup final on clay, which will be totally different from usual tournaments. 

Q.   Besides the lack of confidence, you've been experiencing many new things this year:   becoming a player among the top 5 and all this.   Many ups and downs. 
STAN WAWRINKA:   Yes, it was a very important year.   But as I said, I had ups and downs that were very high or very low.   This is how this year was. 
But I wouldn't change anything compared to any other year of my career.   I played bad matches, I lost first round sometimes, I didn't play well lately, but I can still play well in the Masters win the Davis Cup and the year will be fabulous. 

Q.   You were up 30‑Love and you lost that game.   Your physio threw the bottle on the ground.   What did they say to you after?
STAN WAWRINKA:   We didn't talk about it yet. 

Q.   Are you very sick or can we expect a Tweet with your socks next week?
STAN WAWRINKA:   Well, on Monday I went to see the doctor.   Am I very sick?   This is part of the end of the season.
Whether you're going to see my dirty socks, I would say no rather.   Sorry about that. 

Q.   Is it possible to have friends among the top 5?   I know you were good friends with Jo for a long time.   But since both of you are competitors, has your relationship changed?
STAN WAWRINKA:   Of course it's possible to have friends.   I get along very well with Roger, so it works.   Apart from Roger I have friends.   I get along very well with Novak, Rafa, many players. 
Now, do we see each other outside of tennis?   I don't see them all, but some of them, yes. 

Q.   So with this inconsistent season, wouldn't the explanation be that it was due to the Grand Slam?   Roger, Rafa said, He's sort of taking in this victory in the Grand Slam.   It'll come back.   Do you see it like this? 
STAN WAWRINKA:   Managing this victory, I don't know.   Of course it took a couple of months after Melbourne to take it in.   There are many things around this also, and this made the year a bit difficult.   Of course winning the Australian Open didn't mean I would win all the other tournaments, of course.
In spite of the difficulties I have right now to win several matches in a row, it's still positive because I'm Top 4.   That's the best year I ever dreamt of, so...
Very simply, I'm trying to do things the way I think I have to and trying to finish the year as best as I can with the Davis Cup and the Masters. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT