BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 12, 2014
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/S. Wawrinka
  6‑3, 6‑0 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   Looks like in terms of number of games, it was your worst defeat on the ATP.   Do you have any explanation why matches have been so one‑sided in this tournament?  
STAN WAWRINKA:   No, I don't have any explanation.   I think it's a big surprise for everybody.   For us also.   
It's so strange because this year everybody before the tournament was expecting some big matches because was more surprise during all the year with me winning Grand Slam, Cilic also, Raonic, Nishikori being there.   So everybody was expecting some big match.   
But apparently Novak is playing really well.   Roger also.   
No, it's strange for everybody to see all those match really quick.   
   
 Q.   What changed in this match?   You had a good start, 2‑0.   Seemed to go pretty quickly after that.   
STAN WAWRINKA:   Yeah, really quickly, not 'pretty'.   
For sure, was not my best match, that's for sure.   Also because he's playing really well.   He's in confidence.   He's not missing much.   Today I think it was more about what I was doing.   He put me in a position that I think a little bit too much.   I'm not really clear what I'm going to do, because he's doing everything well and he's returning well.   
The serve was not good enough.   Then I start to do mistake because here the conditions are really low.   His ball is always coming to me and I cannot really mix the spin and try to get higher ball to try to attack him.   That's it.   
When he got the break, when he start to be in front in the score, then he's playing really well because he's winning so many matches.   
   
 Q.   You were saying with the top eight here, everybody is expecting great matches.   Do you think that expectation is fair?   Is the expectation too high in terms of the level that fans or the rest of us expect for this final tournament?  
STAN WAWRINKA:   The expectation, yeah, are right because that's the top eight, actually nine, players of the year who are playing the best tennis.   If you look all the past years, it was always some good match, some tough one, three‑setter match.   
This year is really a big surprise I think for everybody to see those match so quick.   
   
 Q.   You probably saw the reports in recent weeks about the Italian players that were named in the soccer match fixing investigation in Italy.   If this is a concern of yours on the tour in general at the upper level, lower levels?   
STAN WAWRINKA:   I think we had some few problem in the lower level.   Already some guys got caught for that.   I think at the top level, I don't think some player are doing this.   I'm pretty sure about that.   
You can see in the challenger level, I think it's more easy to bet.   It's more easy to find place on how to bet on match.   That's important to win or lose.   
No, it's not really something important for me because I'm not doing it.   
   
 Q.   The way Novak is playing right now, compared to the way Roger played when he was at his very, very best a few years ago, are you able to do any sort of comparison at all?  
STAN WAWRINKA:   No.   It's impossible.   You will never know who is playing the best tennis.   Is impossible.   It's like putting Rafa inside also.   You don't know.   They have different game.   
For sure Novak is amazing player, playing so well.   But Roger still only lose three matches per year.   It's impossible.   They are both amazing player, great champion, winning so many matches.   
It's for sure great to see them play that level because it's always nice to see the top guys playing so well.   But it's tough to beat them.   
   
 Q.   In comparison to your Australian Open victory, what is missing for your game and how do you plan to get it back for next year?  
STAN WAWRINKA:   It's completely different match when you play a five‑set match or a two‑set match.   Also the condition in Australian Open, I can play more from the baseline.   The bounce is going higher.   I can put more topspin and start to put more pressure on him.   
Today all the ball were coming to my feet and it's tough for me to put pressure on him.   
   
 Q.   Roger said the good thing of this system is that even you have a defeat, you can still pass.   Do you still have hopes in this tournament?  
STAN WAWRINKA:   Yeah, you know, for sure.   Even if I got killed today, I still have a good chance to qualify.   I need to focus for the next match to play Cilic.   I know if I can beat him, I have some big, big chance to qualify.   
I'm still playing great tennis.   I play a great match against Tomas Berdych.   I'm practicing well now.   I need to accept that match tonight and focus tomorrow to do some good practice and be ready for the last match.   
   
 Q.   A lot of players talked about what it was like to see you break through to win at a Grand Slam this year, being somewhat of a surprise.   What were your thoughts when you saw Cilic win at the US Open, which was a much bigger surprise than you?  
STAN WAWRINKA:   I don't know if it was a bigger surprise.   But, yeah, for me was a surprise also, like everybody, because he play amazing there, beating Roger in semifinal.   I think he played his best match ever.   
Yeah, also Nishikori beating Novak was quite a big surprise for me, especially when I played two days before Nishikori in five sets.   
Yeah, I think it's always good to see new player are winning some big tournaments, even if I know that the fans love to see the top guys still being there.   
   
 Q.   If you faced him at the Australian Open in the same court, do you think the result would be any different?  
STAN WAWRINKA:   Every match are completely different.   Even if I have to play him in this tournament, you never know.   For sure, it will be completely different match.   
For sure the condition are different.   Here it's indoor.   It's a little bit faster.   Australian Open, five‑set match.   It's not something that I try to compare.   I just try to be ready for every matches.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT