U.S. OPEN
August 27, 2014
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  S. WAWRINKA/T. Bellucci  6-3, 6-4, 4-6, 7-6  An interview with:  STAN WAWRINKA   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  You had a comfortable start.  Then what happened?  STAN WAWRINKA: It was comfortable because I was playing really good tennis.  I think I was serving big.  I was moving really well and taking the ball early, dictating every point.  That's why it look like not easy, but it look good for me. I had one bad game, change my focus.  I start to focus on what he was doing, not on what I was doing.  It make difference.  He start to play better.  I drop a little bit my level and that change completely the match.   Q.  That's happened a couple times in the past, that the level has dropped.  STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, it's happen few times already in past months.  But I think today I'm really happy with the win.  I'm for sure disappoint for a few things.  I'm going to work out on that.  In general I think it's been a great match.  My level is there.  I'm playing better.  The serve was really good today.  My focus also. I know what I did wrong.  But I'm not worry at all.  I know the more match I win, the better I will play.  That's the most important for me.   Q.  There was a fan in the audience that bothered you.  STAN WAWRINKA: I think was great atmosphere, South American fan.  At the end of the day they start to get a little bit drunk.  It was okay.  I had to talk to few of them. At the end it's normal.  It was four set, tiebreak.  Before the tiebreak, he was serving, everybody was into the match.  That's okay.  It can happen.   Q.  What do you think about the next opponent?  STAN WAWRINKA: I know him.  I never play him I think, but practice few times with him.  He's tough player.  I saw him play against Jeremy today.  He's serving big.  He likes to stay from the baseline, dictate from the baseline.  Again, going to depends of me, of my level, depends of my focus.  I'm feeling great.  I'm ready.  I have two days to practice and be ready for the next one.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT