ROGERS CUP MEN
August 7, 2014
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 K. ANDERSON/S. Wawrinka
  7‑6, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you just tell us what happened there today?   What was your feeling about the match?  
STAN WAWRINKA:   It was an okay match, for sure.   It's tough to lose that one.   
I start really well, I think.   I did a really bad game to give him back the break.   I was starting well, I was moving well, and that was a bad moment for me.   That gave him confidence to play better after.   
In general he served really well.   Was tough to return.   Little bit windy, and I had some chance, some chance especially in the first set.   I had set point.   I had two, three times Love‑30, and the chance I didn't took, it was more about choosing the right shot to play.   Did some mistake that I shouldn't do, and that's happened. Then it's tough to lose like that.  
   
 Q.   Do you take any positives into this US Open swing?  
STAN WAWRINKA:   It was an okay tournament, nothing special.   But I play four matches, singles, doubles together, and did a good week of preparation.   
In general, I'm feeling great.   I'm feeling physically good.   I'm moving well.   I'm playing well.   It's just that I need more matches to be really at the top.  
   
 Q.   You have been up in the top 4 for six months now since what happened in Australia.   Do you feel more of a target now being in one of those top four seeds most tournaments?  
STAN WAWRINKA:   No, not really, you know.   When you arrive, when you top seed, when you are top 10, everybody wants to win.   For sure, everybody is trying to beat the top guys.   Doesn't change.   Is just like a tournament strong.   
You play some great player early in the tournament because everybody is playing great tennis, and it's tough to win every matches.   You can see especially this week conditions are a little bit faster, it's flying a little bit.   
We can see a lot of guys struggling to play the best level.   It was a tough tournament for me.   
   
 Q.   I was just wondering, now that you're out of the Rogers Cup, do you follow this tournament along as it goes, as it keeps going over the next few days, or is it something you kind of keep out of your mind as you head forward?  
STAN WAWRINKA:   I'm going to go to Cincinnati as soon as I can to practice there, to get ready for that tournament.   
But for sure, you know, I'm there, I'm traveling, I'm alone with my coach.   So for sure we are watching the match, who's winning, who's not.   Yeah, a little bit.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT