AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 11, 2014
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WAWRINKA/M. Baghdatis
  3‑2 (ret.)

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Disappointed you only got five games in?
STAN WAWRINKA:   I'm sorry for him first.   He's a good friend, great friend.   He's been playing well since he start the grass, winning the first tournament.
It's never easy.   But, yeah, for sure you want to play matches.   But sometimes it happen.   You take it and you go for the next one.

Q.   Do you know what the problem was?
STAN WAWRINKA:   I think shoulder.

Q.   You didn't really get a chance to get much sense of how the grass is playing then, really?   Although doubles last night, as well.   Are you feeling pretty good after a couple of matches?
STAN WAWRINKA:   Yeah, I'm feeling really good.   I'm really happy with my level of the game, the way I am practicing, to play a few games on centre.   It was enough to see it as a little bit faster because the grass is still new.   It's good to play doubles later tonight, I think, to get some points, to get some better rhythm and be ready for tomorrow.

Q.   Talk us through what happened after Paris.   Not only that you didn't touch a racquet but what you thought about the game of tennis, that sort of thing. 
STAN WAWRINKA:   Good question (smiling).   No, I think I took ‑‑ actually, I stopped, or I played last week, Friday, I think, or something like that.   It was more than one week, 10 days, 12 days.   Home one day and then here.   I was here Friday night.
But no, no.   I was still watching French Open.   I love to watch the best matches.   I love to watch the best players.   Always good to watch a Grand Slam even if you're not playing there.

Q.   You didn't have a pang of jealousy that you weren't able to do it yourself?   You didn't sort of feel jealous that you weren't there?
STAN WAWRINKA:   Jealous, no.   But for sure I was disappointed with myself to lose first round.   It was a really, really bad match.   I did a lot of things in the wrong way over there in Paris.
I had time to realize and try to not make it again.   So far I'm happy to be on grass court.   I'm happy to be here.   I'm playing well.   I have more than two weeks to get ready for Wimbledon.
I have a great tournament here to play, so I will try to win some matches.

Q.   What happened in Australia?   Do you think people will have a different mentality approach if they play you?
STAN WAWRINKA:   It's been ‑‑I don't know, you know.   I have been on the tour since the Australian Open for many tournaments, so we'll see.   I think I need to look at myself to be ready.
I know that if my level is there, I can do some great results even in Wimbledon, but we'll see.   So far I'm taking it day after day and trying to enjoy here the week.

Q.   The point is having that feeling of winning, you'd love to do it again at such a special place like Wimbledon?
STAN WAWRINKA:   I'm not thinking about winning Wimbledon or winning my next tournament.   It's a   long way to go.   You have to be ready every day, and that's what I'm doing.   I'm trying to give everything every day to do a good day. 

Q.   Have you had a chance to think about why you didn't feel so comfortable at Roland Garros?
STAN WAWRINKA:   Yeah, I had a lot of time for that, but I think I know more or less.   I prefer to keep it private, because I have been talking with Magnus and my team, parents, a lot about that.
I think I'm ready for the rest of the season.

Q.   When people look at Switzerland, people think of Roger Federer.   Would you love to achieve maybe half of what he's achieved during his career?
STAN WAWRINKA:   No chance I will do it.   I'm not thinking of that.   No chance.   He's been winning everything for so many years.
I'm doing my own career, and I'm already really happy with what I'm doing.   I will try to finish it while I still have four, five years to do it.   So we'll see.

Q.   Is he the kind of player you used to watch and think, I'd love to emulate what he's done at Wimbledon and the other Grand Slams?
STAN WAWRINKA:   Yes, for sure, like all the ‑‑ he's a great player.   He's been winning Wimbledon so many times for sure.
I was watching when he was winning and when he was playing there, but I'm not thinking to do the same. 

Q.   Are you a friend of grass?
STAN WAWRINKA:   I like grass.   I love grass.   I enjoy to play on grass.   It's not that easy.   Sometimes you can lose a match that you don't want.   But it's a little bit faster but I enjoy.   It's three, four weeks during the year.   It's short.   You need to be ready from the first match. 

Q.   There has been a bit of a debate going on about the greatest coach of all time.   Magnus Norman's name has been mentioned after obviously the success that you have achieved and he had with Robin Soderling.   What do you think about that?
STAN WAWRINKA:   For sure he's part of the great coach, that's for sure, because he did some amazing job with two players already.
But then I think it's a tough job to put the best coach on the list, to do a list with all the good coach because it's tough to compare.
But for sure I'm lucky to have him by my side.   He's big part of my success since we start together, and I hope we're gonna have more success together. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT