ROLAND GARROS
May 26, 2014
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







G. GARCIA‑LOPEZ/S. Wawrinka 
      6‑4, 5‑7, 6‑2, 6‑0

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   Tough luck today. 
    STAN WAWRINKA:   Yeah.

Q.   Can you talk about the match and how you were feeling on the court. 
    STAN WAWRINKA:   Not as good as I would like, but the match wasn't good at all.   I was trying to find my game, trying to find to be aggressive, trying to find anything, and I didn't, you know. 
    For me, it's not about the game.   I don't have all the answers for why I didn't play that good.   I feel some I need to take a few days off to see exactly what's happen. 
    It's a tough loss, for sure.   But it's like that.   Sometimes you need to have some tough one to see exactly where you want to go and how you're gonna do it.

Q.   How much did nerves or pressure play into that performance?
    STAN WAWRINKA:   I was feeling okay.   I was practicing well.   I was feeling okay with the pressure, for sure.   For myself I always put a lot of pressure on myself.   But before the match and during the match it was not really about only the pressure.
    I think it's just a different story.   Now it's a different picture for my career.   I need to put the puzzle back together, but differently than in the past, because now it's, after winning Grand Slam, Masters 1000, being No. 3 in the world, everything is different, and I still didn't find all the pieces.

Q.   What are some of the things that are different?   This is your first slam playing as a slam champion.   How does that change your mindset or your preparation at all?
    STAN WAWRINKA:   The mindset and the preparation was the same, but it's just that my level is different.   So I'm playing so good in the practice, so sometimes in the match I expect more from myself.   I'm not happy with small things.   With little things, even when I'm playing okay, I'm not really happy because I know how well can I play.
    So it's more about that, the way I'm dealing with that, the way I want to put it together, and find a way how to be happy, how to play well, and how to win matches.

Q.   Is that something that you've talked much to Roger about, sort of how to deal with the process of becoming a big favorite like that?
    STAN WAWRINKA:   Roger is not my coach, so I don't... 
    He has a lot to deal with with his family, with his career, with everything.   I'm not talking at all to Roger about that, you know.   First, he doesn't have time and I don't have time, and I have a good team around me and I think I will be fine.

Q.   Did it take you by surprise at all in the beginning of the match or was it more about you not finding your game?
    STAN WAWRINKA:   He's a tough player.   He's a really good player.   I know that on years before.   It's nothing against him. 
    But I think that much it was all about me, about the way I was playing, the way I was trying to find solution.   I think it was just terrible.

Q.   How big of a disappointment is this for you?   Were you expecting a lot from yourself this fortnight?
    STAN WAWRINKA:   It's a big disappointment, for sure.   I'm really sad with that loss, but cannot change.   I have to accept.   I have to see what was wrong, to see what I want to change, the way I want to do it, and now think about the future and not about that match anymore, because I can't change the result.
    For sure I would have loved to have won, to win a lot of matches here, but it's not for this year.   So now I need to think about the rest of the year.   Not only the grass court season, but also the rest of all the year, because it's still a lot to play and we will see. 

Q.   When you talk about the puzzle and trying to put it together, are you talking about like goal setting, like now you've won a slam, you've won a Masters, knocked off a lot of goals I presume you had?   Is that what kind of the mental issue is?
    STAN WAWRINKA:   Talking about ‑‑I think it's everything together, you know.   For sure it's everything about the goal, about what I want, the way I want, the way I get the confidence, the way I'm happy with my game, about everything. 
    I don't have all the answer now.   It's tough.   It's a tough loss, and it's just happen, so it's tough to exactly know what was the problem.
    So I cannot give you all the answer, because I don't have. 

Q.   There seemed to be a couple of points where you were close to swinging a set, like you got a few breaks, break point opportunities, but you ended up losing the game.   Did you feel like you were close to flipping it a little, or did you just feel like you didn't have the answers?
    STAN WAWRINKA:   I think I was really close to completely change the match, but at the end I lost 6‑0 in the fourth set, so it's tough to say that.   But first set I should have never get broken back when I was 3‑1 up.   It could have changed all the matches.   It happen the same in the second set, and I had a stupid break to begin the third set.
    But at the end, if I look all the match, I think I was completely flat.   I was not really relaxed with my game.   I wasn't aggressive.   I was playing some bad rallies, I was thinking too much my backhand from the middle.   Everything was terrible.   That's what it is.   That's okay. 

Q.   Physically you felt okay, or was something... 
    STAN WAWRINKA:   I'm okay. 
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French. 

Q.   You were talking about confidence when you spoke in English.   You talked about a puzzle.   Do you think what happened in Madrid and Rome with regards to your preparation can explain the bad feelings during this match today?
    STAN WAWRINKA:   It's everything that happened since the beginning of this year.   I won a slam.   Then I went through a difficult period after Miami.   Then I came back, I won a big tournament.   I've had ups and downs. 
    That's why I'm saying I am not at the level of Djokovic, Nadal, Federer, because they have been around for many years, and they win everything.
    I know I'll have the level.   I could defeat them, but it's different.   I need to put the puzzle back together, find solutions, because the pressure is different.
    I'm not saying I have more pressure, but the pressure is different.   My expectations are different.   I feel so strong when I practice.   Everything goes so fine when I practice that I'm probably too demanding during the match, and I'm not happy when there are some small things not going the way I want them to go.
    As I want to play better, I want to progress, I want to do better.   Sometimes that's negative for my game thinking about all these small things.

Q.   When you walked on the court today, did you feel 100% ready mentally and physically?
    STAN WAWRINKA:   No, I felt fine.   I was motivated, I was okay, I was ready to play this tournament.
    And then what happened happened.   It was a very tough match for me, because I could see me playing bad.   I knew exactly what I should have done and I couldn't manage doing it. 
    So there are days like that.   I need to accept that.   Maybe it's going to be positive for the rest of my season.   Maybe that's going to clear up my ideas, and afterwards I know what I want to do with the rest of my season.

Q.   I know it's difficult, but for an outsider seeing you making so many mistakes, what's going on in your head for everything to go wrong?
    STAN WAWRINKA:   Good question.   I have no answer.   If I had the answer, I would have found solutions.   But it's one of the very few times, maybe the first time I felt so bad on the court.
    As I said, everything is changed this year for me.   On the positive side, of course, but it's new challenges, new things that you have to manage, new solutions you need to find, and I want to do that.
    Sometimes it's a small detail that's going to make the whole difference on the court, and I know that for now.   So I need to, you know, take a few days off and start again.

Q.   What did Magnus tell you before, during, and after the match?
    STAN WAWRINKA:   Before the match, we talked about the match, Magnus and I, as usual we talked about my opponent, how we would play.   And then the story is not as funny, but we had a discussion, but I think we will have further discussions in the upcoming days.

Q.   You're obviously very disappointed, but you're still smiling.   Does it mean that at this stage in your career you can step back and take it calmly?
    STAN WAWRINKA:   Well, I could cry, and that would be the same thing.   This match was ever so difficult that I don't even feel like crying.   I'm sad, but as I said, maybe it's going to be very positive the rest of my season.   Maybe it will put my ideas in the right place, and maybe it will give me answers to the questions I have for the rest of my season, for the rest of my career.
    So I need to be positive.   There's not a lot of positive things today except sitting in front of you today, and I will smile because I can't be angry against you.

Q.   You said you are not at the level of Djokovic, Nadal, Federer.   Does it mean that you understand the pressure they can feel when they walk on big tournaments year after year?
    STAN WAWRINKA:   No, not today.   But since I won a slam, I realized that what they have been doing for years is just incredible.   I think everyone knows it, but sometimes you don't actually realize how difficult it is to do what they do, because sometimes journalists are sometimes tired to see them in final, especially Federer, because he's been in so many finals for so many years.
    But come on, it's fabulous.   And I know that I'm not at their level, because I didn't win my first Grand Slam at the age of 20 like they did.   I was 29.   So things are different, and now I need to find a way to put the pieces back together for the end of the season, and tonight it's a difficult loss. 
    I thought I had everything I needed to play a beautiful Roland Garros, but so far I had a very beautiful beginning of season, but I always want to have more and you're never happy when you lose. 

Q.   Have you digested Australia?
    STAN WAWRINKA:   Yes, I have.   But as I said, there is always something new coming up.   I have digested that.   After Miami I had what I needed to be back, and then I won a Masters 1000. 
    But this brings additional difficulties for me, so these were beautiful victories, but maybe I need to get back to basics and be happy with simple things.
    I know what my level can be when I practice.   I know I have great expectations for myself, but in a match, as long as I'm not able to play the level that I want to play I'm not satisfied, so maybe I need to work on that.

Q.   You're not back to the level you had in Australia?   Are you afraid you might never get back to that level?
    STAN WAWRINKA:   No, I'm not afraid.   Well, it's difficult to have all the answers to your questions right now, but I'm both very confident and not confident enough.
    I don't want to walk on the court playing overly confident.   What I'm saying is a bit messy, but I have to think about it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT