ROLAND GARROS
June 2, 2019
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. WAWRINKA/S. Tsitsipas
7-6, 5-7, 6-4, 3-6, 8-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. When you came back in Australia last year and you were sitting in pain and thinking about how hard it would be to get back, was this the kind of match you were looking forward to?
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, that's kind of emotion I was practicing to have back, for sure.  Playing in front of such a crowd, such a big atmosphere, five-set match in Grand Slam, that's the reason why I came back from the surgery in the first time, is because I love and enjoy to play in front of people, to play in the biggest tournaments you can play.  Today was something really special.
Q. What were you thinking after you hit the last shot, it's very close, and the chair umpire comes down?  During that time, what were you thinking?
STAN WAWRINKA: I was pretty sure it was in.  When I hit it, I saw it was on the line.  I was just hoping that the umpire would confirm it.
So I was half a second not sure, but when I saw he was gonna say it's in, I was -- it was amazing battle today.  Today we saw only one centimeter can change the winner.
I think he would have deserve as much as me to win the match today.  It's for sure a tough loss for him, but it was something that was big battle.  I'm happy with everything that I have done today, the way I was fighting, the way I was staying with him, even if I was tired, the way I start to play a little bit more aggressive.
Yeah, it was, again, the atmosphere on this court is something really special.  Today it was really amazing.
Q. Stefanos was here a few moments ago for his presser.  I have two questions for you.  The first is:  Do you think that Hawk-Eye should be used in Grand Slams, particularly at the Roland Garros?  And also, another question has to do with your next-round opponent, that's Roger Federer.  Can you talk a little bit about someone you have known and played with and played against many, many times?
STAN WAWRINKA: I don't know about the Hawk-Eye on clay court.  I don't know how accurate is it or not.  That's the first question you need to check, first answer, before putting Hawk-Eye on clay, that's for sure.
But, yeah, to play Roger in quarterfinal, it's something, for sure, amazing for me.  I'm really happy.  I didn't play here for so many years.  He's still playing so well.  He's the best player to ever play this sport.  So it's going to be a big challenge.
I didn't beat him many times in all my career, but I did once here, so I still do remember that time and was a special day for me.
It's gonna be a big challenge.  Will need to recover from today's match.  It was still a long match.  I'm getting old, and older and older, so it is not going to be help to be ready for Tuesday.  But again, I love that kind of challenge and I'm going to try to do my best to play my best tennis.
Q. How much are you tired from 1 to 10?  It looked like you were enjoying staying in the court today.  Something that you felt this way before your surgery, it's something you're feeling more now, the joy of seeing between people.
STAN WAWRINKA: No, I don't enjoy more.  I enjoy different way, also.  I think I never experience that kind of atmosphere here in Paris on the Lenglen.  Always had a lot of support, but I think today was really special, and the match was amazing, five hours' match, five sets.  The crowd stayed all the match.
Yeah, this kind of atmosphere, for sure, I enjoyed.  I enjoy a lot.  That's the reason why I still play tennis, and that's the reason why I'm practicing every day to try to win big matches like that.
So for sure when I'm on the court I try to enjoy and remember also everything I have done to be here.
Q. Since the win, everyone is commenting on how well you have done to recover from the surgery.  But can you tell us how you have got to this point?  What has been the commitment and the dedication and the sacrifices that you have made to make this great improvement in your game?
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, it's never sacrifice when you love what you're doing.  It's, for sure, last two years were tough, but again, I have been here before.  I think I know exactly what I'm doing.  I'm happy with everything I'm doing, with my team, practice-wise, physical-wise.  Also, knowing that my level is getting there, and hopefully I can keep going.
If it's here, it's perfect.  If not, it's going to be in the next one.
Q. Earlier on, Roger Federer said that you are living a second life and that you were afraid sometime ago that you couldn't come back.  Is that true?  The last time you beat him was before six defeats here in Suzanne Lenglen.  You said you are getting older, but he's older than you.
STAN WAWRINKA: Yes, but he's quite better than me, also, so never forgot that.  (Laughter.)
Yeah, what was the question?
I think, yeah, for sure last time I beat him was here, and how many years was that?  And since that, I never beat him again.  But I'm not the only one on the tour not winning too much against him.  As I say, it's always special to play against him.
I'm really happy so far with everything I have done to this tournament.  I know what I can do, I know how well I can play.  Hopefully I can get to my best level against him and put a big fight, that's for sure.
Every time I step on the court against him, I know it's going to be really difficult.  He has something that make him so special as a tennis player, and it's never easy to beat him.  I'm ready for the challenge, and I'm happy to do everything possible to face it.
Q. And what about the second life?
STAN WAWRINKA: A second life in what?  I'm 34 years old.  It's still my first life.  I'm happy with it (smiling).
Q. You saved eight break points in the final set, and you had to fight back from a lot.  So just how did it feel trying to stay in the match?  And then were you able to take your first opportunity when it came?
STAN WAWRINKA: I have been there many times in the past.  I know that, yeah, we were both tired.  It was important for the fifth set to take the lead.
I got a little bit lucky on a few break points.  A few I was really aggressive playing better.  I knew that as long as I could stay in front in the score that I will get my chance sooner or later.
For me, it was important to stay strong mentally in those important points, and I'm happy and proud the way I did it.
Q. Roger always talks about the match you played against him here in 2015, and he always uses the same words by saying Stan crushed me there.  Do you feel you crushed him back then?
STAN WAWRINKA: I'm happy he say that for once in his life (smiling).  I think I crushed the tournament that year, so I'm happy with that memories.
But as I say, it didn't happen many times in my life against him.  Normally it's always the opposite.
Yeah, not much else to say, you know.  We all are happy that he's back on clay court after few years.  We'll see for me in two days (smiling).
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. Tsitsipas was sitting here a few minutes ago.  He said it was the first time he was crying after a match.  It was psychologically and mentally difficult.  Would you say your experience in major events made a difference today?
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, my experience is such that I was able to keep my tennis and play well in the fifth set, but I don't think that made the difference.  The difference was one centimeter, as I said earlier.
But he could have won.  He had a lot of opportunities.  We know that he could have won the match and I would have been equally happy with the fight we led today.
Unfortunately for him I won, and we saw that the match point was on the line.  We know it could have been out.
Q. Once we were sure that the match point was really in, what came through your mind?  Who did you think about?
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, I just felt relieved.  I enjoyed, I enjoyed the atmosphere on the court.  You know, such a match, with so long, with so much public, and these are emotions that you can only have in our sport, in tennis.  And I'm happy I can still feel that.
Q. Do you focus on the matches you won here in Paris, or when you prepare, do you think about the matches you lost, what you have to improve?
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, when I prepare, I focus on what I want to do and what I'm going to do.  I always try to find an answer, but it was always the case in my career.  But right now I just finished a long match, I'm really happy I made it through, and I'm not thinking yet about the next one or about the match.  I just want to enjoy what happened throughout the first week.
I want to recover.  And from tomorrow on, I will have a look at the match against Roger.
Q. There was a big battle of one-handed backhands.  Dominic Thiem also plays a one-handed backhand.  This shot is coming back.  What do you think about the fact that some young players are still using this stroke?
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, I'm always happy.  I like watching players play with a one-handed backhand.  I don't think it's coming back.  I think there has always been these backhands.
Spectators like to see it.  It's a different style than a two-handed backhand, but there are two or three youngsters who play that.
Q. In Roland, they have kept the format to the best-of-five sets.  What do you think?
STAN WAWRINKA: I think it's a good thing to have different types of matches.  I always enjoyed not having a tiebreak, so I'm not going to say the reverse, especially today.
Q. Yesterday after the match against Dimitrov, you were asked two questions, and you answered by asking questions.  The first one was are you still capable of winning a Grand Slam tournament?  And second, were you ready to fight a match over five sets and four hours?  I think it's what happened today.  Do you have more answers than yesterday?  And do you feel physically ready after what happened over the three days and then fighting against Roger and then maybe Rafa?
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, let's think about Roger and no further.  But I'm happy that I managed to play three days of difficult matches, especially with this one in five sets.
Obviously it leaves a trace.  It's heavy.  We'll see how I recover, because it takes it's toll, and I'll have to recover before Tuesday.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT