MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 4, 2014
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You've had a very successful year so far.   Are you coming into Madrid with a different feeling?   
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   No, I'm happy with the start of the year.   For sure couldn't be better for me playing like this, winning three tournaments already.  
No, I'm coming here with a lot of confidence, but every tournament, it's different.   Here it's flying, a little bit altitude, and it's never easy to play, especially at the beginning of the tournament.  
But I'm happy to be back, because I played the final last year.   It's a great event.   I always enjoy to come back here, to play here.   I'm looking forward for the first match.  
   
 Q.   Because of the altitude is the reason why you were practicing that often?   I saw you were practicing twice a day.   
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   When you're a tennis player, you have to practice to improve.   That's what I'm doing.   I came here early to get ready for the tournament, to get ready here because I want to play well here.  
No, I'm just practicing a lot because I still try to improve my game, still try to play better tennis.   That's the only way, to go back on the practice court and practice with your coach.  
   
 Q.   You're first in ATP rankings.   What chances do you think you have to go to first in the world, or it's even a goal?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   No, it's not my goal so far.   I'm still far away from Novak and Rafa.   I'm not looking for that at all.   I'm just trying to take tournament after tournament.   That's the only way to improve, to make more points.  
That's what I'm doing.   I know that every match are difficult.   I know that I'm playing my best game.   I know that I can beat all the players.   But have to do it on every matches.   It's really tough, so I'm just trying to play well and to be ready for every tournament.  
   
 Q.   What are you doing better than other players to be competing for the grand titles with a one‑handed backhand when there are not as many, if you don't count Federer obviously.   What are you doing differently.   Why can you take Nadal's forehand for example, against your backhand?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Well, my backhand is really good since many years.   I'm playing really hard for the backhand side.   I can mix with the long line, with the cross, with the short cross.   I can play hard even from far behind the line.  
I don't know, it's just that I feel really good on that side.   I think I have the power to play that one‑handed backhand.   
   
 Q.   You just said that you felt that you were still a little way behind Rafa and Novak.   What do you feel you need to improve in your game?   We've seen this with Andy Murray.   There was a lot of talk that he couldn't, but then he did.   What do you think you need to do to get up to that level?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Well, I have a lot of place for improvement in my game, and I'm trying every day to find solution to improve.  
But so far what I need to do is to keep my level during every tournament.   You know, since the beginning of the year I won three tournaments over five.   I won a Grand Slam, Masters 1000, so that's mean I'm doing the right thing.  
But I need to do it all the year if I want to be in the better place in the ranking.   
   
 Q.   Congratulations for this year so far.   
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Thank you.   
   
 Q.   Just like to ask about the Davis Cup.   You're the No. 1 in Switzerland.   Does that give you more pressure, and do you think you can win to this year?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Well, Davis Cup this year is even more special because Roger is playing.   We all know that when he's in the team you have a strong team.   That's what happened this year.   We are qualified for the semifinal, playing at home, against Italy.   We're favorite on the paper, but it's always tough and different in Davis Cup.  
For me to be No. 1 in the ranking doesn't change, because I always feel that I'm No. 2 after Roger.   It's just that when you see that I am No. 1 and he is No. 2, it means we have a really strong team.   But we'll see.   
Next tie is in September.   We have time and a lot of tournament to play and focus on.   We are going to be ready for September.   
   
 Q.   How much is Madrid a preparation for you for the French Open?   
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Well, for me it's not a preparation.   I'm not taking the tournament before French Open as a preparation.   I'm taking that tournament as really important tournament, as much atmosphere French Open.  
I'm here to play my best game.   For sure to win as much as I can.   I'm not thinking about French Open.   I'm thinking to play well this week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT