SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 24, 2014
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WAWRINKA/E. Roger‑Vasselin
  7‑5, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You seem to be handling your role as a Grand Slam champion very well.   Playing great tennis; you look confident and happy.   People say there is pressure, you're a new guy who won his first major.   How do you handle this?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Just doing my job.   Simple.   No, I'm just doing my job, you know.   My job is to play tennis, try to play the best possible, and to do that I have to practice well. 
That's what I'm doing with Magnus, stay focused on my tennis, and it's quite simple.

Q.   How different does it feel now?   You're going out there and, you know, it's a different thing from being the No. 8 or 9 seed, third‑round match, even though it's a Masters, a big tournament but not huge, do you have to have a different mentality going out knowing that people are gunning for you knowing you're No. 3 in the world?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   People expecting more from me, but from myself it's the same.   The pressure is same.   I always put a lot of pressure on myself and always want to win matches and play well.
Then I don't think it's different from before.   The preparation is the same.   The focus is the same.   The only difference is that maybe I have more confidence on the game the way I'm playing because I'm playing better tennis.

Q.   What is your opinion on that Juan Martin Del Potro is likely to miss the rest of the season because of wrist operation?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Oh, that's really bad news.   That's terrible news.   As a tennis player, as a sportsman, you don't want to get injury.
He's really unlucky since he won the US Open in 2009.   He already had one year for one wrist.   Now he's going to get nine, ten months for the other.
We all hope he's going to be fine.   It's going to be a tough way to come back, but he did it once.   We all hope he's going to come back a second one.

Q.   Roger‑Vasselin is a tricky player.   How did you approach the match going in?   Did you expect the kind of match he played?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   I was expecting a tough match, you know.   He beat me last year in Basel.   I won this year in final of Chennai.   He's always tough to play.   He's aggressive player.   He's serving well, returning well, and always trying to put pressure on the game.
But then I'm happy the way I was fighting, the way I was positive in the game.   Even if I was wasn't moving or playing so as well at the beginning, I stay with him.   I was fighting with myself to get control of the point.

Q.   Can you look ahead to the next match against Dolgopolov?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Going to be a tough match, you know.   He's playing really well.   He make semifinal last week in Indian Wells beating Rafa.   He's a tricky player.   He can serve really well.   He's moving well.   He can play really fast. 
We will see.   I think we play two times.   Last time was US Open two years ago, something like that.
It's going to be interesting match to play against him.

Q.   Does your confidence carry through on a daily basis being where you are with your ranking?   Everyone says the guy should be confident because he's playing so well.   Does that come through on a daily a basis, or is it like three years ago where you sort of hope you do your best but you're not sure it's going to happen? 
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   No, for sure I'm confident because how well I'm playing right now.   Again, doesn't make me win easy matches. 
I know that when I come on the court it's going to be tough match.   You have to fight on every matches and win matches.
But I know the way I can play.   I know now that I can beat everybody.   I just need to find a way to be fit and to be ready for every matches. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT