MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 18, 2014
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WAWRINKA/M. Raonic
  7‑6, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   Looks like you're really quite comfortable here.   Milos is a tough opponent.   
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Is or is not?   
   
 Q.   Is.   
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   I was going to say, if this guy is not a tough one...   
The match was tough.   I think I play a great match.   I was really focused on my serve to be really aggressive from the first shot, to make him move, to make him work every balls.   
The match can change completely.   He was up two times with a mini break in the tiebreak.   It's never easy to play him.   He's a big server.   He's strong.   He's tough to play.   He can play fast.   
Now, I just think that I play a solid match.   
   
 Q.   With your break right away in the second set, things went smoothly.   I have the feeling that he couldn't play up to his level against you.   
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   You know, I just think I show him every point that the match will be tough for him.   Even in the first set he was staying with me.   He was close to win the tiebreak.   But it was a tough set for him because he had to play his best, he had to always try something.   
I just feel strong from the baseline.   I feel good physically.   I know that on clay courts if I play my best tennis I can beat those guys.   I know it's never easy, but I'm really happy the way I did today.   
   
 Q.   If you play Rafa, do you take any confidence from the Australian Open or is it completely different circumstances?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   It's a different surface.   You know, Rafa is the King of red clay.   Last year I play him, he was too strong for me.   
But I think I'm a different player.   If I have to play him, I know I can beat him.   I have to play my best game for sure.   I have a few things to do on the court and we'll see first who is going to win and then I will focus on my match for tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Which part of your game do you think you have to improve to reach your best level in this moment?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   I'm still working a lot on my game outside the tournament.   I'm trying to still improve my forehand, trying to still work on the serve.   It's the same thing I'm doing since many years.   Maybe that's why I'm so good now.   During the last four, five years I didn't change.   Like when things went wrong, I focus on what I want to improve, try to be more aggressive, but not be extreme, to be tough with myself every time.   
I know on clay I have a little bit more time.   It's better for me.   I can always make one more shot.   
Yeah, I still trying to improve a lot of part of my game.   
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please.   
   
 Q.   Do you think a match like today's match shows the gap there is between players coming up like Raonic or Dimitrov, and you and the best players, the top players?   
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Well, I believe Raonic has improved considerably since a year ago or so.   He's winning many matches.   Although he lost today, Milos has improved a lot.   He won more matches than before.   He used to give up in those matches, and he doesn't do that anymore.   
Today I pushed him.   The first set was the decisive set because he had to fight extremely hard to stay in that set.   He reached the semis in Miami.   I believe he is really improving a lot in the last year.   
   
 Q.   After Indian Wells and Miami where you had a little letdown, you seem to have recovered your best form.   
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Well, since I've been here I have cleared up my head.   The Davis Cup also helped me.   It helped me, especially now that Roger is playing in the team.   I had very positive conversations with my coach and now I know exactly what I'm looking for.   
I know I am supposed to be among the favorites, but every time I play a match I am in the state of mind of a challenger who is trying to win an additional match.   
   
 Q.   You will play either Federer or Nadal next round.   What do you think?   
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   I think the further you go in the tournament, the better players you're going to have to play.   
Rafa would be perfect for me because it would be a good test to know where I am right now and what I have to work on.   And Roger, though I beat him last year, he seems to be in better shape this year.   
   
 Q.   Is it different to play Rafa on clay than on hard?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yes, it's totally different.   But even on hard courts, when he reaches the semifinals or the finals, we know he is in perfect shape and he plays his best tennis.   
But I believe on clay he is the greatest challenge you can have.   He can save points with incredible defense.   He can gain time by raising the ball high.   Sometimes even if he serves slowly, his ball has a lot of effect.   
   
 Q.   Who do you see winning this tournament?   
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   I would always say Rafa.   If he wins today, it means he's at his best level.   For him the first rounds are always more difficult.   Later on he always finds his best level.   
   
 Q.   Can we say clay is the surface you have in your heart more than any other?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Let's say that on clay there are fewer players that scare me.   Of course, the hard court season is longer so I have more results on that surface.   But on clay I'm not afraid of the other players, and that is a positive point for me, especially if I am confident.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT