BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 12, 2014
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. ANDERSON/S. Wawrinka
  7‑6, 3‑6, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   We saw they were working your back.   Can you tell when you hurt it?   Will you play doubles later tonight?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   No, the back is not the problem at all.   It's just tightness and I was a little bit nervous and tight and tired, for sure. 
But I was just working with the physio with the back.   That's it. 
There is nothing with the result today.

Q.   But is it going to affect you tonight when you play doubles?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   No, I don't think so.   The physio told me it's just a little bit tight.   I think I'm going to be ready for the doubles.   I'm looking forward playing with the doubles after this singles match today.
Yeah, I think generally physically I'm okay.   There is no really big problem, so it's going to be fine for the doubles.

Q.   What was the trouble today?   Is it his game or just a little off?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   No, I think it's for sure he's playing good.   He's a tough player to play on fast condition.   He's serving big and always put a lot of pressure.
But I'm more disappointed with myself.   I felt I was tired mentally, but that's not the problem.   I should just accept that and be positive.
I think I was negative on all the match.   I was complaining a lot about my serve, about the way I was playing, and with that, I don't deserve to win matches.
I think I should have been more positive with myself, just trying to find solution, because it was still a close match.

Q.   It seemed like you really struggled initially after the injury.   Was there a thought in your mind to retiring?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   No, never.   As I said, the injury was not big problem at all.   Not at all.   Because I won the second set after.   I think I felt better after the physio.
Again, it's not unusual.   It's just that I'm tight or tired.

Q.   Obviously every player wants to keep on winning and winning, but does it get to a stage where you're starting to feel that pressure?   And then when you come up against somebody like Anderson in these sort of conditions with him serving the way he's serving that it just gets a bit much?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   No.   I don't feel the pressure of losing a match, because I knew it's gonna happen, you know.   I'm not gonna keep winning every tournament.
For me, I think it took me a lot of energy to come back here, to practice well, to win the first two matches, especially against Karlovic.
And today I felt that my energy was a little bit down.   Mentally I wasn't ready.   I was tired a little bit.   I start to complain.   I didn't find the right solution.   I think it was a lot about myself. 
I am more disappoint with that than just losing the match, because I can lose against Anderson.   He's a great player, a tough player to beat.   Last matches against him was always three sets.   It's never easy to play against him. 
It was more about the way I was trying to find solution.   I'm not really happy with that.

Q.   You may have answer this, but is there more pressure in a way now that your career has changed and you're a slam champion and your expectations that more of us, more demands?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   There is more expectation, for sure, but I don't think about more pressure, you know.   The pressure for me, I always put a lot of pressure on myself.   I always want to win.   I always try to win. 
But now it's a little bit different for sure.   There is more expectation from tournament, from people, from fan.   But about myself, I don't think I will put more pressure on myself. 
I just think I want to win more matches.   I want to find a way to win more tournaments, and I'm going to try everything possible for that.

Q.   How much momentum did you feel after the second set?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Well, I was a little bit lucky, but in the second set I start to be a little bit more relaxed and just to play point after point. 
I think for sure the first game of the third set was really important.   But, again, I made some mistake.   I was trying to find the game, but I didn't find it.
At the end, he just deserve to win.   He was better than me. 

Q.   Why do you think you were more negative on yourself today than usual?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   I just think it's ‑‑ mentally it's not easy with what's happen in the past few months.   It's tough for me.
It took me a lot of energy, as I said, to come back here, practice well.   I was looking forward to play the tournament.   And I don't know, I just ‑‑you can talk I think with all the players.   Once you won the Grand Slam, it's not easy the next few months. 
I just think the positive way is I'm playing well, I'm really happy the way I'm practicing, the way I'm focused on the practice court.   I'm sure I'm going to have some great result.   I just need to find a way to keep going with Miami and the clay season. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT