BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 10, 2014
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WAWRINKA/A. Seppi
  6‑0, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Do you think you can play any better than you did in that first set?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Maybe, maybe not (smiling).   
But today, no, today was amazing match.   Can't complain.   Playing that great, it's good.   That level, depends a little bit who you play, but I'm really, really happy with my match today.   
I'm moving really well, and every time I can play aggressive it makes a difference.  
   
 Q.   You have been able to maintain such a high level after Australia.   You took a long break, but now you came back and are still playing at a high level.   How confident does that make you?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Well, the matches here‑‑ the Grand Slam, first tournament of the year, then the Grand Slam, for sure my confidence it's at the top.   
But I always try to come back at zero when I start the tournament.   I know every match will be difficult.   Just trying to focus on what I am doing the best.   It's playing tennis, trying to play my best game.   
Today that's what happened.   I was really focused and really happy with the win.  
   
 Q.   Is a match like this, does it help you see where you are compared to Karlovic?   That's kind of the matchup that doesn't allow much rhythm, right?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yeah, it's completely different.   But, you know, the way I was playing Ivo, I knew I was playing really good, because Ivo, he's always a tricky player to play.   It's tough to get rhythm.  
I knew after the match, my game is there.   I'm moving really well.   Didn't give him break point at all.   I was serving well, so for sure it's more comfortable to me to play a guy like Seppi, playing from the baseline.   
And I know that when I am at my best, I am normally better than him and I'm trying to beat him.  
   
 Q.   How do you like the conditions here?   Ball is moving through the air pretty fast, but the court grabs the spin.   
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   It's a good condition, like most of the year.   I think it's flying a little bit, but we are all here now more than one week.   We get used to the condition.   I think we know how to adapt and how to play well.  
   
 Q.   Most people tend to use doubles as a warmup for singles.   Strikes me that today you might be using singles to warmup for the doubles.   
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   The rhythm was fast trying to get ready for the doubles, but, no, it was important for me to start the tournament with a doubles match.   After one‑month break it was good to get rhythm and even in doubles to get some points.   
Now I'm in the tournament.   I'm playing really good.   I'm fit.   I'm ready for the month here.   I'm enjoying to play, and I'm going to get ready for the doubles because it's great to play with Roger.   It's always fun to play with him.   We always try to play good matches.   
It's gonna be a tough match because Milos and Ernests can serve and play big.   We will try to enjoy and try to win it.  
   
 Q.   I'm thinking the Djokovic match Melbourne last year really got things going for you, and your game has been lifting and improving ever since.   But how much better do you think you can get from now on?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   I don't know.   It's tough.   Tough to say.   Tough to really say exactly, but I know that I can still improve a lot of part of my game.  
Serving better, trying to be more aggressive, better game at the net; can still improve my forehand, put more pressure on the opponent.  
Then it's always the same.   Maybe I'm going to improve my game but not winning a big tournament this year.   So it's tough to really see what's gonna change.   
I'm focus on what I'm doing on the practice court.   I know that when my level is high on the practice, then I have a good chance to make some big result.  
   
 Q.   So far has there been any negative aspect to winning a Grand Slam title?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   No, but I don't know you can find any negative aspect, you know.   We all play for that.   We all practice.   We all make sacrifice to win the top tournament and the best tournament of Grand Slam.  
So if you can make it ‑‑ it's so difficult to win a Grand Slam, so when you make it it's something really special, only positive.  
   
 Q.   In your whole life since then, is there anything that you've been like ‑‑nothing negative?   
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   No, I don't think so, you know.   You adapt.   I just adapt a little bit what I'm doing outside the tennis court, but it's part of life and you need to be ready for that.  
   
 Q.   You said you play or everybody plays to win Grand Slams.   Do you also play to be No. 1?   Do you think about that?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   No.   I'm too far away from No. 1.   I'm really far.   Look at the ranking.   Look at Rafa and Novak are there since many years.   They are winning minimum two Grand Slam a year, making final, semifinal, winning Masters 1000.  
But I know my level.   I know that I can play great tennis this year.   I never won a 500.   Never won a 1000 tournament.  
We'll see.   I'm not thinking at all to be No. 1.   I'm just trying to improve, trying to win every match.   We will see.   I'm not expecting to win a Grand Slam but I did it, so anything can happen.  
   
 Q.   Can you ever allow yourself to be satisfied with what you have achieved, or is it always something else beyond that you are reaching for?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   No, I think it's something that I change maybe one, two years ago at that time trying to be really happy when I won matches, even if it's first round or semifinal, doesn't matter.   
When I'm playing well, when I'm doing good, I try to enjoy the moment, try to be really happy, try to enjoy the night, and I try to take time before to be focused on the next goal and the next match.  
Because if not, you're always ‑‑you always run after something because there is always more.   In tennis there is always one more tournament, one more Grand Slam, someone better in the ranking.   So you can always look for more, and if you are not satisfied with what you're doing, you never enjoy.   
At 35 years old you look at your career and you think, Oh, shit, it was great, but I didn't enjoy the 10 or 15 years on the tour.   So that's something I try to change how I try to do, just to enjoy in the moment.   
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT