BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 10, 2013
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/S. Wawrinka
  6‑3, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You started really well, but Djokovic overcame.   Do you think it could have been another story because a break is not easy at the beginning. 
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   One break is not enough, especially at the beginning. 
No, I had the feeling that I was playing good, hitting well the ball.   But I think I don't have enough energy today.   I think I was little bit late physically.   Against him, that's make a big difference.   I didn't find a way how to move really inside the court when he give me a few balls. 
Yeah, that's not easy, for sure.   Disappointed with myself because I had the feeling that could have done something better.   But I really think that today I was not fresh enough to do something. 

Q.   You've played him a lot.   You were both on the court a lot of hours this year.   How do you assess his performance today? 
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yeah, I think he's there.   A lot of confidence.   I think he play really good.   I don't think was his best match against me.   I had the feeling that could have done something much better from my side.   But he was always there.   He did enough. 
Today, again, as I say, I was a little bit slow, so I gave him too much the same ball and he had the chance just to run and play.   That's what he likes.   He don't give me so much space, so much easy ball to attack him.   So that's not easy. 
But, yeah, him, I think he's playing good enough to be there. 

Q.   Roger said yesterday after his match that you two were going to compare notes.   Can you share what you shared with each other?   Did anything he said prove helpful today?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   I'm not going to tell you anything we talk this morning.   But, yeah, we talk together.   That's more private.   That's more our discussion and what we think about Nadal and Djokovic. 

Q.   How do you find your level today compared to other matches you played in this event?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   My level was okay.   Was not my best match, for sure.   Again, as I say, I was not moving well enough.   I was a little bit late always.   I didn't serve well.   But that's because of him maybe.   I never really serve well against him because he's returning really big and make me think too much about my serve. 
But, again, in general I think I was hitting the ball well, but not fresh enough in my head and physically. 

Q.   You have played him a few times this year.   Is he a different prospect indoors?   What makes the difference there?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Well, it's just the condition.   I think it's quite slow for indoor court here, so it's okay to play long rally.   It's not a big problem.   But we don't have high bounce, so that's more difficult against him because I cannot really find my topspin, backhand really high.   In defense, he's always really playing flat, so it's not easy to do something with his ball. 

Q.   Obviously we often have the debate about who is the greatest of this generation.   Roger has had that title for a while.   How many more Grand Slams do you think Rafa would need to win where he's right in the converse with Roger, maybe overtaking him, when you look at the totality of Davis Cups, Olympics, head‑to‑head, all these things?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   I don't like to compare player.   I still think for me, Roger is the best player ever.   I still think Rafa will need to win few more Grand Slam.   I don't know how many, but few more for sure. 

Q.   What does it mean to you individually for your career to have made it this far in the World Tour Finals?   Can you talk a little bit about what you think about it means for Switzerland and Swiss tennis that both you and Roger made it to the semifinals. 
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   For me it means a lot this year.   Amazing year.   I still am really, really happy with my year.   For sure I didn't expect to play well all the year.   I didn't expect to be here at the end of the year, to play the semifinal.   I saw so many important match, a victory against top‑10 guy.   It proves my level is there, it's where I am.   That gave me a lot of confidence for next year. 
I still think that I can improve.   I just need to find the way how and to do it for next year. 
And, yeah, about Switzerland, I think it's amazing to have two top‑10 player for sure.   Roger was there since so long, so it was more about me.   But I think it's great for Swiss tennis, for Switzerland. 
But right now we're missing the next generation.   I don't know when they gonna come, but I hope that we will have some great player in the future. 

Q.   You've spent the entire year trying to get here.   Now you're here.   You've beaten top players.   Do you feel like a top top player yourself now?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Depends what's a 'top top player', but for sure I feel I am at my place.   You could see my level all the year.   I had nine victory against the top‑10 guy.   Here I had against the world No.3, against Berdych. 
Yeah, I always say that the ranking doesn't lie.   Even when I was 17 in the world, I was saying that.   Even if I was playing great tennis, I was not good enough to be in the better place. 
But right now I think that I deserve where I am and what I get this year. 

Q.   You had your best tennis at age 28.   We've seen a lot of older guys, 30 and older, that are still having good careers and seasons.   Do you see any reason that aging trend is going to slow down in the near future or do you expect it to continue? 
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   I think in this generation right now is really strong.   If you look at the tournament here, World Tour Finals, you have almost the same player in the past five, six years.   So that's a really strong generation. 
I think that in general we are much, much more professional.   We all have our own physio.   We all do better schedule, I think.   That's why players stay longer in age.   That's part of why you have so many player, top player, in 28, 29, 30 years old. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT