AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 13, 2014
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WAWRINKA/A. Golubev
  6‑4, 4‑1 (ret.) 
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English.  
 Q.   You have already said it was not the way you want to finish a match, but can you just talk a little bit about the conditions and how you were generally?   Were you happy with your game today?
  STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yeah, for sure.   We never want the opponent to retire for injury, but that's what happen today. 
  Myself, I was feeling good.   I think it's one of the best starts in a Grand Slam if I look about my game and how I felt on the court.   I was moving well, playing strong, playing okay.   For sure made some mistake, but for the first one it's never easy.
  But I'm really happy with the way I started. 
 Q.   Are you happy you could finish early?   Because everybody is talking about the heat obviously. 
  STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Well, for sure it's better to finish quickly the first match.   But, no, the most important is to win, so doesn't matter.   You need to win it, and for sure because of everything it's always better to finish quickly.
  That's just what's happen today.   We will see now the next match on Wednesday. 
 Q.   Does the heat concern you over the next week?
  STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Not really.   Not really.   It's never been a problem for me.   It's the same for every player, so you need to be ready.   You need to feel strong physically for playing with that heat.
  But, you know, as I say, my first match today was hot, but not that hot.   I'm lucky I finish early my match.   Tomorrow I'm going to come back early to practice. 
  For sure I'm not going to practice three hours during the afternoon, but I will be ready for my next match. 
 Q.   Do you feel any different this year coming into the Australian Open given you're coming off a very big year?   Any added pressure?   Any nerves today that you didn't feel previously?
  STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   No, not really.   I don't think I feel more pressure.   Not at all.   I just have more confidence in myself.   I know that I can play and go well in the Grand Slam.   I already did. 
  Start well the year with winning the first title, so that's giving me a lot of confidence.   I'm feeling physically strong and mentally there.
  I'm taking match after match, and I'm ready and happy already to get one match. 
 Q.   You said you felt physically very strong.   Did you change something in the off season?   Can you talk a little bit about what you did or what you worked on?
  STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   No, I didn't change anything particularly.   I was still focused on working out physically with my fitness trainer.   I have been working with him more than ten years already, so I'm really happy with him. 
  Magnus came a few days in Switzerland.   Still working on the same things.   Trying to improve.   Trying to work out for sure.   I'm still trying to improve my forehand to be more aggressive in the game, but there is no big change.   Only trying to improve every day. 
 Q.   Would you say maybe it's a matter of self‑confidence, that you're feeling better than maybe last year or two years ago?
  STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yeah.   Yeah, that's a big part.   But for sure I'm playing better than last year or two years ago, also.   So it's a little bit of everything.
  But, you know, coming after a great year, being for the first time in the top 10 and starting the year with a title, for sure that gives me confidence.  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT