AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 12, 2014
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
 Q.   Do you still remember your great game last year, fourth round, against Novak Djokovic?   What would you change if you were to play him again?
  STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yeah, for sure, I still remember.   It was a great match.   As you say, even if I lost that match, was amazing match for me.   Little bit the beginning of the year, that's why I play so good the rest of the year.   Took a lot of confidence with that match. 
  For sure there is always few things to change when you think about a match in the past, but you cannot change.   I don't think too much about that.   I try to improve and to find what I should change for the next one, but that's it.  
 Q.   So far what do you think is the missing link to win a tournament like this one?
  STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   So far (laughter)?   I'm so far away.   Only one semifinal in the US Open last year in the last 10 years of my career. 
  I'm improving.   I'm really happy.   I finished last year in the top eight.   I feel I'm close from the top guys to beat them maybe once or to stay close from them. 
  But I'm not thinking I'm not winning a Grand Slam.   I'm too far away.   I'm trying to improve my game.   I'm trying to control what I can.   That's mean the practice.   That's mean my schedule, always to try to improve, to be a better player.   The rest we'll see. 
  I know I can win more matches.   I know that I can play and beat the best players in the world.   But doesn't mean that I will do it.  
 Q.   This prize you got today, Swiss of the year, what does it mean to you?
  STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   It's great.   It's a big honor for me to be the personality of the year.   I had a lot of support in Switzerland, a lot of people watching what I'm doing, trying to support me during the year.   For sure it's a big thing for me.  
 Q.   How late was it this morning when you learned you won the prize?
  STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   It was 7:00, 8:00.   The night was live last night in Switzerland.  
 Q.   Switzerland only once has been to the final of Davis Cup.   Do you think you and Roger can now step up?   Maybe he's going to change his mind, you can team up and qualify for the final. 
  STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yeah, we have a great team, for sure, with two top‑10 guys, with the best player ever.   So for sure we have a really strong team. 
  As you say, for that we have to play together the Davis Cup.   Didn't happen the last few years.   Again, we all hope that he will change his mind to play the first one.  
 Q.   Many colleagues say you could be the next one who could rush into the top of the world rankings.   How do you handle all the positive comments about you and the near future?
  STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   No, all the comments, it's great.   That's mean it come because I'm playing good.   I improve a lot last year because I change a few things.   I'm a better player on the court.   I'm playing better against the top guys.   That's what it changed last year, to beat a lot of top‑10 players.   That's why I'm so good now. 
  But, yes, for myself, I'm looking what I'm doing.   I know it's tough to be in the better position in the ranking, it's tough to still improve.   But I'm trying my best.   I am working hard with my coach Magnus.   We worked hard last season.   Won my first tournament.   That was really great for me, something really positive. 
  I will try to continue like this this year.   As everybody knows, it's tough to beat the top players.   Last year Novak and Rafa and Andy was really, really strong.   It was the same with Roger the past almost 10 years.   So it's tough to get there.   But I'm not focused on that.  
 Q.   You mentioned the relationship between Magnus and you.   Can you describe it. 
  STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   We have great relation.   First, it's really good what we're doing on the court.   Used to be a great champion, No. 2 in the world.   Great coach with Robin.   He's helping me a lot during the practice, during the match, after the match talk a lot.   He's giving me a lot of confidence. 
  No, it's been great so far.   He's not traveling 100% of the time with me.   I think it's better for us not to be 24 hours together.   So far it's been great. 
 Q.   Are you happy he doesn't get so much attention like Boris Becker with Djokovic?
  STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yeah, he's a quiet person, a little bit like me.   That's why we are great together.   We have a good relation.   But for me it doesn't change.   The most important is what happen on the court and how we work together.  
 Q.   The conditions here can be very tough.   How do you see this tournament with the heat?   How do you prepare yourself? 
  STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yeah, it's always tough condition.   It can be really hot.   Usually for me it's not a problem, especially in a five‑set match, I know I can handle well the hot, even if we play a long match.   It's the same for both player. 
  I know for myself I feel strong when we have to play with the fitness side.   It's not a problem at all.   I did a good preparation in the off‑season.   I feel I'm ready for the first match.   I'm playing tomorrow against Golubev.   He's a tough player.   He can beat the top players.   He's really fast. 
  You never know what can happen.   I have to be ready for that first match.  
 Q.   The top players always talk about the mental part.   To beat the top players, it's important to believe and be strong mentally.   How do you see that?
  STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yeah, I agree.   Mental part in tennis, it's really important.   I have a lot of confidence in myself since last year.   I know that I can beat those players. 
  I really need to focus on every match and not thinking about playing the top players because before that I need to win a few matches.  
 Q.   You talked about a gap between the top three, top four, and the rest of the players.   How hard is it for young players now to try to get into that same bracket, even into the top 50? 
  STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yeah, so far it's been tough.   It's the same generation since many years in the top 30 almost.   We can see players staying longer in their career.   They still playing 32, 33 years old.   Everybody is more professional.   So that's why it's tougher for the young ones to come. 
  You need to be ready physically.   When you're 18, 19, you're not at your top.   It takes time to be there.   I think that's one of the reasons.  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT