BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 4, 2013
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WAWRINKA/T. Berdych
  6‑3, 6‑7, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How much did you enjoy your first experience at the O2?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yeah, a lot, for sure, especially with the victory today.   My first impression was really, really nice to be there.   I saw that tournament so many times on TV.   To play was something different.   For sure, special to win it, my first match here, was something really special for me. 

Q.   So now it's clear that Wawrinka is better than Berdych. 
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   The ranking doesn't lie.   He's No.5 or 6.   I'm only No.8.   So far he's the best player. 
For sure this year, I play him three times, I beat him three times.   Three important ones.   First in Madrid to come back into the top 10, then US Open to make my first semifinal and then here. 
I'm really happy the way I'm playing against him, but it doesn't mean I'm a better tennis player than him.

Q.   Do you think your best improvements are on the forehand or to move better the opponent?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   It's many little things.   I think for sure I improve my forehand this year, that's for sure.   In general, I think I'm dealing much better the pressure.   Even when I'm nervous, you don't see it.   I keep my level.   I keep my intention on what I want to do. 
Then I have the chance that I can do a lot with my game, so I can always change a little bit my game to find many different solution.   When I'm feel good on the court, then for sure I'm moving well. 

Q.   You had a lot of support out there, some colored wigs. 
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   They wanted Roger, but they had me (smiling). 

Q.   How did it help you?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   It was good, no?   It was really good atmosphere.   It's always nice to play in front of such nice people.   There was a lot of Swiss people.   Yeah, for me it was really, really nice. 

Q.   At the end, close to the end, you called for the trainer.   Can you explain what was happening and if everything is okay. 
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   I think it's not a big deal.   I twist my ankle against Novak in Paris.   I did it again today on a return. 
But nothing serious.   It's just that I move a little bit different and I start to feel little pain.   But I saw the physio during and after, and there is no problem. 

Q.   You said you were very nervous before your match in Paris.   Do you think what you experienced last week helped you feel more calmer here?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yeah, I think so.   Paris was really important because very few players have the chance to qualify but I had to win my matches.   For sure, I was really nervous. 
I was still playing great tennis.   That's the most important at the end of the day.   Even if you're nervous or not, the level you're playing. 
Today the same.   For sure, I was nervous on the court, but he was nervous, too.   I can feel it.   As I say, for me when I'm like in that situation, I have to focus on my game plan, on what I want to do, how I'm going to do it. 

Q.   If Nadal beats Ferrer tomorrow, you play Nadal next.   Obviously the head‑to‑head is not very good from your perspective.   He was saying that he doesn't like playing indoors at the end of the year.   Do you think this is the best chance for you to beat him? 
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yeah, I think it's the best surface to play him, for sure.   But I play him in Shanghai.   Was quite fast, the center court.   He was playing again better than me.   For sure he's a much better player than me.   He's No.1 in the world.   He had an incredible year. 
Doesn't matter if I play him indoors or outdoors, it's going to be a tough match for me. 

Q.   You're now in the tournament with Roger Federer on an equal basis.   It's always been you following Roger, but now you're at the same tournament.   How does that make you feel?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   It's more about myself and my career.   I feel really proud to be here.   That's mean I'm playing amazing tennis, especially all the year.   I had a great year.   That's the most important. 
I'm not trying to compare myself to Roger, to try to be closer than him in the ranking.   You know, that's my goal.   But I'm really, really happy we both in the tournament.   I think it's something really special for Switzerland. 
He's a really close friend.   We're not in the same group, so we can really enjoy playing here together. 

Q.   Thinking back to the incredible match with Djokovic that you lost, how important was it for you to play that level with him, and what did you learn after that match?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yeah, was a tough loss, but great match I learn a lot.   I took a lot of positive from that match because for me was important to see that I had the possibility to beat him.   I was playing the same level as him.   He was No.1, playing his best tennis on his best surface, and I was still fighting with him to win the match. 
I took all the self‑confidence on myself for my game for the rest of the year.   That's for sure help me for this year. 

Q.   The second set was very close, then he won all the points in the tiebreak.   How tough was it then to come out at the start of the third?   How did you turn it around again?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yeah, it was not my best tiebreak this year, for sure.   But against that kind of player, can be really fast tiebreak.   The two first point was really important.   He start to relax a little bit, to serve better.   Seven point was there already. 
You know, when I sit down after the set, I was telling myself that I was still thinking I was the best player on the court.   I had some chance.   I was playing good.   I had few chance to break him, but didn't find it. 
I had to focus again on my serve and start maybe the third set a little bit more aggressive to show him that I'm going to try to win the match and not let him. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT