BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
November 1, 2013
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/S. Wawrinka
  6‑1, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please. 

Q.   Did you feel you were playing against a wall today or you didn't find the right key today? 
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Well, clearly when he plays that good it's very difficult, especially on this surface where he's the best, I believe. 
Unfortunately he was a lot better than I was today.   Maybe I could have done things differently.   I could have played better, maybe.   I think I lacked a bit of energy or I wasn't lucid enough. 
But he was very aggressive from the start.   He put a lot of pressure on me, and it was very difficult.

Q.   In the beginning of the second set if you were able to break him did you believe you could turn it around?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yes, but I was not able to do that, so it didn't turn around.
I was trying to find different things, different solutions, but I believe he played an extremely good first set.   He never gave me any time to do something. 
As I said, I was trying to change things, to try to find solutions.   I had opportunities to break him and lead, but it didn't happen.
I believe I was not able to make quick choices.   I was always a bit late.   But this is due to his level of game and because of him as a player.
So he won 6‑1, 6‑4 in the end.

Q.   Maybe you sort of relaxed today a bit too much because there was this race for the Masters.   Mentally your goal was reached, and when you saw Djokovic on the other side of the net leading 3‑Love, maybe... 
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   No, I wasn't having a letdown, but mentally it's true that the week was tough.   I really had to fight.   I had to win difficult matches so that I could be qualified for the Masters.   I know then that when I play Novak or Andy or Rafa or Roger you just can't let him take the lead, because after that they are more relaxed and it's very difficult.
But it's not the end of the world.   Losing against Novak when he plays that strong, there is nothing to be ashamed of.   I have to just think about the positive things for this week.   I qualified for the Masters after playing a very good match, reaching the quarterfinal of a Masters 1000 beating Lopez, etcetera, so that was good.

Q.   When you left yesterday you were almost qualified.   Now you are qualified.   Can you just tell us the story?   How did you experience this?   How did you learn this?   What did you feel when you just knew it was done?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   In fact, I knew it at the end of the match only.   I spent the afternoon doing my own things, and I just saw the end of the match and that's when I knew.   It was mixed feelings, because with what I had done from the beginning of the tournament, knowing I was in the quarter and Raonic needed to be in the final and Gasquet should reach the semi, I still felt quite good.
But when Raonic lost, it was official.   Of course I was very happy, but I didn't jump up in my room.   Of course I got many messages, but I was quite relaxed about it.

Q.   But since this morning, part of you is already in London, no? 
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Well, no, since I lost here a very short while ago.   It was confirmed yesterday.   I thought about it, but I had a very important match to play today and I needed to be 100% if I wanted to do something against Novak.   I tried my best to do that, but now I have lost.
Clearly I'm not going to cry on this defeat.   I'm happy now that I can think about London. 

Q.   You have the suit?   You said you didn't buy any tickets or book hotel rooms.   Did you do that last night?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   No.   I didn't know whether I would win or lose today, so I didn't know what I had to do.
But I will do it now.   The Masters is going to start Monday so I have to think quick.   I have to get organized.   I have many things to do this weekend, so I talked about it with my team and I'm going to leave tonight if I can, as soon as possible.

Q.   How do you anticipate this ceremony, being in a suit and everything? 
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Well, that great celebration, it's great because we are part of it, but it's a pity because since this tournament is still going on, there will only be four of us in London.   So it's not the same.
But I'm very happy to be there and now I can prepare for London.   I'm very excited to get there and to try the surface tomorrow and do everything I have to do to prepare for that tournament.

Q.   So among the guests for London we will have Del Potro.   I would like you to say a few words about him.   Is he a good candidate?   What do you think of his game this week?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Well, over there there are only serious competitors, the top 9, and Del Potro even more.   He's the only one that won Grand Slams and that showed he was able to beat regularly Novak and Rafa.   He's in great shape.   He won Tokyo, final in Shanghai, and winning Basel. 
He's going to be extremely dangerous.   But it will depend on his physical and mental state.   Depends on many things.
In the Masters, of course a lot depends on the mental freshness of the players. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English. 

Q.   Can you just talk about obviously reaching London and what that means to you, whether that was a goal at the start of the year and how you're feeling?   Obviously you have played a lot of matches to get to this point. 
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Of course I'm really happy, for sure.   I'm excited to play London for the first time.   I had an amazing year, so that's mean a lot for me. 
It's dream come true to be there, for sure, to be select the World Tour Finals.   Again, that's mean I had an amazing year. 
I'm feeling great.   For sure I'm a little bit tired, but like all the players I'm feeling really happy to leave to London to get ready for Monday or Tuesday start.

Q.   What do you expect in London?   Obviously it's a very different tournament, round robin.   Are you nervous about it?   Looking forward to it? 
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   No, I'm more looking forward, for sure.   It's going to be my first time there, but I hear a lot about that from all the players. 
Apparently it's an amazing stadium.   It's sold out every matches.   It's a different tournament.   You have only 10 players there; 8 will play.   You play round robin matches, so you play one match every two days. 
It's going to be completely different, but I'm looking forward.

Q.   Is your preparation for round robin different than for a normal tournament?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Maybe.   I don't know.   It's my first time there.   But for sure a little bit, you know, that if you lose the first match you're not out of the tournament.   So that's something different.
But you need to be ready and focus for your first match and try to win every matches.   Simple. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT