U.S. OPEN
September 3, 2013
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WAWRINKA/T. Berdych
      3‑6, 6‑1, 7‑6, 6‑2

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Your performance tonight, is that just symptomatic of a fantastic year you have been enjoying at a level you have been able to pull up these regular wins?
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yeah, that's for sure my best year.   Today I was playing really good tennis.   As I said before the tournament, I think I play my best tennis ever. 
    I had one or two first round.   Tough mentally, especially to get the confidence back.
    But today I was really confident with my game, and I was playing really good.   I think my best match against Tomas.   It's never easy to play him, but I did a good job.   I was feeling really better than him.

Q.   What's been the key to allow you to consistently do this this year?
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yeah, this year is confidence, for sure.   I had tough beginning of the year, but in the same time was really positive for me because I was playing great tennis. 
    I had some tough loss, but I was still working out.   I think the title in Portugal against David Ferrer in the final helped me a lot with my confidence to pass the next level.
    Since then, I'm feeling really good on the court.

Q.   Andy next.   You must have good memories of playing him here 2010. 
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   And some bad one on Arthur Ashe night session, too.   Andy is a really good player.   We practice a lot together.   We had some great battle when we play each other.
    It's always usually some tough match against, but I like to play him.   I like his game.   I think if I start well, if I stay with him, I can have some good chance to do something.

Q.   Have you ever been playing better when you have played him?   Has it ever been as good as this going to a match like this against Andy?
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   No, I don't think so, but I think he's playing quite well in the Grand Slam, too, since last year.   Last year won here and won Wimbledon.   He's really confidence in five‑set match.
    Yeah, I just think to beat him I need to play my best tennis, that's for sure.   I need to especially start well the match to show him that I'm going to be there.

Q.   Who normally wins between you in practice?
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Well, I don't practice too much, so I don't count.

Q.   But does that help, the fact that you have practiced against him a lot?   I know you have played him a lot, as well. 
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yeah, I don't think it's help, because I know his game, he knows my game, and at the end of the day our match is completely different. 
    Quarterfinal in Grand Slam, it's different pressure. 
    So I don't think practice will help me or him.

Q.   Since it never happen before that you went further down than Roger on the draw, this new situation, how you can handle one of the most successful year for you and Roger is struggling all of the year?
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   It's a different situation, for sure.   I'm really happy with me for myself with the year, what I'm doing right now, but I will prefer to have him still playing in the tournament, you know. 
    I watched his match yesterday and it was not that good.   I was sad for him, because he's a good friend and I like when he's winning Grand Slam titles.
    I hope he will come back stronger. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT