U.S. OPEN
September 7, 2013
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/S. Wawrinka
      2‑6, 7‑6, 3‑6, 6‑3, 6‑4 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   We usually don't clap the winner of a match like this, but you deserve to be clapped.   
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Thank.  
   
 Q.   You can you tell us what are your feelings now?   Were you desperately destroyed at the end or tired or...   
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   It's a strange feeling, but for me I think I need to take the positive again of that loss, for sure.   It's my first semifinal in a Grand Slam, so I had a great tournament.  
    Unfortunately today I was a little bit struggling physically.   I think that is completely different match than the match we play in the Australian Open.   In the Australian Open I had to play my best game to stay with him.   
    Today I had the feeling when I was still fit, when I was still healthy I had the match in control.   I think I was playing better than him.   I was doing much more things than him.  
    But he's not No. 1 for nothing.   He was staying with me all the match, and at the end he pushed me, pushed me far, far, far back.   I had to find everything I had in my body today to stay with him, and he won the match.  
    But, yeah, I think was still a good tournament.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the crowd support.   First there was the ovation and the long game, and then at the end just a huge ovation.   People really appreciated the fight out there.   
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   It was a great feeling.   That's for sure.   I enjoy a lot.   That's why you play tennis.   It's to play in front of people like today in the bigger stadium in tennis.   And even if I lost today, I was still happy to hear all the cheering and to hear all the crowd like this.  
    I think it's something quite amazing for me.  
   
 Q.   What was the injury that you had?   Was it something you had coming into the match?   
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   I had some little problem after Baghdatis match, but then was okay.   At the end of the third set I start to feeling my right leg, and at that moment I knew I was going to be out of fuel if I had to play a long match and struggle a little bit against him, especially against him because he's such a good defender.  
    I had to change a little bit my game because I couldn't be that aggressive.   I couldn't take my forehand as I want.   And, yeah, was not easy.  
   
 Q.   The ovation and all, had you ever had a feeling like that at all on a tennis court in your life?  
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Well, after I lost I don't think so.   I don't think so.   It was a really good atmosphere, especially when we had that long game in the fifth set.   It was quite good and quite fun to see that and to see the crowd into the match.  
    I hope they enjoy the match as much as I did.  
   
 Q.   Did you aggravate it in the fourth set when you were sliding?   The right leg?   The right thigh?   Did it get worse in the fourth set when you slid?   
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Only thing I think it's not a big problem.   It's just like I'm quite dead now.   I'm quite tired, and it's also because of him, because he push me to my limit.   
    For me, it cost me a lot to come into the semifinal, you know.   Again, it's my first time.   There is few things that maybe I could do differently, but at the end he won and he deserve to win.  
   
 Q.   If I have it right, you have a Beckett quote, ever tried.   Ever Failed.   No matter. Try again.   Fail again   Fail better.   Could you reflect on that in terms of the match and particularly on your effort in that fifth set game that went so long?  
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yeah, that's how I see my life in general and my tennis career, you know.   After the match in the Australian Open, a lot of people were thinking that I was not ‑‑it's gonna be tough for me to lose that kind of match, but at the end I took all the positive from that match, and I'm here now playing the semifinal.   
    Okay, today I lost again, but I'm back in the top 10 and I'm playing my best tennis.   So I need to do the same.   The only thing that I can see, that's everything I'm doing outside the match, on the practice courts, on my life in general, is the good things and I'm on the right way.   
    I just need to continue to practice hard and to try to get more victory like I did these two weeks.  
   
 Q.   What does it mean to fail better?   What does that mean?  
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   What's that mean?   Depends how you see it.   But it's just like to go back to practice.   It's simple in tennis.   In general, it's important you go back to work and you try to improve your game.  
   
 Q.   Have you heard from Roger at all yet?   That marathon game, did that just take too much out of you?   Do you think that ultimately you didn't have any energy after...   
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   I didn't check my message, but I don't have to answer that question.   For sure he text me because he's the first happy for me when I play well.   So he's the first to text me before the match and after the match (smiling).   
    But that game, I was already quite tired.   I was already quite dead physically.   I was just trying to stay with him and to fight and to give everything that I had in my body.  
    But was tough, tough fifth set for sure.  
   
 Q.   Do you think Novak was nervous from the start to the end, and were you surprised?   
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   No, I'm not surprised, because I was playing really good, because I was pushing him.   I was putting a lot of pressure on him.     I didn't have so much solution until the third set.   He was just trying to stay with me, trying to fight and trying to push me.   Took a little bit more control, but for sure was really nervous.  
   
 Q.   You won a lot of friends, and your stock went sky high.   A lot of people were disappointed you didn't get the W.   What can you walk with away as far as a confidence boost?   Is this going to take you to the next level of your performance at this Open?  
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   I hope so.   I hope so.   I hope I gonna have some great results at this rest of the year, but the only thing I am sure is that again I am doing the right thing on the practice court, and that's where I can still be focused.  
    Because you never know if you're gonna win the match, but you know how hard you can practice and how well you can wake up to practice harder and to try to improve your game.  
    That's what I'm trying every day, it's to improve.   I know that if I practice well, then I give me all the chance to have some great results.  
   
 Q.   With how this year and this tournament have gone, what do you think of the future for you and the future for Roger on the court?  
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   For me right now I am quite happy about my present, so I'm just trying to ‑‑I need to see how it's gonna be the end of the year, because still have some big tournament.   I need to see how my relation with Magnus will continue and how we're gonna deal with that.   I'm quite positive about my game in general and my future.  
    About Roger, I'm sure it's a tough year for him.   I'm sure next year is going to be much more better because he still have the game, he still is a great champion.   I'm sure he need to adapt a few things in his calendar or in his game, but he will find a way how to come back.  
   
 Q.   When you come out of a match like this, four hours, very, very high quality opponent, and level of play throughout is it something new, is it something you learn something about what you need to do next time or going forward, or is it just another match?  
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:     After the match, the only thing that surprise me, it's the way I was playing and the way I was on the court better than him and doing much more things than him.  
    As I say, when we play in Australian Open, I had to play my best level all the match to stay with him.   Today I had the feeling that when I was playing my best level I was better than him.  
    But he's not No. 1 for nothing.   That's why he won the match, because he always find a solution.  
    The only thing that I'm sure, it's again, my level is great and I need to focus on that.  
   
 Q.   Is there a particular point or moment in that third game of the fifth set that will stick in your mind, do you think?   And when it ended and you won that game, did you feel like you received any sort of a boost from that?   
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:     I just remember when the crowd start to get into it and when I was ‑‑we were both tired, and I start to encourage the crowd to make more noise.   It was just a good feeling to see that the people were enjoying the match and they were completely into that match and they were hoping for still a good fifth set.  
   
 Q.   How different was the experience of playing in your first Grand Slam semifinal?   Did it actually feel like a different kind of match or anything you played in before?   
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Him, I think it was much more nervous than normal.   Usually I play him in the fourth round, something like that, and today he knew that it's gonna be a tough match because I was playing good since the beginning of the tournament and had the feeling that he was really, really nervous and struggling to find the plan and struggling to find the game how to beat me.  
   
 Q.   From your perspective, your experience of playing in the first Grand Slam semifinal, I just wonder what the emotions were like, how different they were than when you played in other Grand Slams.   
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   It's better.   The center court was full, so that's something good.   
    I know that more I win matches, better I'm playing tournaments.   Usually I get less nervous to enter into a quarterfinal or a semifinal than the first one, and that's what happen today.   I just was a little bit disappointed with my physically today because I struggling a lot, but in general I was really happy with the way I start the match and the way I start to play against him.  
   
 Q.   In the famous third game of the fifth set you saved five break points, and immediately after you were making some mistakes because you were that tired?   When you tried to encourage the people, did you try also to breathe a little bit?   I mean, did it help you to stop for a while and ask them or to stand up?  
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yeah, it was a long game for both, for sure.   I saw that the people were starting to get into it, and I asked them to be a little bit more, for sure to take maybe a little bit more time, but more to enjoy the moment, too.  
    He did the same, too.   Yeah, it was a really long game with some good points and some big mistake.  
    He was quite nervous.   I was really tired.   I was struggling physically, and was not easy to keep the level quite high.  
    But for me it was just important to fight and not to let him go and not to lose 6‑1 or 6‑2, but just to try to get every game I can.   
   
 Q.   For many Europeans, this is their least favorite slam when they first come to it.   It's difficult.   Traffic.   So on and so forth.   Edberg didn't like it for a long time and eventually came to love it because it challenged him.   What's been your evolution?   Did you ever like coming here?   Murray always liked it.   What did today do to your feelings about coming to the Open?   
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   It's the last Grand Slam of the year, so it's always a different challenge.   You always want to make a great result because you know it's the last one of the year.   
    It's a big city, quite amazing city.   It's emotional time here, and I think when you play good you enjoy much more because you play on big court, big stadium in front of a lot of people, and that's the way to enjoy the tournament.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT