U.S. OPEN
September 5, 2013
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WAWRINKA/A. Murray
      6‑4, 6‑3, 6‑2 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   That was a really impressive display today to knock off a defending champion, No.3 seed, and get into your first semifinal.   How are you feeling right now?  
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   I feel great, that's for sure.   I'm really happy, for sure.   
    It's amazing for me to be in the first semifinal in a Grand Slam, especially after beating Andy Murray, defending champion.   He just won Wimbledon, too.   He's a great champion.   
    To beat him in three sets the way I was playing today is quite good for me.  
   
 Q.   What were you most proud of about your game?  
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   How I was dealing with the pressure.   Normally I can be a little bit nervous and I can lose few games because of that, but today I was just focus on my game.   
    It was really windy, was not easy condition, but my plan was to push him to be aggressive because I know that Andy can be a little bit too defensive.   I like it when he's far back from the baseline, and today I did it well.  
   
 Q.   When you won that match, four letters came into my mind.   SSSS, Stan, silent Swiss success.   I'm sorry, I had fun with it.   
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Thank you.   That's a good one.  
   
 Q.   This is your moment.   What's that feel like?   To play at the level you do, but to be in the same country as the legend Roger, and this is your moment.   
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   No, thank you.   Thank you, for sure (laughter).   
    For sure, it's my moment and I'm enjoying a lot.   It's not because Roger is the same country that I'm not enjoying my career.   
    As I said, I'm really thankful for him because he help me a lot when I came.  
    But, no, today for sure it's my moment.  
   
 Q.   You looked as if your mind was saying you couldn't miss today.   Did you feel that way?  
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Not really.   (laughter).   
    You never know.   A match can change quickly.   I had the feeling that I was ‑‑ maybe it change by playing much more better than only today.   I had the game in control, that I can choose whatever I want to do during all the matches.   
    Also important for me to stay focused on that and to stay with him and not trying to change anything, try to be more aggressive or try to go more for the lines or something.  
   
 Q.   Did it ever happen to you to beat a top‑10 player without offering him not even one break point?  
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   I don't think so, especially Andy Murray, who is one of the best returners.  
    But I don't think so.   
   
 Q.   How do you explain it?  
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   I explain my level, my level of tennis right now is quite good.   I'm really confident with myself, with my game on the court.   
    And, yeah, today I think I mixed really well the serve.   I was doing a lot of serve and volley to change.   I was mixing my second serve and I was really aggressive after the serve.  
    Yeah, that's how I explain a little bit.   
   
 Q.   You mention Roger and how he's helped you through your career.   Have you had any communication with him?  
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yeah, he text me just after the match, yeah.   
   
 Q.   What did he say?  
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Private things.   You don't want to know.   
   
 Q.   Did he give you any advice?  
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   He told me congrats, that's for sure.  
   
 Q.   When you look at your season, how important was the match in Australia against Djokovic?  
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   I say many times that it's one of the key of the season, for sure.   That was a really tough moment, but at the end, I was really positive with that match because all Australian Open my level was quite good and was better than ever.   
    That's the most important for me.   It's when I practice when I feel I'm playing good tennis, then I know the result will come.  
   
 Q.   Can you pick something that you're doing with Magnus Norman that might explain the new step you have reached?  
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Pick something between us?   
   
 Q.   The work you're doing.   
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Well, we are doing great job.   He's a good coach.   Apparently really good coach (smiling).   I'm really happy with that.   
    We start in April.   I think we already have some amazing result together.   He's a great guy.   He knows the tennis really well.   He was a good player, and was a good coach already.  
    Everything is quite simple and perfect for me.  
   
 Q.   Did he change something in your way of...   
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Few things apparently, yes, but I cannot tell you how (smiling).   
   
 Q.   This is amazing, because we have been watching you this week.   Same thing happened, as my good friend here, four letters came to mind.   It was a big, bold, beautiful backhand.   Could you talk about your backhand?   If you could choose again, would you stick with the one hander or go‑to, and give us a little defense on how wonderful the one‑handed backhand is.   
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   I'm quite happy with my backhand, that's for sure.   That's one of my best shots in tennis.   
    Sometimes is not that easy, especially to return the serve.   And especially when you play Rafa on clay court it's quite difficult to have one‑handed backhand.   
    In general, no, I change when I was 11 because my two‑hand backhand was not good enough.   I was quite ‑‑I had a simple one‑hand backhand, so that's how it change.   But it's all about practice.  
   
 Q.   You're glad you changed?  
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yeah, for sure.  
   
 Q.   You have a tattoo.   I wanted to know why you choose that quote and what it means to you, that quote.   
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   It's my vision of my job and my life in general.   In tennis, as you know, if are not Roger or Rafa and Djokovic or Andy now, you don't win so many tournaments and you always lose.   But you need to take the positive of the loss and you need to go back to work and still playing.  
    Because if when you lost that's kill you, then it's tough to play tennis.   It's that simple.  
   
 Q.   You said after the Berdych match that you felt you could cope with everything that he threw at you, and you said now that you felt the same with Andy.   Is half the battle actually believing you can live with these players?   Is that almost half the battle, being able to go out there and beating them?  
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yes, for sure I believe much more in myself, and my game is better too, and when I go on court I believe it's a lot.   I had some big confidence since the beginning of the year, and that's help, for sure.   
    That's where I stay focused during the match, especially today, to see that the better player on the court and I have to still play the tennis and not thinking too much about the result.   
   
 Q.   Tenth game in the first set, obviously big moment.   Biggest moment in the match, you think?  
    STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yeah, for sure.   The first set was quite strange.   I don't think we were playing so good.   We were a little bit hesitating win the return not doing too much.   
    For me to broke him to take the first set was really important, especially mentally to be more relaxed.   Then I start to be much more aggressive.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT