MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 11, 2013
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WAWRINKA/T. Berdych
  6‑3, 4‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Congratulations. 
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Thank you.

Q.   Today we saw once again that in third set you're recovering.   You're turning around the matches. 
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yeah, it was a tough match again.   Tomas is a tough player to beat.   He was serving really good, putting a lot of pressure.   For sure I got a little bit lucky in the third set.   When I came back, I was down 4‑2, two break point to save. 
But I was saying to myself that I should do everything to win that game, to put pressure on him.   I know he can make some mistake.   I know that sometimes if you show him that you're going to be there again and again, sometimes he make a mistake. 
That happened, and I start to play better.   I start to play much more aggressive, and, yeah, at the end I won, and I'm really happy with that. 

Q.   Rafa Nadal is also known for turning around matches.   Tomorrow we will see big battle, no? 
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yeah, also Rafa is the best player on clay.   He's such an amazing player.   He is really tough to beat, especially on clay.   He came back in February and won already some big tournaments.
For me, it's the ultimate challenge to play him in final in Masters 1000 in Spain.   That's something amazing, and I cannot dream for a better final. 

Q.   You've already played nine, ten consecutive days.   How are feeling physically going into matches as big as tomorrow's match is going to be?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   I'm a bit surprised because physically I feel good actually.   Today I was feeling much more better than yesterday.
It's more mentally.   Today I had the feeling that I was starting to be tired; I was a little bit slow with my reaction and with what I was thinking on the court and to take the decision.
So that's more about the mental that I start to be a little bit tired. 

Q.   I remember you got to the semifinals in Barcelona and you lived there.   How did you develop an all‑round game, because you are very good in clay and other places, Wimbledon for instance or whatever. 
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yeah, but I grew up on clay in Switzerland.   I was always practicing on clay.   I went few month during the year to practice in Spain, especially in the winter because in Switzerland you don't have the clay.
That's why I feel really good on clay, because I grew up on that surface.   But since few years, maybe more than few years, I have the result on every surface.   I start to feel really good on all the surface, especially hard court. 
So I'm really happy with that.   It's much easier for me to change surface.   Every time I come back to the clay, I feel that it's still the best surface for me. 

Q.   Do you feel you'll have any supporters in the crowd tomorrow?   Will it be 99% to 1%?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   For sure it's going to be 100%, too, except my coach.
No, for me, I cannot dream about a better final to play in Madrid, in Spain in Masters 1000.   After great tournament that I did, to play Rafa on clay, it's something amazing, and I'm going to take that challenge and try to play my best game tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT