MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 12, 2013
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. NADAL/S. Wawrinka
  6‑2, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   In what was a difficult enough proposition today, you started off a little bit lax.   Did it make it obviously ten times more difficult when you're 3‑0 down with two breaks of serve already?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   For sure it's not easy then.   I think he start really well.   He start playing well, feeling the ball well, putting a lot of pressure, topspin.  
For sure I was not feeling that well and maybe not 100% physically and mentally, so then it's really tough to play.   And even if I'm playing my best tennis and completely fresh, it's really, really tough to beat him.  
If you're not completely there then he's killing you, like he did at the beginning of the match.   It was tough for me.   The ball was flying.   It was different conditions.  
Yeah, I didn't find the way how to play my game, how to be aggressive on the court.   He was also dictating the points.   Against him, it's impossible.   
   
 Q.   In the second set you got two love games, even coming to the net.   How was the injury?   It's nothing serious?   
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   No, I'm not injury.   I'm just tired from the last two weeks.   What I say, if I'm not 100% mentally there against Rafa, you have no chance.  
Today he was just playing much more better than me.   I try little bit the second set to push him, to come to the net more early in the points, but it was too difficult.   I think he was just playing too good.   
It's impossible for me.  
   
 Q.   You played most of your matches either late in the afternoon or in the evening.   What do you think is the advantage it gives to someone who has had to play all the matches during the day as against someone who has had to play most of their matches late?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yeah, for sure the conditions are completely different.   A late match, it's much more slower and you don't have so much bounce.  
Yeah, it's completely different.   But I think that, again, when you play Rafa, first he's amazing player.   He's there since he's back from February.   He won already so many matches and make always the final.   He won Indian Wells, Acapulco, here.   
So it's tough to play him in the final.   For sure I was not feeling so great during the match because he's so strong.   
   
 Q.   Where does this leave you going forward?   You've mentioned the very, very tough schedule you have.   Is there a risk?   In fact, you're one of the players who has played the most matches lately.   Is there risk of burnout by the time you reach the French Open?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Well, I think it's good problem to have, to won the title last week, to make the final here.   I prefer that program than to have not enough matches before French Open.  
But, yeah, since many years I'm always careful with the schedule.   I'm always trying to play not so many tournaments, to have some ‑‑ for example, every week before Grand Slam I never play a tournament to be ready to get few days off and to practice well.  
So, yes, for the moment I'm feeling good.   The most important is not to get injury, and I will see tomorrow how I feel.   I will try the flight tonight to Roma and try to be ready for Tuesday.   
   
 Q.   Now you're working with Magnus Norman.   He got to the final against Kuerten.   Could this benefit your game on clay or anyplace having a Swedish coach?   
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   I think in anyplace.   He was No. 2 in the world and make so many big results.   He was amazing player and did a great job with Robin Soderling to get him to the No. 5 in the world.  
We just start.   It's the first week in tournament with him.   I think we did a good job this week.   I'm really happy with how we work together.   I'm really looking forward for the rest of the year with him.   
   
 Q.   I just wonder, as a player with a single‑handed backhand, what problems that gives you against Nadal and what you think he does so well against a player like you?   What makes it so difficult to play him?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yeah, he's lefty and puts so much topspin on his forehand; and to have the backhand always high, it's difficult because I don't have the power of my two arms.   I only have one arm.  
So I need to have the perfect timing to play a strong shot.   You can see today if I don't have the legs to get there, I have no chance to come back in the point.  
So many times he make one, two forehand on my backhand and I cannot come back.   
   
 Q.   In terms of the Madrid tournament, we have another Swiss in the final, but not the Swiss we expected.   How has it been living in the shadows of Roger?   Your start of the season, is this an important step up in terms of your recognition within Switzerland?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Well, as I say many times, when I arrive on the circuit Roger was already there.   He was already top 10.   It was really good for me.   I was young.   I get to practice with him a lot. , I get to play Davis Cup with him.   We won the Olympics together.   
So was always something really positive for me to be in the same era of Roger.   I'm still really proud to have that player in Switzerland.   For me, he's the best player ever in the world, and for the moment he's going to stay there.   
I hope he's going to still win some many tournaments.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT