BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2013
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. FEDERER/S. Wawrinka
  6‑3, 6‑7, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How close a friendship do you have with him?   Remembering the Olympic gold medal? 
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yeah, he's a good friend.   I know him since many, many years, and we practice a lot, play Davis Cup, have some amazing memories in Olympics. 
For sure we good friend.

Q.   When Roger was serving for the match at 5‑4 in that second set, can you think back to what your thoughts were at that point?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   I was feeling much more better in the second set.   After he broke me I was starting to play much more aggressive, much more better.   My game was better.
I had few chance before on the same side, and I was just trying to be focused, to make him play a lot, and try to fight like always I do in every match and against every player.
I did great passing, and, you know, I know that when it's Love‑15, when I can get into the point, I have some chance to do something. 
That's it.

Q.   What are your thoughts on your year?   You have played a lot of good tennis and come out on the wrong side of some very close matches.   How do you feel overall?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Well, I feel good.   You know, for me, the most important it's my level, you know.   Since the beginning of the year I'm playing good tennis.   I'm really happy with that. 
I need to be focused all the year with the same attitude and same level.   I know that I'm going to have some good results.   I'm sure about that.   I just need to be focused on every match and every tournament. 
Simple.

Q.   You have beaten him just once in a lot of matches.   When you're out there and getting as close as you are and you're almost kicking the match over, are you thinking, Finally?   Finally I got this guy? 
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Finally not, because I know tennis.   Until the last point it's never over.   (Smiling.)
You know, I'm not the only guy who beat him only once, you know.   A lot of people never beat him.   He's Roger.   He's amazing player.   He always find a way to win the match.
Today for sure I had some chance, I had some opportunity, but I couldn't lose the match in two straight sets, too.   I was just trying to play my best game.   I find a way how to play good tonight. 
I find my game, I was close, but not enough, and that's why I need to still go to practice and practice again.

Q.   Where do you go from here?   Going straight to Miami or hang around here more?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   I don't know.   Don't know yet.   I need to check my body.   I had some few problems last few week, especially with my arms, so I need to see that, and my back. 
So we will see, too.

Q.   There has been some talk on the WTA side about trying to get rid of grunting from players.   There has been some very loud grunting also from the guys recently in this tournament. 
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Like who? 

Q.   Berlocq, Granollers, guys who grunt loud... 
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Never had problem with that.

Q.   You never had a problem?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   No.   I'm not focused on that.   If I need to play Berlocq or someone else, I really don't care about that.

Q.   Do you ever sit down with Federer on the road or have lunch or anything and talk about the Olympic gold medal?   Ever talk about that?
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   It's long time ago already, so... 

Q.   Five years. 
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yeah, it's a lot, five years.   Especially in tennis.   Every week you have a new tournament.   Every week you focus on something else. 

Q.   Special memory, though. 
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yeah, for sure.   But I think it's gonna be more special when we stop tennis, you know. 
Actually now we don't have so much time to see each other.   He's have his family; I have mine. 
This tournament I have mine, and we just focus on what we do.   That's it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT