MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 19, 2013
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. TSONGA/S. Wawrinka
  2‑6, 6‑3, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English.   
   
 Q.   You played very good in the first set, halfway through the second set, then somehow it went down from there.   What do you think were the reasons?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   If I look all the match, I think I had maybe one bad game in the second set.   The rest I don't think I was playing much more better in the first set than in the third set.   
I think a few points changed the match with him.   I had the chance to break him first in the first set and then he was playing not that good.   He was making a lot of mistake.   He changed that.   I had some opportunity in the third set, but he was the stronger player today.   
He pushed me somehow where I didn't want to go.   He was really strong.   He was always trying to put pressure, and he keep his line.   That's make the difference.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please.   
   
 Q.   In that fourth game in the second set, do you believe this was the turning point?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Well, I lost that game.   I didn't serve well.   But I believe that winning 6‑2 in the first set was a good reward for me and it was not well paid for him because, in fact, we had played long games and there were breakpoints for him.   It could have gone either way.   
After that he gave away a few points.   But I believe we played a good match, both of us.   He was able to keep his line, whereas I stepped back a little because he was pushing me backwards.   The difference was only a couple of points.   That kind of match can turn around very quickly.   I believe in the third set he was able to take his opportunities.   
   
 Q.   Physically he said he was a bit better than you were at the end much match.   What do you think?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   I didn't feel tired or anything.   But I was not able to play deep enough, so he could put pressure on me with his forehand.   He was able to finish off the point at the net.   
   
 Q.   I have another explanation on the mental side of things.   In the beginning of the third set, you were apparently above him.   In those cases, it's the player with more experience that is able to hit the lines here and there, then make a difference.   I thought because of that it might escape you.   He played more often in those situations as a top‑10 player.   
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   I entirely agree with what you're saying.   But, as I said, when we play each other, the difference is only a few points.   Also, as I said, the first set, although I won 6‑2, the score is not showing how tight the games were.   I even think I played better in the beginning of the third set than I did in that first set.   
But he was able to keep his routine, to do what he had planned until the end of the match.   He's more used to that kind of tension.   So that makes the difference between the one that is ahead and the one that is behind.   
But a match like I played yesterday gives me a lot of confidence to keep going to that direction and get more experience.   Of course, I'm disappointed losing today.   But I believe overall it was a good tournament.   
   
 Q.   Do you believe he can make it difficult for Nadal?   
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Well, he's one of the rare players who is powerful enough to challenge Nadal.   He proved that on hard courts.   Clay is another story.   I still believe Nadal is a great favorite on that surface and I believe he will lose very few matches this season on clay.   
   
 Q.   Are you going to work on these little details that can make the difference?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Well, I don't believe I played badly in the beginning of the third set.   I believe it was him who had more confidence.   I'll see what I'm going to work on with Magnus when we finally can make it to the court for practice.   
   
 Q.   It seemed in the second game you were a bit out of the match.   This didn't happen to you any more.   You challenged a call or something.   
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   My double‑fault had nothing to do with that.   It was because he was putting a lot of pressure on me and I had no choice other than taking risks with my serve.   
Although I lost that game, I had several opportunities to come back into the match, as I said.   A couple of details made a difference.   He is much more secure in his shots.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT