MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 18, 2013
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WAWRINKA/A. Murray
  6‑1, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel very confident before the match?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   I was with my game and myself.   I knew it was his first time on clay.   But, you know, when you play Andy, it's never easy to feel confident before the match.   He's an amazing player.   He's always tough to beat.   Therefore, to beat Andy that easy was a big surprise, for sure.   
   
 Q.   Guess you weren't expecting to win in 58 minutes.   
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   No, that's for sure.   You never expect first to beat a top‑four player, especially that easy.   
But, yeah, my game is there.   I'm playing really good, really strong, really confident with my game.   I know that what he's looking for his game, he's playing slow, he's playing from the baseline, he's not putting so much pressure.   For me on clay, it's perfect.   
   
 Q.   The second game, you were in trouble.   But after that it seems you were just playing really well.   Did you feel that was the moment you thought it was going to go your way or was it too early in the match?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   No, I think the first games were a good level.   We were playing some good rally.   He was playing good.   I was still playing good.   To save the breakpoint for sure was important.   
Yeah, was then going so fast.   I was playing really good.   He wasn't playing that good.   That's perfect for me.   
   
 Q.   Do you get a sense sometimes when his body language goes a little bit negative, that you sense that?   
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yes, yes, especially him and on clay.   I think when he's not feeling that good, he cannot just play from the baseline against me.   For me it's perfect because he's playing so slow, he give me so many easy ball to kill him.   
Yeah, for sure I think when he's looking for his game, for me it's much more better to play him on clay court.   
   
 Q.   Did you watch Tsonga?   Should be a good match.   
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   I hope so.   He's a strong player.   He's going to be, for sure, a tough match.   He's putting a lot of pressure.   He's playing really fast.   He's a really, really good clay court player.   For sure is going to be really difficult for me.   I need to play my best game to beat him.   
   
 Q.   We had two matches, very fast, very interesting, yours and Grigor Dimitrov.   What do you think about the new games coming into the tennis?   What do you think about Grigor?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   He's a great player.   You can see that since a few years.   Now I think this year he's playing much more stronger.   He looks that he wants more to be there.   He's putting much more pressure.   He gets already some good victory.   He's going to be there in the future.   
So it's always nice because I like to watch him.   He have a great game to watch.   Very entertaining game, so it's nice for the tennis.   
   
 Q.   Are you going to play together with him in Stockholm?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   I'm not going to play Stockholm this year.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French.   
   
 Q.   So what did you do so well against Murray on clay?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   We often play very tight matches.   Each time with our individual games we play very good matches, except once or twice where he really beat me badly.   On clay specifically it's easier for me because he has a flat backhand and he's not able to counterattack with it as much.   It gives me much more time to play my own game.  
   
 Q.   Can we say this match was just perfect?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   I must say it was an ideal match for me against the second seeded player, one of the best players in the world.   
   
 Q.   But you've always played well here.   You like this tournament.   
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yes, I do.   I enjoy very much playing here.   I'm able to adapt to clay very quickly, unlike other players, like him.   Also the courts are very good quality, almost similar to the French Open.   So it's really ideal to play here.   
   
 Q.   You didn't give a fist pump like you do sometimes during this match.   Why?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   It went too fast.   The games and the score were going so fast.   Also there were no very hot moments where you really need to show to the opponent that you are there, so I didn't do it.   Everything was going well in that match for me.   I tried to stay focused.   That was important.   
   
 Q.   So you were not able to watch the National League and your team winning.   
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   That's a major regret for me.   But, of course, my tennis career is my priority.   I could have stayed in Switzerland and watched all the matches, but what I want to do is play good tennis.   
   
 Q.   Did you celebrate the victory?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   No.   I was not in the atmosphere.   If you want to celebrate a victory like this, you have to do it with the team, not alone somewhere else.   
   
 Q.   You often practice with Jo, don't you?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yes, we do.   We get along really well.   We try to practice every time we can when we're playing the same tournament, and sometimes in Switzerland we practice together, too.   
   
 Q.   You decided not to play that Masters 1000 tournament.   Was it a difficult decision?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yes, it was tough because you're supposed to play the Masters 1000, if you don't, the others gain a lot of points.   But I knew it was better for me to get some rest and treat my injury so I would be ready for the clay court season.   
   
 Q.   What is the key to beat Jo?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   I need to play my best tennis.   We know each other very well.   I know he's going to put a lot of pressure on me.   He's very quick when he returns.   He's able to play on all surfaces, including clay.   
I know he practices on clay because his goal is the French Open.   So on a good day he can be very dangerous and he's very tough to handle on the court.   
   
 Q.   Your level of game now has reached the top 10, don't you think?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Well, I've been playing very well this year.   I had some tough losses, but they were useful.   I could draw lessons from them.   I just take it day after day.   
This particular victory is very good for my spirits against a top‑four player.   
   
 Q.   Did you speak with Norman on the phone?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Not on the phone, but we text.   We are in contact regularly.   We have been for the past weeks.   He tells me his opinion on the matches I play, but we didn't start really serious work yet because we haven't seen each other, we haven't practiced together yet.   
When we'll do that, he will get to know me better, he'll know exactly what to do when I'm tired or under pressure.   
   
 Q.   We feel you are a lot more calm than before.   
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   That's age.   Maybe I feel less stress.   And every year is different.   I always try to improve further.   I'm still very eager to play.   I know I have room for improvement in my game.   
   
 Q.   That will maybe erase from your mind that loss against Djokovic in Australia?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Not really.   I really could have won that match.   And also the loss in Davis Cup hurt me.   So this victory does a lot of good for me.   I will stay positive anyway.   I was able to do that in spite of very bad losses I had.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT