LONDON 2012 OLYMPIC GAMES
August 1, 2012
Roger Federer
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







ERLICH‑RAM/Federer‑Wawrinka
  1‑6, 7‑6, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Roger, can you comment on your singles match from earlier on, please. 
ROGER FEDERER:   Well, I thought I played a pretty good match.   He did really well to come back into the first set because I didn't play a poor game to get broken in the first set.   So things got a bit complicated.   He played well.   Then obviously the rain delay made it a bit more nerve‑wracking. 
But happy I found a way out of it.   Took the right decisions in the rain delay to come through and not panic.   So I'm very happy with my performance. 

Q.   Janko Tipsarevic is playing John Isner, can you tell us about each player. 
ROGER FEDERER:   I have no preference.   I've played both already this year.   Both are very good players.   Both play well on grass.   I know it's going to be a tough one for me.   Obviously John, we know he's got one of the best serves on tour, if not the best, that obviously makes it complicated getting into rallies, into rhythm.   That's grass court tennis. 
I felt today the doubles, there was not much rhythm out there.   You just try to do your best. 
Janko is great from the baseline, has a great first serve, moves well.   He's got obviously a good game set up against top players, as well. 

Q.   Could you talk us through the doubles.   You had a strong start.   What are the key moments for you in that match? 
ROGER FEDERER:   Well, I thought we played an excellent first set.   Conditions were tough.   They were breezy, a lot of shadow on the courts.   But that didn't disrupt our great playing.   Honestly, I thought they struggled a lot with that. 
I thought we had virtually no chance on our service games, and on the returns we were making all the play.   It was really on our racquet.   It was a pity we couldn't create a few more maybe opportunities throughout the second set.   But obviously they found a bit of a way to get back into the match. 
Then in the tiebreak, there's always going to be a shot here or there.   That was the same thing in the third set.   Just didn't fall our way. 
They definitely played better once sort of the shadow went, all the flags, all the spectator shadows were gone.   It was more clean tennis. 
Overall I thought we played a good tournament.   A good one against the Japanese, a good one today.   It just wasn't meant to be today, I thought. 
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Like he said, I think we play a good doubles.   But doubles can be really tough.   One or two point can change the match, especially on grass court. 
It was really not easy.   We play better the two first sets, but that's tennis.   It's not easy.   They start to turn much more in the third set.   For us, was not easy. 

Q.   Just how difficult was the wind today? 
ROGER FEDERER:   In the singles not so bad.   In the doubles more obviously because you're not so protected from the stadium, even though you have the big wall from the broadcast center that maybe could help you out.   I thought it was a bit breezy. 
Those outside courts are always like that.   That's why I'm happy I get to play my matches out on stadium courts, to be quite honest. 

Q.   A weird question, Roger.   Obviously today with our best golfer in Norway, Suzann Pettersen, she came all the way to London to experience before the Rio Olympic Games, she wanted to see your match because you're her about biggest idol.   Why do you think that is? 
ROGER FEDERER:   I have not idea.   Maybe you should ask her that question.   I'm always happy to hear I'm an idol or inspiration for other people.   I think that's what athletes sometimes need are people, have someone to look up to, to be as successful as.   Maybe it's in the character. 
I don't know.   I'm happy I am that for her. 

Q.   How do you feel now compared to when you played in Wimbledon? 
ROGER FEDERER:   Well, now I'm disappointed.   But overall I'm feeling good.   It's obviously a whole different feeling out there because it is the Olympic Games.   Best‑of‑three set tennis is very fast.   There is no room for error really.   In the doubles anyways, even more so. 
I mean, I'm feeling good.   I think we played two good doubles.   I'm playing well in the singles.   Now I'm just waiting to see who I play in the next round. 

Q.   Stan, will you stay here for a few days or moving straight to Toronto? 
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   I don't know yet.   I'm going to see the schedule.   For sure, I'm playing normally next week in Toronto.   I don't know if I'm going to leave from here or going back home first. 

Q.   Roger, just away from the Olympics, in one sense anyway.   Have you been able to make use of your club membership over these last few days here for anything? 
ROGER FEDERER:   Well, hit at Aorangi, if that's what you mean, so yes.   I used the parking lot there one time.   So it was exciting. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT