WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 18, 2012
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/S. Wawrinka
  7‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for stand.   
   
 Q.   Outstanding week of tennis this week.   Obviously you ran into Roger today, but how do you feel about your game going into the Open?   I would have to think you feel you can match up against just about anybody.   
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yeah, for sure I'm really happy.   I think was a great week and I beat some great player, like Ferrer, Raonic.   Yesterday was some great match.   Even today was a good match for me.   I think was playing good.   It's never easy to lose, but Roger is the No. 1.   
For me it was really good week.  
   
 Q.   You had a 140 yesterday and again today.   That's quite a serve for you.   I've really seen you only get to mid‑130s prior.   
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Yeah, this week was serving pretty well.   Since the match against Ferrer I think I was starting to serve really well, really strong.   
No, that's something good for my game.   When the serve is there I'm really strong and I can play really aggressive after.   
   
 Q.   Tight in the first set.   As soon as he got the break in the second it seemed to go very quickly.   How difficult is it when he gets his nose ahead to stop him.   
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   It's really tough.   That's why he's No. 1.   As soon as he gets the break he's playing really fast, serving better, and playing aggressive.   You have almost no chance.  
No, again, I think if I look at my game, I'm really happy with the week.   I was struggling a little bit the last two months, and now I have the feeling that I'm really playing good again.   I'm really happy to go to the US Open like that.   
   
 Q.   You have one of the most beautiful and effective backhands in the game.   Do you model that after anyone or what coach helped you develop that?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   No, my first coach that I have during ten years, I change to one‑hand backhand when I was 11 with him.   It was something natural, so I didn't look at someone or didn't do anything special.   
   
 Q.   Who was that coach?  
STANISLAS WAWRINKA:   Dimitri Zavialoff.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT