ROGERS CUP MEN
August 11, 2011
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WAWRINKA/K. Anderson
  6-4, 4-6, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions in French. 

 Q. A Swiss question. When you are in a tournament like this, do you keep an eye on what Roger is doing in his draw?
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Well, I always have a look at the draw and look at other players. I look as much to him as I look to others. He also looks how my tournament is going. Every time the other one wins, we are happy. 

 Q. What about the next match, can you talk about Fish and Gulbis. 
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: I believe Fish has been playing well during the past year and a half. He's now top 10. He won his first tournament and he's playing well. He seems to be extremely fit. He serves well and moves well now. He's able to dictate the game. 
 As for Gulbis, he's a surprising player. We have known for a long time now that he has a great potential, but he always has many ups and downs, except lately when he won L.A. So I believe he started this U.S. Open Series extremely well. 

 Q. These are a very tough four weeks. Is it the toughest period of the year?
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Yes, it's extremely difficult. The Masters 1000 tournaments are tough because all the matches are difficult. 
 The important thing here is to stay fresh. The conditions were tough this week. It's a bit cooler than in other tournaments, but it's humid and it rains. It's difficult to adjust to those changing conditions. 

 Q. You're now in the quarterfinals. This will bring points for your ranking. Is the ranking a priority for you or merely a bonus?
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Ranking comes when you win matches, it's as simple as that. So the important thing is to stay fresh and keep winning. I was happy because I had a good level of tennis today against a player that was tough. I had a long match in three sets. 
 But I'm playing well in this period. All the players are doing well, too. So it is a bit complicated. I need to find the weaknesses of my opponents to be able to win. 

 Q. What is most important for you: a good result or the ranking?
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: It's the same. You can't have one without the other. If you have a good result, you'll get points and improve your ranking. If you improve your ranking, it means you're winning. So I want both. 

 Q. For you reaching the quarterfinals of a Masters 1000, is it almost the same as a Grand Slam tournament? 
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: It has nothing to do with it. I'm very happy to be at this stage of a tournament, but a Grand Slam is something completely different. 
 As far as this tournament is concerned, I consider it as not a success yet. I still need to play another match, and I want to do well. 

 Q. You're getting close to the top 10. Is that very special for you?
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: We'll see what happens on Monday. The goal is to be close to the top 10 after the US Open. 

 Q. Your fitness is extremely important. Are you still working with Pierre Paganini?
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: I've been working with him for a year. With Gstaad it was a bit difficult, but we tried to meet regularly. Between Gstaad and the Davis Cup, we had 10 days to work together. We wanted to get ready for this US Open Series. 

 Q. Are you working only to maintain your fitness or to try to improve it?
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: I always want to improve, but there are moments in the year where you don't have time to try to improve. The only thing you can do is maintain your condition. 
 But since Gstaad I believe, thanks to the hard work, I improved physically. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT