ROGERS CUP MEN
August 8, 2011
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WAWRINKA/D. Nalbandian
  6-1, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
  
  Q. You've changed surfaces quite a bit since Wimbledon, going to hard court then clay, now back onto the hard courts. How difficult is that transition from surfaces? And how happy were you with your performance today?  
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: It's never easy. But I think with all the experience and every year it's more easy for me to come back from clay to hard court. I get almost a week, five days here to practice, to be ready.   
 No, everything is great. I'm playing great. I'm practicing really well. To win in two straight sets was really good for me.   
  
  Q. It's Roger's birthday today. What kind of influence has he had over the course of your career being someone who you've been able to train with and know on a personal level?  
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: I know him since long time, since I'm 16. We used to practice a lot, playing together, playing doubles, Olympic, Davis Cup. It's always good to know him and to play with him.   
  
  Q. When you played Nalbandian, you beat him very easily. Do you see that maybe his game has dropped or he's not the same guy he was two years ago or...   
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: With him, you never know. Today he was not playing really good. I think he's not really ready.   
 But in one week he can change his level. Playing last year in Washington, I lost 6-1, 6-3, no chance for me, he won the tournament.   
 All the players still think that he can play really well. But maybe with the year, he's 29 now, maybe it's not easy for him to play many matches at the top level.   
 You never know. Next week he can play really well, beat every player, and be in the semifinal or final. But we'll see.   
 THE MODERATOR: Questions if French.   
  
  Q. What do you think of that match? Of course, Nalbandian was not at his best level today.   
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: For me everything went very well. I was very pleased with my game today. Nobody wants to play Nalbandian first round in a tournament leading up to the US Open.   
 But he was not at his best today and he was not moving very well. As far as I'm concerned, I was serving well, playing aggressive. Winning in two sets was an ideal situation for me.   
  
  Q. You recently played on clay. How was the transition to this surface?   
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: I only played one tournament on clay. That was just one week. I've been here since Wednesday and I played well during practice sessions. With the years, I'm now able to change surfaces quite quickly.   
  
  Q. Of course, the Davis Cup is a bit far away, but how do you see that difficult tie?   
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Yes, indeed, it's far away. I think the most difficult thing will be traveling down to Australia. It's a long trip.   
  
  Q. In the second set at 5-4 were you starting to get worried?   
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: A little bit. This is a first round and anything can happen. He was playing better in the second set, but I was able to stay focused and I was trying to serve well, which I did. I was able to close it out in two sets.   
  
  Q. How do you assess your level of game here?   
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: I'm playing well right now. Physically I feel good. I'm moving well. I am very motivated for this U.S. tour.   
 But, of course, each match is going to be difficult. But I am playing well. I'm also doing some good work with my coach.   
  
  Q. You are not far from the top 10. How do you see your ranking?  
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Well, indeed, there are very few points separating the top 10 and the top 17 players. It's the same for all the players. It's going to be the one who plays best in the next tournaments who will make it. I will try to play the best I can and I will take it match after match.   
  
  Q. Did you give a present to Roger on his birthday?  
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: No, no presents between us.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT