AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2011
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/S. Wawrinka
  6-1, 6-3, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. After your great win over Roddick, how disappointing was it today?   
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: For sure I'm disappointed to lose, but I think he was just playing too good. For sure, you look the match from outside you don't see how good he was playing. But he was always giving me some answer, and he was just being really too good for me.  
  
  Q. I know you practice with him and play against him, same and opposite side of the net. Do you see something a little different when you're playing a quarterfinal at a Grand Slam?  
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Than in practice?   
  
  Q. Yes. Does he lift a bit more?   
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: No, he's more focused on the match, for sure. It's always different when you're practicing or playing Grand Slam.   
 But I play him last year in Roland Garros, too. I play him a few times in match. So he's always focused on the match.   
  
  Q. On his performance today, can you see him going on to win the title here, or do you think Rafa might have an edge on him at the minute?  
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Roger is always the same: when he's coming to the tournament, he can always win the tournament. But you need to see. You can see the last few Grand Slam, it's not always easy because Rafa is playing good, even Djokovic, Berdych, all the other player.   
 But for sure he can always win all the tournament.   
  
  Q. Do you have a hope yourself that one day you can pick up the Davis Cup trophy with Roger playing there?  
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: I'm not thinking about that, no, because last year I didn't play. And we're not in the World Group.   
 That's something I want to really play this year, to come back to the World Group. But I will wait until we need to decide to play Davis Cup. We'll wait and see. I don't care.   
  
  Q. How long have you been carrying your Homer Simpson around the world with you?  
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: It's a joke with a friend from the beginning of the year in Chennai. I'm doing some picture for Twitter, and all the fan are asking about some more picture. So we'll see how it's going to be this year.  
  
  Q. Roger played some incredible shots today. Do you get surprised by some of the shots he plays on court?   
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Not really. I know him. Everybody know him since some time. He world No. 1; he won a lot of Grand Slam. So we know how he can play. And today he was playing really good.   
  
  Q. How hard is it to play someone that you have a good friendship with? Do you have to blot out and pretend you don't see their face?  
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Yeah, for sure when you come to the court you need to play your match and be focused on what you want to do. And before the match or after the match, it's different.   
 But on the court, you really try to win the match.   
  
  Q. Have you had a chance to speak to him off the court, or do you need time away from him?  
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: No, no, it's fine. I didn't spoke to him. But there is no problem.   
  
  Q. You have some Czech background. Can you talk in the Czech language at home?  
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: I never used to talk in Czech language at home. It's from my grand-grandfather. My father don't speak Czech.  
  
  Q. So your grandfather was born in Czech Republic?  
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Grand-grandfather.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT