U.S. OPEN
September 7, 2010
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WAWRINKA/S. Querrey
  7-6, 6-7, 7-5, 4-6, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. After losing the fourth set, how did you get the momentum back in the fifth? How do you do that?
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Just trying to fight on every point. I knew he can be tired when you get to a long match. I was just focused on my game, especially with the serve, because I was not really happy with my serve. Didn't help me so much.
 Yeah, just trying to stay aggressive and keep staying on the match. 

 Q. A lot of unforced errors out there today. How much would you attribute to the windy conditions? They say it was one of the windiest conditions ever played in Arthur Ashe Stadium.
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Yeah, for sure it was really windy. Never easy to play that kind of match when it's windy, especially against Sam. He's a good player, and I know even if I make a lot of errors, I know I need to attack him and be very, very aggressive.

 Q. Reflect on how you feel you played today. 
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: I play a good match. I think my serve was not really good today, but the rest was quite okay. I try to adapt. With the condition, with the wind, was not easy. 
 But, yeah, I think I play a very good match.

 Q. When you get to a quarterfinal of a Grand Slam, that's a big accomplishment for you. Can you comment on what that means to you. 
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Yeah, it's the first time for me, so for sure I am very happy with that. It's something very important, and I knew before the match it's gonna be tough, but I was really focused on the match, to stay with him, to stay with my game, and to try to win that match.

 Q. In the fifth set you're obviously exhausted. Is it easier or harder to concentrate knowing there's a finish line there?
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: All depends, but today was maybe more easy for me than for him.
 But I knew the beginning of the fifth set was really important to keep my serve, because he was still serving very good and was putting me a lot of pressure.
 But then it change a little bit. He was really tired. It was not easy for him to stay in the match.

 Q. Did you feel like you just were physically fitter at the end?
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Yes. Yes, I think that. The last four games he was really tired, and was really difficult for him to stay with his game. He change his game because he was tired.

 Q. There are two guys from Switzerland in the quarterfinals and no Americans. What does that say about tennis in Switzerland and the U.S.?
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: No, that's good. (Laughter.) No, but Roger, he's always in quarterfinals since many years, so that's not something different.
 But for me, it's my first time, so it's something, yeah, important for my career.

 Q. Just giving that question a little bit of a different twist, in the past generation of course there was Rosset who was a fine player, but not at the very top. He was a fine player and very good, but not a dominant player. Then of course on the women's side Martina got five Slams, 209 weeks at No. 1. Roger and now yourself making a push. Is there anything in the Swiss culture as a whole that translates in any way to the tennis courts?
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Difficult to say something. I think we are just lucky because we have the two -- we have the best player in the world since ever, Roger, and we used to have Martina Hingis was the youngest No. 1 in the world.
 That's something happen to Switzerland. But I don't think that's mean because we have some good coach or some good stronger federation, because we don't have a lot of player. We just have some good player every generation.

 Q. You were aware that Querrey was the last American male in the tournament. Do you think that excited the crowd a little bit? Did that give you a little extra motivation?
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: No, yeah, I think for sure the crowd was hoping that he can stay in the tournament. But if you watch the match, they were very fair. For me it was great to play that kind of match with that crowd.

 Q. Mikhail next. Talk about your upcoming match. 
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Youzhny? 

 Q. Yeah, Youzhny. 
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Yeah, he's a tough player. He's really strong player from the baseline. He have a great backhand. We already play sometimes together. I think we always have a tough match.
 But it's gonna be difficult for me. I will see how I'm gonna be with my leg and how I can rest for Thursday, but I will be focused more on myself than him.

 Q. How is your leg? Are you hampered by your leg today?
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Yes, I have some problems since Murray's match, and still today. I hope with the tape was quite okay, but I still have some pain. I will see with the doctor and the physio.

 Q. Just a question about Nadal. You played him in Toronto not so long ago. Have you noticed any difference in his serving?
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Yeah, I think he's serving a little bit better. He have a tougher start of the tournament here, but I think he's gonna play -- he's gonna be stronger every match.

 Q. What is different about his serving?
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: He practice a lot, I think. (Smiling.)
 No, he change a little bit. He change more the direction, and that's why it's always difficult to play him.

 Q. Could you talk in general what it's like to play from the same country, from Roger, and the upsides and doubles partner and so forth? Are there any downsides? Are there any negatives to that?
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Yeah, we can talk all the night about that. 
 But, no, I already told so many times about my relation with Roger. We used to practice a lot together when I was younger and still now. He used to help me a lot when I arrive in the ATP Tour. 
 For sure for me was something great to have him on the tour as a friend and someone, a player who is No. 1 to help me a little bit.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT