U.S. OPEN
September 5, 2010
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WAWRINKA/A. Murray
  6-7, 7-6, 6-3, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. What was the problem with your leg? Is your leg okay?  
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Looks okay, but I will check after with the physio and the doctor. I got some little pain in the beginning of the second set.   
 Looks okay, but I will check later and tomorrow again.   
  
  Q. Andy said he thought that you served better, and that was a big key. Can you talk about your serve. Also emotionally it's a huge win for you obviously.   
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Yeah, I think the serve was one of the key of the match, for sure. I served pretty well. Beginning of the second set was not really good, but then I think that help me a lot to get some free points. It's always important against that kind of player.   
 But, no, I think all my game was pretty good. One of my best match, for sure. I was very aggressive. I was doing everything really good. So I'm very happy.   
  
  Q. Did you think about the Wimbledon match or the match here? Did you learn anything from them?  
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: I always think a little bit, but I was trying to stay focused and to really think about my game and what I need to do.   
 I think at the end of the first set I was playing a little bit too defensive. That's what I start to change in the second and third and fourth sets, to stay aggressive, even if he's coming, even if he's putting a lot of pressure.   
  
  Q. Pretty good atmosphere out there with the crowd?   
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Yeah, for sure. I love that court. It's amazing, for sure. When it's full, when you finish like we did, late, with a very good match, so it's for sure, one of my best match with the crowd.   
  
  Q. You're bigger news in Switzerland than any other tennis player right now.   
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: For sure not. (Smiling.)   
  
  Q. He's a very quick guy, a hard guy to dropshot. You did at the end. What was it like to try to move him around? He gets to so many balls.   
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Yeah, but I have the feeling he was a little bit injury. He was not feeling okay. So I was trying to stay aggressive and to make him run a lot, and I think I did pretty well.   
 So, yeah, then you try some shots, some good shots. You make what you feel, and you just play for the win.   
  
  Q. Can you talk a little bit about Sam Querrey. You had a fantastic match against him in Indian Wells. What sort of match do you expect?   
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Yeah, it was a crazy match again, but he's a very good player. I think he improve a lot the last two years. He's a strong player. Big serve, big backhand. Is never easy to play him.   
 If I can keep the same level, the serve for sure will be important for him, and to stay aggressive because he don't like to play on the defense and to be under pressure.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT