ROLEX MONTE-CARLO MASTERS
April 14, 2019
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. WAWRINKA/L. Pouille
7-5, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. You were trailing 3-5 in the first set.  What were your thoughts at that moment and how did you imagine to turn the match around?
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, I think the beginning was a bit tough.  I was a bit hesitating.  I was a bit slow.  I was nervous.  I was looking a little bit for the condition.  He took the advantage.  He broke me directly.
Then I start to play a bit better.  I start to know a little bit more what I had to do.  I broke back.  He did one mistake.  Then I did one good point and suddenly the match turned.  He felt under pressure.  I start to play a bit better, more aggressive, and I'm happy with the win.
Q. Your next opponent, it could be Marco Cecchinato or Damir Dzumhur.  Do you have any thoughts on those potential matchups?
STAN WAWRINKA: It's going to be interesting match, for sure.  Dzumhur, we played few times but only hard court or indoor, so I know a little bit more how to play against him.
I never played or practice with Cecchinato.  I saw him play many times.  Great player, especially on clay court.  He loves the clay court.  He's really a good player, so it's going to be an interesting match.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. This was a long day.  How did you feel when you actually entered into the court?  There were very few people in the public, and it was cold and it was windy.
STAN WAWRINKA: Obviously conditions were difficult for the players when it's cold and windy, but it was the same for the public.  I saw the previous match, and the conditions were not very good, either.
It is true that we love when the weather is nice and the conditions are very good and that everything is all right, but we have to deal whenever the weather conditions are not good.  Today it was cold, windy, slippery, and particularly in the first round we are all looking for confidence.  It was important for me to win.
Q. Do you feel fine with your level of tennis after your American season?  You needed to find more dynamism?
STAN WAWRINKA: I'm very glad that I won today.  That's for sure.  I feel fine physically, and from the tennis point of view, too.
This week on clay was good, and I know that my level is good.  Now I need to win matches, gain more confidence, and keep on winning.  I'm happy I managed to win this first round.  It was a complicated match, a difficult match.
Q. The victory of this tournament in Monte-Carlo in 2014, what does it represent?  What does the Monte-Carlo tournament represent for you?
STAN WAWRINKA: This has always been one of the best tournaments, and we like Monte-Carlo very much.  And the fact of actually having won here is very special for me.
We all think that Monte-Carlo is a very nice tournament.  We feel that way.  We say it.  We all say that.
For me, winning here, the final against Roger on that occasion, was just fantastic and I have great memories of that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT