DAVIS CUP FIRST ROUND: SWITZERLAND v USA
March 6, 2009
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WAWRINKA/J. Blake
  3-6, 6-4, 6-3, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Stanislas. 

 Q. Are you officially tired of answering questions about Roger Federer? 
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Yeah, a little bit. But I think it's not the moment to ask a question about Roger. You know, all the week it's normal. Roger is one of the best player ever in the world. Everybody wants to know how he's feeling, how he's doing, if he's still on the team or not. 
 Everybody in the team disappointed he's not here. But now we are on the weekend. We are playing match. We try to do the best this weekend. 

 Q. Talk about the responsibility that you felt leading the team without Roger. 
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Yeah, but for me it's not my first time without Roger, be No. 1 in the team. Twice I be the leader. I always try to push the team, to do my best, be an example for the team. 
 Today I was playing very good. The match, I'm very happy with the way I play, with all the support I get from the team. We have a great, great week practicing all together, great team spirit. Maybe that's why I won today. 

 Q. Did you come into this weekend feeling like you had to win all of your matches; that you would have to win two singles matches plus the doubles on Saturday?
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: I come this weekend, I think we are a team. We need to won three points. Is going to be very difficult because we are not favored. They are in the ranking better than all the team. 
 But I knew I need to won the first match. It was very tough. I try to play my best tennis to won against James. I'm very happy with the way I was playing. It was very important match for the rest of the weekend, I think. 

 Q. Did this match go the way you planned it out beforehand? Did you adjust to the way James was playing?
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: I knew Blake since long time. I always watching him. I like how he's playing. I know how he's playing. I think he was playing like he's doing every time. He's playing very good, actually. 
 I'm very happy with my game. I was focused on what I need to do to stay with the serve, to stay aggressive from the baseline, and to try to come to the net. 
 But he was tough today. But I think the serve was the key of the match. 

 Q. With Roger out, do you feel there's more pressure on you individually or do you feel there's less pressure on the entire team, since not many people expect you to win?
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Maybe the both. I think if you try to do the best, and you do the best... I cannot won every match. I cannot win everybody every time when he's not here. I try to play my best tennis to help the team, and we'll see how is gonna be the weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT