DAVIS CUP FIRST ROUND: SWITZERLAND v USA
March 8, 2009
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RODDICK/S. Wawrinka
  6-4, 6-4, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Can you tell if fatigue played any factor in your match today, playing two tough matches leading into this?   
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Of course, we see it was a tough match for me. But I think Andy played a great match. He was serving very good. No mistakes from the baseline. It was tough and difficult for me to stay aggressive.   
 Of course, I'm a little tired with the two first days. But, yeah, it was tough to be aggressive and to come to the net a lot of times because that's what I need to do against Andy.   
  
  Q. Talk about facing Andy's serve. Not only does he put pressure on you with your serve, but you have a lot of pressure to hold. How hard is it to play him in that respect?  
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Yeah, of course, is always the same when you play a player like that who have a big, big serve. Is always more pressure on my serve.   
 Today he was not only serving good, but he was playing very good. Like I said before, he never give me a point. I need to take every points. It was difficult to do that all the match.   
  
  Q. What was the problem with your left shoulder?   
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Yeah, but it was nothing special. I have already against James in the start of the game. It was just muscle. I don't know how to say in English.   
  
  Q. What was your strategy coming into the match? Were you looking to play longer points or did you want to attack more and come to the net?   
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Yeah, the strategy was to attack him. When he give some short ball, you need to come to the net to take care of the balls, to push him a lot.   
 He was playing too good for me today to do that.   
  
  Q. How does Birmingham compare in terms of other cities as far as a venue for a Davis Cup tie?   
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: It was a very nice week for us. But we stay like 20 minutes from the stadium. But it was a very nice hotel. Everything was very good. The organization was perfect. We have a nice hotel. We get everything we want.   
 The stadium all the weekend was very nice, too.   
  
  Q. Where does the team go from here? You go into relegation. Do you expect Roger to come back? Do you not know?   
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Just after the match, I don't care a little bit. I'm disappointed with the weekend. To lost, of course, before the match we was not favorite. But I'm just disappointed with my match today. Yeah, I'm tired, too. I'll be waiting. I don't know when is the draw. I think Thursday or something like that. We'll see after which country we gonna play.   
  
  Q. Do you think Roger will play?   
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: I don't know. I think we need to ask him or you need to ask him.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT