XXIX OLYMPIC GAMES
August 13, 2008
Roger Federer
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  FEDERER-WAWRINKA/Tursunov-Youzhny  
6-4, 6-3  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Can you explain how you saw your singles match today? Seemed to be playing fantastic against Tomas today.   
 ROGER FEDERER: Yeah, I mean, I thought I did play a good match. Wish I didn't have the break of serve where I served three double-faults. You know, that's quite unusual. Other than that, I thought it was a good performance. I moved well, played good from the baseline, was solid on the return. That's really what I could hope for.   
 Conditions were really, really humid out there again, so it made it tricky to play. But I think maybe Tomas helped a little bit in the second set, not serving very well on his first serve. But I was able to break his serve down a little bit by returning it really well. So I'm very happy with this win because I think this was the first true test in this tournament.   
  
  Q. I know you have a nice winning streak going against Tomas the last few years. But how much was the 2004 match on your mind going into this, if at all?   
 ROGER FEDERER: Well, we've played plenty of times in between, obviously. But, of course, you have memories of such a big tournament and losing. I got it out of my system I guess the first time I beat him again. You know, I think it was Hamburg I beat him 1-2. But it was clay obviously.   
 I mean, it was nice to get him back I guess on the Olympic level. But I think it must have been maybe a little bit hard for him as well, right? He beat me four years ago, and after he's the guy who beat Roger Federer at the Olympics for a year. Sort of what happened to me after I beat Sampras at Wimbledon.   
 You know, it can play on your mind a little bit. But I guess he followed up pretty good. But I think he's still got some potential left. He's a good player. That's why I'm quite relieved I got through this tough third round.   
  
  Q. If we talk on Monday, looking back, you've won an Olympic medal, do you think it's going to be more in singles or doubles?   
 ROGER FEDERER: Look, I don't know. Chances are -- am I in the quarterfinals in singles, as well? Both quarters. Yeah, I mean, we've been playing well in doubles. Obviously now our opponents are getting more difficult in singles and doubles. In doubles, obviously we've got some very experienced players in the next round. In singles, James is always extremely dangerous to play against, even though I have a great streak against him.   
 If I would have to bet my house on it, I probably would bet on the singles, but you never know. Doubles, everything is possible, especially at the moment.   
  
  Q. Do you feel still fresh, playing singles and doubles?   
 ROGER FEDERER: No, I'm pulling out tomorrow, singles and doubles. I'm leaving (laughter).   
 No, I feel fine. Matches haven't been that tough. I've been only playing straight sets. Of course, it's hot. We finished late. But we can sleep in. Matches don't start till 4. That's the only positive side.   
 I find it a little bit ridiculous that we're playing maybe 13 matches in seven days, to be honest. You know, I know it rained the first day. But quite honestly, I don't understand why we don't play such a big tournament over 10 days maybe. That's the only regret I have at the moment because I think this is asking just a little bit too much and too much trouble.   
  
  Q. You play singles and doubles. You might get yourself exhausted. What about US Open? What is your plan on the US Open?   
 ROGER FEDERER: My plan? To win.   
 I don't know. I mean, have a good time in New York, party, Broadway shows, good restaurants, hang out with some friends I haven't seen for a year. Yeah, I mean that's the plan.   
 No, I mean, I'm at the Olympic Games right now. I'm trying to win medals here, then we'll see how the US Open goes. But the thing I know is as soon as this is over, I'm going to the US Open to prepare as good as I can. So I'm ready to win the last Grand Slam of the year.   
  
  Q. Stan, what is it like for you? You're the second guy alongside the great star here. How are you enjoying the experience of going for a realistic medal with Roger?   
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: Of course, for me it's my first Olympics, so it's a great experience to be in the village and have the chance to play with Roger. So honestly I just enjoy to be there and to play the doubles with him.   
  
  Q. Besides having to towel off all the time and wear wristbands, you said something about the humidity made it tricky to play. How does it do that other than you're wet all the time?  
 ROGER FEDERER: Yeah, I mean, the racquet gets wet, grip gets wet, slippery. I mean, except in Dubai in practice, I never have to towel off basically after every point I play. We're talking maybe, you know, rallies are pretty short here considering. That makes it hard, just having the proper feeling on the grip. Thank God I change my racquet very often so the grip gets fresh again.   
 But, you know, just being I guess wet all over, sweat in your eyes, it's just a bit tricky. But I've gotten used to it over the years, whereas in the beginning this would have been unbearable for me. I really struggled in the humidity when I was younger.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT