U.S. OPEN
September 4, 2007
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 

 Q.  You're up a break in the fifth.  Did he lift his level or did you just not convert on the big points? 
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA:  Yeah, I think I break in the first game, and then I think he play better than he was playing.  It was really tough for me to continue on this way. 

 Q.  Did he show you anything different in terms of tactics or his game from last year when you beat him? 
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA:  Not really.  You know, it was a match in five set.  It was very difficult for him and for me. 
 I think we play a good level.  But he play very well at the end of the fifth set, so I think he deserve to win. 

 Q.  Obviously disappointing outcome.  But in your eyes has this been a successful tournament?  Can you take a lot of positives away? 
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA:  Yes, for me it's a really good tournament because it's the first time I was in the 16.  I lost in the fifth set.  But I'm very happy with my game, with all the first one how I won everything. 

 Q.  Do you enjoy the atmosphere of playing in the US Open? 
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA:  Yeah, it depends of the match.  But I think because -- I think it's a good atmosphere.  The people was very good today, and in the match against Ginepri.  Depends the day.  Depends against who you play. 

 Q.  You had a very good record in five-set matches coming into today.  Do you try to do anything different in the fifth set?  Play more conservatively?  Aggressively? 
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA:  No, I just try to be focus on every point, to be ready to have a good fight in the fifth set.  I don't have anything. 

 Q.  Did you feel strong?  Were you getting tired? 
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA:  Yes, I'm feeling strong when you know the match is long and everything.  But today was very difficult for me to play four hours.  Yeah, no, nothing. 

 Q.  This was your third five-set match in four rounds.  Did that affect you?  Have you played that much before? 
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA:  Yes, I think today I lose because I play two match before in fifth set, four hours.  Today was very difficult physically to play an to stay in the same level. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT