MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 7, 2019
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WAWRINKA/P. Herbert   
6-2, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  That was a convincing win for you today.  How did you feel out there?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I felt good.  It was a great match, a first great match.  I have been playing good on the practice court, feeling really good, so it was important to start well today and I'm happy with the first match.   
 Q.  Stan, you have been practicing well and you have had some tight losses recently.  It seems like you are trending upwards and that things are going to click soon.  Does it feel that way for you?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yes, I hope it is going to click soon.  I'm patient enough to know that sometimes it takes time.  I do believe that I'm playing well, I'm feeling well on the court and I still have some big result inside me so hopefully it can come sooner than later, but I'm ready to keep working the right way to get back in a better place and to win more matches and hopefully get later in the tournament.   
 Q.  It was a very good letter you wrote, even if you wrote it to the wrong paper.  
STAN WAWRINKA: (Laughing) You didn't offer me the time.   
 Q.  Did you have much reaction from other players, or have people been talking to you about it, or not so much?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yes, I think this letter meant people talked a lot in general, that's for sure.  Not only players, but outside players.  Yeah, I did receive a lot of comments.   
 Q.  Was it mixed, was it a mixed group of comments?  Did some people like it, or some people not?  
STAN WAWRINKA: (Laughing) I do believe that most of the people who came to me was a positive comment.  The one that didn't like it, I don't think they are really going to attend me.   
 Q.  Why did you feel so strongly about you had to say something when so many players didn't and still don't really?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I think I have always been saying what I think in general.  Already, when some things were happening at the beginning of the year, I was talking freely.  I really wanted to have this opportunity to write this letter and I wanted to really write what I was feeling, the way I was feeling, the way I was seeing things in general in to the tennis tour and I'm happy I did it.   
 Q.  And do you think that they should consider what to do about the president's contract again now that there's a different board?  
STAN WAWRINKA: My opinion, yes, but that's just my opinion.  And I have always been saying that since the beginning.  But if you look a little bit what sort of player are starting to say now and starting to think, maybe it will happen or not.  But I do believe, yes.   
 Q.  I saw the picture of you and Novak smiling.  Is he one of the people you would want to talk to about these issues since he is the council president?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, we had a talk after the practice session.  I think it was important to talk to each other, at least I wanted to talk with him.  We had a good talk.  It's all good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT