BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 10, 2019
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WAWRINKA/M. Fucsovics   
6-4, 6-7, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Roger Federer next.  Will you be recovered and ready for that one, you think?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, I will be.  No, but it's going to be tough match, for sure.  He's the best player to ever play the sport.  Stats against each other are really, really not in my favor.  Yeah, I think it's great for me.   
Most important is to win two matches here, to win the way I won tonight.  It was tough battle, fighting, staying there physically, tennis-wise, mentally, also.  Those match I know that can help me to get some big result.   
 Q.  Have you been in a match like that when there is 48 break points?  I think you saved 21 of 25.  Crazy numbers.  What's your thoughts on it overall?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, the score, the time on the court, sure, those stats for sure was crazy match.  We played last year against each other in Toronto.  Was 1-6, 7-6, 7-6, four match points, 12-10 in the tiebreak of the third.  Yeah, we know that we play some tough match against each other.   
Tonight was the case again.  Was some up and down in the level, but in general I think we went for it.  We tried the best we could, and the level for three hours, 25, time, it was good level.   
 Q.  Talk a little bit about the atmosphere out there.  It was pretty a good scene.  Were you hearing all of it during the match, or do you tune yourself out?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, no, it's amazing.  It's great.  I think here it's one of the best tournaments with atmosphere, with fans, how you can see all day on every court already from the quallie.  Also yesterday with doubles was something really special.   
And tonight was really, really good.  It really helped me to get there.  That's the reason and also why I'm still playing.  It's to get the atmosphere like that, to get support like that.  It's something really special.   
 Q.  You have a lot of respect for Fucsovics.  I saw you embrace at the net.  What makes him such a tough player?  
STAN WAWRINKA: He's a really good tennis player, really physical.  He's moving well.  He's going for it.  He can do everything, you know.  He played I think one year really good.  He really get better in the ranking, and he's winning some big matches.  Yeah, he's a tough player.   
 Q.  I see during the match you were kind of like telling the crowd to get into it, putting your hands in the air.  Is that something you think about intentionally, I want to get the crowd involved?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I think it just comes, because I know it help me, give me positive energy.  Sometimes when you're struggling or when I'm struggling and mentally I'm not like completely where I want to be, it kind of help me to refocus and to get really this positive energy.   
Yeah, I love it, and I enjoy it.   
 Q.  Looking forward to the next match, you played Roger well on all surfaces but beaten him three times on clay.  Can you technically explain what you're able to do well against him or clay and what he is not able to do as well on clay as he would be able to do on other surfaces?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, I think maybe on clay, first my game is a bit more stronger, I have a little bit more time.  I can use more topspin, playing more heavy on his backhand, push him more from the baseline.  I think on the hard courts he can always play a little bit quicker.  He can come to the net more.  He can mix a little bit more.   
Yeah, it's always been really difficult to play him.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT