U.S. OPEN
August 31, 2018
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. RAONIC/S. Wawrinka   
7-6, 6-4, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Seemed like a few points here or there.  What did you think of your level?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, I think in general the level was quite high, quite good from my side.  I was feeling good, moving well, playing some good shots.  For sure the first set got few points there, some set point on my serve, breakpoint.  But that's what happen when you play Milos, you don't have a lot of chance, but you need to take them.   
Today I wasn't strong enough, tough enough in important points.  In the key points, I was a bit soft.   
 Q.  Where would you say you are in terms of your comeback now?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I think right now for sure after the loss, I would say it's a bad loss because I still think was a lot of more space for me tonight.  But again, as I say, I wasn't tough enough with myself.  I wasn't strong and there enough.   
But I think if I look the last few weeks now, the American tour, I think it was really positive.  I think for sure after Wimbledon I would have signed to be where I am right now, talking about my level, talking about my tennis, I'm talking about my fitness, I'm talking about being able to play at that level for many hours, being able to practice hard.   
I think it's going really well.  After a year, I finally feel really good on the court.  Now I need to keep working the same direction and keep playing tournament, keep playing match to get this mental toughness a little bit more often and get used to it a little bit more.   
 Q.  When you say you weren't tough enough, do you think it was the effect of so many matches or being tired?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I don't think I was tired at all today.  I think I was feeling the best since the beginning of the tournament.  I think is just you need to get used at that level again.  It's not only about the tennis, to get back at that level, not only about the fitness, but it's also about the mental, to know exactly those little moment that everything is clear, you go for it, you do it, you don't get soft.   
That's what happened tonight.  I got a little bit tight, I got a little bit of hesitation on a few points.  I know exactly a match like that, it's not going to be 20 points, it's going to be maybe four, three points, but those points can completely change a match.  Tonight he was stronger than me.   
 Q.  What is your schedule for the season?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Normally I'm playing, yeah, for sure St. Petersburg, Tokyo, Shanghai, Basel, Paris.  That's what it look like.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT