U.S. OPEN
August 29, 2018
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WAWRINKA/U. Humbert   
7-6, 4-6, 6-3, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Obviously very difficult conditions out there.  You had quite a battle on your hands.  Just talk about the match and also the feelings of getting out on top.  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, it was tough conditions today.  Quite hot and humid last few days, already yesterday.   
But a battle to play a player that never played before, young player.  He's been playing really well this summer, recently: qualifier, won a match, lefty, doesn't give you a lot of rhythm.  Playing great game.   
I think was also not only hot and humid, but also windy on the court.  Was fine more than Monday and was tough to play best match, best game.  But I'm happy.  I think it was a great battle.  Was for sure tough fitness-wise, but I think I handled it pretty well.   
Happy to have won the match in four sets, three hours or so.  Feeling okay after the match.  So I'm happy with that.   
 Q.  What changes, if any, did you make after you lost the second set?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, I think I went down a bit after being set and break up.  Lost a little bit my focus on the right things.  I was trying to play my game, to play better on the condition like today.  I wasn't feeling great all the match.  I wasn't feeling the ball the best.  I would have loved to.   
But I think was important to stay mentally there, to stay trying to play a lot of balls, trying to play aggressive.  As I say it was tough conditions for both players, so I just wanted to stay there.   
 Q.  After that kind of match in those kind of conditions, how realistic is it for you to have your best form in the next round?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, we will see.  I think we can be surprised either way.  I think for sure today was tough.  For sure it's the first time that I feel really physically full before starting it.   
But again, my level is there.  I'm playing really good tennis.  When I'm playing good, for sure, it's -- I'm 33 years old, first time after big surgery that I'm pushing myself that much, but in general, I think I did enough hard work to know and have confidence in my fitness.  So we will see.   
I think there is good chance that I'm playing better the next round than today, so I'm positive with that.  I will do everything possible to get my body ready for it and my game should be there.   
 Q.  In a way, as a follow-up, conditions that brutal, does that give you more confidence to have survived it?  
STAN WAWRINKA: It doesn't give me more confidence.  It's just putting my body into a big test.  That's for sure.   
But for sure it's tough conditions for every player.  Yesterday also.  Today again.  You can be happy when you get through.   
 Q.  If the conditions stay the same as they are now, which players do you think are best suited to coping in it?  
STAN WAWRINKA: They will not stay the same, so doesn't look like (smiling).  I don't know.  I think it's really brutal conditions.  We saw yesterday with a lot of player pulling out in matches.  I also think that it's more than in what we had then, and especially last few weeks.  I also think that we played, like, Toronto, Cincinnati, was a lot of rain.  We didn't get any big day like today in the past tournaments.   
So also, that's a big shock directly to have it.  It's tough conditions for everybody.   
 Q.  Do you think Roger, scheduled to play in the daytime tomorrow, will be shock to walk on to Arthur Ashe?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I think he has another experience to know how to handle those conditions, also.   
 Q.  Talk about your matchup with Milos.  
STAN WAWRINKA: Big match, that's for sure.  He playing well.  Also he had some injuries, had some struggles.  But I think he's playing great tennis.  He's always been a tough opponent to play.  Serving big, putting a lot of pressure, going for it.  Don't get a lot of chance to break him, but you need to take them.   
I think we always had really tough match against each other.  I'm expecting it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT