ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
November 3, 2020
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. WAWRINKA/D. Evans
6-3, 7-6
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. How did you feel about how you played today, and what's your mindset entering this tournament?
STAN WAWRINKA:   Yeah, I was playing well.  I'm happy with the match, with the level.  I think the level has been good.
Was happy to be back here in Paris, even without crowd it's always a great tournament.  We are lucky to still have some tournaments going, so trying to enjoy as much as possible.
Q. Wondering what you feel about your form at the moment?  How is it looking ahead to next year?  Do you think you're going to be challenging for the biggest titles in 2021?
STAN WAWRINKA:   I think in general my form has been going okay.  It's been going well.  I'm playing well.  I still need to work on many, many aspects.  But, yeah, as I say, going to be the last tournament here so I'm trying to do as well as possible, trying to keep pushing myself.
I'm close to the end of my career, but I also believe I have one last push that I really want to, again, one more time push myself to the limit, make the sacrifice that you need to make to be at my top, and I'm trying to do that.  I'm going to try to even push it more during the off-season and see what next year bring.
Q. Last month Federer said one of his goals for next year is Tokyo Olympics.  I would like to know if you speak sometimes with Roger about playing together in doubles in Tokyo?
STAN WAWRINKA:   No, we didn't talk about Olympic.  I think this is far away from what's happening now, not only in the tennis schedule but with what's happening in the world right now.
I think it's difficult to plan and to talk about in nine months where we're gonna be.  No, we didn't talk about it yet.
Q. This was your second win over Dan Evans in the last couple of weeks, and you have never lost to him in five career matches.  Can you explain why you match up so well against him and why you were able to succeed against him this afternoon?
STAN WAWRINKA:   I think he's always been a tough opponent.  If we look at the scores, I saved match point in St. Petersburg, got lucky a little bit, saved match point in US Open, three sets in Indian Wells.  Tough sets today.
Yeah, he's tough player.  Always been playing good match against him.  It's not easy to get through him.
But, yeah, in general like today, I think was one of my best match that I played against him.
Q. Were you surprised despite the craziness of this season you have put together 20 wins and you're in the top 20?  Does this surprise you, or do you feel that you're meeting or exceeding your expectations on this season?
STAN WAWRINKA:   No, it doesn't surprise me.  I start new year really well, and then we were in lockdown for many months.
Again, as I say, I think in general I'm playing well.  I'm feeling good.  But not yet at the maximum I feel, and I'm going to take the next few weeks to try to push it for next year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT