WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 15, 2018
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WAWRINKA/K. Nishikori   
6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How pleased were you with how you played today, especially that you managed to beat the rain?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, I'm really happy with the match, with the level.  I think from 1-4 down I start to play really well, moving well, changing a lot of rhythm, being really aggressive, playing the right game.   
For sure one of the great match I played, so I'm happy with the level and to have one more win here.   
 Q.  Looking ahead to tomorrow, hopefully if the weather actually holds up, you play Marton Fucsovics again after that crazy epic in Toronto last week.  So what are some of the things you feel you have to do well?  Because there was only a few points that decided the match last time.  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, for sure, was big battle, winning, saving four match points.  It's only one point can change the match.   
So it's a different tournament.  It's a bit faster here.  I feel like for sure I gain a lot of confidence from last week.  By winning two matches, I start to feel better on the court, to move better.   
So I need to keep focusing on what I'm doing, keep trying to play my game, being aggressive.  Today I was moving really well on the court in defense, in attack, in passing, in dropshot, everything.   
So I feel -- I feel great.  Now I need to recover, to rest, and to be ready for tomorrow and it's a big battle.   
 Q.  With all the matches last week and obviously a few here this week, do you feel you're almost all the way back to where you want to be, or still a little work to do?  
STAN WAWRINKA: No, I feel it's getting there.  For sure there is still a lot of work to do.  I need to see how it's going to be the next few weeks, how I'm going to handle everything.   
For sure I want to win as much as I can.  I feel today I was feeling great on the court.  I'm going to see how I feel tomorrow again.  But as I say, since a few weeks, I need to just take patience with myself, to accept things that's happening but still working out, working the right way, doing the right stuff off the court every day, day by day, and by doing that, I know that I will get there.   
 Q.  I'm not sure, but is Magnus...  
STAN WAWRINKA: Is not here.   
 Q.  But he's coming to US Open?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yes, next week.   
 Q.  You just mentioned patience.  That can be something very difficult when you're high-performing and used to being able to do everything you want.  How did you work through that so that you can have the patience and not get frustrated?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Was quite tough, I have to say.  There was some really tough moments.  It's been a year now.  Today, for sure, I'm smiling, I'm happy.  I won two matches here.  I beat Nishikori playing a great level.   
I feel like that what happened last year it's really far, but in the same times, if I'm remember few weeks ago, it was still really tough for me.   
I need a lot of talk with my team, a lot of focus on the right thing, accepting things that's happening, accepting that it takes time, that you need to be patient, knowing where you want to go.  As I say, you need to do the right things every day and take a little bit distance with the result directly; not the result, I mean, winning matches but the result of how you improved, because you can have a lot of up-and-down after a big surgery like that.   
So that's always tough that mentally you need to accept.  But for sure today it's easy to talk about it, but I had some really tough moments.   
 Q.  Can you elaborate on what your partnership will be with Magnus going forward, how much he will be involved?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I don't know (smiling).  Honestly, we only did the schedule until US Open, so we need to just see how we gonna handle the rest of the year.   
When we start again in April, we did the schedule until US Open, basically.  For sure I'm sure we both want to keep going.  I also have Yannick, I have the rest of my team with me, so we trying to find the right balance for everybody to be happy.   
 Q.  When was the operation last year?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Last year, in August.   
 Q.  I mean, what day?  
STAN WAWRINKA: The first one was the 5th and the second was, like, the 13th.   
 Q.  So it was 15th?  
STAN WAWRINKA: 13th.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT