INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 13, 2018
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. JOHNSON/S. Wawrinka
6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Okay.  Let's start with questions for Stan, please.
Q. How did you feel on the court today?  And I guess, obviously, after nearly a three-month break, what kind of positives can you take, even in this loss?
STAN WAWRINKA: I'm, for sure, disappointed with the result, that's for sure.  Would have loved to win.
But I think, for me, if I really look where I am right now, I'm really happy. I think, in general, my level is really high, is better than what I expected.
So, really start tennis only twelve days ago.  So I'm happy.  I'm happy with the level I have in practice.  I'm happy with physically where I am right now.  I feel quite good, I have to say, on the court.
Today, for sure, I was nervous during the match.  A lot of hesitation with my game, with my movement and everything.  So, quite tight with my body.  And that's going to make a big difference, especially for me, the way I move and the way I play.
Even with that, was a tough match.  I could have changed one, two point could have changed the match.
But, in general, I think I'm happy to see where I am right now.
Q. Do you mind walking us through just the decision to stop playing?  Because you came back in January and then stopped playing, and you said you just got back twelve days ago.  Was there a different prognosis for your injury?  What was going on?
STAN WAWRINKA: No, I think when I came back in Australia, it was quite clear that I wasn't ready at all.  I wasn't at my top physically.
And, also, tennis for me it was important to play matches, to test my knee, to see where I was.  How I would handle the pressure of the match, playing against the top guys two hours, four hours a day, just to see.
But I've always been clear that I was far away from my level, in any way.
So, I wanted just to play a few tournaments to test the knee, to test the surgery, what we did.  And after that, I was positive to see that the knee was doing okay.
But, I knew I needed a lot of time to work on my fitness, to work after the tennis but more on my fitness.  Because I was far from my level.  I had also a lot of pain in few movements. For that, you need time to make it disappear.
And that's what I did when I stopped after Marseille.  I went back to doing fitness almost every day for like three months.  And I work a lot.  It was tough.  It was some tough weeks.
But, honestly, I'm really happy to see where I am right now.
Q. So, if you could like scale your situation right now, how far do you think you are from I wouldn't say the top level but for an acceptable level for yourself?
STAN WAWRINKA: Honestly, if I look, my level in practice physically and, also, tennis, I think I'm close for my top level.
I still have a lot of work to do.  I still need a lot of time, play matches, keep trying to play week after week to find the confidence back.
Because it can take time.  You can see with other player coming back from a long and tough injury, it's never easy.  It's not only about physical or tennis but also about mentality to find confidence.
It's just I need to be patient.  I need to keep working out but be patient.
But again, as I say, I'm positive because my level is already really high.  And I know that it will come.
Q. I believe you're back with Magnus, or is this a long-term thing or is this -- can you try and tell us?
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah.  We will see.  We will see, I think.
He came into town when I could start to practice full in tennis, so it was only two weeks ago, to help the team.
And since that, we still see how it's gonna happen.  But, for sure, he's gonna keep working with me.  Hopefully, the full year.
Q. You and Andy, the last sort of year, shared in common your time out of the game.  You've been out of the game for a while.  I just wonder, when you were on the sidelines watching tennis from afar, did you speak to him at all on the phone? Because it's not a nice experience to sort of be out of tennis and watching it from afar.  Did you share your thoughts and experience with him at all?
STAN WAWRINKA: With Andy?
Q. Yeah.
STAN WAWRINKA: Not the last few weeks, for sure.
A few months ago, we talked a little bit to take some news from each other.  So, we didn't speak recently.
Q. I guess, how did you get through this period mentally?  Did you even think of speaking to a sports psychologist or even speaking to anybody?  Because this is rare for you to be away for a while.
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah.  As I said, it was really tough.  I had some tough moments, especially when, after seven months, the surgery, after surgery, you still have pain, you still have things that you cannot do.  You question yourself a lot.  And you --
I had some days I wasn't so sure I will be strong enough to keep working and to keep trying.  But, I had the chance to have a great team around me.  That's really helped me to get through those tough, tough days that you need to keep going to your fitness, keep trying even with the pain and keep pushing.  And try to just put all the negative thoughts outside and just to see the line and keep being patient.
Again, as I said, for me, it's completely different now the way I am mentally.  Because, as I said, since two weeks, I can practice full without - - almost without any pain.
So, it's quite enjoyable to see that.  And now, I can finally really talk about tennis, focus on what's my game, trying to improve, trying to find my game.  And that's really good after so long.
Q. Obviously, the French Open is around the corner; and I know that you have a lot of points to defend there.  I'm just wondering how are you keeping your expectations in check?  And how much are you going to be playing even before Paris?
STAN WAWRINKA: As I say, I need to be really patient with -- and accept a loss like today.  If I'm frustrated and I feel like I can win the match today, I have to be patient with everything. It's going to happen in the next few months.
But, in the same time, I'm pushing myself to get some win, to get some matches.  I'm gonna try to play as many tournament as I can because I've been practicing enough for the last few months.  So now, I just want to play match.  Get to the rhythm, so on those important point ...
And I know that it can turn quickly.  One match, two match can go quick.  So, I'm focusing on trying to do that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT