AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2018
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








T. SANDGREN/S. Wawrinka
6-2, 6-1, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How tough of a match was that for you physically?
STAN WAWRINKA: Quite tough, as you can see on the court.
Yeah, match like that I don't enjoy, that's for sure.  Never easy to feel that way on the court.  But I need to be still positive.  I think the last 12 days was more than what I could have dream coming here.  I really came without thinking I will be able to play the first match.  That's a big step for me.
If I look really back, I only had surgery five months ago, five months and three days.  To be that far already, it's more than what we could have expect with my team.  For sure, today was extremely tough to feel that way on the court, to lose that way, even if he was playing well.
When you won three Grand Slam, you don't feel great on the court like today.  But I need to take what I can to be positive with everything, with the big picture.  That's the most important.
Q. Did you consider retiring at all tonight?  Looked like you were struggling.
STAN WAWRINKA: No, no, because I was struggling with everything, not the knee especially.  The knee was still handling well.  As long as I enter on the court, and I don't feel any big injury, I'm not going to retire.  I was trying to fight.  I knew it will be difficult to come back or to play better at the end.
Again, I was here to fight and to try everything I could.
Q. Do you think you're where you should be at this time of the rehab, a bit behind?
STAN WAWRINKA: No, I think I'm way ahead of what I should be, that's for sure.  That's why I need to be positive.
But as an athlete, when you enter a court, you don't want to lose that straight in the second round, you don't want to feel that way on the court.  It's tough right now.  As I say, I like to win.  I don't like to lose, and not feeling that way.
But I'm sure if I look really what happened the last 12 days, I can build a lot of confidence for the next few months because every day I was improving.  Even today my knee was feeling way better than two days ago.  If I look the big picture, I know it's really positive.
Q. What are your plans for the next couple months?  Where do you plan to play next?
STAN WAWRINKA: My plan is to leave here and go back to practice, back to practice especially fitness-wise at the beginning, then both together with tennis.  I know I have a lot of work to do.  I need to be really patient.  It's going to be tough.  But I'm ready for it.
I think, again, a lot of confidence here.  I'm ready for that.  The next tournament will be Marseille and Rotterdam.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT