THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2017
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. MEDVEDEV/S. Wawrinka
6-4, 3-6, 6-4, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How would you assess that?  You seemed to be struggling a little bit with the knee problem.  How much of a bearing did that have on the result?
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, for sure, I wasn't feeling the way I wanted to feel.  But play against a great player who I think was confident today, was playing well, was playing faster.  Was a tough lost.
Q. You also lost first round at Queen's.  Not a great grass court season for you.  Do you worry about coming and playing again on grass?  Do you feel you played two strong opponents on the surface?
STAN WAWRINKA: For sure was a bad grass court two tournament for me.  That's clear.  First one was not what I wanted.  Unfortunately it's like that.  I had some problem with the knee since Queen's, so was not the way I wanted to get ready for this tournament.
Today was tough.  I was expecting to feel a little bit better.  When I play a player that level, it's difficult to win.  He went for it, was playing well, so it was a tough, tough day.
Q. What is the knee problem?  Were you very worried before the start of the tournament that you wouldn't be able to play your best?
STAN WAWRINKA: It's not something new, but something I had in the past.  End of last year and also in Australia.
But, again, since I had that problem, was the first time I'm playing on grass.  Apparently grass is not the best surface for my knee.  I need to figure it out exactly what's the problem now, what I'm going to do, and come back on the tennis court when I will feeling without any pain.
Q. Medvedev is a player on paper who never won a slam before, but clearly he's at a high level.  What are your thoughts on him today?  What was difficult about playing him?
STAN WAWRINKA: He's a really good player, that's for sure.  I was expecting a tough match.  Saw him playing last couple of week on grass.  He's playing really well on grass.  He's playing fast and flat ball.  He's moving quite good.  He loves the grass to play his game.
Yeah, he's a really dangerous player.
Q. What is the plan for you the next few days?  Are you trying to find out your knee problem?  Are you planning a long period of rest?  Do you think it will be a couple of weeks' rest or longer that?
STAN WAWRINKA: Honestly, I don't know.  I don't know.  I was expecting that the two weeks between the first loss in Queen's and now was feeling better.  But was not enough.  I don't know.  I need to really see with my team, with my doctor when I come back home.
What's sure is that I'm going to take the time I need to feel ready again physically.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT