AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2018
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WAWRINKA/R. Berankis   
6-3, 6-4, 2-6, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How does it feel to be back?  You started off very well, had a hiccup in the third set, down a break in the fourth set.  How was the match?  How did you feel?  
STAN WAWRINKA: No, it's great to be back.  It's great to win, for sure.  Was a tough one in all aspect of the game, of the energy.   
But in general, I'm really happy to get through a match like that, to fight the way I did today, to win the match like this.   
 Q.  Any pain at all?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, some pain, for sure.  As I say, I still have some pain.  It depends the way I'm moving, how I push on it.  In general, it's going the right direction.  That's the best news.  To see that the knee is keeping it, that I can play a match with the stress, back being tight, with hesitation.  The knee that doesn't move even after three hours, so that's great.   
 Q.  Did you go to the players meeting the other night?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yes, I went (smiling).   
 Q.  What was your view of what happened?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Honestly, I know you're not going to like, but I've been out for six months, playing my first match today.  For me, I have absolutely nothing to talk about all the politic things in the tour right now because what I'm doing, the way I'm coming back, it's too important compared to the rest.   
 Q.  With your injury, are you going to cut down your season, play selective tournaments?  
STAN WAWRINKA: We'll see.  We'll see.  I don't think I will change much.  The plan is the opposite:  to play a bit more if the knee is keeping because I didn't play for six months.   
First was to come here, see I was able to play.  I won the first match.  I'm going to focus on the tournament.  I know that after that, I have a lot of work to do still.  I need to be really patient because I have a lot of fitness and practice to do if I want to get back to my level.   
But I think there's a lot of positive right now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT