THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2017
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  It looks like when you come to a Grand Slam, your attitude always changes.  In the other tournaments you have some ups and downs.  When Grand Slams come, you are always fighting for the title.  Is it because it's a different feeling?  A question of motivation?  Maybe because best-of-five suits more your game?  
STAN WAWRINKA: No, not for sure it's a question of motivation.  I will not be playing as well if I wasn't motivated than the other tournaments.  For me, there's many few reasons.   
Again, I'm always trying to improve, be at my top in any tournament.  Best feeling in tennis is to win trophy.  Doesn't matter which tournaments you play, you always look and try for that.   
So far in general I'm really happy with the last four years.  I think I've been playing amazing tennis.  So let's see what's going to happen.   
 Q.  Of course you have broken through at the other majors.  Why do you think at Wimbledon there hasn't been somebody other than Federer, Nadal, Djokovic, and Murray to win here during the last 15 years?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Because they have been dominating the tennis the last 10, 15 years, almost every year.  That's for sure.  And Wimbledon is probably the most challenging Grand Slam for any player.  You play on grass.  It's the only time of the year you play on grass.  There is only three weeks.  Because they've been so good compared to every other player the last 10, 15 years, they've been winning here every year.   
 Q.  What does the career Grand Slam mean to you?  
STAN WAWRINKA: The player who did that, it's something amazing, for sure.  But for me it's not something I think about it.   
 Q.  You talk about the last 15 years these guys dominating.  Do you see that changing this year?  Who are the guys you see that can challenge the traditional big four?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I don't know if it's going to change.  I think it's going to be a really interesting Wimbledon, that's for sure, like it's been since the beginning of the year also.  Roger playing so well.  Rafa so confident.  Murray is struggling a little bit, but he loves the grass, so he's going to be for sure really dangerous.   
Again, I just think it's going to be a great Wimbledon.   
 Q.  Where do you put Wimbledon in terms of its importance to the sport?  What for you makes it different or maybe special as an event?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I think is part of the Grand Slam, four Grand Slam.  Is for sure one of the most famous, one of the most special one for many, many reason; because of the history of the tennis, because what they keeping also as the rule because of playing on grass, because it's the only time you can play on grass.   
Yeah, it's always really special for any player to come back and to play here.   
 Q.  After the tragic attacks in this country, what thoughts did you devote to security?  What measures did you think needed to be taken for you to feel safe and secure in returning?  
STAN WAWRINKA: For sure was really tragic for the country.  That was something really sad.  But again, I'm not the person who you need to ask what they need to do about the security.  I think everywhere they trying to do a good job for anybody.   
We as a player, we are not more important than any other person.  For me, I'm not the right person to answer that.   
 Q.  What is your sense of safety, personal safety, as you come back here this year?  
STAN WAWRINKA: For me, it's important not to think too much about that.  If not, you don't travel too much.  There has been an attack in Paris also.  We went back to Paris.  As we traveling all around the world, it's important to feel good.   
 Q.  A question about Roger Federer.  Over the past several years, there have been times when various people have said, Maybe he's done winning Grand Slam tournaments, he's gotten older, it's been a while since he won one.  Was there ever a moment where you thought maybe he might be past his best years and might not win another Grand Slam?  
STAN WAWRINKA: A player like Roger, as long as he's playing, you know, he's going to have a chance to win a Grand Slam.  The day will stop playing, that's when you will have no chance to win anyway.   
We all know as a player, we all see on the court, we all see when we practice against him.  For sure, he had some years little bit down with some injury, with some tough result for him.  That's part of a long career.   
If you look, he's doing something amazing.   
 Q.  You added Paul to your team for the grass court season.  You lost your first-round match at Queen's.  What has it been like having him as part of your preparation?  How does he have you feeling on grass this year?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I think it's great to have Paul with us, with Magnus here.  For me it's more about my game in general.  We always try to improve, always try to find things that I can improve and change in my game.   
It's been great so far.  I'm really happy with him.  We're looking forward to start here in Wimbledon.   
 Q.  Are there any particular improvements you're looking to make on grass?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Not really.  General.   
 Q.  What is your all-time favorite memory of the Championships?  
STAN WAWRINKA: For sure was some amazing final I watch when Roger won here.  But about myself, I think there was a few.  Had some good match.  The second year I think I beat Karlovic on a small court 11-9.  Was for me at that time amazing result.   
 Q.  When you were talking about Roger before, his drought in not winning majors, then he wins in Australia, beating Nadal the way he did, what were your thoughts as you saw your countryman, the guy you know so well, pull that off?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I was really happy and amazing for him.  For sure, I lost against him in semifinal, so I know the way he was playing.  He was playing really well.  I knew he had the chance to win the title.   
 Q.  Of all the things that he's done, where do you think coming back to do that at Australia rates?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Amazing, like all his career.  It's been amazing.  We can talk more about Roger, if you want, but I'm a bit tired.  It's been 10 years you ask me questions about Roger.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT