AEGON CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2017
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How do you assess your season so far?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, so far I think it's been amazing result, for sure.  Really happy with what I have done so far.  Semifinal Australian Open, final Indian Wells, winning Geneva, won title, and final French Open.  That's so far some big result for myself.   
 Q.  You could become the ninth man to win all four Grand Slams if you win Wimbledon this year.  Does that ever cross your mind?  Do you think about that?  
STAN WAWRINKA: No, except when people ask me the question.  But, no, it's a long, long way to be there.  Win a Grand Slam, it's tough.  It's really tough.  Really difficult.  You need to beat so many good players.   
So for me, I know people gonna ask me that question, but it's too far to even think about it.  There is many, many things you have to do before to get to the point that, oh, maybe I'm going to win it or not.   
 Q.  Do you want to give the exact same answer about becoming world No. 1, then?  
STAN WAWRINKA: It's even more difficult, I will say, if you look at the ranking.  You look at the points, I'm far away from being No. 1.  If you look at the ranking right now in the race, I'm quite, really far.  It's also not something I'm thinking about it.   
For me, what's important is to play my best tennis, to keep improving, keep practicing hard.  If I play my best tennis, I know I can beat a lot of players there and I can make a lot of points.   
But again, what's important is what I do day by day.   
 Q.  (Question about Paul added to the team.)  
STAN WAWRINKA: No, I think it's a little bit of everything.  It's a little bit -- he's amazing coach.  He had some of the best player in the world in the last so many years.   
He knows a lot about grass but tennis in general.  I think we decide that's more to try to help my game in general.  Not only on grass but also the big picture in general.  I think it's going to be a good experience, and hopefully we can do some good work with Magnus and Paul.   
 Q.  How many sessions have you had?  Have you noticed differences in the training style?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I know they have been talking a lot together, Paul and Magnus, especially during the French Open and me a little bit with Paul.  But he arriving now.  We are gonna start to work the next few days.   
 Q.  What is it about grass that you maybe have found difficult?  
STAN WAWRINKA: It's a challenging surface for my game, for sure.  It's a little bit faster.  You need to adapt a little bit the game.  You have less time.  You need to think a little bit less.  You need to be more sure in confidence with what you're gonna do.   
And it's a shorter season, so you don't get so many times, so many match to get there.  So it's always been challenging.   
I know I can play my best tennis.  I just need to get there.   
 Q.  What kind of adaptations do you have to make?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Some little change, like all the players.  You have less time.  You need to be more aggressive.  You need to change a little bit the vision and where you're gonna touch the ball.  It's different bounce.  So it's some small change.   
 Q.  Is it hard playing the grass after clay after you have gone so deep?  How much did you rest up to prepare?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, for sure, it's not easy.  Last four weeks have been long and tough for me with Geneva, followed by French Open.  Mentally I was really dead after French Open.  I had few days off, and I arrive here on Friday to practice first time Friday.   
But again, I think it's always enjoy to play Queen's and then Wimbledon.  It's a great part of the year.  So I'm happy to be here again.   
 Q.  Do you think in any way this year is maybe a slightly better chance than other years because Novak has not played so well and Andy had a difficult year until the French and Rafa says he has problems with his knees?  
STAN WAWRINKA: And Roger (smiling)?   
 Q.  Roger lost first time out last week.  
STAN WAWRINKA: Okay.  He also lost in Dubai and then didn't lose a match (smiling).   
I don't think it's better chance.  I think it's a little bit more open with more players that can play the best tennis in the same tournament.  I think the fact Roger has been playing so well is going to be, for sure, is gonna be favorite.   
Andy has got back some confidence from winning matches in French Open.  He loves the grass.  So he's going to be also favorite.   
Novak is not at his best yet, but he's still trying to push.  So we'll see.  Rafa also playing so well since beginning of the year.  If he's fit for grass, then he's also going to be the favorite.  I think you have maybe more players that you can put at the top of the list of favorites.   
 Q.  Novak this year said he would play in Eastbourne.  Generally these days top players prefer to have that week before a Grand Slam free.  You played the week before the French Open.  What benefit did that have for you?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I think, yeah, grass is a little bit different than clay.  As I say, on grass, you don't have, like, one month and a half of clay court tournaments.  For me, tournament came in Geneva, I wanted to play at home this year.  Since I played Geneva, I have been playing also my best in French for few different reason.  First, I got some confidence, winning the title this year and last year.  So it was great to arrive French Open knowing that I was feeling full confidence with my game.   
Also, the fact that I don't go too early in Paris anymore because I'm playing Geneva, so then I don't have all this atmosphere of wanting to play well, being in Paris, many things to do, and already feeling the pressure of playing that Grand Slam that I love to play.   
So there is many things that's help me to play the week before, but for sure it's never easy.  If you look, there are some other players that play, and they cannot switch and play well the tournament.   
 Q.  I guess you've been hoping for a nicer draw, as well.  Feliciano is doing well this week on grass.  It could have been a bit kinder, couldn't it?  
STAN WAWRINKA: For sure it's a tough match.  That's for sure.  He loves the grass.  He played final here I think few years ago.  He always play well on the grass.  He's playing final today in Stuttgart, so full confidence again.   
But again, for me, it's all about what I'm doing, how I'm going to play, going to feel.  First match on grass hopefully I can play well.  I'm here to do my best, to do some better result that's in the past.  For sure it's a tough and challenging match.   
But anyway, you never look for easy draw.  There is no easy draw.  There is just a draw match after match.  You take the player you have to play and you see what's going to happen.   
 Q.  You are a Real Madrid fan?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yes.   
 Q.  Ronaldo, if he were to leave, it would be a big disaster for them?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I think we need to see about that.  I think there is many things talking around him for good and bad reasons, so as long as he didn't sign any club, there is no worry to be.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT