ROLAND GARROS
June 9, 2017
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WAWRINKA/A. Murray   
6-7, 6-3, 5-7, 7-6, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  You could have actually won that match in straight sets.  How hard was it to find yourself 2 sets to 1 down?  How pleased are you with the mental strength to come back from that and win the match?  
STAN WAWRINKA: For sure wasn't easy to be 2 sets to 1 down.  When you play a player like Andy Murray, you know that you can dominate the games, but he's still going to be there.  He's still going to do incredible defense, play the right tennis in the right moment.  That's why he's No. 1 in the world.   
So when you enter in a Grand Slam against him, you have to accept that.  You need to keep trying to focus on what you do, keep trying.  I was trying to focus on my game.  I knew I had some good chance in the first set, in the third set also, but that's what I took positively.  Even if I was 2 sets to 1 down, I knew I had some chance to keep pushing him and that's what I did.   
I'm really happy to find a way how to win the match.   
 Q.  Which component of your game were you most satisfied with today?  Do you see still some room for improvement so you can show your best tennis on Sunday?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I think it was mentally a tough battle today, especially in five sets against Andy.  It was a little bit windy, so it's not easy to always play your best tennis.   
But I'm happy with what I did on the court, the way I was fighting, even if I was down.  The way I was trying to keep my line, trying to keep being aggressive, keep going even if I lost a lot of points by some incredible defense from him.   
But you know what's happening when you play in semi.  You have to accept it.  You just need to keep fighting and keep going for it.   
 Q.  You mixed aggression with the ball with incredible dropshots.  Some points you went to the net, came back, amazing match.  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, for sure was amazing match I felt on the court.  I enjoy to play this match.  For sure when you win it's better after.   
But we had some crazy points with some good rallies, with some good level of tennis.  And to play a semifinal here, French Open against Andy, No. 1 in the world, that's something really special, so for sure I enjoy it.   
 Q.  Did he surprise you at all with some of the shots he got back?  The lobs or the shots off your smashes?  Or do you just expect him to get everything?  
STAN WAWRINKA: You expect him to hit a lot of balls, for sure.  I wasn't always happy with that (smiling).   
He's No. 1 in the world, you know.  You know what his game is, you know how well he can play, and you need to accept it.  You need to, as I say, keep pushing yourself, to play one better.  But you need to accept sometimes that he makes the point even if he had easy smash.   
 Q.  You got great support from the crowd today, really cheering you on.  Did you get a sense of that when you were on the court?  If so, what impact did that have on your tennis?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, was great support.  Was a big atmosphere today.  I really enjoy a lot of it.  As I say from the beginning of the tournament, since I won here, it's something completely different with the crowd, with the people here.  They support me a lot.  All the tournament was like that, so I really enjoy it.   
 Q.  You have played three brilliant matches in your three Grand Slam finals so far.  Can you give us an idea how you managed to play so well when it really matters?  What did you have for breakfast?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Was completely three different finals.  The first one I was completely -- I was completely happy, and I was completely relaxed before the final, even when I entered the court.  The only time I got stressed, that's when I saw that I could win the Grand Slam.   
The two others I was completely stressed, nervous, break down before the final.  I was thinking that it might be my last final of Grand Slam to get the title.  So I was really tough with my team and with myself before the final.   
But again, most important is when you enter the courts to focus on what you do, what you did in the practice court, what you did during the two weeks, and try to just focus on the game point by point.  And that's the only way you can win a Grand Slam final.   
 Q.  We don't know who your opponent will be, but if I could ask you to speak about each of them, maybe first starting with Nadal and if you did play him on Sunday, what do you think the most important thing for you would be?  And also, just as a competitor and contemporary of his, what is your thought when you think about somebody trying to win one Grand Slam tournament for the 10th time?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I think to play Rafa on clay in French Open in a final is probably the biggest challenge you can have in tennis.  He's the best player ever on clay.  As you say, he's going for his 10th Roland Garros, so it's something really impressive, something tough.   
It's for sure gonna be really difficult.  But again, in the end of the day, it's the final.  The pressure is on both players.  No one go on the court thinking he has no pressure.  We both want to win the title, and we both gonna give it all on the court.   
He's for sure gonna be the favorite with what he's done in the past, but also this season already he's playing so well.  So I will have for sure to play my best tennis.  But again, I did in the past, so we will see what's gonna happen on Sunday.   
 Q.  And if it is Thiem, what sort of game is different if you play him, and do you think of him as one of the maybe future stars of the game?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, for sure.  Is already 5 or 6 in the world, so is already a star of the game.  Is making semifinal.  He played so well again this year on the clay.  He beat Rafa already.   
He's playing really well.  He beat Novak, and it's gonna be a tough match, for sure.  We play each other.  I won 7-6 in the third in Indian Wells on the hard.  So will be interesting to play against him.   
 Q.  Again, in the case that you have to play Nadal, with your backhand you play most of the times on the crosscourt and you will go on his forehand.  And Murray stays a little bit back.  Nadal a little less.  Does it change a lot in terms of strategy or not so much?  
STAN WAWRINKA: No, for sure change a lot when you play Rafa on these two completely different match.  You need to adapt your game.   
You need to find the right -- you need to see the day, also.  Some days Rafa feeling his backhand really well.  Some days less.  You have to see how you're feeling.  If my backhand cross is heavy and fast, I can open there and then finish a point.   
Again, for me, that's something I will start to think probably tomorrow night or Sunday morning.  Right now I'm really happy to be in the final.  I think was quite a tough match today.  A big battle.  I want to enjoy a lot, because, as I say, it's not all the time you can say you're gonna play a final of a Grand Slam, especially in Paris.  I really want to enjoy that.   
Rest, recovery, get ready for a big final.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  We could tell there was quite a bit of tension from the beginning of the match.  Was it because of what happened last year?  Was it the weather conditions?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yes.  I think there was a lot of tension indeed.  I never thought about last year.  I was simply thinking about what was happening today.  It's a semifinal and possibly a final on Sunday.  That's what I was thinking about.   
Playing Andy, when you play Andy, you know it's going to be tough.  You have to play with a lot of accuracy.  You have to play fast.  You have to move right and never hesitate, and that, of course, contributes to tension.   
 Q.  You played Andy last year.  Was today's strategy to be more aggressive and keep him from playing his game?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, last year he was much more aggressive.  When I play Andy, I always want to dictate the game, be aggressive, play in the court, go up to the net.   
But last year he was stronger.  He was very aggressive, and he never really let me install my game.  And that is really what I struggled with and what I found so frustrating last year.  But you know what?  That's the way it is.  When a player plays better, that's it.   
Today I think he's less confident.  He played a bit less fast.  He was a little more hesitant, and that gave me a bit more time to actually install my game.   
You know, when you start hesitating, you don't necessarily make the right picks.  Sometimes he was very smart at shooting good balls, which made me hesitate.   
 Q.  If you play Nadal in the final, you defeated him the first time in Australia, and would you say that this Australian match psychologically changed things for you?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, it gave me my first success in a Grand Slam.  But he still is an amazing player.  I mean, this season he has played so well on all surfaces, and he's here to potentially win his 10th French Open, which is purely exceptional.  Beating him will be very different.  But in a final, anything can happen.   
 Q.  In all your finals in Grand Slams, you were the underdog, outsider.  Against Nadal, you probably would be.  If you were to play Thiem, he would be the favorite.  It would be maybe more difficult?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, on paper, I guess playing Thiem would be easier even if Thiem plays an incredible tennis.  We have seen him since the beginning of the tournament.  They are not the same players, so I think it would be better.  It doesn't mean that I would win.   
 Q.  The fact you won three Grand Slam finals, does that change anything for Sunday?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yes, it gives me the confidence I need.  It shows me that I can play my best tennis when I play a match like that.  I have done it three times.  I know what it takes to win a Grand Slam tournament.  I have done it before.   
But every final is a new one.  We will see on Sunday.   
 Q.  How do you feel physically?  You had some small problems, I believe, during the previous match.  How is it today?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I was surprised.  I felt really well.  Things went very well, very smoothly.   
But again, I think that when you're more confident, you sort of let go.  You're less tense.  I was a bit tense at the beginning, and even in the middle of the tournament.   
Now that things are going well, I feel more relaxed, and that means -- that helps me, you know, feel good in my body.  I was really moving very well throughout today's match.  I was able to play faster.   
It was a long match, four-and-a-half hours, I believe.  So I believe I'm going to have to feel a bit sore.  I just did some cryotherapy, but I will see later how my body feels.   
 Q.  You said if you play Nadal on Sunday it's a big challenge.  Exciting or stressful?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, when you play Rafa in the French Open, you're never the favorite.  If you lose, it's almost normal.  But of course you don't want to lose a Grand Slam final, do you?   
So I'm going to look for solutions, and I'll have to be physically and mentally present and be strong in order to win for the second time here at the French Open.  What else can I say?   
 Q.  The more an opponent makes you suffer in a match, the better you get, it seems.  You get better at hitting on the lines, get more winning shots.  Do you think mentally you have become a different player?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yes, absolutely.  That is why I have been able to win Grand Slam tournaments and other tournaments and play great matches when I had to.   
Mentally, when I arrive on a big tournament or in a big match, it's like closing, switching off everything in my body except my brain which I put in winning mode.   
Of course, I can lose, but I think I'm extremely confident about what I do, about how I feel, about all the hard work I have accomplished over the past days, weeks, months, years.  I know that mentally when I'm there, it's difficult to beat me.   
 Q.  Are you still surprised about what is happening to you, or do you now consider that it's normal for your current level?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I'm still surprised, but I'm positively surprised.  When I'm on a court, I always try to put myself in the shoes of the outsider.  I don't, you know, consider that because I'm No. 3 I have to win.  You have to enjoy the moment, every single moment.   
I know the pain when you lose.  I know how it feels when you're down.  It can be very painful.  So the moments when things go well, you really have to enjoy them fully.  This is going to be my fourth final in a Grand Slam tournament, and that is not normal.  It's exceptional, and it will always be exceptional.   
When I arrive on the court, I want to win.  But, yes, it makes me happy, and I still think it's a surprise.   
 Q.  If you were to play Nadal, it will be your backhand against his forehand.  Do you think that's even more difficult on clay?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yes.  I mean, look at his track record on clay.  It is just amazing.  He's the best player we have ever had.   
Again, I don't want to think about it now.  I want to enjoy my victory, today's victory.  I'm not even going to watch the Rafa/Thiem match.  I know who they are.  I know how they play.  It's not going to change my final.   
Right now I want to enjoy today's victory.  It may sound a bit selfish, but I'll see him on Sunday.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT