ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2017
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.
Q. I have one question regarding not tennis.  It's about security here.  It's strong security like last year.  What can you say as a player, does it bother you or you're fine with it?  How much does it affect that security to you players?
STAN WAWRINKA: I think last year was perfectly good.  They do the right thing.  They know what to do here in the tournament.  The organization has been really good.
Q. It's been a couple of years now that you have played the week leading up to Roland Garros.  I'm just wondering, why does that work for you?  How quick is the turnaround for you now?
STAN WAWRINKA: You know, since -- I play because it's in Geneva, home, next to where I have all family and friends, and also it was important for me to play in that tournament.  To have the crowd for me I think has been quite good last two years, because since I play there, my focus is completely into this tournament, and I wait the last minute to really start to think about French Open, about Roland Garros.
I only put myself into the French Open feeling when I arrive here.  It was only few days before, one day before, so I don't have too much time here.  I think it was good also to have some matches, some confidence there, and so far it's been going well.
Q. Going back to your final here in 2015, two years down the road, would you rate that one of the best matches you have ever played?  Obviously you have had some big wins in the future, as well.
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, for sure.  It was one of the best, for sure.  I think 2015 French Open was probably the tournament I played the best tennis.  I was playing really strong, really heavy.  I was feeling really good with my tennis.
Q. Do you know anything about your first opponent, Jozef Kovalik, and if not where are you going to find some information about him?  Maybe YouTube videos or something?
STAN WAWRINKA: I have to say I don't know.  I don't know much.  I'm going to look today.  I'm going to check with Magnus, my coach.  He's going to look around.  I know my friend Benoit Paire played him last few weeks.  I will ask him that, also.
Q. Obviously Roger is skipping here.  I'm wondering would take that strategy if your career prolongs and skipping big tournaments or if it's something that you think would be useful as your career prolongs?
STAN WAWRINKA: It's impossible to answer that question.  I think more I will play, for sure, less I will play, but it's not the big tournaments that I will pull out from, because that's the reason why you play tennis is to play the big one.  Roger has different reason why he's not playing on clay.  He's doing the right choice for his career.  But I don't think it will happen from my side.
Q. You mentioned Paire.  How do you rate his chances against Rafa in the first round?
STAN WAWRINKA: It's gonna be interesting match, for sure.  It's gonna be fun to watch.  That's for sure (smiling).
Q. Regarding Novak, his form, and cooperation with Agassi, what do you think about those things?
STAN WAWRINKA: I think his form is -- he's playing good.  I think he's mentally back since few weeks on the winning mode, wanting to get more title and more winning match.  It's going to be interesting.  I think he's going to be really tough to beat here.
About Andre Agassi, I think it's great for the tennis.  It's probably gonna be great for him but it's too early to say anything because it's the first time Andre will coach anyone.  For sure, it's going to be really interesting for everybody.
Q. The question is not regarding the Roland Garros.  It's about Davis Cup.  In September you will have a match at home with Belarus.  Will you plan to participate in this match?  What do you think about Belarus tennis?
STAN WAWRINKA: September is really far in tennis season.  I honestly don't know what's gonna happen.  I didn't look about the full schedule there.  The good thing is that we are playing at home, so that's something nice.  But I have no idea if I'm going to play.
Q. I know we have all been talking about yourself, Rafa, Djoko.  I'd like to know, though, there are a lot of really young players, as well.  So who are you really watching out for in the men's draw?
STAN WAWRINKA: For sure, there is a new generation coming.  Not coming but already there, you know.  If you look, Zverev, he won Rome.  Thiem won some title and make final in Madrid.  They are both going to be really dangerous.  I think it's going to be very interesting.  You have two big favorites with Rafa and Novak, but the rest, you have few outsiders.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. Winning in Geneva, what does that change for you arriving here at the French Open?  In terms of confidence does it make a difference?
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, it's one more title.  Especially the fact that it's in Geneva, yes, builds my confidence.  Finishing each match, winning each match, and then coming here, I don't think I was really at the best of my shape when I started the tournament in Geneva, but coming here I feel great.  I feel in good shape.  I think the best thing I could do was to win Geneva.
I think I started to play much better.  I was able to win matches, and I'm very happy I did it.
Q. You said the Geneva tournament was very important for you.  Was it more important this year than previous years?
STAN WAWRINKA: I think this year's edition was a little different.  I think I had much more support.  I had a lot of supporters for each match, really, which meant more emotion, also.
The beginning, early season on clay was not good.  It really had a negative impact on my confidence.  So being able to win matches was very important.  It sort of was able to create some reverse thrust and build confidence.  Again, feeling confident, playing well, winning matches is great, but when you don't win matches it's very difficult to get the confidence.
I think in Geneva I was finally able to find that confidence again.
Q. Arriving in Paris so late, does that somewhat change the way you prepare for this big event?  Does it start before mentally?
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, when I decided to play Geneva before the French Open, it's been -- this is the third year.  The first year in Geneva I lost the quarterfinals, and I played two days after here and I won the tournament.  This was back in 2015.  Playing well in Geneva and winning Geneva builds my confidence.
I don't really need to train here.  Of course, I have to hit some balls, adapt to the surface to get ready, but I think that winning Geneva is just perfect.
Q. You always said that when you practice well you play well.  Do you feel different now after Geneva because you played better matches?  Not just during training but the matches themselves?
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, as I said, I think it really boosts my confidence.  Winning matches helps a tremendous amount.  It makes me less hesitant, more confidence.  When you hesitate, you tend to play less well.  To play well, to play in a more relaxed fashion, it is important to be confident.
So Geneva was last week.  We are now starting the French Open.  It's a new tournament.  All together you have to start from scratch and hopefully do well.
Q. You talk about Benoit Paire playing Nadal.  You said it's going to be fun.  What did you mean exactly?  How do you think this could be fun?
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, Benoit is a player I always enjoy to see.  His game play is somewhat different from what you typically see.  He is very talented, he does a lot of things very well, but he does more.  I really enjoy seeing him play.
Q. Would you give him any advice?
STAN WAWRINKA: I don't think he needs any advice.
Q. What do you do when you finish Geneva and before you start your first match here?
STAN WAWRINKA: I arrived last night.  No training today.  Tomorrow I'm going to hit a few balls, probably an hour.  And then my first match will be on Tuesday.
So I'm just getting some rest and getting mentally prepared.
Q. Andre Agassi is back with Djokovic.  What does Agassi represent for you?  What memories?  I know when you won in junior, you met him, right?  You worked with him?
STAN WAWRINKA: No, I did not.  He's a great champion.  He has played amazing matches against Sampras.  I saw many of these.  He is a great champion.  It's interesting to see that some of these older champions are now back today to actually coach the younger players.  I never really met him and got a chance to talk to him, but the fact he's now with Djokovic maybe will give me an opportunity to meet him.
But, yes, again, he is a great champion, like many others are active as coaches.  I really was a Sampras fan, to tell you the truth (smiling).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT