INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 14, 2017
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








An interview with:
STAN WAWRINKA
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. Can you just talk to me a bit about your preparations since you have been here and how you are feeling settling in?
STAN WAWRINKA: I feel good.  I arrive straight after losing in Madrid, arrive here early to practice.  I have been practicing well in general.
I didn't win a lot of matches between Monaco and Madrid, but the level is there.  I know that I'm doing the right thing now.  I need to get into some matches, to win matches to get the confidence back, and I'm sure I can find a way to get to my top level.
Q. Are you a bit disappointed with the way your clay season is going so far?
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, for sure.  For sure I'm disappointed to lose first round in Madrid, but it's not the first time.
So I just need to stay focused on what I'm doing, keep working out, keep doing the right thing, and the result will come sooner or later.
Q. You haven't faced Nadal yet.  I want to know your comments on his result and if it's better to face all your strongest rivals before important tournaments like Grand Slam or not.
STAN WAWRINKA: For sure he's been playing amazing since beginning of the year.  Made final of Australian Open, final in Miami, and now winning the big titles on clay.  So he's full back in confidence playing his best tennis again.
I think there is no words.  The best is to play your best tennis, anyway, and to win matches for me.  I played Monaco and played Madrid.  Didn't play well enough, but hopefully I can turn that and start to win some matches here.
Q. Are you hoping to face him here, or you just want to avoid him?
STAN WAWRINKA: If I can face him, I think it's in the finals, so it will be good.
Q. Do you feel any extra pressure this week, given that your results haven't been that great on clay so far and with Roland Garros just around the corner?
STAN WAWRINKA: No, the pressure is always there, always the pressure you put on yourself.  The way you want to play, you want to play well every week, but it's not as simple as that.
Again, as I say, I need to focus on what I'm doing, keep working out and see what's gonna happen in the next few days.
Q. Do you think now Rafa is the real Rafa on the clay like in the past?  A clear favorite for Roland Garros?
STAN WAWRINKA: For me, I don't compare to the past, because he's a different player with different age, different way of playing a little bit.  For sure he's been impressive this year because he's full in confidence playing his best tennis.  That's for sure.
Yeah, of course he's the favorite of the French Open, you know.  The way he's playing not only on the clay court but since the beginning of the year -- you know, he was final Australian Open, final of Miami, so he's been there.  It's going to be interesting to see what's going to happen.
Q. You are a good friend of Roger.  What do you think of his choice to go directly to Roland Garros?
STAN WAWRINKA: As you can always see with him, he always do the right choice for him.  You know, he's been out last year six months, coming back and winning all the big titles.  He's doing the right choice and he know exactly what he has to do.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT