MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 20, 2017
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. CUEVAS/S. Wawrinka
6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. What happened?  Can you explain exactly how you think you performed, and if you are very disappointed?  Or it being the first tournament on clay, more or less it can be also expected in a way?
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, I can explain in a few different way.
First, he played really well.  He's a really good player, tough to play, especially on clay.  He played February already, so he has his game already ready for the clay.
My side, it wasn't the best match.  A little bit slow today.  Heavy legs.  Not moving the best.  Then I don't play as heavy as I want.  I'm a little bit late on the points.
I've been working hard since the beginning of the clay doing fitness with tennis.  I can expect to be, in the first tournament, a little bit heavy and not at my best yet because you need to get used to.
For sure I'm disappointed because I wanted to play better and make a better result here.  In the other way, I need to keep working out, use now the next two weeks to do my big preparation like I wanted to do, get ready for Madrid.
Q. You're not going to play anything before Madrid for sure?
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, for sure no.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. We have the feeling you were never into that match.
STAN WAWRINKA: As I said, he played very well from the start.  I was slow physically.  I didn't have the right reflexes.  I was too close to the line, so I couldn't play with the power I wanted to.
This is the lack of practice on clay.  It's the first tournament on clay.  I need to accept this and I have to keep working.  I need to get all these automatic reactions again.
Q. You would have been able to play in that match normally.  Did something strange happen?
STAN WAWRINKA: In the match today, everything was very average.  Against a very good player like him, the result is what it is.  There's not much I can say.
You should not forget he's a very good player.  If you hesitate a little, he will get you.  He has good experience on clay.  When you're not at your top level, he knows what to do.
Q. Did you feel in practice you were not in your best shape today?
STAN WAWRINKA: I would have hoped to have done better today.  It's the first tournament on clay.  I practiced hard since I started preparing for the clay.
I know you can't play your best tennis from the start.  I need to accept that.  I need to look to the future.
Q. Are you surprised by the losses of the best players in the tournaments this year?
STAN WAWRINKA: There are not so many surprises.  Rafa played two finals, for example.  It hasn't changed much in the last 10 years.
It's interesting.  When Novak and Andy are not playing so well, we need to watch what will happen, especially during the clay court season.
Rafa can be extremely dangerous.  We'll see if Novak can get his confidence up again.
Q. You seem fit.  How come you had heavy legs today?  What is the reason?
STAN WAWRINKA: There are several reasons.  You are always trying to work hard outside of the tournaments.  Sometimes it can affect you.
Q. Are you going to practice in Switzerland now?
STAN WAWRINKA: I don't know yet.  I just lost now.  I have no firm plans right now.  I'm going to look at the various options I have.
I will see with Pierre and Magnus together.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT