MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 25, 2017
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. It was pretty fast, clinical.  Happy with that?
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, really happy with the match today.  I think was a great match, especially for first one here for me.
It's quite tough conditions since few days here.  Raining, really windy today.  It's really windy on the court, so it's never easy.
Happy the way I was moving, the way I was playing, and my attitude in general was really positive.  So it's a great match.
Q. How is the expectation coming in as the top seed for the tournament?  Does it change the mindset?
STAN WAWRINKA: No, for me doesn't change much to be No. 1 seed or No. 4 seed or No. 3rd.  Same at the end of the day:  You need to win matches.
I know I can beat anybody, but I need to play well for that.  I never played well here in the past, so hopefully I can change that this year.
Q. Considering all North American Masters 1000, this event hasn't been your best.  Why have you struggled here so much compared to, say, Indian Wells or Cincinnati?
STAN WAWRINKA: I don't have any reason.  If not, I would've change that already.  Until this year I never played really well in Indian Wells except making quarterfinals, so it really change this year.
I'm playing better tennis.  I feel here also that I'm playing good.  I took the confidence from Indian Wells.
So let's see.  Maybe I can change that this year.
Q. The No. 1 seed here, are you proud of that, to be a top seed at Master's event?
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, it's something that it's like that, like it's going to be done on my CV.  That's it.  For me doesn't change anything mentally or the way I see it.
Honestly, all I want is to gain what I have, to play well, to improve my tennis, to improve my results, taking as much as I can, and trying to go the best I can.
Q. Does it feel like there is opportunity this year because it's been somewhat more unpredictable results maybe at the top?
STAN WAWRINKA: Yes and no.  Yes because for sure if you look, Andy and Novak, they been struggling the first three month of the year.  That's it.  They are a little bit injury now, so we going to see what's going to happen.
But you have Roger playing so well; Rafa also playing well.
Again, the opportunity can only come if you play well; only if you win matches, win tournaments, win big tournaments.  That's all I'm focused on.  I don't accept to improve my ranking by other player not playing well.
I expect to improve my ranking if I deserve and if I make the point, make the win.  That's it.
Q. Besides Djokovic, for the last three years you were easily the best player in the best-of-five set format.  Won three majors.  What prevents you from succeeding in the best-of-three format?  Is it mental?  You like longer matches?
STAN WAWRINKA: It's a little bit of everything.  For sure it's mental.  In five-set match you can miss a little bit more.  You have more time to play your best tennis.  Also the draw are completely different.
Then in Masters 1000 you don't play a top 32 seeded before the third round, so you have time really to get into those tournaments.  Again, when I'm playing well, when I am confidence with my game, I know I can beat anybody.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT