ROLAND GARROS
September 27, 2020
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. WAWRINKA/A. Murray
6-1, 6-3, 6-2
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. You seemed like you didn't have much of a problem hitting through the very heavy conditions today.  Do you think that was the big advantage for you today against Andy, that you were able to use your power so well?
STAN WAWRINKA:   Yeah, for sure it's tough conditions here.  Heavy, slow, cold, completely different than normally at that time of the year.
But again, I think I playing well.  Happy, as you said, those conditions I can still play heavy with my game from both sides.  So I use those tough conditions, heavy conditions, slow conditions to still play powerful tennis.
Q. What does it feel like for you being in a match against a guy who has been as great as Andy just being one- sided?  What's it like emotionally tactically for you as you see the scoreline?  I'm guessing you weren't expecting it to be so lopsided on the scoreboard.
STAN WAWRINKA:   No, for sure I wasn't expecting that.  Especially I know Andy so well, we know each other so well since many, many years, had some amazing matches together.  We actually practice the first day I arrive here, and it was a tough practice.
So I was expecting a tough match.  I was really focused with a champion like Andy, even if the scoreboard is only one side like today, you have to keep focus.  You never know what can happen.
Again, today I'm really happy with what I have done on the court.  Great to be back, great to feel that way, and looking forward for the next match.
Q. You said you practiced with Andy, but the conditions were kind of different.  How did you felt the ball with the weight of the ball, the conditions of the court today?
STAN WAWRINKA:   Yeah, it's slow condition, heavy condition.  But again, when it's like that, I'm focused on what I'm doing.  I know I can be aggressive.  I know I can put some heavy balls out there, and I can keep playing heavy balls each ball.  That's important the way I'm playing, focusing on keeping my game.  And, yeah, I'm happy with it.
Q. How would you assess the setup at the hotel where you're not entirely in the bubble?  You do have some people outside of tennis staying there.  What's that been like for you?
STAN WAWRINKA:   Yeah, I think I didn't went to America.  I went to Rome for the first bubble tournaments.  Now it's here.  For sure it's not completely bubble because you have different people at the hotel and all.
But at the end of the day, for me what's important is to look at myself, to be careful with myself.  I'm here with my team.  I'm really careful with what I'm doing.  I come for practice, I come for matches.  That's the most important at the end of the day.
If there is also people, I know it's difficult for the organization to make like a completely clear bubble for everybody, but I think we can be happy to be playing here at the French Open.  We can be happy to be playing in front of thousand people.  I have been playing only one match without fans, and it's sad.  It was in Rome, and I was sad to play without anybody.
Today, honestly I was super happy to see some fans, to see some people here.  I think that's great for us.  That's great for the people.
Yeah, I'm happy to be back.
Q. You played Andy 21 times on ATP Tour.  How would you compare his game compared to like five years ago?
STAN WAWRINKA:   Yeah, I think many things happen to him.  To me, also.  Andy won everything that you can win in tennis.  He was No. 1.  He had amazing career.  He's been back now after having some surgery, hip surgery.  Nobody expect him to come back on the tour.  He's getting back.  He's amazing champion.  It's always going to be special to play against him.
Q. Obviously it's a very tough draw for you to play Andy in the first round, but does that actually help you in some ways, the fact it's such a big match first round?  Does that help you to kind of overcome the fact that there is no atmosphere in the stadium today?
STAN WAWRINKA:   I don't know if it helped me or not.  I always enjoy to play in front of people, especially here at the French Open.  Always enjoy when it's packed.
Yeah, today it was different.  We always have to adapt.  It's different time of the year also.  It's been not the easiest conditions to play when it's cold like that, but as I say, I think we can be happy to be playing the French Open.
Q. A question away from today's match to ask you, do you feel you have ever played the perfect match?  If so, when?  Or if you haven't, do you think it's possible to play a perfect match?
STAN WAWRINKA:   I don't know what "perfect match" exactly means.  There is many ways to see it.
I think for me I just look like when I played my best level in the most important match, like in Grand Slam finals.  Or if I have to think quickly, when I played Novak here, I think it was close to perfect from my side of view of tennis, because I was playing my best level.  It was in the most important match in a Grand Slam final against the No. 1 player.
So that's how I see it.
Q. Your next match against Koepfer.  Not sure how much you know about him.  He's been playing well lately, quarterfinals in Rome.  He's a guy with a one-handed backhand, also.
STAN WAWRINKA:   Yeah, tough player.  Been playing well.  I saw him playing in Rome few matches.  I saw him play last week also.  So I expect he's in full confidence.  He won a lot of matches against some top guys.
So it's going to be interesting match.  Never played or practiced with him, so it's gonna be completely different match.  Hopefully I can keep playing well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT