BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 18, 2017
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. WAWRINKA/P. Busta
6-3, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You seem to have a real ability at tournaments sometimes to really kind of round into form as you go and play your better tennis as there is more on the line.  Talk about that a little bit.
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, most of the time I know when I start to win the matches in the tournament, I start to get the confidence, the good feeling with the ball, with the way I'm playing in the tournament.  I know I play better and better.
Normally semifinal/final, I always play some good match.  Doesn't mean I always win, but I know that I'm going to play some good tennis.
Q. Your fourth Masters 1000 final, I think.  The other guys you compete against, they have a lot more.  How much does it mean for you to get back in part of the draw and have a shot at it?
STAN WAWRINKA: For me, it's great.  It's amazing result to be in the final here, especially in Indian Wells, one of the best Masters 1000, to have a chance to play for a trophy tomorrow here.  It's great.
So far the season has been good, even tough.  I had an injury, and I had to take some time off and do some hard work at home to get back fit and ready.  I am really happy with the way I'm playing, and I'm really enjoying to be here and playing a final tomorrow.
Q. Would you mind looking ahead to the potential, who you might meet tomorrow in the finals?
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, they're playing tomorrow, Sock or Federer.  Sock, I played him last year, Toronto, I think.  Was tough match.
He's playing well.  He's improving.  He's great player, serving big kick, using a lot his forehand, topspin.  You need to stay with him, don't give him the time to dictate with his forehand.  Roger, we all know him, so nothing to say (smiling).
Q. Switzerland, small country.  Land-locked.  Kind of cold.  How come so many fabulous players come from that country?
STAN WAWRINKA: No idea.  Don't know.  That's the question we can ask all the time.  Not only men's, women's, so many amazing player there.  No answer to that question.
Q. You and Roger are from different parts of Switzerland.  Can you talk about how the two sections differ?  Is there a kind of rivalry there, too?
STAN WAWRINKA: Not really, I will say, especially in tennis.  We most of the time we playing around the world.  We playing for our country, for Switzerland.
For sure, he's from the German part.  I'm from the Swiss part.  We have been playing a lot of Davis Cup tie also in Switzerland together.  Doesn't matter, French part or German part.  Was always great crowd.
Q. On the court you talked about in past years having trouble keeping a positive attitude at this tournament.  How have you managed to change that this year?
STAN WAWRINKA: I have been working on that since many years with my team, with myself, also, to try to keep staying strong in every matches.
Yeah, last few years I know that I lost some matches because of, most of the time, attitude.  I was too tough with myself, a little bit too negative.  That's why too much up and down.
But this year, this year it was not easy.  I had a tough one against Nishioka.  I still came through by fighting, by trying to stay positive.  Now I'm in the final, so I'm really happy.
Q. When you have a tough match like the Nishioka match and the one against Dan Evans at the US Open last year, when you survive those matches, what do you feel after you've gotten through them?  Do you feel I'm just lucky to be here and I can relax, or does it make you focus more when you are so close to going out?  What's the psychology there?
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, for me most of the time I try to learn from what I maybe did wrong in that match, why I was that close to lose, why I wasn't playing great, why I wasn't doing the right thing.
That's how I see it.  For sure, sometimes when you save match point or serve twice for the match, you get a little bit lucky, but you push to have luck on your side, also.  You don't just get the luck like that (snapping fingers).
Next match for me I don't enter, Oh, I have nothing to lose because I save match point the last match.  I'm just trying to learn from that, to play a better match.  That's what I did in US Open.  That's what I also did here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT