BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2017
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. WAWRINKA/P. Kohlschreiber
7-5, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. That looked pretty straightforward.  Was it as straightforward as it looked?
STAN WAWRINKA: It was a really good match.  I'm very happy, in general.  First set was not easy, for sure, all the match, but in general I'm happy with my game.  I need to every time to adjust a little bit in the return.  It's not easy.
But I was serving well.  I think I'm moving better and better, and it's all positive so far.
Q. Maybe your next opponent is pretty surprising, because it's a lucky loser.  What do you know about him and how do you think...
STAN WAWRINKA: I know him well.  Like, in general, I know how he's playing.  I watch him a few times, not only here but last year, also.
I know how he's playing, more from the baseline, use his power.  It's going to be interesting.  I never practice with him, so it's going to be the first time we going to be against each other.  So I'm sure it's going to be a good match.
Q. (Question about the position in the draw.)
STAN WAWRINKA: Nothing.  I know how good all the big, big names are in the same quarter, for sure.
For me, it doesn't change much in my side.  It's not like I have been in a lot of semifinal/final in Masters 1000.  So I need to focus every match.
I'm just enjoying to be back here, enjoying to be back winning.  I know I'm practicing and playing well.  I know anything is possible.  I'm focused match after match.  Was only the second win since Australia.
So today I'm really happy with the performance the way I was playing.  Moving, also.  I'm feeling good in my body, so that's the most important.
Q. How do you like the condition of this tournament?  Somebody likes and somebody doesn't.  Do you feel it's different in center court compared to other courts?
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, I like the tournament.  I like the place.  It's a great tournament for all the players.  We all enjoy to be back.  The conditions can be quite different between the night, between the day, hot, can be cooler a little bit, and flying a lot.
I think this year it's quite similar, the center court and all the other courts.  I think they did a good job to keep it more or less the same.  I have been practicing on the other courts and I played on center.  So, yeah, it's quite similar.
Q. Did you get a chance to watch much of Andy's match the other night?
STAN WAWRINKA: No, no, I didn't.  I think I finished the match before, and I was doing treatment or something.  I didn't get a chance to watch anything.
Q. What are your thoughts about the result?  I mean, I know you don't focus much, but it changes the dynamics of your half of the bracket.
STAN WAWRINKA: As I say, doesn't change much, because it's not like I have been playing Andy in many Masters 1000, anyway, because I have never been in a lot of semifinal/final.  For me, it doesn't change much.
Q. You have a lot more sponsor commitment activities than you used to before.  What have you learned about managing all of that, keeping your focus on tennis?
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, I think you learn from the experience from the year.  Most important is try to do good schedule, to know when it doesn't take too much energy or fuel.  That's the most important.  I'm trying to do not too much in tournaments and more off tournaments when I have more time.
Q. How important is it to get out of these matches in straight sets early?  Because the other guys are going to be out in the other group and everybody goes to Miami, too.  The amount of energy you can save early on probably is an advantage, correct?
STAN WAWRINKA: If you arrive in the final, yeah, for sure, it's an advantage.  But for me, as I say, my best result here was quarterfinal two times only.  If not, I was losing earlier so I had a lot of time to get ready for Miami.  It's not like I have been playing well in Miami, either (smiling).
I'm not focused on how long I spend on the court.  I'm focused on trying to win, trying to do the right thing in the practice court, trying to push myself.  As I say, anything is possible here.  If not, next tournament.  If not, there is a lot of tennis the rest of the year.
So I'm working every day not only for here but for the rest of the year.
Q. Do you have any different tactics toward, like, 21-year-olds, like, opponent next time, or like a seasoned player, like veteran players?  Do you have a mindset when you're on court?
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, for sure.  Depends the player I'm playing, depends who I'm playing.
It's not about the age.  It's about the player you play.
But in general, I know I have to focus a lot on myself, because I know that everything start from my game.  I can dictate the game, I can make the game.  So that's the most important.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT