BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 11, 2017
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WAWRINKA/P. Lorenzi   
6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Can you just tell us your general thoughts about the match and how it went today?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I think it was a general good match, first round.  I think I had some up and down a little bit, but in general I was feeling good.   
It's my first win since Australian Open, so it's been long time and it was good to feel good on the court again.  In general, was moving well, a little bit sometimes on a few things, but for first one I think it was very good.   
 Q.  When you play here, how do you feel the conditions suit your game?  Because we always hear different stories about people playing here, ball flying through the air, slow off the court.  
STAN WAWRINKA: I think it depends.  I think a few years ago was much faster, was flying way more.  Now it's a little bit more easy to control, in general.  I think also the condition change a lot during the day and during the night.  With the sun, it can go faster flying.  With the night, it stop a little bit.   
So depends.  I think when I'm playing good, it can be some good conditions for my game, because I can really play my game from baseline, be aggressive, serving well.  So it's up to me to play some good tennis here.   
 Q.  Do you find it easy to adjust to the conditions here, or it takes a little bit longer for you?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I think, as I said, depends the year.  Few years ago it was really difficult for me.  I had some big problem with my game.  Didn't play well.  I think the worst was three years ago when it was really flying with the ball.   
I think this year it's -- I have been playing well since the first day on the practice court.  So now it's all about the match, the way I'm going to play, and if I'm going to win some matches.   
 Q.  Do you feel like the tournament is an opportunity for you this year?  We have been talking about the draw and the other side of the draw, but, I mean, do you ever look that far ahead and indulge in that maybe this is a great opportunity here?  
STAN WAWRINKA: No, I don't look that far.  You know, with me, it doesn't -- it depends of the draw.  There is no easy draw and no easy -- tough draw.  It will depends more the way I'm going to play or the way I'm going to feel.  And the match today I feel was good match with a player that I quite like the start of game.  So it was good for me, for my game.   
Again, Masters 1000, I don't always play my best tennis, but hopefully I can do some great results here.   
 Q.  Do you know or do you have a feeling at the start of a tournament that it's going to be a good week or good two weeks for you, or is it per day?  
STAN WAWRINKA: No, it's really per day, especially here, especially here.  It's really slow, really long.  You have the day off between matches, so it can change a lot.  And as I said, the conditions also change a lot.  When you play night session, when you play day, or it can be a little bit cold or cooler or it can be really hot.   
So all I know is that I have been practicing well.  I keep pushing myself on the practice court.  That's the most important, because that's the only way can I give myself to play well in the match.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT