AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2017
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WAWRINKA/J. Tsonga   
7-6, 6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Seemed like there was a lot of tension going on in the beginning of the match.  Can you talk a little bit about what happened there?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, I think a really good match.  Really happy to get through that one, especially in three sets.   
I think the beginning of the match was quite tense from both sides.  We were maybe a little bit looking too much about what the other will do, waiting a little bit the other to do something on the court.   
But I think condition were not easy.  It was quite fast, was a little bit windy, flying a little bit.  It was important to serve well.   
Again, I'm happy with my performance.   
 Q.  Do you think that's normal sort of Grand Slam quarterfinal tension or something different going on?  
STAN WAWRINKA: No, I think it's not only a Grand Slam quarterfinal, it's a tennis match.  You can always have some tension.  Everybody go on the court to won the matches.  Things can happen.   
But at the end there is no problem after the match.   
 Q.  You won five tiebreaks in a row.  Does it mean you have a really good focus on the important points here this year?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, so far it's been good.  But you never know what's going to happen after.   
Again, I think today was my best match of the tournament.  Was great focus all the match.  I find a way to break him few times also.  I'm really happy, really happy to get in semifinal again.  It's a great result.   
I'll enjoy tonight and get ready for the next one.   
 Q.  The next one looks like it's going to be against Roger.  What are your thoughts on playing Roger in this semifinal for the third time at a Grand Slam?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, it's going to be a great match, for sure.  Last time I think I got killed in US Open.  He was playing way better than me, moving really well, really aggressive from the court.   
It's going to be interesting match.  He's playing so well since the beginning of the tournament.  He had a little bit some hesitation in the two first rounds, but since that he's really flying on the court.   
It's great to see him back at that level.  Hopefully I can manage to play a great match.   
 Q.  How different does it feel playing Roger at this stage of your career when you're also a Grand Slam champion, compared to earlier on when he was ahead of you?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, for sure now I'm more confident with myself.  When I step on the court, doesn't matter who I play, I know what I have to do if I want to win.   
For sure, against Roger, it's always special because he's so good.  He's the best player of all time.  He has answer for everything.  But I managed to beat him in a Grand Slam, so we'll see.   
Most important is that I step on the court and I play my best tennis.   
 Q.  I met Magnus, your coach, before the tournament.  He spoke about your relationship.  How much does he mean to you?  You pointed up to the stands before the game.  What do you say about him?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I'm really happy to have him in my team.  I think he's not only an amazing coach but amazing person.  For sure he find a way how to change my career.  Since he arrive, I won three Grand Slams, finish in top four three years in a row.   
It's always great to have someone who can push your limit.  I think I enjoy to have him here as a coach, as a friend.  We share lot of things hopefully for many more years.   
 Q.  Winning a Grand Slam in New York, making the semifinals here at the next Grand Slam, do you feel like you've been able to sustain something?  You still have momentum, or is it too far apart to be related?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I think it's too far away.  Was a lot of tennis between.  But for me, it's great to be in semifinal.  It's great to see what I've done in the off-season.  It was some good work that I'm feeling good on the court, that I'm strong enough to beat some tough player and make another semifinal.   
For sure I don't want to stop here, but we'll see.  It's going to be, for sure, a tough match.   
 Q.  You had a lot of strapping on your right leg.  Is there any concern there moving forward or...  
STAN WAWRINKA: No, as I say last match, I had a smaller strap.  The big one is just to make sure the other strap doesn't go out during the match.  That's the only reason.   
As I say also, it's nothing important.  I'm playing and moving really good on the court.  I'm happy with that.  I have no big issue.   
 Q.  In your history with Roger, which matches stand out most to you?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Probably the final in Monaco.  For me winning Masters 1000 was something special, especially a few months after winning my first Grand Slam.  Was a tough final.  It was three sets.  Great memories.   
 Q.  A question back to the match.  After the first set, there was an argument between the two of you.  Do you want to share what it was about?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I think you already know it.  You already know everything.  It's on TV.  You for sure heard everything on TV.  You heard from Jo.  I think there's not much else to say.   
As I say, it's a tennis match.  You can have some tension during the match between players.  Sometimes it can happen.  Most important is that after the match it's all good.   
 Q.  Is it tough to find the concentration after that happened for you?  
STAN WAWRINKA: No, I don't think so.  It's not the first time I have some argument on the court.  I think I have enough experience to stay focused on what I'm doing during the match, on my own game.  That's what I did today.   
 Q.  Do you and Jo get along well off the court?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, we do.  We do.  We know each other since many, many years.  We practice so many times together the past 10 years.  We see each other a lot in Switzerland.  So, yeah.   
 Q.  Playing against somebody from the same country, won gold medals together, Davis Cup, do you expect a different tension?  
STAN WAWRINKA: It's always been different in my career when I played against Roger.  When I step on the court, it's always something special because he's the best player because of everything he's done in his career, because the way he's playing, because he's Swiss, because he's a really close friend, because of everything we've been together, Davis Cup, Olympics.  It's always something special.   
Most important is that I try as much as I can to focus on myself, that I step on the court to try to win, to try to find a way how to win the match.   
 Q.  Do you feel close to winning this tournament?  With the top two seeds out, people are talking more about you.  Do you feel like it's within reach?  
STAN WAWRINKA: For me being in semifinal, if you look on the paper, it's only two matches, but it's really far from winning.  I've been semifinal few times.  I lost them.  I start to think about winning Grand Slam if I get to the final.  That's the only moment when I start to think about the trophy.   
Before that I know how far you still are.  Even if you think it's only two matches, the way, it's really far from winning a Grand Slam.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT