AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2017
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WAWRINKA/V. Troicki   
3-6, 6-2, 6-2, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How happy are you with the performance today?  It was like a bit of a slow start, but in the end it was a bit tricky.  Talk about it a bit.  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, it was not always the best tennis, but I'm happy to won the match.  That's all that counts.  In general, it was a good momentum.  Second, third and fourth set, I was playing better.   
But tough conditions, quite windy, not easy to really play well, have a good rhythm.  I'm really happy just to get through.   
 Q.  It was close in the end.  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, was close.  Tough tiebreak for sure.  Served twice for the match.  Doesn't happen often.  But it's not a big deal.  You know, at the end I won in four sets.  I'm still here.  I know I'm playing well, playing better and better.   
 Q.  How do you put those missed opportunities behind you?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Just trying to fight, to keep pushing myself to play better.  I know it can happen.  That's sometimes what happen on the court.  But you just try to forgot and think about the point that's coming.   
 Q.  That was your eighth win in a row over Viktor Troicki.  Do you know why you match up so well on him?  
STAN WAWRINKA: It's never easy to play against him.  I had some tough battle, like today, four sets.  Set point to go fifth.   
But in general, I enjoy to play his game.  I can control quite well the game.  If I serve well, I know I have a big chance.   
 Q.  You seemed quite relieved you didn't have to play a fifth set.  How would you rate your level coming into the second week of the tournament?  
STAN WAWRINKA: As I say, I know I'm playing really well on the practice court.  I've been playing a good part of the match today good.   
But again, what's important is to keep winning.  Doesn't matter the way you're playing, especially the beginning of a Grand Slam.  But I just know that my level is there, so I'm not worried.   
 Q.  Talk a little bit about the next opponent, about Seppi.  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, it's going to be an interesting match.  Has been playing really well this tournament.  He's there since many years.  We play each other a few times.  I know it will depends the way I'm going to play, the way I'm going to be on the court.  But it's going to be a good match.   
 Q.  It seems that you have a special sort of bond with Serbian players.  You like to play against them?  
STAN WAWRINKA: That's a question?   
 Q.  Yes.  
STAN WAWRINKA: How many times that I lost against Novak?   
 Q.  But you won your biggest titles against Novak.  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, but he beat me in the important match also.   
 Q.  Thoughts about Novak going out yesterday?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Tough match.  I watch a little bit.  Tough to say anything if you're not part of the team and you don't know what's happening inside.  You can always say something that you think from outside.   
Istomin was playing really, really well.  Again, I think was a tough match.  About him or Seppi, journalists should stop thinking about the draw, and focus more match by match, not ask too many questions about who you play in quarters or semifinals.   
Tennis is always difficult.  There's always difficult players every matches.  That's why we always focus match by match and not thinking too much of the draw.   
 Q.  The long matches that you play early on in weeks in Grand Slams, does it give you confidence later in Grand Slams that you can win in tight situations?  
STAN WAWRINKA: No, I don't think it change much.  I think when I won French Open, I was playing really well.  I was winning three sets, four sets maximum every match.  It doesn't matter, doesn't change anything.  The goal is to win those matches, as I say.   
I don't really care if I play really well, well, or okay.  I want to win.  I want to get through those matches.  I want to go as far as possible.  That's what's matter at the end of the day.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT