BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 7, 2017
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. NISHIKORI/S. Wawrinka
7-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You had the trainer out to see your leg three times, I think, in the first set.  Was there a problem there?
STAN WAWRINKA: Just something with my ankle but nothing special.
I think it was, in general, a really good level today.  Kei was playing really good.  Stayed really aggressive for the match.  I had some little opportunity in the first set, a few points that can turn the match, but he was playing a little bit better than me.  Yeah, it's like that.
Q. What did you most struggle with today?
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, we know each other really well.  We played many times against each other.  Practice, also, a lot.  I think today he was really aggressive, was really strong from the baseline.  Didn't give me much to do.
He was always putting a lot of pressure on myself and was tough.  I think he deserve to win.  Was still a really close match.  I think the level, in general, was really high for first week of the year.  I'm really disappointed to lose in semifinal here, especially playing a good match, but I have to take some positive from the week and go with that.
Q. So you don't think that your ankle problem will give you any trouble at the Australian Open?
STAN WAWRINKA: No, I don't think so.  Even today I had some little pain, but that didn't affect my game today.
Q. What do you take as your positives coming from this tournament?
STAN WAWRINKA: I think my level, in general, was good.  I had three good and tough matches, playing better each match.
Today I'm playing against a player that I played many times in the past.  He was a little bit better than me.  I had some chance in the first set.  I had few points that can change the match but didn't took them, didn't took those opportunity.
And I think the level is there.  Now I need to keep working out and get ready for the next tournament.
Q. It took you a while in your career to get to the stage where you won a Grand Slam tournament.  Then you've won three.  Do you think Kei has now been on the tour long enough and has enough potential to win a major himself?
STAN WAWRINKA: Well, he's always going to be dangerous.  He made already a final, some semifinals.  He's always a tough player to beat and to play.
For sure, he will have some opportunity to win.  You have to see also the other players.  So far, last ten years, the Big Four was really strong, so it's gonna be interesting to see this year how Novak, Andy, Rafa, and Roger will play.
Q. Why you don't keep your momentum to the second set?  Is that because your ankle or something?
STAN WAWRINKA: No, no.  I think because of the level, in general, I think Kei was a little bit stronger than me today.  I think he put a lot of pressure during the game.
He was staying there, he was hanging there, he was the aggressive player.  He played better than me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT