BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 4, 2017
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WAWRINKA/V. Troicki   
7-6, 6-4   
 Q.  The crowd is still buzzing about Jordan Thompson, but you were able to focus and get out there and do your job?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah.  First match of the year.  I was happy to start here.  There is a nice crowd also here.  It's always nice to play tournament like that.   
I'm quite happy with my level to start the year.  I think it was a good match, in general, for sure. A few up-and-down about focus and about choice during the game, but it's always a tough player to play against Troicki, and I'm very happy for the first match.   
 Q.  What do you think about the speed of the court?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, I think it's, I would say, a little bit fast out there.  But the ball can get slower.  If you play long rally, the ball can really change a lot when you have new balls and when you play a few balls with it.   
But it's good court to play, I think.  I practice a lot when I arrived since Wednesday, and I think I can play well here.   
 Q.  You usually start the season in Chennai.  Is there anything more difficult about coming to Australia earlier, or did you feel it's better preparation for the Australian Open?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I think, for me, it's just a different tournament.  For sure it's a bit different conditions compared to India, but I don't think it will change much for the preparation for Australia.   
I'm just enjoying a new tournament that I never played that I'm playing for the first time.  New facility, new court, new fans, new city, and that's what make the difference.  Especially at 31 years old, when you've been on the tour for so long, to play some new tournaments, it make you a little bit fresher mentally, also.   
 Q.  Does it make it more fun, in a way, sort of discovering a new place where you are in your career?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, for sure, especially after many years on the tour.  I played nine years in Chennai.  I really enjoy to play there.  To play nine years, it's quite long.   
But, for me, it was nice to change, especially after all I heard about Brisbane, about the tournament.  Everybody was talking so positive about it.  I'm really happy I took that decision to come here.   
 Q.  There were a couple of moments where, you know, games could have gone either way.  In terms of your preparation, where do you think you are for the first major of the season?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I think I'm playing well.  I think I did good offseason.   
It's the beginning of the year, so you're looking a little bit for your game, looking a little bit for your confidence.  Winning a match like that for me, it's good.   
For sure, I want to win more matches here.  That's my goal, and that will be good if I can make it.  But I know also the season is long, so I need not only focus on short term but on long term.  I think I'm doing the right things on the practice courts.  I'm working hard enough to expect some good results here.   
 Q.  Playing Kyle Edmund next.  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah.   
 Q.  Do you know him?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, he's a great player, arrived in the top 50 last year for the first time.  I played him in Shanghai.  He played, I think, like, 11 matches in 10 days just before, so it was not the match of the year.   
But he's a tough player.  He's improving, going up.  It's going to be an interesting match to play him.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT