ROLAND GARROS
September 30, 2020
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  S. WAWRINKA/K. Koepfer
 6-3, 6-2, 3-6, 6-1
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. This seems to be the Roland Garros, the dropshot, that's the shot of Roland Garros, because of the conditions.  In your opinion, who has the best dropshots on the men's and women's side?
 STAN WAWRINKA:   Novak Djokovic.  I think for me, I think he has the best since he arrive on the tour.  He's using a lot the dropshot, especially on the backhand side.  It's tough to play when he start to feel good.
 Q. And women's?
 STAN WAWRINKA:   I don't know.  I don't know.  I watch a lot of woman tennis, but I don't know who is doing good dropshots.
 Q. You got off to a great start here, played with lots of enthusiasm and energy.  You have been described today as a Stanimal.  In terms of how you're feeling right now, what animal do you think you're playing like and why?
 STAN WAWRINKA:   It's a nickname I got a few years ago already.  I don't know which animal I'm playing like.
 I'm happy so far with my start at the French Open.  Today was great match again, great condition.  Got some sun a bit, so was good.
 Q. Where did you spend most of the lockdown and what was the most difficult thing about it for you?
 STAN WAWRINKA:   Most of the lockdown I was in Switzerland to spend a lot of time with my daughter.  I have to say honestly that I took the lockdown in the right way, the chance to be in Switzerland where we had the chance to still be able to go out, be able to spend time with my daughter.  Also it was a great time for that.  Let's say that.
 The most difficult part was I think -- for me, I'm a lucky person.  I have a good life.  I had a great career already.  When you see what's happening around the world, like, I really cannot complain about my situation.
 Q. There was a really loud bang during the match.  It was actually a fighter plane breaking the speed of sound.  People were panicking on Twitter, worried it was an explosion.  What was your reaction?
 STAN WAWRINKA:   I was shocked like everybody.  For sure, we ask the umpire to let me know what was it.  Everybody had the answer quite early, so was all good.
 Q. There's lots of talk about how competitive you can be at Roland Garros this year.  How competitive do you think you can be over the next two weeks?
 STAN WAWRINKA:   I'm ready for it.  I've been practicing right.  I'm feeling good.  I like the condition here.  I enjoy being back playing Grand Slam.  It's great to be able and have the chance to play this year French Open.  Seeing what's happening in the world, it's something different.  We are lucky to be able to play here.
 I'm ready for it.  I'm ready for next round.  Let's see what will happen in the next two weeks.
 Q. It looked pretty convincing so far.  What are your conclusions of the two matches?
 STAN WAWRINKA:   My conclusion, that I'm ready.  I'm playing well.  I'm moving well.  I'm feeling good on the court.  That's it.  It's a Grand Slam.  It can be long two weeks.  It's match after match.  You need to stay into it.
 As I say, I'm playing really well so far, so I'm looking forward for the next match.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT