BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 16, 2016
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WAWRINKA/M. Cilic   
7-6, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Can you comment on tonight's performance against Marin.  
STAN WAWRINKA: Was great match.  I'm really happy with the way I played in general.  Was a tough match, for sure.  Two tiebreak.   
In general, I think the level was really high.  I'm happy with many things tonight:  the way I was mentally on the court, the way I was moving.  I think I was moving great.  I had some good defense, some long rallies.  I mixed a lot with my game in general.   
Yeah, it's a great victory for me.   
 Q.  Having lost the first of the round-robin matches, how much extra focus did you feel was upon you, pressure going into this one, because it was important to stay alive?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, but it's not the first time I'm in that situation, losing the first match.  Played a bad match the first day.  I wasn't at all good on the court.   
Again, I'm here to try to enjoy.  I'm here to try to do the maximum I can.  It's the best tournament you can play in the ATP World Tour.  It's still always a dream for me to be here.  I'm trying to enjoy, I'm trying to do the right thing, I'm trying to fight as much as I can to stay alive on the tournament.  It was important tonight to play well.   
 Q.  Do you know you have to play Murray next match?  Do you know if you beat him in two sets, and Nishikori beats Cilic, he's out?  Is that something you couldn't care less?  
STAN WAWRINKA: It's something for me, I don't care at all.  All I know is if I want to have a chance to qualify, I need to win.  That's all I know.  That's all I'm trying to do.   
I'm going to try to play my best tennis, to beat the world No. 1.  It's going to be a tough match.  We played many times each other.  He's playing his best tennis so far.  It's going to be interesting.  I'm happy to play here in front of his home crowd.  I'm sure it's going to be a great atmosphere.   
 Q.  To win in two or three sets doesn't make any difference?  
STAN WAWRINKA: It's always better to win in two sets, but you don't decide before the match.  For me it's already tough to beat Andy Murray here.  I'm going to focus on what I can do, try to win, and we will see after the match.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT