BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 14, 2016
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. NISHIKORI/S. Wawrinka   
6-2, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You've played very well here in the past.  Didn't seem to happen for you today.  What was your take on the match?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, it was not a great match compared to what I can do, that's for sure.  Wasn't a great day for myself.  In general, I think he play well, put a lot of pressure from the beginning.   
Yeah, I don't think I find anything on the court today.  I was a little bit slow on everything.  I was hesitating a lot with my game, my movement.   
 Q.  You have been carrying that knee a little bit from what you said the other day.  Do you feel like the season is catching up with you a bit physically?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Past few weeks for sure maybe a little bit.  But I don't know, I felt better last two days on the court.  I thought I could have play better today, but I didn't find any solution to play a better tennis today.   
 Q.  Are you saying you were prevented from playing your best because of soreness, because of injury, because of tiredness, or do you see yourself being able to pick up your level in the remaining two group matches?  
STAN WAWRINKA: No.  As I say, I was feeling better on the court, so I thought I could play at a better level today.  I was expecting a good match.  Didn't happen today.  Not the first time that I lose the first match here.  Last year I lost against Rafa, really bad match.   
I'm sure I still have something inside me to play some great tennis before the end of the year, so I'm going to try everything for that in the next match.  I'm going to do what I need to do tomorrow to get ready for trying to play better in two days.   
 Q.  It's unusual to see a non-British player wearing a poppy on his shirt.  Why was that important for you to do?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Because when you go in each country, you try to respect what happen in that country.  For me was important to have a (indiscernible) about it.   
 Q.  Did you feel okay playing Kei today compared to previous matchups, like the US Open?  
STAN WAWRINKA: No, I think he played his game.  We know each other really well.  I think he start the way he always start against me:  trying to be aggressive, trying to play fast.  He was good enough to beat me in two sets.   
 Q.  You've played well here before obviously.  How do you assess the playing conditions this year compared to the previous years?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Maybe a little bit faster.  Not crazy fast, but a little bit faster compared to last few years.  In general, it's quite good condition to play.   
 Q.  Better than previous years?  
STAN WAWRINKA: So far not because I just lost the match, but I will see at the end of the tournament (smiling).   
 Q.  I'm sure you're not thinking about this, but in the UK we're very excited about Andy maybe finishing the year at No. 1.  When he's coming in off all those tournament victories, does he have a bit more momentum than Novak in that race?  
STAN WAWRINKA: For sure he has more confidence from the past few months, winning every tournament he play.  Novak wasn't playing that good.   
But, again, it's the World Tour Final.  It's a group qualification to make the semifinal.  Novak won the first yesterday.  Everything start from zero.   
So it's going to be interesting to see, for sure, from outside to look what's going to happen.  It was already an interesting match yesterday, watching Novak playing, winning, finding a better game than I think he played the last few months.   
Yeah, going to be an interesting match tonight for Andy, and the rest of the tournament.   
 Q.  Can I ask you an off-court question.  In recent years with your success on the court, there have been more endorsements coming your way.  Another one has just been announced today.  Do you start to see yourself personally as a bit of a brand now?  Federer, Williams, Djokovic could be regarded as brands.  What about yourself?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I'm not trying to compare myself to other player, other sports people.  Trying to do what's good for me, what's right.   
I'm really happy with my main sponsor, especially, Yonex, because we've been together since many years.  Hopefully I going to finish my career with them, so we can really improve what we're doing together.   
 Q.  Back to the No. 1 race.  Obviously we had one player very dominant the first half of the year, Andy more dominant the second.  When you look at the overall picture, the Olympics might play a big role because there were no points in that event.  What is your thinking regarding that?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Nothing to think about it now.  They played one year before.  That was no points.  I don't think it's at the end of the year a question you have to put back and say, If we had points in the Olympic, he would be in front of the ranking.  I think Andy is not thinking about that at all.   
I think he's in great position to finish No. 1 because he's in front now.  He has a good chance to do it at home.  It can be amazing tournament for him.   
But, again, as I say, I think it's going to be really interesting from outside to look at them and see who is going to take the No. 1 spot.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT