SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 12, 2016
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WAWRINKA/K. Edmund   
6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  No after-effects of the injury that kept you out last week?  
STAN WAWRINKA: No.  I feel good.  I arrive here quite early.  I had two days again struggling with my back.  But since now two days I feel really good.   
On the court I think I was playing good today.  Moving well, also, that's the most important thing when I have some back problem, and I feel more or less 100%.   
 Q.  Pardon me for asking, but from a British perspective I'm interested:  What do you think of Kyle?  
STAN WAWRINKA: He's improving a lot this year, that's for sure.  I watch him few times playing, US Open and also in Beijing last week.   
I think he has good game.  He has good game today.  It wasn't easy.  I was playing well.  I was taking control of the game quickly, so I'm really happy with myself but for sure he's going to keep improving.   
 Q.  Can you speak a little about the mental aspect?  You spoke about anxiety.  Novak has been talking about rediscovering joy with playing tennis.  Your thoughts?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Tennis, it's a big mental game, also, with the stress you can have, with the focus on the match.  I mean, you need to work on yourself all the time to be ready for that, especially if you want to win matches, big matches, and be at the top.   
You know, I think you always have some up-and-down in your career.  You cannot always be at your top.  You need to find solution for that.   
 Q.  You must be in touch sometimes with Roger.  How is he doing?  And is he on track for coming back next year?  Do you want to see him back in the top four again?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I think he's practicing.  I don't know if he's gonna be back in the top four.  We will see.  It's the first time he has a big injury.  It's not easy to come back after that.   
But if he's fit and 100%, for sure he will be really dangerous.   
 Q.  For yourself, after the high of the US Open, how do you keep the motivation for the rest of the year to finish off these few events and go to the World Tour Finals?  Was it tough to kind of get on the plane to Asia this time?  
STAN WAWRINKA: No, the motivation is easy, for sure.  You know, I'm really happy what's happen in US Open.  But still a lot of challenge this year with here, with Basel, Paris, London.   
I'm excited to keep playing, especially trying to keep the confidence that I have and trying to push myself the maximum to keep doing some great result.   
 Q.  Do you have any particular goals for the rest of this year?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I never have straight goal except the beginning of the season for me was to qualify for London.  My goal is to do the right thing, to practice well, to be strong and tough with myself mentally, to fight in every matches.  That's the only way I can give myself chance to win big title.   
 Q.  I had to ask everyone this yesterday so I will ask you.  What do you think about Maria Sharapova playing in a big exhibition in Las Vegas when she's still supposedly suspended?  
STAN WAWRINKA: When did she play?  Monday?  Ah.   
Not much, honestly.  Not much.  That's not something I want to talk about in general.  I didn't know she was playing exhibition.  I didn't read or see that, so I don't know, honestly.  Sorry.   
 Q.  Can you talk about what the toughest part of playing the sport is.  
STAN WAWRINKA: There is many thing was not easy if you want to be at the top.  But I think at the end of the day, for me, it's more -- I see more the chance to play tennis, it's my passion, it's a sport, I love the game.  I enjoy to practice, I enjoy to find solution, to be a better tennis player.   
So, for me, the more I enjoy, the better I can play.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT