SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 9, 2016
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  After playing really well on hard courts in the last few months, what are your expectations coming into this week?  
STAN WAWRINKA: We'll see.  It's a Masters 1000, a strong draw like always with almost everybody playing, so we need to start well.  So far I'm quite happy with the practice.  I would say it's a little bit faster than last year, but in general I'm feeling good.   
 Q.  Congratulations for your winning US Open.  What's your next goal in your career?  
STAN WAWRINKA: It's still always the same, trying to keep improving, trying to keep doing the right thing to try to be a better player.   
I know that results will always come when I'm practicing well and when I do the right thing.   
 Q.  (off microphone.)  
STAN WAWRINKA: It's a long time.   
 Q.  You're in one of what seems to be one of the easier quarters of the draw.  How far ahead do you normally look in a draw in a tournament?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I look at all the draw in general, but then, you know, always you look the first match.  You cannot look more than that because you need to be ready for that.   
So we'll see.  Playing qualifier Delbonis.  I already played Delbonis in the past.  I lost to him, so it's gonna be an interesting match if I play against him.  Qualifying, we'll see who's gonna qualify.   
 Q.  Obviously you're here to be playing tennis and that's your main focus, but can you talk a little bit about what you think about the city of Shanghai and sort of any sites that you would recommend, something you've personally experienced during your time here?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Always enjoy to come back.  I think we have a chance that the tournament is doing amazing job first for the player, not only on-site but also off-site if we want to discover the city, if we want to go to nice restaurant.   
So I always enjoy my time here, for sure.  It's take time to come on-site so you cannot always go in restaurant during the night, but in general it's a great city.   
 Q.  You have a great record in Grand Slam final, three times.  Do you think you're that kind of player, live for the big moments?  
STAN WAWRINKA: For sure it's something amazing for me to have played three final and to have won all those three against No. 1 player.  Something really special and all three times I was playing my best tennis.   
I'm getting confidence, win by win, in Grand Slams.  So when I start to play well in the final at tournament, I know that I can beat anybody.   
 Q.  In the last couple of weeks there has been a couple of younger players in the tour who have won their first titles, like Khachanov, Pouille.  I'm wondering if you could just talk a little bit about what you think about these new group of players coming up and maybe if you have any ones that maybe if you like watching their game, anyone in specific?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, I think there is a big group of the next generation, that's for sure.  But it's been a little time now that they're here.  They already trying to be at the top.  A few are already in the top 20.   
It's interesting to see to a new player, a new game to play against.  For sure I watch, always watch, always try to watch all the player.  I lost against Zverev in St. Petersburg.  He won his first title there.  He was always playing really well.  It's going to be interesting to see what's happening with all those players.   
 Q.  Looking ahead to next year, if you had two wishes, one for yourself and then one for the game of tennis in general, what would those two wishes be?  
STAN WAWRINKA: For tennis in general, that Roger will be back at the top with no injury.  I think it's always good for everybody when he's playing.  And for myself, I don't have any -- I'm working every day to try to make the best I can with my tennis career, so we'll see how I can play next year.   
 Q.  You have really amazing Snapchat.  How much time do you spend on your phone in Snapchat?  
STAN WAWRINKA: It's not chat, not so much.  I try to do few things for fans and for people and my phone a little bit more.  Stay in contact with fans.  Yeah, phone is always busy.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT