U.S. OPEN
September 1, 2016
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. WAWRINKA/A. Giannessi
6-1, 7-6, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. After all these years struggling mentally, now you got to a place where others see you as a big threat.  Are you convinced that you are a threat?
STAN WAWRINKA: I'm where I am right now.  I'm No. 3 in the world with a great career so far.  I'm happy with what I'm doing so far in my career.  I'm happy the way I'm playing so far in this tournament.  Let's see what can happen.
Q. Can you talk a bit about the match today.  It was kind of a tough match on Armstrong against a opponent I suppose you don't know so well.  Can you talk about it.
STAN WAWRINKA: I think in general was a great level.  I'm feeling well, playing some good shot.  Armstrong I think is a little bit faster than what used to be, a little bit faster than the other courts.
But, yeah, I never play against him, but I watch before, and I talk with Magnus.  I knew what to expect.  Is great player.  He has some great shots.  He's feeling the ball well.
Was a tough match, as I expect.  But I think I'm quite happy to have won in three sets.
Q. Crucial moments in the second set.  Were you happy you were able to turn it around, to finish it in three?
STAN WAWRINKA: It's always better to win in three sets, that's for sure.  But I was ready to go even longer in that court.  Was not as hot as the other day, but was really humid.
But, yeah, I think except that little moment when I got broken in the second, a few games when I was a little bit out mentally, not focused as I wanted.  But I came back.  In general, I think was a great level.
Q. Was it tough today with the rain and the waiting to stay focused?
STAN WAWRINKA: Not really.  We are used to that.  We know that here it's far from the hotel.  We used every year to have some raining day.  I arrive at 3:00 at the stadium.  Wasn't that bad at the end.
Q. Doesn't mean with your bright outfit that you looked at the pictures and you liked it so you switched to black?
STAN WAWRINKA: No, it's okay so far.
Q. You'll stick with it?
STAN WAWRINKA: So far, yeah, it's okay.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT