U.S. OPEN
September 5, 2016
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WAWRINKA/I. Marchenko   
6-4, 6-1, 6-7, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Being No. 3 in the world, it seems this US Open is very focused on Djokovic and Nadal coming from injuries, del Potro coming back.  Do you find you're flying underneath the radar?  You haven't been on Ashe.  Does it bother you?  Less pressure?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I played first match on Arthur Ashe, first round.  But it's okay.   
No, I don't mind.  I don't mind.  It's normal that all the focus are on Novak and Andy.  They're the two big favorite of the tournament.  Del Potro coming back from injury, playing really well again.  He won here.   
So I don't really mind.  I'm doing my tournament, and we'll see at the end.   
 Q.  Five-setter the other night, tough match today.  How are you feeling physically right now?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I feel good.  I was a little bit tired yesterday.  I didn't really know what to expect today, this morning.  But since the beginning, I was feeling 100%.  I was feeling good on the court.  Even if it was close from three hours, I don't think it's going to affect a lot in two days.   
So far I think I'm feeling great.   
 Q.  How can you look forward to the next round?  The best backhand meets the best forehand in the next round.  It's on a surface which you've never met del Potro, hard court.  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, it's going to be good challenge to play against him.  I'm excited to play against him in the quarterfinal here at the US Open.  We play each other already this year at Wimbledon.  He beat me.  So it's going to be a good match again.   
He's playing really well.  I saw him playing against Ferrer.  He's playing really strong.  In Olympic also, is there, is beating the top guys also.   
It's going to be difficult match.  But for both of us I think it's going to be important to try to dictate and be aggressive on the court.   
 Q.  (Question about comparing next round to past matches against each other.)  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yes, there's many things.  But in the same time it's different tournament, different surface.  It's not the second round, also.  It's the quarter.  There's many thing that's going to be completely new.  We never play each other on hard court, so it's going to be interesting to see how it's going to be also, how his ball is going to be, how he's going to play also.   
But for sure I have a few things I don't want to do that I did in Wimbledon.   
 Q.  Give us your assessment of the match today.  What was working for you?  What were the particular challenges he presented for you?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I think in general was really good match except served for the match in the third set.  Was really windy.  Maybe we don't see from outside, but on the court was really, really windy, so wasn't easy to play nice and good tennis.  I had to adapt a little bit.  I had to play with those conditions, try to make it work for myself.   
In general I'm really happy to have won again four sets.  I could have won in three, but it happened in four.  There's a lot of positives to be in quarterfinal again.   
 Q.  At all four Grand Slams, you're in the last eight club.  
STAN WAWRINKA: That's good.   
 Q.  Just wondering how that changes your life.  
STAN WAWRINKA: No, that's great.  I think I never imagine having that career when I was younger, to have won two Grand Slams so far.  So, yeah, I'm really happy with all the result I'm doing, especially in Grand Slam.   
 Q.  In the club, have you enjoyed any of the benefits of that?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I think not yet.  As long as you play, you don't enjoy anything in a Grand Slam.  You just have some busy day, trying to make it work to go far in the tournament.   
That's something for sure you can enjoy when you retired and come back.  I think it's a great thing for explayer to come back and watch some tennis, have the possibility to invite some guests.   
 Q.  When things don't go well for you, we saw that in the five-setter the other night, you seem to regroup really well.  There's a strong belief you can get out of the situation.  Is that how you feel when you're in a bit of trouble?  
STAN WAWRINKA: Yeah, that's most of the time what I feel.  I always think there is a solution during the match.  Always try to find what I can do better.  The only thing I can really control is the way I'm fighting.  That's what I did the other night, is trying to fight as much as I could to win the match.   
I turn it.  For sure you always get a little bit lucky when you save match point.  But I'm really happy now because I won again today and now I'm in quarterfinal.   
 Q.  Against del Potro, do the tactics change because of the way he hits his backhand compared to the way he did before?  
STAN WAWRINKA: I don't really think so.  When I play him on grass, he was slicing a lot, that's for sure.  But also was good on grass to do the slice he was doing.   
If I look now the way he's playing on hard court, against Ferrer, against all the other players in the Olympics, his backhand is strong.  He's returning.  He doesn't use the slice as much as he did on grass.   
At the end I think the tactic is more or less the same.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT