PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2010
David Hutsell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. I guess first of all I'm sure maybe all of this runs together but talk about your two rounds here at this year's championship. 
 DAVID HUTSELL: Well, I got off to a nice start yesterday with a couple of early birdies on the back nine, the downwind holes played a little easier, of course, and once we turned back into the wind and made a few bogeys and kind of in the middle of the round there that cost me a little stretch of three bogeys in a row there. 
 I never quite recovered from there. 
 Today, got off to a nice start with a birdie on 1. Thought maybe we would get something going, but I don't know maybe a little fatigue set in. A couple long days, trying to figure out when you're going to play and so I guess it caught up with me a little bit, so, but it was a great experience, had a lot of fun, played with two fine gentlemen and it was something to think about for a long time. 

 Q. Obviously hope to be back as soon as next year. How much is this year going to help you when you do finally get back?
 DAVID HUTSELL: I certainly think it's motivating. To get back home, work hard on the game, our section championship actually starts in a couple days, so really no rest right now, going to get right back into it, but it's certainly a fun experience and one that I would like to do again.

 Q. How would you compare this Pete Dye course to the one in French Lick that you played on?
 DAVID HUTSELL: Well, this one being close to the water, the wind was certainly more of a factor, visually, you know, there were some similarities, and it's really just a matter of getting your lines off the tee. The rough here was certainly a lot longer. We didn't have nearly the length of rough at French Lick that there is here, but, you know, so I think that plays quite a bit of a factor. But greens were a little softer here than I expected, there wasn't much they could do about it with all the recent rain.

 Q. Talk about just representing your section and what that means to you. 
 DAVID HUTSELL: It's a great honor. To represent the mid-Atlantic section, we have such a strong playing section, a lot of good players back home that it's a pleasure to compete there and to be here representing them is an honor. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT