NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RANGERS v FLYERS
May 20, 1997
Wayne Gretzky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Close game.  What happened?  It was a wild period.

WAYNE GRETZKY:  Well, it was kind of a strange game in a lot of ways.  They were tremendous the first 12 minutes of the hockey game, and second period, we really picked up our game and created some opportunities.  And then the goal early in the third obviously got us on track, and we tied it up.  And seemed like we were right back in the hockey game.  And then, you know, they score another big goal and we tied it up again. And before we knew it, we were down 4-3.  Then they got a breakaway, so it was definitely a tough way for us to lose, because we had been pretty strong as a defensive unit up until this point.  But, as I say, we are playing against better offensive players.  Give a guy an opening -- or give a guy an opening, they could take advantage of that.  And it seems like that is what happened tonight.

Q.  After you tied up the score the second time --

WAYNE GRETZKY: I think one thing I can honestly say is that our team plays with a lot of heart.  We were down two goals, we just kept battling back.  Tied it up.  We got down again, we tied it up again.  We don't quit.  We lost the game,.  They deserved to win the game.  They were up 2 to 1.  But, bad news, you have got to win four games.  So we lost.  And they deserve to win the hockey game.  And they deserve the credit.  But, you know, we regroup on Friday.

Q.  Anything in particular that you think caused the defensive breakdowns tonight?

WAYNE GRETZKY: Well, not really.  I don't know.  It was a battle along the boards. And the third goal, those things happen.  The fourth goal, our "D" went to knock it down, jumped in the air, hit a skate and -- hit a skate and their guy made a nice break and took off.  But, you know, those are the kinds of breaks we had been getting ourselves.  They deserved the breaks they created because you create your own breaks.  Good times and hard work and good players create their own situations and they deserve to win.

Q.  Wayne, the physical aspect of it the first two games, how do you expect it to go the next two?

WAYNE GRETZKY:  Well, I don't particularly think anything is going to change.  Not going to be a lot of different things that go on.  Pretty much you will see the same hockey in game 4.

Q.  Do you think for yourself, is this a more physical series than anything you have ever faced?

WAYNE GRETZKY: I would say Playoff Hockey is Playoff Hockey.  Every team in the Playoffs plays physical. 

Q.  Can you take another body going down, Wayne?

WAYNE GRETZKY: Well, that is part of the game.  We hope it doesn't happen.  But, if it does, we will work through it.  We are not going to make excuses about injuries.

Q.  Coming back and yet failing just because of downs here and there, how difficult is it to take the loss?

WAYNE GRETZKY:  It is a tough loss.  But they deserve to win.  They played very well.  And they created their own opportunities.  They deserve to win.  Yeah, we were disappointed and frustrated.  But we have got to think it is over now, we lost, we are disappointed.  It was disappointing in a lot of ways.  We rallied back and rallied the fans behind us, and it was an exciting time, and we let it slip away.  But we got to now focus on Friday.

Q.  In your view, what made the difference between how Eric played in game 2 and now?

WAYNE GRETZKY: You have to ask Eric that.

Q.  In your view?

WAYNE GRETZKY: I can't get in his head.

Q.  How about Mike Richter?

WAYNE GRETZKY: Well, if you look at the goals he has let in, I mean, come on.  Lindros has got a great shot and Brind'Amour is a breakaway and 2 on 1.  I mean, we are not really -- it is not really like he is letting them back goals. Every goal has been a good goal.

Q.  How do you regroup now?  You have got two days off as opposed to one, I guess that will help.

WAYNE GRETZKY:  Well, one day at a time and obviously it is going to be a tough day tomorrow, but we have all been here before.  It is not going to be a new situation for us. Like I said, they played well.  They deserve to beat us.  We are not making excuses.  We are, you know, as a team, we battled back and we didn't give up.  We didn't quit.  Kept coming back, but it wasn't enough.  But, as I said, there is no excuses, we lost.

Q.  Yourself, in game 2, you had the hat trick and today Lindros.  Can you talk -- in the Playoffs, is that the type of play that excels, the guys you look for that type of thing -- like what makes it so --

WAYNE GRETZKY: Oh, I don't know.  Probably even too tired to get into that tonight.

Q.  How difficult is it when they got that power game going?

WAYNE GRETZKY:  That is their strength, obviously. They are one of the biggest teams ever assembled in hockey. Their strength and forte is to cycle down low, and you know, when they can take advantage of that, obviously they are one of the best teams in hockey in doing it.  Especially the first 12 or 13 minutes of the hockey game, I thought they played really strong.  And they really played well along -- well along the  corner.  But, as the game went on, we were able to neutralize that a little bit by playing more aggressive on the puck and more aggressive in their zone.  But, if you give them that opportunity, they are as good as anybody that has ever been assembled by playing that.

Q.  Would it have mattered if you would have scored first?

WAYNE GRETZKY: I don't think so.  I think this series is a little bit different than any series than we have had in the last two -- this team is a little bit more talented offensively than Florida and New Jersey - simple as that.  And, whether we are down 2 or whether they are down 2, both teams have shown they can come back.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT