NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
January 19, 1996
Wayne Gretzky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Is it nice to be here?

WAYNE GRETZKY:  Well All-Star games are always fun and I think it is the time, obviously, when the League gets to show you -- show off its best players; most exciting players, so for all of us it is an opportunity to get to see each other and have some fun and some laughs and relax and enjoy yourself.  So from that point of view, it is always fun, but you know, that this is what it is about selling our game, so we are all enjoying it.


Q.  Can you have fun and relax considering all the hubbub about the situation with the Kings?

WAYNE GRETZKY:  Well, you know, I think the big thing though is anybody who is a free agent goes through certain distractions or certain rumors and you know, in New York, Verbeek is a free agent and I am reading things about him.  So it is just natural when your contract is up, people are going to start guessing or wanting to have answers of what is going to happen next year, and because of the situation I am in -- it is kind of a unique one.  It kind of all has bubbled to the top; probably quicker than anyone thought, and as I told the media people in L.A. after the game the other night, I don't know what is going to happen.  I don't really have an answer for anybody right now, but I made my point.  I said my piece and I don't back down from what I said.


Q.  The uncertainty about the whole situation, is that affecting you either on or off the ice in any way?

WAYNE GRETZKY:  I hope it is not affecting me on the ice, but I can say honestly that on the weekend that mentally it kind of hit me like a ton of bricks.  It kind of where I just kind of sat down and, yeah, definitely felt it.

But you know, that is part of our profession and that just goes with the business, but, yeah, I mean, I am at a point now where I wouldn't say I am worried about it, but obviously, I am thinking about it.


Q.  What hit you like a ton of bricks?

WAYNE GRETZKY:  Just this whole buildup of different rumors from being traded, not being traded; being signed, not being signed - that sort of thing.  It kind of finally caught up to me.


Q.  Wayne, how about the timing of it all dragging on.  You had said last -- by this Tuesday you would have a better idea. Where is that at right now?

WAYNE GRETZKY:  Well, I think that the immediate answers that I thought we would probably get didn't really materialize as far as  -- obviously, I didn't get traded and obviously, I didn't re-sign.  So we are still in limbo, but it was a positive meeting in that I think we might be on the same page now in the sense that I just felt that guys like Yachmenev and Berg are a big part of this hockey club and they are the future of the L.A. Kings and they deserve to be playing now, but I just didn't want people the thoughts of the organization to be that, well our plan is doing three years from now because that doesn't do a whole lot of good for Wayne Gretzky and I wanted to make sure everyone was on the same page.  I would like to have a chance to win now - simple as that.


Q.  I don't know if you have been aware but the first time in your public profile, public career, people have questioned a little bit your -- let me use is the word "attitude" about some of the comments you have made regarding yourself have been  self-centered, let's say, than in your previous career.  Do you acknowledge that at all?  Do you agree with that?

WAYNE GRETZKY:  Well, I don't back down from what I said.  I said that earlier.  People are always going to -- that is what it is all about in professional sports.  You have pros and cons to go with everything.  You have people that like what you say or don't like what you say.

Sometimes I get criticized for not being strong enough and now that I have come forward and said my piece, but I think that what people are forgetting who are saying things that I said from day one, that the bottom line was I wanted what was best for myself and what was best for the L.A. Kings and if what was best for the L.A. Kings was to get some new guys, some young guys for Wayne Gretzky, then all the more power to them.  I don't think that is self-serving.

WAYNE GRETZKY:  As I said the other day if it was Messier or Mario, they probably would have stepped forward a long time ago and made their points clear.


Q.  If you don't regret the situation, do you regret the timing of the situation that here we are at the All-Star game and we are all here to talk to you about your own personal situation?

WAYNE GRETZKY:  Well, that is out of my control.  I mean, I can't -- that is out of my power.  This is -- it has been going on for ten days.  I can't control that.  I can't tell you guys to stop writing things.


Q.  We talked to your dad earlier today and he said there was a time when you were growing up when you would have -- he would have been excited to see you as an NHL hockey player; now as the great one.  Your thoughts on your family.

WAYNE GRETZKY:  Well, this is one of greatest things about the All-Star game is that we get a chance to bring our families around and you know, we all grew up dreaming of playing in the All-Star game and I am no different than anyone else, so this is always an exciting time for everyone and I am thrilled that again to be invited back.


Q.  (inaudible)

WAYNE GRETZKY:  I don't know.  From what I heard it is Brett and I and Paul Kariya, but I am not -- I am not sure I am not going to get into that, Bob.


Q.  Had a chance to talk to Brett about possibly being a teammate again?

WAYNE GRETZKY:  We didn't talk about that.  We had dinner last night but didn't talk about that.


Q.  (inaudible)

WAYNE GRETZKY:  Not really.  I believe in protocol and if protocol is sit down with the general manager and the president; that is fine by me.  I don't have a problem with that.


Q.  As fierce a competitor as you are, you used to win Cups regularly.  It has been a long time.  How tough has that been for you?

WAYNE GRETZKY:  Well, I can tell you this that four Cups I won in Edmonton was something real special, and there is no feeling like winning and the year we got to the finals with L.A. was something very special because we weren't supposed to be there. All the years we won in Edmonton when we got the Cup, everyone said you guys are supposed to have the Cup.  We knew in Edmonton that it was a lot of work that won us the Cup; obviously, a little bit of talent.  Yeah, I think about the finals.  I want to get back to the finals and I believe our hockey club is a team that has a lot of veteran players that is in a conference - in any team  that gets hot can get ugly.  Obviously Detroit and Colorado are the most talented.  That doesn't mean, by any means, that they are going to walk away with the Conference title.  I really believe that if you get in the playoffs everybody has an opportunity to win.  That is what it is all about.  If you are not trying to win, then you are in the wrong profession because that is what makes hockey fun.


Q.  All these dreams you are getting to live through, Travis Roy will never be able to.  You kind of become pretty close to the situation.  You visited him in the hospital.  You donated some money.  Can you talk about your visit with him and what compelled you to help out in this situation?

WAYNE GRETZKY:  Well, first of all, everything I have in my life is because of hockey and there is always the unfortunate incident an accident that happens that really is dreadful and this is a tragic case.  Its a tough time for not only Travis but for his whole family and friends.  We just went over there as teammates just to kind of lift his spirits and I think everyone and the whole family has done a tremendous job in helping this young boy and hopefully we can do the best we can to help him have the best life that he can have possible.


Q.  How close to home did that hit for you?

WAYNE GRETZKY:  Well, I have always been -- when I play the game, I just play.  I don't think too much about it, but I have kids who now play and yeah, it is scary.  I mean, but walking across the street, anything can happen.  It is just a difficult situation and it is very frustrating I am sure for the whole family, and it is one of those freaky accidents that you just don't know why it happens.


Q.  Back to yourself with the Kings, the longer this goes on, do you lean one way or the other?

WAYNE GRETZKY:  No.  I have told them I have made my point clear and as far as the Kings go and myself goes we have made our opinions heard and as far as I know, I don't know when we are going to meet again, but we did leave the meeting on a positive note and we will go from there.


Q.  Nothing changed then since this all started; your feelings remain the same?

WAYNE GRETZKY:  Yes.


Q.  You don't go home now back to L.A. expecting something to happen; something imminent; youare shifting your focus?

WAYNE GRETZKY:  Nothing.  I don't think anything is going to happen over the next little while.


Q.  Thanks, Wayne.

WAYNE GRETZKY:  All right, guys.  See you guys later.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT