NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 23, 2001
Wayne Gretzky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Before anything else, there was a report that you had made a trade with Dallas for Bouck; is that correct?

WAYNE GRETZKY: It's not official yet. 


Q.  What was the feeling like for you to be on the other end of the draft, to be the guy -- you know, to be picking players rather than the one who was picked in the last year?

WAYNE GRETZKY: Well, it's hard to compare because I never got drafted.  So from that point of view, I didn't get that feeling, but it was exciting for us because we had so many picks early.  And we felt that obviously redoing this team, that this was an important draft for us and so our guys worked really hard in getting what we wanted and the players that we needed to give us a strong future.  So today was obviously a big day for our organization. 


Q.  Wayne, can you just talk a little bit about how frustrating or how difficult the challenge is?  On the one hand I know you're trying to stay competitive, on the other hand you're trying to keep your payroll down.  Can you just talk about that.  Maybe how your attitude has changed from being a player onto an owner?

WAYNE GRETZKY: It's pretty simple.  When you have a team that's battling for eighth and ninth place and you have a $42 million payroll, that's not good enough.  And I really didn't find it difficult whatsoever in making some moves and making decisions to retool this team.  When you're battling for eighth and ninth place with a $42 million payroll, something's wrong, so you can call it whatever you want to call it.  Yeah.  We have cut payroll but in the long run, I think our team will benefit from it.  We're going to be a better team three years from now because of it. 


Q.  What about the time in the middle?

WAYNE GRETZKY: Well, obviously we have our work cut out for us.  There's no question that when you move people, some of the guys, the caliber of players that we moved, that makes it more difficult obviously to be competitive, but our goal hasn't always been to win a championship.  Our goal is to stay in business.  And as everyone knows, we lost $27 million last year.  We just can't possibly keep going at that pace, at that rate.  Fortunately, we built a new arena, we're getting a new arena built, and hopefully in 2003 when we move into that arena, we'll be all set. 


Q.  I'm sure you're getting tired of this question, but on the Olympic front, is there any update at all in your quest to get the guys together in Alberta?

WAYNE GRETZKY: Well, I really quite honestly think that this day belongs to these kids and their families.  And if I tell you what I really think today, we're going to get a big controversy going, so let's wait until Monday and save this weekend for the kids.  How's that?  So I guess I gave you my answer, we're not getting anywhere.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT