NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 4, 2001
Gary Bettman
Wayne Gretzky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  It wouldn't be an All-Star Game, of course, without Wayne Gretzky.  Wayne, last year you had your own private game in Maple Leaf Gardens.  A select few were involved. 
 
WAYNE GRETZKY: I didn't get a chance to skate this year.  I hadn't skated since that time in Maple Leaf Gardens.  This has been a tremendous weekend.  I came with my two boys, and the city of Denver hosted a wonderful time for everyone.  We have just really enjoyed all the festivities around town. 
 

Q.  The return of Mario Lemieux, how surprised are you that he returned in the first place and the way he has dominated since?
 
WAYNE GRETZKY:  I've got to say honestly I was surprised.  My wife Janet told me a long time ago, "Don't be surprised if Mario came back," and she was right again.  But this is just a great story for everyone.  Not only is he important for the game of hockey, but he has done something very special for Pittsburgh and the city of Pittsburgh.  He is just an elite athlete.  On top of all that, he is a wonderful person and this is just one of those great stories for the game of hockey. 
 

Q.  Just a party.  "I can do this too again"?
 
WAYNE GRETZKY:  Well, I wish I could, you know.  I am a little bit older now.  I wish I could go back and play.  That is not in the cards for me.  But it is great for Mario.  It is great for the game.  I am really happy for him.  
 

Q.  Tell me, will you be the owner of the Phoenix Coyotes, just a matter of time?
 
WAYNE GRETZKY:  We are working very hard.  My partner Steve Ellman has worked very, very hard putting this deal together.  It's been a tough situation for everyone involved, but the people at Phoenix have been very patient, and this thing will come together. 
 

Q.  When it does come together, what kind of owner will you be?
 
WAYNE GRETZKY:  Well, I love the game.  I have been here for three days working on Team Canada.  We had some great meetings the last two days involving the Olympics coming up.  I love the game, so I'll be involved, and I enjoy it. 
 

Q.  Thanks for taking the time.
 
WAYNE GRETZKY: Thank you very much. 
  
 COMMISSIONER GARY BETTMAN
 
 Q.  When you applied for this job, did you know it was going to be a lockout within the year?
 
COMMISSIONER BETTMAN:  I knew there was a possibility of disharmony on the labor front because the unions had already struck just previously during the Playoffs.  And my hope was that cooler heads could prevail, but sometimes they are unavoidable.  And that is what we had. 
 

Q.  You had been on record a little bit this weekend, I know we are three years away (from the end of the Collective Bargaining Agreement), but you are saying this problem will be fixed?
 
COMMISSIONER BETTMAN:  Well, because I think it is important that our fans know, particularly our fans in small markets, and particularly our fans in Canada that to the extent we have an economic imbalance it will be addressed long term, because we have no choice.   I want a League that has 30 teams that are economically viable and healthy, that are all competitive so the fans of every team know that they have an equal chance of winning the Stanley Cup, and I want that for our clubs where they are currently located.  
 

Q.  Let's talk about the Canadian teams.  You can't say that for Calgary and Edmonton, can you?
 
COMMISSIONER BETTMAN:  What they've done in Calgary and Edmonton in terms of building the support, Ottawa as well, has been great to stabilize the franchise, and that will certainly get us through the short-term.  If the economic cycle swings and the Collective Bargaining Agreement even clamps down further, then it should be easy to make the next deal.  But if we are still out of balance and the disparities are too great, we are going to address it because it is a priority that our teams and our fans know we have to deal with this. 
 

Q.  Ron Joyce in Calgary sells his 15.1% (inaudible).  You said "well, never mind."  (Inaudible.)  It looks to me what choice do they have?
 
COMMISSIONER BETTMAN:  To the contrary, there is a good ownership group in Calgary.  Nine people can't always agree on everything:  What the approach is, how to proceed, how to deal with issues.  But this demonstrates that the other seven owners in Calgary have stepped up and are committed to make this work. 
 

Q.  I agree with that to an extent.  A few years ago Harley Hotchkiss was a little bit sick of the whole deal, and he is the Chairman of the Board.  Not only that, Ron Joyce is the entrepreneur of the year in Canada in 1999, so if he doesn't see a break ...
 
COMMISSIONER BETTMAN:  I think it is more a question of approach.  Harley as Chairman of the Board, I know, is committed, as are the other NHL owners, to ensuring that this League continues to grow and that our prospects are bright and that we are particularly strong in Canada, because that is the heart and soul of this game. 
 

Q.  How about tell us about Nelson gets so much press.  Good friend of yours.  (Inaudible.)
 
COMMISSIONER BETTMAN: Nelson is a great entrepreneur.  He has done very, very well in his business dealings, and he is a huge hockey fan.  His kids play.  He has a rink in his backyard with his own Zamboni.  He loves the game.  And the good news in Ottawa is things are running so well, Ron Dryden has said over the years that he could use a partner or two to really beef up the franchise from an economic standpoint, making it more stable and putting it on firmer ground.  And now because of how well the community has responded, there is a lot of interest. 
 

Q.  So will Nelson buy in?
 
COMMISSIONER BETTMAN:  Time will tell. 
 

Q.  I would ask you about George Gillett, but I know you are on record about six weeks due diligence (for the sale of the Montreal Canadiens).
 
COMMISSIONER BETTMAN: Give or take.  
 

Q.  Let's get onto this issue of the Owen Nolan hit.  How about you talking about that?  It's not just the Owen Nolan hit. (Inaudible.)
 
COMMISSIONER BETTMAN:  Colie (Colin Campbell) is going to handle it in the ordinary course, obviously.  We are not playing games this weekend, so there is not any pressure to do it.  We will do what we normally do.  And to the extent that he needs to be punished, people will know that we will deal with appropriate acts sternly and appropriately.  This will be no exception to the extent Colie had a chance to review it and decide what was right or wrong with it. 
 

Q.  Was there any accentuated discussion either at the Governor's level or in the Injury Committee meetings about both of these elbows?
 
COMMISSIONER BETTMAN:  Actually, the Injury Committee is fascinating, because what they have concluded because we have gathered more data on injuries than any sports league has ever been committed to doing, and it is a bipartisan program -- doctors, trainers, equipment manufacturers, players, the Players' Association -- and with all we've done, there is no simple answer.  People talk about the boards and concussions.  We looked at video of every concussion incident that we had on videotape, and the majority of them took place in open ice.  So we have got to be very careful.  There is no quick solution, but we are committed to addressing it. 
 

Q.  It does seem to me that there are liberties taken on these hits today.
 
COMMISSIONER BETTMAN: We have fortunately have had to punish less in terms of supplemental discipline this year compared to last, but the severity of the punishment and suspensions have been longer. 
 

Q.  Brad May got only 20, But Marty (McSorley) got over a year.
 
COMMISSIONER BETTMAN:  I don't think you can compare the two acts.  We are not going to debate that now.  I don't think you have enough time.  They were different acts under different circumstances, but both were severely punished. 
 

Q.  How come Mario didn't get a fine as owner about his comments in Phoenix?
 
COMMISSIONER BETTMAN:  We had a number of players say things inappropriately.  You've never seen me fine a player for commenting on calls after the game.  
 

Q.  How come?
 
COMMISSIONER BETTMAN: Because, among other reasons, the Collective Bargaining Agreement limits me to $1,000 and it is not worth it.  
 

Q.  That is a good answer.  Final thought on this All-Star Game and the format pretty much said that you're willing to look at new ideas.  It's an excellent game so far.  There's been not a lot of hits, but there's been a lot of goals scored. 
 
COMMISSION BETTMAN:  Why did you have to backtrack?  You said it was a great game.  
 

Q.  What do you plan to do next year with this (international) format?
 
COMMISSIONER BETTMAN:  With the Olympics coming up, we are committed to an international format, actually my press conference yesterday there was some other international suggestions, and we will take a look at it.  After we go to the Olympics in 2002, we will take a look at what we are doing internationally and the All-Star Game will be part of that consideration.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT