PILOT  PEN TENNIS
August 26, 2005
Juan Ignacio Chela
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How big a factor was the crowd today?

JUAN IGNACIO CHELA: I am used to playing with a big crowd, but yeah, at times it got a little annoying.

Q.  Did going down a break early in that third set kind of sap your confidence a bit?

JUAN IGNACIO CHELA: Yeah, on the serve in that third set he got me really fast and then I was just trying to play catchup, I just couldn't do it.

Q.  At that moment me has said yesterday it will be really tough for anybody to beat Blake on this court this week.  How do you see him progressing in the tournament?

JUAN IGNACIO CHELA: Yes, he's playing high level but all the games are tough and all the players are tough, so to say it's his tournament, it's going to be a tough match.

Q.  He says he has been working on his backhand making it a lot better.  Does it look stronger to you than it used to be?

JUAN IGNACIO CHELA: Yeah, I mean, it's definitely improved but definitely his trademark is still is forehand.  His forehand is really solid. 

Q.  You have to be pleased with your play this week even though you lost, and you have had a good summer here playing in the hard court, do you feel good going into the US Open about how you are playing?

JUAN IGNACIO CHELA: Yes.  Obviously coming off a loss isn't great but I have had a good summer on the hard courts and really motivated to play this next big one on the hard courts, so I think a whole summer I am pretty prepared going into this  -- the next event. 

Q.  When the crowd is clearly rooting for the other guy, do you try to use that emotion to help you?

JUAN IGNACIO CHELA: Yeah, you definitely use that to motivate.  It's much better to play in an atmosphere like that than in a side court where nobody is watching.  The only thing that bothered me when people were cheering off when they shouldn't, kind of like when the point was about to start kind of thing. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT