adidas International
January 12, 2004
Juan Ignacio Chela
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Are you surprised at how well Greg played? 

JUAN IGNACIO CHELA:  No, not really, because he's a great player, he has a power through service.  I couldn't get into a rhythm in any time during the match.

Q.  But under the circumstances, with everything that's going on with Greg at the moment?

JUAN IGNACIO CHELA:  No.  Really, I don't know exactly what's going on in reference of what he's feeling.  I don't know what he is feeling right now.

Q.  How difficult was it for you, when you were in the same position, to practice and to play? 

JUAN IGNACIO CHELA:  Very difficult.  You don't feel willing to play.  To me, it was very difficult to practice and to play.  I didn't feel like doing it. 

Q.  Greg says there's a lot of sympathy for him in the locker room, a lot of support.  Have you seen that? 

JUAN IGNACIO CHELA:  I haven't seen that.  But if he said that, it's because it's happening. 

Q.  Obviously, the problems that you had were three years ago and you're still being asked about it now.  How difficult is it to change people's ideas and save your reputation? 

JUAN IGNACIO CHELA:  It's very difficult.  It's very important to have the people surrounding you giving you support.  Also, for your image, it's very important, the support of the ATP. 

Q.  What do you make of the testing procedures at the ATP?

JUAN IGNACIO CHELA:  I think the procedures are okay.

Q.  So you had no issue with your test?  You accepted your situation? 

JUAN IGNACIO CHELA:  When I was called by the ATP, I was taken by surprise.  I had to face the situation.  I was obliged to know about why this was happening.  Then I started defending myself. 

Q.  Just with your drug test, can you tell us what the drug actually was.  What was the drug that you tested positive for? 

JUAN IGNACIO CHELA:  Methyltestosterone. 

Q.  Have you had a problem since that happened with sponsorships, endorsement deals? 

JUAN IGNACIO CHELA:  No.  I was lucky enough because everybody kept supporting me, all the sponsors.  It was great. 

Q.  So were there special circumstances in your case why you've got the lesser sentence? 


Q.  The special circumstances that allowed you to have a reduced ban, can you explain what they were? 

JUAN IGNACIO CHELA:  I was able to prove during the court case that I was given something that I didn't know what it was. 

Q.  When you saw the draw, did your heart sink when you realized all this had come back up? 

JUAN IGNACIO CHELA:  When I saw the draw, I didn't know yet about Greg's case.  Then I knew it, and I was sure I was going to be asked about this. 

Q.  How much sympathy do you have for Greg? 

JUAN IGNACIO CHELA:  It's something terrible.  I wish nobody to be under these circumstances.  It's a very angry situation you have to go through, you have moments.  I hope he can go through this in the best possible way, that he can keep playing, and playing well. 

Q.  Are you totally behind this situation now? 

JUAN IGNACIO CHELA:  It's something you will never forget.  But I was able to go back to tennis.  It's something I prepared for, planned for my life.  It's something I like.  So I left it behind.  But, on the other hand, it's something you will never forget.

Q.  Do you think that the other players who have tested positive for drugs that have not been named, should they be named as well?  

JUAN IGNACIO CHELA:  I don't know why they don't mention the names.  It's something you should ask the ATP or laboratory.  There must be a reason why they were not openly mentioned. 

Q.  Do you think it's fair that players who are facing drug charges should be allowed to compete? 

JUAN IGNACIO CHELA:  Who made this open? 

Q.  Greg. 

JUAN IGNACIO CHELA:  Until the case, the court case, you are innocent, and then you have also the chance to appeal.  This is known because Greg said that.  But if he wouldn't have said anything, nobody would have known, so he would still be playing. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT