TMS MONTE CARLO
April 19, 2000
Juan Ignacio Chela
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You are having a very exciting start to this year?

JUAN IGNACIO CHELA: Yes, it was a very good year for me. I started with Mexico where I
won. I was playing very well and I have a very strong desire to play.

Q. Did you think that you had lost the match today against Henman when he got back?

JUAN IGNACIO CHELA: Well, at 4-2 he started serving better and he started winning some
few games in a row and it was difficult for me to return his serve. It was quite difficult
but I was able to make it and I was able to win.

Q. He had a point for 4-1 in the third set.

JUAN IGNACIO CHELA: Yes, he had a point for 4-1 and this was a very important moment. I
believe it was the key of the match.

Q. You beat Gustavo Kuerten in Mexico City but this is a Masters Series event, so would
this - bear in mind Henman is also a Top-10 player - be the biggest win of your career?

JUAN IGNACIO CHELA: It is the most important victory for this tournament, but I think
Kuerten was more difficult.

Q. Would you have expected a Top-10 player like Henman to close out victory when he had
the chance in the final set?

JUAN IGNACIO CHELA: Yes. In the beginning of the set I thought I could lose the match.
It was very difficult on his serve but I was able to pull it out and I am very pleased.

Q. Are you aware that the British tennis players are not particularly comfortable on
clay courts and were you surprised how you were able to dominate Henman in the first set
and a half when you were able to sort of make all the play, were you surprised or were you
expecting that knowing how British players are on clay?

JUAN IGNACIO CHELA: I knew that for Henman clay was not his best surface. I came in
playing very well and I was very confident and I was very much decided to go ahead. That
is the reason why I believe I won easy in the first set and a half after the match became
more complicated for me. 

Q. How much experience have you on other surfaces?

JUAN IGNACIO CHELA: On cement I won a Challenger, but this year I lost in the qualies
and on grass I never played.

Q. Will you play Wimbledon this year?

JUAN IGNACIO CHELA: Yes, I am going to Nottingham and Wimbledon.

Q. Was it a shock that Argentina was defaulted in Davis Cup and are you looking forward
to Davis Cup or are you -- is it too early to think about it?

JUAN IGNACIO CHELA: What happened was very ugly, was very bad. There was no good
conditions to play in Chile. I hope Argentina will be able to play other rounds in the
Davis Cup because I believe the Argentinian team could play at the World Group level.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT