DAVIS CUP FINALS: ARGENTINA v RUSSIA
December 1, 2006
Juan Ignacio Chela
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q.  Did you have any chances to win and come back into the match when the score was 4-3? 
 JUAN IGNACIO CHELA:  I didn't feel that I had any chances in the first two sets.  I lost them quite easily and fast enough.  But I did feel that I had my first chance in the third set. 

 Q.  You were leading 5-0 in your head-to-heads with Nikolay Davydenko.  What made the difference in his game?  Why did he win? 
 JUAN IGNACIO CHELA:  Well, he just showed some incredible tennis, a very high level of tennis today.  Plus we must take into account I never played with Davydenko on this specific surface.  That was also a factor. 
 I began well, but I didn't convert my chances.  Then I felt nervous.  He played well on the big points. 

 Q.  Did you feel in the third set Davydenko was tired?  It looked in the fourth set, both players were tired.  What made the difference? 
 JUAN IGNACIO CHELA:  I can't really tell you who was more tired, Davydenko or myself, because we both were running a lot, especially in the third set. 
 It's quite normal that we felt fatigue.  I couldn't tell you who was more tired towards the end, myself or Nikolay Davydenko. 

 Q.  Being an Argentinian player, how often do you play lots of tournaments indoors?  What do you normally do in December?  How often do you play five-setters? 
 JUAN IGNACIO CHELA:  Usually we play five-setters in Grand Slam tournaments and Davis Cup ties.  But usually in this time of the year, we're taking vacation.  Now we're playing the finals. 
 Actually, we prepared well for this.  We're prepared to play five sets. 

 Q.  What did the captain say to you before and after the match? 
 JUAN IGNACIO CHELA:  He just told me that I should be playing wide enough and make him run.  As to what he said after, just didn't have much time.  He just said that I fought and that I did whatever I could, that I played well.  That's what he said at the end.  We didn't have much time to talk. 

 Q.  There was a lot of noise from the Argentinian crowd, with Maradona.  What do you think of the support of the public and Maradona? 
 JUAN IGNACIO CHELA:  From the very first moment I stepped on the court, I felt the support of the Argentinian public.  That's the way our people support the sportsmen in Argentina.  Local fans are a bit different. 

 Q.  Do you know Maradona? 
 JUAN IGNACIO CHELA:  I know personally Maradona. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT