NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 22, 2002
Scottie Upshall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Just wondering how this day ranks for you, having had some success already in your career, where does this rate? 

SCOTTIE UPSHALL:   I can say that this is up there.  I have, like you said, been through a lot of exciting times in my life.  I can say that this is topping it off.  I'm really happy to be picked by Nashville.  I'm looked forward to going there come September and really showing them what I've got.

Q.  After your season was over, you had quite a season with the world juniors, explain the waiting period between  -- like you can do what you can do on the ice and you showed as much as you could there, and then there's just a waiting period, explain what you were going through and what you were doing just to keep yourself relaxed before the big day?

SCOTTIE UPSHALL:   That's a good question.  I can say for all of us here, you train hard, you come to the fitness testing three weeks ago and you really show that you're prepared to make the NHL.  From there, you have got to go in and meet some general managers and some scouts.  They are investing a lot of time and money into you, and you have really got to know  -- they have got to know you head to toe.  From there, I guess you can do what you did on the ice come last year, and from there you just have to prove to them that you're willing to go out every day and work hard and help that team win a Stanley Cup.

Q.  So now what, you've been drafted 6th overall, which is a great accomplishment, what do you have to do tomorrow?

SCOTTIE UPSHALL:   Go back into my routine of working out.  I have family here, in all the way from Newfoundland, Alberta, and it's an exciting time for myself and for them.  I'm going to stay here for a couple of days, just relax and treasure this moment, because it is special for all of us here.  From there, just go back to Edmonton and start on my program again.

Q.  You had the biggest throng of people there, who are they all?

SCOTTIE UPSHALL:   They are everyone.  I've got both sides of my family, pretty big families.  It's special to be able to share this moment with all of them.  They are just as excited as I am. 

Q.  Nashville has a lot of young forwards, and you would fit great into that group; in your mind are you thinking you're there next year with another year of seasoning? 

SCOTTIE UPSHALL:   Well, like I said, I'm on a program right now that's giving me an opportunity to go into camp and be prepared to make an NHL club.  Now that I'm with Nashville, it gives me just that straight option; that going to Nashville come August, I'm going to be ready to make an NHL team.  Whether or not they believe another year of juniors is the best thing for me, I guess that will be decided with us and with them.  Again, I'm not going to go into an NHL camp knowing that I'm going to go back to juniors.  I'm going to go in prepared and ready to make the Nashville Predators .


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT