SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 16, 2014
Jarrod Lyle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   66 today, good finish, as well. 
JARROD LYLE:   Yeah, mate, it was a good round today.   I got off to a bit of a shaky start, but I rolled some putts in and just kept myself out of trouble, which is a nice thing to do. 

Q.   On this golf course hitting the fairway, you're going to be able to make birdies.   You missed a few fairways.   Is that just a couple of inches here and there? 
JARROD LYLE:   Yeah, a lot of them were just in the first cut of rough, so that's where the stats don't quite make sense at times, but no, look, it was good.   As I said, I didn't get myself in any trouble.   I was always sort of thereabouts, and rolled in a couple of putts that I didn't think I would hole, so it's kind of a nice round.

Q.   As you're trying to put together finishes, do you like a tournament where you know you have to go and score like you would have this week?
JARROD LYLE:   Yes and no.   It's nice to go out there and know you have to make birdies to be somewhat in contention this week, but it's also nice to play golf courses where par is not a bad score.   Every week is different, but I love this golf course.   I think the course is in great condition, and it's going to yield a lot of birdies this week.

Q.   Last week was a success for you that first made cut.   Does the definition of success in this season change from week to week, or are you looking at the same sort of game plan each and every tournament?
JARROD LYLE:   No, look, it's going to be the same thing.   I've got a job to do and I've got to try to make as much money as I can to try and regain my playing privileges out here.   I'm starting the year just like everybody else.   I've probably got less events than other people have got to play, but the goal is exactly the same, go out there and make as many cuts as you can, finish as high as you can on the leaderboard, and great play takes care of a lot of issues. 

Q.   A very strong opening round by you, Jarrod.   How would you rate your performance out there?
JARROD LYLE:   It was solid.   I gave myself a lot of looks at birdies and holed some putts today, which was nice.   There was a couple bogeys out there, as well, but all in all, very pleased with the start of the week.

Q.   The start of the season you should be pleased with.   Everyone knows your story, but is this kind of what you were expecting the first two events? 
JARROD LYLE:   Yeah, it was.   I've been working really, really hard with my coach and my caddie and trying to get a good game plan and all that kind of stuff in place for every tournament we play.   Last week was good, we went out there, that was our first tournament putting into play and ended up shooting some good scores on a reasonably tough golf course, too. 
I'm expecting to hopefully keep going.   It would be great to knock off another three 5‑unders this week and see what happens at the end of the week.   You know, the thing is I'm putting myself in positions that are giving me good looks at birdies and starting to hole some putts.   Things are looking up. 

Q.   Back to your first year on the PGA TOUR, I'm sure you were excited and anticipated every tournament.   Do you have that same kind of attitude, mentality now that you've come back out on the PGA TOUR?
JARROD LYLE:   I do.   I feel like I'm a rookie again.   I feel like I'm coming out and seeing these guys for the first time after watching them on TV, which is what I've done for the last two years, watching them on TV.   The only difference is I'm not a rookie, I know where to go to all those tournaments now, so that's a bonus.   But I'm excited.   I was laying flat on my back two and a half years ago, so it's nice to be out walking and playing golf and making birdies again, which is a nice thing. 

Q.   A lot of yellow out there today.   How did that feel?
JARROD LYLE:   Yeah, it's nice to have the guys from Australia come over and say hello, and we flew our neighbors from Orlando over, as well, to come and experience‑‑ we thought this was going to be my first event back, but it's nice to have so many supporters out here.

Q.   You're getting a lovely reception every hole from people, they know your story and they see you working hard.   Does that give you a little extra energy do you feel?
JARROD LYLE:   Yeah, it's nice because I think where I've come from, it's giving people hope that if they've got an illness like mine or similar to mine or completely different to mine, there's still hope for them to get out and do what they want to do.   I'm sort of‑‑ I've always struggled with that inspirational tag, but I'm hoping that what I'm doing now is helping other people realize that there is still life after illness.

Q.   How much did Monday qualifying last week help? 
JARROD LYLE:   Oh, look, last week was huge.   To get through the Monday qualifier and get four rounds under the belt, my goal was to come out and play‑‑ Monday qualifying those two tournaments and then go back to Australia after that.   My goal was to play out rounds of golf.   So far I knocked off the first one, which was good, I got four rounds up there, and things are heading in the right direction here, as well. 
My goals are very simple goals, but I'm achieving them, which is the best part of it.

Q.   Were the greens a little faster today than you might have expected?   It seemed like watching guys putt today, they're trying to really measure the speed of these greens, and it's a battle. 
JARROD LYLE:   Yeah, there were some sneaky putts out there.   Some of those flags were very well positioned, we'll put it that way, and if you missed it on the wrong spot, then you had a difficult time getting it close to the hole.   I don't think they're any quicker than what they have been all week, but they're definitely firming up.   You can start to feel it under your feet even this morning.   It's a good way to play the golf course. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT