MAYAKOBA GOLF CLASSIC AT RIVIERA MAYA-CANCUN
February 18, 2010
Jarrod Lyle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Nice playing; 6-under par, 65. Got to be pretty pleased with your start.   
 JARROD LYLE: Yeah, look, it's a good way to start the tournament. You know, I had a week off last week. Get over the jetlag and stuff from coming back from Australia.  
 But, you know, the thing is I've been playing good. I played good in Melbourne; finished fourth there. The swing is feeling good and starting to hole some putts, which is a nice feeling.   
  
  Q. And you're back at a place where you had your best PGA Tour finish of your career last year, a T6, so you've got to have some positive vibes?  
 JARROD LYLE: Yeah, I don't know. I guess it's the kind of course that suits me pretty well. It's windy and I've grown up in wind. And I drive it pretty straight, so it's the kind of golf course if you don't drive it straight you're gonna find a lot of trouble.   
 So, you know, I'm happy the way I played today. Hopefully can keep it going for the rest of the week.   
  
  Q. Four birdies in the last four holes or something like that, so a nice finish to the day.   
 JARROD LYLE: Yeah. No, look, I made a couple really good up-and-downs. I buried it in the face on 3 and got it up-and-down, and then got it up-and-down on 5 as well. So those two up-and-downs were pretty crucial.   
 And then, you know, sort of finished 4 birdies in the last five holes or whatever it was. It was pretty cool.  
  
  Q. And you mentioned a T4 at the Monnah Classic. What about your plans for the year? A little bit of the Nationwide Tour, a little bit of PGA Tour?   
 JARROD LYLE: Yeah, I got a medical exemption from last year, so I get five events on the main tour. I don't know what these are gonna come up. Just sort of sit and wait. Could be a Tuesday night of a Nationwide event I get the call saying I'm in, so, you know, I've got to go.   
 So it's just those five events on the main tour, and then the rest on Nationwide.  
  
  Q. Fully healthy right now? Feeling good?  
 JARROD LYLE: Yeah, everything's good. You know, dropped a few pounds over Christmas, which is hard to believe, but I'm feeling good and looking forward to the rest of the year.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT