FRYS.COM OPEN
October 10, 2014
Jarrod Lyle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Good enough to get you into the weekend.   How pleased are you, considering what the last 72 hours has been like for you?  
JARROD LYLE:   Yeah, look, it's incredible.   My first tournament in two‑and‑a‑half years on the PGA TOUR and I come in and make the cut.   That was the goal at the start of the week, and there's a lot of things I want to say about it right now, but none that can be repeated on TV.   But no, I'm just ecstatic that I came through and fought really hard on that Back 9 and I got myself into the weekend.  
   
 Q.   What did you learn about yourself?   You told me earlier in the week you felt your game was ready, but now 36 holes in a PGA TOUR competition.   How close are you?  
JARROD LYLE:   It's close to being really good.   There's still a couple of little shots here and there that aren't quite right, but I'm still doing a lot of good things, like I'm putting really solid.   I gave myself a lot of good weeks this week, so far this week, and holed some good putts, missed a couple of putts, but you know, all in all, mate, I made the cut.   I'm happy.   I'm happy.  
   
 Q.   What did you prove to yourself when you think about what you've been through the past couple of years, to be out here, to make it to the weekend and perhaps have a chance to work your way up the leaderboard?  
JARROD LYLE:   Look, I've proved to myself that I've still got an a little bit of golf game left, and that was the biggest, you know, question that I kept asking myself, am I going to be competitive enough.   And you know, I've played one tournament, I've made one cut, and there's still a long way to go, but I know now that there's still a lot of game there, that I can come in and compete.   And you know, hopefully it's only going to go upward from here.  
   
 Q.   After the round was done, a hug from your caddie, friends, family and also a couple of friends that you didn't expect to be here.   What is it like to see them, and who got here and how are they here?  
JARROD LYLE:   I honestly don't know how they got here.   They jumped on a plane somehow.   I don't know whether they paid for tickets or not, but I went back to (inaudible) on Tuesday night and I was having a chat with a couple of other friends that I knew were coming over and then these two clowns popped in the bedroom and scared the living daylights out of me, but I couldn't ask for a better support group to come over and help me get through this first tournament, because it is pretty emotional for me right now to know that I've got another tee time tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   How do you balance those emotions of what you've been through, but realizing this is your golf, this is your profession, that golf has to be No. 1?  
JARROD LYLE:   That what balances it, mate.   Look, I've just gotta go out there tomorrow and go right back to work.   This is what I've gotta do.   I've gotta go out and make as many birdies as I can on the weekend and try and improve my position on the leaderboard, and it's nice to be able to have that opportunity again to do that.  
   
 Q.   What are the emotions, tears of joy?   Tears of excitement.   You've been through a lot.   Do you realize you've accomplished something you've done.   You told me earlier in the week that you never knew if this was ever going to happen again?  
JARROD LYLE:   Yeah.   Look, obviously they're tears of joy.   I keep looking back to where I was two and a half years ago, I keep looking back to where I was two years ago, and I've come an awful long way, and to be able to sit here and say that I'm playing golf again on the weekend of a PGA TOUR, I'm going to make a check, I'm going to do all these things that I never thought was going to happen.   It's a dream come true and it's nice to be able to do it the first tournament back.  
   
 Q.   Very good.   You're a great inspiration.   Thanks for your time as always, and keep it going on the weekend.   
JARROD LYLE:   Thanks, mate.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT