FRYS.COM OPEN
October 9, 2014
Jarrod Lyle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Nicely done out there, of course started early this week with the Monday qualifier.   How did you feel getting back in the mix? 
JARROD LYLE:   Oh, look, it was good.   Obviously coming up here and not having a confirmed start, it was nice to go to Monday and get myself into a tournament that I probably wasn't going to get into.   It's been a good week so far.   It was a good, solid round today, and looking to improve on today's round coming back tomorrow.

Q.   You had those events on the Web.com TOUR.   How much did that help you get into sort of the flow of things again?
JARROD LYLE:   Oh, look, it helped a lot.   It was crucial for me to come back and play some on the Web.com, just to get a bit of a gauge on what needed work, what was going well and all that.   It was nice to be able to have that opportunity, use those tournaments to see how everything was going, and I played well in one and played average in three of them.   I sort of went away and had about a month before we had to come over to this side of the country and had a month to work on things that needed working on.

Q.   How was the golf course out there this morning?
JARROD LYLE:   Yeah, it was good.   It's a great golf course.   It's nice to be able to play an old‑school golf course that you don't need driver on every hole.   It's sort of more of a plotter's golf course, this one.   If you can keep it in the fairway, you're going to give yourself a lot of chances.

Q.   You mentioned the trip across country.   When you came back, you decided you and your family would have the motor coach.   How was the trip out and how has it been so far? 
JARROD LYLE:   Oh, it's been great.   We've had an absolute ball in the bus.   It's nice to be able to have everything you need either in the bus or underneath the bus.   There's no chance of losing luggage or missing flights or anything like that, it's just if the bus breaks down, that's a bit of an issue, as well.   We've been going really well with it and glad we've taken the plunge to become gray nomads I guess you could call us. 

Q.   Recap the round as a whole for us. 
JARROD LYLE:   Look, it was good.   I made a couple birdies, three birdies.   I was 2‑under standing on 17 and then doubled 17, so that was‑‑ I hit it left, which you just cannot do on that hole, and then ended up making double.   It was obviously a little disappointing to finish that way, but even par, I haven't shot myself in the foot, so it's a good start to the week. 

Q.   Talk about working in Vegas.   Are you seeing someone over there instructor‑wise?
JARROD LYLE:   No, I just flew my coach over from Australia.

Q.   How many days did you guys spend there?
JARROD LYLE:   He was there for five days.

Q.   What's his name?
JARROD LYLE:   Sandy Jamison. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT