WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 2, 2012
Jarrod Lyle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  February 2, 2012  
               
  
  Quotes From:  
  
JARROD LYLE  
  
 Q.   I guess it's a hectic start to the week when you come to Phoenix and you're not in the tournament and now you're one off the lead.   How has it gone to this point?  
JARROD LYLE:   You're right, it has been pretty hectic.   I came here on Tuesday to play nine holes, and I was almost thinking I had no chance of getting in because I was second alternate, but luckily a couple of guys got sick, and I've taken advantage of it.  
   
 Q.   A ton of birdies in a row out there.   One of them comes at 16.   You couldn't make a 1; 2 is not bad.   What was it like to go back to that hole?  
JARROD LYLE:   It's pretty good.   I did think about that last year where I made a 1, and I also made two 4s.   It's just one of those holes that you just pray it gets in the middle of the green, and if you make a putt, you make a putt.   I was lucky to sneak a little 2 in there.  
   
 Q.   Can we get a Super Bowl prediction from a guy with an Australian accent?  
JARROD LYLE:   Can you tell me who's playing?   
   
 Q.   Yes, it's the Giants and the Patriots.   What do you think?  
JARROD LYLE:   Patriots.  
   
 Q.   Just because what, they probably have guns?  
JARROD LYLE:   It's just a guess.   I've got no idea.   I've never followed it, so it's purely a guess.   
   
 Q.   Just comments on the round for me if you can.   
JARROD LYLE:   It was good.   It was a nice solid start.   I made three very solid pars in the first three holes and then I hit probably one of the best hybrids I've hit ever to about eight feet on 13 and made eagle, then made another birdie on 15 and birdied 16 and birdied 17, so it was kind of‑‑ for that little stretch, it was really good.   And then the front nine just‑‑ I didn't hit enough greens, sort of struggled and made one bogey and then holed a nice little putt on the last to get the round back to where it should have been.  
   
 Q.   What was your yardage on 13?  
JARROD LYLE:   234 meters, so like 255 or something like that.   
   
 Q.   What did you hit in there?  
JARROD LYLE:   Hybrid.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT