TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 1, 2018
Paul Dunne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Bogey-free round of 7-under 64.  What did you do particularly well today?
PAUL DUNNE: My iron play was pretty good.  I think the biggest thing I did out there was on the three or four difficult tee shots, I hit really good tee shots, and apart from that, the ones I leaked a little bit were on holes you could get away with it and you could make birdie still from the rough.  That's what I was pleased with, the holes I needed to hit a good shot on, I stepped up and hit a really straight one.
Yeah, I left a few putts short out there but I think we can always say that.  A few short in the middle but I'll take it.
Q. Started the season brightly with a couple Top-10s but not a lot since April.  What's the story with the game?
PAUL DUNNE: Yeah, to be honest, I just haven't been hitting the ball very well.  My putting is okay.  Kind of drove it the same.  Lost my iron play a little bit.  Stopped giving myself chances, medium to short irons.  Just scrambled for par for three months really.  Nice to see a bit of form, post a good score and get a bogey-free round on the card.
Q. Do you have any goals for the end of the year?
PAUL DUNNE: Not really, no.  I'd like to give myself a chance to win one or a couple of them or something like that.  This is a course I saw for the first time last year and I like it.  Sets up nicely for me.  Had a couple weeks' practise before, and was hoping to give it a hundred and hopefully I can build on this.
Q. I understand that you went to The Ryder Cup and your brother was part of the team, the backroom staff.  Tell us about that?
PAUL DUNNE: Yeah, David was like the nutritionist for the team.  He was there and he's been with the tour since start of the year building up to it.  I went over on the Saturday.  Keith Pelley invited me over and a few other players.  It was nice to go around.  I walked around with Tommy and Francesco's match against Tiger.  That was cool.  Spent a bit of time with my brother and then came home.
I think I wasn't in the best of form playing, so I was happy enough not to be playing looking at the golf course, but it was nice to see.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT