BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
October 1, 2017
Paul Dunne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 9-under, chip-in at the last.  What a day and what a win.
PAUL DUNNE: Yeah, I feel like I've played pretty consistently all year, and I've given myself a few chances on Sunday to make a move and contend and haven't really been able to put the foot down.  That was my focus today, to get off to a hot start, and once I got my nose in front to just keep pushing, because you never know what happens.  Saw that in Morocco where Edoardo finished birdie, eagle to tie me.
My big focus was to keep pressing and make as many birdies as I can and play aggressive.
Q. Key points out there this afternoon?
PAUL DUNNE: I had a great break on 11.  I pulled my wedge shot and it should have been long.  Hit the sprinkler, kicked back and I made birdie.  Can't script that.
I made a great save on 12, and then I played pretty steady coming in.  I gave myself chances, missed a couple.  Made a great putt on 17 to kind of seal it, and obviously it was a nice highlight at the last.
Q. Rory obviously in the rearview mirror.  How much did he get into your mind?
PAUL DUNNE: Yeah, definitely, because I think when I was looking at the leaderboard, the two people closest would have been Rory and Robert Karlsson because he had more holes to play than the other guys on 14 and 15-under.  But I knew I could keep an eye on him because I was playing with him, and then Rory, I kind of assumed he would birdie 16 or 17.  He birdied both.
But then I saw he didn't make two on the last, which meant that if I made three on 17, it was pretty much a done deal.  That's why I took driver and kind of just took it on, tried to beat the hole in one shot.  Any time you can go up against Rory McIlroy and beat him, it's pretty much a dream.
Q. Just sum it up, 2017, British Masters Champion?
PAUL DUNNE: Yeah, it hasn't sunk in yet.  I can't wait to go home and see my girlfriend and see my family and celebrate with them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT