ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 13, 2017
Paul Dunne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How good was to get off to a birdie, birdie start?
PAUL DUNNE: Yeah, the first couple of holes were straight downwind, slightly off the left so if you took driver, usually it all killed the holes in one shot.  So I had a wedge into both holes.  Managed to make two nice putts and got off on a nice start.  And then when you have a couple holes back into the wind and you're scrambling for pars, it makes it feel a little bit easier.
Q. What's the biggest challenge around the course?
PAUL DUNNE: I think around the greens.  The greens are kind of funky.  There's lot of little slopes, kind of subtle run-offs and a lot of double-breaking ten-foot putts.  When the wind gets up, it makes those really good reads and getting your approach shots right very difficult with greens like that.
I'd say that it's not as demanding off the tee as other links courses but then you have to have your wits about you with your second shots.
Q. Obviously disappointing to have fallen away on Sunday in Ireland last week.  How important was it for to you bounce back with a good opening round here?
PAUL DUNNE: Yeah it's always important to play well in the first round.  It's obviously a big tournament for us.  So try to do as well as I can but it's a long season.  You're going to go through highs and lows.  You're going to feel great about your game some weeks and you're going to feel terrible other weeks.
Just a matter of kind of putting the work in and hoping it pays off.
Q. Is there an Open Championship place in the back of your mind as well?
PAUL DUNNE: Not really.  I've been asked that a lot.  There's only three spots, so you're going to have to do really well.  You're going to have to give yourself a chance to win the tournament to be able to get one of the Open spots, and if you have a chance to win, the last thing you're thinking about is The Open.  You're going to try and win.
It would be a bonus if you did well, but only Thursday and lots of golf left.  I'll stick to my guns and try to play as well as he can.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT