ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 20, 2017
Paul Dunne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts on being in contention?
PAUL DUNNE: Yeah, it's good.  My game feels in good shape.  I'm hitting a lot of good iron shots and giving myself a lot of chances.  Greens being as good as they are, you are bound to take a few.  It's exciting, yeah.  Looking forward to a good weekend.  This is kind of what we were thinking about over Christmas.  Nice to get off to a good start but that's all it is.  We're only halfway there.  Hopefully keep doing what we're doing and post some of the same numbers again.
Q. Is this some of the best golf you've played since joining The European Tour?
PAUL DUNNE: Yeah, I definitely feel I'm a better player now than this time last year.  I'm better off the tee and I'm a better iron player.  If I get the ball in the fairway around this course, the way I'm hitting my irons, I'll give myself a lot of chances and bound to take a few, like I said, with the greens being so good.  If I can keep the ball in play like I have the last couple days, just give myself an iron in my hands in the short grass, I'm pretty confident.
Q. Lovely around turn.
PAUL DUNNE: Yeah, I made a nice eagle on 18.  I had like 243 in the fairway bunker and I hit a 3-iron to about six feet and made a nice eagle.  Then I hit a wedge to four feet on the first and 2-putt birdie on the second.  It was a nice stretch.
I felt like it had been coming as the round went on.  It was the same yesterday.  I was 4-under through 12 yesterday and had loads of chances and didn't take any of them.  Yeah, my game feels in good shape.  Just going to do a little bit of practice and get ready for tomorrow.
Q. Do you feel your game is better when you're fresh after a break?
PAUL DUNNE: Seems to be.  My first event last year, I thought I did okay.  So it seems to have that trend.  I don't know to be honest with you.  I do feel quite refreshed after the break.  I feel ready to go and I feel like I want to be out here again, and I'm excited to get out and I'm excited to play golf.
I think that's a big thing.  Once you lose that, it's time to take a break again until you get it back, because they can be long weeks if you don't really want to be playing.  I'm happy with my mind-set, happy with my game.  Just keep it rolling for the next two days.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT