DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
May 19, 2016
Paul Dunne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What's your feeling on a round of 70?  
PAUL DUNNE: Yeah, pleased with it.  I think we got the best of the day.  When I woke up this morning, obviously the guys teeing off early had a lot of rain to deal with and the wind did get up in the afternoon, but it's easier to play in wind than when you're soaking wet.  I definitely got the best out of the draw today.   
But I played well, for the whole day, really.  I played the first poorly and managed to get a nice par, and from there, I just played really well.  Made two sloppy bogeys on 16 and 17 really from nowhere and nice to get a birdie on the last.   
 Q.  Must be nice after there was the feeling that things got a way and then to get it all back on track again.  
PAUL DUNNE: On 16, the putt couldn't have been more than 18 inches.  It was a tap-in.  The only reason I didn't tap it in was it was sitting down just a little bit in a depression, and when I hit it, it jumped straight left, just unfortunate.  I don't feel like I did anything wrong there to make bogey.  Played the hole quite well.   
But 17, I hit a bad tee shot and was out of position from the start and was fighting it the whole way.   
18 was nice, hit a great drive and 3-iron in there and an easy two-putt birdie in the end.  Happy with the finish.   
 Q.  After that long-distance travel, is it all the sweeter to be home?  
PAUL DUNNE: Yeah, it's nice to go back and sleep in my own bed.  It's great, I have a lot of support here, people from my hometown and friends and family coming out to watch me.  Great to have them cheering you on, as well, and hopefully I can give them something to cheer about as the weekend goes on.   
 Q.  Does it give you a lift?  
PAUL DUNNE: Yeah, definitely, you can feel them.  You can feel them willing the ball into the hole for you.  Especially on a day like today, when things start to get away from you, it's nice to have that support and see familiar faces and know that I guess there's people rooting for you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT