ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 3, 2015
Paul Dunne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Bit of a cliché, but that was a bit of a roller coaster ride for you today?
PAUL DUNNE: I played so bad on the front nine.  I was happy enough to be level through seven, the way I was playing.  Just really wasn't feeling -- it's been the same the last two days.  I've taken ages to get into a round, started poorly on every course.
Bogey on 8 and 9 kind of got me off on the wrong foot and then I hit some good shots from 11 on.  I birdied 11, 12, 13, 14, which is the easy stretch of the course, so I took advantage of that.
Then good tee shot down 15 and just the second shot, when it hit the front of the green, I thought it would take off down to the flag and it spun up and 3-putted there.
Then kind of got a bad lie in the bunker on 16.  Had another bogey there but I was happy enough to save par on the last two, two tough holes.  And 72 is not a great score but the way I played, I'll take it.
Q. Conditions, a bit of a light breeze but probably no more than that, it was a fairly fair wind out there.
PAUL DUNNE: Not much wind.  It's kind of a chilly breeze, so it's effecting the ball.  If you're hitting into it or across it, it's spinning the ball quite a lot.  So it's definitely affecting it but it's not -- I mean, there's no rough out here.  If you miss the bunkers, get the ball in play off the tee and then the greens are perfect.
So there's definitely a score to be had out there.  You've just got to play well.  I didn't play well today.  Hopefully I can iron things out this afternoon and play better tomorrow.
Q. Back to St. Andrews, happy hunting grounds tomorrow.  Bodes well for a good last day?
PAUL DUNNE: Yeah, hopefully.  I've got some things to take care of first.  Need to do some work on the driving range but hopefully I can get back to swinging it like I have the last few days and put a good score together tomorrow and maybe be up close to the lead, you never know.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT