ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 1, 2015
Paul Dunne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Hole-in-one, talk us through it, if you would?
PAUL DUNNE: Yeah, I kind of needed it.  I got off to a bit of a ropey start.  I was hitting a lot of poor full shots.  My putter was kind of saving me in it, to be level par playing 15, which was my sixth and it was nice to get a hole-in-one.  It was exactly as I pictured it.
I tried to start it at the left edge of green and let the wind drift it and I thought I hit it close and when I saw it drop, it was great.  Nice little bonus there.  I played some good golf from then on in.  Happy with my score.
Q. Nice celebrations, you've got plenty of other guys with you on the tee.
PAUL DUNNE: Yeah, it was good.  I got a few high fives, the usual -- well, I think the usual kind of stuff when someone makes a hole-in-one.  I was just happy to putt a 1 do you know on my card more than anything else.
Q. Easy game this, as a pro, isn't it?
PAUL DUNNE: Well, it is on days like today.  Such a beautiful course, it's in great condition.  The weather is fantastic.  There are scores out there to be had.  You just have to make putts and get dialed in with your distance control and your irons.  I played a lot better on the front nine than I did on the back nine, which was my front nine, a lot better striking of my irons, and yeah, but pleased with the day's work.
Q. You been particularly looking forward to this event, knowing that it's links courses, as well, three of the best in Britain?
PAUL DUNNE: Yeah, I've been looking forward to getting started as a pro for a while.  No better place to do it than on a links-style course like this.  All three courses are in fantastic condition.  They are all very different but all of them put up different types of tests.
So it's a long week.  There's other golf courses to be played but for now I'm just going to be pleased with my round and look forward to the rest of the week.
Q. Presumably looking forward to getting back to St. Andrews, as well, with all the recent memories?
PAUL DUNNE: Yeah, definitely.  Just looking at the course, it looks a lot different.  Not all the massive stands from The Open but brings back playing it, recent memories, and hopefully I can make some more like I did the first three days in The Open.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT