DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
July 8, 2018
Paul Dunne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts on a 71 and another Irish Open under your belt, three of them?
PAUL DUNNE: The overall feeling would be slight frustration for the week.  I felt like I played better than 50th place or whatever level par is.  Just one of those things.  I couldn't get anything going for the week.  Couldn't get it in the fairway enough to have consistent chances to attack flags and today was a little bit like yesterday.  I got it under par early, had a few chances to get a bit more under, didn't take them, get a couple of bad breaks and all of a sudden you're back to square one.
It's been a great week with the crowds, environment, having family up, all that stuff.  Course has been amazing.  Just need to get a few more breaks and hit a few more fairways and I think I'll be fine.
Q. Do you find The Irish Open, that there is something different about the week?
PAUL DUNNE: Yeah, there is.  I can't remember the last time I had a thousand people watching me when I play was in 50th.  Normally there's three and those three are with you.  You get support and that's a positive.  That's not something to dwell on pressure, that kind of thing.  It's three Irish Opens, three made cuts and three very average finishes.  Just for now going to focus on next week, really.
Q. What do you feel like going into the next two events?
PAUL DUNNE: I feel good.  My iron play feels great, putting is good.  Seeing my lines well.  Just need to get comfortable hitting driver on links golf courses in wind.  I feel like if I went out and played a parkland today, I would drive it great because my swing doesn't feel so far away.
Just that bit of tension when you're hitting in crosswinds and down narrow chutes, and you know there's a bunker five yards left, you're in big trouble.  It's just kind of getting a little bit more comfort in that and shaping it against winds and I'll be fine.  That's really the only element that needs work.
Q. Nice to play with somebody you know?
PAUL DUNNE: Yeah, nice to play with Graeme and Shane and Simon behind us.  Nice Irish contingent in the middle of the morning, four hours too early.  Nice day out.  Nice that the rain held off for the most part.  We both had our chances to shoot better than we did but have to settle for what we have now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT