THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2015
Paul Dunne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MIKE WOODCOCK: Everyone, we will make a start.  Very pleased to welcome Ireland's Paul Dunne to the interview room.  Paul, a tremendous 6-under par 66 today, that puts you tied for the lead as it stands going into the final round of The Open Championship.  Can you tell us how that feels, please.PAUL DUNNE: Yeah, it feels great.  I felt like I had so much support from the crowd today.  I kind of felt like I was at home.  Every shot I hit was getting cheered from start to finish, so big thanks to the crowd out there.  They kept me lifted the whole way through.  It was great to play with Louis Oosthuizen today.  He's obviously a great role model for me, great player, someone I look up to.  He was a really nice playing partner, so yeah, just really enjoyed it.  It was such a fun day.Q. Louis was in here a short while ago saying your tee shot on 17 left him feeling nervous.  Did you feel any nerves or were you as cool and calm as it appeared today?PAUL DUNNE: There was a few shots I was nervous on.  I was nervous on the 1st just to get the round going, but once I got underway it wasn't too bad.  And then the tee shot on 14 and 17 with the wind off the left with trouble down the right, but apart from those two shots, it really wasn't too bad.  I just kind of picked conservative enough targets that gave me room either side and then just kind of attacked with my irons and tried to give myself chances.  I went out there thinking that if I could play sensible and keep the bogeys off my card, you're going to have so many opportunities for birdie that you're bound to make some.  I was really pleased to keep the bogeys off the card today.Q. Will you go out there tomorrow thinking I want to win The Open Championship, I can win The Open Championship?  What's your approach tomorrow?  Will you let yourself think that way?PAUL DUNNE: I think it'll be the same as the last three days, just look at the weather, see what the weather is going to throw at us and then put a number in my head that I think I need to shoot.  I'm not really going to think about winning or where I'm going to finish until the last few holes.  If my strategy needs to change a little bit.  But yeah, I can't control what other people do.  Everyone could go out and shoot 63 or everyone could shoot 75.  All I can do is control committing to my shots and hopefully leaves me in good stead at the end of the day.Q. What will that number be?PAUL DUNNE: 69 was the number today, but once I got off to a good start on the front nine, I shifted it more towards 66, so I was pleased with that on the back nine.Q. (No microphone.  Question on the impact of Padraig Harrington).PAUL DUNNE: Yeah, he's been probably the most influential person in Irish golf definitely in modern history anyway.  I remember watching him win The Open at Carnoustie in 2007 and 2008 at Birkdale.  I've watched those videos over and over again.  So has everyone in my family, I think.  I've always looked up to Padraig.  He's been such a great ambassador for Irish golf.  Carries himself so well, practises hard.  Yeah, he's always someone that I've looked up to, yeah.Q. Just a little while ago Jordan Spieth said in here that he expected an amateur to win a major within the next decade.  What about tomorrow?PAUL DUNNE: I don't see why not.  I mean, I'm well capable of shooting the scores that I need to win if everyone else doesn't play their best.  Whether it happens or not, I can't really control.  I can just go out and try to play my game and see where it leaves me at the end of the day.  Hopefully I play great again and post a good number.Q. I suspect I know the answer to this, but most 22 year olds don't have any trouble sleeping.  How do you feel about your sleep pattern tonight?PAUL DUNNE: I don't know.  I'll have to tell you when I'm trying to get to bed later.  But I haven't had any problem the last few days.  Obviously yesterday was a bit of a nothing day for me.  I didn't really play any golf.  I just came up here at about 5:00 and did some practice.  It was good to get back out there today.  I'm sure when I sit down, I'll be tired, the adrenaline goes away, so I don't think I'll have much problem getting to sleep.  I never usually do.Q. If you're honest, can you really believe what's happening?  Really honest.PAUL DUNNE: Yeah, it's surreal I'm leading The Open, but I can easily believe that I shot the three scores that I shot.  If we were playing an amateur event here, I wouldn't be too surprised by the scores I shot.  It's just lucky that it happens to be in the biggest event in the world.  (Laughter.)  Hopefully I can do it again tomorrow, but whether I do or not, you know, I'll survive either way.Q. Did you say at the beginning it's a little surreal?PAUL DUNNE: Yeah, it's something I'll look back on and think is cool, but mid-tournament I'm just going to keep trying to focus on playing my shots and getting ready for tomorrow and just playing the best that I can, really.MIKE WOODCOCK: Paul, tremendously well played.  Thank you very much.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT