TROPHEE HASSAN II
April 18, 2018
Paul Dunne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You really enjoyed success last year; how much did you learn from the finish last year?
PAUL DUNNE: I think it was the first time I was really in that position with, you know, three or four holes to play.  I think I just learned about how best I can handle it.  Then, you know, I did a good job of that come the British Masters, but it was a great experience.
It was great to know that on a tough course like this, I could play well and give myself a lead.  Obviously it's much different this year with the greens but it's still the same layout from tee-to-green visually, so hopefully I can have another good week.
Q. What does it feel like when you come to a venue like this, the facilities and the way you guys are looked after, just adds to the week, doesn't it?
PAUL DUNNE: Yeah, I think the weather is amazing.  I came here two years ago and the weather was really poor, but this year and last year is beautiful sunshine.  It's nice weather.  The facilities are first class.
Yeah, it's a great week.  And then the golf course, I think it's going to keep everybody on edge, you know what I mean, because the greens are new, slopey and they are quite firm and it's one of the tougher courses we play on Tour off the tee, as well.
So I think it's going to just be demanding all the way around.  I think it will be interesting to see what they do with the pin positions because if they are difficult, like if they try to put the pins in some of the positions that he can, I think if you're under par, you'll probably win.
Q. Looking at the scorecard, it's 7,500 yards this week.
PAUL DUNNE: It was a par 73 this week and they have changed the 10 to a par 4.  So they have made the greens more difficult.  It was only 9-under to be in a playoff last year.  So I mean, that will show you that the scoring will be quite moderate but it's just a week you have to keep your head on your shoulders, grind as well as you can and see where it leaves you, really.
Q. Determined after your runner-up finish in Spain?
PAUL DUNNE: Yeah, I'm not any more determined than normal.  My game has been in good shape for probably five or six weeks now.  I've been playing some good golf every week.  Just going to keep continue what I'm doing and hopefully have another chance to win and see if I can do better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT