MLB WORLD SERIES: DODGERS VS RED SOX
October 27, 2018
Rafael Devers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Red Sox - 9    Dodgers - 6   
 Q.  Devers, you were in a pressure situation, able to come up with a big hit.  Speak to that.  
RAFAEL DEVERS: I was able to take what he was giving me, make my adjustments, pitch by pitch, and was able to come through in that situation.   
 Q.  The defensive play, second-to-last out of the game, do you ever remember making as big of a play on as big of a stage as that one right there?  And do you realize how important it was to the team at that moment?  
RAFAEL DEVERS: I think the last time was in Little League, probably, making a play like that.  I just came in with the mentality of trying to help the team in any way that I can.  And I was given that opportunity tonight to do that.   
 Q.  Was it just instinct?  
RAFAEL DEVERS: It's a game of instincts.  I just wanted to make sure I threw the ball hard, because Machado is a pretty good runner.  So I just wanted to make sure I got it.   
 Q.  How come the bench players have been so productive during this series?  And what does Alex tell you guys to keep you ready and prepared to go at any time?  
RAFAEL DEVERS: Alex tells us to be ready from the first inning on because you don't know what situations are going to arise, and that's just what we do is, we try to stay ready to help in any way that we can.   
 Q.  When it's 4-0 in the 7th and Rich Hill is throwing as well as he did, is there ever any concern on the bench, especially for the guys who aren't playing, that you are going to get a chance to pinch-hit and make something happen in the game?  
RAFAEL DEVERS: I was just ready for my moment to come, whenever that may be.  Being in the National League you've got to be ready from the first inning with obviously the pitchers hitting.  So I just wanted to be ready for whatever the situation was.   
 Q.  Where were you in the dugout when Chris Sale went on his diatribe, started yelling and screaming?  Did you understand what he said or did someone translate it for you?  
RAFAEL DEVERS: I was definitely there.  At that moment that was huge because it motivated us.  It scared me a little bit because I had never seen him yell like that and the words that he was saying, I had never heard that come from him before.  But, you know, we came out sluggish and that moment helped us get motivated for the rest of the game.   
 Q.  So you understood what he said?  
RAFAEL DEVERS: Yeah, but I can't say it here (laughter).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT