NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 12, 2016
James Harden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (Inaudible)?
JAMES HARDEN: I've been knowing [Isaiah Thomas] since high school, early in his high school.  He's just so crafty.  He's crafty.  He finds a way.  No matter what it is, he finds a way to get his shot off and get where he wants to go.  Not a lot of guys can do that, doesn't matter how tall or how short you are, and he has that ability.  He can get to his spots and just be able to shoot over anybody.
Q. Obviously his first time being an All-Star.  When is the first time you watched him that you thought he had that kind of potential?
JAMES HARDEN: As I said, I noticed in high school.  He's always been more than capable.  It's always about opportunity.  Opportunity is what it's about in this league.
So last year in Phoenix, coming off the bench he still scored about 18 points a game.  He had that ability.  Now in Boston they kind of gave him the key to go out there and play his game and be aggressive.  So there it is.
Q. The Warriors have the best record at the All-Star break in the history of the NBA.  You've obviously had a lot of great battles with them here.  What impresses you the most about what they're doing?
JAMES HARDEN: That they bring it every night.  They bring it every night.  They're the defending champs, and they expect guys to come at them every single night and play their best.  So they're always ready for it, and it's impressive.
Q. Do you think they can reach 72 wins?
JAMES HARDEN: I mean, I don't know.
Q. First international All-Star Game.  Obviously, we're in Toronto.  Can you name five Canadians, doesn't matter, five Canadians?
JAMES HARDEN: Wiggins, Bennett, Cory Joseph, Drake, and help me out, Nash.
Q. Kobe Bryant is making his last All-Star Weekend.  Can you talk about his impact on you as a player?
JAMES HARDEN: He's been my idol growing up, my basketball idol.  Like I said, just watching him play meant everything to me.  So this is his last year and he's going to retire and there's going to be no more Kobe Bryant playing basketball, it's kind of sad.  It's kind of sad about that, but at some point he had to go.
Q. Do you have like a favorite moment playing with him or against him with Team USA?
JAMES HARDEN: Just being around Kobe, he's a different guy.  He's a competitor.  Score 81 points is very, very impressive.  Just his winning, just everything he's about.
Q. Has he taught you anything ever that you've taken to heart, a lesson or advice that you recall?
JAMES HARDEN: Yeah, last year he gave me advice.  I think he was injured for most of the year, so he saw what I was doing and he told me to continue going, continue to stay focused on what you want and go out there and do it.
Q. What makes DeMar [DeRozan] an All-Star in your mind?  Can you describe the development of DeMar's game?
JAMES HARDEN: Yeah, their backcourt is really good.  I've known DeMar since middle school.  We're from the same area.  He continues to work hard.  He works hard and he works on his game.  I think that right there is a sign of improvement.  He always wants to get better.
Then Kyle [Lowry], obviously, he goes to get it.  He's aggressive.  So those two complement each other, and that's what makes them very good as a team.
Q. In the Three-Point Contest, how do you determine where you're going to put your money ball at?
JAMES HARDEN: Oh, I'm going to -- I think I'm going to do it last.
Q. Do you worry about running against the clock and rushing the rack?
JAMES HARDEN: I don't.  I'm not worried about finishing.
Q. You mentioned how this break will be good for the team.  Obviously, last year you made it to the Conference Finals.  Not a vastly different squad.  What is the key for the second half of the season to get back to that successful style of play?
JAMES HARDEN: Well, hopefully we can get D-Mo [Donatas Motiejunas] back.  He was a big key to our success last year.  So you get D-Mo back healthy and with the right mindset for the entire team, and we've got a chance.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT