NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND TWO: CLIPPERS v ROCKETS
May 8, 2015
James Harden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   James, they really kept you off the line tonight, the Clippers did.   How did that change things for you guys, you not being able to get to the line quite as often as you did? 
JAMES HARDEN:   I think I could have been a little bit more aggressive.   Just too passive.   Just too passive. 

Q.   James, what was the performance of Austin Rivers, definitely tonight he had an explosive game, how did that throw you guys out of sync as far as defensive in the scheme against him?
JAMES HARDEN:   He was aggressive.   He was aggressive.   He made shots, some three‑pointers early, the shot gave him confidence.   I don't think he was the problem in the game.   I think early in the game from the beginning they were getting a lot of easy buckets which gave them a lot of confidence throughout the game. 

Q.   When you talk about you weren't aggressive, you were passive, is that because of what they were doing to you, you were thinking too much?
JAMES HARDEN:   A little bit of both.   They're a really good defensive team, especially when they get set.   We've just got to do a better job of moving the basketball and just being aggressive. 

Q.   In this series Coach McHale talked about you guys might have played one good defensive half in Game 2.   Talk about how you guys have performed. 
JAMES HARDEN:   We gave up 120‑some points.   That's not really good defense.   In order for us to have a chance in the series we've got to play some really good defense, and we're very capable of doing that. 

Q.   You were able to help your team a lot this year getting victories, especially when Dwight was out.   What can you lean on and apply it to here?
JAMES HARDEN:   Just the principles that have gotten us this far, which, one of them is our defense which we've relied on.   We got stops, we got out in transition and created opportunities for each other. 
If we're not getting those stops, then it puts the pressure on our offense too much, and that was the case tonight.

Q.   Your overall feeling about being down 2‑1 in the series and with this last game being a blowout?
JAMES HARDEN:   It was a blowout, but it's still one game.   It doesn't make it two or three games.   We have another great opportunity on Sunday to tie this thing up, and as I said, we've been through adversity all year, and here's another case for us.

Q.   How did Chris Paul change his offense for the Clippers between games 1 and 2?
JAMES HARDEN:   I mean, he handles the ball.   He makes the play, and he knocked down some big threes tonight.   But like I said, we've just got to be better.   We've got to be more focused and locked in on our schemes and our match‑ups, and we'll be all right.

Q.   Individually you seemed to have gotten off to a slow start in each one of the games.   Have you been waiting for it to come to you and is that something that needs to change?
JAMES HARDEN:   Yeah, I've been trying to be a passer, trying to get the assist or whatnot, just the way their defense is. 
But at the same time I've got to still be aggressive and be in attack mode.   You saw a little bit of that in Game 2, especially in that second half, so we'll watch some film, we'll get better, and we're ready to go Game 4. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT