NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE SEMIFINALS: ROCKETS vs WARRIORS
April 28, 2019
James Harden
Chris Paul
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Warriors - 104, Rockets - 100   
 Q.  Mike said that the refs admitted to him at the half that they missed four of those closeouts.  From your perspective, do you feel like part of the Warriors' game plan against you is to test the limits on that until those are?  What can you do about that?  
JAMES HARDEN: What can I do about it?  I was told the same thing at half.  And it's probably a couple more in the second half.  I mean, I just want a fair chance, man.  Call the game how it's supposed to be called and that's it.  And I'll live with the results.   
But especially we all know what happened a few years back with Kawhi.  That can change the entire series.  Just call the game the way it's supposed to be called and we'll live with the results.  It's plain and simple.   
 Q.  Mr. Paul, you all came out and played very well and only lost about four points.  What do you take away from this game to take into game number two?  
CHRIS PAUL: We lost.  In playoffs whether it's one or 30 it's a loss.  But I think first thing we do is we look at ourselves.  We've got to defend better.  Me, I missed three free throws.  And techs, I get that tech, the first one.   
The last one, too, those are points that that team, the way they score the ball, giving up techs, I mean, it's an emotional game.  To shoot a three and one, get a tech, I mean, it's tough.  But I gotta be smarter because that didn't do nothing but hurt our team.   
 Q.  Chris, I know you guys have been here a couple days early, all rested up.  But even on the Warriors side they logged a lot of minutes on starters.  What this series going to be, for you guys to grind it out and do your jobs and just take as many minutes that you can for your team?  
CHRIS PAUL: What's the question?   
 Q.  Is this what the series is going to look like, your starters, the Houston starters playing a lot of minutes?  
CHRIS PAUL: It's the playoffs.  I mean, guys are going to play.  It's hard to come by wins in the playoffs, whether you're tired, not tired.  Everybody's tired, you know what I mean?  It's April, almost May.   
So guys, you know, pros, they're going to get their rest, do whatever they have to do and whenever it's time to play, everybody going to hoop.   
 Q.  How much did Draymond's energy on both ends -- he crashed the boards and came up with some key offensive rebounds -- did he really kind of set a tone for them?  
CHRIS PAUL: Yeah.   
 Q.  Did Draymond set a tone for them with his energy on both ends in creating second chances?  
JAMES HARDEN: I don't know.   
 Q.  Chris, what happened with the official there at the end?  Looked like there might have been some contact.  Not sure if that was inadvertent?  
CHRIS PAUL: I don't know yet.  Nobody told me.  He just called a tech.  And I knew that was my second.   
 Q.  Was there contact?  
CHRIS PAUL: I ain't looked at it yet.  You did.  You tell me.   
 Q.  I wasn't the one involved in the contact.  
CHRIS PAUL: You asked me if there was.   
 Q.  It appeared there was contact.  
CHRIS PAUL: If there was I haven't seen it yet.   
 Q.  Offensively, especially in the first half just a ton of 3s.  Were they good looks, normal offensive execution or are there things that need to be changed or improved heading into Game 2?  
CHRIS PAUL: A lot of things need to be improved.  We can do better on our switches, rebounding, too.  We definitely have to rebound better.  And we gotta execute and understand that they got shooters, so we gotta try to force the other guys to shoot more shots.   
 Q.  Both of you, obviously dissatisfied with the loss but were you satisfied with 104 points for them and kind of the pace sort of the physicality of the game?  Is that what you want this series to look like?  
CHRIS PAUL: I just want to win.  I don't care how I look, to tell you the truth, honestly.  I mean, they got 104 and we ain't got 105, so that's the problem.  That's the name of the game is winning.  We have to try to figure it out.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT