SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 26, 2013
Bob Gaus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What's your big takeaway?   Not to repeat a lot of what you already said. 
BOB GAUS:   No, you know, I can take away the fact that I can compete out here probably in some way or another.   I know I can compete with them. 
It's getting the experience.   I felt more and more comfortable every day that I was out here.   So by today I felt pretty good. 
I missed a couple short putts, I got a little nervous, but who doesn't.   But I have a lot more confidence, especially the next couple tournaments I play in.   So that will be big, huge.

Q.   The Senior PGA seems to be a place where the club pro really has a shot and really made a statement this time. 
BOB GAUS:   Wells, for the seniors, yes.   I've qualified for a few on the regular PGA and I get my brains beat in out there. 
These guys, I can hit it with these guys.   The other guys, I can't, so.

Q.   Do you feel like that the club pro can really make a statement in a tournament like this?
BOB GAUS:   Yeah, look at, is it Mark Mielke is doing well?   Sonny Skinner is doing well.   So there's four or five of us made the cut and a couple of them are up there on the leaderboard.   So I think in this division we have a better chance, yes. 

Q.   What is the, from the instructional point of view, from that side of your career, what's kind of the teachable moment out of this that you'll take away and pass on to others?
BOB GAUS:   Patience, really taking your time out there and staying in the moment, not letting everything distract you.   A lot of distractions when you're out here.   This has been a lot of distractions this week for he me, just having to deal out about a hundred tickets for friends.   I'm picking people up before I come up and play golf.   I'm a taxi service.   I mean ‑‑ getting up at   4:30 the last three days has been brutal. 
So you talk about a test in patience, that's, that would be the main thing I would take away from this that I can pass on to my students.   But they got to learn that their own way, a lot of them. 
So you got to go through the moment, you got to be in there, you got to experience it.   The more you experience it, the easier it gets.

Q.   And then lastly, what's the next for you this summer?
BOB GAUS:   U.S. Open qualifying, all our section stuff, but U.S. Senior Open qualifying is coming up the end of June.   Then I got the National Club Pro for all the regular guys under 50.   That's in Sun River, Oregon at the end of June.   And then we'll see from there.   There will be some other stuff down the road.   But those are my next two big ones.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT