SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 24, 2013
Bob Gaus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BOB GAUS:   Played pretty good.   One birdie today.   I bogeyed the very last hole.   I hit it in the rough.   Barely in the rough.   I caught a bad lie.   Just laid it up, hit a bad chip shot and 2‑putted and plus three.   So we'll see.  
   
 Q.   Is the course harder today?  
BOB GAUS:   No, because there's no wind‑‑ well, there's wind, but not as much as yesterday, different wind direction.   
What's hard is the pin placements.   It's hard to make a birdie unless you're really zeroed in on your iron game.   And, boy, I was just trying to hit middle of the greens, just give myself chances.   But the pins were tougher today.   
   
 Q.   Did they move some tee boxes box?  
BOB GAUS:   They moved 6 back.   That par‑3's playing pretty tough.   Lucky to make par there.   But 1, 10, 18, 15, all good holes.   I've yet to par 1 and 10.   So I'm 4‑over on those two holes and 3‑over for the tournament.   So, technically, I would be right in it.   Let's just hope I make the cut and see what happens.   
   
 Q.   What did you birdie?  
BOB GAUS:   Second hole, No. 2.   That was it.   Bogey 1, birdie 2.  
   
 Q.   What did you hit there?  
BOB GAUS:   I hit a little 9‑iron or 9‑iron about 15 feet and sang it, so.   A little down‑hiller.   
Just, you know, when you play with somebody like the guys I play with, they show you how to hit it a little more straighter and more accurate with their irons and especially their driver.   So that's what I need to work on.   If I keep missing fairways I'm not going to have many birdie chances.   
   
 Q.   That's what you told me before the tournament.   
BOB GAUS:   Usually that's the best part of my game, I drive it pretty straight.   But I'm not out here with the gateway guys, it's a little different.   So we're working on it though.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel pretty good, you didn't?  
BOB GAUS:   I feel great.   You know what I feel good about.  
   
 Q.   Have you made a cut before?  
BOB GAUS:   No, this might be the first one I've made.   But I played really well the whole way, both days, didn't do anything stupid, no double bogeys.   And I felt pretty comfortable for once in one of these things.   So we'll see what happens.  
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT