NCAA MEN'S 1ST ROUND: DAYTON
March 14, 2011
Ed Biedenbach
Matt Dickey
J.P. Primm
John Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We're joined by UNC Asheville. We'll begin with a statement by Coach Eddie Biedenbach.   
 COACH BIEDENBACH: We're really happy to be here, and everybody knows that with all of the 68 teams that are in the field.   
 So we were here in 2003, and Dayton has been probably the best place ever to play except when you're playing Dayton. To come in here as an independent or come in here representing another school, the town has been so hospitable. This is one of the two best places I've ever been as a neutral team. And the knowledgeable fans, we were treated great. And we've come into town, the way they treated us at the airport, the hotel, and here has been great again.   
 So congratulations to Dayton for putting their best foot forward and also to really embracing this tournament. It's been really -- it's been a wonderful experience for us several years ago, and hopefully it will be the same this year.  
 We've been very fortunate. Our team's been a little up and down with injuries, a little up and down with play, but it's been a hard-working group, and these three in particular have given us great leadership, one senior and two juniors, to put us in a position where we could get better all year, which we did. We got better as a team, and several of us got better individually.   
 But we had a nice little streak at the end, finally put six games together to win our tournament. And we thought so far it's been a great year. But we have a lot to prove yet, we think.  
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks, Coach. Questions for the players.   
  
  Q. J.P., I understand you guys had a charter flight. Have you ever flown a charter before?  
 J.P. PRIMM: Actually, I haven't.   
  
  Q. What's that experience like?  
 J.P. PRIMM: Actually, I was talking to a couple of guys. We was going back and forth, we said we felt presidential. So it was good. It was a great turnout.  
  
  Q. J.P., can you talk about you guys getting to kick the tournament off in this new format, and have you talked about it and does it mean anything to you?  
 J.P. PRIMM: It was exciting us to watching the Selection Sunday and where they were going to place us and whatnot, and when we were peeking we were playing Arkansas. We talked amongst ourselves, and it's exciting to be the first one to be in the tournament and to play the first game.   
 And our guys are pretty stoked about it and we're excited about it.  
  
  Q. Matt, heard you guys got a key to the city yesterday. What's that like? And I guess was it just part of the euphoria of the entire city?  
 MATT DICKEY: Yeah, actually, Coach B. got the key to the city. That was cool for us. We got to meet the mayor and they congratulated us and stuff. It's cool to be supported by your city that much and having the kind of support we have behind us. And I think we're lucky to have that.  
  
  Q. John, could you talk about what the plans were like from the time you heard last night to now, where all have you guys been and how quickly did you have to get things done and just to get here today?  
 JOHN WILLIAMS: Everything was rather hectic right when we found out where we were going to be playing and who we were going to be playing against. I'm sure the coaches developed a quick scouting report for us and some video and so forth.   
 And right when we found out, we were getting a lot of text messages from our coaches telling us what we need to bring and how to be properly prepared for the tournament.   
  
  Q. Any of you, when you're playing a state full of so many big-named schools, how satisfying is this? And what does this do for your program?  
 MATT DICKEY: I think it's cool. We actually came up here played Ohio State earlier in the season, and they're a good team. And it's teams we watched on TV all the time. And getting to play here, we watched -- I remember watching Winthrop playing the game or playing the game last year, and I said we need to be there next year or be -- we need to get in the tournament next year and we come here and play.   
 And we're here now, so we need to make the most of it.  
 J.P. PRIMM: Similar to what Matt said, when you're little, you grow up and you dream about playing the bigger teams, the Dukes, the Carolinas, the Notre Dames, the Pitts, and if we win this game, it's like a dream come true, not only playing the big teams, but being in the NCAA Tournament itself.   
 And the last couple of weeks have been great and I just want to continue that and hopefully it will be a good turnout.  
 JOHN WILLIAMS: I feel the same way as J.P. feels. We were growing up as kids, we would never imagine -- we imagined being in this situation, but to actually be here and have a chance to play against a team like Pitt, we're very excited about it. And for me personally we'll be representing not only our town but also where we're from originally.   
  
  Q. Matt, the game's on national TV, as you guys know. Is there any extra thrill knowing that it's going to be called by Clark Kellogg and Jim Nance, CBS's A-team?  
 MATT DICKEY: That's pretty cool. Like they were saying you grow up watching the games, calling the game, they call the Final Four. It's going to be cool to get -- we obviously won't hear them, but it will be cool knowing that they'll be calling the game.  
 J.P. PRIMM: Definitely. It's a pleasure to be playing on TV, regardless. And being a mid-major, you dream about playing on TV. And once you do, you try to make the best of it. And I think we're going to do that.  
 JOHN WILLIAMS: I feel my mom's going to record everything that's said, and hopefully they say some nice things about me so she can let me know.   
 So I'm definitely excited to hear big names like that talk about us and our team.  
 COACH BIEDENBACH: When we call time-out I don't want you guys stopping and talking to those guys; you come over to the bench and we'll get it straight. You can talk to them after.   
  
  Q. John, you guys seem pretty excited. I don't hear or sense any disappointment in playing in the opening-round games. Is that the correct vibe here?  
 JOHN WILLIAMS: We feel just to be in the situation is a blessing. And so for us to have the season that we've had and to go through so many ups and downs and to be put in this situation, we're actually more humbled than anything.  
  
  Q. Matt, about the time off, March 5th was the last game in the conference championship games, so there's been a little time to think about it, get your game ready and then prepare quickly for your opponent. How did that affect you coming into the game tomorrow night?  
 MATT DICKEY: I was talking to a couple of people and they asked me about that. And we have had some time off and haven't played a game in a while. But I think we've had really good practices this week. And we've all been excited about this opportunity. And I think we've prepared well and we'll have to prepare for Arkansas Little Rock today. We didn't know we were going to play them until last night. But I think we'll stay focused today and have a good practice and get ready for them.  
 J.P. PRIMM: I think not playing in a couple -- actually, since our last game, has given us kind of an advantage. Because we played actually the last two weeks, we've been playing three or four games a week, and I think a lot of the guys needed to take a day off or two days off.   
 And we were excited to get back at it to know that we were going to be playing regardless if it was a playing game or -- and the way I feel about the playing game, it's still part of the tournament. And that's how our guys feel. And we're excited about it.   
 So I think the time off for us helped us out.  
 JOHN WILLIAMS: Yeah, Coach B., Coach B. is not going to let us be easy at any time, I'm going to tell you that now. He'll never let you sit back on your heels. We'll be on our toes. That's how it's been the last few weeks. We've been on our toes. It's been crazier in practice.   
 So I think we're going to be ready for the game.  
  
  Q. He gave you a lot of days off?  
 JOHN WILLIAMS: He gave us two days off, but he'll say he gave us a week off.  
  
  Q. Matt, I know in the last two, three years you've played a lot of games at Carolina, at Ohio State, Georgetown, and I'm sure those are different than a home game against a Mars Hill or Brevard, but do you anticipate the different feeling, the atmosphere you're going to face tomorrow night? It's something -- even though you've had some experience in big games, do you anticipate a different nervousness or a different feeling because this is a tournament and this is the end of the season if you lose?  
 MATT DICKEY: Yeah, I'd say it feels like the conference tournament in a way. It's one and out when you lose and you go home. And I think we'll have that mindset. But we'll be focused on -- I don't think we'll be nervous, you'd say, but I think we'll be ready to play. And I think we're experienced playing in some big games like that on TV, like Ohio State and North Carolina, and I think that should help us out for tomorrow.  
 J.P. PRIMM: When you say nervousness, you know, regardless of if we're playing a D-III team or we're playing Duke, I think our guys are going to prepare the same way as we prepare for any other team.  
 And I think that's a big part of staying humble and not only playing to the potential of the opponent but playing like we're capable of doing, and I feel like we've been doing that the last couple of weeks. We made our run through the tournament, and I think -- and I know we're not going to stop now.  
 JOHN WILLIAMS: Yeah, I agree. I feel this being a tournament game, I don't think we'll be nervous, but I feel that we'll be -- I feel like we're thankful to be in this situation because at any point you could go home. In that case, the intensity has been up in the last few weeks, so I feel like it's going to be like any other game, but at the same time it's going to be like a Carolina game or a Duke game, you know, because we're used to that situation and we'll be used to the intensity of the atmosphere.  
  
  Q. Now, this being your first game, guys, I've been in that position tomorrow when you wake up, it's going to be game day. What are some of the thoughts that are going to be going through your mind? How are you going to try to channel all that nervous energy? Because it will be there. What are your thoughts on what tomorrow's going to be like for you leading up to the game?  
 MATT DICKEY: I definitely think it will be exciting. It's a first-time experience for all of us. And I think it's just making the most of it is what we want to do. Like they were saying, it's one game, if you lose you're out. It's time to make the most of the situation. That's what we're going to do.  
 J.P. PRIMM: It's going to be really exciting. Last night I was talking to one of my teammates and I was telling him, you know, Coach was shooting us the messages, what to pack and stuff like that. And I was telling him time was going by, time was going by and I couldn't sleep. I was so amped about it. And obviously tomorrow night -- you know, tonight I need to get some sleep because of the game.   
 But, like I said, I think we're going to be all pumped about it and it's going to be an exciting feeling.  
 JOHN WILLIAMS: Yeah, I feel like tomorrow morning when I wake up, what I do, especially when we have a big game, I stretch. I stretch habitually like throughout the day to make sure I'm loose and I'm ready to give 110 percent. And that's what I do.  
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you. Questions for Coach.  
  
  Q. I know you can't anticipate nervousness, but I'm guessing you don't buy all that. You know these guys are going to react a little differently tomorrow night at least earlier in the game. And because you've been through this so many times, and even in the play-in game, you can -- you've got things, advice, to tell these guys because you expect that early game nervousness?  
 COACH BIEDENBACH: No, I think that's good. You kind of have to be natural. One of the reasons we play those big games every year, we play four to seven of those since I've been coaching at UNC Asheville, but I'll tell you, I don't care how many games you play, Syracuse in front of 30,000, at North Carolina, at Ohio State, until you see NCAA up here, that logo, and you walk into the building and you see the Clark Kelloggs and the people there, I told our guys, this is the biggest game they've ever played in.  
 It's not the best team they've ever played, it's not the biggest arena, it's not these things, but this is the biggest game. The best thing they can do for themselves and their school is when they play tomorrow night and prepare for it that way, mentally get yourself right.  
 But I think we've done a lot of things along the way to prepare us to go in and play this game. I don't think we'll be afraid of Arkansas Little Rock. I don't think we'll be afraid of who else, if we're fortunate enough to win. I know the University of Pittsburgh awaits.   
 So that's why we've practiced and played the way we have. If we win the game tomorrow, if we lose the game tomorrow, it's not going to be because of being more nervous than the other team or being less experienced or this or that. I think we're ready to play. But until they get out there and play, some teams need to make a couple of shots to get off on the right foot.   
 Some guys need this or that to get off on the right foot or to battle their way back in if they have a lead at halftime, they don't come out the second half, they kind of take it for granted.  
 This is a 40-minute game, and we're going to have to get ready to play. This team is maybe a little better than us, maybe a little worse, maybe the same.   
 There's not a whole lot of difference in the teams. The team that wins is going to be the team that treats the game properly, has the best attitude, the best effort, and happens to make a few shots.  
  
  Q. Especially having been here for the opening-round game, there was some that played in that game that were a little bit critical of it that it didn't feel enough a part of the tournament. Did you feel that way? Do you feel like this format is better for improving on that?  
 COACH BIEDENBACH: I don't know what format is the best. But people ask me would you like -- if you had your preference, what would you like to do. In fact, I think, Keith, you asked me that. What would you like? And I really don't have a preference. I know this: If we play University of Pittsburgh in the first round in Washington D.C. or Duke in Charlotte, we have less chance of winning 20 games this year. We're 19 and 13.   
 We have a chance in this game to have a 20-win season. That's not as big a deal as advancing in the NCAA Tournament.   
 But the point I'm trying to make there is that this is a wonderful opportunity for our school and our team. Playing early and having a conference championship early, being the first team to, as the media says, punch the ticket for the big dance, that was fantastic.   
 Our guys riding back on the bus from Myrtle Beach, seeing on ESPN -- we stopped in a restaurant in Columbia and the place went nuts when we went in there. For our guys to experience that, and preparation to be here in Dayton and to play in front of these fans in front of a full house, it's just great, great for your school, great for what they've prepared themselves for all their lives.  
 If anybody is critical of this, they're probably spoiled. Lived too good a life. Maybe that was Billy Packer that said that. I'm not Charles Barkley.  
  
  Q. You did get the key to the city. Can you describe what it looked like and where are you storing it now?  
 COACH BIEDENBACH: My wife took it to see if it was really gold. It's about this big and I tried it in every door I wanted to get in and it didn't work in any of them.   
 I thought they were giving it to the team, which I think they did and I just happened to be the representative there, but that's never happened to me before. And I thought it was a nice neat thing, cool thing, whatever, I thought that was great.   
 But then when I listened to the guys when they were interviewed, some of the things they said about it, and it made me feel even better because this is my family here. And how they feel what they see is a lot how I react to things.  
 This is a good team, a good bunch of guys. They worked really hard, and they play hard. And at least in the last month or so they hadn't played hard all season long for one reason or another. But they learned that that's how you have to play if you're going to win more than a couple of games in a row against teams you're supposed to beat.   
 And we've learned a lot in the last half of this season. And I'm really proud of them.  
  
  Q. You just partly answered my question. But what kind of enjoyment do you take out of watching these guys experience first things, like maybe a first time on a charter flight and the keys to the city and things like that?  
 COACH BIEDENBACH: That charter flight is the way to go. We bused to Ohio State. That was a pretty good team. But I liked it coming here better. So that might answer your question better.   
 That's great. Some of these guys come from backgrounds where they don't have an opportunity to fly, and our school is not a wealthy school athletically. It's a great school academically and Asheville is one of the best towns in the country to live and it's got a lot of sports things, the baseball and all the other sports that they have there, but it's been great to have these guys experience -- some of these guys it tickles you some of the statements you hear. I wouldn't want to embarrass any of them. But some of them haven't been very far very often.  
  
  Q. Your thoughts on Arkansas Little Rock, how much have you been able to gather in the last 24 hours and just a general thought on the style of play?  
 COACH BIEDENBACH: To me they're a lot like -- on paper -- until you see somebody physically you really don't know. After about three or four minutes of the game, you know, our players and our coaching staff and myself will have a better feel for exactly what they are.   
 But they're a little bit like Northeastern from the standpoint of the guards are very strong and great shooters.   
 They're a little like Charleston Southern, better, but not much better, but a little better. With a guy like Warren, their guard here, the transfer from Florida -- from South Florida -- is a very talented kid. Nice shot fakes, draws fouls. Shoots a lot of 3s, but their back-up shooters are better than those guys.  
 But a perimeter-oriented team that has some bulky guys, kind of like our Quinard Jackson, only two, three inches bigger. And so it's a formidable opponent for us and something that I'm looking forward to.   
 Like us, they were not at the top of their league but were able to win their tournament. But they're a physical team and more physical from the guard spot as I see on paper.   
 So I'm looking forward to seeing them in person. I'm going to scout their practice here and see how they -- yeah.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Coach.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT