NBA DRAFT
June 24, 2010
Ekpe Udoh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  No. 6 Selection, Golden State Warriors

 Q. Talk about going to Golden State, not much of a defensive pedigree there but how are you looking forward to bringing that defensive intensity in the middle while those guards show their offensive promise? 
 EKPE UDOH: I'm just going to come in with the mindset of playing defense first. It's something that comes easy to me and something that I love to do, block shots and help the team in any way advance.

 Q. Are you prepared for Coach Nelson, with the erratic minutes, two minutes or 40 minutes, are you prepared for that? 
 EKPE UDOH: I wouldn't say I'm prepared now but it's something that you have to grow with, having never been through it. I just have to work with it and I've been to a year where I didn't play a whole year so just got to keep getting better. 

 Q. Can you talk about specifically what Coach taught you at Baylor? 
 EKPE UDOH: Just being versatile, being able to be anywhere out on the court and on defense, you know, anchoring the whole team. 

 Q. Did you have an idea of where you were going to get picked?
 EKPE UDOH: I had an idea, my agent told me six to nine, so he calmed my nerves a little bit. Very excited.

 Q. Was Golden State in your mind at all? 
 EKPE UDOH: It was a possibility. 

 Q. Golden State has a lot of turmoil but there are rumors a lot of change, that it's an unstable organization right now. 
 EKPE UDOH: I'm just going to go there and work hard. I can't control that stuff. 

 Q. Do you actually study the geography? Did that enter your mind? 
 EKPE UDOH: It's not something I don't study, but I know it's a beautiful city and I'm ready for it. It won't be like the winters I had to face in Michigan. 

 Q. It's been a while since we had a Baylor player standing here and you were a part of bringing them back; talk about being part of the surge of Baylor this year?
 EKPE UDOH: I love B-U nation. Coming together, everybody is for Baylor and it's great, we are going to be successful in the years to come and I really believe in Coach and what he's doing. 

 Q. Elaborate more about Coach Drew as Baylor was pretty much in dark times, like almost a decade ago. 
 EKPE UDOH: He's just done a great job, everybody bought in and if you get into the system, he's going to love you and take care of you. This year, we really grinded it out for him, and you know, during the tournament, people tried to bring up what happened in the past but we just kept on winning, so, you know, now they are out of the past. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT