THE BARCLAYS
August 29, 2015
Sangmoon Bae
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Sensational round today,63, very well played.  How much did you enjoy the momentum that you and Jason had out there today?  
SANG-MOON BAE: I really enjoyed this round.  Jason is a world-class player.  Really enjoyed his play.  He's really good.  And I played pretty solid today.  Really solid.   
 Q.  All aspects of your game but in particular a lot of people noticed the putting performance.  We are going to show three of the highlights, the first one at 11?  
SANG-MOON BAE: I made a first bogey today on 10 and did a really good bounce there.  It was a pretty safe shot and made a really good putt.   
 Q.  Birdie at 14, and then this at 15, as well?  
SANG-MOON BAE: This is a little longer than 11 but read it really good on the green, a little bit lucky.   
 Q.  And as we come to the end of your round, just that blemish at 17.  To finish off this in fashion and to post a round of 63?  
SANG-MOON BAE: This is the 18th.  Also made a bogey on 17.  That is a really good bounce back almost.  Wasn't a really fast putt.  But good birdie for tomorrow's round, so happy.   
 Q.  This story about military service has been well documented.  How tough is it mentally that given the success you've had in your career, two-time PGA TOUR winner and how well you're playing now?  
SANG-MOON BAE: This situation, it's mandatory in Korea.  I have a little mixed emotion.  I have to go and I have only a few tournaments, and I will play really hard and work really hard.  I'm really looking forward to playing tomorrow.   
 Q.  And is The Presidents Cup out of equation?  
SANG-MOON BAE: I'm not sure if Mr. Nick Price is going to pick me up.  I'm definitely going to go back after the FedExCup.   
 Q.  If Mr. Nick Price is watching --  
SANG-MOON BAE: I hope he's watching the TV now.   
 Q.  You got off to a great start.  How much different is the golf course playing today than the first two days?  
SANG-MOON BAE: Putter was really good today.  I had a really, really solid round today.   
 Q.  We know about you having to suspend your golf career for a while due to your military responsibilities in your native South Korea.  How important would it be for you to play well and maybe win tomorrow and qualify to play in The Presidents Cup in your home country?  
SANG-MOON BAE: Actually I have a really tough situation right now.  But I don't think about it anymore actually.  I have to go back.  So that is a few weeks later.  So I just want to play good golf this week and really want to play Presidents Cup in my country.   
I hope to play well tomorrow and Mr. Nick Price can pick me up.   
 Q.  Wonderful round of golf today.  Your thoughts on how you played?  
SANG-MOON BAE: I played really good today.  I played with Jason Day.  He's a world-class player and I feel like I learned so much golf from him today.  He's really awesome.  I really enjoyed to play with him.   
 Q.  He said he drafted off you, getting off to that great start.  When both players are playing well, that really helps, doesn't it?  
SANG-MOON BAE: Yeah, that is a really big momentum and Jason played really solid.  I made a bunch of putts.  Everything was good today.   
 Q.  Exciting day out there with Jason, just get some comments on your play and also sort of how well you two played together.  
SANG-MOON BAE: I well, I really enjoyed to play with Jason Day today.  He's a really good player on TOUR.  So he played really solid and that's why I played good today.   
 Q.  Just comment a little bit about your mind-set going into the final round tomorrow.  
SANG-MOON BAE: I had a really solid round first three rounds and I have one more round tomorrow Sunday.  I think a driver, iron, wedge, putting works really good now.  So I really looking forward to playing tomorrow, and I think I will do just my best tomorrow.   
 Q.  I don't know if you've been asked this yet, but how much is the impending military duty weighing on your mind?  How much are you thinking about it right now?  
SANG-MOON BAE: Actually I'm not thinking about it right now.  This is a golf course that -- my country situation, that is a really important thing, but I think really important, my position right now, almost on top of the leaderboard.  So I don't want to think about it and I want to just play to my game tomorrow.   
 Q.  Can you take us through where you are in the process with that whole thing right now?  
SANG-MOON BAE: What do you mean?   
 Q.  Where is it right now?  
SANG-MOON BAE: That is already said -- I already sent back to I don't remember I can't and I'm going to do the military service.  Nobody bothering me.  Just I play a couple more tournaments and I'm back and I will do military service.  So that is almost two years.  The Korean government knows.  So that is obvious things.   
 Q.  If you were to make The Presidents Cup team, is there a chance they would let you play in that before you start your service?  
SANG-MOON BAE: I hope so.  That is my country in Presidents Cup, so I really want to play in Korea, The Presidents Cup, so I hope so.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT