RBC HERITAGE
April 16, 2015
Sangmoon Bae
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JOHN BUSH:   We'd like to welcome Sang‑Moon Bae into the interview room here RBC Heritage.   He is our current leader here at the RBC Heritage, 4‑under par today.   If we can get some comments on an excellent opening round.  
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Yeah, I felt like really, really good.   I had a good round this morning.   The weather wasn't good, but I stayed patient.   Yeah, I had a really solid round today.  
JOHN BUSH:   This is your third start at this tournament.   What is it that you like about this golf course?   
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Actually my first time was 2012.   I really liked this course, but the weather wasn't great that time.   So I withdraw; my body was a little hurt.   
So I didn't play last year, and then came back this year.   
And this course is like a Japanese course, because pretty narrow fairway and small greens.   Have a good target on course, that's why I like this course.   
JOHN BUSH:   Before we open up for questions, recap your season for us up to this point.  
SANG‑MOON BAE:   I couldn't play well last couple of weeks because my ball‑striking wasn't great.   I'm working with my coach Alan.   We work on my swing plane, but ball‑striking was really, really bad the last couple of weeks.   Things are a little improved right now.   That's why I played good today and played last week at the Masters.   I think my game a little came back, yeah, last week.   
   
 Q.   You said your ball‑striking has been off.   This seems like the kinds of golf course you have to have very, very good ball‑striking.   Is that a measure of how much you've improved over the last couple of weeks?  
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Yeah, couldn't play well the last four or five weeks, I hit the ball like to the left or very thin, fat.   I hit everything.   So I wasn't really upset.   I worked with my coach.   We had a little trouble, too.   But I'm trying to focus my game, the short game and putt, which is really important on the golf course.   
But I'm still working on it.   But a little came back.  
   
 Q.   Who is your swing coach?  
SANG‑MOON BAE:   His name is Alan.   He's here.  
JOHN BUSH:   Is that his first name?   
SANG‑MOON BAE:   First name is Alan.  
   
 Q.   His last name?  
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Wilson.  
   
 Q.   Can you describe the conditions out there.   Typically morning rounds in Harbour Town have pretty low numbers, but that doesn't seem to be the case today?  
SANG‑MOON BAE:   The course condition was a little wet, but not as wet as I thought with the rain last night.   But fairways are a little bit wet but not really wet.   They're pretty good.   The greens a little slower than practice round.   Pretty good speed.   But even this green has a little bit of strong grain than the other year.   I had a little trouble with the grain, kind of tricky.   
   
 Q.   I know Kevin Kisner was in here talking about one of the things he likes about this course is the fact that it doesn't demand that you hit it ten miles, but that you do have to shape shots and get it in the primary landing areas.   Is that something that appeals to you in your game?  
SANG‑MOON BAE:   I didn't try to shape a lot, no.   These greens really small.   So I hit the ball just center of the green, then make more birdie chance with the greens.   So it doesn't matter where the pin is, I'm trying to hit it center of the green.  
   
 Q.   How about off the tee, though, as far as positioning the ball in the fairway?  
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Yeah, tee shot is really hard this course, you know, but not much can hit driver.   Sometimes hit iron, hybrid or 3‑wood.   So just trying to get a little wide space, left or right, not the center of the fairway, whereas impossible to hit to the green.   Yeah, course management.  
   
 Q.   How many drivers did you hit today?  
SANG‑MOON BAE:   I can't remember.   I think five, six times.   
   
 Q.   Is there any update on your military service?   I know that was a conversation early in the year.   
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Nothing changed.   So still waiting for legal action, the court situation.   So one or two months more need to wait.   So nothing change now.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT