NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 21, 2015
Sangmoon Bae
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What do you like about this golf course? 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Everything, the green, green speed, the rough.   I like this grass, the kikuyu.   Pretty much the same as Korea or Japan.

Q.   Goosen talked about the fact that the grasses reminds him somewhat of South Africa.   So the same thing for you? 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Yeah, pretty much. 

Q.   And you just inherently when you come out here and look around, you feel more comfortable? 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Yes, a little bit.   You know, this course is really hard, really difficult course.   The greens are getting firmer, so really need good iron shots for Saturday and Sunday, too. 

Q.   Your 5‑under today is similar to what Bubba did last year.   Do you feel like you have to do something like that again tomorrow? 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   I had a good experience last two years.   So I know this course well, I think.   Where I have to hit, where I don't have to hit somewhere.   So that's it, what I think now.

Q.   So it's more you know where you want to not miss; you know where you can miss and where you can't miss? 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Right.   I found out last year.   That's why I'm saying good experience. 

Q.   What is the difference between yesterday when you struggled to make birdies and today where you were stringing them together?   Is it just the confidence you got from that finish yesterday or is there something else? 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Yeah, a little bit higher confidence level today because putting, yeah, putting feels a little better than the first round.   And also, iron shot, iron was, yeah, better than the first round, two.   So that makes a good score.

Q.   Did you do anything after Thursday's round with regard to your putting? 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   No, I just left.   I left after the round because I was very upset.   Double‑bogey on 8 and bogeyed 9th hole, so that was stupid play, last two holes.   (Laughter).

Q.   What do you think was your best shot today? 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Well, which hole‑‑ I think a couple holes, 6 and 10.   12 was a really good up‑and‑down for par. 

Q.   Isn't that funny; sometimes it's the pars that keep your round going more than the birdies. 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   4 is really hard. 

Q.   Can you give us an update on the situation in Korea and how that might be entering your mind, and is that any extra pressure?   Is there any update?
SANG‑MOON BAE:   No, pretty much the same. 

Q.   Is there a chance you would not want to play in The Presidents Cup because you wouldn't be able to get back here? 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   I don't know.   We'll find out on June or July.

Q.   So far, low round of the day, 5‑under.   Any time you can have an under par round at Riviera is good.   A bogey‑free 5‑under day is tremendous.   What was working so well for you? 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Yeah, I made a lot of putts today and bogey‑free, it was a really, really solid round.   This course is really difficult, so the greens are getting firmer.   Yeah, I had a good round today.

Q.   For you, what's more impressive, the fact that you made five birdies or the fact that you remained bogey‑free? 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Actually I played really good the front nine holes.   But you know, the back nine is really a harder format I think.   It was pretty good. 

Q.   I would say it's very good.   This is your third year here, and we talk about how important experience is here at Riviera.   For you, do you feel like your experience translates into better play every year? 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   I played it twice, two years ago and last year.   This is the third time.   I had a really good experience last year because I led after two rounds, but shoot pretty high number on Saturday.   It was a pretty good experience for this year.   I find out where I can hit and where I can't.   So really look forward to playing tomorrow and Sunday, final round. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT