HYUNDAI TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 9, 2015
Sangmoon Bae
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHRIS REIMER:   Excellent first round, especially the beginning.   Talk about the front nine.  
SANG‑MOON BAE:   I think I was in zone.   Was easier than last year because a little comfortable on the course, on the green, also.   Yeah, I think I played really, really good the front nine.  
   
 Q.   Did you have a number in mind at all today when you kind of got out on the range maybe and warmed up, did you think these conditions could yield a certain number?   
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Actually wind wasn't strong today, so I was on the range, I hit some irons and a couple of driver shot.   It was a really, really good rhythm I got.   So, yeah, comfortable and ball‑striking was really, really good today.   
   
 Q.   How much have you been playing?   How much practice?   
SANG‑MOON BAE:   In the morning.  
   
 Q.   In the last couple weeks, whatever?  
SANG‑MOON BAE:   I have practice round on Monday and‑‑ no, no, Tuesday, Wednesday and Pro‑Am Thursday.   I practiced a lot in Honolulu at the Waialae Country Club a couple time, and the other time in the other course.   But pretty normal course, Honolulu Country Club, HCC.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned being in a good rhythm.   If you break down your round, is it about ball‑striking?   Is it about putting? What was the thing that really carried you today?   
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Excuse me?   
   
 Q.   What was the thing that really carried you threw out the today‑‑  
SANG‑MOON BAE:   I think both.   Everything works really good now, especially the drive shot is really, really good, much improved than last year.   Also, actually these greens are really hard to read.   Basically the grain isn't very strong but grain and slope very offset, so really hard to read.   I need my caddie's help.   I really need it.   And it worked good today.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you came here really focused and ready to compete again after some time off?   
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Yes, I do.   
   
 Q.   Was it hard to focus with all the other stuff going on or is it helpful to be all golf?   
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Actually a little bit, yeah, a little bit hard to focus on my game, because I got a little trouble, but I try to split things but I don't want to think about it, the other things on the course.   So, yeah, I think I did really good today.   I really do‑‑ I really, really do next three days, also.   
   
 Q.   Everyone seems more worried about your future than you do.   
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Yeah (laughing).   
   
 Q.   Your impressions of this golf course and does it fit your game pretty well?   
SANG‑MOON BAE:   I think so, because fairways are really, really wide, and I think keys are really good iron shot here and putt, because wind is really, really strong some days.   So we really need a good distance from the second shot.   So easy, more control and good read and then very aggressive stroke, that's it.   So, yeah, I think this course is good for me.   
   
 Q.   You've already won once on the Tour this season and you've had a Top‑5, you're leading at the moment after the first round today.   Is there one reason why your game has come together so well?   
SANG‑MOON BAE:   I don't know.   I didn't play well last year before October.   But I missed the cut at Barclays and then the finished that season after Barclays.   I don't know, I think my golf is much improved but didn't play well.   But only three or four weeks, totally different game in Napa.   My caddie and I‑‑ I don't know, my caddie asked me‑‑ I don't know, I just practiced a little bit.   Hung out, and played a little bit, but much improved a bit my game from October.   I don't know, just different conditions maybe.   But swing wasn't changed.   
   
 Q.   Is it the red wine maybe?   
SANG‑MOON BAE:   In Napa, yeah (laughter).   I think grape is work for me.   
   
 Q.   If you didn't change your swing, was there anything else you adjusted in that period of time before October?  
SANG‑MOON BAE:   No, swing is pretty same.   I think a little different thing in my head.   I totally agree, golf is mental, so a little different think.   You know, it was a new season in the first tournament in Napa.   That makes more refreshed in my mind.  
   
 Q.   So what was going through your head today?  
SANG‑MOON BAE:   This is a new year, first tournament is opening round was really, really comfortable.   I played pretty aggressive today.   Yeah, that's it.   
   
 Q.   And do you feel any urgency with everything going onto really try and play well early this year, not knowing what the heck could have happened?   
SANG‑MOON BAE:   No, not really‑‑ well, I don't know.   Just play.   (Laughing).   
   
 Q.   Which feels like the new year to you, this week, or Fry's?   
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Both.   Both.   This is a new year on calendar.   But Napa was new season, new season on just, you know, PGA TOUR.   
   
 Q.   Every week we're a new year‑‑  
SANG‑MOON BAE:   That's a really good thing, even Barclays and FedExCup, it's a new year.   
   
 Q.   Just wondering if you could talk about what it's like to play in Maui and Hawai'i, imagine it's a shorter trip than flying to the United States, or I guess it's halfway?  
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Sorry, I don't understand‑‑ oh, this is really, really good place.   Best place in my life.   Really good view.   Course is beautiful.   Course, even I said fairways are really wide.   That's why sometimes it makes course a little easier, but winds are really strong some days.   That makes course difficult.   Totally different each day.   
CHRIS REIMER:   Just talk about it being a Presidents Cup year and being in South Korea; talk about the importance of trying to make that team.  
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Yeah, that's my goal, and also to play Olympics next year.   Yeah, first goal is to play in Presidents Cup in Korea.   That's my first goal this year.   
   
 Q.   Even though the tournament is in Hawai'i, and you were in Honolulu last week; do you go to Hawai'i a lot?  
SANG‑MOON BAE:   No, only start of the season in January.   I was in L.A. in December last year.   I practiced a little bit my friend's course.  
   
 Q.   Which one is that?  
SANG‑MOON BAE:   East L.A., I went to a friend, his country club, Montebello, it's pretty public.   My friend is working there and pretty quiet in the afternoon.   I got the cart and practiced and it was really good practice for me.  
   
 Q.   Are there typically a lot of Koreans at Montebello, and if not, do people have any idea who you are?   
SANG‑MOON BAE:   No, actually I was wearing the shorts and different hat, I think nobody knows me.   
   
 Q.   Get any games, any easy money?  
SANG‑MOON BAE:   No, I just practice myself (laughter).   
   
 Q.   I'm curious what your caddie said to you that helped you putt better?  
SANG‑MOON BAE:   He worked really good.   Sometime I'm asking him because I don't want to confuse on the green.   I think I have a good eyes on the green.   So sometime if I confuse, yeah, I have to ask him about the green.   
He's really good caddie about the distance control.   He's really good.   
   
 Q.   After 7‑under today, do you have a number in mind that it might take to win this thing on Monday?   
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Yes, I really want to.   This is a new season, new year.   I won opening tournament in Napa.   This is another new tournament, new season tournament.   So I really want to win this week.   
   
 Q.   What do you think about the score‑‑  
SANG‑MOON BAE:   I don't know.   Depends on weather.   I can't tell.   
CHRIS REIMER:   Thank you, congratulations on the first round and good luck the rest of the week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT