FRYS.COM OPEN
October 11, 2014
Sangmoon Bae
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JOHN BUSH:   We'd like to welcome Sang‑Moon Bae into the interview room after a 7‑under‑par 65, has a four‑shot lead heading into the final round of the Frys.com Open.   Sang‑Moon, phenomenal round, really good putting today.   Just comment on an excellent effort all the way around. 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   I felt like I played perfect today besides two bogeys because I twice three‑putt on‑‑ what hole was it?   Anyway, two holes, but I felt like a really, really good round. 
JOHN BUSH:   Thoughts going into tomorrow's round?   A pretty sizable four‑shot lead. 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Yeah, it's a good score.   Four‑shot lead makes me a little comfortable for Sunday playing, but I don't think about a win because I played really well for three days, but just play my game. 

Q.   What was more fun, the five birdies in a row or the way you finished? 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Five birdies in a row was really fun.   I read every break on the green.   It was a really easy game. 

Q.   I wonder if you could talk about the importance of the par putt you made on 16 because it looked like your lead was going to go down to one, and here you are leading by four. 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   You know, I made a really important par putt.   It was more than a birdie putt.   It felt like more important than a birdie putt.   It really woke me up, so it's a refreshment.   But it's a pretty big one.

Q.   How did you get that in that spot?   What was the shot that got you in trouble on that hole?
SANG‑MOON BAE:   I don't know, I hit a little pull on the second, so it was next to the green, but it was really way left then from what I thought.

Q.   Did it go down‑‑
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Yeah.

Q.   In the ditch?
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Yeah.

Q.   You played it from there?
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Yeah, and a little short of green, and I chipped it still short, not on the green, but I made it from the fringe. 

Q.   That was a bad chip. 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Yeah, bad chip. 

Q.   No offense, but‑‑
SANG‑MOON BAE:   It was a bad chip.

Q.   I guess the thing is when you hit kind of a bad chip like that to get in your head, okay, forget that, move on?
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Third or fourth? 

Q.   Fourth. 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Actually lie wasn't good.   It was kind of a hard ground, so I tried a little something different, so it was a little tricky shot. 

Q.   On the 17th tee did you already have in your mind going in that you were going to use driver instead of laying up?   Did you have that premeditated?
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Honestly I knew the pin position is really hard on that hole, only three from the right.   If I hit a wedge shot, it's a really hard hole, but the tee is up so I only had 170, 180 yards to the hole.
I hit a little fade, so it looked good to me.   That pin position was really good for me.   I hit a really solid drive and a pretty solid high shot that was a little bit lucky, too. 

Q.   How much different is tomorrow, to be up four as opposed to maybe one or two, especially when you consider Kuchar and Mahan and Goosen, guys that have won a lot?
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Yeah, so many good players behind me.   PGA TOUR is always competitive every day, so I don't play just safety sometimes and aggressive sometimes.   I need a really, really good combination today.   I putted really good this week, so it will be good tomorrow, too. 

Q.   What did you do during the time between the Playoffs and now, and was there any part of your game that you worked on that has been going well this week? 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   I changed putters for a second.   I fixed the swing a little bit just to figure out‑‑ sometimes I hit it still right of my target.   That was my problem.   A little fixed.   I think I can control a little bit more than last season.   So a little comfortable right now. 

Q.   How much will you use the memories from the Byron Nelson tomorrow during the final round knowing you've already won on this stage?
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Feels like pretty same as Byron Nelson Saturday.   So I'm looking forward to playing on Sunday tomorrow.   It's just very comfortable.   Nothing will be the same, I will just keep playing. 

Q.   There's been some talk about sort of the exciting final few holes on the course and how it could shape up to be a thrilling finish tomorrow.   You've got 17 where you might be able to go for it, and then 18.   What are your thoughts about that?
SANG‑MOON BAE:   17 and 18? 

Q.   Yeah, and 16, too. 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   The last three holes are really good shape.   It's a par‑5, last hole, very‑‑ some easy stuff, but rough is not easy, from the bunker like it's bad for me.   I went in the front bunker and it was really, really hard.   I hit 9 in from there, and the second I hit again 9‑iron.   It was pretty good, though, to a front hole.

Q.   And then after you had that string of birdies, then you had the bogey.   Did you have to kind of pull yourself back together because you were playing great, you just missed that putt just by a bit.   After that string is broken, then you have the bogey, do you kind of have to regroup and go from there?
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Actually I can't understand that.

Q.   When you had your bogey, you had that great stretch and you had the bogey where you just missed a putt, and at the end you picked it up again, did you regroup at that point?
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Actually, no.   Honestly, I played really, really good the first couple holes, but I made a bogey on 7.   I feel bad, but something‑‑ but still I had more than 10 holes.   Just I told myself to just hang there, still leading, just told myself just to stay patient. 

Q.   As much as you've played on the U.S. TOUR last year, do you have a base in America? 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Yes.   I have an apartment in Dallas, so I'm practicing at TPC Four Seasons where I won there.   I really, really like that place.

Q.   If you had won at the one in Louisiana, would you have been living in New Orleans?
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Yeah.   I would have another apartment here. 

Q.   Why did you buy in Dallas?   Good memories or a central place‑‑
SANG‑MOON BAE:   I play the Byron Nelson last year and I really like that place.   Really easy traveling to everywhere.   Of course there's no state tax in Texas. 

Q.   Do you have a pair of cowboy boots?
SANG‑MOON BAE:   No, not yet. 

Q.   You mentioned earlier that you changed your putter.   How long did it take you to get 100 percent comfortable with it?   It takes a lot of time sometimes. 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Yeah, I changed to black putter.   I had a silver color, but I have a black right now.   It feels pretty much the same, just looks different.

Q.   Just the color?
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Just the color, yeah.   But I have a pretty expensive putter right now, much higher price.

Q.   Scotty Cameron kind of?
SANG‑MOON BAE:   No, it's Odyssey. 

Q.   You won obviously the PGA TOUR tournament Byron Nelson, but other than that you won three times in Japan, eight, nine times in Korea, one of them you beat Ian Poulter, the other one you beat Baddeley.   How comfortable are you as a frontrunner, and also how much will you be watching the leaderboard tomorrow?
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Actually I couldn't play well after the Byron on the PGA TOUR.   I couldn't make the top 10, top 5.   But I don't know, I felt like much improved, but I worked really hard and still working hard, but just the results, the results wasn't good.   Just to stay focused on my game, yeah, that's it. 
JOHN BUSH:   Sang‑Moon Bae, we appreciate your time.   Play well tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT