FRYS.COM OPEN
October 10, 2014
Sangmoon Bae
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I thought you really controlled your misses and able to post a score of 3‑under par 69 in the second round. 
SANG MOON‑BAE:   Yeah, it was pretty fun, because I missed a lot of fairways today, but I hit really good iron today, so I made‑‑ I don't know.   I don't know how many made great up‑and‑downs on the course, so I tried to focus on my game, so it was a pretty solid round.

Q.   I thought you scrambled really well, and you have just dominated these par‑5s.   You are 7‑under par on the par‑5s. 
SANG MOON‑BAE:   Actually, I couldn't hit the fairway on every par‑5.   So only three shot, three shot holes and one putt.   I think I putted pretty well today.   I made a bunch of good putts.

Q.   28 putts on the round, including the spectacular birdie on the 18th hole, your final hole of the second round, drove into the bunker and had 196 yards in with a 6‑iron. 
SANG MOON‑BAE:   Yeah, it was a beautiful shot.   I had almost 200 with a 6‑iron.   It's, I think, much closer than when I hit the wedge shot.   So it was pretty much a good shot.

Q.   You had kind of a confusing year in 2014 in that you posted a lot of top 15s, but I didn't have a single top 10.   Wonderfully positioned, though, going into the weekend here. 
SANG MOON‑BAE:   Yeah.   I'm looking forward to playing the next two days, and I have a really, really good feel, and good iron shots, too.   So I will do my best the next two days.

Q.   Look forward to watching you play.   Well done. 
SANG MOON‑BAE:   Thank you. 

Q.   Sang‑Moon, 69 here in the second round.   9‑under, halfway through.   How happy are you with today's performance?
SANG MOON‑BAE:   I'm happy.   I had a pretty solid round, so I don't know.   I couldn't count how many up and downs today, so I think I drove a little bad, but iron shots was really, really good and short game was good.   So yeah, had a pretty good round today.

Q.   How different was this golf course this morning, colder, a little chillier, overcast as opposed to what you saw on Thursday afternoon?
SANG MOON‑BAE:   Yeah, it was pretty cold this morning.   So it was a little confusing club choice, iron shot and distance. 
But a lot of guys had the same problem, same trouble, so this course is honestly not easy, but I like this course.

Q.   What are you most excited about headed into the weekend, a chance to perhaps win yet again on the PGA TOUR?
SANG MOON‑BAE:   I don't think about win.   This is the first tournament, and I just have played the first two rounds, but I have two rounds again.   So just, you know, I will try to keep giving it my best this weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT