HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2014
Sangmoon Bae
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We will get started.   We would like to welcome our defending champion, SANG‑MOON BAE into the interview room.   Welcome back. 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Thank you. 

Q.   Talk about your win last year, what it did for your career and also your thoughts about trying to defend. 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   It was a really, really good experience last year.   I won this tournament.   But I couldn't play well after this win.   So I'm trying hard, and keep on trying my best, but, you know, just playing hard, working hard, that's it. 

Q.   Talk about this season.   You're making your 16th start, you're coming off a 68th place finish at the PLAYERS.   Talk about your game coming into this week. 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   I shot a low score last week but couldn't play well on Saturday.   I don't know why.   I had the same conditions, same shot field, same putting field but I think I had a mental problem, not that big, but just a little bit.   (Laughter.)
I think I lose focus on the course.   The course was pretty tough last week.   But I play really good, confidence level is getting higher, too. 

Q.   Last year you said that you were thinking about moving here.   Have you moved here?   What were your thoughts on that? 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   I was in LA but I move in here month ago, probably.   Yeah, month ago.   Five minutes away.   I really like it here.   Not really great weather, but I like the city, persons, everything. 

Q.   You were talking about your play.   Is it fair to say you have been frustrated with how the season has gone? 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Yeah, I had a little bit of pressure and a little stress, too, because I worked really hard, but results was not that good.   But golf is not easy.   Everybody has that problem, just working same way, so I'm just waiting and stay patient.   Just playing, just practice, stay patient. 

Q.   I've read about your technical swing and how sometimes people stop and other pros want to stop and watch you.   Is it true you learned that from "You Tube" videos and your mother? 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   That was a really, really long time ago.   Now I want to make such strong playing, more steady, more consistent.   I shoot 66 Thursday of last week and 79 on Saturday.   I think that it wasn't technique, it was course managing or a little more think, and mental.   That's why I'm working on like, course managing more.   Not swing, putting, everything is, yeah, difficult. 

Q.   Moon, you said you moved about five minutes away.   Will this be your primary practice facility whenever you get fully up and running in Irving or Dallas, wherever your house is at? 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Yeah, I move here month ago.   So in month, I tooktrips out here, so I came out here four times, five times, that's all and I went to Craig Ranch golf course couple times.   It was a really good practice area, too.   So I like here.

Q.   Did you find it difficult to stay motived after winning last year?   You obviously secured your card for a couple years.   Was that one of the issues you were dealing with?
SANG‑MOON BAE:   (Through interpreter) that's true.   Back then winning was the goal, but after I won, I didn't have pressure, same pressure as last year.   But since I have another goal, I am trying to focus for another goal that I have in my mind. 

Q.   Can you talk about last year and your start here, three 66s.   Why did you feel so immediately comfortable on this course? 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   I like this course shape, pretty wide and I like this green, because a little easier than the other greens, because they are a little easier to read, not much grain, not much slope, some green is hilly but speed is perfect and good grass, so easy read. 
You know, we play every different grass each week, so I have a little problem every week, different grass every week.   So it was a little hard, hard to putt. 

Q.   Just a question, Scotty Scheffler came in here, high school player, talking about his goal is to finish in the top‑10 of this tournament this week.   We've seen a lot of young players do very well on the PGA TOUR in recent years.   What is your thought if you had played on the PGA TOUR as a teenager, how intimidating would that have been?   What are your thoughts about so many young kids doing well out here? 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   PGA TOUR was my dream, play on the TOUR, you know?   I really liked Tiger.   He was my hero.   I liked his swing, playing, everything, action.   But I'm doing here, I'm here, pretty impressed.   Every week I'm happy doing here, I'm learning, learning from every‑‑ each player and everywhere, the course.   So many good players on the TOUR.   It's really, really competitive.   That's why I have to work hard. 
THE MODERATOR:   Sang‑Moon Bae, thank you, sir. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT