NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 14, 2014
Sangmoon Bae
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SANG‑MOON BAE:   Not really easy, this course is very tricky.   I always aim to focus on my game and just patience, that's it. 

Q.   Like yesterday, did this golf course change as you went along through the round? 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Not a big difference.   Greens was a little bumpy than yesterday but I missed a lot of putts yesterday, so I started from 7:30 this morning, the green was much better than yesterday, so I made a bunch of good putts.

Q.   Just one bogey in the round for two days, have to feel pretty good about that?
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Yeah, I had a really, really solid two rounds.   I love this course. 

Q.   Do you remember the first time you played here?
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Yeah, first time was last year.   First time, bit hilly and greens small and need really good driver into the iron holes, so pretty comfortable to play.

Q.   What do you like most about this course? 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   You know, is good drive, and rough is not really thick, so really need patience, that's the most important about this course. 

Q.   You had a share of the halfway lead last year and then a great third round; did you learn anything from that? 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Yeah, I didn't play well third round last year.   It was really, really good experience, and I learned a lot.   You know, I felt much improvement, improved a lot than last year.

Q.   What did you learn from last year? 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Patience, that's it. 

Q.   Why do you say it was a good experience last year? 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   I only had one bogey first two rounds but sometimes I missed a short putt but I wasn't angry, feel like much improved.

Q.   Do you feel like the anger‑‑ if you can let go it affected your game? 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   I think every player has that happen, so miss the short putt, sometimes make a long putt, so it happens, I understand.

Q.   When you talk about patience, do you think patience is one of your strong suits or something you struggle with? 
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Yeah, patience is one of the strongest points of my game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT