SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 9, 2014
Sangmoon Bae
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JOHN BUSH:   We'd like to welcome Sang Moon Bae into the interview room here at the Sony Open at Hawai'i.   7‑under par 63 is a new career low on the PGA TOUR, and Sang Moon, if we can just get some comments on your round. 
SANG MOON BAE:   Well, I played really well today.   I made a bunch of good putts, actually a lot of putts.   I think I hit 16 greens.   That's really good, too.
JOHN BUSH:   Obviously this like this golf course, but making your fourth start at this tournament. 
SANG MOON BAE:   Yeah, actually this is my third year on PGA TOUR, so a little comfortable, feels much better than last year, too.   I had a practice round three, four times here before‑‑ actually last year.   I came here December 20th.   I had a lot of practice rounds, so comfortable round. 

Q.   Everybody hears the Hawaiian Swing, but this week and last week probably couldn't be more different.   Can you talk about how this course fits your eye more than maybe last week?
SANG MOON BAE:   I think I played well last week, but really tough greens‑‑ I mean, very hard to read.   I couldn't read any right‑to‑left putts, any putts, so I missed a lot of putts last week, but this course, the course is more shorter than last week, so easy read, and I can make good speed, too. 

Q.   Tell us how you got an exemption the first time you were here.   How did that come about, back in 2009 maybe? 
SANG MOON BAE:   2009, yeah.   It was my first time here.

Q.   That was an exemption.   You were really young then. 
SANG MOON BAE:   Yeah, I was.   I was playing on the Korean Tour and Sony invited me in 2009.   It was a good experience here.

Q.   The thing here is always the wind, so how did the wind compare to previous times you played?
SANG MOON BAE:   At that time it was a really tough time because the winds were really, really strong out there, and I couldn't hit any low balls, low drivers.   I couldn't control the ball height.   Right now I can control it a little more.   I can hit a little draw or a little hold, any kind of three, four‑‑ I can hit more kind of shots.   I can control a little more than four years ago, five years ago.

Q.   How was the wind today? 
SANG MOON BAE:   The winds were not really strong out there.   It's a little easier than the other days. 

Q.   Which birdies stand out today?
SANG MOON BAE:   1st hole.   Perfect drive, perfect 7‑iron, only three feet.   I made a good putt, and very easy 1st hole. 

Q.   I'm curious, you said was it last year that you came out December 20th?
SANG MOON BAE:   Yeah.

Q.   What did you do?   How did you spend all that time that you were here? 
SANG MOON BAE:   I spent time here at Christmas and end of year, too, so I haven't practiced the last two months‑‑ actually four weeks after World Cup because Korea is really, really cold right now, so I couldn't practice out there, just work out and go hiking or something.   That's how I had vacation. 
But I came here December 20th, so I practiced a little bit, and I had fun.   Go to beach, go swim, yeah, everything.   I like it here.   I like Hawai'i. 

Q.   Now that you've played this course quite a few times, what are the things you have to do really, really well specifically at this course?
SANG MOON BAE:   I think the keys are wind and greens.   Actually wind is going to blow tomorrow strong, I think, so key, key is putting or wind. 
JOHN BUSH:   Great start, Sang Moon.   Keep it going. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT