HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 17, 2013
Sangmoon Bae
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How did the round go for you?   
SANG‑MOON BAE:   I had two bogeys and 6 birdies today.   I made a bunch of long putts.   I enjoyed, was good today, and this course is very windy, so I have to hit a right club.   It was tough.   
   
 Q.   Different from what you saw yesterday morning, the conditions?   
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Yesterday morning was really quiet.   That was a little weird, I thought this course was very windy, but yesterday morning was really good weather for me, no wind, soft green.   So yeah, different but I shoot same score as yesterday so I'm happy.   
Looking forward to next two rounds.   
   
 Q.   So I guess you played better today given the fact that it was much more difficult.   Would you say you played better, too, to shoot the same score?   
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Uh‑huh.   Actually not really different.   Pin placement wasn't that hard today and wind was blowing downwind so I hit a lot of short irons, made a lot of birdies today.   
   
 Q.   What were some of your longest putts that you made?   
SANG‑MOON BAE:   These greens are really good, not really fast so I can hit really aggressive putts.   I think, yeah, that that's the reason.   
   
 Q.   What was your longest putt today?   
SANG‑MOON BAE:   See, not really long, 15, 20 feet but four or five times.   
   
 Q.   Nice.   
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Lucky.   
   
 Q.   Do you like the greens when they're slower or do you like 'em fast?   
SANG‑MOON BAE:   I like a fast green.   
   
 Q.   That's what I thought.   
SANG‑MOON BAE:   But this green, a little slow, I think because wind, wind is strong on this course but not big deal, big difference, I can putt, so putting really good.   
   
 Q.   What does it say about Korean golf that you and John Huh are both in the‑‑  
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Isn't he American?   
   
 Q.   He was born in the U.S.‑‑  
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Just kidding.   K.J. not here, but I think it's better, working hard, so they're going to win soon, with me.   If I win this week or in this year and working hard, I've been working hard.   
   
 Q.   How do you like how your season has gone thus far?   Played well?   
SANG‑MOON BAE:   I didn't play well the last few tournaments, I don't know, but I played well last season, start of the season.   Nothing different, but I had good coach and he working me really hard right now and getting better and better right now.   
   
 Q.   Keegan is currently 12‑under par.   Do you have to be more aggressive or just play your own game?   
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Nobody knows, we have done only two days, we have two days more.   I will play a little aggressive, and if I make a lot of putts, I have a chance.   
   
 Q.   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT