THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 10, 2015
Hideki Matsuyama
Sangmoon Bae
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  This match you had seemed like an easy one, but the important part was the three birdies from Bae and two from you.  
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: Early we were making a lot of birdies but not really getting ahead.  Sangmoon Bae, the birdies on 7,8 and 9 really got us going.   
 Q.  You seemed to have struck up a great partnership.  What was the chemistry like between the two of you and how fun was it?  
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: It was a joy to play with him and everyone was cheering us on.   
One advantage that we had is I don't speak a lot of English, but Sangmoon Bae does speak Japanese, and we were able to communicate in Japanese and that really helped our chemistry.   
 Q.  How much are you looking forward to tomorrow, the singles?  
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: It's going to be a tough one but I'm going to do my best and hopefully we'll bring home a victory.   
 Q.  Just watching the highlights, the reactions, waving to the crowd; how you motional is it for you to play in front of your home crowd?  
SANGMOON BAE: Really happy.  I'm really glad to be here, because a lot of Korean people are coming out and supporting the International Team, it really means a lot.  Definitely we had a really, really good round today.   
 Q.  How much do you feed off of the energy from the crowd?  
SANGMOON BAE: Well, it's a lot.  There's a lot of guys yelling, "Sangmoon Bae, keep it up."  Really it helps me.  Really, I want to say thank you for cheering for me.   
 Q.  Part of a dominating performance this afternoon; how good was the golf you and Hideki played here?  
SANGMOON BAE: With Hideki, it's a great team and we had a really, really solid front nine.  It was great play.   
 Q.  How much fun did you have out here with the crowd rooting you on and supporting you?  
SANGMOON BAE: A lot, a lot of people are coming out and supporting the International Team and that really means a lot.   
 Q.  What does it mean to be doing so much for this team in your home country?  
SANGMOON BAE: You know, every time I hit every single shot or every putt, it's a little nervous because everybody is looking at me and a lot of eyes on me.  It's a lot of nerves but I have to play good.  I'm really looking forward tomorrow to play.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT