FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 27, 2012
Sangmoon Bae
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Wonderful round of golf today, 5‑under 67.   Tell us about the day.   You were 5‑under making the turn, good front nine.   
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Yeah, it was a very nice front nine.   I made five birdies on the front nine.   I made a lot of birdie putts.   So, yeah, it was very nice.  
   
 Q.   You made this South course look pretty easy.   You were 7‑under yesterday.   Your thoughts on how you played this whole course?   
SANG‑MOON BAE:   No, the South course is very tough, you know.   Sometimes it's very tough.   It's not easy for me.   
But this year I'm a rookie, so every time I play, I'm happy.   Every time there are many good players, so it's very competitive.  
   
 Q.   What is the best part of your game right now?   
SANG‑MOON BAE:   I hit a pretty good driver, and, yeah, pretty good iron shots.   Sometimes I miss the putts, short putts, but the putt is playing also pretty good.   So, yeah, I have confidence.  
   
 Q.   You're at the top of the leaderboard.   What's that feel like?   
SANG‑MOON BAE:   I'm very happy.   I will play aggressive tomorrow.   Yeah, I will.  
   
 Q.   The confidence after the first round and the second round and the South course is supposed to be harder, but you took it with no problem.   
SANG‑MOON BAE:   Little worried on the South course, but the South course is very tough and a long distance.   It's a long driver and long not easy iron shots.   But today was pretty good, so, yeah.   
I made a lot of birdies today and two bogies.   So, yeah, I'm happy right now.  
   
 Q.   Getting off to the quick start makes the round a lot easier.   
SANG‑MOON BAE:   I'm winning right now, so my confidence is higher.   But I'm a rookie this year.   So every time I'm happy.   
Well, first time on the PGA TOUR this year, and there are many good players.   I will try to be aggressive tomorrow and Sunday.  
   
 Q.   Tomorrow being moving day, what are your goals for tomorrow?   
SANG‑MOON BAE:   I will stay aggressive tomorrow.   Yeah, aggressive.   That's it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT