INGERSOLL-RAND SENIOR TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 6, 1999
Mike Hill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MIKE HILL: Sometimes I think it's harder to hang on than to go play. I think you
mentally can think about, boy, I've got a five-shot lead and if I don't win -- I think
it's harder. I really do. I'd rather play with an even one-shot, two-shot lead. I did play
wonderful today. I haven't 3-putted all week and I 3-putted the second and 3rd hole, and I
felt like my ship was listing a bit, and then I turned around and birdied 4,5 and 6 and I
made a crucial par putt at 7; and I seemed to get a second wind and a little relaxation.
Then I turned around and 3-putt again at 11. But I came back and made a birdie at the par
3 to get that one back. And then I looked at the scoreboard at 15; decided that I had a
five-shot lead now, and start trying to make pars, and I promptly made a bogey on the par
5. So I'm not very good at laying up. 18, I should have laid up. Gil Morgan said that I
should have laid up there, but I just felt like I had to shoot at it. I had 202 yards, but
I was in the middle of the, fairway and that was the only day I drove it in the fairway; I
would have felt remiss if I would have hit a pitching wedge, pitching wedge to the hole. I
had to shoot at it and see what happened. I felt like I could make 5 from almost anywhere.


MIKE HILL: I made a 15-footer at 4. Made a 6-footer at 5. I made a 6-footer at 6. 

MIKE HILL: I think it's always a thrill, no matter what age group you're in, to win.
And I think that, to me, is why I play. I think that you need to have a goal and a focus
and I play to win. And when I feel like I'm no longer competitive, I probably won't play.
And, you know, I won four this year, and I had chances at a couple others. I blew a
three-shot lead at Tampa and I've not forgot that, either. So I look forward to next year.
I'm going to play more. And I'll probably play more of the regular events, as long as my
putting stroke will hold up. 

Q. I guess why do you plan to play more next year and why did you play more this year?

MIKE HILL: One reason is my wife told my I should play more as long as I have got the
talent I have, and the physical health that I have. She said that it's a waste for you not
to go play and compete. And I have to agree with that. I think that as long as you're
healthy and as long as you feel like you can compete, I think you need to go compete. The
SENIOR TOUR is what gave my family everything we have; so, I think we need to support The
SENIOR TOUR, and Georgia Pacific. You know, it's turned the whole thing around as far as
the quality of the Super Seniors. 

Q. Does your wife go with you fairly frequently?

MIKE HILL: No. That's kind of a -- something of a bone of contention, but I'm the one
doing the traveling and I'll the one doing the playing. Just like here, I'm going to
celebrate with a drink by myself, and I've said that that's a bad deal. I won 18 times and
I think about 10 of those times, I was by myself. And sometimes I think that sticks in
your throat a little. 

Q. You mentioned that this is one of the largest checks you've made on The SENIOR TOUR
out right; is that correct?

MIKE HILL: Yes. I won this tournament in Puerto Rico, and I believe at that time it was
a -- I won the tournament and I won the prize money. I won 300,000. And I won with Patty
Rizzo and I won 250,000 with her. But I believe that probably this check is in the Top 5
of all the checks I've won. You know, I've won a lot of money. I've won over $7 million
out here. I've made some good checks. But this is kind of a feather in my cap. I've only
played 15 times this year; so to come here after a month off and be able to compete tells
me something about, you know, being able to stick in there and compete. 

MIKE HILL: I'll certainly be here.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT