KIA CLASSIC
March 26, 2021
In Gee Chun
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. All right, In Gee.  You're at 5-under overall.  A great up and down kind of round today.  Tell me how you played today.
 IN GEE CHUN:   Was kind of little up and down today, but, yeah, I had a four bogeys, so I little disappointed, but think my game is still strong.
 So I think I'm very ready for the weekend.  So, yeah.
 Q. Very ready for the weekend.  Yes, four bogeys, but also five birdies.  Were any of those birdies particularly good or anything that stood out to you?
 IN GEE CHUN:   Was good strong birdies, yeah.
 Q. Were they long putts or tap-ins?
 IN GEE CHUN:   Honestly, after finish the round I can't remember the hole.  It's tough to tell, so I think was couple of -- I made a good shots and -- honestly, I can't remember.  Sorry.
 Q. No problem.  Overall when you look at the weather yesterday to today, a whole lot better.  Does that help your play at all playing in these great conditions?
 IN GEE CHUN:   For sure.  Like when we play like in the afternoon yesterday it was quite windy and really cold, and today much quiet and good weather.  So was really good for to play golf today.
 Q. And then one last question in English.  You were playing with Michelle.  Good to have her back.  What was it like playing with her and having her back on tour?
 IN GEE CHUN:   Was great.  I had a fun time with her and then we talk about her baby, Kenna.  Her Korean name is Yoona, and we saw her and her grandma on 8, so I just say hello to her.  It was really fun, yeah, to play with her.
 Was good for her, too.  I really happy to see her on the tour again.
 Q. One more in English.  What are you going to work on as you head to the weekend looking back for the last two days and now for the next two days?
 IN GEE CHUN:   I hopefully no more bogeys during the weekend, so I just keep working hard for my putter and just always when I think about my game, when I enjoy to play golf, then I made a good result.
 So next two days I'm just keep my game style.  Then I really humble to within golf course and see where I am later.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT