LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 13, 2018
In Gee Chun
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What's happened the last two days?  
IN GEE CHUN: I always try a bogey-free round, play in the tournament.  But I was a little disappointed when I made a double-bogey on the course but offset, I try to think about the past hit one, because that's not a bogey, so I'm still bogey-free round today.   
So after finish second round, when I made a double-bogey, I tried new mind-set.  I didn't make any bogey on the course.  Tomorrow I will be better and then I will make the bogey-free round.  Unfortunately I made a bogey on the first hole but anyway, I try in mind again, I have 17 more holes again, so I can make the bogey-free round from another 17 holes.  So I try, and then I made a good score.   
 Q.  Your confidence has been very high.  What has brought out the confidence?  
IN GEE CHUN: Honestly last week was help a lot because we made a win and then most people said, ask me, In Gee, you had a tough season by you made a win.  Now we think about you have a good turning point from last week.  I know they wants to help me, and I really appreciate it.  But both sides, I had a lot of pressure from there, if I can't make a good leader from here, I feel I'm more going down.   
But I try forget everything what they said, just trust myself on the course.  I'm really lucky because I can play in front of all the Korean spectators.  Just try and thank for everything and make me more enjoy the golf on the course.   
 Q.  Your speed on the greens has gotten better each day.  Is that just something that you're comfortable with the speeds here or you're seeing it better?  
IN GEE CHUN: I try to make the good speed both on the course but purely I think I still make the good speed during the first nine holes.  I tried on the back nine.  I think it works really well.   
 Q.  10-under through round three, 6-under for the day.  You got five birdies on the back nine.  Tell us, what was working so well for you in the latter half?  
IN GEE CHUN: Honestly, I didn't know I made five birdies during the back nine.  I try just trust myself and try focus on each shot that makes me good score during the back nine and it worked really well.   
 Q.  So seeing that you did so well and you are obviously surprised, what does that do for your confidence level going into tomorrow's round?  
IN GEE CHUN: Team Korea made a win during last week from International Crown.  I think it's a really good turning point for me.  I'm really happy to play in front of all the Korean golf fans.  So you want to say I really appreciate them.   
And I will get ready to play in front of them again on Sunday.   
 Q.  You're playing so well, off a win from last week at UL International Crown.  Are you still feeling that pressure to perform or are you feeling a little better with being able to play in front of your fans and the crowds here in Korea?  
IN GEE CHUN: I think it was really good experience for me before I start.  I was so nervous; I got a lot of pressure.  But we did, we made a win.  So we talked about it with each other, all the Team Korea players, and then I came here.  Everyone said how, In Gee, I think it was a good turning point for you.  I just trust what they said and trust myself.  It works really well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT