KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY GEICO
May 18, 2018
In Gee Chun
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great round.  How did you feel out there today?  
IN GEE CHUN: I felt was good.  I could see the putting lines very well today, so I made a good score.   
 Q.  What was the highlight?  
IN GEE CHUN: I can't remember what number is it, but during the first nine hole.   
 Q.  Okay.  
IN GEE CHUN: Par-3.  It was over the green and I miss chip shot from there.   
But I made a good putt, so I made a good up and down from there.  I think after first bogey.   
 Q.  How long was the putt?  
IN GEE CHUN: It was almost 11 feet, but it was downhill and break was tough.   
So after that I got more confidence.  I try to keep going.   
 Q.  Did you come out here expecting it to rain and get surprised by the sunshine today?  
IN GEE CHUN: When I was just came here weather was not good so we got one hour delay.  So I did treatment this morning before start game, so I want to say thank to the help for me to the treatment guys.   
 Q.  Yeah.  Could you describe what it means to you to be -- you're in the lead.  Could you describe what it means to be in the lead after two rounds?  
IN GEE CHUN: You know, I will try to keep staying focus on my game this weekend, and then see where I am later.   
 Q.  You were the runner up last year here.  Do you feel comfortable on this golf course?  
IN GEE CHUN: Yeah, I really like this course.  I always happy to play here and see all the good people from here.   
Everything was very comfy.  Everything is very comfy.  So I think I can say that (indiscernible) something.   
 Q.  Yeah.  You had said yesterday -- I think you said you weren't feeling right when you woke up before your round.  You felt off, I believe you said.  
IN GEE CHUN: Just some day, you know.   
 Q.  Today did you feel good from the start?  
IN GEE CHUN: Better than yesterday.   
 Q.  They asked you about last year.  You shot 15-under last year here, which normally would win this tournament except Lexi was so hot.  I apologize if she asked you this, but does this course fit you, suit you very well?  What do you like about the course?  
IN GEE CHUN: Yeah, my play was good during the last year, but like play was so hot.   
And then I don't know what part I like from here, but I think all players have same thinking.  They like some course or they don't like some course.   
I really like to play here.  Course is not too easy, so need to think about percentage on the course.  This one is more help to me.   
 Q.  Okay.  You like difficult courses?  
IN GEE CHUN: Only green is little bummer here, but after big rain green getting softer so all the players can make the good scores.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT