LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 13, 2017
In Gee Chun
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: In Gee, fantastic round today.  You were 1-under at the turn, and then six birdies on your back nine.   
What turned your game around that you had that explosive finish?   
IN GEE CHUN: (Through translation.)  Yesterday I felt that I had missed a lot of my shorter birdie putt chances.  Today in the front nine I also think I missed some chances to make some putting chances as well.   
I think in the back nine I kind of regrouped myself and I tried to steer away from thinking about making mistakes or about thoughts about how I really wanted to make those birdie putts.   
So I decided to sort of follow my instinct and gut feeling and let my stroke come naturally, and I think that really helped.   
THE MODERATOR: What was the longest putt you made today?   
IN GEE CHUN: (Through translation.)  I tend to forget the details of my game, so when I got these types questions it's is difficult for me to understand.   
I can't really answer that question, but I hope that shows how I'm really focused at every hole.   
THE MODERATOR: It does show a focus.  In Gee, as we all know, you've had eight Top 10s this year, five runner-up spots.  So close to getting that win.  You have to be very happy with the position you're in going into the weekend.   
IN GEE CHUN: (Through translation.)  Looking back on my season I know I haven't had any wins, but I think personally if I had to assess myself, I had a lot of consistent play.   
I don't tend to read up on myself, the articles in the media, but I was asked whether I was okay with the second-year jinx on the course.  I actually don't think of it as a misfortune on the second year.   
What is different is that last year as a rookie everything was quite chaotic.   
This year, second year, I think I'm relaxed and I have more time for thoughts and whether that's positive sore negative.  I think that given the changes, I'm quite proud of myself for maintaining the scores that I have been showing lately.   
And this event as well I'm kind of playing without any really negative thoughts.  In that sense I look forward to the weekend.  Also I put a lot of meaning in this event, especially that I can have more fun with my fans.   
So that would be what's meaningful for me in the weekend.   
THE MODERATOR: You mentioned your fans.  I don't know who has the most this week, Sung Hyun Park or In Gee.  How much does it inspire you having the huge galleries following you?   
IN GEE CHUN: (Through translation.)  I can't really imagine playing without the fans or the gallery.  I think it would be really boring for the player as well to not have anybody watch and respond and react to your shots.   
I don't ever want to imagine playing without a gallery or fans, so I have to say I'm grateful that the fans are there.  I think for me, when you have fans or gallery cheering you on or when you miss a shot they express their kind of angst, I think that helps me to become more immersed in my game.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  (Through translation.)  If you look at the leaderboard now you can see some of the players that we were watching on with you.  What do you think sets aside the strong players from perhaps the other players on this course?  
IN GEE CHUN: (Through translation.)  I think for this course the par-5 holes are relatively shorter.  I would have to say that this course is better for long hitters.   
I think I'm kind of stuck in between.  So for instance, on No. 18 I can make it on the green in two, but that would mean that I would have to take a lot of risks.   
So I chose to layup my shot before I attacked the hole.  Having said that, also because the course is shorter, of course the shots you make around the green are also important.  Also your accuracy with the shots that you make within 100 meters of the pin I think also are important in determining how many birdie chances you can make and succeed.   
 Q.  (Through translation.)  We talk a lot about how there is a large gallery at this event.  If you have to find an event if the U.S. with a gallery size comparable to this event, which event would it be?  
IN GEE CHUN: (Through translation.)  First off, I think it's really difficult to say definitively that major events have more gallery, the turnout is higher.   
I can't say that definitively because I feel that where the major event is held, the location, is also important as well.  If it's at a location where it is more accessible to fans and gallery, then you'll see a larger turnout.  Sometimes you'll have a turnout lower than here, and sometimes you'll have a turnout higher than here.   
But if I have to pick an event that had sort of the similar ambience recently, I would say it was the event in Canada.  There I got the impression that the Canadians are also really enthusiastic about golf.   
I expect because we're going into the weekend that we'll see a larger turnout.  It's hard to say definitively that majors have definitely more turnout.   
 Q.  (Through translation.)  I think a lot of your fans are really anticipating your next win.  They're waiting for you to make that next win.  You've been runner-up five times this season.  I'm sure that shows you're really ready to win and you're almost there.  At the same time, it shows something must be amiss.  What would you say would be the missing link that keeps you just at arm's length away from winning?  That's my first question.  My second question is going into the weekend you're in a positive position, so what do you think you can do this event to really capture victory?  
IN GEE CHUN: (Through translation.)  I think when it comes to gauging a player's performance there a difference in perspective from the players' side, and also from the fan or gallery side.   
I don't think players really try to think of themselves as being in a good or bad position, because sometimes you may be at a disadvantage position, but then as a player you think you can really create and make your game as the game progresses.   
Sometimes you might in what the gallery or other people think of as a good position, but then anything can happen in the game of golf.  I think that's why golf is so entertaining as a sport for a lot people.   
As you mentioned, I was a runner-up five times, but I have to say, every single time the kind of emotions and kind of feelings that I have are quite different.   
One time I really wanted to pat myself on the back for having fun and doing really well on the day to come up as runner-up.   
On other days I was really frustrated with myself for being runner-up.   
I think that that's life.  You don't always get your way.  Golf is the same.  Of course with every event you want to win, but you can't win every time.  That's kind of like life.   
As a player you have to kind of find the balance between your expectation and fears.  I think this year was really meaningful for me because it gave me a chance to kind of look back on the significance of that.   
THE MODERATOR: We've got time for two more questions.   
 Q.  (Through translation.)  What have you learned this season in term of your game?  
IN GEE CHUN: (Through translation.)  I think in terms of managing my game I have learned something this year, or rather I have felt something this year.  I think compared to last year I'm hitting far better.   
But because I'm hitting far better, I think I tend to be going for -- to hit the ball closer to the pin.  So sometimes, not all the time, but sometimes when there is a miss-shot, that leads to a bogey.   
So I think that after this year, I'm thinking that perhaps I have to go back to when I first started and really go back to my mentality then.   
Also, because I am hitting better, I think I really want to perfect the game.  As you know, golf is a game or sport you cannot perfect.  I think that's kind of been holding me back on the course.   
 Q.  (Through translation.)  I think watching you here doing the interview now and thinking back to the interview a year ago, I can see that you have been through some struggles internally over the past year, and you've also built a lot of experience and character.  You mentioned you came close; runner-up five times.  Of course whether you will make a win this year in the remaining season remains to be seen.  I would like to ask you, there must be some sort of process for you to overcome the struggles of this year and prepare for next year.  Can you elaborate on that?  
IN GEE CHUN: (Through translation.)  I think that I'm really lucky, but at the same time I think I'm a very ambitious person.  I know not everybody can like me, but I still want everybody to like me.   
I know that every shot, eery putt throughout the 18 holes can't be perfect, but yet I strive for perfection.  Because of that tendency I tend to overthink.  In situations like I've encountered in the past year, that means that I have the tendency to become very negative.   
But thankfully I have my family, my parents, coach, friends, who really keep me positive.  I think that they've kind of fed me positive energy and stopped me from going to very negative thoughts.  That's what's keeping me positive today as well.   
THE MODERATOR: Well a lot of positive energy today.  The lowest score of the day so far.  Thank you for your time.  We wish you all the best for the weekend.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT