DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 22, 2021
In Gee Chun
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. In Gee, what a great second round here.  Still the second round and you're still in contention.  How do you feel with two rounds to go?
 IN GEE CHUN:   Actually my shot was not that great today, but so I try to be more patient on the course.
 It works really well, so I'm really happy to make a bogey-free round today.
 Q. Six birdies.  When did the momentum start kicking in for you?
 IN GEE CHUN:   I couldn't play the ^ (indiscernible) very well, as well, so...
 But my I trust my game on the course and I just keep going and then it worked.  Yeah.
 Q. Did you say when you didn't shoot that well, did you have a lot of the up and downs then, chipping putting really saved you?
 IN GEE CHUN:   I think I just I couldn't made the birdie chance on the front nine and I miss couple putts, so, yeah.
 Q. What would you say is your goal in the next two days?
 IN GEE CHUN:   Next two day?  I keep trying to make bogey-free round next two day, and we'll see where I am later.  Yeah.
 Q. Is it easier to try not to make bogey or to try to make birdie?
 IN GEE CHUN:   Honestly, I always try to make bogey-free round.  If I trying to no bogey, then I hope the birdie chance will come to me.  Yeah.
 Q. Does that require you to play to the center of the greens?
 IN GEE CHUN:   Some shot or some pin location, but even I have my (indiscernible) shot number, the distance, I have a chance then I go to the pin.
 But if not or I have a tough lie, then just go center the green.  Even I -- still we have a birdie chance if we make on.  Yeah.
 Q. Is that the way you always play?
 IN GEE CHUN:   Almost.  (Smiling.)
 Q. Do you think that's why you have played well in major championships where par is a good number?
 IN GEE CHUN:   I think so.  When we play the major course we need good game plan, so some course or during the major events I think it work really well.  That's why I had a good result.
 Q. A lot of South Korean players went home after CME and haven't come back yet.  Why did you want to play in this event?
 IN GEE CHUN:   Okay, first thing, I bought a house three weeks ago, so I will stay in the U.S.
 But honestly, my result was not that great at CME, the last event, but last round on Sunday I had a great round, so I wanted to keep practice from here.
 Because if I'm going back it Korea I have to two weeks quarantine, so I just want to really work hard from here and keep playing the events and tournaments.  I want to keep (indiscernible) from tournament.
 Q. Yeah.  How long have you been looking to buy a house and where did you buy?
 IN GEE CHUN:   I bought house in Dallas and it was quite quick, because when we play VOA Sei Young send me a link for a house and I met agent during that week, and finally I got it.  Yeah.
 Honestly, I thought I don't need a house here because I have a good host family in the U.S., so like grand mom, and I always staying at their house.
 But I changed the mind during last year, because if I have a house here it feel more like home then maybe less miss all my Korean friends.  Maybe I have more opportunity to make friends in the U.S.  That's why I change my mind.
 Q. Is your host grandma in Lancaster?
 IN GEE CHUN:   Yeah, Lancaster.  And I have another host family in Palm Springs.  I practice at Mission Hills the last couple weeks.
 Q. Okay.
 IN GEE CHUN:   Yeah.
 Q. On a day when you don't hit it your best but still get very good score out of it, how satisfying is that?
 IN GEE CHUN:   Satisfying?
 Q. You didn't quite hit it your best you said, but you still scored very well because you were patient.
 IN GEE CHUN:   Uh-huh.
 Q. Just as a player still shooting that number, how does that make you feel?
 IN GEE CHUN:   Always when I play a bogey-free round it was great.  Even I believe golf is not only shot game, it's (indiscernible) game, so I know that very well.  Even when I won the major my shot was not great all of the four rounds.
 So I knew that, so I just keep looking the future and stay in the present.  I go where I go.
 It's great.  Always first round is great.
 Q. This course fits so well with your game.  What is it about this course that you like so much?
 IN GEE CHUN:   Honestly, I don't like this type of green, like bermuda.  I don't have great experience.  So I try to work hard this time.  I spent more time on the practice putting green.  I try read the green very and it works really well on the course, so now I can say I really enjoy to play with the bermuda.  Yeah.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT