DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 21, 2021
In Gee Chun
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. In Gee, what a great first round here at Diamond Resorts Tournament of Champions.  How do you feel after a wonderful round and six birdies?
 IN GEE CHUN:   Surely I had a great 17 holes.  I just had one bad tee shot, so I really like my game today.  And I really enjoyed play with Maurice Allen and the amateur.  I had a great round today.
 Q. You mentioned early this week you wanted to play with Maurice Allen and you got paired with him.  How is it now that you got paired with him?
 IN GEE CHUN:   I want to see how far hit than me, but actually he got a little hurt his hands so he couldn't hit far.
 But we had a great time.  We had a great chat.  So I had fun today.
 Q. Did you ask him how he hits it so far?
 IN GEE CHUN:   No, but I said, I keep watching you, how you use your body transition.
 Q. Because he's shorter than you.
 IN GEE CHUN:   Maybe.
 Q. Maybe.
 IN GEE CHUN:   Yeah.
 Q. You bought a house.
 IN GEE CHUN:   Yes.
 Q. Tell me about it.
 IN GEE CHUN:   So I bought house in Dallas couple weeks ago, because Sei Young and I in same community, so when we play VOA she send me a link to a house.  Maybe come to my place.  Maybe we going to have more fun if we stay together like in same city.
 So when I look the house, it was great.  Then I really want to house in U.S. and I can have more good rest in the U.S.
 So...
 Q. So very few people know that you have commuted to Korea since you first came over.
 IN GEE CHUN:   Uh-huh.
 Q. That's not like commuting down the street.  That's the other side of the world.
 IN GEE CHUN:   But I had a good friends in the U.S., even my host family.  So when I had off week I always go there, just see my friends and my host family.
 It was great.  But now I think now I have to buy a house here and then I can make more commitment on the tour if I make a good rest here.
 Q. And your swing looks as good as it ever has.  Ball is higher; seems to be flying farther.  What have you done?
 IN GEE CHUN:   I been working hard.  I know everyone been working hard during the winter, but do you remember when I got interview with you last year?
 Q. Yes.
 IN GEE CHUN:   After that honestly I feel little sorry to you.  I was lying.  I was not perfect.  I was not ready to play golf again with great condition.  But I said I almost getting back, but it was not.
 But this winter I try working hard and then I try to keep listen to what my mind said.  I keep trying talk with my coach and my mental trainer.  We work really well.  Now I can say I almost there, so that's why I can play better on the course.
 It was not the shot problem.  Last year was from more mental.  Now everything is good.
 Q. Confidence is much higher now, yes?
 IN GEE CHUN:   Yes.  So I couldn't enjoy to play last year, even like couple year.  But even still I have a little like mood problem, like my mood is going up and down a little bit.
 But much better than last couple years, so I can make good focus on my game and I can enjoy play on the course.  That makes help a lot, yeah.
 Q. You started off of 10 with a birdie.  Did you feel really good from the 1st hole?
 IN GEE CHUN:   I don't know why, but I was still nervous before start.  So the tee shot was going to the left, then after that, Okay, In Gee you can do it.  Just have -- enjoy to play.
 The putter, I change the putter last year, and it works really well.  So I trust my short game and putting.  It works really well, so it was a great start.
 Q. It was a really good start, and also a really strong finish with six birdies.  Thank you so much and good luck for the rest of this week.
 IN GEE CHUN:   Thank you.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT