BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
August 27, 2020
Tyler Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Tyler, how good was that round out there that you played?
 TYLER DUNCAN:   It was awesome.  It was a grind.  I drove it well and scrambled well, and those were, I think, the two biggest factors that I thought were going to -- you were going to need to perform well at to have success this week.
 Q. A lot of people have been talking about it seemed like a U.S. Open type setup, how it played.  Did it feel that way?
 TYLER DUNCAN:   I felt that way exactly, yeah.  I've played two U.S. Opens so far, so I don't have a ton of experience, but it felt like that a lot.  It's firm and fast, and the rough is long.  That's about all you want.
 Q. What was the most difficult aspect of the game to kind of get not just the wind and the conditions but with the rough and everything?
 TYLER DUNCAN:   The hardest part I think is to get it in the fairway.  You know you've got to get it in the fairway in order to score, so if you don't get it in the fairway you've got to figure out a way to make par, and you've got to leave it in the right spots.  It's just challenging all around, really.
 Q. You seemed to do that very well, only hitting 10 greens.  Did you leave it in the right spot or did your chipping or putting kind of save you a little bit?
 TYLER DUNCAN:   I left it in the right spot most of the time.  9 I definitely didn't leave it in the right spot, but I was lucky enough to hit a great chip and make a good four-footer for par.  But I putted nicely, which helped a lot.
 Q. You went to Purdue; you're used to these kind of windy conditions, Midwestern kind of golf courses.  Does this feel comfortable to you playing here?
 TYLER DUNCAN:   I do feel comfortable here.  It feels a lot like a summer round that I grew up playing.  It's hot, it's windy, it's kind of what you get around here.  My caddie, he coached at Illinois when I was in school, so he's been around here a bunch, and he's from Illinois.  We both feel pretty good here.
 Q. You played here during your college days at the Illini event.  Do you remember much about the golf course and about those experiences?
 TYLER DUNCAN:   I think I played the North Course once and the South Course once, and I remember my freshman year we played over here, and it was nothing like I had ever seen before, that's for sure.  I don't remember how I played.  I'm sure it wasn't very well.  But I remember it being a really challenging test.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT