SENTRY TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 2, 2020
Tyler Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What a way to finish for you, four birdies like that. But I want to talk about the start because you rolled off 12 straight pars. You had a lot of patience out there today.  
TYLER DUNCAN: Yeah, a lot of patience. With the greens being this firm, it's hard to get it close to a lot of those pins. Just a lot of lag putts and made a few come-backers.   
 Q.  Really nice approaches into the last four holes. I think all of them were 10 feet or less?  
TYLER DUNCAN: Yeah, I was hitting it nice all day. It was just tough to get it close there at the start. The last four holes I was able to execute and land it in the right spot and judge it properly.   
 Q.  How much has the last six weeks changed your life with the win at the RSM? Is it like you're playing with house money now? You don't have to worry about getting into tournaments, you just need to go out and play?  
TYLER DUNCAN: It's crazy. I don't even know if words can describe how it's changed, just mindset, life in general. Everything has changed. Obviously all of it's for the better.   
 Q.  There's no way you would remember this, but first tournament of the year two years ago at the Safeway Open, you have a good first round. You didn't win but I think it may have been a top 10 finish, maybe a fifth place, and then your career kind of plateaued. Did you ever think you weren't going to make it out here?  
TYLER DUNCAN: Yeah, I finished fifth that week. It was awesome. I think it was a good start to my career on the PGA TOUR. Obviously things aren't always great and happy in professional golf, and I definitely struggled a little bit. Had to go back to Korn Ferry finals this year, and at that point you never really know what's going to happen. I shot 66 that final round at the TOUR Championship to secure my card, and here I am. Pretty crazy how things change.   
 Q.  4-under today, that's pretty good shooting out there.  
TYLER DUNCAN: I played awesome. I hit a lot of really good shots, and this course is incredible. It's not like a lot of courses we play with being on the side of a mountain and these views, and the greens are firm, so it's hard to get it close.   
 Q.  How was the wind? How were the conditions?  
TYLER DUNCAN: I figured this is probably about the calmest day you guys have here in Maui, so looking forward to some wind this weekend, make everything a little more challenging and make the course play probably more how it's supposed to.   
 Q.  4-under, you're right there. You've got to be pretty excited with the start today.  
TYLER DUNCAN: Yeah, I'm very pleased with the start. I'm coming off a month of not a whole lot of golf. You never really know where it's at, so it's nice to tee it up and see where you're at, and I came out and played well, so very pleased.   
 Q.  Is this your first time in Maui?  
TYLER DUNCAN: It is my first time. I played in the Sony Open the last two years, but this is my first time here in Maui.   
 Q.  Do you have any plans besides playing golf?  
TYLER DUNCAN: No plans. We went whale watching on Tuesday afternoon. That was awesome. That was one of the coolest experiences for me, so that was a lot of fun, and now it's work. I'll probably relax by the pool a little bit, but nothing too crazy.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT