JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 14, 2018
Tyler Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tyler, 8-under, 63.  The last 24 hours you're hanging on the cut line, and then all of a sudden you're tied for third, moving up the leaderboard.  Your thoughts on how you played today.  
TYLER DUNCAN: I played awesome today.  I've been playing really well the last few months.  Got off to a great start on Thursday, 5-under on Thursday.  Just really struggled yesterday; I didn't have much.   
And then today I just came out and I was hitting it great; made a few putts to get me started, and there we were.   
 Q.  You got it to 9-under on the round with a bunch of holes still to play.  How much did that 59 number come into play in your head at all?  
TYLER DUNCAN: I thought about it once.  I knew there were a lot of chances left.  I never really thought about it too much later in the round; it was more kind of in the middle of the round.   
I hit a couple good shots, but it played a little tough coming in.   
 Q.  What was the mindset going out today?  When you're going off on both sides, we kind of wait for somebody who is on that back nine first to make a run at the leaderboard.  That was you.  What was the mindset as you went out this morning?  
TYLER DUNCAN: When the weather comes in, seems like a lot of crazy things happen.  Someone always comes from the backside and plays really well, and I was just lucky enough that it was me today.   
 Q.  Pretty big rebound after yesterday.  I don't know, what was the difference today?  Seemed like other than that last hole there, pretty consistent today.  
TYLER DUNCAN: Yeah, I played awesome today.  I felt calm this morning and got off to a good start.  Hit a lot of good shots that I needed to hit and wanted to hit, made a few putts, and that was the difference.   
 Q.  Now you're just a handful of strokes off the lead.  Having a day like this, what does that do for your confidence?  
TYLER DUNCAN: My confidence has been pretty high.  I've been playing a lot of good golf.  Just been a frustrating day or so throughout the tournament.   
This week I was hoping to put four together and struggled a little bit yesterday, but luckily I made enough birdies to make up for it today.   
 Q.  Was yesterday kind of an anomaly?  What do you credit that to?  
TYLER DUNCAN: It's hard to say.  I feel like last Saturday it was kind of a similar day.  I shot 5-over last week on Saturday.  I was top 15 going into the weekend and kind of felt the same out there as I did yesterday.   
So now my job is just to figure out kind of the different mindset versus yesterday and today.   
 Q.  To kind of maneuver that much in a single day, you know, try to just kind of repeat today?  What do you kind of do?  
TYLER DUNCAN: Yeah, right now just probably do a little -- probably go to the fitness trailer for a little bit and just decompress and go back.  I have a lot of my family here in town.  They drove up from Indiana, so it's always nice to have them here.   
We'll go to dinner somewhere and then try to sleep tonight.   
 Q.  Is this the closest professional event you've played to home?  I know it's five hours away, but...  
TYLER DUNCAN: Yeah, on the PGA TOUR it is.  On the Web we played in Indiana, southern Indiana, so they were able to go there.   
 Q.  I figured PGA TOUR it had to be, but I knew there was a couple web events.  I don't exactly know where they are all at.  
TYLER DUNCAN: Right.   
 Q.  You had a couple 64s last week in Greenbrier.  I saw you peeking on the leaderboard.  We were this close to getting you on the air.  
TYLER DUNCAN: Yeah.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  63, do you guys at all look that when you see a career-low round?  Do you take anything from it or doesn't give you as much confidence as other things could?  
TYLER DUNCAN: Yeah, I mean, I feel like I've been in situations where I'm playing really good golf; it's just the results haven't quite been there.  I've been close and just haven't pushed through yet.   
So hopefully today was round that will just kind of help me keep going forward.   
 Q.  How many family members do you think you have here this week?  
TYLER DUNCAN: I have my wife, mom, dad, two grandpas, and a couple buddies.   
 Q.  Two grandpas?  
TYLER DUNCAN: Yeah.   
 Q.  I read -- it says in your bio, your official bio, that it was your grandpa and grandma that introduced you to golf.  
TYLER DUNCAN: Yeah.   
 Q.  That's sweet.  
TYLER DUNCAN: Yeah.   
 Q.  Is it their first time seeing you play on the PGA TOUR in person?  
TYLER DUNCAN: It is not.  They've seen me play a couple times.  Yeah.   
 Q.  Okay.  But this is probably the largest crowd you've had following you -- out here at least.  
TYLER DUNCAN: At the U.S. Open this year I had a bunch of family.  I had my wife's side and my side both, so we had a bunch of people there.   
Yeah, it's been good.   
 Q.  Quite the journeyman.  We're not supposed to use that word, but seriously, when you think about all the road strips and the grind back in the LatinoAmerica Tour all the way up here.  
TYLER DUNCAN: Yeah, right.   
 Q.  Your first full year on tour, what differences have you noticed about just obviously the nicer travel and your game personally?  
TYLER DUNCAN: Right.  It's definitely a lot easier to travel, as you said.  The golf courses are good.  The Web, there are a few courses on the Web that prepare you out here for sure.   
 Q.  Yeah.  
TYLER DUNCAN: But out here it's just the courses are set up tougher.  I think you have to manage your misses more out here.  You don't get away with as many loose shots as you do out there.   
I think as long as you can control your ball and really know the golf courses, that's the best advantage.   
 Q.  That's the main thing everybody who is in their rookie year on the PGA TOUR talks about, is learning the courses.  
TYLER DUNCAN: Exactly.   
 Q.  How much of a mental strain is that when you're doing all these other things, trying to keep your card, this, that, and the other?  Just literally absorbing the places where you can miss.  
TYLER DUNCAN: Right.  That's kind of what I made one of my main focuses the last I don't know how many weeks.  Just kind of walking around the greens and looking.  I'll do that more than I'll hit shots.   
 Q.  Wow, okay.  
TYLER DUNCAN: My caddie, he's been caddying out here for it 21 years now.  He knows the courses well.  It's always a really good advantage to have him on the bag.  He knows a lot of what's going on and different areas where we want to put the ball.   
 Q.  How did you spell his name?  
TYLER DUNCAN: Henry Diana.   
 Q.  How do you spell his last name?  
TYLER DUNCAN: D-i-a-n-a.   
 Q.  Okay.  Never know.  
TYLER DUNCAN: No, exactly.   
 Q.  So your uncle played as well?  
TYLER DUNCAN: Yeah, my uncle, my swing coach, he played on the Nation --   
 Q.  Oh, so he's your coach?  
TYLER DUNCAN: Yeah, yeah.  I've worked with him since day one.  He played on the Nationwide for ten years.   
 Q.  Yeah.  Won back in 2005?  
TYLER DUNCAN: Yeah, that's right.   
 Q.  Was he the one that harnessed you into becoming a professional?  
TYLER DUNCAN: Pretty much.  I always wanted to be like him.  I wouldn't see him a whole lot, because as you know, life on tour, you travel all the time.  He was living in Florida and I grew up in Indiana.   
I saw him a handful of times a year and we would always work on a few things.  Talk to him on the phone and go about it there, and now we're here.   
 Q.  What did he think about you playing in the U.S. Open?  
TYLER DUNCAN: It was awesome.   
 Q.  Was he there?  
TYLER DUNCAN: He was there.   
 Q.  Oh, my god!  That's cool.  Is he here this week?  
TYLER DUNCAN: He isn't here this week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT