SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 25, 2017
Tyler Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We would like to welcome Tyler Duncan to the interview room at the Sanderson Farms Championship.
Coming here, this will be your third PGA Tour event, your second as a member.  Made quite an impression on your start at the Safeway this season.  Talk about what that tournament was like for you and that experience at the Safeway.  You led I think the first round and outright the next two rounds and ended up T-5.
Talk about that.
TYLER DUNCAN: Yeah, I think it was an awesome experience.  It was not quite what I had expected going into it.  I definitely would've taken that to start the week for sure.
I think it's a huge confidence booster going forward knowing that my game is there and as long as I'm playing applying well I can compete at level.
I think it's always helps to get off to a good start early in the season just for that reason.  Going forward these next four events, as long as I play somewhat decent, I should have a chance.  Just keep building off those experiences that I learned out there in Napa.
THE MODERATOR: Just the experiences you learned in Napa, just talk about that.  You had three full seasons on the Web Tour, and last season played good in the finals; fifth at Boise to advance to the PGA Tour.  Just talk about that that Web.com Tour experience over those three years has done for you and what you've learned to bring to the PGA TOUR?
TYLER DUNCAN: The Web.com Tour is great.  The competition out there is awesome and it's getting better every year.  It really prepares you for this level.
What I did at Safeway and what some of the other guys have done coming straight off the Web.com Tour and winning is just a testament to the Web.com Tour and shows how much it's preparing for this level.
Same thing for the Latin America Tour.  Started off playing down there and I Mondayed into a few Web.com Tour events that summer because they take a little break there.
Without that tour I wouldn't have never even been prepared for those events.  I think the way the system is set up now is really good in player development, and I think we're going to keep seeing the immediate success from players.
THE MODERATOR: Before we take questions, you talk about being prepared.  You just made a major step.  You've been a busy guy getting married just four or five days ago.  Talk about that step and what that was like.  Obviously been a hectic time leading up to the wedding.
TYLER DUNCAN: Yeah, it was awesome having that week off before -- actually two weeks off before the wedding.  Kind of got to wind down after such a long season.
I think I was on 13 out of 15 weeks or something crazy like that.  Just to have those two weeks to kind of wind down from golf and focus on the wedding, it was pretty cool.
And the wedding, having everybody come into town and traveling from all over just to be there for us for the weekend, it was an awesome experience.
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. With the way this wrap-around season works, finish off the Web.com Tour earlier this month, how do you keep your legs under you and still feel good?  How do you feel at this point?
TYLER DUNCAN: I feel pretty good now.  Had those couple weeks off to really refresh.  It was a stressful week leading up to the wedding.  That's over now, so it's kind of a relief.
Now I get to focus on golf these next four weeks and then the honeymoon the week of Thanksgiving after Sea Island.  I get to look forward to play the next four weeks, and also the honeymoon after.  It's kind of like a prize almost at the end of the fall season.
Q. Where was the wedding?
TYLER DUNCAN: We got married in Jasper and the reception was in French Lick, both in Southern Indiana.  Most of our family is there in Southern Indiana, so it was convenient for a lot of people.
Q. Follow up on Safeway.  Sunday's round, what did you learn from that?  How can you take that as a learning tool going onto your next event?
TYLER DUNCAN: It was kind of the same thing that happened in Boise.  Got off to a little bit of a slow start.  In Safeway I bogeyed my first three holes, and there is a lot of pressure.  The wind came up.
I think at the start of the round it's almost like I need to be a little bit more conservative and give myself just some opportunities and figure out how to calm the nerves, because it's a little tricky out there at the start.
After the first three holes I played great.  Even par the rest of way in.  I was very happy with that.
Q. Did you play any golf in the last two weeks?  Just kind of put the clubs away?
TYLER DUNCAN: I played 18 holes at Pete Dye.  It's there in French Lick, and hit balls for or five other times.  That was it.
Q. How do you feel going into this tournament then after everything you've been through in the last three weeks?
TYLER DUNCAN: I feel great.  I've had a couple days to kind of relax and refresh and get the body working right.  Just going to try to get everything a little bit better each day this week and just kind of see what happens.
Q. Does it give you any extra incentive or confidence knowing that PGA TOUR rookies have won this event two of the last three years and now you're one of 20 rookies playing this week?
TYLER DUNCAN: It's definitely promising.  There is hope there to go out, and if any of us plays well, we're going to have a chance to win.  I think that's good for all of us, to know that if we good out and play well we're going to have a chance on Sunday.
THE MODERATOR: Anything further for Tyler?  All right, appreciate your time.  Thanks for coming in.
TYLER DUNCAN: Thanks.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT