MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 10, 2006
Jo'van Adams
Lon Kruger
Wendell White
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
 COACH LON KRUGER:  It's really disappointing for our guys and very proud of their effort and ability to hang in there and hang together.  And again, you know, a battle with a very good San Diego State club right to the wire.  And congratulations to Steve and his group.  They're very deserving championships in the regular season, and I'm sure it will be a good game tomorrow tonight.   
 I'm really proud of our guys' effort and disappointed for them and the result, but I feel great about what they did.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about the effort tonight to come back in the second half?   
 JO'VAN ADAMS:  I think tonight our team came out in the second half with a lot of fight, a lot of aggressiveness.  San Diego State is a good team.  I mean, down the stretch they just kind of got the best of us on the boards, and they really hurt us down the stretch.   
  Q.  Wendell, can you talk about the idea of struggling on the boards late in the game?  They had a couple of second-chance opportunities that they were able to convert.  Cost you guys a couple of points down the line.   
 WENDELL WHITE:  Other than that, I feel like we did a good job on the boards.  But it was came out their way.  I mean I can't really say.   
  
  
  Q.  How did Louis' foul trouble affect you guys tonight?   
 COACH LON KRUGER:  Well, obviously Louis a guy that's been kind of the cornerstone for what we've done all year.  He turned his ankle last Wednesday and he's been battling back from that.  I think that is as probably frustrating to Louis as anything because his inability to do maybe what he had been doing during the year.  He gave it a go and he tried.  And we really appreciate his effort in getting out there and making a go of it.   
  Q.  Coach, can you talk about the situation with Curtis on the traveling call there.  A game of human frailty sometimes?   
 COACH LON KRUGER:  There's a little gap there for Louis to try to sneak into, and he didn't quite get it done.  Whether or not for whatever reason, it was a case there where we got an opportunity to go back in the lead and, like you say, close, but didn't happen for him.   
  Q.  Can you just talk a little bit about Brandon Heath's play down the stretch and how he kind of lifted their team.   
 COACH LON KRUGER:  I thought Brandon made huge plays down the stretch, two or three really big buckets that for most people thought shots.  Brandon makes those.  Our guys were battling defensively and made him shoot relatively difficult shoots.  Brandon is a great player, conference player of the year and very deserving.  Stepped up there when they needed big buckets and converted.   
  
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT