PORTLAND CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CAMBIA HEALTH SOLUTIONS
August 31, 2014
Jeong Jang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Three runner‑ups here, retiring here.   Some pretty special memories here?  
JEONG JANG:   Yeah.   Of course.   My first year I was losing from Kimmie for playoff and just, you know, I three‑putted from playoff.   So I had like bad dream, like three months I remember that.   And that's like 15 years ago.  
But you know, good to be retire here.   I'm never going to forget Portland.  
   
 Q.   How much does is it mean to you to see all the girls that came to say hello?  
JEONG JANG:   You know, I thought it was‑‑ I was crying, like, you know past few weeks, and I thought I'm okay this week.   And I was promising I'm never going to cry today.   
But you know, I was walking fairway and then the guy was announcing about my career.   It was making it kind of like sad.   
   
 Q.   Did you expect that coming up 18?  
JEONG JANG:   No, not at all.   But you know, I had a tough chip coming up.   It was like I had to keep focusing, but it's okay.  
   
 Q.   Pretty special for you and Hee‑Won to both make the cut here?  
JEONG JANG:   Yeah.   You know, it was better than only playing two days and going home.   Just play four days and being more here.  
   
 Q.   What will you miss most about being out here?  
JEONG JANG:   Friends.   Definitely friends, and all the LPGA staff and fans out here and all the volunteers.   
I don't think I'm going to miss traveling, but I'm going to miss all the friends out here.  
   
 Q.   Your daughter glad to see you retire?  
JEONG JANG:   You know what, she told me to retire, so I decide what she want me to do.  
   
 Q.   Was that a roller coaster with Hee‑Won thinking she missed the cut by one and then all of a sudden she was in for the weekend on Friday?  
JEONG JANG:   You know, all her friends were cheering for definitely she's going to make the cut, so we didn't really think about she's going to miss the cut.   We didn't worry about it.  
   
 Q.   What's the next step?   What's your plan after that?  
JEONG JANG:   Going home.   I have 9:00 flight tomorrow, but I'm going to do a little earlier, going on standby and just try and catch an earlier flight.   I just want to go home as early as I can.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT