MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 9, 2008
Jeong Jang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: JJ, nice round today. You're the leader in the clubhouse right now at 9-under par. 66 today.   
 It looked like you had some good 7-irons toward the end of the round. Four straight birdies.   
 Can you talk about your day?  
 JEONG JANG: Actually I've been hitting really good driver. My goal, probably my goal was I don't want to miss fairway because my wrist been hurting like over a year so I play practice round Tuesday and was really long. We didn't play that long like the last couple months.  
 So I was like that's probably my goal and hitting it really good with the driver. So I can hit it like really perfect spot all the time so I can hit a good iron shot and putting is getting a lot better than before so it was cool.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Great. Questions?  
  
  Q. You said your wrist has been hurting for more than a year. Is there diagnosis or anything you can do for it?  
 JEONG JANG: Actually over a year and I went to the hospital last winter in Korea and they didn't find anything and then I went to doctor in Orlando and one in Hawaii in February.  
 He found four little small cysts on the top of my wrist. He said one small, one is between my bones so hurting when I'm moving.  
 So I didn't go to range in like maybe last three months, just trying to keep the focus my short game but I didn't go to range. I'm hitting better than before.  
  
  Q. I mean will you eventually have to have surgery?  
 JEONG JANG: He gave me couple options. He said one of them is surgery but he said I don't recommend because too young to have surgery because golfer, he said. He say not recommended.   
 We tried the medicine. But it hurts so maybe we try different thing. He said maybe you want to rest or you want to take the different golf club, like graphite because I've been hitting steel shaft.   
 He said you want to try the graphite and maybe that will ease it still. I'm going to try the graphite next week. Take the next week off. I'm going to try the graphite shaft.  
  
  Q. You're still using the steel ones?  
 JEONG JANG: Yes.  
  
  Q. Kind of a weird weather day, pouring one minute, sun shining the next. Talk about handling that and trying to keep your focus.  
 JEONG JANG: I have really good feeling with my putter. My putting is going really well. Sometimes wind blow real hard and sometimes stop. Doesn't really bother me today. That's why I shoot low score. My putting is getting really well.  
  
  Q. When it rains as hard as it did, did that just give you that much more incentive not to hit it into that rough?  
 JEONG JANG: It was perfect because I was on the 7th hole and I hit a really terrible tee shot, really straight but I hit it only like 180 with the hard rain. I hoping that it will stop and thank God it stopped. I hit perfect weather with 3-wood and hit it all the way down the low spot and got really lucky from there.  
  
  Q. Are you playing in pain?  
 JEONG JANG: Little bit. But I can't take any medicine because my belly hurt. So I just decide I don't go range.  
  
  Q. So you don't practice after a round.  
 JEONG JANG: I practice short games. I didn't go range.  
  
  Q. When is the last time you had actually gone to the range and hit a bunch of balls?  
 JEONG JANG: I did last week after we finished, hit a couple shot with the tees up but I didn't really hit that many, many balls.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like the wrist is the -- you haven't won since '06. Do you think the wrist is the reason?  
 JEONG JANG: No. No. Actually the players getting really good. Actually lot of good players coming out and better and better so just I think it's hard to win.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Anything else? JJ, thanks for coming in. Good luck this weekend.  
 JEONG JANG: Thanks so much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT