U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 2006
Jeong Jang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Good playing, that's great.  You played yesterday in the afternoon?
JEONG JANG:  Yes.
Q.  How different was the course this morning compared to yesterday?
 JEONG JANG:  I don't know, some reason today more softer than yesterday.  I don't know, it wasn't raining last night, I don't know what happened.  And I think even more tough than yesterday for me.  I had three times a 3 wood.  That was big time, that was hard.
Q.  It's a fine round.  Are you happy with the position in this championship so far?
JEONG JANG:  I like it.  We have to play 36 holes more, and I think I'm ready.
Q.  When was the last time you played 36 holes in one day when it counted?
JEONG JANG:  I think a couple months ago    almost a year ago.
Q.  Where was that tournament?
JEONG JANG:  I don't think I remember.  A long time ago.
Q.  You putted extremely well today, only 26 putts.
JEONG JANG:  Yes.
Q.  What was the difference between today and yesterday?
 JEONG JANG:  I had a really good putt today, but the reason I have a good putt, I had to chip.  And I just chipped it today, and it was just easy to make the putt.
Q.  Looking at Annika, the way she's coming in, she's probably going to come in around 3  or 2 under.  How tough will it be to catch her?
 JEONG JANG:  I think this course everybody can, because everybody can shoot like 80, everybody can shoot like even par.  That's like eight strokes.  That's like three or four strokes, not a problem.
Q.  And the fact that    going back to the 36 holes tomorrow that you have to play, how much of a test of endurance is that on you?
 JEONG JANG:  I think it's all mine, I think, right here (indicating her head).  36 holes is going to be tired.  And somebody I think have to have strong mind.  That's going to be key, I think.
Q.  Do you consider yourself in that category, with a strong mind?
 JEONG JANG:  I'm going to try, but that's really hard, but I'm going to try.  I'm just going to keep thinking about my golf.  Think about my golf and I just want to think about the golf course.  I'm not going to think about other players.  I'm going to try.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT