LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 27, 2006
Jeong Jang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAM WARNER:  J.J., thanks for coming in and joining us again.  A great round out there.  You have a two shot lead right now, 15 under.  Do you want to just talk about your day?
JEONG JANG:  My tee shots were really good today.  Every single hole I hit it really good.  If the tee shots are really good, that makes it easier today, and putting was good too.  This course, that's what I needed.
PAM WARNER:  What are your thoughts going into tomorrow?  Right now you have a two shot lead.
JEONG JANG:  I'm going to go to the range after this and hit my driver and putt more and see what happens tomorrow.
PAM WARNER:  Can we go over your scorecard?
JEONG JANG:  Second hole, I hit 5 iron and 2 putt.

4, pitching wedge, six feet.

6, pitching wedge to 5.

8, pitching wedge to 6.

11, 6 iron, 10 feet.

13, 6 iron, 4 feet.

14, pitching wedge, 15 feet.

18 hole, driver right, and 8 iron from the rough, and bunker shot, 20 feet, maybe 15 feet, missed it.
PAM WARNER:  Questions, please.
Q.  You had a great round except for that last hole.  Psychologically, does that affect you at all or do you put that out of your mind?
JEONG JANG:   Even if I make birdie on the last hole, not really.  That was a good bogey, I think.  (Laughter) not really.
Q.  How important is it for you to win another tournament?
JEONG JANG:  I don't know.  After the win last year, I've been waiting.  My swing is getting better and better.  Just didn't make any putts.  That helps, more than winning a tournament.
Q.  Winning a tournament that's not a major, will that help at all?  They say if you want a major you need to validate that with a regular.
JEONG JANG:  No, I don't think so, just winning.
Q.  You had a really hot start to your tournament in the first round with the six consecutive birdies.  Anything that changed in your game or have you been playing the same game throughout?
JEONG JANG:  I hit it farther than a couple of years ago, and it makes it a lot easier with my golf.  I can hit like 8 irons, not 6 irons, so that makes it easier on my golf.
Q.  J.J., great round.  Those who know Corning, know you birdied one of the hardest holes.  You hit 6 iron.  About how far do you think your driver was?
JEONG JANG:  Thank you.  The driver, I don't know.
Q.  What was your distance to the green?
JEONG JANG:   I had 155 to the hole and my caddie told me to hit the 6 iron.  You can pass the pin and it's going to come back, so I can hit it.  It was a really good number to me.
Q.  Were you leading when you won the major?  Were you leading on the last day?
JEONG JANG: Yes.
Q.  How do you think it's going to feel being in the last pairing going out tomorrow?
JEONG JANG:  I think I'm leading the tournament right now?
PAM WARNER:  Yes, by two shots.
JEONG JANG:  I like to do that, but I want to be a little behind a little.  I don't know, I like leading tournaments anyway.
Q.  Having everyone chase you?
JEONG JANG:  I'm going to be a little nervous because I'm going to be a couple shots leading.  I like to be a little behind, but that's okay.
Q.  Are you a come from behind kind of player?
JEONG JANG:  Yes.
Q.  How do you like this course?  How does that fit your style of play?
JEONG JANG:  It's a tough course.  The scores are really low, but it's a tough course.  You have to hit a straight driver and need to make putts.  It's a tough course.
Q.  18 was the only fairway you missed.
JEONG JANG: Yes.
Q.  Did you feel anything on the range that you had that coming?
JEONG JANG:  I just don't like the 18th hole.  I don't know why.  When you come to the tee box, it looks really narrow, so I just don't like hitting the tee shot.  But every time I hit the fairway I'm happy.
Q.  Did you feel this day was coming?
JEONG JANG: Yes.
Q.  Everybody who has shot a low number this week has mentioned how good their driving was, but yet they haven't put two low numbers back to back.  How important is it going to be    is that going to be your focus, your driving tomorrow?
JEONG JANG:  I think so.  I think more important things are tee shots tomorrow.  I just need to hit the fairway first then it's going to be really good for the next shot.
Q.  Obviously you're not a scoreboard watcher because you seemed surprised you had the lead.  Are there any names of the players who are near the top that you like to keep an eye on?
JEONG JANG:  I played with Brandie yesterday, and she putted good and she hit it good, so maybe Brandie.  I haven't played with Virada before.
Q.  You may be playing with her so you can watch her carefully.
JEONG JANG:  I'm going to be busy Sunday.
PAM WARNER:  Thank you very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT