LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 25, 2006
Jeong Jang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAM WARNER:  J.J., thanks for coming in and joining us today.  Nice round out there, 66.  Talk about your day first.
JEONG JANG:  I had really good tee shots today and that really helps on this course.  It's really tight.  You have to hit it straight.  I hit it really close to the hole, so it makes it easy to make birdie.  I had a lot of birdies.
PAM WARNER:  You had a run out there.  Six straight birdies.  Talk about that.
JEONG JANG:  Almost went to seven, but I didn't make the 8th hole.  Everything was like inside four feet, five feet, so it was really good.
PAM WARNER:  We'll take questions.
Q.  I've noticed a lot of players have gotten off to a pretty quick start.  Is the course playing that easy today?
JEONG JANG:  I'm going to say kind of.  The first nine was kind of easy.  I had under 100 yards for the second shot, so that makes it easy.  And the back nine is hard, tee shots hard.  It's really tight and going like right and left.  That makes it a little hard.
Q.  What happened on the back nine, especially with the double bogey?
JEONG JANG:  I hit it a little right with a 3 wood.  I'm trying to hit a little punch under the tree and it didn't come out.  The third shot was okay with the sand wedge.  And I got like a 10 foot putt and three putted.
Q.  3 putts?
JEONG JANG:  Yes.
Q.  From 10 feet?
JEONG JANG:  Yes.
Q.  Have you ever strung six together before, playing on your own or whatever?  What does that feel like?
JEONG JANG:  No, that was the first time.  I've had five straight, but six was the first time.
Q.  When was that and where?
JEONG JANG:  I'm going to say two years ago at [] Loose Rocks.
Q.  Did you realize that you were sitting on the edge of a course record when you had that string of birdies going on?
JEONG JANG:  Maybe (laughter).  After six birdies I told my caddie, I just broke my record.
Q.  Your record?
JEONG JANG:  Yes, my record.  He said, "Good job."
Q.  Do you feel like you're gaining more confidence in your game as you go along?
JEONG JANG:  After the win everything was a lot better than before.  Like my driver is a lot better, and my second shot and putting is better.  After winning, everything was better, a lot of confidence from winning.
Q.  Does this course suit your game pretty well?
JEONG JANG:  If I hit a straight driver I'm going to be okay.  This course, my putting is okay right now and second shot is okay.  I just wish I could hit a straight driver the next few days.
Q.  The fact that your approaches into the green are that close to the hole, you were setting yourself up very well for that string of birdies.
JEONG JANG:  Yes.
Q.  It seems like there might be a lot of scores that are about 6 under, a pretty jammed leaderboard.  What's your mentality going into the second round if it stays that way, with a lot of people at the top?
JEONG JANG:  I don't know.  I don't know actually like that, but I want to think about my golf.  I just want to hit a straight driver.  I don't even think about I want to make birdie.  I want to hit driver and then have a chance.  Because under 100 yards, that's kind of easy to me, because I don't hit a big driver so I'm pretty good at the short game.  So I just want to hit straight driver.
Q.  Do you pay attention to the leaderboard?
JEONG JANG:  Not on the first day.
PAM WARNER:  Let's go over your scorecard.
JEONG JANG:  First birdie was 10 feet, 7 wood to 10 feet.

Third hole, pitching wedge to three feet.

4, 5 iron on the second shot to 10 feet, 2 putted for birdie.

6, I hit a wedge like 80 yards, whatever, to four feet.
PAM WARNER:  What about 5?
JEONG JANG:  I hit 5 iron.  That second hole I hit 5 iron and chipped on.
PAM WARNER:  So for 3?
JEONG JANG:  I didn't say the second hole.
PAM WARNER:  Let's go back to 2 then.
JEONG JANG:  I hit 5 iron and missed the green and chipped on to like three feet.

The par 3, I hit 6 iron to six feet.

13, I missed it left, my driver.  I punched out with a 5 iron and chipped and two putts.
PAM WARNER:  2 putt from how far?
JEONG JANG:  15.

Then 14, sand wedge from 70 to three feet.

15, the par 3, 9 iron.  It was long, 20.
PAM WARNER:  You made that?
JEONG JANG:  Yes.

16, missed the tee shot on the right with 3 wood and punched out with a 5 iron, sand wedge third shot, and 3 putt from 10 feet.
PAM WARNER:  Birdie on 17.
JEONG JANG:  60 yards, sand wedge to 15.
PAM WARNER:  Thank you very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT