WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 31, 2005
Jeong Jang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAUL ROVNAK:  Congratulations, your first career win, and it's a major, that's pretty good.  How do you feel?
JEONG JANG:  I feel just great and I don't know how to feel more than that.

It's fantastic.  It's really fun.  I don't know that golf could be this fun.
Q.  What happened on No. 1 and what did you hit?
JEONG JANG:  The wind was left to right, to I aimed it like under the TV camera,  left side.  That's my favorite club, 9 wood.
Q.  How many woods do you have in your bag?
JEONG JANG:  I have five, driver, including 5 wood, 9 wood, 7 wood.
Q.  The way you played so well over four days, why haven't you won before?
JEONG JANG:  I think    I don't know.  Good question.  I had a lot of it is because my driver is sort of low, and I hit a lot of drivers, with this wind, and my irons are not really thin.  I practiced and I had a lot of confidence, but I didn't tell anybody, so I did.
Q.  Were you looking at leaderboards?
JEONG JANG:  I did.  I did like, five, six, ten times today, I don't remember.  But the caddie just yelled to me, "Stop it!"  But I'm still going to look.
Q.  What will this mean to your career    inaudible?
JEONG JANG:  I don't think so, like, Grace and Mi Hyun, I'm going to    inaudible?
Q.  Were you nervous at the start playing with Annika?
JEONG JANG:  I'm nervous.  I get up at 7:30, I couldn't sleep last night.  I just slept like a couple of hours, I think maybe three hours.  Get up at 7:30, just hang out in my room, play my Game Boy.  I didn't really notice, but I was nervous on the course, kind of surprised that I did but really nervous right now, but I was nervous on the course.
Q.  What game do you play on your Game Boy?
JEONG JANG:  I play, ESPN Tiger Woods.  I think it helps my golf game.
Q.  Why?
JEONG JANG:  Because I can hit it far and I can't, even like, for sure, like putting lines and everything, that really helps my golf game I think.  I started last year and that helped.
Q.  Did you have any heroes growing up?
JEONG JANG:  I think just like Annika.
Q.  You didn't start playing golf until you were 13?
JEONG JANG:  13.
Q.  And you won the Korean Open at 17?
JEONG JANG:  Yes, I did, when I was an amateur.
Q.  Can you just quickly, that's a pretty quick development.  How did you move that quickly?
JEONG JANG:  I don't know.  I think just I was a good player.  I think I played really good that time.  I had a lot in my junior year of golf.  I don't know.
Q.  Were you good from the moment you started playing?
JEONG JANG:  Yes, I was good junior player and hitting kind of far.  And I had good chipping before, kind of strong.
Q.  Were you surprised not to have won before this?  If you win the Korean at 17, and 18, the Korean Amateur, winning then not and until now, are you surprised at how long you went?
JEONG JANG:  Not really.  Like it's not just me, like everybody there, even Se Ri, she just played a couple years, she won a couple of tournaments and a lot of players are good, so I wasn't surprised.  Just happy.
Q.  Was there anything that you felt was going your way this week, any part of your game?
JEONG JANG:  My putting.  My putting was really, really, good.  It was really good.
Q.  Can you tell us the story from Tuesday night about your putter?
JEONG JANG:  My putter, one day before the tournament, that's Wednesday, playing in the Pro Am, I switched putters and I had a lot of confidence with that, so I could switch, so, why not. I had Callaway.
Q.  Inaudible?
JEONG JANG:  Not really.  I'm just trying to have fun, the conditions, not really trying hard, make par.  And if I have chance just try to make birdie.  I wasn't trying so hard and that's why I have a good score I think.
Q.  The way you approached having the lead, obviously from start to finish, and no one got near you    inaudible?
JEONG JANG:  I don't know what to say, I was like proud of myself, like never going anywhere, just    just not moving.  I think I found out.
Q.  You live in Florida, where are your parents and do you go back to Korea sometimes?
JEONG JANG:  I have two older sisters and one of them still lives in Korea and my dad, back and forth, back and forth, they live in Korea.
Q. What does your father do professionally?
JEONG JANG:  He was a police officer for 23 years, retired now, tough job.
Q.  Do you want any champagne?
JEONG JANG:  No, I'm going to Korea tomorrow so just excited to be going home.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT