WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 30, 2005
Jeong Jang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAUL ROVNAK:  JJ, thanks for coming in and speaking with us.  Another good day for you today.
JEONG JANG:  Thank you.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Your thoughts about the final round and being in the lead.
JEONG JANG:  Yes, I think I kind of surprised myself, like 13 under par, like five shots leading by like 8 under, whatever.  But I think I'm kind of surprised and proud of myself.  I think I'm just going to be nervous a little bit tomorrow.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Can you take us over your score card?
JEONG JANG:  I made bogey first hole.  Hit a big right driver, so I had to punch out, so I make bogey.

Third, I have 8 iron, six feet, birdie.

4, I had 5 iron, three feet, birdie.

7, I had 8 iron, four feet, birdie.

9, I had 52 wedge, six feet, birdie.

12, 7 iron, hit it in bunker short of the green, 2 putt, bogey.

15, I had driver, and I hit bunker my second shot, so five feet, birdie.
Q.  You had a couple of other makeable birdie putts on the back side there that just missed, just misreads or were you starting to feel
JEONG JANG:  I think just the greens got slow with the rain, so I didn't hit it good.  Just I think I putted short, that's why not going in.
Q.  How did you sleep last night?  You had a big lead last night, and how did you rest and were you able to
JEONG JANG:  I got really big sleep, like 11 hours.  (Laughter).  Maybe too much sleep.
Q.  12 hours.
JEONG JANG:  Okay, I'm going to try.
Q.  The greens slowed up today?
JEONG JANG:  Yeah, because of the rain I think.
Q.  Coming in the last holes, were you playing in the rain?
JEONG JANG:  A couple, I'm going to say like seven holes we had rain.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
JEONG JANG:  Yeah, because I got hungry, I don't have any power.  (Laughing).
Q.  You'll be playing with the world No. 1 tomorrow.
JEONG JANG:  Yes.
Q.  How do you feel about that?
JEONG JANG:  I think I'm going to be nervous, but I think maybe tomorrow, playing with Annika, just leaders, that makes nervous a little bit.  Just keep playing my golf and think about the golf course and not think about Annika, I think just try like that tomorrow.
Q.  Can you talk more about that?  Obviously she's been winning a lot more, and her experience on Sunday.  How nervous and how will that affect you?
JEONG JANG:  I was nervous today.  I had a couple bad tee shots, a couple on the beginning holes, but still okay, because I'm not really like a big hitter.  So I think nervous, that's okay kind of pressure.  I think nervous sometimes is fun.
Q.  You've never played with Annika?
JEONG JANG:  I've played a couple of times with Annika.  I played in ShopRite last time, Atlantic City.
Q.  You're one of the few players out here without a logo on your hat, is that because you don't have enough sponsors?
JEONG JANG:  That's not true.  Just not    I didn't wash last night, so I didn't wear it.  My caddie still is.
Q.  Last time you played with Annika, do you remember what stage of the tournament that was, was she leading?
JEONG JANG:  I think we played Sunday I think with Annika.  I think Annika won the tournament.  It was really exciting, like she made birdie and next one we made birdies.  Kind of a fun day.
Q.  Do you remember what event that was?
JEONG JANG:  ShopRite, Atlantic City, this year.  She won that tournament I think.
Q.  Do you feel if she birdies, that will give you an incentive; do you feed off each other when you play?
JEONG JANG:  I think so.  I think when I play with Annika, I didn't really notice.

Just I did try to watch her play because she is No. 1 in the world, so like I can learn from her.  So I'm just going to do that tomorrow and watch her and what she do and the gallery and her playing, I just want to watch tomorrow, not really like pressure, nervous.  Just nervous leading tomorrow, not Annika.
Q.  Do you remember, did she have a lead over you?
PAUL ROVNAK:  It was a three day tournament and she had a second round lead and won.
Q.  Tomorrow are you going to be more conservative?  If you shoot a couple under par, you're going to be pretty hard to beat.
JEONG JANG:  I think so.  I think this course, everybody can shoot like 9 under, 10 under, so I think I'd better play really good tomorrow being like a couple under, just shoot a couple under, not like even par or not like save my score.  I think I need to shoot a couple under par tomorrow.  Everybody can shoot like 9 under, 10 under this course.
Q.  You're saying you won't be intimidated by Annika?
JEONG JANG:  I like playing with Annika.  It's more fun.  A lot of gallery.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT