WEGMANS LPGA
June 8, 2000
Jeong Jang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. The conditions, the windy conditions, the wet conditions, how did that affect your
play?

JEONG JANG: Due to the bad condition, I was able to be more careful what I shoot, so
was kind of concentrating on each shot.

Q. The wind, was it tough to select the right club? How tough was that?

JEONG JANG: There was sometimes wind; there was no wind, and there was downwind. The
wind was bothering me a lot, but later on I just -- I just shot the club with my feeling
and that is what I did with my club choice.

Q. Are you very excited to be leading?

JEONG JANG: I am not excited at all, because I have been in these kind of situations
many times. But if I get excited next day, I don't play very well. So I try to subside my
-- I mean, I try to subside my excitement.

Q. There are a lot of foreign players at the top of the leaderboard. Is that good for
golf in your opinion? Does that excite you to see so many from Japan, the Philippines,
Australia, out fighting for first place?

JEONG JANG: I like it very much because it makes the Tour be more competitive, and from
all of the world, players from all over the world, you can have a lot of different kind of
characteristic from each country, so I like it very much.

Q. Did you have a golf idol growing up? Was it an American player, male or female
player? Someone that really got you interested in golf?

JEONG JANG: I always respected Karrie Webb, because even though she is a woman, her
game is like man, more like kind of male style, and she always have confidence with her
swing and her game. So I have been admiring her a lot since I took golf.

Q. What is your background?

JEONG JANG: When I was 17, I became the Korean Amateur Champion. I won Korean Open in
1997. It is like U.S. Open.

Q. How much English do you know, and what is your favorite word in English?

JEONG JANG: I am not very good in English, but I study every nighttime to improve my
English, and my favorite word is "Thank you."

Q. Because of your success in Korea, can you handle the pressure well leading a
tournament?

JEONG JANG: I don't feel any pressure at all, and leading the tournament helps my game,
my mentality to be more -- to make me more tough mentally. And if I get on the leaderboard
as much as I can, then some day there will be a chance that I can win a tournament. So I
love to be on the leaderboard many time as much as I can.

Q. What has been your goal

JEONG JANG: First, my goal was be in Top-20 of money ranking. But when I begin, when I
started the Tour, I realized that it is very tough to be winning. But now I get more
confidence, so like to win a tournament this year hopefully.

Q. How difficult was the course compared to other ones you have played this year?

JEONG JANG: The fairways were narrow and the rough was high and the green was quite
small -- smaller than other courses, so it was tough.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT