LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 25, 2008
Jeong Jang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ASHLEY CUSHMAN: J.J., thanks for coming in and joining us again today. Great round out there. Another playoff for you, and you finished with your second place finish of the year. Your third actually; right? 
 JEONG JANG: This is my third time in second.
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Can you just kind of talk about your week and your experience here at Corning? 
 JEONG JANG: I tried hard out there today. And especially you know was really tough for me. And then (inaudible). I just putted short and the short putt never goes in. So I tried hard and somebody played better than me so it was -- this time wasn't it.
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: I think everyone in here can agree that your short game was pretty tremendous especially coming down the stretch there. Was that the result of working on your short game with your wrist injury? 
 JEONG JANG: I think so. I spent a lot of time at range before and you need to do the different game more you, know, the short game and putting. 
 And I spend like 70 percent on range. Now the kind of opposite. I spend 70 percent on my short game. So up and down putting real good.
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Let's go over your scorecards, your birdies and bogey.
 JEONG JANG: Birdie on 2nd hole. 2-putted from 25 feet, hit it about (inaudible). 4th hole I did sand wedge, 1 foot. And the 6th hole I hit 5-iron.
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: How far away was your 5-iron? 
 JEONG JANG: 185. And 9th hole I hit 25 feet, 3-putt from there. And 16 I had sand wedge and one, two feet.
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: And the playoff hole; can you talk us through that? 
 JEONG JANG: Missed that right before the playoff with my driver so I don't want to miss the same way so I just kind of pulled it. But I didn't know that (inaudible). I hit it pretty good from there because I couldn't do anything about it from there. And I hit a good bunker shot and there was 150 to the pin. So I hit 9-iron from there and hit the bunker. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: How far was the chip to? 
 JEONG JANG: The bunker shot was about 25 yards. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: When you shifted on the green, how close to the hole were you? The putt.
 JEONG JANG: Just a couple inch. In the playoffs right? 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Yeah.
 JEONG JANG: A couple inch. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  All right. Questions for J.J.?

 Q. . What was your thought then, what were you thinking? Did you feel like you might have just (inaudible) --
 JEONG JANG: You know before the start today and really think about maybe shoot a 3-, 5-under. Even I had the number 5 golf club today. And I know that a lot of finish with a low score, but I tried hard and I keep trying and keep trying. And it just didn't make any birdies. And I still shoot like 4-under and I played awesome today myself.

 Q. You were saying your putting wasn't quite as good as usual today?
 JEONG JANG: Today you know that short. I don't want to left putting short. It doesn't matter if you miss left or right I just don't want to be short.

 Q. Were you surprised because you did dedicate so much more time to that just because of the injury?
 JEONG JANG: You know, my putting getting better. I think just because I'm putting at practice more and I have more confidence and I can roll better. So you know just have a lot of confidence my putting. But just left short. 

 Q. Did the injury wear on you a little bit after the fourth round and even one more hole?
 JEONG JANG: No. The injury's okay. 
 You know, that I told a couple days ago in interview and then it didn't hurt. So feels like I'm getting use to it. So feels like I'm having this you know pain like you know forever. So not getting worse though you know not any different. The weather stay like this then I'm okay.

 Q. Before the round even started Paula Creamer was putting up big numbers early. Were you aware she made a pretty early run and got to 6-under?
 JEONG JANG: No. Actually I saw when she turning on 7 and she make birdie on 7, in the lead. The first, the 7th hole you got to make birdie. So I know that she's going to make birdie. (Inaudible). I didn't really think about her.
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Any more questions? All right. Congratulations. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT