LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 24, 2008
Jeong Jang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ASHLEY CUSHMAN: J.J., thanks for coming in and joining us today. Another great round. You're tied for the lead with your birdie on 18. Can you just talk about that finish and possibly going into the round tomorrow tied for the lead?   
 JEONG JANG: The first front nine I start with the bogeys and finish with bogeys. Back nine I started with a birdie and then finished with a birdie. And I think with the finish with the birdie really, really get a feeling for tomorrow so just happy with that.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Good. Let's go over your birdies and bogeys. Do you want to go over birdies first?   
 JEONG JANG: Yep. 2nd hole I hit 5-iron, 30 feet and 2-putt. And 4th hole I hit sand wedge in 3 feet. 5th hole I hit a 9-wood, 35 feet, 2 putt. 8th hole was pitching wedge and 18 feet, made it from there. And 10th hole I hit gap wedge and 18 feet. 18th hole I hit a gap wedge again and 3 feet.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: And the bogeys?  
 JEONG JANG: First hole missed the fairway really right, just punched out from there, and 3-iron was 15 feet, 2-putt. And 9th hole it was 25 feet, 3-putt from there. And 16, missed the green with gap wedge, maybe 20 yards, and I used sand wedge, and maybe 5 feet with 2-putt.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: All right. Questions for our co-leader?  
  
  Q. Two years ago obviously coming into the tournament round you had --  
 JEONG JANG: I know what you are going to talk about.  
  
  Q. -- a 66, two of the really good scores in that year, you kind of snuck up on everybody this time and not necessarily the front-runner out of the gate, then you went out and shot a 76th in the fourth round. How do you stay away from that kind of a situation? Have you learned from it, a couple years now since that happened?  
 JEONG JANG: From now I think I am just learning everything, the time I get mistake. I didn't think that way, you know, right after finishing the round. But I think learning from that mistake I did. I tried too hard and I think maybe I was, you know, too comfortable with a 3-shot lead. I don't know. I don't think I want to do that again. And I don't think so, and I don't want to.  
  
  Q. I'm curious about with your arthritis and the struggles with that you said you haven't had a chance to get to the driving range as much so your putting game was especially strong. Did that play into today? Were you putting very good today?  
 JEONG JANG: You know I missed a couple short putts. I made long putts. So I guess my putting getting a lot better than before, especially with my chipping getting really good. So I have really good up and down. And if even miss the putt --I mean miss the greens. So you know if I miss the green it's still comfortable with you know I feel like I can make par. So my short game is really getting better. So that's really good.  
  
  Q. The putt on 16, is that the one that went around and stayed out?  
 JEONG JANG: That was 17. I thought it made it. But it went around all the way to the side.  
  
  Q. How far?  
 JEONG JANG: 6 feet.  
  
  Q. Do you feel any additional -- I won't say pressure, but pride maybe in the fact that you are right up there, and you can continue the latest string of winners being countrywomen of yours?  
 JEONG JANG: You know, I heard the Korean women didn't win the last, maybe almost year. That after somebody won last year and then I had a lot of questions about that. You know, players getting stronger and stronger and just hard to win. I don't think the Korean ladies getting, you know, bad, just the whole tour is getting stronger and stronger so it's hard to win.   
 But I don't think I have pressure tomorrow. And I don't think I'm going be nervous tomorrow because, you know, nothing to lose this golf course. And, you know, there's a little difference second place than the last place I think. So just going to go for it tomorrow. We need to make a lot of birdies tomorrow. So I don't think I'm going to be nervous tomorrow.  
  
  Q. You had a lot of success at Corning over the last two years. What is it about this course that fits your game?  
 JEONG JANG: Short iron and putting. And I think, I think pretty much -- I have strong hundred-yard shot. And I think that way. So everything I have that inside 100 and 90 and 80 and maybe I have longer iron maybe 1 or 2, that 13 hole. So that's longest hole we had this week. And everything's inside 100 yards.  
  
  Q. How important was the putt at 14? You were way back.   
 JEONG JANG: I keep thinking I just want to make two putts and I want to leave here. You know, I know we've been there last year and actually I been there a lot last couple years and won. And I think I guess I was there like maybe Saturday same thing. And a couple years ago I was there same thing. So, you know, I know that that really fast putt and I just want to be a 2-putt and leave there.  
  
  Q. The wind has been gusty and kind of unpredictable. Are there particular holes where the wind was a big factor?  
 JEONG JANG: It is a little bit but that not really crazy bad because no different than other place. You know, winds blow real hard and you just need to start like a couple seconds and stop and you can hit after that. But, you know, a little bit windy but that makes really, really tough course because a lot of trees and tight.  
  
  Q. When you were on the fairway, it was either 17 or 18, you did just that. It was like you got to the apex of your swing and you stepped back away from it. Was that what happened; was that the wind?  
 JEONG JANG: No. The guy was moving behind me.  
  
  Q. I saw your caddie turn around. We couldn't tell watching the television.   
 JEONG JANG: I thought it was my caddie but my caddie left already so that was a different guy.  
  
  Q. The fact the conditions-- the scores have been unusually high this tournament compared to the last few years. Do you feel that sort of helps you or hinders you for tomorrow?  
 JEONG JANG: Surprised. You know, when it was that last night for the past year it with 20-under par was winning, and I was surprised, wow, I don't think we're going to be that close. But surprised.   
 You know the weather getting more cold and more windy, and I don't know what is the difference.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: One last question.  
  
  Q. Today looked like the lowest scores were shot early; people went out early. So did the course change as the afternoon wore on? Was it getting tougher to play, was it different than like Thursday when it was real cold or Friday when it started then cleared up a little bit?   
 JEONG JANG: I don't think so, maybe a little different. The green get harder so we can't really get spin on the green. I don't think a lot different the morning conditions.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: All right. Thanks for your time. Good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT