LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 23, 2008
Jeong Jang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ASHLEY CUSHMAN: J.J., thanks for coming in and joining us. Great day out there again. You are really finding yourself up on top of the leader board heading into the weekend. Can you just talk about your round today and your four birdies?   
 JEONG JANG: The last two days I have really, really, really more than like 100 times really hard time with hitting tee shot and hitting actually everywhere. I don't know what to do my driver. I am going to go range right after here. With the terrible driver I played really good. And my putting is getting really good, and my short iron is getting really good so I made a lot of birdie with that.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: You have had a couple great finishes leading up to this week. Did that kind of give you some momentum coming here.  
 JEONG JANG: I think so. And especially my putting's getting better. And know that I have a lot of confidence with my putting. So if you miss the green, you have confidence because you have a good feeling with the putter. So I think so.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Let's go over your scoreboard -- the birdies and bogeys -- starting with your first birdie on 17.  
 JEONG JANG: 17, I hit a driver and gaf wedge from 100 yards, and it was 5 feet. On the second hole I hit a 6-iron almost 30 feet into putt. 4th hole, I hit a pitching wedge.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: I'm sorry, is that the third hole?   
 JEONG JANG: Third hole was bogey.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: What happened there?   
 JEONG JANG: The birdie was first. 4th hole and I hit the pitching wedge was 10 feet. And the 6th hole I hit sand wedge was foot.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: To one foot?   
 JEONG JANG: Yes. And the third hole I hit a 9-wood and missed the green on the right. And I chipped it, missed 10 feet putt.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: All right. Questions for J.J.?  
  
  Q. Notice you have something on your wrist?  
 JEONG JANG: Yes, I been talking about this a lot. I have arthritis. Then I have a small cyst on top of my wrist. Then I don't know about the three of them. The ones between my bones they were a little bit hurt when I'm moving especially when I am making divot. So you know actually this is funny, but I'm getting little use to it, this pain because it feels like I having this pain like forever. So it hurt but I not really getting worse so I'm still playing.  
  
  Q. So it's not really impacting your game that much?   
 JEONG JANG: You know problem I can't go to range a lot, that is the problem. Because I can hit a lot of ball, cannot, especially the short iron. When I am making out a divot it hurt. So I just not going to the range and scared to go hitting range balls. Other than that and I'm okay. Not getting worse.  
  
  Q. So it's matter of just a little bit less practice at least on the driving range?  
 JEONG JANG: Actually that help my short game because I go to the short game a lot and putting a lot. So my short game and putting is getting really good. So I have a lot of confidence. I don't know if that's good news or bad news but my short game is getting better.  
  
  Q. Has it been bothering you for awhile?  
 JEONG JANG: It was. Especially yesterday it was cold weather and I had to put a big heat pad on my forearm. And then if we go like really hard condition on fairway it bothered me a little bit.  
  
  Q. As far as tournaments before this was it an issue?  
 JEONG JANG: I take the last week off, and I didn't hit any range balls last week. So it is better.  
  
  Q. (Question about drivers.)  
 JEONG JANG: I don't know. I don't know. Actually I have no idea. I don't know what's going on with my driver.   
 I don't think that with swing problem because I been hitting the irons awesome. So I'm just going to hit a couple range ball and try to find a good way.  
  
  Q. Were you surprised that the scores haven't been lower than they have? 1-under yesterday and 3-under today?  
 JEONG JANG: Actually, my driver little better than yesterday so I hit more fairway. So I can hit more fairway from the second shot. And so know a little surprised the scores like higher than last year. So I'm a little surprised. Maybe just because windy and cold weather. But little surprised at the high scores.  
  
  Q. Was the wind a factor?  
 JEONG JANG: It was. A good weather but a little more windy and tight course and more windy is tough.  
  
  Q. Feeling good about where you stand going into the weekend?  
 JEONG JANG: You know, what about the driver I just really happy I made the cut. (Laughing). And I can go for the next two days and nothing to lose. So I have confidence. So see what happens.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Any more questions? All right. Thanks for your time and good luck.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT