MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 10, 2008
Jeong Jang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE: JJ, you had two Top Ten finishes so far this year. Your last one was 2006. You're only three strokes back. Are you feeling good entering tomorrow?  
 JEONG JANG: I played with Annika today. She hit great driver and shot. She had great, great putters. So I just try really hard tomorrow and see what happens but she has a big day. I want to do the best I can do. Best to her.  
  
  Q. Was that a nervous bogey on the first hole or --  
JEONG JANG: You know, actually I don't want to miss the left side and I'm going to hit it with a big hook, like before you hit you're thinking about too much left side. Okay, I'm going to hit it ease, not swinging too hard so I hit it really thin driver. I had a 5-iron. First time I hit a 5-iron on that hole and usually I hit 9-iron. So it wasn't nervous at all.  
  
  Q. Did you feel like in your group that everyone was looking at the other two people and you were just kind of playing?  
 JEONG JANG: You know, actually I was -- I was talking about the first hole. I say to my caddy like, "Who has more gathering, you think?" He said, "Don't think about it." "I just want to know like what are you thinking?" He said, "I don't know. They both have a lot together."  
 But I think I had a great time with the galleries. Don't matter who they're cheering for. I had a great time.  
  
  Q. Did you think and were you going to have to catch Annika because she doesn't come back? Did you play as though you had to catch her?  
 JEONG JANG: I think so. Honestly, I'm going to try tomorrow and best I can but I don't think she's going to be back. I don't think -- she's going to be go for it but she's not going to back down like make more birdies. So I have to make more than her but see what happened. I have really good time tomorrow.  
  
  Q. How surprised were you to see her hit into the water in 18?  
 JEONG JANG: I didn't really think about it. I didn't see it. People were watching it, really quiet and I thought maybe she hit the left side, and I saw it go in the water. I was really surprised. And I heard she didn't make any bogies last three days so I was really surprised.  
  
  Q. Is she playing like she played three years ago now?  
 JEONG JANG: Last time I guess, last time I played with her it was when I won the British Open and we played together on Sunday. And she's coming back. I think she's almost there. She's awesome.  
  
  Q. Was that the last time you recall being paired with her?  
 JEONG JANG: I think so. That was British Open, '05.  
  
  Q. So you have a good track record of playing with her on Sunday and winning.  
 JEONG JANG: But I was leading, though (laughter). I was leading by four. That was opposite.  
  
  Q. How did the wrist feel today?  
 JEONG JANG: Actually pretty good at the beginning of the front 9. The back 9 was really cold and my top of my arms were cold and the last -- I hit in the rough on the right side and I missed the fairway. I think I took a couple practice swing was really hurt so I was scared a little bit.  
  
  Q. Looks like you have more tape on it today than you did yesterday.  
 JEONG JANG: I only have this tape at the beginning of the day and then I played -- got warmed up a little bit, I take it off. It was really cold so I did have more tape for support.  
  
  Q. So since it's so cold out there I guess you're not going to break out the pink flip-flops to go out on the putting green?  
 JEONG JANG: No. No. No. Actually it was perfect time to practice yesterday when I was done and raining and stop. So I went back to hotel and come back. I don't think I'm going to do that today.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Any other questions for JJ? Thank you.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT