KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 15, 2014
Kathleen Ekey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Do you recall liking the course, and did you feel good coming in here?   
KATHLEEN EKEY:   Yeah, I think this is one of the best golf courses we come to all year.   I think most of us enjoy playing here and getting to come here.  
I know when we lost the tournament and got it back, that was my rookie year.   I remember everybody was super excited to get to come back.   I definitely agree.  
It's the great golf course, and the people here are awesome.   Definitely a spot we look forward to coming back to every year.   
   
 Q.   How did the wind change things in the afternoon?   Obviously the front wave didn't have to deal with that.   Did it get tougher as the day went on?   
KATHLEEN EKEY:   Yeah, you know, I know it was a little windy this morning.   There was a bit of a breeze, but it definitely kicked up this afternoon.  
Really something you had to pay attention to.   It got swirly at times.   Just had to be patient with it, so...  
   
 Q.   You hung in there pretty good with it.   Did it take a lot of concentration to fight it?  
KATHLEEN EKEY:   I live in south Florida now, and we have a lot of wind so I'm used to it.   I enjoy playing in the wind.   I think you just have to go into it knowing, Hey, I might get it wrong, but I'm going to try to commit to something.   If it's right, great.   If not, that's just the nature of the beast.  
I think my brother and I did a really good job out there today getting a number, talking about what we thought it was playing, and just going with it.   I hit the ball really, really well today, and so it was good.  
   
 Q.   How do you sort of explain coming in so cold and going out and just...  
KATHLEEN EKEY:   I've been super frustrated because I've felt like I've been playing way better than I've been scoring and just haven't really put things together.   Historically with me that's kind of how it goes.   You just have to be really patient, even though you want to scream, and you come out of the dark tunnel.   
 But that's golf.   That's just how it is.   I've had a stress fracture in my wrist, so we've had a lot of things going on.  
   
 Q.   That you were sort of playing through?   
KATHLEEN EKEY:   Yeah.   It's getting a little better, but...  
   
 Q.   Still feel it?  
KATHLEEN EKEY:   Yeah.   We got a tape job over there.   It's all right.   I say if I'm still breathing, I'm all right.   My college coach used to say that:   Are you guys still breathing?   If you're breathing, you're okay.  
   
 Q.   Do you have to get treatment on it?  
KATHLEEN EKEY:   Yeah, the guys in the trailer from Top Tier Sports are awesome.   They probably see more of me than they would like.   
   
 Q.   Is your brother your full‑time caddie?  
KATHLEEN EKEY:   He is.   
   
 Q.   How long has he been doing it?  
KATHLEEN EKEY:   This is his first year out here.   My dad caddied for me for two years, 2011 and 2012 and kind of half of last year.   Byron has been out here all year with me this year.  
It's really good.   We've been close since we were little.   He's my best friend, and I think he would say the same of me.   It's awesome that I can ever have him out here.  
   
 Q.   Big or little brother?   
KATHLEEN EKEY:   Little brother.   Three years younger.  
   
 Q.   Although you've been swinging with confidence through the season even thought results haven't been there, did you go through any kind of crisis?   
KATHLEEN EKEY:   Yeah, well, it's hard sometimes.   You feel like you're doing the right things, and it's hard not to question yourself when you don't see the results you want to see.  
But, you know, I just try to stay patient and stick to my basics.   I've been working are really hard, so it's nice to see that it kind of made a turn this week.   Especially yesterday.   Really started to hit it well yesterday.  
You know, golf, that's just how it works.   It's crazy.  
   
 Q.   You have a coach?   
KATHLEEN EKEY:   I do.   His name is VJ Trolio.   He is teaching out of Old Waverly in West Point, Mississippi.   I'm really excited.   He's going to be out next week in Alabama, so...  
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)   
KATHLEEN EKEY:   Yeah, it's great.   I love obviously going Alabama, but Mobile is a great tournament.   Really good golf course.   Really looking forward to it.  
   
 Q.   Have you noticed the resurgence of Americans not only at the top of the rankings, but the leaderboard each week?  
KATHLEEN EKEY:   Yeah.   It's really good to see, I think.   We have a lot of really good talent, and I think it's really good for women's golf.   I think women's golf and the LPGA are headed in a really good direction.   Obviously it's really good to see the Americans play well.  
   
 Q.   If I read your numbers up there, five birdies and bogey today?   
KATHLEEN EKEY:   Yep.   
   
 Q.   Walk me through some of your highlights today.   
KATHLEEN EKEY:   I mean, I hit a lot of really good shots and gave myself a lot of chances.   I think that was the key today.   Trying to think.  
   
 Q.   You want the putt back o 15, the birdie putt?  
KATHLEEN EKEY:   The birdie putt?   I hit a good putt.   Yeah, just probably didn't give it ‑‑ just didn't play enough break.  
But I gave myself a lot of chances.   Even on the back nine.   I think I only made one or two birdies on the back nine.   I don't even know.   I guess I made one.   
But I felt like I had a chance on every hole.   I hit a lot of really good putts.   Unfortunately everything was kind of right near the edge if it wasn't lipping out.  
That's good.   I wish they would have gone in, but I was hitting good putts.   That's all you can do.  
   
 Q.   Is the front or back nine playing tougher?  
KATHLEEN EKEY:   I don't know.   I think they're both tough.   It's a good golf course.   It's a ball‑striker's golf course.   You have to hit good shots and put yourself in the right position.  
As we talked about, the wind made it even more interesting today.   Yeah, you just to have take that shot by shot.   
   
 Q.   You talked about being super frustrated not scoring as well as you thought you should be.   Was it a matter of not making putts?  
KATHLEEN EKEY:   I haven't hit it as well as I'm used to hitting it.   I wasn't getting it close enough to the hole.   When I was, I was lipping out.  
It was just kind of one of those things where nothing was really falling into place.   Really hard not to get frustrated.   I tried to stay patient and I have a really good attitude, but when it goes like that for, you know, a few weeks in a row, it's hard.  
I was definitely down on myself.   My brother kept saying, Hang in there, sis.   We've been working at it really hard, so it's nice to see some results.   
   
 Q.   I was going to ask, when you have those, how cool is it to have your best friend right there on the bag?  
KATHLEEN EKEY:   It is.   He's super encouraging.   I'm just lucky to have him.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT