JAMIE FARR TOLEDO CLASSIC PRESENTED BY KROGER, OWENS CORNING AND O-I
August 10, 2012
Kathleen Ekey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We are joined by Kathleen Ekey in the interview room.   Talk us through your day, what you thought you did well today.   
KATHLEEN EKEY:   I grew up on these kinds of golf courses.   I really enjoy it.   Actually the last time I played here was in high school.   My senior year we played a tournament here, and I actually won, so maybe that's some good mojo, I don't know.   
It's a great golf course.   It's just great to be able to spend some time in Ohio and play well, too.   
THE MODERATOR:   Take me through your round today.   What went well for you?   
KATHLEEN EKEY:   You know, I woke up yesterday morning with a really, really sore back.   My whole lower back just felt like it was all sitting on each other.   I woke up and I said, Oh, dear.   It was something I never really experienced before.   I just tried to be calm, not freak out about it.   
Yesterday I just tried my best to get through it.   I just tried not to think about it.   But I could tell it was affecting some of the shots that I was hitting.   So I was really proud of myself that I shot 2‑under yesterday and kind of got through it.   
I went to the fitness trailer after I got done last night, stretched it out a little bit.   Still wasn't really feeling that great.   Kind of same thing when I woke up this morning.   Got to the fitness trailer at 6:00 before I went to go warm up.   Got it taped up a little bit.   Feeling just a little bit better.   
So I was just trying to make sure I kind of stayed within myself and didn't over‑swing because it doesn't feel real good when I hit the ground right now.   So I'm just really happy that I kind of stayed within myself and hit a lot of good golf shots.   
I really relied on my short game, my putting, to kind of carry me through.   Luckily, you know, I had it rolling pretty good out there and was able to make enough putts to kind of make it worth it.   
THE MODERATOR:   You got your start on the Symetra Tour.   Can you tell me a little bit about how that helped you grow.   
KATHLEEN EKEY:   I played two full seasons on the Symetra Tour.   The first year was a bit of a disappointment.   I was working on some things.   It was frustrating because I knew I was better than I was playing.   Then I kind of went out there and started to play a lot better, was able to get my card through the Money List to come out here to play, which is a dream come true for me.   I wanted to play on the LPGA since I was a little girl.   I never really remember wanting to do anything else but play on the LPGA.   That was obviously awesome.   
I think the Symetra Tour prepared me well really to come out here and compete.   I struggled a little bit this year, but haven't felt like it was too far off.   It's really satisfying to put it together for a couple days this week so far.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Kathleen.   
   
 Q.   When you were talking about playing in a high school tournament here, were you talking about this particular course or Toledo in general?  
KATHLEEN EKEY:   This particular course.  
   
 Q.   What year would that have been?  
KATHLEEN EKEY:   It was a long time ago.   It's getting to be a long time ago.   Flying by.   
It would have been fall of 2004.   
   
 Q.   What school did you attend?   
KATHLEEN EKEY:   Walsh Jesuit High School.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
KATHLEEN EKEY:   You know, I started one week before the Australian Open.   I played another tournament in Australia.   I was 3‑under through 8, then I kind of stumbled coming in.   I let it really bother me, which I don't usually let things get to me like that.   
You know, I think I just started overthinking everything.   I started getting frustrated, then I started trying too hard.   It's like this vicious cycle that you have to try to get yourself out of.   
But, you know, all year I haven't felt too far off.   I just haven't been able to quite put it together.   It's like one day my ball‑striking is there, one day my short game is there.   I've been working really, really hard on my short game and my putting.   
You know, it just hasn't quite gelled all together at all this year.   Then the last two days it's seemed to come together.   I've been able to make some putts, make some birdies.   
Really, I'm not hitting it as far as I usually do the past two days.   I can't swing as I normally do.   But it's a testament to how important your short game and putting are.   Maybe I haven't hit it the way I'm used to hitting it, but I've been able to put it together because I've made some putts.   Really that's the most important thing, and I just haven't been doing that this year.   
THE MODERATOR:   Kathleen, thank you.   
KATHLEEN EKEY:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT