U.S. SENIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 30, 2018
Sean Knapp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You must be a little disappointed, but you played against a guy that's --
SEAN KNAPP: How is this his first win?  Anybody that's played amateur golf at a high level has known Jeff Wilson.  He's a superstar.  You know, you did not see a senior golfer out there.  You saw one of the best amateur golfers in the country.  I knew it was going to be an uphill battle.  We got out ahead of him, and that's what champions do.  They respond.  He plays 3-under, and he probably could have made that to be 4-under on the last few holes.  I wish him the best, and I'm so happy for him.  Obviously I'm a little disappointed, but I'm happy to have made it this far.
Q. You got it back to square, got it 1-up on 9, he three-jacks it on 9.
SEAN KNAPP: He comes right back at 10, I come right back at 11.  We were playing great golf.  I make a great save on the next hole.  You know, what is there to say?  Sometimes you lose.  I don't think that there's any offense to that.  You know, how many players do you take in this situation and this environment under this course setup and tell them, take even par, 1-under around here and then you lose 2 & 1?  I think that's more of a testament to Jeff.  I gave him what I could give him today.  I wasn't as tight, but I was pretty tight.  I think all the credit goes to him.
Q. Who did you hear from last night?  Nathan I'm sure?
SEAN KNAPP: Not enough people.  I needed to hear from higher powers in order to win this match, and I think I heard from that, but it just didn't -- it wasn't meant to be today.
Q. Overall, 11 and 1 now in match play at this event.  Your overall week, you get back to the final, which is not easy to do, you beat USGA champions --
SEAN KNAPP: Well, I'm very thankful.  I'm blessed, and this has been a year that's been great.  You know, I'm going to get to do some great things next year.  Maybe not as many as Jeff will.  But I don't have any regrets.  You know, sure, it's a little painful.  It hurts right now.  I'm not happy and all that stuff.  But at the end of the day, I just look at golf, and I've seen enough golf, and sometimes you lose and sometimes you're beaten, and I was beaten today, and all the credit to Jeff again.
Q. You're still going to get some nice exemptions.  You're in the Amateur, now you're in the U.S. Senior Open.
SEAN KNAPP: Yeah, we're going to work on the USGA when I get done on those redundancy exemptions.  I want more.  That will make me smile if they could say, well, we're going to do this.  But I'm happy with what I got.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT