U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2012
Sean Knapp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How are you doing? 
SEAN KNAPP:   I'm doing spectacular.

Q.   Tell us about your day. 
SEAN KNAPP:   Well, you know, anytime you get a chance to play with Tom Watson, it's a special day, special environment here, having made the cut at the Open.

Q.   Your round, how did that go? 
SEAN KNAPP:   It was pretty exciting to start.   Tom came right out of the gate and holed one out of the bunker for eagle.   We had a about 20‑footer and knocked it in right on top.   So that was fun, and there was a lot of good golf for five or six holes, and then I ran into a series of bogeys.   And at the end of the day, he was playing real well.   I just wanted to stay out of the way.

Q.   That golf course does get a little bit sideways or on the rough side of the hole. 
SEAN KNAPP:   Course was in perfect condition.   I thought it was a little bit more gettable than yesterday, actually.   And I didn't keep the ball in play as well as I have in the past two days.

Q.   You're still on course for your goal‑‑
SEAN KNAPP:   Yeah.

Q.   ‑‑ of low amateur.   Are you excited to come out and get after it again? 
SEAN KNAPP:   That's the one nice element of shooting a bad score today that I haven't blown myself out for that.   I need to get to the range, get a few things worked out, and come out and get the job done tomorrow.   I'm probably a couple behind now after today.

Q.   People are paying attention at home.   I heard you on were on a radio show this morning. 
SEAN KNAPP:   It was funny because it was about 7:30 last night and I saw Mr. Watson's name somewhere around me on the leaderboard.   I said to my wife, might be about time to go see who we have for tomorrow.
And before I could get to the computer, I heard all this beeping noise, my phone blew up.   And suddenly I had like 82 text messages.   I just put it down, and I said I don't even have to look.   I know who I'm playing with.   It was a real treat.   Mr. Watson is just a special person.

Q.   Had you met him before, Sean? 
SEAN KNAPP:   No, I had not.   So that was a real treat.   As you guys focused on earlier in an article, he's a real ambassador for the game.   Couldn't have made me feel better out there.   I wish I would have made me feel better out there.

Q.   Of all the things that you've done in your career, which have been very laudable and outstanding, where does playing with Tom Watson fit in? 
SEAN KNAPP:   Probably right near the top.   I've played with Tiger in the U.S. Am head to head.   I've played Luke Donald head to head.   Both of those guys weren't pros then.   They weren't Tiger, and they weren't Luke although you could see that they certainly had that potential.   I played with Mr. Palmer, but his career was nearing an end at that point.   He wasn't playing competitively on the Tour.
So when you combine the fact that you're playing with one of the greatest players ever and in a Major Championship venue, you know, it's right there.   It's at the top.

Q.   There's two college guys playing for the final in the APL.   So probably made your decision good, right? 
SEAN KNAPP:   I don't think there was ever a real big decision on that one.   Thanks, guys.

Q.   Have you played at Oakmont? 
SEAN KNAPP:   I'm not an Oakmont member.   I live probably as close as we're standing to the 9th green from the front entrance.   I've been a life‑long member somewhere else until I left there a few years ago.   So not a member at Oakmont.

Q.   I'm sure you've seen Oakmont a couple times? 
SEAN KNAPP:   Yeah, more than I'd like.   That place has a way of beating you up too.

Q.   Were some of the texts that you got from your basketball team? 
SEAN KNAPP:   Yes, they were.   Actually, they said it's time to get off the computer and diagramming plays, get to bed.   So I listened to them.

Q.   Perfect.   Thanks, Sean. 
SEAN KNAPP:   Appreciate it.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT