NHL DRAFT
June 27, 2014
Nicholas Ritchie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How does it feel?
NICHOLAS RITCHIE:   Unreal.   Yeah, great feeling.   You know what, obviously I think they knew they liked me, but to be honest, I thought I was sitting there longer than I was going to, but now that I'm picked, it feels great, and a great team in Anaheim.

Q.   (Inaudible). 
NICHOLAS RITCHIE:   Yeah, it was great.   I mean, shaking those guys' hands, it was kind of nerve wracking, but it's finally sinking in, and it feels great. 

Q.   (Inaudible). 
NICHOLAS RITCHIE:   Yeah, a few spots ahead of him, so feels good, but he's happy for me, and we're always helping each other.

Q.   What do you know about the organization?
NICHOLAS RITCHIE:   They're a big team, and they had a really good team last year.   Could have went a little farther in the Playoffs, went to Game 7 with the Stanley Cup champions, so it's a pretty good team over there.

Q.   (Inaudible). 
NICHOLAS RITCHIE:   I think so.   I think they like big guys, and I obviously bring that, so I think I fit in pretty perfect with them.

Q.   (Inaudible). 
NICHOLAS RITCHIE:   Yeah, it's been great, a couple up‑and‑down years and stuff, but last year was definitely my best year, and now to be drafted, I've got a lot to go with that.

Q.   How much credit do you give to (inaudible)? 
NICHOLAS RITCHIE:   Yeah, it was great.   I mean, playing along with those two guys, we had instant chemistry.   The second half of the year headed into the playoffs we played really well, and our team started to play well once we were, and everyone kind of followed. 

Q.   Did they talk to you at all about the expectations going into the season and training camp? 
NICHOLAS RITCHIE:   Who? 

Q.   The Ducks.   Have they said anything to you?
NICHOLAS RITCHIE:   No, I haven't really talked about that.   They'll probably tell me at a later point, later on today probably. 

Q.   How does it feel to be a Duck?
NICHOLAS RITCHIE:   It feels great.   I'm really excited, and they have a great team, and I'm hoping to make that team next year.

Q.   Walk us through today, emotions from excitement to anxious?
NICHOLAS RITCHIE:   Yeah, I woke up this morning and time was going pretty slow, and I finally got here and was sitting there maybe a little longer than I thought I was going to, but now that I am drafted, especially to Anaheim, it's great, and I can't wait to get things going.

Q.   Who did you have with you?
NICHOLAS RITCHIE:   I had my brother and my parents and some aunts and uncles there, and my grandmother, so it's been a fun week.

Q.   Tell us about your career in?
Peterborough and what the OHL has meant to you?
NICHOLAS RITCHIE:   Yeah, it's been great in Peterborough.   A couple up‑and‑down years, but this past year was really good for me and the team, and finally made the playoffs and kind of showed what we had.   It's definitely a franchise that's on the upswing.

Q.   To share this experience with a teammate like Eric Cornel, what does it mean to have teammates like that around you?
NICHOLAS RITCHIE:   Yeah, we've played together for a long time since we've been in Peterborough, and he's a great player, and hopefully he'll get picked soon and we can share this experience for the next couple weeks or so. 

Q.   When you heard about the Kesler trade this morning, did you think you might be his teammate? 
NICHOLAS RITCHIE:   No, I didn't even think about that.   I had heard about it, but no, not really. 

Q.   What player do you want to emulate as you go forward?
NICHOLAS RITCHIE:   I think like Lucic.

Q.   How do you feel being the first player to wear the new jersey?
NICHOLAS RITCHIE:   Feels great.   I didn't even notice, but I guess they told me, and it's a pretty nice jersey. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT