NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 15, 2013
Jeremy Lin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How do you practice for this?
JEREMY LIN:   I don't know if I'm going to practice.   I don't know how I would practice, to be honest. 

Q.   What do you think about your popularity in China?
JEREMY LIN:   I'm thankful for all the people who took time out of their day to check up and see how I'm doing, how the team is doing.   I try not to take that for granted and to be really thankful for all the people supporting me.   I'm thankful that the game is growing, and the league is growing in China.   Every year I go back, I see how big it is over there, and how much they truly support the league and the team. 

Q.   Who do you think will win the Three Point Contest? 
JEREMY LIN:   I have two really good friends in it, and I can't pick between the two because I've spent my rookie year shooting around with Steph every day, and I spent my second year shooting around with Novak every day.   And to see those two people shoot is incredible.   People don't understand how good they are.   Especially with no defender in their face, they're pretty much going to make it every time. 

Q.   Can you talk about James Harden, what's it like playing with him?
JEREMY LIN:   He's a great guy.   We've been able to develop a friendship off the court.   He's an All Star.   In my opinion he's a superstar.   And I think that he's absolutely impressive. 

Q.   What's it like this weekend being a part of this whole All‑Star Weekend?
JEREMY LIN:   It's great.   It's a lot of fun, just to be able to play host with the team coming to Houston. 

Q.   We know Michael Jordan's birthday is on Sunday, we know he was a hypercompetitive guy.   But if there was one thing Jeremy Lin would beat Michael Jordan, what would it be in?   Absolutely anything?
JEREMY LIN:   Are you talking about on the court or just anything? 

Q.   I'd go anything.   If you want to go on the court, that's up to you. 
JEREMY LIN:   I would say video games.   I'd say there's no way he can touch me in video games.

Q.   Any game in particular?
JEREMY LIN:   Halo 3.   No chance.

Q.   Second question, Lent started on Wednesday,   they give up something they want to give up for 40 days.   What is something you couldn't give up for 40 days?
JEREMY LIN:   Something I can't give up, probably just like diet.   Some of the things I love eating.   I know some people eat less. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT