NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: ASTROS v CARDINALS
October 21, 2004
Tony La Russa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Suppan is 1-4 against the Astros this year but the last two games were 19 hits, 13 runs.  Any thoughts about that?
 
TONY La RUSSA:  Well, the last one he pitched he gave up 3 runs in six, seven innings.  He's had an outstanding year.  Last game he pitched well.  That's his second in the postseason that he's pitched really, really well.  He's earned this start.  We're excited to play behind him.  I think he'll give us a chance to win.  
 
Q.  How is Tony Womack?
 
TONY La RUSSA:  We're giving him every opportunity to make the starting lineup.  I think his start would be doubtful but we're giving him -- he's earned it.  He works as hard as anybody, and he wants to try it.  So if he passes the workout test, he'll go.  I think it would be a tough test to pass, so the alternative, which I sent over to Houston, would be Renteria leading off with Luna hitting 7th.  
 
Q.  Is it unusual to match up with a team so closely, same ERA, same batting average, etc.? 
 
TONY La RUSSA:  Well, I bet you -- I mean, that may be the first time it's ever happened, going into a 7th game that you're exactly the same on those three categories.  And somebody else said something, there's one other category where there's a one-something difference.  But if you watch the games, all six games, the team that lost could have won and vice versa.  I think they've been really played evenly.  It's one of those times where the stats really help tell the story.  
 
Q.  Same question I had for Phil, but as someone who appreciates the history of the sport, given the way the postseason has gone the last couple of years, where does this era rank in terms of all the eras in baseball? 
 
TONY La RUSSA:  I would guess that the casual fan that tunes in for the postseason is entertained by what they see, maybe pay more attention than the regular season.  I think fans that live and die with each club have really enjoyed the drama, because there's been a lot of it, a lot of heroes and a couple of times guys have had some hiccups.  Major League Baseball, networks are happy.  I just think that the idea is to compete as hard as you can.  It's clear that the eight teams took that very seriously.  
 
Q.  When you talk to scouts about your team, they always say that what sets your team apart from others is you have great offensive players, but really great defensive players as well.  How tough is it to go this far having played the way you played?  How tough is it to go in this series without any errors?
 
TONY La RUSSA:  I mean, not just the pressure of the game, it's also the conditions a lot of times.  It's not the ideal stuff that you play with most of the late spring, summer.  I said before, and this is a good time to repeat it, we do have some talented offensive players, but the thing that I enjoy the most is the way they play defense and run the bases.  The thing that I admire the most is how relentlessly they have competed every day all year long.  Very hard to do.  You have to be very tough between the ears.  But I think, you know, baseball, a lot of times people I talk to, fans occasionally, but I talk to a lot of scouts, managers, coaches, they like to pay attention to base running and hits and defense, not just running bases.  Our club has been very strong that way.  
 
Q.  Given how many innings Brad Lidge has pitched the last few days and that he's gone through the lineup a few times, is there any benefit to you guys? 
 
TONY La RUSSA:  Well, we really hope that he pitched yesterday for the last time (laughter).  I think we will have a significant edge this time, if we see him.  I think that maybe at least two balls we get out of the infield (laughter).  We thought coming in, because we saw him in September, they were putting the rush on to qualify as a wildcard, he pitched in several games.  We thought, man, going in, we got a good look at him.  This guy, that's why you got to put him in the same category with great ones that are out there.  Rivera is a guy, you see them and see them, and they still make great pitches.  I think he's been very, very tough.  Hope we don't see him.  If we do, we have to compete.  He may be the guy that gets in our way, so we have to deal with it.  
 
Q.  Do you feel at all that this series has been overshadowed by the one that just ended last night? 
 
TONY La RUSSA:  I don't even care about that.  I mean, first of all, Astros and the Cardinals, we have a terrific history, but it's not the history of those other two clubs.  I mean, when the day is over, a lot of our games -- I could go to a movie or read a book or something.  I'm watching the games.  I think it's great stuff.  I just think that we've given people that have watched us a sampling of, "This is how we play the regular season," a lot of close games.  These two clubs play the game the same way.  It's not a factor for me.  I'm just pleased that they've been good competitions, and I hope we win the last one.  
 
Q.  You talked about how you're a baseball history buff.  What do you make of that, being able to come back from that 0-3 hole? 
 
TONY La RUSSA:  Well, they did it the right way.  I was listening to the quotes, read some of the stuff.  It's almost impossible to do, but you have to -- if you can separate the game you're playing, or even I heard Terry (Francona) say they were talking about the first inning.  If you can physically and mentally separate -- the idea is you can always -- your club has to believe they can win one game, and then the next game, win an inning.  But most of the time when you're down that way, you lose a little confidence, your expectations, you can't get to that level.  So for that club to do it against a team as good as the Yankees and have to do two in their ballpark, it's record-breaking for a lot of reasons.  They can't get enough credit.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT