NL DIVISION SERIES: CARDINALS v DIAMONDBACKS
October 12, 2001
Tony La Russa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Tony, the low-scoring games in all the series, is that the pitching?  Is it the free-swinging hitters not ready for that pitching?
 
TONY LaRUSSA: I think it has everything to do with good pitching.  Just today, Atlanta has got six runs on the board.  They missed their location and got the ball over the plate and they've hit, I don't know, three or four home runs.  The series we've played, I saw the one stat where both sides are leaving guys in scoring position.  But you take a look at those at-bats, the pitching has been very, very good.  So tonight, if Darryl and Miguel are really tough, anything they hit at, any mistakes  -- both lineups are very dangerous. 
 
Q.  Bud has been pretty unflappable this year.  Are you expecting the same thing tomorrow?
 
TONY LaRUSSA: Yes, it's one of the edges, I think, that we had for him to pitch the game, we've given him a number of opportunities, like the very first game after the interruption.  And I'm sure it's stirring inside of him, but he really maintains his composure, and I'm sure he will tomorrow. 
 
Q.  If you get a rain-out tomorrow, does that affect your pitching?
 
TONY LaRUSSA: Definitely.  If we lost that game tomorrow, then with Matt, on his 5th day, Matt would pitch the fourth game. 
 
Q.  Bob Brenly said if he were down 2-1 that he would probably come back with Schilling and Johnson.  Are there any circumstances where the outcome of tonight's game might change what you're planning?
 
TONY LaRUSSA: First of all, about that bit of news, that would be the only way I would look forward to facing Curt Schilling, us being up 2-1.   Well, no, we talked about all the different possibilities and we just think physically not just Matt but Woody, it would be next to criminal, for our pitchers.  I'm not talking about their pitchers, just take care of your own side.  For our pitchers, the kind of season it's been, we would not feel smart, comfortable, whatever, bringing those guys back.  A short rest would not do it.  
 
Q.  Could you talk about your decision to go with Paquette tonight?
 
TONY LaRUSSA: As I said before, when I play Mark the first day, I think it's a good situation for us.  Either guy that plays, I think we can win with.  They are two different players.  Mark is very dangerous; extra base hits, good on-base percentages, draw a walk.  With Paquette you can get a big hit, and we can get more creative with him because he has good legs and he can handle his bat.  If we can win with either guy I think it's Paquette. 
 
Q.  Do you think it's unfortunate that so many of the postseason games are on the Fox Family channel and can't be seen everywhere?
 
TONY LaRUSSA: I hadn't even thought about it.  I know my family in California has Fox Family, so they've watched whenever they could.  I mean, the reason that we're playing is not to get on TV.  We're playing for the chance for the big prize.  I haven't thought about it, except I'm just glad they're watching when they can. 
 
Q.  To clarify, if there is a rain-out tomorrow, Morris would go in Game 4, whenever it is, and Williams in Game 5?
 
TONY LaRUSSA: I wouldn't take anything for granted.  If there is a Game 5 and we lose tomorrow's game, then each guy would be on time, and they would set it up for both of them to pitch.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT