HENGQIN LIFE WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
October 24, 2019
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. KEYS/P. Martic   
6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  How did you feel out there today and what sort of improvements do you feel like you made from your first match into your second match?  
MADISON KEYS: I felt pretty good out there today. I think I served a lot better today. I think in the first match I made a lot of unforced errors pretty early in points and stuff. Today I felt I did a much better job of just setting points up and even if I didn't win the point at least constructing them better.   
 Q.  Not sure a hundred percent with the qualifications, but to the extent that this was your last match, are you satisfied with how you end your season?  
MADISON KEYS: Yeah, apparently I could finish first, second or third still, I have no idea. But, yeah, I mean if this was my last match, then I think it's a good one to end on. If it's not, cool.   
So I think I did a lot of things good today, so if it does happen to be my last match, definitely not mad that this is how I finished the year.   
 Q.  It was a fantastic match to watch and you hit a lot of great winners on forehand and backhand. One forehand you just killed, I've never seen a harder forehand. But I wondered, I notice you did two lefty forehands in the first set and two in the second set. Is that something you do often in your matches?  
MADISON KEYS: Usually that means that I'm running and I have zero chance. So hopefully I don't have to usually pull that out, but I think I'm actually pretty good at hitting it pretty high off of it and sometimes I can get back in the point. So if, worst case scenario, it comes out, then sometimes it works for me.   
 Q.  Do you practice that shot?  
MADISON KEYS: No. (Laughing).   
 Q.  Are you a fan of the round robin? Because, if this is your last match, it's not often that your last match of the tournament, if you get knocked out, is a win.  
MADISON KEYS: I think it's definitely interesting. I've played this format and I've also played in Singapore once. This one is I think a bit more complex. I was trying to figure it out earlier and it hurt my brain, so I gave up. And I've basically just decided that I'm going to wait and see what happens tomorrow and then someone will tell me what the outcome is.   
Obviously it's not very often that you win a match and then lose in a tournament. So it's interesting, but I think it makes it exciting and there's also the chance that you can lose a match and still be able to go on to the semi-finals.   
 Q.  How soon do you tend to look into things like off-season and pre-season and how you'll be spending them, vacations. You're still in the tournament, but do you think about that at all?  
MADISON KEYS: We have definitely already come up with a plan on when I'm going to start fitness, when I'm going to start tennis, all of that, so we have that somewhat figured out already. So, yeah, I think we just start trying to figure it out the last month or so, just so that all of us can kind of wrap our brains around when we're going to be done and when we're going to start again so we can start planning things.   
 Q.  As you're in limbo still, how do you look back on your season, what do you assess, obviously some highs, what do you take away?  
MADISON KEYS: Overall, I think it was a pretty good year. I've had a little bit of a rough start to the year and then from then on I think I have done a pretty good job. Obviously had some disappointing losses here or there, but first time I won two tournaments in a season, so lots of highs, lots of things to be really happy about and lots to build on and hopefully do better next year.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.   
 Q.  Your round robin has finished and are you going to watch the match tomorrow, the other opponents in the group or are you going to see the city and take, have some break tomorrow?  
MADISON KEYS: I might go see the city and do something fun. I mean, at this point, I can only wait and see what happens with the match tomorrow. So, yeah, I think I'm just going to go and enjoy the city and the day.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT