AEGON CLASSIC
June 17, 2016
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. KEYS/J. Ostapenko   
6-7, 6-4, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Madison Keys, please.   
 Q.  That looked a little bit tougher today?  
MADISON KEYS: Little bit different today.   
 Q.  Talk us through the rally where she fell down and you fell down --  
MADISON KEYS: And then I fell down and then she fell down again, and then I barely missed the ball.  That was a really dramatic point, wasn't it?   
She fell down, like, three times.  I thought after the second time, I thought I had it, and I didn't.  And that one hurt a little bit.   
 Q.  So lobs are going to be on the practice schedule?  
MADISON KEYS: I mean, it was, like, by this much (indicating).  That will stay in my brain. It wasn't that far out.   
 Q.  Today was a real battle.  You're the only one that doesn't have to play twice today.  Psychologically,  do you feel a little bit better?  
MADISON KEYS: Yeah, going in knowing I only had one match is a huge thing.  I'm sure everyone else was not super happy with that.  It just happened to work out that way.  Just really lucky.   
 Q.  Your first two encounters were more routine.  You weren't on court as long.  Is it good to come through a match like that today on a surface like grass?  
MADISON KEYS: I mean, you definitely feel better winning it than losing it.   
 Q.  You didn't seem particularly tested in your first two games.  
MADISON KEYS: Yeah, I think it's good to have to figure it out.  The first set was a little bit tighter and I had to try to change things up a little bit, but not a lot.   
Obviously being down a set and a break is a big difference than being down by two points.   
 Q.  What's going through your mind at that point, bearing in mind that you played so well in the first two games?  You didn't play particularly badly in the first set.  What's going through your mind at that point?  
MADISON KEYS: Really, it was just that she's playing really well.  Honestly, if she was able to keep that level and -- I tried to change things up a little bit, like, I started taking time away a little bit better, was maybe a little bit more aggressive.   
But at the end of the day, if I changed tactics the way that I did and she kept playing that well and beat me, then that would have just been too good.   
 Q.  Do you feel like that situation, being a set and break down, do you think that brought out the best in your tennis at that point?  
MADISON KEYS: I think at that point, it was either try something or back up and head to Eastbourne (smiling).   
She was playing extremely well and I had to do something or things were going to keep going the way they were going.   
 Q.  Did you think she wouldn't be able to keep up that level for three sets?  
MADISON KEYS: That's definitely what you're trying for.  You're trying to keep the person out there as long as you can and keep them in longer rallies.  Put them in tight situations to see if they can keep their level up.  If they do, too good from them.   
A lot of times, even if it's just a point or two, you can capitalize on that.   
 Q.  When you got into the second set, she started to get a bit frustrated, whereas you seemed calm throughout the match.  Did you think that was important in the end?  
MADISON KEYS: I think so.  Being the veteran of the match with way more experience (smiling), I think it was just being able to maybe handle the situation a little bit better.   
She's a great player.  She's definitely going to be around a lot.  I expect in matches down the road, she'll maybe handle her emotions a little bit better and things could be tougher.   
 Q.  Given that you're such a veteran of the tour and figuring things out has been your core strength in your career, do you think you're developing a lot more now?  
MADISON KEYS: Honestly, it's sounds dumb, because I've only played a full schedule or three years now, but really just playing more and more and getting the experience of being in her shoes, where there's been so many matches where you win the first set tight, the other person plays a little bit better, and you play a bad point here or there, and the wheels kind of fall off.   
I've definitely been in that position.  I'm sure I'll be in that position again.  It happens to everyone.   
This year, I've settled into my emotions a little bit more and have been able to play a lot calmer, which I think has helped me make smarter decisions, which in turn maybe makes me look a little bit more mature.   
 Q.  The scheduling has been a little kinder to you today.  The draw perhaps isn't so much.  You're definitely going to play a seed in the semis.  
MADISON KEYS: Yeah, little bit different halves right now.  But that's how tournaments work.  Obviously everyone who is into the semis is playing well and deserves to be there, so...   
 Q.  So you don't have a preference, Carla or Angelique?  
MADISON KEYS: I've played Kerber 97,000 times now.  I've got one, I walked away with the trophy, so I'm happy.   
So, I mean, I've played her a couple of times, know her game pretty well.  Obviously, if I played her, I would pretty much know the game plan.   
 Q.  Plus if you win that, you know you're not going to play a seed in the final.  
MADISON KEYS: Yeah, but I'm more focused on having to play a seed part first.   
But, I mean, and then if Carla wins, I think I've played her once or twice.   
 Q.  On grass?  
MADISON KEYS: Never on grass.   
So, I mean, it will be a little bit different.  I don't know her game as well.   
So, I mean, no matter what, it's going to be a tough match.  They're both ranked where they are for a reason.  Just waiting to see who wins.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT