AEGON CLASSIC
June 16, 2016
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. KEYS/T. Paszek   
6-1, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions or Madison Keys, please.   
 Q.  You were in a hurry today?  That was pretty impressive to come through that quickly before the rain again.  
MADISON KEYS: Yeah, definitely.  I feel like I'm up against the rain this week.  Really happy that we were able to get on the court today.   
Once I was out there, I was definitely really focused on getting on, playing as efficiently as possible, and hopefully finishing before the rain starts again.   
 Q.  Your movement looks a lot better today.  You seemed to be a lot more comfortable, even though it's a little bit slick?  
MADISON KEYS: Yeah, I think after the first match, you just feel a little bit more comfortable.  Even with it being a little bit slippery today, definitely feeling more and more comfortable on it.   
 Q.  I'm sure if it had gone to plan in terms of scheduling, you'd probably would have found yourself on Centre Court again.  Was there any difference between Centre Court and Court 1 today?  
MADISON KEYS: Hard to say, especially since it's been raining so much.  The one day I played on Centre, it had rained earlier, so it was a little softer.  But then today, it was a little slippery.   
 Q.  You didn't feel like you had to adapt to anything?  
MADISON KEYS: Not really.   
 Q.  Next you either have Kvitova or Ostapenko.  Which of the two would you rather face or are you prepared for either?  
MADISON KEYS: Yeah, I'm prepared for either.  Obviously Kvitova is pretty good on grass.  Ostapenko is clearly playing well and it seems like this surface would suit her game.   
Wait and see what happens, and then prepare after that.   
 Q.  We were looking on Google, and apparently the next most common question when someone looks you up, are you related to Alicia Keys.  What's your piano playing like and did you even know that that was the most popular question?  
MADISON KEYS: I didn't know that was the most popular question.   
I used to play the piano.  I'm terrible now.   
I used to lie to tell people and say she was my aunt (laughing).  Yeah, she's coming for Christmas.  And then eventually I'd have to give it up and say, No, I've never met her, and I'm not related to her.   
 Q.  The other thing is we are dying for you to teach us how to play President, because none of us actually knew what this game was.  
MADISON KEYS: You've never heard of President?   
 Q.  Never.  We're going to try to get you to teach the three of us how to play.  
MADISON KEYS: Okay.  It's great for killing time.   
 Q.  But please don't break our fingers?  
MADISON KEYS: There's no aggressiveness in President.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT