INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 14, 2016
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. KEYS/G. Muguruza
7-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How would you define this victory, incredible victory?
MADISON KEYS: I think I played really well today.  You know, the first set was a struggle.  We were both serving really well, and it's always tough when you're starting and stopping and things like that.
You know, very happy that especially in the last game I was able to keep my nerves under control and serve it out and win.
Q. How does it feel to be in the final of the Italian Open?
MADISON KEYS: It feels so good, so good (smiling).  I'm really, really happy.  You know, I'm just really happy that I'm kind of finding my form a little bit before the French Open, and, you know, hopefully I can continue tomorrow and walk out with a very big smile.
Q. Third final, two of which were on clay or are on clay, I guess.  Surprising or not surprising?
MADISON KEYS: Little surprising.  You know, I think green clay is a little different than red clay.  Not surprising that the other one was on grass.  I'm just mostly excited that I'm not playing Angie in a final, finally.
Q. (question off microphone regarding wooden racquets.)
MADISON KEYS: No, that was a little bit before my time.  No, I haven't.
Q. Is it too short a time to talk about Thomas Hogstedt's effect on your game?  Has he already brought to you some things that are...
MADISON KEYS: I think the biggest thing is just returns and just overall intensity.  Sometimes I have lapses of attention, and I can lose some points very quickly.  I think that's been a big thing for him.  So if I feel myself slipping a little bit, I'm catching myself very quickly.
Q. How tough was it with the rain, especially when it came two points from the finish?  I don't know if you were worried it could be a long delay.
MADISON KEYS: Oh, yeah, I was thinking it.  I was thinking, Oh, my God, it's 30-15, 5-4 I'm serving.  With my luck we'll be rained out until tomorrow, and I'm going to have two points and I'm going to think about it all night.
But then luckily that didn't happen.  So I caught myself pretty quickly.  And, I mean, it's always tough but we're both dealing with it, and I think we have dealt with it enough that we know how to handle it.
Q. You looked incredibly -- well, given the circumstances -- relaxed out there today.  It seemed to be something I have noticed throughout this week in terms of your play.  Do you feel like there is any particular reason for that this week, or am I just making things up?  I don't know.
MADISON KEYS: I mean, you could be, but I think I have just really kind of focused on each point this week and not gotten ahead of myself.  I know that's, you know, a lame answer that we always say, but really just focusing on each match and not making it bigger than a tennis match has been really helpful for me.
Q. There has been a lot of surprising results in WTA this year, a lot of the seeds going out early.  You're another unseeded player here and into a big final.  Do you feel any sense of the climate of the WTA now that things are open or things are possible or that, you know, nothing is impossible right now?
MADISON KEYS: I think there is just a lot of depth right now.  You know, obviously some people do better on certain surfaces, but I think there is always someone who can beat the seed or, you know, someone who has been on a run.
You never really know anymore.  It's not, Oh, she's going to win easily because one's seeded and one's not.  Everyone is good, so...
Q. You just said you are focused on each point, and you just said it's a lame answer, but sometimes it happens and sometimes it doesn't happen maybe.  So can you figure out how and why it happens and sometimes it doesn't happen?
MADISON KEYS: I think sometimes it's easier than other times.  I think the times when it's not happening, it's just that much harder to kind of catch yourself.  Maybe you're feeling more nervous that day.  But I think the more and more you deal with the nerves and be out on bigger courts and bigger matches and things like that, you just get used to it.
So you just get better and better at being able to handle those moments.
Q. Serena is up a set in her match.  What would it mean to face her in a big final like this here?
MADISON KEYS: It would mean a lot for me.  I'm really looking forward to tomorrow no matter who I play, but if it's Serena, I'm going to go out and do my best.  You know, I'm really excited for it.
Q. You played her twice last year, both at Slams.  What did you learn from those matches after having seen her from afar for a long time?
MADISON KEYS: I played her pretty close the first set of the Australian Open.  So definitely made me realize that I can stay in it.
But, I mean, I think you watch her play and you play against her and there is just some times when you think she just stepped up her level.  But I think if you're kind of able to weather the storm and stay with her that, you know, every once in a while you get one or two opportunities and it's, you know, really taking those opportunities.
Q. Has it been easier to swing maybe a little bit more freely on clay because you don't have the expectations necessarily of yourself that you might have on grass or hard court?
MADISON KEYS: I haven't thought about that.  But thanks to bringing it to my attention (smiling).
Q. You played Fed Cup on clay.  That was a big win for America.  Wondering if that jump-started this swing for you at all.  You played good in Madrid and here, as well.
MADISON KEYS: It was surprisingly really, really a good opportunity and chance to play.  It was in Australia, which everyone was thinking was going to be terrible.  But it was such a fun week and we had such a great group of people.
We got tons of practice on red clay, and I don't think many people get to have that, especially from the States.
Being able to have all that practice with coaches and having Coco and Bethanie and all of that, having good people to hit with all the time, was amazing.
Then playing Dasha, who is obviously playing well right now, was a big win for me.  I think it slowly kind of made me start figuring some stuff out.
Q. Do you feel like Americans aren't as afraid of clay?  If Serena makes it to the final, it will be an all-American final on clay, we think the first time in about 14 years it's happened, WTA.  Do you feel like you and other Americans are learning to love the stuff?
MADISON KEYS: I think so.  I mean, I think there is a couple of people who really love it.  I know Bjorn is in the final, as well.  He's won Junior French and he's obsessed with red clay.  He's a weirdo.  (Laughter.)
But I think, you know, now there is not very many of us who haven't played multiple seasons on red clay and just gotten used to it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT