US OPEN
September 1, 2019
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








E. SVITOLINA/M. Keys
7-5, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What do you think made the difference today? What do you feel about your game, if you could have done anything different?
MADISON KEYS: I feel like I didn't play my best tennis today. I think luckily I was able to still serve pretty well and stay in the match and still kind of give myself some chances.
I don't think I returned well. I mean, that was pretty obvious. I think I only won five return points. So it's tough to win a match when that's going on.
Yeah, I mean, it's hard to win a match when you're not making a lot of returns and being able to even put any pressure on her serve.
Q. How much of that do you think was down to her serve or how much was down to you being off?
MADISON KEYS: Probably a little bit of both. It's hard to say. Maybe she was doing something to make me miss or maybe I was just missing. I don't really know.
Q. What have the last 48 hours been like for you? You have been under the weather. How do you feel now?
MADISON KEYS: I feel a lot better. I feel much better than the other night.
Yeah, I mean, it's obviously not the perfect preparation for a match, but I feel way better than I did the other night.
Q. How did it impact your preparation, if at all?
MADISON KEYS: I mean, I obviously wasn't able to go out and have a great practice or anything like that, but I also don't think that that was necessarily the reason that I played the way that I did tonight.
Q. In terms of reacting to going out in the round of 16, what's the frustration or disappointment level?
MADISON KEYS: I think it's more because of how I played versus whatever round it was in. It's frustrating when you don't give yourself the chance to compete really, just because it's just not happening.
It's frustrating when you're trying very hard to get it together and figure out what you need to do, and it's just one of those days where it's not clicking.
Q. You had a pretty good summer. Good run coming in here, a win in Cincinnati. Overall, is it a blip or do you feel like you dropped something that was working or what?
MADISON KEYS: I mean, who knows? Maybe I just played really well in Cincinnati and came in here -- I mean, maybe I played well the first couple of matches because of Cincinnati. You know, I have never played that many matches coming into a slam.
Like, it could have been anything. So it's still a good summer. I still was able to get a title and I still made the second week of a slam and played three really good matches. I mean, I'm not going to go sit in a dark room and cry for the next four days.
I'm obviously disappointed and wish I could have gone further, but I just have to learn from it and take positives and go into Asia and try to play well there.
Q. What's your Asia schedule?
MADISON KEYS: I don't know yet.
Q. If you had a chance to watch last night, what were your thoughts as the post-match interview was happening with Osaka and Coco Gauff?
MADISON KEYS: I thought Naomi was great in that moment, and I thought Coco was great in that moment. It was great. It was obviously a very genuine moment, and I think everyone was very emotional because of it just because you don't see it very often, and it was just really nice to watch.
Q. On that, were you ever in a position where you relate so much to an opponent or a rival or even a friend on tour in that way? That kind of stood out yesterday. Have you ever felt anything like this?
MADISON KEYS: I mean, I think the person that I feel the closest to in that way is probably Sloane. I feel like we have gone through a lot of similar things. Maybe not at the same time, but we've had certain things happen that seemed like we're both going through it maybe at different times, but -- yeah, I mean, it's always tough to play her.
I think after our final, it was great to -- one, it sucked that she beat me, but it was great to have her there (smiling). So that's probably the closest thing I have ever had.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT