AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2016
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. KEYS/Y. Shvedova
6-7, 6-3, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You spoke on court about being more mental and physical today.  Can you elaborate on that?
MADISON KEYS: Yeah.  I think, you know, today it was definitely more I think physically I was kind of in the match, but it was kind of a moment where I had to kind of dig deep and figure some things out just to win a couple points here and there in order to win the second set.
And then I think I did a really good job of carrying that through into the third set.
Q. What do you feel these first couple matches have told you about yourself or told us about you?  You've had to dig deep.
MADISON KEYS: Yeah, I think I definitely have been working a lot on the mental side of my game.  Being able to kind of just stay a little bit more composed through whatever is going on on the court, just figure some stuff out when I'm not playing, you know, perfect tennis.
Q. Out there on court you sometimes hear the fans when you unleash on a big forehand.  How does it feel when you hit a particularly big forehand?  Do you hear the crowd response at all?
MADISON KEYS: I mean, as long as it goes in, I don't really care (laughter).  I mean, obviously, you know, I can hit some big shots and stuff like that.  At the end of the day, you know, if you're not hitting more of those than missing them, it doesn't really matter.
Q. There have been some great forehands in recent times, Roger's, Blake's.  Any particular forehands you were impressed with?
MADISON KEYS: I think the one forehand I always think about is James Blake's return of serve at the US Open that one year.  It was unbelievable.  That's kind of, I think, one of the greatest forehands ever.
Q. Ana Ivanovic next.  Talk about how you feel you match up with her game.  You play somewhat of a similar approach, but how do you see your chances there?
MADISON KEYS: I think we've played one time.  Honestly, I don't even remember it, to be honest.
I think obviously she does well here.  She can play really well.  It's going to be a tough match.  Hopefully I can improve on some stuff from today.
It will be interesting because we do both play similar and the aggressive style.  I think whoever kind of gets to, you know, strike first is going to be the one who comes out on top.
Q. It's interesting you say you don't really remember the match.  Some players keep every point in their head for 15 years.  Are you like that or not really?
MADISON KEYS: There's some matches, and then there's other matches I can't even tell you where I played Ana.  I know we played somewhere at some point and I lost.  That's about all I remember.
Q. When you say you're working on the mental game, what things specifically are you doing to improve that?
MADISON KEYS: I think the biggest thing is just kind of changing my perspective on a lot of stuff.  Instead of it being a daunting thing, you know, being down a set, just kind of taking it as a challenge, knowing that I've worked really hard for, you know, all of the off-season and I'm ready to be in the position.
You know, just go out there and be super positive about it.
Q. Rather than saying you're in trouble, it's more like you're going to come back?
MADISON KEYS: Exactly.  Just thinking of it as a challenge.  Thinking, I can stay out here all day; do whatever I need to win.  Not thinking of it as, I just lost the first set; I have to win the next set.
Q. We haven't heard much about your baking recently.  How is it going?  Are you still doing that?
MADISON KEYS: Still going strong.  Helped grandma out at Thanksgiving this year.  But other than that, haven't done a ton.  Just been really busy.  Unfortunately, there's no kitchens in hotel rooms, so...
Q. What was the toe issue in the third set?
MADISON KEYS: Just a blister.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT