WIMBLEDON
July 6, 2015
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. KEYS/O. Govortsova
  3‑6, 6‑4, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Quarterfinals.   Talk a little bit about that. 
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, I'm excited.   You know, I had a little bit of a slow start but was able to kind of change it around and get some momentum back and played a really good third set.

Q.   What happened in the beginning?   Because she seemed almost in control there for a while. 
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah, I think I was a little bit nervous.   She was playing really well.   I wasn't playing as smart as I wanted and started playing my shots.
So, you know, after I kind of sat down and gave myself a talking to, I kind of got myself back in control.

Q.   Can you tell us what you said to yourself, or is that X‑rated?
MADISON KEYS:   No, it was, you know, mostly just, you know, You have to play to win and she's not going to give it to you.   So just go out and do your best and go for your shots.

Q.   Do you feel like you have been playing well in this tournament overall?   You haven't had the toughest draw, haven't played anybody top 70 I think for the first several rounds.   You have had not the easiest score lines sometimes.   Are you happy with your role overall or happy to be getting through?
MADISON KEYS:   I think I'm playing pretty well.   I feel everyone I have been playing has been playing well. 
I mean, they haven't been the highest‑ranked players but they are also good players.   So they have been tough matches, but at the same time, I felt like I should have won them, which is kind of a different experience for me. 
I'm pretty happy with how I have been doing so far.

Q.   Do you feel like you should win things?   Do you feel like you belong in a quarterfinals of a slam?   It's not like, Oh, look at me, I'm here, or is it more, Yeah, this is right. 
MADISON KEYS:   I want to say that but I'm just happy I'm in the second quarter.   No, I definitely feel like when I'm walking out onto the courts, not only do I feel people are expecting me to win but I am expecting me to win.   That's a different pressure than I'm putting on myself.   I think I have handled it pretty well so far.

Q.   What does it mean to you to see so much success right here for American players concurrent with your success?   What do you think it might mean as a spring board for future success of American players?
MADISON KEYS:   I think it's great.   You know, I think, you know, it's great that Coco went out and won today, as well.   Denis is in the round of 16 for the first time. 
It's been a while since there has been that many Americans in the second week, and, you know, it's just really exciting.   I think it's going to kind of inspire everyone else to keep doing well and keep working hard.

Q.   In what way?   What do you draw personally when you see success of your peers from the United States?
MADISON KEYS:   You know, I think we are all pretty close, so, I mean, we are all just really happy for each other, but it also just motivates us in a way of he's doing well or she's doing well, maybe I can do it. 
You know, it's kind of nice just to be able to warm up, and like this morning I saw Denis, and it's nice to have that fellow person there.

Q.   What did you do with your Middle Sunday off or not off or whatever? 
MADISON KEYS:   I still had practice.   Got in an ice bath.   Kind of just went home and read a book.

Q.   What are you reading?
MADISON KEYS:   I can't even tell you what the name of it was.   I stole it from one of my sisters.   Just started reading.

Q.   What happens in it?   Is it fiction?
MADISON KEYS:   It was fiction, and she went to Nantucket or something.   I wasn't really paying attention, to be honest.   It was a lazy Sunday.

Q.   What did the rest of them do, sisters and mom?
MADISON KEYS:   They went in to London and went shopping and were kind of out of the house for the first time.

Q.   You have obviously only played one slam quarter before.   You won it.   Do you know what to expect this time or is it Wimbledon, different opponent, totally different?
MADISON KEYS:   I think there is still going to be the nerves.   It's second quarter and it's against a different person.   But I think there is at least some, Okay, I have done it before, I have been through it, I know what to expect.
No matter what, it will be fun and will be exciting, and I just have to go out and try to focus on the match.

Q.   Have you played on Centre before?
MADISON KEYS:   No.   I have played on 2 and 3.

Q.   That will change.   You will be on 1 or Centre next. 
MADISON KEYS:   Okay.

Q.   Aga or Jelena. 
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah.

Q.   Talk about that. 
MADISON KEYS:   I have played both of them.   Aga obviously does really well on grass.   JJ is playing amazing.   She beat Kvitova. 
No matter who it will be, it will be tough.   Someone is out there watching right now, so just kind of waiting to see who wins and then just build a game plan off that.

Q.   You talked openly about the nerves.   What's the key to getting rid of them in a match?   I'm sure it's annoying to everybody that those things don't just go away.   What do you do to settle yourself down?
MADISON KEYS:   I think it's, for me, it's just taking a couple of deep breaths and trusting my game and going for my shots. 
I think I have more trouble when I'm tentative and, you know, kind of trying to play safe, and I think for me hitting out and obviously big targets, but, you know, just playing my game and trying to go for it is what helps me.

Q.   Did the shoppers bring you back a present?
MADISON KEYS:   They did not, no.   They forgot about me.

Q.   That's not nice. 
MADISON KEYS:   It's usual.   I'm the older sister.   It's normal. 

Q.   How does the example of the Williams sisters, do you think, motivate, inspire, educate the players who are much younger such as yourself, such as Coco who are following in their footsteps?
MADISON KEYS:   I think, you know, it's motivating and it's inspirational and, you know, they are both amazing champions.   But they are also, you know, they are doing so well even later on in their careers.
I think it is inspiring to us thinking, you know, we have all of this time, but at the same time seeing them do so well from young ages is also, you know, motivating to see if we can do the same.

Q.   Where are you spending time when you're not on the road?   LA?   I think your mom moved someplace recently?
MADISON KEYS:   I'm between Florida, California, and Iowa. 

Q.   That's a mix. 
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah.   I'm kind of homeless right now.   I float from state to state.

Q.   Is there one place you like better than the other?
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, for me, I'm kind of a home body, so I love being home in Iowa.   My family is all there.   That's probably always going to be my favorite place.

Q.   Where in Iowa?
MADISON KEYS:   We are in Bettendorf. 

Q.   Small town?
MADISON KEYS:   Small place, yeah.

Q.   I'm from Poland.   Can you describe Agnieszka a little bit from your tennis point of view?
MADISON KEYS:   I think she's an incredible fighter.   She is a great mover, and her hands are unbelievable. 
You know, I feel like she's always there.   She makes you play four extra balls.   You know, she's a really tough opponent. 

Q.   What goes on in Bettendorf?   What do you do there?
MADISON KEYS:   Nothing.   You don't do anything (smiling). 

Q.   Movie theater?
MADISON KEYS:   It's nice.   We have a movie theater and we have some stuff, but it's a small town and I'm used to it and that's how I grew up, so I like it. 

Q.   You grew up in Chicago?
MADISON KEYS:   Quad Cities. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT