WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2015
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. KEYS/T. Maria
  6‑4, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How did that one feel today?  
MADISON KEYS:   It felt good.   You know, I thought I served really well.   Just played really focused those two games that I was able to break.  
Then after that it was just really consistent with my serve and was able to keep the lead.  
   
 Q.   How different do you feel now compared to that first match when you were down and things weren't kind of clicking?  
MADISON KEYS:   Definitely feel a lot better right now than in the middle of that match.  
You know, it was a tough match, but I think those are the kind of matches where, you know, being able to get through those and really fight through those can help you later on in the tournament.  
   
 Q.   You lead in aces now or you have been.   How much do you kind of look at that as a gauge for how well you're playing, and your power game, is that kind of indicative of how it's all going?  
MADISON KEYS:   I don't really look at aces per se, but, you know, definitely how many times I'm getting broken and things like that.   When I'm serving well, I'm definitely happy with how I'm playing, and it usually means everything else is working pretty well.  
   
 Q.   How do you sort of define power, your power game?   People talk about how important it is here in particular.   Petra and Serena and Maria are kind of at the top with you.   How do you kind of define the power game and how important it is?  
MADISON KEYS:   I think it's just one of those things where it's important at certain times.   I think being able to mix it up is what makes it very effective.  
I mean, I think it's one of those things where we kind of just have to go for our shots because that's how we play.   It can be very good, and sometimes it can be very bad.   Luckily it's been very good so far.  
   
 Q.   Is it a blessing and a curse, the power tennis?  
MADISON KEYS:   It's definitely a blessing and a curse.   But, you know, it's also one of those things where when it's not working you have to figure something else out.   But when it's working you just kind of keep going with it.  
   
 Q.   Has this always been your style of play even when you were young, 13, 12?   Was that how you played tennis?  
MADISON KEYS:   Yep.   I have always played like that.   
   
 Q.   What have you been proudest of after week 1?  
MADISON KEYS:   I think my composure.   You know, especially in the first match it wasn't easy.   You know, the last two rounds, you know, it's tricky matches.   No match is ever easy.  
Just being able to go out and be intense from the very beginning, I have been really happy with that.  
   
 Q.   With three matches now under your belt and coming in, you know, not really sure what your grass court form would be, do you now go into the second week like more relaxed than otherwise, or obviously now that the stakes are higher, less so?   How do you feel?  
MADISON KEYS:   Right now definitely more relaxed.   You know, you kind of work your way into a tournament and feel a little bit better.   Then, you know, you walk out on Monday and it hits you all again.   
But I think there's the added excitement once it's second week.  
   
 Q.   Maybe some of us forget after the Australian, like this is still a really big thing getting into a second week for you, isn't it?  
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah, this is only the second time I have made the second week.   
You know, I'm really excited about it.   Obviously haven't done it very much so it's still new, but, you know, hoping to keep building off of it.  
   
 Q.   Is this the first time that you have spent July 4 away from home, like of your pro career?  
MADISON KEYS:   I think so, yeah, which is a good thing.   
   
 Q.   Do you have barbecue plans?  
MADISON KEYS:   Probably not.   Did you see my shoes, though?   (Demonstrating shoes.)  
Representing in that way.   
   
 Q.   Back to one more power question.   When we talk about that and some of the other players we mentioned, like Kvitova and Maria and Serena, do you watch them specifically maybe because they are the type of player that you are?  
MADISON KEYS:   Not really.   I mean, I don't really watch any other players specifically because we play similarly and things like that.   
I really just enjoy watching tennis across the board, so I have it on a lot.   If it happens to be one of those, I'm probably watching it, anyways.   
   
 Q.   Have you found yourself in a late‑night Lindsay Davenport YouTube binge at any point?  
MADISON KEYS:   I haven't.   Although Jagger and I were one time looking at videos.   That was only about five minutes.  
   
 Q.   How would you assess your mixed doubles performance yesterday?  
MADISON KEYS:   I think it was really good.   First mixed doubles match ever.   So it was really fun, and, you know, I think I played really well.   You know, hopefully we can keep going.   
   
 Q.   You never played mixed doubles before?  
MADISON KEYS:   No, never.  
   
 Q.   Did it feel different?  
MADISON KEYS:   I was a lot more nervous, but, you know, that only lasted a couple of games and then it was just really fun.  
   
 Q.   Nick is a very divisive sort of creature on the court because he brings all this charisma, and that sort of puts people on one side or the other.   What do you think about him?  
MADISON KEYS:   I think he's a really passionate kid.   He's super nice and super funny.   
You know, sometimes he gets a little too passionate, I agree.   But, you know, he's 20.   He's figuring it out.   That's how he is.   
I mean, I think yesterday he was amazing.   You know, he definitely helped me out in a couple of tight moments, so, I mean, I think he's a really cool kid.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT