WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2015
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. KEYS/S. Voegele
  6‑7, 6‑3, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Were you getting flashbacks yesterday at all about having to chase light here again at Wimbledon?  
MADISON KEYS:   Not too bad.   We stopped a lot earlier last night than we did the year before, so I could still see the ball.   
But, you know, it happens.   You deal with it at the French and Wimbledon, so you kind of go ‑‑I pretty much went on to the court knowing there was a chance of having to come back.  
   
 Q.   What was that conversation like between last night and today and sort of preparing yourself to walk out and have 2‑2 in the third set?   It's tough to start, I think, at that spot.   
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah.   We talked about the match a little bit last night but didn't get too into detail about it.   Just tried to, you know, go to sleep and, you know, not really freak out about it and be super nervous about it.  
It's tough coming back when you can't really work your way into the match.   It's 2‑All in the third.     So, you know, just had to come out and be really intense from the first ball.  
   
 Q.   Do you think they ought to have lights at places like here and Roland Garros?  
MADISON KEYS:   I think Wimbledon at this point can just do whatever they want because they are Wimbledon (smiling).   
   
 Q.   Talk a little bit about the Lindsay/Jon/Lisa dynamic.   You have three great people there but not everybody has that.   
MADISON KEYS:   I'm very fortunate to have that.   Lindsay and Jon kind of tag‑team, and then when Lindsay and Jon can't be there, either together or one or the other, Lisa is filling in.   
It's been a really great combination.   Even on weeks where Lisa is not there, she's still involved and texting and things like that.   So it's really great that I'm able to have not only one great coach but kind of be able to have three.  
   
 Q.   How is their approach different?   What makes Lisa different than Lindsay or whatever?  
MADISON KEYS:   They all have very similar approaches.   I feel like they all talk so well together that the message is always the exact same.   You know, it kind of depends on the tournament.   One person is delivering the message, but they have kind of all discussed what they think beforehand.  
   
 Q.   You hit 21 aces today.   How relieving is it when you can just smash down one of those and walk to the next point?  
MADISON KEYS:   It's nice (smiling).   It comes in handy sometimes.   
I was actually surprised to see that number.   And, yeah, hopefully I can just keep, you know, serving well and kind of relying on it.  
   
 Q.   As an up‑and‑coming player, what is your appreciation for what Serena is doing late in her career and yet still she has the possibility of achieving a calendar‑year Grand Slam?  
MADISON KEYS:   I think it's amazing.   I mean, again, I think she's one of the best women's tennis players ever and she's still dominating the game.   For her to be doing it for so long is really, really incredible.  
   
 Q.   What do you admire most when you watch her play?  
MADISON KEYS:   I think the fact that she can just come out with so much intensity.   You know, you never count Serena out no matter what the score is.   I mean, you know that there is always a possibility of her coming back.  
   
 Q.   What do you admire least when you're playing against her?  
MADISON KEYS:   Her serve (smiling).   
   
 Q.   A lot has been made about the heat today, and I just want to get your opinion on it.   Some people say it's a heck of a lot worse in Florida.   Some people are saying, oh, I'm feeling dizzy out there and it's oppressive.   What was your take on it?  
MADISON KEYS:   It's definitely hot but nothing crazy.   We have played in worse.   I think it's just surprising because it's happening in England where it usually doesn't.  
We have played through much worse in Florida or in Florida and Australia, and even Cincinnati and US Open can get hot.  
   
 Q.   Do you set a different standard for yourself now since Australia?   If not, why not?   If you do, why?  
MADISON KEYS:   I think I set a standard of myself, and, you know, I try to achieve that every day.   I don't always achieve that every day, but, you know, I expect a lot from myself.   
I think being able to handle the annoyance when I'm not there every day has kind of been the process that I have been going through.  
   
 Q.   He was around before your time, but what does Arthur Ashe's life and legacy mean to you?  
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, I think he's an amazing person in tennis.   He's, you know, such a historical figure.  
You know, it's really special that we can, you know, celebrate him.   I think it's 40 years?   I mean, it's amazing.   
It's kind of hard to think, you know, 40 years ago he was making moves that impressive.  
   
 Q.   There were three double bagels the other day.   What are your memories or experiences being on either end of a double bagel?  
MADISON KEYS:   Being on the receiving end of a double bagel is not fun.   Being on the side that's giving it is usually a lot more enjoyable.  
   
 Q.   As a pro, have you been on both or no?  
MADISON KEYS:   I don't think I have gotten double‑bageled as a professional.   It may have happened in juniors before, but I know ‑‑ it's been close.   But there has been times when I literally have just been thinking, Okay, get one game, or seeing the time, just get it to an hour (smiling).  
   
 Q.   When you're on the winning end, is it at all awkward or doesn't matter at all to you?   When you shake at the net, do you feel inclined to say something?   
MADISON KEYS:   I think it's actually pretty hard to do just because‑‑ I mean, you have to keep your intensity so high and you have to stay so focused.   I think there are just some days you're feeling it and playing well.   You just kind of go with it.  
   
 Q.   I know it's hard to talk about other players, but how surprised have you been observing what's happened to Bouchard this year?  
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, I think it's tough watching.   You don't wish that on anyone.   She's an amazing player.   
I would not be surprised if, you know, the last Grand Slam and last couple months of the year she does really well.  
   
 Q.   Is that something all players are kind of wary of, that it could happen to you and that's one of the things that are in the back of your mind?  
MADISON KEYS:   I think you know that it can happen any tournament.   You could go out first round or you could win.   Tournaments are like that.   
   
 Q.   I mean first round and then another first round, kind of get into that rut?  
MADISON KEYS:   It happens, yeah.   Again, you don't wish that on anyone.   You don't want it to happen to you.   So, you know, I think ‑‑I mean, it's definitely tough.  
   
 Q.   How nervous were you going into Wimbledon this year?   Like before this match, given everything, the illness and your leadup and stuff.   
MADISON KEYS:   I was definitely nervous.   I don't know if I was more nervous than previous years, but, I mean, I think going into any Grand Slam you have those nerves and practices a couple days before you can definitely tell everyone is feeling the tension.   
   
 Q.   How do you tell?  
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, some people are‑‑ you know, sometimes emotions are running higher.   Other times people are just, you know, trying to laugh it off and you can just tell.   
Everyone just all of a sudden gets a little bit more focused and a little bit more intense.   I was definitely feeling that.   But I knew the last week of practice had been really good, so I was feeling pretty good.  
   
 Q.   Speaking of Bouchard, as a young woman yourself, how have you managed to keep both the pressure at bay and all the stuff, nonsense that goes on around you on the circuit?  
MADISON KEYS:   It's not always easy, but I think surrounding yourself with a good team and good support system is what has been my biggest thing.  
Obviously I had some ups and downs through it and kind of trying to figure it out, but you kind of get thrown into the spotlight and don't always know how to handle it.  
I have been lucky to have a really great support system.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned earlier that you consider Serena one of the greatest tennis players of all time.   When you look around at all the sports now, where do you consider her among all athletes at the moment?  
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, she's definitely one of the best athletes.   I think she's setting records and things like that.   Obviously if she's able to do that, then you have to say she's one of the best athletes.  
   
 Q.   How do you think Laura Robson is and especially given her injury and recovering from that?  
MADISON KEYS:   I think it's great she's back.   I love seeing her on tour.   I think she's definitely going to get better and better.   Looking forward to having her back on the circuit.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT