AEGON INTERNATIONAL EASTBOURNE
June 23, 2015
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 B. BENCIC/M. Keys
  6‑2, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How are you feeling?   Because you have had a bit of the flu.   
MADISON KEYS:   Yes, I had the flu.   That was not fun.   Happy I no longer have the flu.  
   
 Q.   How long were you sick?  
MADISON KEYS:   Almost a week.   Yeah, it was lots of laying there thinking I was dying.   Then eventually I started feeling a little bit better and was able to start practicing again.  
   
 Q.   A little bit of a resurrection helped then?  
MADISON KEYS:   Yes, a little bit.   Luckily I didn't actually die.   You know, just trying to get back to 100% now.  
   
 Q.   Obviously coming back on, it's going to debilitate you and make you feel lethargic.   Is that how you felt out there today?  
MADISON KEYS:   I felt it was just not quite happening today.   It's always tough playing your first match on grass.   You know, I think everyone kind of has to work into it a little bit.   It's kind of a different surface compared to hard and clay.   
Belinda has played a ton of matches on grass and feels comfortable right now.   You could tell because she played really well today.  
I'm just looking forward to getting, you know, a lot of practice on the grass the next couple of days and being ready for Wimbledon.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to stay down here and practice or head to London and actually practice in situ?  
MADISON KEYS:   No, I'm actually headed to Wimbledon tonight so I can practice there tonight.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel tentative before the match because of lack of practice on the grass?  
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, a little bit.   You always go into your first tournament feeling that way.   Unfortunately things didn't really work for me today.   Just can't take it too hard, and, no, just look forward and keep trying to get better.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel a bit frustrated you were the defending champion and you had the illness so you're probably not at your best to defend the title there?  
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah, there is never a good time to be sick during the year or hurt or anything like that.   Coming in at a time where there is such a short window to be able to prepare is definitely a disadvantage, but it happens, so you've got to deal with what happens every day.  
   
 Q.   Is it extra disappointing because you had an extra week of grass this year?   Did it seem like you were going to have more time on grass?  
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah, it was kind of nice because it was a perfect schedule.   You can get some practice, have two full weeks of grass before going into Wimbledon, and then getting sick and having to pull out of that one week and kind of having to try to jam everything into this week is not ideal, so fingers crossed it doesn't happen again next year.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel that affects your preparations for next week, then, the lack of match time you have had going into Wimbledon?  
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, obviously in a perfect world you want four or five matches before you go into Wimbledon, but people have done it before where they don't have very many matches and some people don't play any.   
Just going to get lots of practice down at Wimbledon and be prepared for that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT