MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAU
March 27, 2015
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. STEPHENS/M. Keys
  6‑4, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Obviously windy conditions.   Wasn't quite your day today.   What went wrong for you out there today?
MADISON KEYS:   Just, you know, one of those days where didn't quite have the feeling; couldn't really find it.
Sloane played really well.   I thought in the first set I kind of had a chance to come back and maybe get into the match a little bit more, but a couple of bad points here and there and it kind of just got away from me.

Q.   Future of American tennis.   Were you thinking about that when you went out?   We look at the two of you as the potential future of American tennis. 
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, I was just treating it as another match.   Wasn't really thinking about that.   It's always really good to see Sloane playing well.   I thought‑ I knew ‑ it was going to be a tough match.
You know, she just played better than me today.   You know, wishing her all the best and hoping she goes deep now.

Q.   Few years ago, Australian Open semis; toast of America.   This year it's you.   You're like following the same path.   She had a rough time last year.   Do you ever think what she's gone through and maybe what's ahead for you?
MADISON KEYS:   I think experience is a huge thing in this game, and her dealing with, you know, some bad days more than I have and also being more in the spotlight and having her good days, I think she's gone through it and I think she's handled it really well.
You know, I definitely think doing well puts more of a spotlight on you, so hopefully I can just put my head down and experience it all, learn from it, and then just keep getting better.

Q.   Has it been tough since Australia or wonderful?   Or it's like a combination?
MADISON KEYS:   It's a combination.   It's always‑‑ you know, it's great to do well and things like that and move up in the rankings, but then it also ‑‑people start playing better against you and they are going after you more.   It's just a different feeling. 
So I think just learning from it and just trying to improve upon it.

Q.   You're not based here anymore; based out of California?
MADISON KEYS:   I'm kind of in both places.   Jon and Lindsay live in California so I train there some, but also still train in Florida some.

Q.   Do you have a place in South Florida that you live in?
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah.   I have an apartment in Coconut Creek.

Q.   5‑Love down in the second set your coach came out and you seemed to play a little better, but also you were in tears.   Every match I'm sure means a lot to you.   Can you tell us what was said and how you're feeling?
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, I just kind of let the emotions get to me.   It's like you're having a really terrible day, but for me my terrible day is in front of hundreds of people and then broadcasted on TV.
That's not always fun.   But I kind of just let it get to me for a second.   My coach came out and was just, you know, You're doing great; you're trying.   You know, I'm never one to give up.   So he said, Just keep fighting.
I love that you're, you know, trying to do things and do better.   You know, just all part of the process.

Q.   Who was that?
MADISON KEYS:   Jon.

Q.   You said you have an apartment in Coconut Creek.   Is that on your own?
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah.

Q.   Sloane just talked about having an apartment in Fort Lauderdale and how sometimes it's kind of boring and lonely.   What's it like for you?   I assume this is your first time living on your own. 
MADISON KEYS:   I actually moved out when I was 18, so I'm kind of used to living on my own now. 
Sloane didn't have two younger sisters who lived with her and stole her clothes and hogged the bathroom and had to fight over things like that. 
For me it's kind of nice.   You know, my mom and sisters live in Iowa, so, I mean, I kind of have to live alone.   It's just something that I've gotten used to.

Q.   You have done it for years in Boca Raton. 
MADISON KEYS:   Well, my mom and my sisters lived with me some, but they never really got to travel with me to tournaments and things like that, so I spent a majority of my year on my own.

Q.   So they are in Iowa; dad's in Chicago still?
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah. 

Q.   (Indiscernible.)
MADISON KEYS:   And California.   I'm kind of homeless right now.   I don't have one home.

Q.   Looks like you kind of‑‑ Davenport, seems like you guys get along. 
MADISON KEYS:   They are amazing.   They've, you know, helped me improve in a lot of ways, and they are kind of helping me get through the ups and downs.   They are giving me all the advice that they can. 
Just it's a learning experience.   It's a journey.   It's not going to happen overnight.
Just really excited that they are working with me.

Q.   Jon, he used to work in finance. 
MADISON KEYS:   He still works in finance.

Q.   And they are splitting it?
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah, Jon helps when he can.

Q.   In all the years in South Florida you never played Sloane in anything?
MADISON KEYS:   No.   We practiced together occasionally at USTA, you know, in Carson and Florida and we have been on Fed Cup teams together, but never played a match against each other till today.

Q.   Your movement seemed to be off today.   Was it the conditions or just Sloane playing so well and putting you in uncomfortable conditions?
MADISON KEYS:   I think it was a combination.   She definitely played well and she kept the pressure on me the whole time. 
I just don't think I was seeing the ball quite as great just because it was moving so much.   I was kind of getting stuck in some bad positions.

Q.   What do you tomorrow?   Practice?   Sort of put this out of your mind?
MADISON KEYS:   I might go to the beach tomorrow and take a day off and then start back again on Sunday.

Q.   Are you looking forward to the clay season? 
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah, I am.   It's always a part of the year that is probably the toughest for me, but it's also something that I feel like every year I get a little bit better. 
I'm excited to try to get a little bit better this year.

Q.   What's next for you?
MADISON KEYS:   Charleston.

Q.   Have you heard from MJ about Fed Cup? 
MADISON KEYS:   Not yet.   We'll figure it out, though. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT