BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 16, 2015
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. JANKOVIC/M. Keys
  5‑7, 6‑4, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Tough result.   Talk a little bit about the match, how you felt it all sort of went. 
MADISON KEYS:   Well, I had almost 70 unforced errors, so that was not good.   I mean, JJ makes you hit a lot of balls and she got a lot of balls back and put some pressure on me.
Overall not happy with how I played, but, you know, it happens.   So just going to go back and get on a practice court and get ready for Miami.

Q.   When you say you're not happy with how you played, can you break it down?   Like other than the unforced errors, specifically footwork, shot selection, whatever?
MADISON KEYS:   Shot selection, for sure.   I think I hit probably 55 backhands in the middle of the net.   This should not happen.
So it was mostly that. 

Q.   How was it to sort of have Lindsay come out, rounds of applause, etcetera, etcetera?   (Sorry I couldn't hear her?
MADISON KEYS:   I think on‑court coaching is great.   It can help change the matches around sometimes.   Wish it had changed it today.   (Smiling).

Q.   Today was not that day. 
MADISON KEYS:   Didn't work today.
Yeah.   I think, you know, the information that you can get is useful.   It's also, you know, nice to have someone try to calm you down and things like that.   You know, maybe next week it will work in my favor.

Q.   How much can you take in in that 30 seconds?   What do you try to take in in that 30 seconds?
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, I personally think Lindsay does a pretty good job of giving me three or four things that I think she thinks and Jon thinks that, you know, is not working or she's doing well.
So, you know, just really trying to take a couple of bits of information and go out and try to do it in the next few games.

Q.   Looking forward to the rest of the season, the U.S. is going to play Fed Cup in Italy.   Can you tell us how you see the match for the U.S.?
MADISON KEYS:   Honestly I have not even given it a second of thought.   I mean, Italy is always good.   We have lost to Italy a lot, like every year.   (Smiling.)
I mean, it will be a tough match.   It always is.   I think every Fed Cup tie is tough.   There is always really good players playing for their country.   Hopefully we beat Italy this time.

Q.   In that third set it looked like the backhand wasn't cranking, especially down the line.   When you see that happening, you just kept doing it?
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah, I'm that person, Oh, I didn't make it?   Let me try it again 37 times.

Q.   Even though Lindsay told you not to do it?
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah.   (Smiling).

Q.   Your stubbornness?   Explain the logic.   Put me in your head in that moment. 
MADISON KEYS:   See, I wish that I could explain it to you, but sitting here right now, I still can't quite figure out why I was doing that. 
Because it's one of those things that as soon as you hit it, That was so dumb; why did I do that?   The crosscourt is completely open, yet I try to hit it an inch other the net and I missed it.   Again.   Let me try it again next point.
It's not smart, for sure.   I really wish I could tell you, you know, it's just because I'm stubborn and I just wanted to make one.   If I ever figure it out, you'll be the first one that I can tell. 

Q.   Perfect. 
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah.

Q.   Excited for that. 
MADISON KEYS:   Me too. 

Q.   Realistically having been out for so long, was it unrealistic to think you'd do well after all that time out?
MADISON KEYS:   I definitely wasn't thinking that going into the tournament.   I was coming in thinking, I have been practicing well; I have been doing well; it's been a long time since I have had had, you know, a bad match where I came off the court and I was really disappointed in how I played.
I think that's growth.   But, I mean, it's a learning experience.   You're not going to play well every tournament, but you definitely go into every tournament thinking you can do some damage.

Q.   Are you going to head straight to Miami and try and get ready there?   Take a couple days off? 
MADISON KEYS:   No, definitely not going to take days off.   I need to get back on a tennis court.

Q.   Do you think that's the best thing right now?
MADISON KEYS:   Maybe not tomorrow.   Maybe the day after tomorrow.   But, no, definitely just want to get back on the court and start working and, you know, get ready for Miami and kind of move on.

Q.   Talk about, if you could, the move from Boca.   Now seems like you're based in LA, right?
MADISON KEYS:   Somewhat.

Q.   Ish? 
MADISON KEYS:   I kind of don't have a home anymore.   I'm kind of homeless at the moment.

Q.   You have spent a lot of time training out this way.   Does it feel different to you in terms of, I don't know, being so comfortable in Florida for so long and being based there for so long?   Everything in 2015 seems pretty new?
MADISON KEYS:   I think it was a good change for me.   I think I had been in Boca consistently for so long.   I think it's kind of good for, you know, change of scenery and, you know, to get out of my little bubble.
But, yeah, no, it's been great training in LA; still train some in Florida.   But I think kind of going back and forth is good for me.   I'm kind of that person that likes to change things up.   I don't like to be in the same place for long periods of time.
But, no, I mean, it's been great.   I love working with Lindsay.   I love working with Jon.   I love having their kids around.   It's been working out pretty well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT