BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 14, 2015
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. KEYS/K. Koukalova
  6‑3, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   First match since Australia.   How did you feel out there?   Scoreline didn't look too rusty, at least. 
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah, I a little bit.   It's always kind of different coming out and playing first match back.   Luckily it just kind of all seemed to work, and I didn't really have to, you know, try to breakthrough and, you know, try to figure things out too much. 
She's a tough player.   She can come up with some really good shots, so just really happy I was able to get through it.

Q.   What's the last month been like since you became Madison, Grand Slam semifinalist?
MADISON KEYS:   Pretty similar to before.   Get recognized a couple times.   It's the same.   Just trying to get better and better. 
Been doing a lot of‑‑ have spent a lot of time on court and in the gym.   Just trying to, as great as Australia was, just trying to build from it and keep going and not just be really happy with what happened there.

Q.   What advice has Lindsay been giving you since Australia?
MADISON KEYS:   Really just keep working; keep doing what you're doing.   Obviously what we did in the offseason and practice and things like that helped me get to the semis, so working hard and doing the same thing.   Just trying to get better every day. 

Q.   How can you not be happy with what happened in Australia?
MADISON KEYS:   Well, I mean, I'm definitely happy about it.   I'm not going to go cry about the fact that I made the semis, but it's also moving on from it and not getting stuck in the moment.   Tennis is very much what's happening today.   People forget about you. 
So as great as it was to do well there, I'm looking forward and just trying to do well in this tournament now.

Q.   Did you feel forgotten about the last month?
MADISON KEYS:   No, not really, but it's been nice.   (Smiling.)   You know, got some recognition and things like that.   But, you know, just really excited to try to keep moving forward.

Q.   This was Lindsay's first on‑court coaching visit today.   Were you nervous or excited about that?   I know she talked before about being sort of nervous or reluctant to go out there. 
MADISON KEYS:   She jokingly told me to flip the coin to decide if John or her would go out there, and I actually flipped a coin.   So that's how we decided. 
I think it will change depending on if she has to go straight to the booth afterwards.   I think she did a good job.   She will probably be on court a couple more times.

Q.   She got a little round of applause, which most coaches don't get walking off court. 
MADISON KEYS:   Yes, she did.   I noticed that that.

Q.   Have you thought about this rise of your players of color like yourself, how remarkable it is and maybe how it felt. 
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, I think it's more ‑‑I think, you know, as great as that is, it's more ‑‑ I kind of think of it more as the American tennis, period.   We definitely went through a long lull of just Venus and Serena who were doing really well.   To have I think it's 14 players in the top 100 is huge. 
So just try to keep going and keep the momentum of everyone.

Q.   Did you see Serena's match last night?   What's your take on that whole thing?   Were you pleased to see her back?
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah.   I was definitely tearing up.   It was an amazing moment.   It was really special.   You could see how much it meant to her and her family.   It was a huge moment.
I think half the crowd was probably crying.   It was a big moment and really happy to see her back. 

Q.   Did you come close to playing at any point since Australia?   Did you come close to playing anywhere at any time?
MADISON KEYS:   I was thinking about playing in Acapulco, but didn't want to rush it and wanted to be 100% for the next couple of tournaments.

Q.   How is the adductor?
MADISON KEYS:   How was the doctor? 

Q.   The adductor. 
MADISON KEYS:   Oh, the adductor.   I was like, Doctor?   What? 
It's good.   It was done a couple of times, so it was one of those things where I just wanted to make sure I got into PT and was doing everything to make sure it's as strong as possible.

Q.   What was it like watching Millionaire with Sam Querrey?
MADISON KEYS:   It was really funny.   There were a couple of lines where I just looked at him.   He's like, Yeah, I don't know.   I just panicked and I just said something.
It was really funny, and we're trying ‑‑I think he should go back on.   I don't know if he's as excited as I am for that, but I'm definitely going to try to start a campaign to get him back on there.

Q.   Can he go back on there?
MADISON KEYS:   I think he can go back on.

Q.   What were his highlights and his low lights?
MADISON KEYS:   The comment about eating food off of sticks or whatever, that was really confusing to me (Smiling.)   It was funny because the scene of him practicing and everything was so staged.   It wasn't his dog.   That was the biggest thing.   They showed the dog at the beginning, and his dog does not look like that. 
I looked at him, and said, That was not Poppy.   He's like, Yeah, I don't know.   They just grabbed a dog.   Oh, okay.   Because that's not yours.

Q.   What other player would you nominate for Millionaire Matchmaker?
MADISON KEYS:   I don't know.   I feel like somebody really needs to be really exciting.   Like, I don't even know.   Get someone like ‑‑someone funny.   I don't know.   Get like Fognini on there or something.

Q.   Madison, speaking of reality shows, on Survivor now they divide it into blue collar working class is one tribe and then white collar, executives, and then there is no collar, free‑form.   Of blue collar, white collar, no collar, what's your tribe?   What are you most like?
MADISON KEYS:   That is the most far‑out question I've ever gotten asked.   (Smiling.)
Oh, I don't know.   Blue collar, I guess.   I don't know.   Since we have to be ‑‑since I think all tennis players are since you're out there and working every day.

Q.   Do you think fans don't really understand all of the incredible work that has to go in day in and day out for all of the players?   It's a bit of a gap?
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah, I think sometimes just the glamorous side of, you know, being a tennis player is shown.   You don't always see the four‑ and five‑hour practices that we are doing and all of that.   Definitely.

Q.   Do you think if there was not Venus and Serena you'd be here today?
MADISON KEYS:   Since Venus was wearing the dress that got me into tennis, probably not. 

Q.   After this, what's your next goal?
MADISON KEYS:   Really just, you know, monotonous and boring as this answer is, just being more consistent.   Consistent wins, solid matches, day in and day out, kind of leveling out the highs and lows.

Q.   As a tennis fan, did you take a look at today's schedule?   On the outer courts there are four former No. 1 players and they are playing on like Courts, 3, 4, 5, 6.   Do you have any thoughts about that as like a fan that, you know, there is an opportunity to see a former No. 1 on a small, intimate court?   Just your thoughts about that as a fan. 
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, I think this whole facility is amazing for watching tennis.   There are so many great courts.   You know, I feel like they spread everyone out pretty evenly, so I feel like no matter what you're going to go and you're going to watch a really good match.

Q.   Jankovic or Lauren Davis next.   Talk about each of them briefly. 
MADISON KEYS:   I have played both.   Obviously I used to train with Lauren all the time, so, you know, that's always a tough match playing a fellow American. 
JJ is obviously a great player.   I mean, no matter what, it will be a tough match.   Kind of just waiting and looking at scores to see what happens.

Q.   Conditions here?   Ball flies, but fairly high bouncing.   Seems like it would probably suit you. 
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah, the first couple of days the balls flying wasn't great.   But finally got some control over that, and, yeah, it's nice. 
The balls bounce high.   Definitely helps my second serve and my kick serves and things like that.   Definitely like the conditions. 

Q.   All great athletes basically focus on the immediate future, like you said today.   Coming back from Australia, what was your inner thoughts?   Did you feel, Wow, I finally made a breakthrough, I can really emerge, or was it more a matter of fact?   Could you just share with us what your thoughts are?
MADISON KEYS:   I was excited.   I was definitely happy with how I did.   It was by far my best tournament.   So there was all of those emotions. 
But then again, it was the I can't wait to go back and train so that I can try to have another moment like that.

Q.   Are you having more demands on your time now for press?   How do you balance that with spending time training?
MADISON KEYS:   There has definitely been some more requests and things like that, but managing it pretty well.   You know, everything is just really planned so I have time for certain things throughout the day. 
My day is pretty scheduled. 

Q.   Would you go on Millionaire Matchmaker?
MADISON KEYS:   No, I would not.

Q.   Were you surprised that Sam agreed to do it?
MADISON KEYS:   No.   He thinks it's like the gateway into the Bachelor or something, which is his lifelong dream (laughter).   He was all excited about it.   We were more just excited to watch it. 

Q.   Would you ever go on a reality TV show?
MADISON KEYS:   Depending on what the show was about I might, but definitely not any dating type of show. 

Q.   What kind of shows would make the cut then?   Cooking or... 
MADISON KEYS:   I could do a cooking show, yeah.   Or something to do with like my family.   I think we could do a pretty good reality TV show.

Q.   (Indiscernible.)
MADISON KEYS:   I don't know.   Probably not like them.

Q.   Talk about your baking.   Do you get into a reflective mood?   What's your favorite thing to bake?
MADISON KEYS:   I don't really get in a really reflective place.   It's more I'm in the mood to bake something so I'm going to do it.
So definitely don't eat what I bake.   I really like ‑‑I like making cakes and brownies and definitely like making cheesecake, as well.

Q.   You don't eat what you bake?
MADISON KEYS:   I have like a little bite and then I have to get it out of my house. 

Q.   ( Question regarding bakeoff.)
MADISON KEYS:   I don't know if I can take that, because, I mean, I usually give food to people that I know so they have to lie to me and tell me it's really good. 
So I don't know if there was, you know, nonbiassed judges, I don't know if I could take the critique. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT