AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 26, 2015
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  M. KEYS/M. Brengle  6-2, 6-4  An interview with:  MADISON KEYS   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  How tough was it after the big win in the third round to get ready to start all over again in this match?  MADISON KEYS: Yeah, I mean, there's definitely the high of winning and beating Kvitova and everything, and then having to kind of refocus, regroup, and go into another match, a match where, you know, I was a higher-ranked player, I should have won.  So it was a different pressure and it was different nerves.  But, you know, I think I managed pretty well.   Q.  How did you work on managing that different sort of pressure?  MADISON KEYS: It was more, you know, just play your game, play within yourself.  She's going to make a ton of balls, so don't go for something before you don't have it.  Then just believe in yourself and go for it.   Q.  This concept of not going for it unless you have it, why is that suddenly gelling now?  Surely you've been told that in the past.  MADISON KEYS: Never, no (smiling).  I think it's just more I'm finally kind of understanding it and really knowing when I have it, but also the confidence of being able to stay in points and know, you know, if I can get to this ball, I can get to another ball, things like that.  I think it's more just confidence in knowing that I can last in a point, and knowing I can run side to side for 12 balls.   Q.  Is that the work you put in in the off-season running the sand dunes with Rodney?  MADISON KEYS: It's definitely a lot of that, yeah.   Q.  Statistically you won a whole lot more points than she did, which is not always associated with your game generally.  MADISON KEYS: Thanks (laughter).   Q.  Did you feel yourself doing well on those big points?  Did that surprise you at all?  MADISON KEYS: I didn't really feel myself, but at the same time I knew she wasn't really hurting me in that situation.  So it was one of those things where I wasn't panicking when I was in a long rally.  So, yeah, you know, when I was getting tight, it was definitely just a thing of, you know, keep it deep, keep it cross-court, then work the ball until you have it.   Q.  Talk about Venus and Aga.  Obviously a big step up.  MADISON KEYS: Yeah, I mean, no matter who wins that match, it will be a tough match.  I've played both of them before.  I've lost to both of them before.  It's a little bit different.  Aga can get a million balls, can put everything back into play.  Venus is a big hitter, has a great serve, and can be very much on the offense.  So I guess I'm just going to sit and wait and see what happens and then go from there.   Q.  You're going to watch it?  MADISON KEYS: Yeah.   Q.  Journalists love symbolism.  If you play Venus, we look back on your story, how you started.  Does that matter to you at all or is it just us who thinks that's interesting?  MADISON KEYS: It really just matters to you guys (laughter).   Q.  If someone came to you before the tournament and said, Madison, there will actually be four press conferences in a row where the reporters are going to speak positively about American tennis, what would you have said?  MADISON KEYS: I would have been completely shocked.  Happily shocked, but still shocked.  It's a good feeling.  Hopefully we can all keep it up and we have more and more tournaments where there's more positive talk about American tennis.   Q.  What is your thought process within yourself?  Are you saying that you're ready for this, it's about time?  Are you a little bit surprised?  Are you eager to go on and on?  MADISON KEYS: I'm just really excited.  I think it's a huge opportunity for me.  I haven't been in this situation before.  I'm going to make the most of it.  But at the same time no matter what, I'm not really going to be satisfied with any win.  I want to be at the end of the tournament holding the trophy up.  That's my goal in the long run.  So I am very happy that I'm in the quarterfinals.  I'm really just looking forward to the next match.   Q.  You think you have the skills and experience to hold that trophy up?  MADISON KEYS: I think if I play right and I do what I'm supposed to do, I definitely think I can be a contender for it.   Q.  How big a milestone does a first slam quarterfinal feel to you?  MADISON KEYS: It feels really good.  My mom texted me before the tournament.  She said, It's your last Grand Slam as a teenager, and sent me a bunch of grandma faces.  I'm like, Thanks for reminding me, Mom.  Thank you.  Love you.  It's huge.  But it's my last slam as a teenager.  I'm doing so well and hopefully I can keep it up.   Q.  What would be the emoji that describes your general sense right now?  MADISON KEYS: You know, the one that she's in a salsa dress dancing.  That would be me right now.   Q.  How much does having Lindsay Davenport by your side help you in terms of getting rid of pressure and ready for the big match?  MADISON KEYS: I think with Lindsay it's been a big thing for my confidence, knowing that I can do well, play well.  So for that, going into matches knowing I have a chance in every match has definitely helped me, has definitely helped me get through this tournament.   Q.  Does she give you any specific advice, technical or strategic advice, or more she talks about confidence?  MADISON KEYS: She definitely has shared a lot of her experience, which is always super valuable to me.  Technically-wise it's more tactical, more keep the ball deep, keep it cross-court, things like that.   Q.  What do you remember about your WTA debut?  MADISON KEYS: I remember I played Alla.  I remember it was in Florida.  I remember I won.  That's about it.   Q.  Were you surprised?  Do you remember what you felt like after that match?  MADISON KEYS: I knew I was really happy.  Then again, I don't fully remember it.  I think I was just a little bit surprised that I won.  I was more so excited.  It was kind of the first tournament where I had prize money.  I was like, I got paid to play tennis, this is awesome.  So I think I was pretty excited about that.   Q.  Did you use that money for anything in particular?  MADISON KEYS: I think I went out and bought a new phone like two days later.   Q.  Can you talk about what Venus has meant for the sport and how she's inspired you in the past as a player.  MADISON KEYS: I think Venus has helped the sport, especially the women's side with equal prize money.  She was a huge part of that.  Just watching her is inspirational.  She's had her health battles.  She loves tennis.  She's still out here and she's doing it remarkably well.  I think that's inspirational.  However long, I hope I can be someone similar to that.   Q.  What do you remember about the time you played her in Charleston, and Radwanska matches you've had in the past?  MADISON KEYS: The match against Venus, I remember it was close.  I don't remember a ton about the match.  I remember I fell.  That's pretty much all I remember about that one.  And then the matches against Aga, I know they're always long, they're always tough.  I know she gets a million balls back.  So, you know, either way it's going to be a tough match.   Q.  Do you remember the time she hit a hard forehand past you?  MADISON KEYS: I do.  Seared into my brain forever.   Q.  You told us what Lindsay told you after the match the other night.  We're getting deep into the tournament.  What did she say after this important win today?  MADISON KEYS: We haven't really talked about it much.  It was more, Great job.  We went out and we hit for 10 more minutes to get a feel for the ball.  Then she told me to go celebrate, cool down, and we'll talk later.   Q.  What has the reaction been like at home?  MADISON KEYS: My mom is very excited.  One of my sisters has called me to say congratulations.  I'm pretty sure the other one doesn't even know I'm playing.  I mean, my family is really happy and excited.  But my sisters definitely keep me humble.   Q.  You got a phone with the first prize money.  This will probably be your biggest check so far.  Do you have plans?  MADISON KEYS: I'm thinking I'm going to go buy a new handbag.  Not sure which one yet.  But that will probably be my purchase.   Q.  A six-figure handbag?  MADISON KEYS: I don't think a six-figure handbag.  I'm pretty good with my money.  I told myself if I make second week, I'll go out and by a Louis Vuitton bag, which I will be doing.  I think the rest will just go in my account.   Q.  Is this tournament a relief for you that you can see you can be that good or are you getting impatient before?  MADISON KEYS: It's definitely been an experience, really playing well, kind of living up to what people have been saying.  I'm just really happy that it's finally here and that I'm doing so well.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT