AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2015
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  M. KEYS/P. Kvitova  6-4, 7-5  An interview with:  MADISON KEYS   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  I know you've been waiting for that moment for a while.  What was it like?  What were the keys for you?  MADISON KEYS: I mean, it was just one of those matches where she's obviously a great player and I knew I was going to have to play my best to beat her.  And I just tried to stay solid and consistently keep doing what I was trying to do.  Then that last game, you know, I just went out and just kept telling myself to make my first serve, and I did.  So really happy I was able to pull out that win.   Q.  What do you think you did better tonight?  MADISON KEYS: I think I was just a little bit more disciplined this time.  I think, you know, on shots that I, you know, maybe would have changed up the line or gone for a higher a shot, I was a little bit smarter, maybe played with a bigger margin.  I think that kind of helped me out.   Q.  How nervous were you?  MADISON KEYS: I was pretty nervous, but then at the same time I was also weirdly calm right before I served.  So that last game, I just, you know, stayed in the moment and kept playing the next point and didn't let myself think about it.   Q.  You broke her fairly easily today, were able to handle the pace.  Were you surprised how well you were managing all that?  MADISON KEYS: We've been working on returns a lot.  That was definitely an area that I was trying to get better.  And I think I just came in and I was so focused because I knew she had such a great serve and I knew it's such a weapon for her.  I was really just trying to get every return into play.  And I was able to do it.  I think it was just one of those nights where I was kind of feeling it and I just went with it and I didn't question it.   Q.  What does this victory do for you?  MADISON KEYS: Obviously this is my first time in the second week of a Grand Slam.  I feel good about it.  I feel like I've made a lot of improvements.  You know, all that.  But at the same time it's one of those things where I want more.  I want to keep doing better.  So I'm not really getting ahead of myself and letting myself get too excited over this.  I'm just treating it like another win.  You know, I'll have a practice again tomorrow to get ready for the next round.   Q.  What do you think of getting to play someone you know, another unseeded American in the fourth round?  Unique situation.  MADISON KEYS: Yeah, I think it's great.  We're obviously representing our name pretty well.  I mean, Maddie is a great player.  She has been around for a long time.  She's always that person that can, you know, squeak out wins.  She makes a million balls and she fights.  So I think it's exciting.  I think it's pretty cool that there's not only two Americans playing each other in the fourth round, but that we have the same name.   Q.  What means more to you, making the second week or beating the No. 4?  MADISON KEYS: I think beating Petra.  I mean, she's a really good player.  She's, you know, super tough.  The fact that I managed to stay with her and, you know, stay so disciplined and keep playing my game is what I'm most happy with.   Q.  What is the one thing Lindsay told you before the match and one thing afterwards?  MADISON KEYS: She was just telling me she has a great serve, so try to make her play as many balls as possible.  Then after the match she was telling me she got pooped on by a bird.  I saw a video of it.  Yeah, that was pretty much all we talked about after the match so far.   Q.  Are you going to go home and lie on the floor?  MADISON KEYS: Probably not.  I'm probably going to fall asleep pretty quickly.   Q.  You said when you think too much during matches, that's when things get complicated on court.  How was everything mentally for you tonight?  MADISON KEYS: I kind of felt myself getting a little ahead of myself right before I went out to serve for the match.  I just kind of took a second and, you know, got it back and was thinking, you know, one point at a time.  Just think about your serve, then think about the next ball, kind of breaking it down into, What am I going to do next.  Really having a game plan of, Don't go for anything until you have it.  It really helped me stay with how I was playing.   Q.  You were playing somebody who has won Wimbledon twice.  Did you feel any form of intimidation walking out beside her, or spending so much time with Lindsay, does that help you to overcome that kind of problem?  MADISON KEYS: I mean, obviously I have a ton of respect for her.  I think everyone does.  She's obviously won multiple Grand Slams.  So I don't think I was intimidated, though.  I have played her before.  I knew what to expect.  I knew it was going to be a hard-hitting match.  I knew she was going to be hitting big serves and things like that.  You know, I think if you walk out intimidated, then you're losing half the battle right there.   Q.  How, if at all, does your approach change in the fact that you'd be the favorite here to win this next match?  MADISON KEYS: I don't think it changes anything.  I still have to go out.  I'm still going to have a game plan.  I'm going to go out and I'm going to try to execute it.  At the end of the match, win or lose, hopefully I can come off the court and say I executed really well or I tried to execute.  Obviously I want to come off the court with a win, but it's just kind of a one step at a time.  I'm thinking of it more as a progression and not so much, you know, I have to win this next match.   Q.  Do you remember the one time you and Madison played?  MADISON KEYS: No, I don't.   Q.  US Open qualifying, 2012.  MADISON KEYS: So I was like 15.  Yeah, I don't really remember that.   Q.  Do you remember the dress you liked when you saw Venus play Wimbledon, which got you into the game?  MADISON KEYS: All I know is it was white because she was at Wimbledon.  Other than that, I cannot tell you what it looks like.   Q.  How is American women's tennis doing?  MADISON KEYS: I think it's doing pretty well, yeah.  What, there's at least four women into the fourth round.  I mean, that's big.  I think things are going in the right direction.   Q.  Madison mentioned an image that you guys shared with a door.  I couldn't quite understand what the relation was with your names.  MADISON KEYS: Maddie and I have this thing where we'll see funny pictures and send them back and forth.  I saw one where the caption is, There can only be one.  There's one girl under a door and another one is sitting on top of it.  She was all excited before the match.  She was like, You have to win so we can recreate this picture.  That was her biggest goal for me.  She was like, You have to win because I want to make sure we can have this photo.   Q.  What about playing on Rod Laver?  Feel any different at all?  MADISON KEYS: I was glad that I'd been out there before, so it wasn't a completely new experience for me.  But being a night match, it's totally different.  Being in that kind of environment, I mean, it's something that you can't even really explain.  It was amazing.   Q.  What about the fact that you've had breakthrough success here, will Melbourne always hold a special place in your heart?  MADISON KEYS: 100%.  I feel like I usually do pretty well here.  I always love coming here.  So I definitely think this will be a city that I will always have fond memories of.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT