BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 5, 2015
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. KEYS/D. Cibulkova
  7‑5, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You played very well.   Talk about it overall. 
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah, I think I played pretty well.   I definitely served well; returned pretty well for the most part.   There are a couple things I want to work on, but overall it was a good start to the year.

Q.   So talk about now you're with Lindsay.   What happened the last month or so, how that's been, what you want to do with it, all of it?
MADISON KEYS:   She's been great.   It's really cool having the perspective of someone who has gone through it, and also someone who plays similar to me.   So just having her guidance has been really helpful. 
Yeah, we've just been practicing a lot, staying low, working on movement, and I think it kind of showed today.

Q.   You feel faster?
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah, I think I feel faster.   Just a little bit more explosive.   Feel like I'm getting to couple more balls. 

Q.   That was your third win against Dominika in the three times you've played.   What do you put that down to?
MADISON KEYS:   Obviously she's a great player.   She made finals of the Open last year.   I think it's just one of those things where just kind of matches up a certain way.
I definitely usually play my best against her since she's such a great player.   So I always go in knowing she's going to get a ton of balls back and I'm going to have to play my absolute best.

Q.   In terms of your goals for this season, looking forward to the Aussie Open, anything in particular just in terms rankings position or...
MADISON KEYS:   I've never made it to the second week of a Grand Slam, so right now that's my biggest goal, making second week and kind of moving on from there.
It's also a goal of mine just to finish above where I finished last year.

Q.   Talk about this year.   Overall what's the key for you? 
MADISON KEYS:   I think consistency. 

Q.   Because last year you weren't doing exactly what you wanted to? 
MADISON KEYS:   I think last year there would be times where I would play really well and times when I did not play very well.
So I think just having a more consistent game, and when I'm not playing my best, having, you know, a B Game or C Game that isn't terrible.
I'm playing really well or I'm playing badly.   Trying to find a middle ground for the days where it's not working.

Q.   Did the conditions compromise at all underfoot?   Was it slippery?
MADISON KEYS:   It wasn't too bad, but the court gets slippery pretty quickly.   As soon as the rain kind of came in we had to stop a couple times. 
But then it dries up pretty quickly as well, so it wasn't a big deal.

Q.   Your movement laterally, is that the biggest thing you want to improve?   You're a strong girl like Lindsay as well; that was her issue as well.
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah, I definitely think my movement is a big thing for me.   I think it's something that no matter how good you get you can always get it better.
So I think in five years I'll be saying the same thing, that I want to keep getting my movement better.   I'll probably sound like a broken record, but it's the truth. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT