U.S. OPEN
August 28, 2014
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  A. KRUNIC/M. Keys  7-6, 2-6, 7-5  An interview with:  MADISON KEYS   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  Obviously a tough day at the office.  What do you think was not where you wanted it to be?  What about her game made it hard to play your best?  MADISON KEYS: Uhm, I mean, I just didn't play well when it mattered.  I played okay at times.  I played better in the second set.  But then when it really mattered, I just didn't play well. Was that like a really depressing answer or something (smiling)?   Q.  You look really upset.  MADISON KEYS: Yeah.  I don't know how you can come off the court and be happy with that, so...   Q.  Was it a lot of expectations you put on yourself?  This is a match you were supposed to win.  Is that something that made it harder than a normal match, also being your home slam?  MADISON KEYS: I don't think there's, you know, an external pressure.  I think it was just all me putting pressure on myself.  And obviously it was better than other times.  I could have completely fallen apart after having set points in the first set, but got it back. I just kind of, you know, it was kind of a rocky day all around.  Even when I was winning in the second set, it wasn't great tennis.   Q.  Do you feel like you weren't executing or your tactics weren't clear?  MADISON KEYS: I don't think I was executing as well as I wanted to.  But then I also think, especially towards the end of the third, my tactics were not good.   Q.  How do you regroup from here?  MADISON KEYS: I just, you know, have to learn from it, move on, get ready for the next tournament.  There's a couple more weeks in the year.  Hopefully end on a better note than this.   Q.  Do you feel like you struggled with the fact that she got so many balls back?  Do you think some of those balls might have been winners against another type of player?  MADISON KEYS: I think she was very consistent.  I think that was definitely her strength, especially towards the end. I don't think I played the right game against her.  I was going for too much, trying to force things that weren't there.  I definitely think I should have backed off and just tried to play a little bit slower and smarter. So, yeah, I mean, I think she played very smart.  Hopefully in the future I can learn from this and, you know, play better against it.   Q.  Do you think it's probably because you have so many weapons that it's hard to figure out how to manage it all, when to use the firepower?  MADISON KEYS: I think sometimes I try to hit my way out of situations because I know in certain times I can do that.  You know, I can get away with it. Then sometimes like today it backfires on me.  You know, I just have to get better at realizing I can't hit myself out of every situation and I have to figure out another way to, you know, figure out the match and try to win.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT