US OPEN
August 27, 2019
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. KEYS/M. Doi
7-5, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Quick finish in the second set. How do you view the win?
MADISON KEYS: Very happy. Obviously tough first set. I think she played really well in the first set. I think I raised my level in the second. Happy to win in straight sets.
Q. How tough is that wait when you're the second night match, the person who is up two sets loses the third? What goes through your mind?
MADISON KEYS: I feel like I have a lot of experience in that time slot from the last couple of years. I mean, you can't do anything about it. You just have to wait, keep warming up. Just hopefully you get on early and finish quickly.
Q. Does it feel like momentum from Cincy? Once you're on the court, does it feel like you're doing a lot of the same things you were doing right over the last couple weeks?
MADISON KEYS: There's definitely a lot of things that it's easy to remember what I was doing well, how to do those things, all of that. In that case then, yes. But definitely kind of leaving that in the past and just focusing on US Open as a fresh start.
Q. What about her game today was giving you trouble? What did you do to adjust in the second set?
MADISON KEYS: I think she's really tough because she hits so flat and so fast. She likes to take the angles away. The first couple of games I was obviously struggling with that a little bit.
I think once I figured out how I wanted to play her and kind of try to go through the middle, more get her off the baseline, things started working for me a little bit better.
Q. How tough is it at this point when you have no idea about your next opponent?
MADISON KEYS: It's always tough when you play someone for the first time. You don't really know their game style. My coach got to watch some of her today, so going to rely on him a lot. Hopefully I can find some stuff online so I just kind of know what is coming.
Q. What sort of stuff do you watch on YouTube? Specific matches? Highlights? What do you feel you take from that?
MADISON KEYS: I think if you have a bunch of options of matches, you look for a match where the opponent with a similar game style as you. If you don't have that, I think you look for highlights, you try to pick what does their serve look like, their forehand, just so you're not surprised.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT