WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2014
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Obviously tough luck.   Talk us through where things started to feel off for you during the match or before the match.   
MADISON KEYS:   Obviously before the match I had the other leg taped.   That was just precaution.   It was tight.   I didn't want it to go.   
Middle of the second set I kind of felt something a little bit.   I was thinking, you know, Try to get through the set, maybe it could finish, have the next day to recover, try to get better.   
Then I think it was the like 3‑2 game, I was serving.   I just felt it really go.   After that it was pretty painful.   
   
 Q.   What is the prognosis?   
MADISON KEYS:   I have a muscle strain in my adductor.   It's not terrible, not really long recovery time.   But they were warning me it could get worse, make recovery time even less longer [sic].   
   
 Q.   What was happening on Saturday evening?   Were you both happy to play?   You played on until it was almost dark while on Court1 the match was called off 40 minutes before yours.   From that, were you both happy to play on?  
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, I believe she said something about it getting darker after the first set.   I mentioned something.   And then again I mentioned something at 5‑4.   She said we could play a little bit longer.   Then at 6‑5 she told me it had to be on an even game, so we just played the one more game.  
   
 Q.   You were perfectly happy to carry on playing as late as you did, because it was very dark at that stage?  
MADISON KEYS:   Yes, I think the umpires, the lines judges were having a hard time making the best calls.   I think one of them commented that he didn't even know because it was so dark.   
But, you know, I mean, we both played.   Obviously, you know, we were both still playing pretty well, so I think we were okay.   
   
 Q.   Most 19‑year‑old Americans who come to England are pretty excited, House of Commons...   How would you describe your trip to England this year?  
MADISON KEYS:   I think this is my third or fourth time, and I've never been to London.   I've never seen anything other than Wimbledon.   I've done nothing in London.   
I really wish that I had, but I haven't.   
   
 Q.   They have pretty good theater.   
MADISON KEYS:   I hear that.   I feel like for me Wimbledon is the end of a long trip.   Once I'm done I'm usually on on a plane headed back home.   
   
 Q.   What will your general assessment be of your time here tennis‑wise?  
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, there's definitely lots of improvement.   Really happy that I was able to title last week.   That was a really big tournament, especially for my first one.   
Yeah, you know, just lots of positives to go off of.   Just have to go and get ready for the US Open Series.   
   
 Q.   Back to the light situation the other night.   Do you think if Hawk‑Eye is not working, then the match should probably be called?   It doesn't work when it gets too dark.   
MADISON KEYS:   If Hawk‑Eye can't see the ball, then maybe our human eyes can't see the ball great either.   
But, I mean, then again, it's up to the supervisors.   If they think we can play, then we play.   
   
 Q.   But how do you personally feel?  
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, honestly it wasn't until the last game I served at 5‑6, it was almost 10:00, I could not see anything.   
But at that point in order to stop we had to get to an even game.   I mean, at that point it was really too late, so...   
   
 Q.   When did you finally decide, I'm not going to be able to play?   Did you wake up thinking you would try?  
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, I came in this morning and I had lots of tape on and I tried, but I couldn't get through warmup.   Decided to call it this morning.   
   
 Q.   You tried to warm up?  
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah, I tried to.   I tried.   I had so much tape on me I could barely walk.   It just wasn't happening.   
   
 Q.   If I could ask you a broader question about your generation of tennis players, young women.   How would you describe the level of confidence and belief among you and your peers that you're ready to challenge for a place in the second week, ideally the top 10, top 20 of the game, and beat someone like Serena?  
MADISON KEYS:   Uhm, I mean, I definitely think there's another generation kind of coming through now.   You saw it at the French Open with the big upsets.   
I kind of thing we're all gaining a little bit of confidence from each other.   We see, She's doing it, maybe I can go out and do it.   
I definitely think there's kind of a new group coming up right now.   
   
 Q.   What has your level shown you about your potential and what confidence does that give you?  
MADISON KEYS:   I'm definitely feeling pretty confident and pretty happy with where I'm going right now.   I mean, I've slowly but surely gotten a little bit better every tournament, every match.   
I feel like I'm starting to really figure out my game, so definitely getting more and more confident.   
   
 Q.   What do you foresee in terms of your potential?   
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, I would love to sit here after a Grand Slam win and everything.   But obviously I can't, you know, sit here and tell you that I'm going to.   But it's definitely a goal of mine.   
   
 Q.   What do you think in terms of recovery time?   Have you heard?   Your next tournament is probably Washington.   That's in about a month.   Do you think that should be enough time to get back?  
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah, definitely.   They're telling me, you know, about two weeks of rehab, taking it easy, not going crazy, which will be difficult.   
But, yeah, it's not a super long recovery time.   
   
 Q.   Because this is a loss technically, but a pretty big asterisk, do you still have the confidence of having won all these matches in a row, that it will keep going once you step back?  
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah, you know, I'm playing D.C.   I think that first match, it's always nerve‑wracking when you've had some time off and things like that.   But definitely going to just try to keep the confidence, remember what I've been doing.   
   
 Q.   So when you say 'not going crazy,' what's going crazy, in your book?  
MADISON KEYS:   I feel like even at the end of the year we're all excited about taking time off and not playing tennis.   About four days into it you're like, Okay, I'm ready, it's been long enough.   I don't know what to do.   
It will be difficult to not be out playing in a couple of days.   
   
 Q.   In Eastbourne you were saying your love of grass was way up there and everything else was way down there.   How are you going to readjust with the hard court season?   
MADISON KEYS:   I'm still a big fan of hard court.   So, you know, definitely excited to get back on the hard courts.   Really excited that the US Open Series is starting up.   
You know, just really going to try to keep the momentum going from here.   
   
 Q.   How did it feel after the high of Eastbourne to kind of one Saturday on, you're coming off the court in a state where it seemed like you were close to tears?   That must have been quite difficult for you.   
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah, it was more like I was trying not to bawl my eyes out.   I think there were some tears.   
I mean, it's definitely not how I want to be leaving Wimbledon, but it happens.   You know, just have to take it in stride, just accept it, just try to get better.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you've learnt a lot over the last week or so?  
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah, no, I have.   It's always great, you know, to be at Wimbledon, playing in Wimbledon.   I've just got to learn from the things that happened, the good and the bad, just try to use it for the hard courts.   
   
 Q.   It's been a long stretch in Europe, now England.   What is the first thing you're doing when you get home?  
MADISON KEYS:   I think I'm going to have to stop by McDonald's and get a large sweet tea.   I think it is the biggest thing I miss when I'm here.   
   
 Q.   There's McDonald's here.   
MADISON KEYS:   But they don't have sweet tea.   I visit it so much I know it's exactly $1.06 for a large sweet tea.   
   
 Q.   Venus and Serena once had a McDonald's endorsement.   Some people associated with your agent have huge contracts.   Would you like to get a McDonald's contract?  
MADISON KEYS:   I don't think I need a McDonald's contract.   If I could have a lifetime supply of sweet tea, though, I'd be happy.   
   
 Q.   If you don't mind revisiting the moment of tears, can you explain, were you crying because of the actual pain or was it more the realization that your body was not holding up?  
MADISON KEYS:   I think it was a little bit of both.   It was definitely mostly pain, but it was also realizing, you know, this hurts really badly, I don't know what's going to happen.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT