AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 19, 2014
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. KEYS/L. Davis
  6‑2, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   I bet you were happy to get that out of the way. 
MADISON KEYS:   Yes.   You know, I lost that return game, and I could see the clouds coming.   I was like, Okay, focus, get this game done. 
Yeah, just really happy I was able to get it done before the rain.

Q.   Obviously you're facing Heather next.   You're going to have a crowd of people not wanting you to win.   How are you going to approach this game?
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, you're used to it.   Obviously you have been in situations where the crowd is against you. 
Even when I was walking back from here today, someone goes, Hey, good job.   I hope you lose tomorrow.
I was like, Thank you.   (Laughter.) 

Q.   Like, I love you too? 
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah (smiling).   Yeah, it's expected.   Obviously she's playing really well, so it will be a good match.

Q.   At least they are polite about it?
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah, at least he's honest (smiling). 

Q.   A semifinal on grass.   Where would you rank grass as your favorite surface? 
MADISON KEYS:   It's like way up here.   Everything else is like down here.

Q.   Even hard court?
MADISON KEYS:   Even hard court, yes. 

Q.   You have been practicing with Lauren in Nottingham.   How hard is it to play against your friend?
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, it's always difficult, but at the same time we have done it so much.   I mean, this is like the fourth or fifth all‑American matchup so far this European season, so I feel like we're getting quite used to it.
I mean, it's always tough, but, you know, you just have to do it.

Q.   How much control do you feel like you have over your game?   I mean, obviously you're playing so well here, and then, no offense, but sometimes you have days when... 
MADISON KEYS:   I suck?   Is that what you're trying to say?   (Laughter.) 

Q.   Something like that, but something more tactful I was going for.   But do you feel like you understand why that happens?   Like you know that there are certain things that you need to do in preparation and you'll play well, and if you don't do them you'll play badly?   Or does it feel like... 
MADISON KEYS:   There are definitely days where I feel like it's just the entire universe is against me and doesn't want me to win.
But I'm getting better, and there is not really as many matches where I walk off the court and think, I have no idea what just happened.
But, yeah, there is definitely still days where I go out and I feel like I can't hit the ball in the stadium.   Hopefully that's not tomorrow (smiling).   But I'm definitely working on it and trying to get a better hold of my game.

Q.   What are your thoughts about playing Heather tomorrow?
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, we know each other really well.   We played each other last year at Wimbledon.   It was a close match.   She's obviously been playing very well.   I think it will just be a really close match.

Q.   Is there a point at which it becomes kind of difficult to focus on being here because you know that sort of everybody else is already at Wimbledon?
MADISON KEYS:   Yes and no.   I mean, you're definitely thinking, okay, the Wimbledon draw is coming out soon and you're seeing more and more people at Wimbledon getting ready and all of that, but at the same time, you're so focused on what you're doing right now and just, you know, really just trying to get ready for your next match.   It's not so much.

Q.   Obviously the draw is coming out tomorrow, but you potentially have a final ahead of you on Saturday.   Will you pay any attention to the draw or will you forget about it until it's time to look at it?
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah, no, I definitely won't look at the draw until I'm completely done here and really just preparing for Wimbledon.

Q.   And then find out, like, Oh, by the way, you've drawn Serena?
MADISON KEYS:   Exactly.   That would be great (smiling).

Q.   Do you look at draws in general?
MADISON KEYS:   I'll look to see who I play and I will occasionally look to see if there are any interesting matchups, but, I mean, we have a new draw every single week.   It's kind of luck of the draw every week.

Q.   Is there anyone you really want to avoid at Wimbledon?
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, obviously Serena, Sharapova, Halep, any of the top four players.
I think everyone in the tournament just looks at the very top of the draw and the very bottom of the draw, and you're like, Okay, if I don't play 1 or 2, now I can somewhat breathe.

Q.   But if you were to draw her, would you go in and treat it like any other match, especially being an American?
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah, it's another match.   Obviously if we were to draw Serena, she's an amazing player and she obviously does really well.

Q.   But she is vulnerable.   That was proven at France. 
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah, everyone‑‑ it's possible to beat everyone on a certain day.   So, you know, you just have to go in and try your best and see what happens.

Q.   With the carnage of the seeds in France, does that give the young and up‑and‑coming pack hope that actually you can topple the big names?
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah.   I mean, I think it was a huge eye‑opener for everyone just kind of there is this new generation coming up and there is a lot of really good girls right now.
You know, no matter who you're drawing in tournaments, there is always an opportunity.

Q.   Wozniacki was a bit angry about some calls today.   Can you remember the angriest you've ever been on court?
MADISON KEYS:   I can remember.   I don't think I want to tell you what happened, though.   (Laughter.)

Q.   You can't leave it there.   You're going to have to tell us now. 

Q.   Have you ever broken a racquet?
MADISON KEYS:   On court?   Accidently on court.

Q.   What about off court? 
MADISON KEYS:   Maybe. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT