AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 17, 2014
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. KEYS/J. Jankovic
  6‑3, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Welcome back to grass. 
MADISON KEYS:   Thanks (smiling). 

Q.   Very nice win obviously today.   Second top‑10 win of your career.   A pretty non‑drama one, I think.   What are your thoughts about that match?
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, it was pretty, just really solid, wasn't playing out of my mind or anything like that.   But, yeah, I think after the first couple of games I served really well and I was returning pretty well.   I felt like I was just taking time away really well.

Q.   She was getting really angry.   Do you kind of pay attention to that when they get mad?   Are you thinking, yeah, keep getting mad?   Or do you just focus on yourself?
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, obviously you can't completely ignore them.   You hear what's going on on the other side, but you're mostly focused on yourself, and, you know, keeping with it.
But at the same time it's kind of ‑‑it kind of keeps you going and everything, knowing you're getting to them and they're kind of starting to lose it.

Q.   You had a tough match, a very close match against Sara Errani in Paris who could be seen as a similar player as Jankovic, plays a similar sort of game.   What made the difference between that match and this match?   The surface?   Was it that you were having a good day?
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah, no, grass helps a little bit.   Obviously grass is a faster surface and it's one that I feel a little bit more comfortable on.
I had a lot of opportunities against Errani, and, you know, it was definitely a match that I'm trying to build off of and keep playing like that against players like that. 
So it was just really, you know, having a game plan and going in and executing it well.

Q.   I remember seeing you train with John Evert when you were smaller.   When did you first get on a grass court?   They don't have many in America.   When did you first get on a grass court?
MADISON KEYS:   Probably three years ago, I think. 

Q.   And you liked it instantly, did you?   Or did you take time to adjust?
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, the first time it was a little odd and just it being so different and never having played on it, but after that, I just always loved playing on grass.

Q.   What do you tell yourself when you transition from clay and you step on grass for the first time for practicing?   Technically or tactically what changes in your mind?
MADISON KEYS:   You're definitely trying to take time away more on grass.   You know, you're not going to hit as much spin.   You're going to try to hit through the court a lot more.
Just really having short preparation and really accelerating and just kind of always trying to watch the ball, because if you get behind in a point you're pretty much done.

Q.   You're obviously still a very young player.   Do you still feel like a newcomer on the tour or do you feel like you've started to find your feet and it's what you're used to now?
MADISON KEYS:   I'm getting more and more used to it, but it's still only my second full year on the tour.   There is definitely some ups and some downs, and it's to be expected.
But definitely getting more and more comfortable and feeling like I'm not as new on the tour.

Q.   A lot of your generation are looking good.   Do you feel like there's a new wave in the women's game?   Are you friends with your sort of rivals, teenagers at that sort of age?
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah.   I mean, I think there is a big group of girls that are just really doing well.   Obviously you can see from the French Open there was a lot of upsets from kind of the new generation and all of that.
Yeah, I mean, we do really get along, for the most part.   I don't really know of anyone who has an issue with anyone else.
I mean, it's nice.   It's just‑‑ you know, we're slowly kind of making our own way on the tour.

Q.   A lot of times it seems like players find their second year on the tour harder than the first year because the first year is new and everything that you achieve is exciting and it's never happened before.   Are you finding it more difficult this year now that you have things to defend?
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah.   I mean, they always say the sophomore year is the hardest year of anything, and there has definitely been some really down moments so far. 
But then, at the same time, I have to kind of look and see that I have gotten so much better and I have improved on a lot of things.   That's still really exciting.
You know, I just want to keep improving, so kind of just have to not think about the results and defending and things like that and just really think about am I getting better and will this help me in my career in the long run.

Q.   Are there any particular moments you can point to that have been, you know, tough ones for you this year? 
MADISON KEYS:   Last week wasn't very fun (smiling).   That kind of sucked.
I mean, obviously there has just been a couple of matches so far this year, like losing second round in Australia, losing to Errani at the French, and then last week.
So, yeah, no, there's definitely days where they're not very fun.

Q.   What helps you to keep perspective when you're going through those, when you're, you know, back in the locker room after a tough match?
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, you just have to remember there is another one next week.   Last week I didn't play very well, and I thought it was, you know, a really, really bad match.
Then this week I go out and I play like I did today.   Just always have to kind of keep it in perspective and know that you have another one next week.

Q.   Do you like England?
MADISON KEYS:   Yes, I do. 

Q.   Where would it rank?
MADISON KEYS:   See, people always ask that and I always tell them I don't get to get out much, so it's really, you know, my hotel, the tennis courts, dinner, and then that's all I get to see.
But no, it's definitely nice coming from a long trip where I didn't understand anything that was being said around me.

Q.   Have you tried any English food?
MADISON KEYS:   I tried fish and chips.   Big fan.   Not proper English fish and chips.

Q.   (Indiscernible.)
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah. 

Q.   How late did you stay up last night?   Did you watch the soccer game at all?
MADISON KEYS:   I was watching.   I watched almost the whole first half.   My heart broke a little bit for Jozy.   That had to hurt.   Then what's‑his‑face got kicked in the nose.   That wasn't very good.   I was a little worried for a little bit.
Once I knew he was back on the field and Ghana wasn't taking out all of our top players, I felt pretty confident.

Q.   You watched to the end or you went to bed?
MADISON KEYS:   No, no, I went to bed.   I wouldn't have been able to stay awake today.

Q.   Is that the first football game you have watched?
MADISON KEYS:   This week is the first time I have watched a full football game, and I still am not a huge fan, but I'm getting more and more into it as the World Cup goes on.

Q.   It's been interesting seeing a lot of Americans who don't really watch football watching it.   Some people are, That's dumb.   Are you one of those people?
MADISON KEYS:   There is a couple of times where I just don't understand what's going on.   I'm just like, Wait, why does he have a free kick?   Why is the other guy rolling on the ground?   No one touched him.   (Laughter.)   Things like that.

Q.   What's your favorite sport besides tennis?
MADISON KEYS:   I like American football.

Q.   What's more violent, American football or European football?
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, I feel like American football is, but the dramatics are definitely higher in European football. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT