FEDCUP WORLD GROUP PLAY-OFFS: FRANCE v U.S.A.
April 19, 2014
Mary Joe Fernandez
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. KEYS/A. Cornet
  6‑7, 7‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Mary Joe and Madison.  
   
 Q.   Congratulations, Madison.   First Fed Cup victory.   Tell us a little bit about it.   
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah, just really excited to get that win and get up on the board.  
You know, I thought I played okay in the first set; had a couple chances that I missed.   Really dug deep in the second set, and thought I played pretty well in the third to be able to close it out.   
   
 Q.   I know she was bothered by something here, but what do you think you did to like take her out of it?  
CAPTAIN FERNANDEZ:   I think, you know, I was being aggressive and taking time away and really looking for my forehand and just keeping the pressure on.   
Yeah, that's probably what I was doing best today.  
   
 Q.   Mary Joe, your thoughts?   1‑1.   For a while there it looked like it could be 0‑2.  
CAPTAIN FERNANDEZ:   Yeah, I mean, that's thing about any match, especially when you play Fed Cup.   You never know.   Just have to keep plugging away.  
Madison was doing a lot of the right things and had a lot of games that could have gone her way in both sets early on.  
So my whole thing is I knew she could win every game out there.   She was playing the right way and she was cutting of the angles and taking the ball early.   
 It was just a matter of getting them to be in a row and winning those important games.   Once she did that, then she started to dictate and really dominate.  
 Q.   And your thoughts on Sloane?   She didn't play badly.   
CAPTAIN FERNANDEZ:   No, I have to say, you know, you think the turning point was early in the first set.   She had the game point to go up 3‑1.   The girl had a great return up the middle deep, but didn't seem like she gave her a lot of time.   It was Garcia who took the ball early and cut off the angles.  
Sloane was having to defend a lot and not impose her game.   
 So it was tough, because seemed like everything Sloane threw at her she had an answer.   So, yeah, we'll have to regroup and think about a little bit more strategy against Garcia.   She was definitely very hot today.  
 Q.   Now, do you go back and discuss things and think about tomorrow?  
CAPTAIN FERNANDEZ:   Yeah, yeah.   Everybody goes back and eats a little dinner, gets a little hopefully massage, and we'll talk about the matchups and all the possibilities.   Sloane and Madison can talk about what they thought about their opponents, and then we'll prepare to go again tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Madison, down 4‑1 I think the unofficial count was around 94 unforced errors.   How did you find it in yourself to keep digging and know that you had to there to get past her?  
MADISON KEYES:   Well, firstly not counting unforced errors, because that's a really high number.   God.  
CAPTAIN FERNANDEZ:   They're not counting them very well here because Garcia had like 25 and I did not see more than like 5.  
MADISON KEYS:   Okay.   That makes me feel a little bit better.  
I mean, she was playing well; she was making a lot of balls; she was making me play.   I felt like I was doing the right things.   I was maybe a step off or not having a big enough target.  
But at the same time, I was doing the right things and going for the right shots.   So, you know, kind of just taking a step back and having bigger targets and trusting myself and going for it and just continue to it, because that's the way that I play best.   
   
 Q.   Mary Joe you touched on Garcia.   Madison, how well do you think she played today?  
MADISON KEYS:   Garcia?   I saw a little bit didn't see a ton of it.   For some reason the locker rooms don't have the matches playing.   No, I was staring at the score.  
CAPTAIN FERNANDEZ:   Maybe that's a good thing.  
MADISON KEYS:   The whole time.   It was making me crazy.   
Obviously she's a great player.   I mean, she just won a title and she's been playing really, really well.  
Obviously to beat Sloane she had to have been playing well.   I'm sure tomorrow will be a good match.   
   
 Q.   Madison, just wondering when it appeared she was hurting a little bit, was there a sense from you to go for the kill and take advantage of some of the things she was having trouble with?   
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, definitely when you see someone doing that you're thinking, Keep the pressure on; keep going for it; keep doing your things.  
But at the same time not overly thinking about them, more focusing on yourself and not getting too involved with what's happening with them.   
THE MODERATOR:   Any other questions?   
All right.   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT