SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 23, 2014
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. LI/M. Keys
  7‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Was that an object lesson examine in the difference between playing well and playing well and winning?  
MADISON KEYS:   Well, yeah.   I mean, she's No. 2 in the world for a reason.   She just won Australian Open for a reason.   She's a great player.   
You know, I played well at times, and she just played the bigger points, you know, really, really well.  
So, I mean, there is a lot to be happy with, but there is also some stuff I need to work on.   That's what I'm going to go do.  
   
 Q.   How do you work on big points in practice?   That seems like more of a you‑have‑to‑be‑there sort of thing to learn.   
MADISON KEYS:   Well, I mean, I think it's probably just experience, being out there and doing it over and over again.   But also, in practice, just, you know, doing your best to stay focused at every ball that's coming at you.   
 I think that kind of gets you in a habit of when you're in a match not letting the moment get to you.  
 Q.   What's it like now you're like a professional and everything?   I have seen you play as a kid.   You were at the countries Evert Academy.   What's like the difference now from when you were in juniors growing up and then now you're playing people like Serena Williams and Na Li today?  
MADISON KEYS:   Well, I mean, I think in a way it's kind of similar.   You know, you're doing the tour.   You know, that was the junior tour; now it's the women's tour.  
I think the biggest difference is, you know, in tight moments in the juniors, the other player would usually kind of fall apart a little bit.   
 And like today, it was a tight moment and she was just ‑‑she raised her level.   So, you know, it's just getting better at being able to handle players raising their level.  
 Q.   What does she do well that really impresses you?  
MADISON KEYS:   I think she moves incredibly.   She's all over the court.   She's also very aggressive.   She takes time away.   
 So I think that was definitely what she was doing well today.  
 Q.   Your own movement seems to be very good these days.   Is there a growth‑related factor?   Do they tell you that, for instance, as you grow you're going to be a better mover as a player, or is there any biology to that that we're not aware of or physiology?  
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, I think it's kind of just growing into your body (smiling).   
I mean, at 16, 17, I was not the greatest mover (smiling).   
 So, you know, getting older and just being more comfortable moving around the court, and also just working on it all the time is definitely, I think, what helps you start moving better.  
 Q.   Does it make you change your tactics at all when you realize you will be able to get back more balls or get to balls earlier?   Because like you say, now a liability is not so much anymore.   
MADISON KEYS:   I think sometimes it's more like surprising.   Like, Whoa, I got to that.   I have to go to another one (smiling).   
So, I mean, I think it's kind of that, but it's also more of a confidence.   You have more of a confidence in it knowing it's not a liability and knowing you can get to pretty much any ball and you can move.  
You know, so I think you're more comfortable and you have some more options.  
   
 Q.   What were the things that you did today that you're happy about?   Like you were up 2‑All in the second set; you broke her several times in the first set.   
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, I definitely think at times I was doing a good job at taking time away, moving forward a little bit better, and looking for my forehand.  
My serve was a little bit up and down today.   But, I mean, overall I think I did a good job of staying in the moment, you know, and really staying positive the whole time and just trying to stay in the match and make her play.  
   
 Q.   You seem pretty upbeat.   I have seen you after some losses fairly sad.   But this one you seem...   
MADISON KEYS:   I'm growing (smiling).   
Yeah, no, I mean, definitely getting better at that.   You know, not making everything you're on top of the world or it's awful, you know.   Finding that middle ground of, You did some things well; you did some things you can work on.  
 So, yeah, I'm getting better at that.  
 Q.   Is this something you learned yourself?   Not everything is black and white with a loss.   Or is it something coaches have helped you with?  
MADISON KEYS:   I think it's a little bit of both.   I mean, partially realizing there is another tournament next week, you know, you can go and you can work on stuff and you can get better.  
But then it's also just looking back three years ago and remembering these devastating losses and realizing, I'm here right now.   You know, the world didn't end.   I didn't have to quit tennis.   You know, life continues.  
   
 Q.   Adolescence is full of drama.   Teenagers are particularly, a lot of drama.   Tennis can be a fairly dramatic game.   Is it sometimes overwhelming for you?   Have you managed that in your personal life as well as your tennis life?  
MADISON KEYS:   Well, I know for personal life I'm very drama‑free.   (Smiling).   You know, I keep it out of my life and it stays pretty calm.  
I think in tennis, for the most part, it's pretty drama‑free, especially getting older and, you know, and not taking losses as hard.  
But, I mean, especially on the court, trying to keep it as drama‑free as possible, although there are times it's going to happen, is kind of the way it's going to go.  
   
 Q.   What do you take out of this particular match as a learning experience as far as dealing with those big moments that you talked about before?  
MADISON KEYS:   You know, I mean, all credit to her, especially on my set points.   She completely went for the ball and was hitting winners.  
 So, I mean, just almost in a way learning from her a little bit.   You know, going for your shots, believing in yourself, and just really going after it and not playing passive.  
 Q.   I know you're a baseline player, but your balls were incredibly deep.   You really did keep her away from the net, which I think she's trying to do that more and more.   Was that part of your strategy before you came out was to keep her deep?  
MADISON KEYS:   Well, I mean, she's a great mover.   She likes to come forward.  
You know, she really takes time away, and you can tell she's definitely working on that more and more.  
So, yeah, for sure trying to keep her deep and keep her moving and not comfortable was part of the plan.  
   
 Q.   You said there is a tournament next week, so you're playing Charleston again?  
MADISON KEYS:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   Last year you lost to Venus in a tough three‑setter.   How did you feel‑‑ like how is it playing her?   What do you think is going to happen this year?   Or what do you expect your result to be?  
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, first tournament on clay court.   Just really wanting to go out there and have a good start to the clay season and just really feel comfortable on clay.   
Obviously it would be great if I could get, you know, get farther in the tournament again.  
So that's the goal.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT