APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 8, 2014
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. KEYS/B. Mattek‑Sands
  3‑2 (ret.)

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   I'm sure you were looking forward to the match.   Kind of disappointed it ended that way?
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah, I mean, Bethanie and I always have great matches.   It's always kind of not great when you can't finish a whole match.
I just hope she's better for next week. 

Q.   You've had a good week this week.   Coming in last week a little bit tough in the first round, but it seems like you found your form, yeah?   Talk about that. 
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah, I mean, first match of the season and wasn't completely there.   You know, maybe wasn't ready. 
But, you know, worked on some things, got ready, and so far it's been pretty good here. 

Q.   You're now through to the semifinals.   How much confidence has this week given you to take forward next week regardless of what happens from here on?
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah, first semifinal in a Premier event, so very excited about that.   Definitely a confidence booster.   Just trying to keep building from this and, you know, hopefully keep doing well all year. 

Q.   What do you know about who you'll be playing next?   Will you watch the match?
MADISON KEYS:   I've played Kerber last year in Australia, and I just played Suarez Navarro in Tokyo.   So I know both of their games.   Whoever wins, it's going to be a tough match.   I'm excited for it. 

Q.   How much progress do you feel like you've made in your game in the off‑season?   Obviously at your age you expect to improve quite rapidly.   Do you feel like that's what's happening with you?
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah, I think off‑season was good.   Fitness‑wise and tennis‑wise we worked on a bunch of things and I got better and improved, which is the whole point of the off‑season.
I'm happy with it, and hoping that I just continue to do well and keep building off what I worked so hard on during the off‑season. 

Q.   I wasn't going to asking anything, but I'll just ask, you're a big hitter and you have a big serve.   Do you feel you've got the makings for top 5 or even higher sometime soon?
MADISON KEYS:   I would like to think so.   (Smiling.)
I mean, that's definitely my goal.   I'm going to keep doing everything that I can in order to get there.   You know, that's all you can really do. 

Q.   Either of those players‑ well, Suarez doesn't really play like Kerber, but if you get someone like Kerber, the veteran players kind of grind you.   Radwanska I know is a different type of player but likes move you around.   Maybe that's one of the challenges this year, figuring out how to beat the veteran players and stay in there with them?
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah, for sure.   I think I did okay last year in those, but definitely could have done better.   You know, been working on it.   That's a big goal for me this year:   Figuring out how to play people like that who grind and get through matches like that.

Q.   How big was that mentally for you to pull out the tiebreak over the 18‑year‑old Croatian the other day?   That was a long, backcourt match. 
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah, we train together so we play each other all the time.   It's always a tough match.
She played well, and I was just really happy to be able to kind of get my focus and figure it out at the very end.

Q.   Every year in Australia there are some players who have made more progress in the off‑season than others.   They sometimes catch more experienced players napping.   Jelena Jankovic was an obvious one who started really well a few years ago and took that through the season and ended up as No. 1.   Sloane Stevens has come through well here; Li Na a few years ago as well.   Do you feel like there's an opportunity for you to make some good gains in the rankings by getting off to a flying start in Australia?
MADISON KEYS:   I think I it's possible.   I'm not really focused on the rankings so much.   More just focused on getting a good start to the year and kind of building up more match momentum just so that I feel more confident and better for the rest of the year. 

Q.   Obviously the match momentum is what comes first and the ranking follows that.   You don't to think about the ranking.   If you win enough matches, that automatically happens, right?
MADISON KEYS:   Exactly. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT