BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 9, 2013
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. STOSUR/M. Keys
  6‑3, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What do you learn from a day like today, competing on a big court and then in this atmosphere against a player like Sam who has a Grand Slam title?  
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, I think it's such a great learning experience.   You know, I think I did a lot of things pretty well.   There are some things that I need to work on, and, you know, I think ‑‑I mean, especially my returns.   I think if I was returning better today, you know, maybe I could have made the match a little bit tighter.   
You know, go back, work on those, and, you know, move on to the next tournament.  
   
 Q.   Do you walk away feeling like, yeah, I belong there; it's just a couple of little things?  
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah, I mean, I think I played well today.   I think I served pretty well.   And, you know, it wasn't a great match, but I think I improved a lot after the first match.  
So, you know, just getting better every day.  
   
 Q.   When you play these matches against the top women, what's the gap that you see?   Like when you look at your game and say, Okay, the first thing that comes to mind is like, I've got to get better.   Is it consistency or...   
MADISON KEYS:   I think they do such a great job under pressure.   Like there was times when it was 30‑All on her serve and she made her first serve and would have a forehand.   I would miss the first serve, and then super nervous on the second serve.  
So I think, you know, just playing the right shots on important points.  
   
 Q.   On the nerves issue, is that something that you kind of always, you know, had like when you were a junior as well, or is this more just now that you're a pro and playing these top girls is that when you're feeling it?  
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, I think everyone has nerves all the time.   If you're not nervous then you probably don't really care about the match very much.   (Smiling.)  
But, I mean, I think they are a good thing.   I think they can help you really focus.   And it's just having the good nerves and the bad nerves and trying to get rid of the bad nerves.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel like the crowd was ‑‑there was some discussion whether it was more for her or you, and thinking, Well, it should be pro‑Madison because it's America.   But then Sam is a US Open winner.   Did you even notice?  
MADISON KEYS:   I wasn't really paying attention, honestly.   (Smiling.)  
But, I mean, she obviously has her own huge fan base.   She won a Grand Slam; she's top 10.   I mean, I wasn't paying attention, but when ‑‑it wouldn't surprise me if there were lots of fans for Sam.  
   
 Q.   This tournament, would you call it a success for you basically, what you've done here so far?   Does it make you feel positive about the rest of the season?  
MADISON KEYS:   For sure.   I think ‑‑I mean, especially looking back at last year's Indian Wells and just looking at the improvement that I've made since then, I think it's a good thing for me.   Really just gonna try to keep getting better and better.  
   
 Q.   Everyone wants to make it to a Grand Slam.   How important was it to win the Aussie Open playoff?   I think you beat Mallory in the final, if I remember correctly.   
MADISON KEYS:   That was great for me.   Being able to be in the main draw of Australia and not have to play through the quallies and everything, I think it was great.   I think being able to play Sydney the week before and just get a lot of matches really helped me out.  
   
 Q.   We're still getting to know you as both a player and a person, but just what makes you special?   What, as a person, is the most interesting thing about you?  
MADISON KEYS:   Um, you know, people are always really surprised when I say this, but I love country music.   (Smiling.)  
But, I mean, I think I'm just pretty laid back, don't take things too seriously, and, you know, just really love the game.  
   
 Q.   Your favorite country music performers are?   
MADISON KEYS:   There are so many.  
   
 Q.   Top three or four will do.   
MADISON KEYS:   Carrie Underwood, Luke Bryan, and Hunter Hayes.  
   
 Q.   How did you not become a lawyer?   With two parents who were a lawyer, did they...   
MADISON KEYS:   Since I was younger I always told my parents, I'm going to go to law school and become a lawyer.   They were like, No.   Don't do it.   Don't do it.   (Laughter.)  
Then learning, as I got older, realizing how much school you had to go through to become a lawyer, I'm like, No, not my thing.   
   
 Q.   How did your parents come up with the name Madison?  
MADISON KEYS:   You know, I think my mom said she was watching the movie Splash and the mermaid in it is named Madison.   She loves the name so she named me after a mermaid.  
   
 Q.   Has that bothered you psychologically over the years you have been named after a mermaid?  
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, I think it's pretty cool.  
   
 Q.   Did you watch the movie ever?  
MADISON KEYS:   I did.   I love the move.  
   
 Q.   Who was the star?   
MADISON KEYS:   Tom Hanks was in it, wasn't he?   
   
 Q.   Here's a good segue:   How much of a splash do you think you made in Australia?   And with all the attention you drew, how did that feel to you that you had such accolades in the American media?  
MADISON KEYS:   I thought I had a really good couple weeks down in Australia and wasn't really thinking so much about the media attention.   Just, I mean, sometimes you can get lost in all the things and you start hearing things and you get nervous.   
But I think ‑‑I mean, I think it was great.   I think it was ‑‑I mean, it was first time that I had all that media attention, and, I mean, I loved it.   It was lots of fun.  
You know, it would be nice to keep it going, because obviously, I mean, that means I'm doing well, but just really at the same time just trying to focus on tennis.  
   
 Q.   What's your dream?   What do you hope to do eventually in this game?  
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, it would be nice if I could win a couple Grand Slams and be No. 1.   
   
 Q.   How did you feel about the crowd out there today, the support for you?  
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, I thought the crowd was great.   You know, I wasn't really paying attention on who they were cheering for.   I mean, honestly when you're playing you don't even really hear it.  
Didn't really bother me either way.  
   
 Q.   How tall are you now?   Have you grown at all in the last year?  
MADISON KEYS:   In shoes I think I'm 5'11"; squeak out just above 5'10".  
   
 Q.   If you had a favorite breakout slam, which, in your heart of hearts, would you like to win first?  
MADISON KEYS:   I mean, I wouldn't complain if I win any of them first, but, I mean, I think winning Wimbledon just because it's pretty much "the" Grand Slam or US Open because it's in the U.S.  
   
 Q.   Outside of listening to every country music station that's on the radio, what do you do on your off time when you're not killing yourself on the court?  
MADISON KEYS:   I love baking, which I have to get it out of my house as soon as I bake it or else I'm going to eat it all.   But I like baking.   I have little sisters, so I hang out with them all the time, so...   
I feel like I don't really have off time, though.   When I do have off time I'm usually having to do homework still, so...   
   
 Q.   You're not in high school?   Are you doing...   
MADISON KEYS:   I'm in high school.  
   
 Q.   Are you home‑schooled?  
MADISON KEYS:   Home‑schooled.  
   
 Q.   How close are you to finishing that?  
MADISON KEYS:   I feel like I'm really close; yet it's kind of senioritis is a little bit kicking in right now.   It's like, Eh, I will get to it eventually and it sits there.  
   
 Q.   So you will be a senior?  
MADISON KEYS:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Favorite go‑to dish baking‑wise?   
MADISON KEYS:   Oreo cheesecake cupcakes.   They're so good.  
   
 Q.   Is that the one you put on your Facebook?   
MADISON KEYS:   Those were just cupcakes.   The Oreo cheesecake cupcakes you put an Oreo on the bottom and fill the top with Oreo cheesecake.   They're just in little muffin tins.   They're delicious.   
   
 Q.   So when you break through and win a big, big tournament, will you promise to give us a round of cheesecake?   
MADISON KEYS:   I was actually going to make them in Miami and bring them.   If I see you around, I will give you one.  
   
 Q.   Ever tried Sugarpova before?  
MADISON KEYS:   I have, and it's delicious.   Every time I see Max walking around with a bag of it, I'm like, Is there one for me?   
   
 Q.   Can you imagine getting a little of Maria's candy into your baking?  
MADISON KEYS:   That could be good.   Now I'm going to think about it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT