ROLAND GARROS
June 6, 2019
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. BARTY/M. Keys
6-3, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Could you just talk through the match a little bit?  Where do you think the difference was between the two of you today?
MADISON KEYS: I mean, firstly, I think she played really well.  Her game is obviously very suited for clay.
But I don't think I returned especially well.  So I think in a match like that, I have to be able to put some sort of pressure on her service games, and I felt like I wasn't really doing that.
Her already good serve, she was, you know, feeling very free and able to do whatever she wanted, hitting her spots.  I feel like that was an aspect for today.  And also, obviously in big moments, I don't think my serve held up.
But she's a really great player.  I was going to have to play extremely well, and I feel like I just didn't execute quite as well as I needed to today.
Q. How do you reflect on the experience as a whole this year and how that compares to previous years for you here at Roland Garros?
MADISON KEYS: I mean, it was still a good tournament.  Obviously went a little bit shorter than last year.  But to kind of back up last year and still have a really great tournament and lose to someone who played extremely well today, I fought and I tried to come back in the second set.  I have good feelings about it.
Q. Just today, obviously Ash played incredibly well.  Seemed like you were hitting well off the baseline through the rallies.  The rallies were top notch.  But does it hurt more because of the margins you feel were smaller?  Is it easier?  I don't know.
MADISON KEYS: I feel like -- obviously it's never easy to lose a match, but it's also a little bit easier, as well, when someone is playing really well and you feel like you still put up a fight and you didn't play your best.
So it's kind of, like, Yay, at least I have that (smiling).
Q. On that note, the tour obviously turns to grass now.  So kind of in terms of preparation and getting ready for the grass season, what is your kind of plan for now?  I presume you're going home.  And then just in general, for the grass, what is the most important thing for you in order to be able to have success on that surface and do what you want to do on a surface you like so much?
MADISON KEYS: I think I'm going to go home, have a good little training block, get my legs really ready to stay low, as much as I love that (smiling).
Honestly, I think time on grass is so valuable just because it's such a different surface.  Leading up to every other slam, we have weeks on that surface.  So it's always tough to go from clay and then you're, like, Okay, we're on grass now.  Then there is Wimbledon in two weeks.  Have fun.
So that's always the difficulty of grass, but I always really love it and I feel like it's a game that kind of comes more naturally to me, so I'm really looking forward to it.
Q. If I could just ask your opinion on the performance of Anisimova, knocking out the French Open champion.  Are you surprised by her performance here?  Would that be something that you may have expected, given her ability?
MADISON KEYS: I mean, it's hard to talk about her match today, because I obviously didn't see any of it.
But she's a great player.  She did well in Australia.  I practiced with her earlier this week.  She's a really good tennis player.
It's not surprising.  But as far as today's match specifically, I was losing over there, so I can't tell you what happened.
Q. You're wearing a T-shirt that says "Good Vibes."  Can you tell us about the vibes you get before you play Wimbledon each year?
MADISON KEYS: The vibes?  I'm always excited to go on grass and looking forward to it again.  Wimbledon's always a really special place I think for any tennis fan.  Looking forward to it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT