BNP PARIBAS FED CUP: USA VS SWITZERLAND
April 20, 2019
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
V. GOLUBIC/M. Keys   
6-2, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How much was her variety troubling you?  How much was it just a bad day?  
MADISON KEYS: A little bit of both.  I think she played well.  She took time away.  Obviously she played really well on the big points, when it mattered.   
Overall I think I just had a bad day.   
 Q.  Was there anything particular on the big points she was doing well, working for her?  
MADISON KEYS: She wasn't really making errors and was able to produce some good shots, so...   
I mean, it's tough when you have an opponent who on the big points is playing their best tennis.   
 Q.  Did you go into the match feeling kind of off, or you felt everything was okay when you went on the court?  Did you have a sense at all?  
MADISON KEYS: I mean, I don't think you ever have a sense of when you're going to play badly.  I felt fine.  It was just a tough day.  Obviously never really got any momentum.   
 Q.  Can you give us a little idea of what Kathy was telling you during the match, if anything?  
MADISON KEYS: She just kept saying, Keep fighting, do your best.  I mean, she obviously knew I was trying my best.  She just kept trying to give me a couple of things here and there to focus on.  Yeah, that was it.   
 Q.  How was the crowd out there supporting you?  
MADISON KEYS: They're always great.  It's always fun to play at home.  It's always really disappointing when you lose in front of a home crowd.  It kind of makes your own disappointment a little bit worse, so...   
That part kind of sucks, but it's also nice to have such awesome support, no matter what.   
 Q.  How do you put this behind you?  You have another chance to do this tomorrow.  What can you learn from this?  How do you move forward from here?  
MADISON KEYS: I mean, honestly, right now I'm just focused on going out and cheering Sloane on.  I'll worry about my match after.  I'll talk to Kathy and Lisa, figure out what I need to do better tomorrow.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT