HENGQIN LIFE WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
October 31, 2018
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. KEYS/D. Kasatkina   
6-2, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How do you feel you played today?  What do you think you executed well on?  
MADISON KEYS: I think I had a really good start today and that definitely helped me.  Even a pretty good start in the second set.  I think I served well.  I think there was a little bit of a lull in the second set, but overall I was happy with that.   
I think I returned really well, which is something I've been focusing on.  So overall I think I played really solid and went out and did what I needed to do.   
 Q.  How did you feel this court plays with your game?  
MADISON KEYS: I think it's nice for my game.  It's pretty fast and it bounces, so it sits up a little bit more.  So I actually really like playing on this court.   
 Q.  Fed Cup teams were announced today.  You're not playing.  I don't think Sloane's playing either. So can you talk through that decision, because I think people are reacting funny to it.  
MADISON KEYS: Yeah, I told Kathy that I wasn't sure how my knee was going to hold up after this week.  I didn't want to be a liability and have her put me on the team and then me show up and not be able to hit for three days.   
I talked to her about it and I was super honest.  I was, like, I don't want to be the person that's, like, I'm here, but I can't play.  Sorry.   
So we had a discussion and, you know, hopefully I'll still get through and I can play on the next tie.   
 Q.  You mentioned your injury, but you didn't seem to be suffering from it today.  Are you still concerned about it going on in the tournament or are you happy?  
MADISON KEYS: I'm just trying to manage it.  It's something that obviously is still bugging me.  Today I was able to get through.  It wasn't really hindering my movement or play.   
 Q.  I would like to first ask about the composition of your coaching team.  Also we know you used to work together with Davenport.  Is it possible that you will bring to her China in the future for your competition?  
MADISON KEYS: Right now I have my fitness trainer and that's it.  I'm still on my own currently, looking for someone to be full time next year.   
Lindsay is someone that will kind of always be a part of my life and tennis life.  She has four kids, so I don't think she's going to be traveling full-time anytime soon.  But, I mean, she's someone who I will text almost everyday.  When I need advice, she's someone who is always there for me.   
 Q.  I have no idea if you were paying any attention to it, but what are your thoughts on how Singapore played out?  
MADISON KEYS: I didn't physically get to watch it just because it was on at weird times for me back in the states.  I'm kind of surprised at some results.  It's always interesting to see whose game comes through.   
And, you know, obviously I was rooting for Sloane, but I think Elina has had a really kind of a tough couple of months, so it was nice to see her have such a nice end to her season.   
 Q.  You play Qiang Wang next.  Can you talk about what you expect from that match?  
MADISON KEYS: I've actually played her twice already this year, but I expect the match to be completely different this time around.  She's had an incredible, what, like, six weeks, seven weeks.  I think she's probably really high in confidence and feeling her game.   
I'm probably not even going to watch the matches that I played her and more focus on the last couple of weeks for her and see what she's doing well and hopefully play well enough to get through.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT