U.S. OPEN
August 28, 2018
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. KEYS/P. Parmentier
6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How did it feel physically out there?
MADISON KEYS: It was hot.  Yeah, even second night match, it was hot.  It was really humid.
But, I mean, obviously I was lucky enough to not have the sun aspect on top of it.  I would imagine that a lot of people really struggled today just because even right now it's still pretty brutal outside.
Q. Were you outside a lot today?
MADISON KEYS: No, I was not outside a lot today.  I went to breakfast at like 9 a.m., went back to my room, stayed there till warmup, went back into air-conditioning.  But, I mean, it was one of those days where I didn't have to deal with that big aspect.  At that point I always try to stay in the AC as much as possible, save any energy that you can.
Q. Did you warm up in the sun?
MADISON KEYS: I warmed up in the sun.  I warmed up at, like, 5.  It wasn't as bad.  It was when that random breeze came through, so that helped a little bit, the one breeze (smiling).
Q. Are you relieved to get it done in two, pretty early, long last game, six match points?
MADISON KEYS: That many?  They all blur together.
No, I don't feel like I know what an early finish feels like any more.  I feel like I'm used to it.  I'm really lucky to be able to have so many great night matches on Ashe.
Q. Were you starting to hope again you would play at night?
MADISON KEYS: I was kind of just waiting to see where I was going to fall.  I'm always really happy to get a night match on Ashe.  It's truly one of the best moments to walk out to a home crowd late at night, prime time, all of that.  To have so many of those experiences has been really great and special for me.
Q. Tactically what were you pleased with?
MADISON KEYS: I think I did a good job today.  After having kind of a too amped-up start, being able to dial it down and work the points.  I was most happy with how I stayed in rallies and was waiting for the right ball, not pulling the trigger too soon.
Q. What's different about a US Open night crowd compared to the day?
MADISON KEYS: There's just a buzz at night.  Might have something to do with the people who are enjoying refreshments in the suites.  There's just an energy.  Especially when you're one of the late matches, it empties out but almost feels louder because the people who have stayed are 100% committed to staying, like you guys (smiling).
Everyone is so excited.  Everyone comes down and fills up the lower section.  There's really no words to describe the energy.
Q. Your thoughts on your next opponent, Bernard Pera?
MADISON KEYS: I think she's a great player, had some really good results this year.  We had a tough match in Charleston.  I mean, I'm definitely going to have to play some really good tennis to beat her.  I'm looking forward to having another all-American matchup at the US Open.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT