THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 6, 2018
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. RODINA/M. Keys   
7-5, 5-7, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  That match was quite a roller coaster.  When you were on that ride, did you understand why everything was shifting so back and forth, or was it just...  
MADISON KEYS: I mean, honestly I think today was a massive mishandle of nerves.  I felt good, was up 5-2, and then I feel like I kind of felt my mind go away, and played a couple of sloppy games.  All of a sudden it's 5-All, and that's when nerves hit me.  Then it was just kind of dealing with that.   
And then, I mean, when you're down a set and 4-0, it's a lot easier to be, like, oh, I probably should play better now and do that.  And then in the third set I think I, you know, when I was down I would bring my level up and then go up to serve and would get nervous and, you know, just didn't play well enough when it mattered.   
 Q.  You have played a lot of Grand Slams now.  Why were the nerves particularly bad today?  
MADISON KEYS: Honestly, I think for the first time in a long time it was -- you know, like, I had no idea what my draw was and all of a sudden I came in here the other day, it was like, So if you win, then you play this person.  And I think that kept being in the back of my mind.   
I think that's something that with experience I have to be able to completely push aside and not think about.  But I don't think I did a great job of that today.   
 Q.  Can I ask to clarify, do you mean you were thinking ahead to possibly playing Serena?  
MADISON KEYS: Yes.  Yes.   
 Q.  Just so I don't misunderstand.  Thank you.  
MADISON KEYS: Yes.   
 Q.  Why was that so preoccupying?  You have played Serena at slams before, too.  
MADISON KEYS: No, I know.  I mean, it's another match.  But at the same time it's -- I've gotten so good at playing the one match in front of me, and when you're up 5-2 and you're doing well, I felt my mind go, you know, and move on.  I don't think I did a good job of keeping in the moment and playing, you know, the person who was in front of me.   
 Q.  Do you think having that awareness that your mind wandered and that's not the right thing for you that makes it easier going forward...  
MADISON KEYS: Next time it will be so much better.  Yeah, right now sucks.  But I think the awareness is there, where maybe before it wasn't, which is good.  But, I mean, it still happens, so it still sucks.   
 Q.  Obviously you're still very young.  But in the years that you have played, have you ever experienced anything like this?  What were the circumstances?  
MADISON KEYS: I mean, I think I have done this a couple of times before.  It happens.  I don't think it really matters how old you are, how many times you have played.  It happens.   
It's probably going to happen again.  I mean, it's just being aware of the situation and next time having a better plan for if I feel my mind wandering, how to get it back.   
 Q.  How do you think that affected point to point the different strokes on different points?  Were you just so distracted at times?  
MADISON KEYS: I think that I was distracted for a game or two, and then I became more nervous because I felt like I let a lead slip.  And then I think for me I have to stay low and commit to my shots and go for them.  I think I started playing passive.  I kind of started playing not to lose, which doesn't usually work out well for me.   
Then it kind of quickly spiraled into being down 4-0 in the second set.   
 Q.  I was really impressed with you being down 4-0 in the second and coming back and winning that set.  
MADISON KEYS: Thank you (smiling).   
 Q.  How did you feel after that?  Did you start to get more nervous again, or...  
MADISON KEYS: I mean, like I said, it's a lot easier when you're down, it just becomes, I have to get back.  You know, so you have that in your mind.  And then you get back to even and it's, okay, I could win again.   
So I think I was just constantly playing back and forth between playing too passive and then getting my mind back right and playing better.  But it was just -- I mean, it's tough to go back and forth like that, because even if you start playing well and you have two misses by this much (showing inch) it can change a set.   
 Q.  You are by no means the first seeded player in the female draw to be out.  What's going on?  Why do you think this is?  
MADISON KEYS: I mean, honestly, I can only tell you why I lost today.  I don't know why other people are losing.  Can't really answer your question.   
 Q.  Were you surprised by the fact that Muguruza, Kvitova and others are out?  
MADISON KEYS: I think a lot of those matches were actually really tough matchups.  I think especially some of the early rounds.  I don't necessarily think that was an easy match or an upset, really.  I think there is lots of really good players right now, and, I mean, one player has a slightly bad day.  The other player has a really on day.  It can go either way.   
 Q.  Going back to the nerves that you were talking about before and trying to keep the momentum.  You kept gaining momentum and then losing it.  Was there something you were saying to yourself when you were coming back?  Why couldn't you sort of keep that mentality, if that makes sense?  
MADISON KEYS: I mean, I think if I knew the answer to that we'd be having a different conversation right now.   
 Q.  Thank you for being so candid about your feelings.  I'm sure that's not easy.  But I'm wondering, as you acknowledge you might have been thinking ahead to the next match, on any level, do you think you were aware that so many seeds have fallen that this is, wow, kind of a wide-open situation here potentially for anyone still in the women's draw?  
MADISON KEYS: I don't think I got that far.  I think I was much more focused on the next round.  Yeah, I mean, I don't think that second part of it really ever entered my mind.   
 Q.  You weren't taking in the whole?  
MADISON KEYS: No.   
 Q.  What was your biggest thought ahead to playing Serena besides just the fact that it would be Serena?  Anything in particular about playing her in this stage of each of your careers that was particularly enticing, or what was it about this matchup?  
MADISON KEYS: I don't even think it's because it's Serena or anything like that.  I think it really could have been anyone.  But it just -- I wasn't thinking about my match right now in that moment.  I think, you know, I literally could have played anyone the next round, but the fact that I felt my mind go there and then, I mean, it's really hard to be playing really well, being super focused and then having to kind of reset everything and, you know, find your timing and all of that in the middle of a match.   
 Q.  Are you somebody who goes on social media blackout and is good at not looking at any draws anywhere where you could usually stumble across them?  
MADISON KEYS: Yeah, I'm usually good.  I mean, if I see it, I don't even really absorb it or take it in and definitely never go looking for it.   
I have gotten really good on Twitter going to the top of my notifications.  But, yeah, I mean, sometimes it's gonna happen, so I have to be better at that and have a plan for next time it happens.   
 Q.  At this stage of your career, which do you consider a bigger obstacle:  The mental side of tennis or the physical side of tennis?  
MADISON KEYS: Defs gonna say the mental side.   
 Q.  Can you elaborate?  
MADISON KEYS: I mean, at this point I think everyone knows how to play tennis and play tennis well.  You watch everyone in practice and everyone is really good.  And it's how you handle your emotions and letting yourself be able to play at a high level when you need to.  I mean, I think it's kind of tennis in a whole.   
 Q.  When you have these moments of nerves and everything and then people playing their best against you and things like that, do you ever think of Serena and how she's had people play their best...  
MADISON KEYS: It must suck every match.   
 Q.  Every match people feel like they have nothing to lose, swing freely, but she has been able to get through Grand Slams 23 times and possibly counting.  
MADISON KEYS: I mean, it just gives even more props to her, honestly.  It's definitely been a challenge that I have had to deal with where all of a sudden I'm the one that's supposed to win and people are playing with nothing to lose and playing their best tennis.   
A lot of times you just have to weather the storm and play better on those big points, and, I mean, the fact she's basically done that her whole career is really impressive.   
 Q.  What are you going to now do to take it to the next level so mentally you're prepared going into your next tournaments and going forward in Grand Slams in the future?  What changes mentally are you going to be able to make?  
MADISON KEYS: I think the biggest thing is having a plan for when you feel it happening and catching it quicker.  It's a lot easier to catch it if it's two points and not two games.   
So I think the biggest thing is talking to my team and just being really open and honest, and I think together we can come up with a plan that if I feel myself going that way, then it's just something that I immediately do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT