U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2017
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. KEYS/E. Vesnina
2-6, 6-4, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You've played really late here at night before.  Has the crowd ever been this energetic for you this late at night?
MADISON KEYS: Yeah, they were amazing.  I mean, for the most part when I'm out there, I have the crowd on my side.  But they really helped me tonight.
Yeah, honestly I'm just really thankful that they were there because they were a huge part of it.
Q. Having the late finish last year, did that help you as the clock starting ticking?
MADISON KEYS: Once we got out there, the time didn't really matter any more.  It wasn't really in my mind.  Now it is (smiling).  Now I just want to go get in bed.
Q. How do you think you were able to turn that around?  What was kind of the reason, if there was one, for a bit of a slow start?
MADISON KEYS: Honestly, I think I was nervous and over-amped, just thinking about a lot of things.  As we all know, that combination for me is really terrible.
Yeah, so I just kept fighting.  Even in the first set not playing well, I was trying to figure out what was going on, calm down.  Once I did, I feel like I just took a big step back and honestly just started saying, Just make the ball up the middle of the court and work from there.
Luckily things worked out tonight.
Q. You played against someone who is pretty solid from the baseline.  Next up you have Svitolina who has had a good year, gets a lot of balls back in.  How much of a challenge is it going to be for you to make that one extra ball?
MADISON KEYS: It's going to be really difficult.  She's obviously had a phenomenal year.  She's doing really well.  But, you know, I get to be the underdog, which is fun.  I'm looking forward to it.
I think tonight I proved to myself that kind of any situation I can fight back and figure things out.  So hopefully I'll take what I did tonight and take it into the next round.
Q. You're one of five American women through in the last 16 here.  When people say, Oh, Serena is not there, it's the Williams sisters and no one else, what is your reaction to that?  Is it motivating?  Does it even register at all?
MADISON KEYS: It doesn't really register, to be honest.  Venus and Serena are Venus and Serena.  They're two of the greatest tennis players ever.  They always will be.  So I think trying to measure up to them is basically impossible.
I feel like in recent years I've just stopped trying.  I'm just going to worry about myself, and other people can worry about all of the other business.
Q. Do you get tired of getting asked about you and Coco and Sloane and the other girls who are advancing all together?
MADISON KEYS: No, it's awesome.  If I'm getting asked about it, it means we're all doing really well.  Having so many American women in the final 16 is really amazing.  I would consider all of them friends of mine.  I'm really happy for all of us.
Q. What does it mean for you to get back into the round of 16?
MADISON KEYS: It means a lot.  It has not been an easy year for me.  Getting to a second week of a slam means the world.  Doing it in dramatic fashion is just something that I would have to do (smiling).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT