ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2017
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. MARTIC/M. Keys   
3-6, 6-3, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Tell us how your wrist is feeling.  
MADISON KEYS: Not great.  Yeah, which is, obviously, really disappointing.  Yeah, so I am going to have the doctors look at it tomorrow, and hopefully they can tell me what's going on.   
 Q.  Did it feel like this in the last match or did you feel it during this match?  
MADISON KEYS: No.  I hit, like, one or two balls kind of late and off.  And kind of from that point at the end of the first set, it kind of just got worse and worse.  And then I was hoping I could, obviously, get through it in the second set, but then by the third set it was just really painful.   
 Q.  When you feel something not right in your wrist, how do you judge or know how concerned to be or how bad it is and if you should stop?  If you should think it's okay and not freak out about it?  Because there's not an MRI result right there for you instantly when you feel something in the middle of a set.  
MADISON KEYS: Right.  I mean, I definitely feel like I myself start getting a little panicky.  And that's obviously not what you want to feel in the middle of a match.  So that's not the easiest thing to deal with.   
But after, you know, kind of the last year, I'm able to kind of judge how far I can go.  And, I mean, to be totally honest, had I had to keep playing, probably would have pulled the plug.   
But everyone just keeps telling me it's structurally fine.  It's just getting it back to 100% and being able to handle weird bounces or, you know, hitting something late and all that.  So everyone just keeps telling me it's going to take some time.   
 Q.  Do you believe them?  
MADISON KEYS: I believe them for sure.  It's just really frustrating feeling good all except for just one part of your body.  And, yeah, that's just really, really frustrating.   
 Q.  I apologize if you addressed this earlier, but in terms of if it's structurally sound and everything, has the doctor told you how much longer it would take before you have quote-unquote full strength?  Like, that everything is kind of -- the ligaments and the tendons and muscles and everything are all the way they were from before?  
MADISON KEYS: There's nothing structurally wrong with it anymore.  It's the scar tissue and it's the little things.  And it's all of that that just, if I hit something weird, it kind of locks up a bit on me.  And then from there it just gets more painful.  The good news is that if I don't hit the ball wrong, it's fine.  It's tough on clay to have those.   
And, I mean, she also hits a really heavy ball and it also gets up really high.  So it was just constantly in a bad position.   
 Q.  Did it seem like she was picking on your backhand, especially when she maybe sort of noticed that?  
MADISON KEYS: Did you notice that a little bit?   
 Q.  A little bit.  
MADISON KEYS: Yeah.  Which is why I tried to avoid calling a medical time-out until it was pretty much the last option.   
 Q.  Going forward from here, do you get an MRI tomorrow or something like that and does this cast any doubt on your grass plans?  
MADISON KEYS: Probably not.  There's not really any doubt in my mind.  Let's see, you know, what the doctors say.  And I'm going to have them look at it tomorrow and tell me what exactly is going wrong and, you know, what I can do to try to, you know, minimize this happening in the future.   
Unfortunately, everyone keeps telling me it's just going to take time.  So that's kind of what is repeated to me all the time.   
 Q.  I guess when you get emotional in the match just when you're getting the medical time-out, is it more frustration or is it pain, or is it all of it together?  It's happening at a the Slam?  
MADISON KEYS: Frustration mostly.  Played the last year in pain, and I can deal with that.  It's just the frustration of getting it fixed and, you know, just feeling like you're almost there.  And then especially happening at a slam, it's just tough.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT