INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 16, 2017
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. GAVRILOVA/M. Keys   
2-6, 7-5, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Tough first opponent.  Thoughts on your match?  
MADISON KEYS: Yeah, I mean, obviously there is a lot of moments where I could have played better.  I don't think I served very well today.  She's a tough opponent.  So, you know, she was getting that extra ball back and doing something really well with it.   
It was a tough match.  I fought as hard as I could.  Kind of left it all out there.  You know, just wasn't my day.   
 Q.  Coming back here, having all that success here last year, what were your expectations coming back here?  I think you surprised yourself by doing well here last year.  I don't know if you had lower expectations than your average returning final or whatever?  
MADISON KEYS: Yeah, I feel like I've had a bit of a rough patch, and I'm definitely going through that right now.   
Truly, I walked on the court, and my only thing was I just -- I want to leave it all out there.  I want to, you know, push her and do my absolute best.   
While I didn't play well today, I definitely think I did that.  I kind of took care of my part of the deal, and I did the absolute best that I could.  Obviously really disappointed and it's not how I wanted to finish this tournament.  But, you know, I just didn't quite get over the finish line today.   
 Q.  Is this rough patch still some residual rust, do you think?  You came back at Indian Wells just a couple months ago.  Still working your way back or...  
MADISON KEYS: Yeah, for sure.  I think it's also getting the confidence back and all of that, and I think that's, you know, not the easiest at times.  If things were easy, I think a lot of people would have a lot more success immediately right after coming back, for whatever reason.  That's not usually the case.   
So I'm just trying to get back out there.   
 Q.  How patient do you let yourself be with that?  Obviously you're hungry to win, but at the same time, you understand what you have been through, still working your way back?  How do you balance patience versus impatience?  
MADISON KEYS: I'm not always the best at the patience part.  You know, I'm extremely disappointed with how today ended.  There's that, but I do actually feel pretty proud of myself for how I, you know, fought and did my absolute best.   
And that in that way I guess today was a little bit easier to swallow, but...   
 Q.  Does defending points creep into your head at all?  
MADISON KEYS: A little bit.   
 Q.  Some of the biggest you have ever defended, probably?  
MADISON KEYS: Yeah, and it's definitely tough defending points while still not feeling super match-ready or kind of fully back in the swing of things.   
So it was kind of a tough mental balance to have the pressure of defending champion but also played a handful of matches this year.   
 Q.  On to Paris now, I guess?  
MADISON KEYS: Probably.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts or expectations for that place on and off court?  Expecting to eat crepes?  I guess that's also an answer.  
MADISON KEYS: Yeah, I think the first couple of days I'm there I will probably eat lots of French fries and crepes and all that, enjoy that part of Paris.  I'm really looking forward to just having, like, a solid week, ten days of practice and feeling, you know, more confident on the court.  I think that's a big thing that I'm missing right now, so that's definitely something I'm going to go and work on.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT