CHINA OPEN
October 7, 2016
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. KEYS/P. Kvitova
6-3, 6-7, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. This is the third time you and Petra have met this year, the most recent time being in Rio.  That match also went to three sets.  How was today's match different?
MADISON KEYS: I think I played a pretty solid first set today, then she raised her level.  I just think at the end it became a couple of points here or there.  I think I got my serve back on track a little bit.
I mean, really, it could have gone either way.  It was really close.
Q. The match seemed exhausting.  Were you exhausted by the end?
MADISON KEYS: I actually feel pretty good.  You know, there were not very many long points.  But, yeah, I think it was a really tough match.  Going to go and do whatever I can to feel good tomorrow.
Q. Mentally how did you stay tough into this match?  How did you not get so frustrated?
MADISON KEYS: I definitely think I got frustrated (smiling).  You know, it's always tough when you're serving for a set and you have a bad game.  Doing that a couple of times in a match is frustrating.
But, you know, I think I did a really good job at staying focused and just trying to regroup and worry about the next point.
You know, she made it really tough today.  I'm just really happy that at the end I was able to get my serve back on track and get myself ahead in the tiebreaker.
Q. In that final set, after the 3-Love lead, your serve was under attack quite a bit.  Was that because your percentages were going down?  Did she elevate her game?
MADISON KEYS: I think she does a really good job of making you feel pressure on your serve, so you start going for more on your first serve.  Then also she's kind of all over your second serve.  I think that was definitely happening.
I think I would get down, and then I would kind of take a second and start making some more first serves and getting myself into some points.  I think that helped.
Q. In the tiebreaker at 5-All, the backhand winner.  She was doing a good job of keeping the ball on the backhand side.
MADISON KEYS: That was just like, We're going to go for it and see what happens.  Hope for the best (smiling).
Q. Is this the kind of match that shows how much you've improved the past 12 months?  Do you think you would have won that a year ago or two years ago?
MADISON KEYS: Probably not.  I think, you know, after losing the second set, having chances to serve it out, I probably could have easily gone away.  Even being up 3-0 in the third set, it getting close again, I definitely think I could have gone away.
I'm really proud that a lot of the hard work that I've done on that part of my game is helping me out now.
Q. You played with power players like Kuznetsova and Kvitova.  How do you feel about that?
MADISON KEYS: I think they're a little bit different.  Sveta plays with a little bit more spin, kind of likes to work the ball.  Petra does a good job of keeping you deep behind the baseline and going for her shots.
They're both challenging in different ways.
Q. Does getting that win at all kind of take a bit of the salt or sting away from what happened over the summer?
MADISON KEYS: No.  Don't even ask the question (laughter).
Q. Looking ahead, you're pretty close to sealing things up for Singapore, competing in your first mandatory semi.  Don't know who you're playing yet, but talk about Zhang Shuai or Konta.
MADISON KEYS: They've both had really good years.  Zhang Shuai, played her at the beginning of the year.  I don't remember a ton from that match.  But she's obviously playing well.  Playing in front of your home crowd is always a good feeling.  If she wins that, that's going to be tough.
Jo is playing really well.  I mean, at this point everyone's trying to qualify, everyone's trying to play their good tennis at the end of the year.  Pretty much whoever you play is going to be a tough match.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT