U.S. OPEN
August 31, 2016
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. KEYS/K. Day   
6-1, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Was it kind of a surreal moment to be playing Kayla at a Grand Slam?  
MADISON KEYS: It was funny because everyone kept saying I was the veteran on court.  I really didn't like that title.   
But, no, she was a sweetheart.  She obviously worked really hard to get the wild card and she beat Madison in the first round.  I definitely think we'll see a lot of Kayla.   
 Q.  After the late finish the other morning, relieved to get this businesslike performance in and out and prepare for the third round?  
MADISON KEYS: Yeah, for sure.  It's funny because this is still technically a late finish, but I'll take this one over the 2:00 a.m. any day.  I was really happy that I got on the court, kind of went out there and did what I wanted to do from the start, and was able to get off the court as a semi-decent hour.   
 Q.  What was your recovery like after that late match?  What time did you get to bed?  What was the day afterwards like?  
MADISON KEYS: When I got home I had a little bit of treatment done and all that.  By the time I was getting in bed it was almost 4:00.  Then I came out and I practiced at like 2:30 the next day maybe, so didn't get a ton of sleep.   
But then went back that afternoon, got some more treatment, and napped.  Then I slept for like 10 and a half hours last night.  So felt a little bit better this morning.   
 Q.  Kayla said you and she have known each other for a few years now.  What kind of relationship do you have and what do you think of her game?  
MADISON KEYS: Yeah, I've known her for a couple of years.  She was kind of always the younger group when I was in the older group, I guess.  It's funny.  She used to make fun of my music.  She's like, It's so old.   
It's not, though.  You're just a baby.   
 Q.  Anything specific she made fun of?  
MADISON KEYS: '90s music, early 2000 music.  She's like, I never heard of this band.   
Oh, my God, you're so young.   
No, but she's a total sweetheart.  She's always been really nice.  It was great to see that she won the wild card tournament.   
Yeah, I definitely think we'll see her around.  I think she has a great serve and a really solid forehand.  No doubt that she'll be around.   
 Q.  Your next opponent is Naomi Osaka.  How much do you know about her?  
MADISON KEYS: I know her a little bit.  I've practiced with her in Boca a couple of times.  She's an aggressive player.  She's been playing well.  She's steadily been moving up the rankings.  She's going to be a tough opponent.   
I don't know a ton about her game.  I'm definitely expecting a tough match.   
 Q.  You are usually the younger player on court.  When you play against a player younger than you, do you feel some pressure or...  
MADISON KEYS: No.  I think it's eventually kind of how it goes.  Yeah, she's definitely going to be playing with no pressure and going to be going for her shots a lot more.  That's expected.   
But I think I can kind of draw more on my experience and I guess be the veteran on the court again.   
 Q.  When you practiced with Naomi in Boca, how does that come about?  Who sets it up?  Do you interact at all, or is it businesslike:  we hit on court, sit and drink water, hit again, call it a day?  
MADISON KEYS: No.  I actually worked with her fitness trainer, Mark Wellington.  I don't know if she's still working with her.  He asked.  I was in Boca.  I love hitting against other girls sometimes and mixing it up.   
I mean, we definitely talked.  We didn't sit down and like braid each other's hair or anything, but there was definitely some conversation.   
 Q.  Happy medium between those two?  
MADISON KEYS: Yeah, a happy medium between BFFs and not speaking.   
She always seemed nice enough, always friendly, but I don't know her super well.   
 Q.  Does it get easier for you now that the tournament progresses?  You look so fresh.  It's different than last week, because I think there were some tough days in the heat.  
MADISON KEYS: Yeah, my fitness especially is usually tough the first couple of days the week before a slam, and then it tapers off.  Thursday, Friday there's definitely some heavy legs, not moving great, but it's just so that I peak at the right moment and feel really good once the tournament starts.   
 Q.  How different do you feel coming into the US Open this year compared to last year?  
MADISON KEYS: I feel pretty good.  Last year I felt like I was a little bit rushed getting into the tournament, practicing, all that.  This year I feel I've done everything I can.  I feel really fit right now.  So I feel pretty good.   
 Q.  Kayla said she was pretty thrilled by the court change.  It was floated like an idea to her, and all of a sudden she was going.  How did they notify you?  How much time did you have?  
MADISON KEYS: I had a feeling it might have happened just because that court was going long.  But I guess maybe an hour and a half before we saw that it was a potential court change.  Then the WTA came to me and said, If they split sets, you'll probably be moved to Armstrong.   
So, I mean, it was pretty normal.   
 Q.  Is it more fun chasing than being chased?  You're in the top 10 now, kind of a veteran.  Maybe people feel a little bit less pressure when they play you.  
MADISON KEYS: I think so.  I think getting to this point is always really fun.  There's a lot less pressure, but obviously you want to be here.   
So I think I look at it as a positive and think of all the hard work I did to get here, and then just think now it's a different aspect of it.  I think that's just as much fun.  That's part of the game.  That's kind of the next step.   
 Q.  You talked about the happy medium before.  You wouldn't consider yourself a veteran, but you're not one of the new kids on the block.  How important is that in your weekly routine to have that experience under your belt?  
MADISON KEYS: I definitely think it helps a lot.  It's something that -- after tough losses everyone was like, Don't worry.  This will help you with the experience.  All that.  I thought they were crazy.  It would have been so much better to win.   
No, it definitely has helped.  Having lots of I guess you could say Grand Slam matches now has been really beneficial.  I'm more comfortable playing every week, being in these same tournaments, and just kind of knowing what to expect a little bit more.   
 Q.  Was there a specific moment where you felt like you belonged?  
MADISON KEYS: I think it's baby steps in a way.  Like when I broke into the top 50, it was, Okay, now I feel like I belong in the top 50.   
Then top 20, it took a little bit of time to feel like I really belonged in the top 20.   
You know, I think it's a learning process.  Knowing that you belong there is something that you go out and you work for every day.  I think for me it's just feeling really confident in my fitness and all the preparation off of the court and on the practice court that helps me feel like I do belong once I'm in the match setting.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT