ROGERS CUP
July 27, 2016
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. KEYS/M. Brengle
6-4, 6-3
An interview with:
MADISON KEYS
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What are your thoughts on having to play Venus in the next round?
MADISON KEYS: I'm excited.  I played her a couple of times last year.  I think I won one, lost one.  It's always tough playing her.  She's obviously a great player.  She did well last week, so it's going to be a tough match.  But I'm looking forward to it.
Q. Now with two wins through here this week, is it relieving a little bit to step back on the court and get the results like you were getting them in the grass season and clay season?
MADISON KEYS: It's funny, it's seems like there's been such a long break from Wimbledon to now.  Before it was like a week and then we were back onto court and everything.
Obviously it's always tough getting back into a tournament.  So really happy with how I've started, happy that I was able to kind of keep the results coming and playing well.
Q. Can we have your thoughts on your match today.
MADISON KEYS: I think I played okay.  I think I could have done a couple of things better at certain times.  It's always tough playing Maddie.  I think she played pretty well.  But overall happy with how it went.
Q. Did you watch Venus' match today?
MADISON KEYS: I saw a little bit of it, but I was waiting to go on for my match so I was not watching much of it.
Q. Did you notice her serve, her problems with her serve today?
MADISON KEYS: No.  You're the first person to tell me about it.
Q. How much of Venus Williams' game and her style of play do you see in your style of play?
MADISON KEYS: A little bit, I guess.  I think the power, obviously.  I think the aggressive mindset.  But as far as everything else, I'm not 100% sure.
We both obviously rely on our serves a lot.  But I think there's definitely some big differences between the two of us, as well.
Q. Like?
MADISON KEYS: Like I think she moves forward really, really well.  That's something that I'm working on more in my game.  But also I think her backhand is more of her solid shot, whereas I think mine is my forehand.
Q. What is going to be the key tomorrow to beat Venus?
MADISON KEYS: I think a big thing is knowing when to be aggressive and when to back off.  She's obviously going to hit a lot of winners and a lot of good shots.  I think kind of taking my chances when I have them, but not being over-eager about it is going to be a huge factor.
Q. Speaking of moving forward, I think last year you kind of would roll your eyes at the idea of having to come into the net too much.  As you're working on it more, what is the biggest challenge for you with respect to the forward game?  Is it the decision making of when to come in?  Is it the actual volley?  Is it the transition?  What's the toughest thing for you?
MADISON KEYS: I think the biggest thing is just doing it.  Like, I'll see the ball, and a lot of times if I don't come in, later I'm thinking, That's the ball to come in on.
Once I get to net, I'm actually pretty comfortable.  It's just that knowing when to go for it.  I mean, sometimes you're going to make the mistake and come in on the wrong ball.
But I think the more that I get used to doing it, the more comfortable I'll be and the more I'll know when to kind of look for it and when to kind of maybe wait for another ball.
Q. Is that something that you and Thomas are working on specifically or something that is generally evolving in your game?  How much of a target is it?
MADISON KEYS: Definitely working on it.  But he always says, When you feel like you should come forward, go ahead.
It was funny because I was at IMG in Bradenton.  Nick Bollettieri was there.  He was like, I don't even care, just hit one ball and run to the net.  He was like, You got to work on it.  Just hit and run.  You'll figure out how to do it.
Q. Surely you have a better Bollettieri impression than that?
MADISON KEYS: No, I don't.  He's one of a kind, so I'm not even going to attempt to do it.
Q. Are you planning to play in Cincinnati and New Haven after Rio?
MADISON KEYS: I'll have to see how Rio goes.  I'm committed for New Haven.  Cincinnati is a maybe.  We'll see how things go.  It's obviously difficult to fly to South America and get back for the next week.  We'll just have to see how everything plays out.
Q. Do you know who you're rooming with yet in Rio?
MADISON KEYS: I don't know the whole situation, to be honest.  I know we have hotel rooms, so we have the option to stay in the hotel or in the village.  If we stay in the village, I think we have to room.  Only athletes can stay there.  Bethanie is not super keen on staying there since Justin can't.  Coco really wants to.  We'll see when we get there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT