AEGON CLASSIC
June 19, 2016
Madison Keys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. KEYS/B. Strycova   
6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Madison Keys, please.   
 Q.  How do you feel about that win?  Just talk us through how you felt it went, especially when Barbara tried to come back in the second set.  
MADISON KEYS: I think I got off to a good start in the first set breaking early.  I think I held onto the that lead pretty well.  Then in the second set, she definitely raised her level.   
There was definitely a couple of games, especially when I was serving, that I really had to dig deep and figure it out.  Luckily I was able to.   
I think she played one not-great game and that's when I was able to break her.   
 Q.  Grass is definitely your thing then?  How comfortable do you feel now looking ahead to Wimbledon?  
MADISON KEYS: I'm feeling pretty good.  I think getting this many matches in a row was a huge opportunity that I think that can definitely help me at Wimbledon.   
I obviously really love the surface, so the more I get to play on it, the happier I am.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you played as well as you could play today?  You kind of seemed totally in control the whole way through.  
MADISON KEYS: I think I played well.  I don't think I played the greatest match ever.  I definitely played really well.  I think I served well, especially when it matter.   
So I'm really happy with my performance.   
 Q.  Are there any things that you are looking to work on in your game before Wimbledon starts?  
MADISON KEYS: Obviously you always want to keep working on your serves and returns since that's such a big thing.  On grass especially.  So definitely keep working on that.  And I also think taking some chances and coming in a little bit more could really help me.   
 Q.  Which tournament do you now prefer, Birmingham or Eastbourne?  
MADISON KEYS: They both have a special place in my heart.   
 Q.  Couple times as well across both sets, we saw you come in and show a lot of good touches at the net.  Is that something you want to use more going into Wimbledon?  We didn't see that earlier in the week.  
MADISON KEYS: I think --   
 Q.  Or was that how Barbora played today?  
MADISON KEYS: I think it's a mixture of both.  I definitely tried to do that more often.  But when you're playing someone like Ostapenko, who hits as hard as she does, it's very hard to come in on that.   
I think Barbora, her game draws you forward a little bit more.   
But it's definitely something I'm working on and trying to put in my game more.   
 Q.  You've joined a long list of big names who've won here and who have also won Wimbledon.  Do you think maybe this lays down a marker that you can win Wimbledon?  
MADISON KEYS: It definitely gives me some confidence and I would love to follow this one up with that.   
But, yeah, no, it definitely feels good knowing that a lot of people who have done well here have done well at Wimbledon.  So it definitely gives me a good feeling.   
 Q.  I noticed you were on your phone texting friends what's happening and things.  What is the reaction back home?  
MADISON KEYS: Pretty good.  One of my sisters texted me and said, Good luck on the rest of the tournament (laughing).   
I'm like, It was the final.   
Oh, did you win?   
Yeah.   
Okay.  Cool.  Thanks.   
But my mom was very happy.  She actually watched.  And lots of friends and family who woke up early to support me, they're all very happy.   
 Q.  The rain has been pretty incessant here this week.  The court looked fabulous.  It was a really true test for you.  Would you like to pay tribute to the groundsmen?  
MADISON KEYS: The groundsmen were amazing this week.  The fact that the court held up as well as it did, considering how much rain we got, just shows how amazing they were and how much hard work they put into this week.   
I felt bad.  They were uncovering and covering every ten minutes it seemed for a while.  So they were a huge part of this week.   
 Q.  Did you make any inroads with that bottle of champagne?  
MADISON KEYS: I haven't opened it yet.  Everyone on my team for a while -- it went missing for a little bit and they're like, Where is it?  Do you know where it is?   
So it's out there sitting on a table.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT