NCAA WOMEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: LOUISVILLE
March 21, 2019
Nia Adams
Nneka Ezeigbo
Nina Augustin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Go ahead and open it up for questions.  Start right back there.   
 Q.  This is for anyone up there.  It's really rare that a 16 seed beats a 1 seed.  What are you guys going to do to try to put Robert Morris on this short list?  
THE MODERATOR: Start here with Nia.   
NIA ADAMS: We prepare.  This is just our next game and that's how we like to see it.  We know it's a big game, but we don't try to put too much emphasis on it.  We just go out there, practice and prepare like we do for the next game.   
THE MODERATOR: Nneka.   
NNEKA EZEIGBO: Like she said, we always focus on our next game.  Basically we focus on our defensive principals.  Defense is a big part of our game, so just keeping a strong focus on what we need to do next and what we need to accomplish on the next possession.   
NINA AUGUSTIN: Yeah, our coaches never put emphasis on if you're the 1st seed or the 16th seed.  We're going to try to play with our strength and take away theirs.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
 Q.  What do you feel like Louisville strengths are?  If you could each answer that question.  
NINA AUGUSTIN: I think we're a pretty fundamental team.  So just like focusing on our defensive principals.  I think that will be our strength in this I game.  Keeping our own pace.   
NNEKA EZEIGBO: On our side I think a big strength is just continuing to attack.  Just continue to read on each possession.  I think post will play a big part of the team, and then also focusing on our guards to be able to lead us with communication and keeping us moving.   
NIA ADAMS: For our strengths, like Nneka said, we have strong attack points.  Like whether it's from our post or the guard.  We have drivers, shooters, and post players that can bang.  Like we know what to do and we just play to our strengths.   
 Q.  Being a young team, do you feel a lot of pressure to be a leader?  
NIA ADAMS: I wouldn't really say it's pressure.  It comes naturally only because of my teammates.  They look for me to do certain things and they also help me.  Like being a leader doesn't always mean just one person.  You don't always have to be a senior to be a leader as well.  I think they help me in those aspects.   
 Q.  For Nia, so this isn't your first go-round.  I think, correct, it's the third?  
NIA ADAMS: Yeah.   
 Q.  So what makes this NCAA appearance different than the other two?  
NIA ADAMS: Good question.  What makes this one different I think is definitely the experience part of it.  First one with UCONN was a lot of jitters.  UCONN is such a -- like just the name just brings you like chills.   
Notre Dame, we built up confidence and wasn't as much nervousness as UCONN game, and I think this game we're ready.  We're prepared.  We're doing all we can to just compete and go out there and just play the game like we know how to.   
 Q.  Just a follow up to that real quick.  For Nneka and Nia, what are you talking to the freshman and sophomores about, underclassmen?  Any words of advice when it comes to a stage like this one?  
NNEKA EZEIGBO: We just try to instill confidence in our freshman.  They're basically not freshman anymore.  They make mistakes, all of us do.  Just being able to move on to the next play and keep playing strong.  Our coach always talks about whether we're here or away, it doesn't matter.  We worry about what's between the lines.  Just worry about the game and being able to play strong for 40 minutes.   
NIA ADAMS: I think Nneka just pretty much just said all.  Just instilling confidence in our underclassmen.  Like she said, our freshman and sophomores play a lot of minutes.  They're not really freshman.  They know that and they know their abilities and what we can do as a team.   
 Q.  Nina, talk about your approach to the NCAA tournament.  Obviously Nneka has experiences, and Nia has her third game now.  This is your first.  
NINA AUGUSTIN: I think it's our strengths kind of, that we have experienced players that have been through this, and then we have the younger players like me that we've never been here.  It's more exciting.   
I think we have a little bit of everything there, so I think that's good.   
 Q.  Nneka, talk specifically about you having to face the forwards from Louisville.  Obviously a tougher test than you've had since nonconference play.  
NNEKA EZEIGBO: Facing Louisville's post is definitely going to be a challenge, but a challenge I'm willing to accept.  Just one step the at a time focusing on what I need to do to help my team.   
It's definitely going to be a fun challenge seeing something different and experiencing a different level of play.   
THE MODERATOR: Anything else for these ladies?  If not, we'll let them go early and get ready for practice.  Ladies, thanks for your time and good luck.   
NINA AUGUSTIN: Thank you.   
NNEKA EZEIGBO: Thank you.   
NIA ADAMS: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT