UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 21, 2009
Blake Gideon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  Q. Is the Gideon family tree expanding?   
 BLAKE GIDEON: I don't know. I guess they've kind of all figured out by now that they're not on the list in the regular season, then they're probably not going to be considered for a big game like this.   
  
  Q. What does it mean to be here?   
 BLAKE GIDEON: Yeah, it's huge. Obviously growing up a Longhorn fan, you know. Going to middle school and high school in this area. And seeing all the people that bleed orange and how important it is to them and how big the Texas family is, I guess, you kind of get an idea of how big this game really is.   
 And it is exciting to realize that we're going to be able to play in it, and we're going to be able to represent all of those people, not just at the University of Texas, but all the fans that Texas has.   
  
  Q. Being in the Fiesta Bowl will it even a little bit calm your nerves?   
 BLAKE GIDEON: Maybe, maybe a little. But this is the National Championship. This is the last two teams standing. And, you know, the two best teams in the country up to this point. So, the Fiesta Bowl was fun. It was a blast. It was an honor to play there. But this is for it all. This is the National Championship.   
  
  Q. Now that you're starting to talk about it, are you realizing it, or does it still seem too far?   
 BLAKE GIDEON: I'll probably realize it when we get to L.A. and we get the welcome and everything, and we start practicing out there. And all the hype really starts to build up for it.   
  
  Q. Talk about bragging rights. Two great defenses, great players, great coaches.   
 BLAKE GIDEON: It's really about getting that ring at the end of the day. I mean, it doesn't matter to me if we win, you know 50-49 or whatever it is, or 10-7. At the end of the day, the team with the most points is going to get a win and get a big, shiny trophy. And that's what we worked for all year round. And that's what we're out there in the heat for every day. So that's all it comes down to.  
  
  Q. 50-49?  
 BLAKE GIDEON: It really doesn't matter to me, obviously, we'd like to go out there and have a good showing at the defense and put up some pressing numbers, something we can be proud of. But as long as we're on top at the end of the day, then it's all good with me.  
  
  Q. Talk about being a local guy with Jones and Mark Ingram, do you embrace that? That you get to knock them around or try to?   
 BLAKE GIDEON: Sure, it's football. That's what it's based around. It's not for the weak or timid. You know, yeah, that's what makes the game fun. That's the first reason that all of these guys play. It's a man's game, you might say. So, yeah, we'll embrace that. And we'll all embrace it together with Alabama.   
  
  Q. Is Ingram the guy that gets better during the course of the game?   
 BLAKE GIDEON: He's a work horse, I think. He always wants the ball in tight situations, and that's the earmark of a great player. And he's obviously proved that with whether it be the numbers he's put down on paper or the trophy he picked up a couple weeks ago. He's proved it. He deserves everything he gets. He works hard. We're looking forward to the challenge of competing with him.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
   
   
   
   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT