UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 5, 2011
Blake Gideon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. How do you prepare for a team like BYU?
 BLAKE GIDEON: You prepare for every team the same amount. You know, if anything, we probably had a chance to prepare for Rice more because they were the first game, and we started digging into their offense a little bit week 2 of camp. You have to give every team the same amount of respect, and they have a lot of great athletes at BYU, so if we don't -- if we're not sound in our technique and our fundamentals then they can exploit us.

 Q. I think of BYU I think of Steve Young, Jim McMahon. Is that what you're facing this week? 
 BLAKE GIDEON: Well, I don't think either of those two guys still play there, but they do have a history of having great offensive teams, putting points on the board in different ways. I think they're great at doing it behind the personnel they have. Obviously they have a monstrous offensive line this year, so you know, whenever you're blessed with that kind of size, then you're going to want to run behind those guys. 
 From what I've seen, they're multiple, they can run the ball from a one-back set, two-back set, and they can also take shots. So we're going to have to be disciplined and sound with our guys on the back end.

 Q. They kind of take veteran to a new level of the setup with the mission trips. That means they have a lot of older players. As a guy that's played, started every football game, do you notice when you're facing veterans that presents a bigger challenge? 
 BLAKE GIDEON: Yeah, I think it becomes more of a chess match whenever it's an older team playing against an older team. You know, there's not so much someone counting on just out-athleting you. It's going to be more of the thinking game, and you know, us kind of playing with the quarterback's eyes in the back end and showing him different looks and trying to get him to check to something and then us checking to a different coverage.
 That's the main thing whenever you're playing against an older team, an older offense, that they're able to make those checks and they're not going to get freaked out by 100,000 fans or whatever movement we're showing. 

 Q. You guys have experience in the secondary. What did you think of your young players?
 BLAKE GIDEON: I think they showed up and they produced. We're going to count on them all season, so that's who we have, and so we told them that they're going to have to grow up fast and I think they're up for the challenge and they're ready. I think they proved that on Saturday night. They're mature beyond their years, and the main thing with them is they're students of the game, all those guys, and they realize the importance of the middle aspect of the game. Whenever you get that down, then you can go play football. So we're excited about where those guys are, and they're helping us. You know, we're excited about it.

 Q. Did it give them a lot more confidence, the way they played?
 BLAKE GIDEON: Yeah, I think you get some games under your belt, it's going to help you. There's only so much that practicing can do for you. You try every day to emulate game speed, but there's only so much you can do. For them to go out there and perform well in a game and see how they do against somebody besides the Texas offense, then that naturally builds confidence.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT