THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 20, 2000
Peter Thomson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Peter, you said you were shocked yesterday at the 0-5. Are you equally surprised now
that your team has rallied? 

PETER THOMSON: I'll give you fancy words to use. I said it was a shocker, shocker meant
a horrible day. I told you about 1996 when more or less the same thing happened, it's
remarkable that the same thing happened again in the second round.

Q. I wonder -- I watched you this morning on television. The question put to you was
what did you say to the guys this morning when they went out and you said, I didn't have
to tell them anything, they knew what they had to do, and I wondered your thoughts there,
sir?

PETER THOMSON: Well, that's the truth. I can't add much to that.

Q. Peter, Steve Elkington's play hasn't been up to his standards in the first two
matches. Is any of that due to the condition of his hip? 

PETER THOMSON: He assures me he's a hundred percent healthy. And he'll get there,
you'll see. By Sunday he'll win a point. 

Q. Carlos Franco had 6 birdies this morning, can you talk about his play in the match?

PETER THOMSON: I'm a great admirer of him. Anyone that swings take long, has that
beautiful long backswing, he's for me. He's a very talented golfer, and he's got a lot of
what we commonly call guts. So I'm glad he's on my team and not the other. 

Q. Apparently Ernie Els gave quite a rousing speech on the bus last night with a beer
in his hands. Can you explain that? 

PETER THOMSON: Well, it was light beer (laughter.) Anyway, we encourage everybody
really to say what they think and feel. And he couldn't hold back. He had to say something
to rally everybody. He wanted to say I don't feel depressed, I don't feel down in the
dumps, I feel we're going to win. And if we all play hard and play with our heart in it,
and everybody gave him a rousing cheer, and we all this had another beer (laughter.)

Q. Peter, could you comment on the roll of the new boys, Campbell and Goosen, leading
off today, and also the role Norman played this morning?

PETER THOMSON: The first is the new boys, as you say, Campbell and Goosen are obviously
pretty talented players. Campbell has been winning quite a bit on the European Tour
lately. Goosen is always there and roundabout. You can see the quality of his game. I
think he's going to win a big one some day soon. So that's a fresh infusion of new players
on our team, which is very healthy for the future. I was thinking last night or the night
before, that by the time this event is played again in two years' time, we'll have a
different looking team. And very likely we may have a Chinese -- a golfer from China, and
we could easily have a golfer from India. So it's beginning to take on a more cosmopolitan
look than it started off with. There may be only one Australian, you never know.

Q. Peter, Vijay looks like he's been struggling for two days. Do you have any thoughts
of sitting him or at least breaking up he and Ernie?

PETER THOMSON: No, none whatever. As it's worked out, those two big guns, as I call
them, they've had the hard matches, although they haven't won the points. It's very
important that they -- they take on the hard games. And that's what they've done. I feel
that they've pulled their weight, and they've done the team a lot of good.

Q. How about your thoughts now, your feelings now that you're 6-4 after the second
round of matches?

PETER THOMSON: My feelings are that there's a long way to go. I'm grateful for that.
This afternoon is a worry. If we get through this foursome stuff with the situation as it
is now I'll be very happy.

Q. Peter, are you at all concerned about the pace of play? It just seems almost glacial
out there, is that a problem?

PETER THOMSON: Well, it doesn't worry me personally, although I was never one to take
the time. I think there's too much conferring that goes on. I don't think all that is
necessary. But I'd like to see it quicker.

Q. Peter, a comment please on the play of Greg Norman today --

PETER THOMSON: I'm sorry, I forgot to answer that. Two questions are too much for me. I
think Greg -- I may have mentioned it yesterday, he needs play. He needs to get back into
play serious tournament golf, which this is. Playing half a game, like a foursome's match
wasn't enough. This morning was pretty important for him to play his own ball and show
everybody that he's as good as he ever was. So that's what he did.

Q. Peter, a lot was made before the matches began about the contentiousness and trying
to avoid all that Ryder Cup stuff. What has your impression been so far after two sessions
of how the crowds are treating your players, both sides?

PETER THOMSON: My impressions are it's been very fair. We discussed this in team and we
expected, of course, that there's a louder clap for a U.S. team good shot than our good
shot, but it's pretty clear that our good shots get applauded as well. So that's how we
want it. We hope it stays that way. And I'm sure it will. It's a good start. We don't want
crowds to really behave themselves, but we want to enjoy it as a golf spectacle, meaning a
good shot coming from where it comes from, should get a bit of a cheer.

Q. Any incidents at all? 

PETER THOMSON: Not that I've heard of, no, no complaints.

Q. Peter, talk about sitting Greg. That decision was made before Greg started playing
well this morning. Did you have any second thoughts of putting him back out there this
afternoon? 

PETER THOMSON: No, we did not. Greg and I and everybody else discussed it last evening
and it was resolved that he would have a rest this afternoon.

Q. Can you talk about Shigeki being 6-0, remaining undefeated?

PETER THOMSON: He's been very lucky, he's had good partners (laughter.)

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT