WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: SEMIS & FINALS
March 18, 2006
In-Sik Kim
Jong-Beom Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
  Q.  This is for Manager Kim.  No defeat is easy to suffer, but your team accomplished quite an impressive record in this tournament.  What do you think now are the qualities of your team that allowed you to achieve this quite remarkable feat?   
 IN SIK KIM:  Through this tournament, our players did an excellent job.  They did a superb job, and as a manager, I am deeply grateful to all my players.  We had seven games, and this is the first defeat that we experienced, and we fought with Team Japan and had games with other teams, but I believe that Team Japan is the most organized, and they are very powerful.   
 Although we won twice over Japan, still, I think that their quality of game and their ability of game is perhaps better than ours.  Again, I believe that our players did a superb job, and I want to thank my players.  That's how we were able to advance this far.   
  Q.  This is both for the manager and Mr. Lee.  What made (Koji) Uehara so impressive in your mind as a pitcher this evening?   
 IN SIK KIM:  Well, Uehara, the starting pitcher, he's an excellent pitcher, and we're very well aware of his pitching ability, and every year he wins more than ten times and he throws fastball and slider.  I mean, those two are excellent especially.  I mean, he throws forkball first and then fastball, and perhaps that's why the batters get confused.  That's why maybe it was very difficult for batters to hit his ball.   
 JONG BEOM LEE:  Well, we knew that Uehara, the pitcher, was the best pitcher that team Japan had, and I think that our team had a little bit of problem with timing, and because we had to face the best pitcher in Japan, so I think that our batting was somewhat lacking.   
 But if we have another opportunity, I think that our players are now more ready than before, so I think it was an excellent opportunity for our batters to play against Uehara as a pitcher, and I think we will have more confidence next time.   
  Q.  I would like to congratulate you on winning as a Korean team in this series.  I would like to ask you a question which is not about the game itself but against the booing against the player Ichiro.  I have a feeling that -- in soccer football we have very strong rivalry, it's a known fact, but in baseball we didn't know there was this strong rivalry going already, and as we pay respect to Korean players and the team, I was expecting the Korean fans to do the same against the Japanese team since we don't know what's going to happen between our two teams' relationship over the y            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT