WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 28, 2005
Nicole Perrot
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thanks for coming in, and a fabulous round 2 under par and what looked like very difficult conditions with the winds and the rain.  Can you talk about the conditions to begin with?
NICOLE PERROT:  When I was starting the morning it was okay, but since we've been playing, like No. 8, 9, it started picking up, the wind and the rain, a lot.  So I think it was really tough to adjust and to get confident playing.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Can you take us over your score card before we go through questions?  You birdied 6; what did you hit in there and how far was the putt?
NICOLE PERROT:  No. 6, the par 5, I was on the front of the green it was a pretty long putt, hit pretty fast.  So I went below the hole and I putt back and I made it, but it looked like maybe six foot, five foot.

Bogeyed No. 10.  Hit it left on the rough, it was a pretty tough shot and tried to get out, and I mean, it went around but still was in the rough and hit it from there and two putts.  The putts were    the first putt was ten foot.

11, that was a pretty good hole.  I hit the rescue and I was a bit short of the green and I made a really good putt, I don't know, maybe 20 foot.

15, the par 5, I hit a good drive and then pretty good 3 wood and it was kind of a long putt.  I think the pin was way back and I hit it a little thin again, my putt, and was like maybe five foot.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Were you on in two with your 3 wood?
NICOLE PERROT:  Yes.
PAUL ROVNAK:  How far was the first putt, do you think?
NICOLE PERROT:  Between 15 and 20.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Then you birdied 17, another par 5.
NICOLE PERROT:  Birdied 17.  I hit, that hole was really quite tough.  We had a lot of wind.  I played drive and then rescue and hit a 9 iron into it very close and then made the putt, three foot.

I bogeyed 18.  I hit a great drive and then the second shot was in the left bunker.  I hit it out and had two putts, probably ten feet, maybe more, 15.
Q.  Inaudible?
NICOLE PERROT:  For girls?  I still think that sport in my country is very small.  I actually think that in all our sport, the only person other that is playing out there is like for running maybe or something like that a couple of them, just a few tournaments international.  I think really the big sport is soccer, for sure, football for sure.
Q.  What about golf?
NICOLE PERROT:  It's getting popular.  It's getting popular and getting there, but not really.  A few of them, but I think it's getting there, definitely.
Q.  Inaudible?
NICOLE PERROT:  Professionally, a lot.  I think it's so tough.  I mean, I don't know why we have so    just a few of us.  I think football is bigger.  I think that it's tough to get the money to play outside the country and make it like professionally.

The two biggest sports right now is tennis and football for sure.
Q.  So then what do you do?
NICOLE PERROT:  It's more hockey and football and running.  I mean, tennis is big.  But in women's, there is something wrong with women's in my country, they really don't like sports.  For fun, yeah, but professionally, you don't see them much at all.
Q.  So how did you get involved?
NICOLE PERROT:  Me?  I started playing golf when I was four or five in my town.  I played a lot and my brother, my big brother was very good, he played a lot and he teach me and I think I followed him a little bit.  I mean, I started playing golf and I started playing tennis, I really love sport since I was very little.  I really love sport and was very into it.
Q.  Do you have any female golfers that are admired?
NICOLE PERROT:  Well, it's just me, but it used to be many years ago like amateurs, we play like World Amateurs and South American country competitions, there's teams and all that.  But profession all, not really.

I think it's really because, there's great players, the thing is, it's so tough to get in to play professional, it's very tough.
Q.  Is it hard to get sponsors in professional sports for girls?
NICOLE PERROT:  Very hard.  It's very hard because sports is not popular.  There are 58 golf courses in the whole country and they are all private.  The government is working on the first public golf course.  It's going to be finished this year.  I hope it's going to be finished.  They are working and we have a few driving range and stuff and they are all in the capital.

But this last year, I think the sport is growing very fast, very, very fast, even in school, kids, juniors, it's really getting bigger and we are make something things with football and other players are like really into golf and I think that's helping in the country getting it more popular.
Q.  How well known are you in Chile?
NICOLE PERROT:  Yeah, it's pretty much, because I'm the only one, you know.  It's tough, also, to get it going, the sport and it's because people don't know about the sport as much.  Like every people, they know the person that is playing and everything, but like the golf, the sport, not really.  So I think that's the sad part.
Q.  What's the name of your golf club?
NICOLE PERROT:  I play in Grenadilla (phonetic) and Sport Process (phonetic).  That's the two golf clubs I play.
Q.  Have there been any successful male players in Chile?
NICOLE PERROT:  We did have a couple.  There's one other that plays the European Seniors Tour, Guillermo Encina.  But all of them, yeah, they are pretty good.  But in South America, it's so tough for them to get the money to play outside.
Q.  Do boys in Chile approve of girls playing sports?
NICOLE PERROT:  Yeah, I think it's good.  I haven't had problems with that.  (Laughter).  I think that's good for me.
Q.  Have you ever played in conditions like this before in your homeland?
NICOLE PERROT:  Not really.  Back home, never.  The weather never gets that bad.  The golf course, if you go and train and the weather is like that, they close the golf course, you know.  It's like my coach, Gary, he's from South Carolina, so I've been with him and he has an academy there.  So this year, I went there and I was training in this weather.  It wasn't fun, though.
Q.  Inaudible?
NICOLE PERROT:  Not really, no.  In a few years I started to learn how to play in it.  The weather, for me, it's not my favorite.  For me, it's a hot summer for sure.
Q.  Is this your first experience playing a links golf course?
NICOLE PERROT:  Yeah, I remember in the World Amateur, I can't remember the year in Berlin, that was my last.  We played links there, and just a few tournaments.  With the AGJA I came here and I played the Junior British Open.  It was on another golf course here.
Q.  Did you like the U.S. Open?  How much has that experience helped you for this week?
NICOLE PERROT:  Yeah, I mean, I think it's the first day.  I think I really    I mean, played good.  I'm really comfortable.  It was really tough playing out there, but still I'm very happy about it and yeah, I feel the Open was a great experience for me and my first year, to be in that position and learn how to play there and learn to be patient.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT