U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 24, 2005
Nicole Perrot
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Nicole, Lorena was talking about she was happy not to be in the lead because she felt it was more pressure.  How do you feel?
 NICOLE PERROT:  I don't worry about to be in the lead or score.  I think it's pretty tough golf course, playing really tough.  So I mean, I really focus about playing shot by shot, not really about score.  I think it's -- two more days, two very tough days, I mean, the same so far have been very tough.  So I think I am more focus about that to play shot by shot, my routine.
Q.  What is it about USGA events that you play so well?
 NICOLE PERROT:  (Laughs).  I don't know.  I guess I like it.  It's good.  I have good memories of USGA tournaments like junior, I think it's a little bit different (laughs).  It's way different, but still good memories.
Q.  Did you come into this tournament thinking that you might play really well?
 NICOLE PERROT:  Yeah.  This is my rookie year on Tour.  I think that every week that I play even the U.S. Open, I mean, I think -- you never know what can happen on any given day, good things or bad.  That's my mental -- I really think yeah, whatever can happen.  Just here to have fun, enjoy to be here and stay really focus and shot by shot.

I think that's very important.
Q.  What did you do during the delay?
 NICOLE PERROT:  It was pretty tough day after that 40 minutes was pretty long really tough.  I said congratulations.  She shot a great round.

She's a great player.
Q.  How popular is golf in Chile?
 NICOLE PERROT:  We're working on that.  I am the only golf pro there.  Women's golf -- golf in Chile is very small.  Tennis, soccer get the lead, for sure, but second tennis is growing up with --

I mean Top-20 players that we have Marcelo Rios used to be No. 1.  Right now being on the Tour and all my sponsors are very popular sponsors, I mean, of the whole country, so I think that helps.  But we're still working.

It's very small though.
Q.  If you were to hold on, what would it means to your country?
NICOLE PERROT:  I think big, I think big.  Really big because I mean, I am the only athlete woman in my country that's playing actually something right now.  We have a couple, but not like competitive -- outside the country, so, I think it's huge.  Huge.  But I mean, my goal -- like an athlete besides also sports goals, I think is to get, I mean, getting the sport bigger back home.  I am working hard on that, making things for kids, my sponsor, too.  I think it's getting bigger.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT