U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 23, 2005
Nicole Perrot
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. What is it about the USGA Championships that makes you play well?
 NICOLE PERROT:  I don't know.  I think I like it.  I don't know, I think, yeah, I have a good -- I mean, like, junior good memories, great tournaments over there.  I think this is much different between that.

U.S. Open the golf course is pretty tough.  I like it though, it's a very nice golf course but it's playing really tough.
Q.  Do you believe the putting was the secret of your round today?
 NICOLE PERROT:   I think, yeah, important thing in this golf course is to be on the fairway.  The rough is really thick.  If you are in the rough, that's it.  So I mean, the important thing is to be in the rough, yeah, make a few putts.  I leave pretty close second shots in the back nine, so I think that helped me.
Q.  27 putts, that's a good --
 NICOLE PERROT:  Yeah, that's good putting.  I think that -- the good thing today with my round, pretty close the second shots to the hole, so that really helped me.
Q.  Let's go over your card.  No. 1 you birdied.
 NICOLE PERROT:  I hit a 9-iron, like.  Left it pretty close to the hole.
Q.  Six feet?
NICOLE PERROT:  I mean, yeah, yeah.  One foot, yeah.
Q.  No. 3.
NICOLE PERROT:  It was like this (indicating four feet) I hit a wedge 56.
Q.  No. 4.
NICOLE PERROT:  I hit easy 5, a iron, and 3-wood and 5-iron.  Maybe ten feet.
Q.  Bogeyed 5.
NICOLE PERROT:  I hit 3-wood from the tee, went left in the rough, then chipped it out, then missed the green and two putts.
Q.  Birdie on 7.
NICOLE PERROT:  I hit rescue again and 9-iron.
Q.  How long was your putt?
NICOLE PERROT:  Six feet, I'd say.
Q.  Bogey on 9.
NICOLE PERROT:  I didn't pull it.  I started a little bit left and kick and ran between the corner of the rough, it was there, then I chipped it out, then just went to the green and two putts, so --
Q.  Bogey on 11 and bogey on 12.
NICOLE PERROT:  Bogey No. 11, the par 5, actually, I bogeyed the two par 5s.
Q.  How did you bogey it?
NICOLE PERROT:  Second shot I lay up, missed it right on the rough, then just had to, I mean, take it in the fairway, and on the green and have pretty good chance to make par, but I missed it.
Q.  12.
NICOLE PERROT:  I three-putt 12.  Hit 5-iron to the green, little right then have a really long -- three-putt.
Q.  14 you bogeyed, you missed the fairway off the tee there?
NICOLE PERROT:  I missed it right, way right, then also came into the fairway -- chipped out again and then was just left -- third shot was short of the green then two-putt from there.
Q.  16 was a birdie.
NICOLE PERROT:  Yeah, hit 3-wood and then second shot I hit 7.
Q.  How long was the putt?
NICOLE PERROT:  Pretty long.  It was like, I don't know, 20-foot, maybe.  Kind of the right side of the green and going down.  I think it was the longest putt that I made today for sure.
Q.  17, birdie.
NICOLE PERROT:  Yes, I hit it with a 56 again.  The third shot really left it close again, maybe two feet.
Q.  You worked with Gary Gilcrest, who was Michelle Wie's teacher?
 NICOLE PERROT:  Yeah.  This is my fourth year with Gary.  I think I build a great relationship with him.  That's what I look to -- I look forward with all my trainers, especially with him.

Yeah, he has been teaching me a lot, helping me a lot here, I mean, about golf, to be on the Tour, everything.  That's really helped me.  I am happy about it.
Q.  Sound like most of your bogeys came when you missed the fairway off the tee?
NICOLE PERROT:  Yeah.
Q.  Those lies in the rough, yeah, you could go for it or no, you can't go for it?
 NICOLE PERROT:  No, not at all.  The two times that I was in the rough was really bad, really bad lie.  Still think that in the golf course, especially in this golf courses, that's what it's all about.  If you are in that rough, I mean, it's tricky.  You think yeah, I can get it out with 7- or 8-iron, but it's no way.  It's really thick.  You have to be really patient about that, I think especially that's what is about, this golf course, just take it out in the fairway and then see what happens.
Q.  Do you think the greens will be the same as the tournament goes on or will they be tougher?
 NICOLE PERROT:  I think they can make it quicker.  It is just -- there's a couple of pretty tough, I mean, holes.  I don't know if the balls will stop, with the second shots because they are really, I mean, soft:  Today I think they were pretty good about that.  They weren't that soft and even yesterday.  I think that's -- so, I don't know, I think they are going to get a little bit faster, yeah, for sure.
Q.  With Morgan playing well also do you sort of play off each other a little both playing well sort of helps you a little?
 NICOLE PERROT:  Yeah, I think that it always helps when your group is playing well.  That's good for motivation, you see good shots.  I think it's helped a lot, the three of us playing good golf, yeah, I think it helps us to keep it up, yeah.
Q.  What do you expect of yourself -- (inaudible) --
 NICOLE PERROT:  I just think that's -- I expect shot by shot, every day is different, see how the golf course is reacting every day.  I go there and have fun.  It's a tough golf course, I am enjoying.  This is my third U.S. Open.  It's great to have the opportunity to play here.  I am having fun playing out there.  It's really, yeah, for sure, enjoy it a lot.  Especially this golf course, I really like it and I really think it's a good test for patience.  Out of this rough it's really thick, so we'll see.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT