U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 3, 2001
Nicole Perrot
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








NICOLE PERROT:  I am very excited about that.  I am really happy.  I am playing really good.  I think, yeah, that would be great, but I think I am just thinking about go over there and do my best and enjoy.

Q.  Two weeks ago would you have anticipated that you could have played this well to put yourself in this position to win one and let alone to put yourself in position to win a second.  Did you think you had that in you in your game?

NICOLE PERROT:  Yeah, I think, but I can think all the things, but (laughs) I have to do it.

Q.  What was the key to your game today?  Seemed like your putting was on.

NICOLE PERROT:  Yeah, I think today I played really good.  I made like one bogey. 

ANDRES PRIETO:  Why do you look at me?

Q.  It is your fault.  It is always the caddy's fault.

NICOLE PERROT:  I putt good.

Q.  She made you work for it.  She missed a fairway or got into the bunker, it wasn't an easy hole for you, you had to -- seemed like you had to work  -- she wasn't giving you anything out there, in other words.

NICOLE PERROT:  Yeah, she plays very good.  The last holes she make it very good because she put pressure, she start to play better and I think she really make a good match.

Q.  Yesterday you got into trouble on the 2nd hole when you hit into the bunker.  That didn't really happen at all to you today.  You were maybe in the rough a little bit more.  Yesterday on No. 2?

ANDRES PRIETO:  In the morning, right? 

Q.  In the afternoon.

NICOLE PERROT:  I was in the bunker, yeah.

Q.  But today you didn't have any kind of shots like that.

NICOLE PERROT:  No, today I hit very good, the ball.

Q.  Did you play the kind of game that with the pressure like this that you want to play?  If you visualize a match this is how you want to play?

NICOLE PERROT:  Yeah.

Q.  In what way?

ANDRES PRIETO:  I think she just go out there and tried to play very good, to try to hit the ball well, to put the ball in good position and tried to make a lot of putts.  I think that's the key.

NICOLE PERROT:  Tried to hit the ball, that's the key.

Q.  How many bogeys have you made all week?

NICOLE PERROT:  The first day a lot (laughter).

ANDRES PRIETO:  Yeah, the first two days was very tough with the wind.

NICOLE PERROT:  First two days I didn't play very good the first two days, but then I start playing better.  I putt better.  I was getting with my confidence better.

Q.  You were sitting on the floor in the hotel last flight about 6 o'clock, 6:30 on phone talking to somebody.  Who were you talking to?

NICOLE PERROT:  With a friend.

Q.  It was a Chilean person, I guess, talking to home?

NICOLE PERROT:  No, with a friend.

Q.  How were the conditions?  Are you a better player without the wind, do you think this week?  Seemed last two days your game has stepped up a little bit and the winds have died down; is that coincidence or is your game better suited  ---

NICOLE PERROT:  I think it is more easy just to play without wind, but I think just wind it doesn't matter but I think it is more easy.

Q.  A lot hotter?

NICOLE PERROT:  With wind it is very hard.

Q.   Considering what you have done, are you going to feel pressure tomorrow?

NICOLE PERROT: No, just go out there and have fun.  I make a lot of good things very good.  I have no pressure about anything. 

ANDRES PRIETO:  She really likes playing with pressure.  Tomorrow she's going to feel  -- I don't think she's going to feel it.  She just want to go out there and play.  Try to do the best --  right now she's very happy with all the things that she has done with the title last week and with the final in this week, but tomorrow of course she's going to try to win.  She really thinks that she has the game and she feels very confident with the putter and all the game.

Q.  Last week it was 18 holes for a final.  Tomorrow it will be 36.  Do you approach it any different knowing that it is a little bit longer day?

NICOLE PERROT:  Yeah, more different, but  -- it is much different, but it doesn't care very much.

Q.  How could it be  -- she will be able to go 36 holes.

NICOLE PERROT:  (Laughs).

Q.  Do you feel like there are any weaknesses, I mean, after these last few days do you feel there's any weakness in your game right now?

NICOLE PERROT:  I think it's not weakness.  I think, you know, all days are different.  All shot are different.  I am not pro, I can hit bad shots and good shots.  It is like really  --

ANDRES PRIETO:  She said like she doesn't have it -- everyday is different everyday, you are going to hit different kind of shots, and she doesn't feel like she has a weakest part in her game.  She just feels like  --

NICOLE PERROT:  I am not perfect, but  --

ANDRES PRIETO:  Yeah.

Q.  Right now  everything seems to be going right?

NICOLE PERROT:  Yeah.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT