NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: HARTFORD
March 20, 2019
Carsen Edwards
Ryan Cline
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So since the draw, what have you seen from Old Dominion that would concern you?  
RYAN CLINE: Well, they obviously have three really good guards.  Their one and two complement each other very well.  Obviously, from a guard defensive standpoint, we are going to have to do a good job tomorrow night.   
CARSEN EDWARDS: Yeah, just kind of following on what he said, they have some guards that can do a lot, very versatile with scoring the ball, whether that's putting it on the floor, catch and shoot, and just kind of getting in the paint.  Just being able to contain the dribble and make it hard for them -- contest their shots is what is most important for us.   
 Q.  Do you know who you'll be defending?  Can you say out loud who you'll be defending?  
RYAN CLINE: I don't know if we can say that for sure.   
 Q.  Can you say it quietly?  
RYAN CLINE: No, I don't think so.  Sorry.   
THE MODERATOR: Do you want to make just a general comment on what kind of defense you will need to play to be successful tomorrow?   
RYAN CLINE: We're obviously going to have to keep them out of the paint like Carsen said.  They like to get in the paint and feed keep their big guys down low.  As long as we keep them out of the paint and just have them shoot contested shots, we'll be all right.   
 Q.  Carsen, we were just grilling you in Chicago about your back.  How do you feel now?  What's the progress there?  
CARSEN EDWARDS: I'm okay.  Just taking it day by day, just trying to get treatment and things like that.  I don't want it to be a big deal or anything like that.  I'm fine.  I just want to be able to help my team win.   
 Q.  Coach Painter talked earlier this week about how after a few down years earlier in the decade, you guys started having success when you started getting Purdue guys into the program.  What is the Purdue guy, in your opinion?  What defines a Purdue guy?  
RYAN CLINE: I just feel like, you know, I think Grady Eifert's a really good example.  He's just a blue-collar guy who really had to earn his way throughout his career at Purdue.  They came with a lot of hard work and a lot of education.  I feel like that's what Coach Painter has been recruiting.  Obviously with some shooters, he's done pretty well, too.   
CARSEN EDWARDS: Yeah, I mean, I kind of look at it as just kind of going off the people I'm around on the team.  There's good guys around me that understand the game well, but then also are good guys off the floor and are smart guys.  Smart guys that know the game, well like I said.  And are good dudes off the floor that are understanding.  I feel like that's a Purdue guy in my opinion, going off the people that I play with and people I'm around.   
 Q.  Yeah, coming into this, you lost two of your last three games.  Any concern about the way you're playing and what can you do to turn it in the right direction?  
RYAN CLINE: I mean, there's really no particular concern.  I feel like we were in -- those two losses that we had, there were just some things down the stretch that didn't go our way.  I feel like we had some shots -- or we had some chances in those two games to win.  So there are a couple of things that we needed to clean up.  But we just need to get better at the things we are already good at.   
THE MODERATOR: Carsen, anything to add there?   
CARSEN EDWARDS: I guess I can kind of say the same thing Ryan said.  I feel like it's a new season in a way, and just trying to move on and focus on this game we have at hand tomorrow.  But we take those mistakes and learn from them from the games we've lost.  Even the last game we won, we still had mistakes.  We learn from every game, but also we just try to move forward and focus on this one game we have tomorrow night.   
 Q.  What is it like to get locked on with Nojel in practice or what is it like to have him locked on you when he's on defense?  
RYAN CLINE: Obviously from an offensive standpoint, when he's guarding you, it's very tough.  He's just such a big guy for a point guard, and he moves like a point guard, but he's got the body of a forward.  So obviously it's challenging.  He's tough to stay in front of.  He's quick.  He's elusive.  He just know how to play the game the right way especially with his skill set.   
CARSEN EDWARDS: I feel like it makes it tough, especially with him longer than me and a little bigger than me.  I feel like it makes it tough.  Also he's a strong dude, moves well.  I go at him, too.  He's a strong dude.  He moves well.  He's athletic.  Good build.  He's tough.  He makes it tough for a lot of people.  Makes us better.  Sorry, he makes us better.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT