NCAA MEN'S REGIONAL SEMIFINALS AND FINALS: LOUISVILLE
March 27, 2019
Carsen Edwards
Ryan Cline
Grady Eifert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What game was it, you made 13, 15 3s?
CARSEN EDWARDS: Yeah.  I had 50, 51 that night.
Q. What was that night like?
CARSEN EDWARDS: Yeah, so good.  Yeah.
Q. Carsen, what was the energy with this group this morning?  Lively practice, pretty good energy.
CARSEN EDWARDS: Oh, yeah.  And that was the kind of thing I was focusing on, bringing energy.  At the same time, at this level, the opportunity to take the stage and things like that, I felt like you shouldn't need someone to, you know, get you going and things like that.  Because not everybody has this opportunity.  So I'm just excited to be here and have this opportunity.
Q. Was there a mentality to not get too high after the Villanova win, level it off, say we've got something to do here?
CARSEN EDWARDS: Absolutely.  Enjoy the moment.  Get with a big group of guys you enjoy being around them.  It's excitement at that already.  To be able to win that game, just continue to stay focused.  We're all happy to play basketball, the season isn't over yet.
Q. What's the focus of this, getting ready for Tennessee?  This team offers a lot.
GRADY EIFERT: Yeah, they can hurt you in a lot of different ways.  We've got to be ready to go, have good focus.  After our win in the round of 32, the transition to Sweet 16 and have a focus of what's at stake and what we have to do to come out with a win.
Q. You mentioned they have a lot of weapons.  They have four starters that score in double figures.  How do you slow down a team that dangerous on offense?
GRADY EIFERT: Collectively as a group, it's not just one guy guarding their best players.  They have a lot of good players.  It's going to be a whole team effort.
Q. Was there a mentality to not get too high after the Villanova win, having to level that off, we have work to do still?
GRADY EIFERT: We've done a good job this year of not getting too high, not getting too low.  We started off not too high and not one time was the look on our faces, we didn't think the season was ever over.  We still had our goals in sight.  Even when we did win the Big Ten championship, we never got too high.  Our main goal was to get to the NCAA tournament and make a run at it, as well.
So, yeah, even after a win like that, where you shoot the ball well and do a lot of really good things, you still have to go back and look at the mistakes.
Q. What about these two little girls means so much to you?
RYAN CLINE: They just mean a lot.  They always put a smile on my face.  It means a lot that they're going to be able to see it.  I'm happy for them.  I've got a picture of Ashlyn when she's like four on the dashboard of my car, and she's doing this (indicating).
My sister told me the story, they're just taking cheer pictures, and she didn't tell her to pose.  She just, like, does this little like sidearm and one arm.  It's my favorite picture.
Q. Were you surprised by the reaction of all the Instagram folks?
RYAN CLINE: Yeah, I mean, I didn't expect it.  I didn't expect that to happen.  First of all, I made a post and my sister made me feel bad about that.
Q. How often do they come to watch you play?
RYAN CLINE: Collectively, in college, I'd say five or six times.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT