NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: SHARKS v BLUES
May 24, 2016
Patrik Berglund
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions for Patrik Berglund.   
   
 Q. Third time now in the playoffs you're going to face an elimination game. What has the past taught you for tomorrow?  
PATRIK BERGLUND: I think we obviously have to stay positive, first of all. I think we do. I think the game yesterday was one of the better games I think from both teams. A lot of good things that we have to bring to the game tomorrow.   
   
 Q. When you face elimination like this, you guys have been through this before, what is the demeanor, attitude? How different is it?  
PATRIK BERGLUND: Like I said, I mean, you just got to stay positive. Obviously we know what type of game it is. We got to be excited about it. These games are the games that you live for and want to play.   
We just got to get out there and put everything out there and execute, play our best game in the playoffs so far.   
   
 Q. Playing a more simple game, what does that mean for you? What should we see?  
PATRIK BERGLUND: Getting pucks deep, get into the forecheck, and win battles that way. That's I think how we create our chances, too.   
So far we've been obviously playing a more simple game on the road. That's something we got to do tomorrow, too. If we execute that well, we know we're going to get our scoring chances and hopefully put a few in.   
   
 Q. Playing more simple on the road, is that more of a coincidence? Is there a reason for that as opposed to home?  
PATRIK BERGLUND: I mean, I wish somehow we played a bit more simple at home obviously. I think we're just maybe a little too excited when we play at home, try to make a few more plays here and there.   
Obviously what you've seen on the road is good, it's positive. We need to play one of those road games again. We all know we can do it, too.   
Like I said, we're just going to go out there tomorrow and be excited and execute the game plan.   
   
 Q. There's been a few times in the playoffs, like the other day when you were down 2‑1, you needed to play well, and you had your best game. You need that again. Why does it take sometimes for you to have your backs against the wall to bring the best out of you?  
PATRIK BERGLUND: Obviously we don't really want to have our backs against the wall. It's just how it goes. I mean, it's two really good teams going at it. We played some really good hockey. They will obviously play great hockey, too.   
It's going to go back and forth like this. I think the team that bounces back quickest, gets to the game first, obviously tomorrow will be victorious.   
   
 Q. Are you surprised how San Jose has been able to handle Tarasenko this series?  
PATRIK BERGLUND: They're a good team, both offensively, and they're good in their own end, too. So far they've been doing a good job. They've been taking away some space from us.   
I think the team and myself are very confident that we're going to come out and play a great game tomorrow.   
   
 Q. What does he mean to your team? How important is it to you guys moving forward?  
PATRIK BERGLUND: I mean, he's a big piece of this team. Obviously he really means a lot to us. Like I said, not only him, we all got to come out and play our best game tomorrow.   
   
 Q. Other than just staying positive, are there specific on‑ice strategies or things you've been able to use in the two prior Game 7s that you can bring into this one?  
PATRIK BERGLUND: Well, I think it's our turn again to do a little bit of adjustments. That's something we going to meet about and talk about tonight.   
But overall we do have some experience now in these type of situations. Like I say, you can't see this as a burden. This is just an exciting time. Just got to go out there and play a great 60 minutes.   
   
 Q. When you make the mistakes, they seem to capitalize on them, is it a case of trying to force a play instead of letting it develop? What do you think it is?  
PATRIK BERGLUND: It's hard. The game is fast out there. Things just happen. I think obviously when you make a mistake, the other guy has to be there and pick the guy up, whatever.   
So far I think we've been doing a good job of it. But obviously we got to take away some of their scoring chances. They've been getting some grade‑A scoring chances. That's something we got to try to defend and take away obviously.   
   
 Q. What is your confidence level with both your goalies?  
PATRIK BERGLUND: Both are great. We all believe in both of them. Whatever happens tomorrow, whoever is in net, I have no idea yet, that's a question for Ken, but we trust them both for sure.   
Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT