UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT SAN ANTONIO FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 12, 2019
Lowell Narcisse
Carl Austin III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








UAB - 33, UTSA - 14
Q. Carl, can you describe the mood in the locker room? What's the mindset with the team at this point of the season?
CARL AUSTIN III: Well, it's of course disappointment in there right now because that was our game to win. We were in there in the fourth quarter. We just had some silly mistakes. But just being in this leadership position both Lowell and I, we got to stress to the players that we still got to work on our stuff, still got to come back next week and play Rice, so we got to work on our stuff and get back to the drawing boards.
Q. Does that make it easier or tougher emotionally when you say you feel like you're that close but you're just a couple plays away.
CARL AUSTIN III: I mean any time we lose it's hard, but it's just a tough one right now. But we're going to be all right, we're going to get back to the drawing board and go even harder this week for homecoming next week.
Q. Lowell, what were some of the biggest challenges of getting the pass game going?
LOWELL NARCISSE: Just executing. We had plays out there to be made tonight. Obviously I wish I had the first third down, back I had Carlos wide open down the middle of the field. It's one of those you get too excited for. I felt like we had a lot of opportunities to take advantage of one-on-one matchups we had and like I said, just we were right there, we were right there. We were two or three plays from us winning this game.
Q. I think you guys took a lot of deep shots in the game. Was that part of the game plan from the beginning or was that just what they were giving you?
LOWELL NARCISSE: We knew coming into this week we were going to have opportunities to take advantage of the one-on-ones, and I said that we had to come back and like we were right there, we said it, we were right there, make two or three catches it's a whole different ball game.
Q. Carl, they had a pretty big day passing the ball. What were some of the biggest challenges they presented to you in that sense?
CARL AUSTIN III: We just got to stay true to our keys on defense, just play our role and just make plays. We got players in the right spots to make plays, we just got to execute, execute and make plays. But the gap is closing with the elite teams in Conference USA with UTSA, we're right there, we're a few plays from being in the conversation, we are in that conversation, we just got to execute and show it. Like I believe what we have right now is one of the best teams we have ever had, we just got to put the pieces together and show it. We just got to feel it.
Q. Lowell, I think it was like late in the third quarter you guys had a fourth and one at about the five or six yard line going in to try to score. Tell me what you saw on that play, the toss that ended up not making it?
LOWELL NARCISSE: What play was it?
Q. Here, the fourth and goal -- or not fourth and goal but fourth and one, you were right there inside the 10.
LOWELL NARCISSE: Yeah, I'm having a hard time, it was a rough night, so obviously we had a lot of opportunities and we were right there, we were right there. That drive, the first drive, we're looking at the ball game, and we were up 28-16, and it was a whole different conversation that we would be having right now. But come back and look at it tomorrow and, like Carl said, we're right there, just keep believing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT