AMERICAN CENTURY CELEBRITY GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2002
Dick Andersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  You're tied for second place. 
DICK ANDERSON:   Good.  Better than third. 

Q.  Can you take us through some of the highlights of your round? 
DICK ANDERSON:   I actually played pretty well today, with the exception of two holes.  I made six birdies.  And unfortunately, double-bogeyed 14 from 107 yards in, or 114 in, and then I double-bogeyed 13 and 15 I doubled.  I hit it in the trap in two and then just left it in the trap and knocked it out and had a 4-foot putt on one hole and five-foot putt on the other and missed both of them.
Other than the two double-bogeys, I really played pretty well.

Q.  What were your birdies like? 
DICK ANDERSON:   Birdied 2.  Knocked it about five feet. 
I birdied 6.  I hit a drive, the wind was behind me, and hit a drive around the corner and hit a little 60-yard shot in about two feet and birdied that.
Then 7, I hit an 8-iron in to that par 3 and had about an eight-foot putt and made it.  Had two birdies in a row there. 
Was able to par 8 and 9. 
I hit a driver on 10 off in the rough and missed the green.  Had a good five- or six-foot putt and messed it.
11, I hit a 3-wood off the tee into the trees in the right.  So I took a 7-iron and hit it under the tree and it rolled up on the fringe of the green, about pin-high and I knocked the putt in.  So that's my best birdie of the DAY.

Q.  How far was that? 
DICK ANDERSON:   It was pin-high, so it was probably 20, 30 feet. 
Then hit a very good drive on 14 and hit it in about six or eight feet and knocked the putt in. 
Then 16, I hit a very good drive and a very good 3-wood.  I had about a 15-foot putt for eagle and missed it.  So I birdied 16. 
Then missed a birdie putt on 17 and 18. 
All in all, I had the ball in play and I made some birdie putts and made one long putt, is all.  But leaving it in two traps and missing two short putt didn't make me very happen.

Q.  This is kind of familiar territory for you at this point.  Second place is a place you've seen before?
DICK ANDERSON:   Second and third. 

Q.  Do you feel comfortable being here at this point? 
DICK ANDERSON:   Yeah, you know, on this golf course, there are two things that you have to do:   One, you have to keep your drives and first shots in play.  And two, you have to make some putts.  You know, it's really all about putting. 
I think they tried  -- they made the course a little friendlier today than yesterday.  They moved some tees up.  We just choke too much. 
There's so many places to get in trouble on this golf course.  You really have to keep a tempo and keep the ball in play.  That really is the most important thing on this golf course.  And then take advantage of the opportunities when you get the ball decently close, you have to make some putts.

Q.  Some of the people that you are going to be competing with tomorrow include Rhoden and Quinn.  How do you like your chances? 
DICK ANDERSON:   I beat Rick the first day, played with him.  I don't think I'm going to play with him.  Ivan came in at even  -- I think there were two people at even that got in before me. 
So depending on what Quinn got on the last hole, then he may end up 1-over.  So it would be Rhoden and the first two that got in at even, and then myself and the other one.  So, I don't know.  I'll be in probably the second group, it looks like, which is fine.

Q.  And as for your chances to win? 
DICK ANDERSON:   I have to keep the ball in play and make birdie putts.  You know Rick Rhoden is going to play well.  But, when Billy Joe won a few years back, what did he shoot the last day, 64 or 66? 
You know, a low round  -- anybody that shoots a low round tomorrow is going to win. 

Q.  We're still not as low as folks had thought we'd be at this point with the leaders, is there a reason for that after today, do you think? 
DICK ANDERSON:   I don't know.  I played real well today, but had a propensity to mess up when I got ahead and left one out in the trees. 
I think the golf course, the greens are definitely faster than they ever have been, so they are a real challenge. 
My son who, caddied for me said, "Gee, Dad, there's a lot of pins deep today."   So if you throw it too far back, you get in trouble.  That's what happened to me on 13.  I had 115 in and just hit an easy shot.  I hit it a little bit hard and the pin was deep, and it took one bounce and instead of spin back to the pin, it jumped into the trap.  I didn't even realize there was a trap back there.  It's just a matter of trying to get it close. 
On 11, the pin was all the way deep.  On 16, it was all the day deep.  On 17, it was all the day all the way deep.  You've got to really get it close and putt well. 

Q.  A bunch of those quarterbacks you were talking about yesterday fell off the pace today.
DICK ANDERSON:   Threw too many interceptions. (Laughs).  Defensive backs snuck up on them. 

Q.  Is your son a regular caddie for you? 
DICK ANDERSON:   He caddies occasionally for me.  He's a senior at Northwestern; so he flew in for the weekend.

Q.  What's his name? 
DICK ANDERSON:   Ryan. 

Q.  How old is he? 
DICK ANDERSON:   21.  I have three sons.  They all three have caddied for me here, and Ryan does a very nice job. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT