SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 22, 2015
Paul Goydos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. (No Microphone.)PAUL GOYDOS: It's getting windier again.  I don't think the guys who played yesterday in the morning are going to have the better of it again this afternoon.  So part of it is I think I had a little better tee times, too.Q. Is this one of those where you just need to hang around and hang around?PAUL GOYDOS: Well, to me there's no birdie holes.  You're just trying to make pars. Today, fortunately, I drove the ball pretty well and just made, turned every hole into a par-3 in a sense.  But, yeah, I made two birdies and shot 2-under par and was pretty happy with that. So, yeah, it's a course where you are just trying to make par every hole.  Even the holes that seem like normally are easy holes, par-5s and whatnot, fives are good scores.Q. Playing well coming in?PAUL GOYDOS: Better.  I played well obviously early in the year and then I went through a pretty bad stretch the last eight weeks or so, but it was a little bit better on the weekend last week. I thought I had a couple of decent days coming into this.  I didn't play poorly yesterday, I haven't really putted well either day, but I don't think anybody's necessarily putting well.  It's not the easiest golf course.  The greens are tough and the wind is blowing, it's cold.  But it was, it's getting better.Q. For you to have a chance on the weekend, what would something like this mean, even just to play well on the weekend?PAUL GOYDOS: Yeah, that's what I'm trying to do.  Come out here, this golf course is a challenging golf course and you're going to have to do everything well here.  You need to drive your ball well, hit your irons well, flight your ball well, hit the right shots, and your short game needs to be good, too. So I think playing well here is just going to give you confidence going forward that you're doing a lot of things right.  I really think that I'm happy with what I've done the first two days, but, again, this is a golf course you really need to mind your P's and Q's and if you don't it will bite you pretty quick.Q. 1-under right now leading, I don't think that would surprise anybody at the end of the day.PAUL GOYDOS: Not now.  The way the wind is starting to pick up a little bit.  Again, the poor guys who had to play early yesterday and late today, they're not getting the better of it. But the golf course was a little more getable today than it was I thought yesterday.  But, yeah, we were playing, we were thinking all along even par is going to be a pretty good score.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT