JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 1, 2011
Paul Goydos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Paul, what a great ball striking round for you. We have you hitting 16 of 18 greens. 
 PAUL GOYDOS: There you go. I didn't really add them up. I hit it good, hit it good yesterday, hit it pretty good on Thursday. In these tough weather conditions, all this wind, it's hard.

 Q. It is difficult playing in all the rain and all the wind we've had this week, but you're not hitting greens, you're also making some putts.
 PAUL GOYDOS: Yeah. I've scored well all three days really. Got about as much out of my rounds as I thought I was going to get, and I'm very happy.

 Q. You got off to a good start today. Did that give you some momentum going into the rest of the round?
 PAUL GOYDOS: Yeah. I mean the guys will make birdies. 17-under is leading and probably 22-under is going to win, so you have to make a lot of birdies, so I was just kind of trying to keep going.

 Q. Is it hard to keep your patience until you get to 13 in the scoring portion of the golf course?
 PAUL GOYDOS: No. You're going to have to. I mean there are some holes, when you hit good shots you're going to be rewarded with chances for birdie, no matter which hole it may be, whether on the Front 9 or Back 9. But it's kind of hard, so you have to do it. You just have to stay patient and wait for that little run to happen.

 Q. I know you say no that's not hard to do. That's because you're a veteran. I think there are some other people out here that may not have that same feeling.
 PAUL GOYDOS: Well, no. I'm as impatient as anybody, and this golf course kind of forces it on you on the back, with the Back 9 there are some opportunities if you hit good shots, but you know, you can hit it in the water on 16, 17, 18. There's a lot of problems out there, too. Just trying to keep it in the fairway or the greens and see what happens.

 Q. What are your thoughts going into the final round?
 PAUL GOYDOS: I like the way I'm playing. I think I need to play just a little bit better. I don't have to go to the range and try to find what those other shots are, but I'm happy with the way I'm playing, but it's not quite good enough yet for these guys. These young kids are tough.

 Q. We'll see on Sunday. You're pretty tough yourself.
 PAUL GOYDOS: Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT