RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 21, 2011
Paul Goydos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. When is the last time you were here? 
 PAUL GOYDOS: I thought it was '03, but it's been a while, I don't know.

 Q. What brought you back here for this one? 
 PAUL GOYDOS: It's on the west coast. I live on the west coast, so that's mainly why. Plus I hurt myself six to eight weeks ago and missed the cut.

 Q. You had a good start to the year. April and May looked solid, and what did you hurt? 
 PAUL GOYDOS: I cracked a rib at the Colonial. It kind of set me back.

 Q. Minus 2 today is a good score here on a challenging golf course. What is your take on the round? 
 PAUL GOYDOS: Yeah, it was fun. If you had told me I was going to shoot 2-under I wouldn't have even thought about playing. I just kind of held it together. I probably didn't play as well as 2-under. 

 Q. Do you like a difficult golf course like this? Does this appeal to you? It seems to be a mixed bag of players who like it some. 
 PAUL GOYDOS: This is a little bit difficult. First of all, it's a par 70 golf course. So arbitrarily it's short of par to make it look harder than it is. But I think it's a wonderful golf course. 
 Vancouver's biggest problem is it's so far from everything else, but the venue is very nice.

 Q. If you had two more days or three more days, do you think that's a number that would probably hold up? 
 PAUL GOYDOS: Well, you look at today, and today's weather, blew about 5 miles an hour. I can't imagine that looking at the scores right now, that the scores aren't going to be similar to that.

 Q. (Indiscernible)?
 PAUL GOYDOS: It wouldn't surprise me if something similar happens.

 Q. Do you think it's a good thing when you talk about being contrite. But do you think it's a good thing that they made it -- because for years they've talked of the Canadian Open being just another TOUR event --
 PAUL GOYDOS: It's certainly not another TOUR event. I don't know the high rough doesn't make it. But it is what it is, and it's the same for everybody else. I would argue this week a lot of weeks when we have rough like this you go ten yards into it, it's much better. This week if you go ten yards into it, you're really bad because they've got trees. 
 So in a sense it's a lot fairer than you normally do if you have rough like that.

 Q. It's double jeopardy. 
 PAUL GOYDOS: Well, I don't like it when the rough gets so thick that the fans trample it down. So if you hit it 30 yards offline, you're fine. That's not the case. The farther offline you are here, the worse you are.

 Q. Did you play Hamilton? 
 PAUL GOYDOS: I played Hamilton.

 Q. Did you like Hamilton? 
 PAUL GOYDOS: I do. It's the pacific northwest. This is historic golf country. That's more of a city style golf course. This is more country. Again, it's a majestic looking golf course. 
 The other one is a good, solid golf course. They're just totally different. They're both very good. If I would have picked two venues, I think Hamilton is probably the best venue to play the Canadian Open. This is the second best. But they flip-flop anyway you want to look at it. 
 You can't compare Shaughnessy and Hamilton to Glen Abbey. These are classic, old, good style golf courses. I didn't play St. Georges, so I can't answer that.

 Q. Very similar. Do you think finishing here, do you think those are the kind of golf courses that will -- they've done a lot to try to set up a rotation of those kind of golf courses?
 PAUL GOYDOS: It's going to help the event. They do a lot of things. Getting the charter from the British helps and things like that. I think the fact that it's a national open helps too. 
 (Indiscernible) I played Glen Abbey for so long. Hamilton I thought was fantastic. I played well there as well. This golf course, I think, is very, very good.

 Q. Do you think you'll be back for Hamilton next year? 
 PAUL GOYDOS: I didn't know it was Hamilton next year.

 Q. Yes, it is. Now you do. 
 PAUL GOYDOS: We'll look at the schedule. It's the week after the British, but I do like Hamilton. I didn't play -- I think I've played there once.

 Q. In '03 and '06. 
 PAUL GOYDOS: I played there in '03. Who knows what I'm doing. I might be retired by then. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT