JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 7, 2011
Paul Goydos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. ...birdies in a row, did you think, hmm, 59, I can do that again?
 PAUL GOYDOS: No, I was kind of hoping 69, quite frankly. Yeah, played good. Starts playing a lot harder.

 Q. Tell me about the conditions because everybody's saying it's a lot firmer, a lot faster than the last couple of years because of the lack of rain. How different was it?
 PAUL GOYDOS: Completely different. Yes, it plays shorter, but it plays harder. It's harder to kind of squeeze your ball in there some of the holes and stuff, but last year we were just shooting darts. The ball stopped where it landed. Today you had to kind of bounce it in a little, makes it more difficult.

 Q. And the three of you played great golf today, two 5-unders, a 7-under. That's kind of something you can feed off each other?
 PAUL GOYDOS: Hope so. Davis played great. Really probably could have been a little bit better. D.A. played quite well, too. So yeah, it was a fun group. We had a good time. And yeah, we all kind of made some putts a couple times. We all made birdies, which is kind of nice and kept the group in a good mood.

 Q. Keep shooting. Keep it up. Thanks for your time. 
 PAUL GOYDOS: Thank you. 

 Q. It wasn't a 59, but it was a solid first round. 
 PAUL GOYDOS: Yeah, I'm very happy with the way I played today. I had a good stretch there on the back, made four birdies and the course is playing a lot harder. It's a lot firmer and a little tougher to get it close to the hole.

 Q. You talked a lot about that two days ago in your press conference. How is the course? And it's not quite the perfect storm, I guess like it was last year. 
 PAUL GOYDOS: Right. Yeah. It's just harder, and this is the way it kind of was last year Tuesday -- I mean Wednesday, until the rain came in. The golf course, again, it looks like it plays shorter, and it does play shorter under these conditions, but it definitely plays more difficult. It's hard to squeeze it in under those bunkers and stop the ball close, and you really need to hit the ball well or it won't stop at all. So the golf course is in fantastic shape, and this is kind of what we expect here.

 Q. Paul, any particular shot or hole got you going today in your round?
 PAUL GOYDOS: Yeah, probably 13. I made three solid pars, and then 13 I had about a 20-footer for birdie and I hit it right in the center. Kind of calmed things down today. 
 I was trying to stay patient, and you know, it paid off in a sense right there. I made a good putt and that kind of -- birdied the next three holes, too. 

 Q. An early crowded leaderboard, but I'm sure that's kind of what you expected. 
 PAUL GOYDOS: Yeah. The golf course is in perfect shape. The guys who are playing well are going to shoot good scores. They're just not going to be ridiculous like last year. 
 But yeah, there's just too many good players for it not to be crowded. That's just the way it is now.

 Q. Does it help that you've been here before? It seems like some of the veterans, yourself, Steve, Davis are posting the great numbers here. 
 PAUL GOYDOS: Well, you know, I'm not surprised at Davis love and Steve Stricker play well. They play well every week. I mean I'm happy with the way that I play, but I think at the end of the week you're going to see names up on the leaderboard that are the same every week for a reason. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT