THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 15, 2011
Paul Goydos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tell us your thoughts. 
 PAUL GOYDOS: I'm actually quite pleased with the way I played today. Quite frankly, it's a tough course. I got off to a little bit of a low start, but the last 12 or 13 holes I think I hit -- I think the last 12 holes I hit every fairway, missed one green. 
 The 13th hole really was a good number. I hit a perfect distance, and just, you know, maybe gunged it a little right to avoid the water, and it just didn't catch the wind there. Probably going to end up being pretty costly.

 Q. Feel familiar from last time? 
 PAUL GOYDOS: Yeah, it did, from a how-I-hit-it standpoint, absolutely. I really drove the ball well this week. I hit the ball well. I was really happy with how I hit it. I made a couple of putts, which is something I haven't been doing all year.

 Q. Did you get very aggressive on 17 based on the leaderboard and where you were? 
 PAUL GOYDOS: Yeah, my feeling on that hole is I have a 9-iron in my hand. I'm actually aiming it right where I hit it, which is about 15 feet left of the hole. I should be able to hit a 9-iron 15 feet left of the hole, quite frankly.

 Q. Are you surprised that ball didn't trickle closer? 
 PAUL GOYDOS: Yeah, somehow Finchem suspended gravity for 15 minutes. I don't know how. But has any ball ever stopped on that hill? Ever, ever? I only nudged the ball and it rolled right down into the hole. So it was pretty funky.

 Q. I think you were surprised on 18 too that maybe your ball didn't get --
 PAUL GOYDOS: It was more of maybe I hit it right on the button and didn't aim aggressive enough for lack of a better word. I would argue that hitting a hook with a 5-iron is not where I live. I generally have a fade on the ball. That was just one of those deals where I had to hit a hook 5-iron and I actually hit it right on the button. The tee shot was as good as I can hit one. The 5-iron was as good as I can hit one. The first putt was not as good as I can hit one .

 Q. How close was your ball on 13? 
 PAUL GOYDOS: Not close enough. Eight feet, I would guess. And I didn't hit a good second putt there either. I hit it straight up the hill. I'd almost hit it downhill than straight up the hill with my putting.

 Q. Tough year for you. Where did this come from? 
 PAUL GOYDOS: No idea. It was a little better at Heritage. Last week I had a meltdown coming in on Friday, but I was actually playing okay. I like Bermudagrass and the weather. I think the weather is a big issue. I love the hot. It's been hot all week. I thought today the wind direction was very similar, though not as hard as the wind direction in '08 when I finished second. It was almost the same direction. 
 I guess I like this course. I didn't know it until '08, but I guess I like playing here.

 Q. What do you like about it? 
 PAUL GOYDOS: I like Bermudagrass. I don't understand why I like Bermudagrass being from California. And this time of the year in May, we're generally getting 80 to 90 ° weather, too, which I like at my age. It's a golf course you have to fit your ball a little bit more. 
 I do think they have the rough a little too high this year, which hurt that a little bit. But I'd love to come out and play with two-inch rough or one-and-a-half-inch rough and hard as a rock to see how high this course would end up that way. 
 But the golf course, if I'm playing good, fits me well.

 Q. It puts a premium on driving accuracy, which is one of your strengths?
 PAUL GOYDOS: Maybe. I can drive. I played with Quiros today. He didn't hit any drivers. I think it doesn't necessarily put a premium on driving accuracy. I think these guys are hitting a lot of 2-irons and 3-woods, but they're not hitting them too much farther than my driver. So I'm hitting from the same place, which helps me a little bit here.

 Q. Different comfort level on 17 this time than '08? 
 PAUL GOYDOS: Yeah, I'd say '08 was a huge help. I hit the wrong club in the playoff. I hit the wrong club in regulation in '08 and somehow got it on the green. And today was almost the exact same, I would guess. It was pretty close, and I hit one more club. Hit it good. Again, I'm still surprised the ball didn't roll down the hill.

 Q. If you get in a playoff, whoever you're up against isn't going to have experience with the pins in that spot in the playoff. Big edge?
 PAUL GOYDOS: Yeah, big edge. I really one of their chances to actually -- I don't know what's going on 17 -- to make a birdie.

 Q. KJ's birdie distance?
 PAUL GOYDOS: Yeah.

 Q. What do you have planned now and the determination? 
 PAUL GOYDOS: I don't know. I've never been in this situation before. They're on 17. I might wander over to the range.

 Q. How did this year feel different than '08? You talked about being nervous in '08. This one you had to play well to get into it. 
 PAUL GOYDOS: Yeah, today I had to finish well on the third round today. I'm a nervous person, without question. Today I'm playing good. I'm less nervous when I'm playing good because I know I'm playing good. 
 Today I wasn't faking around. I hit it on the button just about every hole, which is nice. And had pretty good control of the ball, so though I'm nervous, that's a more manageable nervousness than if I'm faking it around and trying to get it on to the 18th fairway when you're not swinging it good. That's real nervous. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT