THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2011
Paul Goydos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PAUL GOYDOS: Missed it left there. Had a good aggressive swing, just didn't work out. The shot on 17 didn't work out, but for the most part I hit it pretty good today. I made a couple bombs, and in the middle of the round, I made some putts. So all in all a good day.

 Q. You had no way of knowing this, but on 17 tee, TV threw up the graphic that said you had the best scoring average in the field?
 PAUL GOYDOS: Yeah, why wouldn't they do that? Yeah, I already knew that. I've made a lot of birdies there. I have another double now. But, you know, I think that's the thing they call aversion to the norm. 
 I made a good swing, but I made too good a swing. That wasn't what I was trying to hit.

 Q. What did you hit, pitching wedge? 
 PAUL GOYDOS: I hit 8-iron. I had 147, and trying to hit an 8-iron and kind of cut it against the wind to hold it up a little bit, and I just smoked it.

 Q. You played 18 pretty well, just bounced back? 
 PAUL GOYDOS: Yeah, a good 7-iron. I wasn't overly concerned. I would have guessed that the guys who played there two groups in front of us played that tee shot into the wind. We got to play downwind. I hit 7-iron in there. So a good tee shot, I hit 7-iron, and a pretty good putt.

 Q. Is 18 playing just a touch different, the pin being way up and moved the tee up a little, playing a touch easier today? 
 PAUL GOYDOS: I would guess. But you'd have to ask the guys who teed off on the back nine first this morning. I would think the wind was a totally different direction. I think the hole played hard for them. The guys who played it in the afternoon, if the wind stays like this where it's kind of helping them, you will see a lot more birdies.

 Q. Is the extra half inch of rough mattering out there over last year?
 PAUL GOYDOS: I think the extra half inch of rough keeps the ball from going into bad places. The shorter the rough is on this golf course, the higher the swings will be. The higher rough just stops the ball from going into bad places. You miss the green, it hits the rough stuff, and it stops two feet over the green. With the rough stuff there it goes 30 yards over there. I don't think it's made it any harder, I think, if anything, it's made it a little easier.

 Q. I wanted to ask you about 13. Is that a decent hole as long as the pin's on the left? Do you feel more comfortable with it? 
 PAUL GOYDOS: I'm more comfortable with the pin on the right. I think yesterday was easier, middle right. If you're not feeling good, you can leave it short and right and have a pretty easy chip if you're swinging it good and the wind was blowing to the right. It's kind of like hitting the ball into your roof. It slopes off both sides. Today it's on the left side, yesterday was on the right side. 
 If it were longer, again -- I hit 6-iron both days -- if it were a 3-iron, I don't think you'd see people happy with that.

 Q. I understand after last week, Friday, you expressed some frustration with the game and your game? 
 PAUL GOYDOS: Yeah, it was not very good. Today was good, but still didn't finish very well, still struggling. You take away the week at John Deere last year, it's really been a bad two years.

 Q. Did you work on anything Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday? 
 PAUL GOYDOS: No, same stuff.

 Q. Do you have good feelings out here? 
 PAUL GOYDOS: I like the course. I never really play well. My record here is horrible. Last year I got off to a good start I played bad on Sunday. I had a bunch of 50th place finishes or worse and half a dozen missed cuts. 
 I do like it better with Bermudagrass. It seems more comfortable. But my record here isn't great, but I think the golf course fits me pretty good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT