JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 10, 2010
Paul Goydos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Your thoughts?  
 PAUL GOYDOS: (Indiscernible). I played tee to green very well. I didn't putt as well as I'd like, but I played good. Just didn't play good enough.  
  
  Q. As well as you're playing, the guy is a buzz saw out there.  
 PAUL GOYDOS: Yeah. Yeah, he is. He's playing great. He's driving the ball in the fairway, he's hitting the balls on the greens and he's making putts.   
 He shot 188, I think, for three rounds. I thought 193 was pretty good. Maggert played good today. The scores are out there, and he's going to kind of dictate it. He shoots something in the mid 60s tomorrow, I gotta shoot something in the 50s.  
  
  Q. With how you were playing coming in, did you expect you'd have three rounds where you'd have a number this far under par?  
 PAUL GOYDOS: No. No. 59, 193 or 19-under. I lose track. But I've been playing better. You know, I've really been surprised if I made the cut. But no, I'm happy with the way things from progressed.  
  
  Q. Let's talk about the importance tomorrow of getting off to a good start maybe putting a little pressure on the round.   
 PAUL GOYDOS: I try that every day. I try to get off to a good start every day. The golf course I birdied 1 and 2 yesterday and today.   
 I think it's important, but don't be surprised if Steve doesn't get off to a good start, too. He really had a good chance to go up on us when he birdied the first three today.  
 But I just gotta go out and play and stay patient and try to catch him as low as I had the first day, make a few putts and make good things happen and not force it, forcing it's not going to make it happen any more.  
  
  Q. Paul, any thoughts on the earlier start in threesomes on Sunday?  
 PAUL GOYDOS: I think it's unfortunate for the tournament. Sunday afternoon, they're going to have fewer people probably because of church, fewer sales.   
 It's better than finishing on Tuesday or something. I don't think it really affects the golf any. I just kind of feel bad for some of the fans who might miss or for John Deere.  
  
  Q. Is it more difficult to make up a five-shot deficit on a course that's so vulnerable as opposed to maybe a more difficult course?  
 PAUL GOYDOS: I've never made up a five-shot deficit before. I think I've won from two shots back. I think you need to ask someone that's actually made up a five-shot deficit.   
 I would think -- it's going to be very difficult. If Steve shoots 4-under par tomorrow, someone's gotta shoot in the low 60s. It's been done twice this week. But he's going to kind of dictate that.   
 But I'm just going to go out and try to keep playing good and missed just one green and one fairway for the last two rounds, so I'm happy with the way the game is going and just keep doing the same stuff. Gotta make more putts.  
  
  Q. If Thursday was putting and Friday was ball striking, what was today --  
PAUL GOYDOS: I did as good today as I did yesterday. I just haven't putted as well. Part of that is not making good putts. Part of that is putts that you have a lot of times making putts because you really get on a putt that you're comfortable on. Maybe it's a downhill hook putt, like the one putt I made today on the par-4 out of the bunker, I had a little downhill breaking to the left. Those are comfortable putts.   
 A lot of putts I missed are ones maybe that I was uncomfortable with. I've hit it progressively better as the week has gone on and that's encouraging.   
  
  Q. Paul, another great round. One missed green, one missed fairway.  
 PAUL GOYDOS: Yeah. Yeah. Got steamrolled. (Laughs).   
 Yeah. I hit tee to green pretty good. I'm still a little average with the putter, but I was happy with the way I played. I just need to make more putts.  
  
  Q. Some more of this regression of the game we talked about yesterday?  
 PAUL GOYDOS: Yeah. Just haven't been good for two days. Again, I never know why these things happen. I can figure out bad, but I can never figure out good.  
  
  Q. You watched one of the great rounds played ever on Thursday. It was yours.  
 PAUL GOYDOS: Right.  
  
  Q. You watched another good one today, didn't you?  
 PAUL GOYDOS: He played very well. I held on to him for a little while.   
 But he hit it really good. He kept hitting the right clubs; he managed himself really well. He never really got into too much trouble. I think if he has a bad day, he shoots one or two shots -- made the one long putt and everything else was pretty solid, and he never hit a shot that didn't look like it was going in the right place. He's also ranked in the Top 5 in the world, and there's a reason for that.  
  
  Q. Got there any curses, potions, anything you can pull out for him when you play tomorrow?  
 PAUL GOYDOS: Well, definitely if this continues, I'm going to have to tell Corey he shouldn't make the team. (Laughs). It would be disrespectful, I think.   
 No, I think this is going to be all what he does. He's got a six-shot lead or something crazy, and he's going to set the tone, I think.  
  
  Q. You've got your passport with you, don't you?  
 PAUL GOYDOS: I do. I do. We'll see how that works out.  
  
  Q. Good luck to you.  
 PAUL GOYDOS: Thank you. I appreciate it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT