QUAIL HOLLOW CHAMPIONSHIP
April 30, 2010
Paul Goydos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You're at 6-under par halfway through this golf tournament. Interesting when you look at this leaderboard, Billy Mayfair at 8-under, Angel Cabrera at 7-under, yourself and J.P. Hayes among those at 6-under par. The golf course seems to sit well with veterans.   
 PAUL GOYDOS: Okay.  
  
  Q. Could you explain why?   
 PAUL GOYDOS: I don't think that's true. Anthony Kim has won here and Sean O'Hair has won here. We'll see how it ends up at the end of the week, but right now that's just an anomaly.   
  
  Q. So what's working for you this week?  
 PAUL GOYDOS: I've been managing well, scoring well. I really haven't played the greatest of my career, but I've kept the ball in play and I've made some putts when I needed to make putts and got up-and-down a few times, and here I am.   
  
  Q. A couple comments on your round.   
 PAUL GOYDOS: Well, second day of good scoring. I kind of hung in there. I was struggling a little bit off the tee and just kept plugging and plugging and plugging, and a couple putts fell in and I shot a couple under. It was a good day. I could have easily shot -- again, both days I could have easily shot 73 or 74 and somehow turned them into 68 and 70.   
  
  Q. No one seemed to be able to move real low today. Were the conditions markedly different or the scoring?   
 PAUL GOYDOS: No, I don't think so. It's a hard golf course. In fact, the back nine is much harder. We had a guy shoot 8-under par, I think, today. So guys are shooting low scores. You're not going to see guys shoot four 65s. It's just not going to happen. It's a hard golf course, and eventually you're going to make a mistake and you're going to pay for it. I made double on 12 today, for example. Guys are shooting good scores. We'll see how it works tomorrow, too, but it's not that easy to go 67, 67 around here. There's just too many problems.   
  
  Q. What's the best part of your game out there?  
 PAUL GOYDOS: So far for the two days it's been chipping and putting. I've made some good putts to keep rounds going. I drove the ball really well.   
  
  Q. How important is it this week to hit to a certain area of the greens?   
 PAUL GOYDOS: Well, it's important, but this is a golf course, too, there's certain places, I don't care who you are, if you hit it there, you're not going to two-putt or you're going to struggle to get the ball up-and-down. Like I said, on 12 today I just put my ball in a position where I couldn't play and made 6. It's important every week -- on this golf course it's important, plus you need to make sure that you miss the ball in the right place.  
  
  Q. Tiger is going to have just his sixth MC in about 250 tournaments or whatever. Can you put that success rate into perspective?  
 PAUL GOYDOS: It's pretty impressive. I think he had 120 or 130 in a row out here. That's probably -- I know it's sacrilegious to say, but it would be just like DiMaggio is what I would say.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT