AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 14, 2010
Paul Goydos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. There was one tough hole.   
 PAUL GOYDOS: Which one might that have been?  
  
  Q. That was No. 14.   
 PAUL GOYDOS: My second nine this year on a Sunday. How about that? The other one was on a par-3. So I'm a 17 hole player, I guess, on Sundays.   
  
  Q. You played well up to that point, what --  
PAUL GOYDOS: No, we had hung in there. We were struggling. The golf course is playing a little harder. Playing the ball down made a big difference on a mud ball. Had to be less aggressive.   
 But was hanging in there pretty good, yeah.  
  
  Q. You tried to hit a tough shot at --  
 PAUL GOYDOS: No, my third shot I was just trying to -- actually, we (indiscernible) thought to hit it off the green. You know, we were trying to hit the ball long, just long and right, which I thought it would have been pretty good. 7-iron for 139 and didn't fly far enough. I guess I needed a 6-iron there.   
 So we were actually -- I might go -- I think if I can make 5 there every time for the rest of my life I would obviously.   
 I was trying to actually hit enough club to make sure we got it kind of back on into the green. Even that little chipping area behind the green wouldn't have been horrid. The ball just didn't go as far as we had planned.  
  
  Q. Then you --  
PAUL GOYDOS: Then I tried to play safe on the next one, and I didn't catch it very sold and I kind of chunk-holed it, when it would've been much better the skinny-push it.   
 Then I went down the hill and stayed down the hill and chipped it on the green and then I hit a bad putt and another bad putt. You guys need anymore than that?   
  
  Q. (Question regarding playing hard and hanging in there with Dustin Johnson.)  
 PAUL GOYDOS: That's all it was today. We played much harder, you know. It's Sunday. Again, not having your ball in hand is a big difference. You know, the weather was good, but it was still a little bit breezy. Just a tough day.   
 You know, we were doing a pretty good job of hanging in there, and he hung in there a lot better than I did the last few holes.  
  
  Q. What were some of the distances when he really unleashed a drive?  
 PAUL GOYDOS: He hit some good -- yeah, he hit a great one. Made eagle on 6. Hit a great tee shot. I don't know what he hit in there, 6-iron or something like that.   
 I mean, the tee shot he hit on 18 (indiscernible) the whole world. I mean, that's never straight and narrow where he's hitting the ball considering he's got to make 4 to win the golf tournament. Really, at that point, he might need to make 4 to tie. J.B. hadn't finished yet.   
 To hit tee shot was pretty impressive. Yeah, he hits it on different lines than I do. But, you know, Hey, that's his skill and he takes advantage of it. He did a good job today. He did what he needed to do to win, you know.   
 Who knows what would happen if someone shot 65 and posted a number how we would -- how things would've worked out.  
  
  Q. That would've been a tough number to shoot today.   
 PAUL GOYDOS: It would've been. Played hard. Played more like Pebble Beach.   
  
  Q. What was the feeling walk off 14? Dumb question.   
 PAUL GOYDOS: You know, you just -- it wasn't like I didn't try in all nine shots. The ninth one I really wasn't all that excited about. You know, just everything I did on that hole didn't work out. You know, the tee shot with a big clump of mud on the ball which caused the 3-wood to go nowhere on the second shot.   
 I drove it farther today than yesterday, and I hit rescue 20 yards farther on my second shot. The ball with the mud is going nowhere.   
 Then I tried to play what I thought was conservatively to hit it long, and it didn't work out. Then I tried to hit what I thought was a play a little more to the right. If I could've got my ball in between the hole and Dustin's ball to the right, that you would have been pretty good.   
 I kind of pulled it, which was a disaster. Then I hit -- chunked the chip, and then I almost chipped it back to where I started. It was almost -- you know, almost -- that's just one ever those things, boys.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 PAUL GOYDOS: Yeah, and then the 18 handicap shows off and chips it in there about five feet.   
  
  Q. When did you find out you were gonna be playing the ball down today?  
 PAUL GOYDOS: On the first tee. I assumed it.   
  
  Q. Were you surprised?  
 PAUL GOYDOS: No.  
  
  Q. Do you think it was the right decision in retrospect?  
 PAUL GOYDOS: Yeah, who knows. It's not my decision to make. It's easy for me to say one way or the other. The reality is they have to take all things into account. I think asking players how we think the course should be set up is kind of dangerous.   
  
  Q. I know it's disappointing, but still a pretty good tournament for you.   
 PAUL GOYDOS: There was 70 nice holes. In Texas it was 71 and 72 that sucked. This week, it was -- I got to do the math. What's that, 67 and 68 -- 68 and 69 sucked this week.   
 So, you know, at some point in time we need to play 72 holes.  
  
  Q. Did watching what Bryce went through right before you on 14 change your approach or mindset?  
 PAUL GOYDOS: Absolutely. That's why I tried to hit -- if you hit it over the green, if make 5, you know, you give yourself a putt for 5.   
 I mean, the way they've got it set up, 5 was a good score. That's what Dustin made. That was my mindset. Just hit the ball long and right and get it down there. If you have a 5- or 6-footer, that really wasn't that bad. That's a hole that was playing difficultly, and I kind of raised the stroke out quite considerable all by myself.   
 (Recording ended.)  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT