THE BARCLAYS
August 28, 2009
Paul Goydos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PAUL GOYDOS: A good day, didn't finish the way I wanted but I started better than I expected. The golf course is obviously very difficult this morning for those poor guys who had to play early. But the first few holes played tough, but the weather kind of laid down for us. 
 Again, if you told me even par, with the forecast before we started, I would have stayed in bed. Pretty simple. 

 Q. You played the course well with the bad weather. What's your secret at this point? 
 PAUL GOYDOS: Well, obviously I putted very well for two days. I've had good speed on the greens. Things have gone my way for two days. Hopefully it will go my way for four days.
 It's funny how the putter is the great equalizer in this game. 

 Q. Did you feel any extra pressure because your conditions were better to post a number?
 PAUL GOYDOS: Early on it was a little tough. I think early on everybody in the afternoon struggled, too, with the rain and the wind. But I don't think that's the way to go. Just need to go and play the shot at hand, if we get the better end of it, I think even par in the afternoon probably is equal to 2- or 3-over par. In the morning. 
 But I took advantage of it the best I could. I don't think you want to be thinking ahead, 'This is my advantage.' This golf course, you really have to take what's in front of you. It can be very diabolical with the pins or they can be very kind with the pins and you need to kind of know which one to be aggressive with and which one to, oohh, maybe not. 

 Q. After two complete rounds, your thoughts on the course?
 PAUL GOYDOS: They had a hurricane come through last week and dump an inch or two rain on it, and the golf course, it's holding up pretty well. The golf course, it's going to be a good challenge this weekend. We just need to make sure the weather holds. 

 Q. New course, unfamiliarity to it, bad weather conditions, does that force to you play more conservatively than you would want to?
 PAUL GOYDOS: I think the fact that we have had the softer conditions has tempered the fact that it's new. I think the golf course, if we had 85-degree weather for the last week and the golf course was hard as a rock and not having as much maybe knowledge as the other courses we played, you'd have to be more conservative, but as soft as it is right now, you pretty much can be reasonably aggressive. You don't have to worry tons about where the ball is going to carom off to. There are so many undulations, and humps and bumps, but it's really been tempered with the softer conditions. 

 Q. This weekend? 
 PAUL GOYDOS: Yeah, just going to go out and like I said, hopefully the tournament will get some good weather. I think this golf course is going to be a fantastic show on television with New York City as the background and the Statue of Liberty. Hopefully they will be watching me, too. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT