VALERO TEXAS OPEN
May 16, 2009
Paul Goydos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You had a couple of bogeys. How were you able to still have a good score? 
 PAUL GOYDOS: By making a couple birdies.

 Q. So even that birdie on 7, obviously you could have been worse. That ball could have been out of bounds. 
 PAUL GOYDOS: Yeah. We're out there to have fun. I got a good rack. I had a good up-and-down. 

 Q. Very good. So what's your approach going to be going into Sunday? How are you going to play it?
 PAUL GOYDOS: 24 holes on this course, I think the first thing I think about is physical fitness. 
 I actually think the north wind the golf course is going to be much harder. Zach Johnson is going to have a totally different opinion of that obviously shooting 60. But I'm fine and I'm happy with the way I played. 
 I got six more holes to play. I could birdie all six and it's a great round.

 Q. Very good. Thanks. What do you do to post that kind of number?
 PAUL GOYDOS: You're out there and it's getting dark and you're not paying that much attention. I didn't realize he shot 60 until we were driving back to the clubhouse. 
 That's a pretty impressive round in my opinion. I think the golf course is at least a couple of shots more difficult today than it was the previous two days. 

 Q. He was saying that it was one of those things that it was getting kind of dark and he didn't want to leave. I don't know how close you've been in those positions before, but he said I didn't want to leave that putt short, and he left it three feet short. 
 PAUL GOYDOS: Did he have a putt for 59? And he left it short? Yeah. I don't know when he finished. We were on a par-4. I made birdie for about five feet and it was dark. I don't know. It was just the fact that there was some empathy today. You know, 60 in this weather, I think if you got 60 today sitting around all day, hitting a 60 is pretty impressive. 

 Q. He's got a three-stroke lead, but you guys still have the 14 ahead of you.
 PAUL GOYDOS: We still got six holes to play. I'm not going to worry about where I stand. Golf arbitrarily decided to break after 36 or 18 or 56 holes and I was leading and now we've broken after 48 holes and I'm three back. You just gotta keep playing the best you can. And maybe the next 24 holes I'll play well.

 Q. That north wind changes the whole thing. 
 PAUL GOYDOS: I think it'll be better tomorrow. You still gotta drive your ball straight, and everyone is going to have to play the north wind, not just me. So you just keep playing. It's fun. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT