MAYAKOBA GOLF CLASSIC AT RIVIERA MAYA - CANCUN
February 25, 2009
Paul Goydos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  NELSON SILVERIO: Give us some comments on what you saw out there.   
 PAUL GOYDOS: I think the golf course is wonderful. I think the resort is wonderful. They've done a great job here. I think it's one of five or ten best courses we have on tour.  
  
  Q. Can you just talk about the buzz that's been building around the TOUR the last couple years? Around the tour, what the guys who have been here came back and told those of you who haven't been.   
 PAUL GOYDOS: Yeah, this is my first time. It's been 100% positive. The golf course is good. The people are wonderful. The resort is as good as you're going to get on TOUR. The tournament staff and the people who run the event do as well as -- considering only in two years it's become one of the best-run events on the PGA TOUR, this is what I players are saying. An absolute first-class event.  
  
  Q. Obviously guys would rather be in the desert, but this isn't a bad consolation prize.   
 PAUL GOYDOS: Yeah, I mean, I know what you're saying. Maybe the TOUR doesn't want to hear that. But here I would make the argument that here I have to beat 131 guys, and over there you got to beat six.   
 I think this is going to be a great event for a long time. I think at some point in time, the natural evolution, this is going to be a great event and people are going to be saying it's nice to be here opposed to Tucson.   
  
  Q. Y'all play a lot of great courses and stay at gorgeous resorts. I guess you never get immune to it. But within the high standard golfers have, is this still up there?  
 PAUL GOYDOS: Absolutely. The golf course is tremendous. I think Norman, he's done a great job with the golf course. Designing a golf course isn't that easy, in the sense that he's design a golf course that I think looks deceivingly -- it's deceiving. It's not a golf course where you're going see guys -- it's a golf course you're going to walk away from saying, God, why didn't I shoot three or four shots better? Why did I not shoot -- you shoot 70 and you felt like you should've shot 66. You shoot -- because he's done a great job.   
 Plus, I played in the Pro-Am today. If you're a resort guest you can come in and just enjoy yourself. It's not beating your brains out. He allows you to you run the balls on the greens and do some different things. You don't necessarily have to drive it on straight, perfect line every time.   
 I think he melded resort golf and TOUR golf well as I've seen on TOUR.   
  
  Q. Do you feel that there will be more PGA events taking place in Mexico?   
 PAUL GOYDOS: I don't know. I think the natural progression would say yes. I think it's going to depend on how this event -- seems like, to me, from what I've heard, the people that run this event and the country of Mexico has embraced this event tremendously.   
 Hopefully through this event, you know, we had the disaster with, is it Wilma that came through here? Hopefully the PGA Tour can do its part to explain to the United States, and in a sense the rest of the world, that Cancun is still a great place to come to.   
 We've rebuilt and we're back. It's a great spot. From there, maybe if other places in Mexico -- maybe you could have two events in a row in this country or something like that. There's probably some hope. But I don't know if that's even in discussion.   
 If nothing else, you got great weather. If nothing else, I could play down here every week. I don't have an answer for that question, to be honest with you.   
  
  Q. We would like to know how you feel for your first time, if you can say that?  
 PAUL GOYDOS: Absolutely. Nothing like the first time here. It's wonderful. But you know what? I think the second, third, and tenth times are going to be that much better.  
  
  Q. Are you following the PGA tour?  
 PAUL GOYDOS: Yes, going to the West Palm Beach to play in the Honda Classic. Again, I can't imagine I'm going to play an event that's more enjoyable than this event. You guys do a great job. You should be very proud of yourselves.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT