BUICK INVITATIONAL
February 6, 2009
Paul Goydos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Have you seen the golf course change a little bit from the practice rounds to now, especially the North Course?
 PAUL GOYDOS: It's gotten softer obviously. They had an inch of rain last night, I guess. So yeah, you went from bouncing the ball to the pin to flying it past the pin and trying to control your spin a little bit. It's playing longer, too. It's fine, the greens are good, and we're making putts. 

 Q. It's always nice to make 15-footers. 
 PAUL GOYDOS: We've seen some pretty good scores.

 Q. Something that always works, you run in those 15-footers and things get really red really quick. It was good to see today that you were rolling them in from all over. Did you pretty much give yourself some good opportunities during the course of the day?
 PAUL GOYDOS: Yeah, I took advantage of the holes on the North Course that you need to take advantage of, and I parred the holes where you need to make pars. I made a good little six-footer on 18 to save par to keep the round going, then birdied the next four. If you miss that then your mind wanders a little bit and you miss the next four. I did a lot of good things to keep it going and then obviously took advantage of the opportunities that I had.

 Q. Two rounds down and the South Course for the weekend. What do you expect and what do you look for?
 PAUL GOYDOS: Well, I expect to be able to hit it pretty good. It's going to play long, and I think the weather is going to be a little bit dodgy. I'll just try to go out and play. 

 Q. Talk a little bit about your round today. You pretty much tore up the North Course. 
 PAUL GOYDOS: Well, I had a good day. Seven birdies on any golf course is a good day. Again, I was able to make a few putts early to kind of keep the round going and take advantage of the holes where it was maybe a little bit easier, 1, 2, 3, 4, where you hit the ball with short irons into the soft greens. I think we got a little lucky with the weather. The rain softened the golf course up. It looked like maybe it was going to be better to be on the South Course today, and it didn't turn out that way.

 Q. You're in good striking distance for Villegas tomorrow. What do you have to do to maybe make a run at him?
 PAUL GOYDOS: I'm not overly excited about playing long ball with Camilo on the South Course the next two days. There's really not much advantage for me there. But I'm just happy to be playing well and happy to be playing on the weekend. It's my first time this year. 

 Q. There's a lot of guys from southern California on the leaderboard right now, Charley, Jason Gore and yourself. Does there have to be an advantage playing on these greens?
 PAUL GOYDOS: Playing on poa annua greens, yeah. You have to have a level of patience with poa annua. Obviously it's easier to stay patient when a few of them go in rather than the ones that don't go in. But yeah, I would definitely think that. Phil has won here every year that Tiger hasn't won here. I'm not a bit surprised that they do well here. 

 Q. 18 looked like it was a good putt. 
 PAUL GOYDOS: That one didn't go in. I had a few other ones that probably weren't hit as good as that one that did go in. Again, that's part of the deal playing here, and after it's rained it's really pretty hard to keep any greens in great shape with the weather they've had here in these last 24 hours. But I hit a good putt and it didn't go in, but I hit other putts that did go in, and that's part of the deal with poa annua.

 Q. You made the turn at 1-under, made pars on the par-5s, no sign of what was going to come?
 PAUL GOYDOS: I think on No. 1 I had it at the top of the hill and I actually hit a putt that went in, and if it doesn't go in it might have gone ten feet by. So if it were a flat spot it might have only gone two feet by. If that doesn't go in, I'd be packing my car. So good thing happen, and that kind of snowballed. Once you make one it makes it a little easier to make the next one and a little easier to make the next one and a little easier to make the next one, and that's just kind of what happened.

 Q. As difficult as things have been for you lately, is it kind of an escape to get out on the golf course and get away from everything?
 PAUL GOYDOS: I play golf. I enjoy playing golf. It's what I do. I do it when I'm home, I do it when I'm out on TOUR, I do it at Christmas if I can. It's what I do. 

 Q. This is your first PGA TOUR event with John, John and Pete in the same spot. Have you talked to them a lot? Do you talk to them after rounds?
 PAUL GOYDOS: Yeah, Jaime is their teacher. I've known Jaime for 30 years. They're better than me. I mean, I need to talk to them more than anything else. They have a bright, bright future ahead of them, and I think when they're 17-year veterans, they won't be talking about me too much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT