VALERO TEXAS OPEN
October 10, 2008
Paul Goydos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   CHRIS REIMER: We welcome Paul to the Media Center. 66, 66; is that right?
 PAUL GOYDOS: Absolutely.
 CHRIS REIMER: Consistent golf the last couple of days. Talk about how you played. 
 PAUL GOYDOS: I shot 1-over the first nine holes on the first days, struggling. Started hitting it little better the last 27 holes. I think I only missed two, three greens for a round and a half. Pretty good for me.
 Shot -- shooting 30 on my incoming 9 yesterday and then shooting 31 going out today is a nice little middle to jump-start to the tournament.
 Today I really played good tee to green. Drove the ball in the fairway, for the most part. Hit a lot of greens and had a lot of good looks at birdies and made a few putts.
 CHRIS REIMER: Last couple times you've been here, Top-10 finishes.
 PAUL GOYDOS: I do like it here. This is a fun little golf course we play. It's a golf course that doesn't necessarily favor anybody. It's not necessarily super-long. 
 Kind of have to keep it in play. It's firm, which is nice, and you kind of have to mind your Ps and Qs a little bit, which I like.

 Q. Couple 61s on the weekend might be good.
 PAUL GOYDOS: Go out and play and I'm surprised 8-under is where it is. We didn't have a whole lot of wind today. The greens are holding reasonably well. 
 We'll see at the end of the day where 8-under is. My feeling is it's not going to be -- bunch of guys who shot 5-under are playing right now. Probably have decent chance of maybe getting to 10, 11, 12.

 Q. Wind picking up a little bit?
 PAUL GOYDOS: I didn't notice that too much, not really. Yesterday afternoon it picked up a little bit of wind. If it blows ten miles an hour -- little bit of wind, it actually gives you something to play off of, in a sense, something to use. 
 It blows 20, that's a different question. But I think -- I think the difference between still and blowing ten is almost negligible.

 Q. You know more than most people coming in here you've got to go low to have a chance at this tournament. It's one of those tournaments 20-under is what you kind aim for. 
 Does that change the game plans at all, you find yourself going at flags a little harder?
 PAUL GOYDOS: If you're driving the ball in play, you get a lot of short irons. If I got a sand wedge like at the U.S. Open, it will fly, most likely. Just a function of making sure you hit the ball in play. 
 Everyone of these holes has got problems if you don't drive the ball in the fairway. If you do, you can be pretty aggressive. I don't think it's necessary you do a different game plan for this golf course than any other golf course. 
 You have the shot in front of you and if you've executed your tee shot well you probably, every hole on this golf course you have a chance to get birdie. If you haven't executed your tee shot well then you try to find a way to make a par. 
 I think that's what I like about playing here, the rewards, keep the ball in front of you, play and kind of -- it's one of those few courses where I think you'll you're better off 260 yards in the fairway than 300 yards in the rough. The guys who you see shooting the low scores here are guys though who drive the ball in play.

 Q. Since the Colonial, it's been a little --
PAUL GOYDOS: Dark period. I've been in a dark period for a few months.

 Q. What's been going on?
 PAUL GOYDOS: I don't think that's anything different in my whole career, go through every year. I have months and times that I struggle. It's just a function of one, not playing well and, two, everybody else is a lot better than everybody thinks.
 This Tour, if you're not playing really well, it just -- they just stomp you down to the ground, basically. I was right on the edge of playing halfway decent at the PGA. British Open was my first British Open and just -- I didn't play well. You can't prepare for the conditions. I just didn't play well there, either.
 I haven't play tons since Colonial, either. But I don't think it's just a function of that's the way the game ebbs and flows with me. It's a lot more ebbing the last few years than flowing but my tide have been higher.

 Q. You know, lot of guys come out of some place like Birkdale where the winds were brutal and say they fight their swings for awhile because of adjusting.
 PAUL GOYDOS: I fight my swing everyday. Birkdale -- I thought Birkdale -- definitely my Top-5 golf courses I ever played. That may be a little low. 
 I thought it was a fantastic event. The weather would have been good we probably would have the good leaderboard. It's such a great golf course.
 I don't think -- I showed up at the PGA and kind of got through the PGA halfway decent. Had moments at Ridgewood where I played decent and fell off the planet there. 
 I think part of it, too, is some of these events, let's put them on bermuda grass and see who wins. We're playing Northeast golf courses where it is a little more 7400-yard golf courses where length is a issue. I would love to see Valero get a chance to be a playoff event or Colonial, or even in Florida.
 So, part of it might be the golf courses don't necessarily suit my eye very well.

 Q. Did you specifically take any time off with the kids?
 PAUL GOYDOS: My kids start school. Deutsche Bank was my last event. The next day my kids started school. I mean that's part of the deal. 
 My oldest, this is her first year in college, kind of going through that issue and my youngest is -- she's active and playing soccer and doing her thing and it's fun to be home for five weeks. 
 It's not your goal. You would like to play in the Tour Championship, and the Ryder Cup to be perfectly honest with you, but it is what it is. I played a little bit and was at home and got a chance to relax and go out and play this week and next week and Scottsdale and we'll see what happens.

 Q. Is Long Beach still like everybody comes up to you?
 PAUL GOYDOS: Lot more recognize it. It's not the same level it was obviously right afterwards but I still have four, five people on this trip in the airport come up and say something, which I never got before. 
 So it's still -- it's still in some people's mind reasonably fresh. Kind of cool thing.

 Q. How about baseball?
 PAUL GOYDOS: NCAA changes to basketball. We get ready for basketball. We start practice in a couple days. What's the date? Today --
Q. Media day.
 PAUL GOYDOS: We're coming up on basketball season. We're excited about that. Got my two season tickets. Go to two games.
 CHRIS REIMER: Anything else, guys? Alright. Paul. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT