THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2008
Paul Goydos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Have you been working on your putting, or are you just seeing the line better today?   
 PAUL GOYDOS: Not just today, all week. I've been working with my putter for 30 years. That's what we do for a living.   
 This has been a good week. Things have dropped, for three rounds anyways. I like the Bermudagrass. I have seen the lines. My caddie has done an outstanding job; we've agreed just about every time I've asked him to come in and look. It's been one of those weeks.  
  
  Q. Was the golf course harder today, even though the conditions were a little more benign?  
 PAUL GOYDOS: Yeah, I think the pins were a little tougher maybe. It's a hard golf course. In a dome, it's going to be a hard golf course. This golf course, again, tests you in all facets of your game. I passed for three days; hopefully I can pass for a fourth.  
  
  Q. Are you going out each day with just kind of a serene attitude, just see what happens?  
 PAUL GOYDOS: I actually think I'm a very nervous person.  
  
  Q. You don't appear to be, I can say that.   
 PAUL GOYDOS: Appearance is one thing. I don't shake outside, very much anyway, but inside, yeah. But I think that's good. What's going to be bothersome is if I step up on the first tee tomorrow not nervous; then I've got something to worry about.  
  
  Q. So you feel like you're nervous but a good aggressive kind of nervous?  
 PAUL GOYDOS: I'm nervous because this is what I do for a living, and we're on a big stage. Again, I'm trying to accomplish and attain goals. Again, it I wasn't nervous -- I don't mean nervous -- it's not a positive nervous, it's just nervous. I can't believe Tiger is not nervous. He doesn't look like it. But again, I think it's a positive because that means you're into it and you're in good shape and you're sleeping in and all that stuff.  
  
  Q. Will you try to do the same thing tomorrow or change anything tomorrow, have a number in mind?  
 PAUL GOYDOS: No. This golf course do not lend itself to that. Just go out and play and hit each shot. In a sense I've got a game plan for this golf course, and we'll just try to execute that game plan and then worry about maybe altering that down the stretch if I need to.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT