U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 30, 2017
Paul Goydos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tell us how your round went today.
PAUL GOYDOS: Today was nothing like yesterday.  It was a pure survival round.  I'd argue I kind of got tired, made some tired swings down the stretch.  I made a couple of -- I got it to -- I made a couple of birdies on, I want to say, 6 and 7 and then made a very poor swing on 8.  It took some energy out of me.  I kind of fought it.  To shoot 1 under on the back nine was, I think, two more miracles of sainthood (indiscernible).
So I'm right there.  So, I mean, Shane Bacon saw it all, and he's probably shaking his head right now.
Considering I struggled coming in, I held it together pretty well.  Get a good night's sleep and start again tomorrow.
Q. How much of an impact is it on a guy's golf game -- we're talking about yours right now -- when you get tired?  Is it poor decisions, the ability to not make a good swing?
PAUL GOYDOS: It's kind of all of it.  I think almost all -- for me, anyway, most bad swings come from the lack of surety.  Like on 8, I thought I had to hit the 9 pretty solid to get it over the ridge.  And then I probably tried to swing a little too hard.
I was fine, and I think that just kind of -- I hit a bad shot, and then I hit an even worse chip.  I think that just kind of -- up to that point, you feel -- I almost had a little bit of infallibility.  I played pretty good, had gotten away with a bad shot or two, made great pars.  I was kind of cruising.  I lost my little sense of infallibility there.
Again, to shoot under par on the back nine under those conditions is fine.  It's not playing easy.  It's playing harder.  The greens are much firmer.  These holes, you have to play 20 feet of bounce, 30 feet of bounce, at least I do, coming in.
The golf course was much more difficult, I thought, today too.  I don't know if the scores are showing that, but it definitely got tougher in the afternoon.
Q. If we get some rain --
PAUL GOYDOS: We don't need rain.  That would obviously soften it.
This golf course's defense is not necessarily going to be firmness, as much as it's going to be the pins are just tough, they're hard.  You have a lot of putts with a lot of break.  It's not good enough to hit a good shot, you got to hit a good shot in the right place, or you get real, real defensive.
I drove it in the rough -- the rough -- I don't care how high the rough is.  The rough is no good.  There's no place -- you can't play -- because there's just no way to get the ball -- at least for me, there wasn't any way to get the ball back into place where a par was going to be a reasonable score.
Having said that, I made two great pars driving in the rough, but they were just -- you know, those were both, you know, 1 out of 5 maybe up and downs.  I did it twice.  I rolled snake eyes twice in a row.  It doesn't happen very often.
Q. That was two miracles then.
PAUL GOYDOS: Yeah, I had one on 13, and I had one on 17, a great up and down.  So, again, the rough is no good, at least it isn't from my point of view.  So it just makes it difficult.
And they've got 156 guys to get around today.  They only have to get 65 guys around tomorrow, so they can probably be more aggressive with the hole locations too.
Q. I was talking with Scott Verplank about that, just in terms of did they take it easy on you because of 156?  He said not really.
PAUL GOYDOS: I thought they used a couple of pin settings I didn't think they'd even use because there's so much slope around that area.  But you're only hitting -- both of those holes, you're only hitting wedges.  So I think you can get away with it.
Again, you just can't get out of position, even on the greens.  The nature of this golf course is -- again, I think Langer is playing well.  I'm not real surprised.  I think this is a pretty good test of your patience -- Kirk Triplett, there's a perfect example of a guy who really doesn't try to do -- he's a cerebral, good player, doesn't make a lot of mistakes.  He's obviously playing well, and that's a good combination for this golf course.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT