VALERO TEXAS OPEN
September 22, 2006
Paul Goydos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Okay.  Paul, we've got Natalie over here on the right from the Express News and Tim Price is the AP writer.  Andy is doing radio in the back.
PAUL GOYDOS:  Can you hear me now?
PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Very nice 7 under 63 today.  One of your career bests on the PGA Tour.  You go out in 30 this morning and come back in 33 for 63.

Just a couple general thoughts about the round.
PAUL GOYDOS:  Well, obviously compared to yesterday it was cooler and less windy.  The golf course was just immaculate.

People here in San Antonio and LaCantera    that's one of the things about the scoring, you work so hard to put a golf course in great condition, it makes it, in a sense, easier, but it was immaculate.

I played very well.  I drove it well, hit my irons well, putted well.  I didn't really    I wish I could duplicate it for the rest of my life.

Got off to a good start on the first hole.  I looked at the stats, the first hole, the par 5 was the second or third hardest hole of the day yesterday.  That's pretty frightening in itself.

I hit three pretty good shots.  Had about a 20 footer and made that.  Good start to today.  I kind of finished off what I did yesterday.  I was 3 under my last 9 holes yesterday and to kind of keep that momentum going.

On 3 I hit a 5 iron, had about a 25 footer.  Made that.  When you start making putts early in your round, one, it obviously gives you confidence, gives you    you can see things are going well, you know, hit it really good.  No question where I was going with that.

4 was a par.  5, hit a good driver and 6 iron about three feet.  Managed to massage that one in.

6, I hit a 7 iron left, about 35, 40 footer made that.  Now you know things are going well.  Not only am I hitting it close on tough, tough holes, No. 5 is a reasonably difficult par 4, now I'm hitting mediocre iron shots and making that.  These are positive vibes going on out there.

7, I hit my 3 iron and my sand wedge in there about six feet, made that putt to get to 5 under for the day and thinking, "Okay, things are going well."

As the round goes, you can tell after that the law of averages caught up with me.

Played solidly.  8, I had a reasonable look.  9, I made a solid par.  10, obviously the hardest hole on the golf course.  Made a solid par.

11, got aggressive off the tee and drove it in the rough.  You drive it in the rough this week par is a good score, period.  The greens are firm, hard to stop the ball.  12 is playing back into the wind.  Another solid par there.

13, you know, with the wind kind of blowing it doesn't look like much of a hole but today with the wind blowing 10, 15 up in the tee, par is not a bad score there.

Par 5 14, I hit a good tee shot and really good three wood just in the front middle of the green.  Had about a 45 footer for eagle.  Managed to birdie there.  15, another tough hole.

16, hit a fairway wood, ten feet, made that.  Maybe 8 feet.  Again, the greens were good.  If you got it on line, saw your line, you're going to make a lot of putts out there.

17, playing tough, too.  That hole, I hit a really good shot there, made par.  18 I had about a 25 footer.  I actually knocked it about five feet by and made it coming back.

Kind of keeps the momentum going.  All in all, you know, not going to complain too much the rest of the day.
PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Paul, can you sort of summarize your year?
PAUL GOYDOS:   This is the first time I've made back to back cuts since the Hawaiian Open and Bob Hope.  I don't fell like I've been necessarily horrible in all aspects of the game, just two, three everyday.

I drive it good, hit poor irons.  I can't drive it in the fairway.  You hit good irons, you can't drive it.

You have times like that.  I'm hoping it more again the law of averages    no one has ever mistaken me for Tiger Woods so just one of those years where nothing    so far, nothing has really gone well.

One of the things I have learned though if you don't evaluate your year until your year is over, I can easier win this week and next year.  It's the best year of my career.  Keep doing your work, keep trying to do the best you can.  I think I kept my head up pretty good.
Q.  You talked a lot about the law of averages.
PAUL GOYDOS:  Mythical.
Q.  As the year comes to a close, just kind of let the law of average takeover.  Have you really
PAUL GOYDOS:  Got to keep doing your work.  I don't think failure in my eyes is not making the top 125 or not winning this week or not whatever.  Failure is not being prepared to do the best that you can.

I've been given an opportunity to play the PGA Tour since 1993 and to me you are who you are.  Playing the best you can, taking the most    taking advantage of that opportunity.

Taking advantage means I'm 180th on the money list or whatever that is.  I'm not there due to lack of effort, necessarily or lack of preparedness.  I'm there due to lack of quality golf shots.  Those are things you keep working to try to get better at.

Sometimes we caught up in being what failure is.  This year maybe making finishing 120th might be the greatest year I get considering what I had all year.
Q.  The physical stuff that you battled the last couple years with your hip and sinuses, are you a hundred percent now physically or
PAUL GOYDOS:  I don't know if I've ever been a hundred percent.  Yeah, I'm fine.  My hip bothers me a little bit.  I do some stretching and strengthening in that area.

Sinuses I think are going to be a constant deal.  Playing outside and different    I think the biggest issue with that is changing climates.  The last week was rainy and cold.  This week it's going to be 1000,000.

So, I think that's tough on that part of it, my anatomy.  Most part, I'm physically fine.
Q.  This round, I think is your best, easily your best score of the year.
PAUL GOYDOS:  Actually shot 63 at the Hope.  9 under at the Hope.  Yeah.  I'm sorry.
Q.  Didn't sound like as you kind of went through your scorecard, maybe the par on 18 is the only time you're really tested?
PAUL GOYDOS:  I made putts today.  I look back at events where I've had some success, what few there are, last week I had a reasonable finish.

I putted pretty well, especially on Sunday.  Houston Open I putted as well as I played all year.  To me generally putting    you make a few putts early like I did today, it's all good stuff.  You miss a few putts early, and it's a battle.

Actually yesterday, the first nine holes I made three birdies.  10, I missed a 5 footer.  12, I missed a 5 foot footer.  18, I missed a two footer.  You tell me I'm going to shoot 9 under for this tournament on the tee, I'd say you're nuts.

I chipped in on No. 3 yesterday from the bermuda and that really kind of was what kind of settled things down, something good happened.  See if we can build off that.  I made a good putt.  All of a sudden you've got some birdie holes or something.

The way it played yesterday afternoon, this golf course has got a little more teeth.  I can't believe Tommy Armour shot 254 here.  The golf course, they've got more rough.  The golf course is in great shape.
Q.  When you were at No. 3 yesterday how far off the green were you?
PAUL GOYDOS:  One of those chip shots that    only 20 feet from the hole, max.  You're shooting down the bermuda.  From California we don't really see this grass.  We see it this week, we see in it Hawaii a little bit, maybe at Disney and Tampa, and that's it.

It's a bit of a guess.  I definitely argued that my club never actually made contact with the ball, the grass and just kind of flubs out of there and luckily down and rolled right in.

And it's funny, you look back at things, since then I've been and played 18, counting that whole I played 25 holes and made ten birdies.  That kind of got things going, no question.
Q.  Assuming that sinus surgery was the reconstructive thing?
PAUL GOYDOS:  My septum got deviated.  I broke my nose maybe five, six years ago, the back of my daughter's head in the wave pool.

I broke my nose and my septum kind of made it worse.  What it does, it blocks your sinus up.  You don't notice it.  You can talk about this stuff.

You start losing some energy.  You don't know.  You don't go from a hundred percent to 70.  You go to hundred, to 99, 98, 97.  Pretty soon you can't get out of bed.  It relates back to what happened four, five years ago.

That's kind of what happened.  Went in, cleaned it out, straightened it.
Q.  Your hip, what did that stem from?
PAUL GOYDOS:  We're assuming I had a torn muscle.  From what I can tell, nobody has been super successful with that surgery.  Mine, it seems the more I stretch the better I get.  I struggle when I sit in an airplane for five hours and I get back to the room it hurts.

Right now, after walking, stretching and exercising, it's the opposite.  That seems to help it.  To me, I'd much rather go in and spend 30 minutes or 40 minutes in the gym everyday than go to the doctor.
Q.  So a course like this, you're walking up and down?
PAUL GOYDOS:  No issue.  Again, where I'll have a problem if I don't do anything in the off season, the first event of the year all of a sudden I continue to stretch and get the exercise.  It's really gotten better I think in the last three, four years, just doing that.
PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Paul, thanks a lot.  Continued good luck.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT