GREATER HARTFORD OPEN
July 25, 2003
Paul Goydos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  We have Paul Goydos after a 5-under 65 today.  Paul got off on the front 9 with a 5-under 30 right there.  Back nine  --

PAUL GOYDOS:  The back nine, it's confusing.

TODD BUDNICK:  A great way to start a day and get a round going.

PAUL GOYDOS:  Yes, I did, good things were happening.  I had good rhythm, made three birdies around the box on 11, 12 and 13.  Good things were happening, making putts.  When I did hit a marginal shot, it went in a good place, but good rhythm going and everything.  On the back nine, the rhythm wasn't as good.  If the rhythm was good I would have shot 59 or something, and people don't often shoot 59 or something, but a good solid day.

TODD BUDNICK:  Jay Haas's son almost shot a 59 yesterday.

PAUL GOYDOS:  He has good genes.

TODD BUDNICK:  Yesterday's afternoon group faced a lot of wind.

PAUL GOYDOS:  No, the scores yesterday, I didn't watch too much.  It didn't look like it was as good as us in the morning. They must have gotten the back end of the draw.  It was a one-stroke penalty going out then.  Hopefully those things will even out.  I'm not going to complain about it this week.


Q.  Was there anything in particular that was better today?

PAUL GOYDOS:  I played good yesterday, too, shooting 3-under.  I just think the golf course is probably a little drier, which allows you to be a little more comfortable.  Sometimes when it's really wet like it was yesterday morning you get a little uncomfortable.  You know you are fat with everything.  The course is starting to dry dry out and play maybe a club shorter with every hole.  I think that in the sense was a help.

Being a West Coast guy, yesterday my tee time was 7:09, which was 4:09 on the West Coast, which was tough, too. 

Today I was up and teed off at 12:09, which is 9:09 on the West Coast, and I birdied three holes right out of the box.  In a sense, getting playing at a more normal time for me, might have been a little bit of a help, too, rhythm-wise.

I played pretty good both days.  I hit the same number of greens.  Right now, when I hit it close, when I hit it inside ten feet, I make it.  Both days I don't think I made anything real long.  And what I have done well both days is make par putts.  We look at all of the birdie putts we make, today and yesterday I probably made 2 or 3 putts each day in the 5 to 10 foot range to save par to kind of keep the round going when we can go the other way.  Those things are underrated in what we do. 

I made a couple of 10-footers for par when the round could have maybe slipped in the wrong direction and it didn't, like I said, both days.

TODD BUDNICK:  Along those lines there haven't been many bogey-free rounds so far this week and to go through the rounds with just one.

PAUL GOYDOS:  Yes.  I made 3 bogeys in two days and 2 of them were 3-putts actually.  It wasn't a chip-in but I keep hitting it ten feet and making it.  If you can do those things, it gives you some confidence, and you can maybe be more aggressive. 

If you are not making those pars you tend to hit more toward the fat side of the green and play more carefully when you are getting those balls up and down and making your five and ten footers, you can be a little more aggressive with your irons.


Q.  You have had a middle of the road year, 9 of 16 cuts, and you are still looking for that first top-10.

PAUL GOYDOS:  I have had a middle-of-the-road millennium.  I am in a four- or five-year slump.  I really haven't played very well.  I have played well for rounds.  These two rounds is nice.  Unfortunately we play 4 out here.  Baby steps and hopefully this is a start of good things happening.  Good things have happened this week.  When I hit a marginal shot, and it ends up in a place where I can play.  My 10-foot putt, it looks like it might lip out, it lips in.  Hopefully it could turn around when they are not going so good.

TODD BUDNICK:  Let's go to your birdies, starting on 11.

PAUL GOYDOS:  11, I hit a 9-iron, 150 yards, about six feet, hit a good putt, made a good start.  You want to take advantage of the opportunities and if you give us a 9-iron to a soft green without much wind you should be hitting it close. 

12, I drove it in the right fairway bunker and caught a pretty good lie and hit an 8-iron from 150something yards about a foot and a half behind the hole.  I just had perfect yardage and hit a good shot out of the bunker. 

13, the par-5, I hit a driver and I think I laid up with a 3-iron and had about 75 yards and hit a lob wedge about 5 feet; hit a good putt there to keep the momentum going. 

14, I made a par.  It was one of those holes that I made about a 10-footer for par.  Again, you make three birdies in a row, you hate to give one back, and to make that putt was nice to keep the momentum going. 

15, a little hole, I hit a good drive up the right side, got a good kick.  It's easy to hit up the right side and go in those bunkers, my ball kicked a little left and got down there short of the green, and I pitched it about three feet and made that for birdie, had a good little pitch.

I remember a few years ago Norman holed it to that pin from over there.  That's still a phenomenal shot that he hit.  Mine was easier than his.

16, I made a good par.  17 I made a good par. 

18, I birdied both days.  That means I have 2 birdies in my career on that hole now.  I hit a good drive and a 6-iron about 25 feet and made that.  That's my long birdie putt of the day.  To shoot 30, is a nice round number to shoot for nine holes.  It was a solid putt, dead center, just a good solid end to that nine.  At this point everything is going pretty good. 

1, I made another one of those 10 or 12 footers for par.  After hitting what I thought was a pretty good shot, it kind of got over the green, and over the green wasn't too good, the pin was back left -- and actually two of us hit it over there and very, very lucky to make par there, but again, made a good putt to keep the round going. 

2, 3, struggled through those holes and made pars. 

4, I drove it good and hit a marginal 6-iron about 50 feet short of the hole and 3 whiffed it.  I hit a horrible putt and I couldn't luck that one in.  This thing had no chance from the get-go. 

5, I actually missed about a six-footer for birdie.  At this point if the rhythm is not good, I'm just trying to hit solid shots and see what happens.  

7, I made a good par.  8, I made a good par.

9, I drove it in the fairway bunker and hit a pitching wedge from 120 yards, about 15 feet and made that putt.  A good finish to the round.  The 9 wasn't going well, I was kind of holding ot together with glue and to finish off with a birdie and shoot even par really how I played was pretty good, and hopefully that will be a good momentum to take into tomorrow afternoon. 


Q.  How much do you think it will take to be in the final pairing on Sunday?

PAUL GOYDOS:  You're asking the wrong guy.  I haven't had a top-10 this year.  I go home on Saturdays.  I'm not real worried about that.  I'm just going to go out and play.  I'm playing good. You need to go out and stay aggressive. 

Again, I'm not sure I'm the right guy to ask.  I'm just trying to shoot as low as I can. The weather is supposed to stay good, the golf course is going to continue to dry out.  I don't know what the wind is going to be like tomorrow.  It usually blows a little bit here.  I would imagine the scoring will get better.  It got better today than it was yesterday.  And I would expect that to continue through the weekend.


Q.  Has your middle of the road millennium been mysterious or easy to put your finger on?

PAUL GOYDOS:  It's usually something.  Unfortunately it's been everything, just at different times.  I start hitting my irons good, I don't make any putts.  I drive it really well and hit my irons poorly.  I start hitting my irons good, I can't put it in the fairway. 

If you look at golf, if you get a half a stroke a round each tournament, I probably could say I had a pretty good millennium.  Making bad decisions, I've done it all. Every aspect of the game I screwed it up at one point or another.  I just haven't been able to have everything kind of work well at one time. 

Most of the time in those situations, you are getting in your own way.  You are not letting the game happen, you are trying to force the issue.  Hopefully, I can let the game happen tomorrow, and just shoot the score the best you can do. 

TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Paul.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT