NEC WORLD SERIES OF GOLF
August 23, 1996
Paul Goydos
Billy Mayfair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BILLY MAYFAIR:  Obviously, it is disturbing.  It is tough when you start a round that you know you are not going to finish.  We thought we would get the holes -- only got two holes in.  Makes 8:00 day tomorrow, but if the weather is nice and the greens are good, you know, playing in two-somes, it won't be all that bad because we should play fast; really don't see it bothering all that much.

PAUL GOYDOS:  Yeah, unfortunate for the tournament.  I am not real concerned.  Go out and play golf.  Got to play 72 holes whether it is today, tomorrow or the next day.  So still going home on Monday, I hope, so as long as I can do that I will be all right.


Q.  How much different were the conditions when you finally got out there?

PAUL GOYDOS:  As opposed to what?


Q.  Yesterday.

PAUL GOYDOS:  A lot darker.

BILLY MAYFAIR:  Greens were much, much slower.  A lot slower on the one and two.  They were much slower, so hopefully  by tomorrow morning, when we get out there on 3, they will be mowed, so.....


Q.  Billy, you called this disturbing.  Was it any more disturbing knowing that Norman had made up the 4 shots on you before got it going?  Was that any kick in the --

PAUL GOYDOS:  More expected than disturbing.

BILLY MAYFAIR:  To be honest, I looked at the board but, no, didn't affect me at all.  Someone was going to make a charge if it was going be Greg or Phil, or Steve Jones, whoever, someone was going to make charge.  Conditions were too good out there.  No wind; greens were soft; greens got slow, doesn't surprise me that Greg made some birdies.  I knew -- we both knew someone was.

PAUL GOYDOS:  I really can't concern myself with Greg or Billy, or anybody else.  I have enough problem worrying about me, so -- I am here playing golf, trying to play the course as opposed to -- especially we are talking, you know, Friday, who knows what --

BILLY MAYFAIR:  Yeah.

PAUL GOYDOS:  We are just trying to play golf right now.


Q.  With the conditions as good as they are, how disappointing is not being able to continue?

PAUL GOYDOS:  I don't play well during the dark or during lightning. 


Q.  Let's say it didn't get dark.

PAUL GOYDOS:  Not at all.

BILLY MAYFAIR:  Conditions tomorrow morning will be perfect.  Greens will then be brand new.  Not as many spike marks.  We might have an advantage because we played fewer holes than -- we will play more holes tomorrow on better greens, so it might be an advantage, who knows.  If we wake up tomorrow; the wind is blowing 30 and it is raining, it is a disadvantage, you don't know.  All weather forecasts say it is supposed to be nice tomorrow and rest of the weekend, so you know, you got to look from our standpoint as an advantage because we have got more holes to play tomorrow.


Q.  What did you do during the break, both of you?

PAUL GOYDOS:  Well, I played computer golf.  That Latrobe is a tough layout.

BILLY MAYFAIR:  I took a nap.  They had hotel rooms up there.  I took a nap.


Q.  Does that make you more nervous?  You like having the rest?  How does the delay affect you?

BILLY MAYFAIR:  For me, rest - I think the rest is going to do me more good than anything because I played Monday, Tuesday and Portland, Wednesday Pro Am; then yesterday, hitting a few balls; today only playing two holes, gave my body a good time to rest today, so I think it is a blessing.  I got to look at today as a blessing more than anything. 

PAUL GOYDOS:  Four events in a row, played up in Castle Pines last week which is tough; then going home for 12 hours and flying out here.  The rest is not going to hurt me at all.


Q.  Any nervousness.

BILLY MAYFAIR:  Too early to get nervous.

PAUL GOYDOS:  It is only Friday.


Q.  How about the holes you played; can you give us a quick run down on those, please.

PAUL GOYDOS:  He birdied one.  I birdied too.

BILLY MAYFAIR:  As a team we are 2-under.  First hole 7-iron, 160 yards; four feet; made that for birdie.  Then I hit driver, 3-wood on the front edge on 2 and green kind of fooled me there.  I' thought it would be faster than it was.  Let it about ten, twelve feet short; missed that one.  So I had a good chance of birdieing 1 and 2 -- but you know, I am playing good.

PAUL GOYDOS:  Yeah, hit driver, 7-iron middle of the green -- 3-wood, 7-iron middle of green first hole; 2-putted. Wasn't a real comfortable yardage.  Then on 2 I caught a good break; drove it left; had to hit the cart path because I was 30 by him.  I knocked it; got a good break; skipped up in the short rough, 3-wood over the back of the green; chipped it down about six, eight feet; made it for birdie.  So good start very happy.  I am glad. 

BILLY MAYFAIR:  They did a great job getting us off the course both times.  Got all of us and the spectators off the course.  They did their job very well.


Q.  How did you do at Latrobe.

PAUL GOYDOS:  Terrible.  Can't play that computer golf.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT