LOUISIANA TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 21, 2017
Dae'Von Washington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Southern Miss - 34, Louisiana Tech - 27 (2-OT)   
 Q.  Just describe what you're feeling tonight at this moment.  
DAE'VON WASHINGTON: First off, we got to give Southern Miss their props, they played a hell of a game, we played a hell of a game, it just didn't turn out the way we wanted.  It hurt, but we're just looking forward to moving forward and staying together, staying strong.   
 Q.  You guys have to be proud of the defense, you guys were on the field for a lot of the game.  Was it kind of tough in the last part of the game to try to keep them out of the end zone?  Was it - kind of tired out there at the end of regulation?  
DAE'VON WASHINGTON: We practiced, we prepare for situations like this, so I won't say it's tough.  They just made a hell of a play like an elite player made a good play the time before that, so things happen, it's football.   
 Q.  What did you see from J'mar?  Did you tell him anything or what did you see from your teammates?  
DAE'VON WASHINGTON: We just all trying to stay together and keep each other lifted and blow air into each other, don't let anyone get down because everybody played their heart out.  He's young, he's a great quarterback, he has a great future coming ahead.   
 Q.  You guys had the lead the whole game and they score 11 points in 48 seconds there.  I think they tied it up at 27, with less than a minute to go in the game.  Talk about how the defense was able to do what it was doing to Southern Miss's offense just what happened there and how were they able to force this thing to offer time?  
DAE'VON WASHINGTON: They picked up on some tendencies and got some good plays in.  Got to give them credit.   
 Q.  Talk about, how do you feel like the defense played?  
DAE'VON WASHINGTON: I think that all around we played a great game, they just made some good plays at the end.  I hate that it happened like that, but got to give them credit.   
 Q.  Same thing I asked earlier, how do you not let this one snowball into something worse than what it is tonight?  
DAE'VON WASHINGTON: Like I said earlier, like Marlon said, we got to keep each other up, keep each other together.  We're a family here.  So as long as we blow air into each other, keep each other uplifted, and prepare for the next opponent like we prepared for this one, we'll be good.   
 Q.  How bad did this team want this win tonight?  
DAE'VON WASHINGTON: Man, this is something that we have wanted for awhile.  I don't think we have beat them since I've been here, so we prepared like this was our Super Bowl.  We prepare every game like it's our Super Bowl, but this one just meant an extra lot.  So it's an extra sting, hurt right now, so...   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT