U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 2, 2004
Kim Saiki-Maloney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RHONDA GLENN:  Ladies and gentlemen, Kim Saiki, 3-under par, 68 today.  Kim, let's go over your card, first.  Birdies and bogeys, just give me the club on the birdie holes, and the distance of the putt, please.
 KIM SAIKI:  No. 3, I had 87 to the hole.  I hit sand wedge to about 20 feet, made the putt.

The next hole I pulled my drive into the left rough, and I had 174 to the hole.  I had -- it wasn't a bad lie, but it was sitting up in the rough, and I hit a rescue club, which is like a 7-wood.  And then I hit it high on the club face, and it came up about 25 yards short, 20 yards short.  Hit a great chip shot past the pin probably 7 feet and just missed the putt right of the hole, made bogey.
 No. 9, I hit a great drive right down the middle of the fairway, laid up with a 5-iron.  And then I had 96 to the pin.  And it was kind of on a down slope.  I hit kind of a low, penetrating shot into the hole, it was about 10, 15 feet below the hole and made the putt.
 No. 11, I hit driver, pitching wedge and I had 118 to the pin.  And I was about 12 to 15 above the pin and made the putt.
RHONDA GLENN:  No. 13, your favorite, the eagle.
 KIM SAIKI:  13, I hit a great drive to the left side of the fairway and then hit a rescue club, which was like a 4-iron, and hit it to about 20 feet short left of the pin and just rolled the putt in for eagle.
RHONDA GLENN:  Bogey on 16.
 KIM SAIKI:  16, I hit a great drive down the middle of the fairway, and I had 4-wood, the wind was blowing pretty hard, and I had 215 to the pin and I ended up just blocking it out to the right, in the right rough, and hit what I thought was a great chip shot, it was about 7 feet, 8 feet, and just missed the putt.  It was a breaking putt from left-to-right.  I actually thought I made the putt.
RHONDA GLENN:  Again today you birdied 17.
 KIM SAIKI:  17, I had 183 to the pin, and I hit a 5-iron just short of pin-high and it was about 15, 20 feet and made the putt.
RHONDA GLENN:  And earlier in the flash area we did No. 18, that will be on those notes later.

We've also talked about your putting, have you changed anything in your putting to have 18, 1-putt greens and no 3-putts, have you changed putters or anything.
 KIM SAIKI:  I'm using the Bettanardi putter, I was using the Cameron, and just needed a change.  The Cameron putter was a great putter, and I wasn't making anything.  I had -- I actually had the Bettanardi in the closet, I took it out and gave it a try.  It's not really in my specs, it's an inch longer than I normally use for a putter.  And it's standard, which normally I'm about a degree or two degrees flatter, but I just feel very comfortable over my putter right now.
RHONDA GLENN:  Did you just begin using it this week or earlier?
 KIM SAIKI:  Just this year, in the off-season.
Q.  You mentioned in the flash area how you like a variety of caddies, can you make a guess how many changes you've made caddy to caddy over the last few years?
 KIM SAIKI:  I guess I was joking around and being facetious.  I've tried many times having a full-time caddy.  And unfortunately it hasn't worked out.  I think the longest I've lasted with a caddy is 16 weeks.  Like I've said, I've had the best caddies that I've worked with.  And it was something that I didn't deal with very well.  But right now, I mean, like I said I've made a commitment to just trying different caddies every week.  I'm really enjoying it.  I don't have a problem with using different caddies every week.
RHONDA GLENN:  And he asked you about how many caddies you've had in your career.
 KIM SAIKI:  I couldn't tell you.  I couldn't tell you.  I've had anything from college kids, local kids, to Tour caddies.
Q.  They say you're tough to work for, precisely what's that mean?
 KIM SAIKI:  I think maybe some of the caddies misunderstand when I get angry or frustrated.  I'm very, very hard on myself.  I always have been.  And I think that maybe they have taken things personally.  I have never intentionally directed anything to any caddies, but I think maybe that's why they don't know my personality well enough.
Q.  Just curious, this is a terrific run you're on right now, can you put your finger on what's going on the last couple of weeks, and has there been any epiphany or anything like that?
 KIM SAIKI:  I can't explain it, I'm just -- I've been just very calm and having so much fun on the golf course.  The most fun I've ever had in my whole career, other than my junior golf career, but kids, nothing bothers you, everything is fun, and it's not that important.  I can't explain it.
Q.  When did that start, exactly?
 KIM SAIKI:  Kind of happened after the Sybase this year.  Actually right after that particular event I had kind of an informal meeting with the executive director for the Metropolitan Section of the PGA of America, and I was thinking of possibly taking a different career path, and after that day I had about five resumes, I was very calm and very happy, and I was okay with the fact that, you know what, I can take a different path in my career and be happy, be fine.
Q.  Charlie Robson?
 KIM SAIKI:  Charlie Robson, yes.
Q.  What spurred you to maybe not playing well, was it the results, what --
 KIM SAIKI:  I guess I'd have to say I wasn't really satisfied with basically the life-style wears on you, the traveling is tough.  I want to get married and have kids some day, and I just felt like maybe I should take a different path.
Q.  I apologize, but on that same line, what did you talk to Charlie about in terms of what path you might take, teaching pro --
KIM SAIKI:  Teaching professional.
Q.  And you wanted to be in the New York area?
KIM SAIKI:  Yes.
Q.  Why is that?
 KIM SAIKI:  I respect that section, a lot of the PGA instructors in that section are great players, they're great instructors, and they really take the game seriously.
Q.  What sort of sustains you through some difficult years, as you said, you're 38 years old now, what sustains you through your 30s, you weren't winning and got frustrated, what made you stay out here?
 KIM SAIKI:  Just determined.  Like I said before, I believe I have all the tools.  I can hit a lot of different golf shots, I have a good short game.  Over the years I've driven the ball fairly well.  I've just been determined.  I know that -- I knew that I had it in me.
Q.  Your grandparents are Japanese, and there are a lot of Korean women golfers that are very successful, and then Jennifer Rosales, have you ever given a thought that women who have roots in Asia are so successful in golf?
KIM SAIKI:  I'm sorry, could you --
RHONDA GLENN:  Have you ever thought about why women who have roots in Asia are so successful at golf?
 KIM SAIKI:  I don't know, I guess the only thing I can think of is really strong work ethics, determination, pride, working hard.
Q.  Has this run changed your mind on career goals or are you still seriously thinking about trying to do something else?
 KIM SAIKI:  I've definitely changed my mind on what's going on next year, but I still have a strong desire to teach golf and whether it be in two years or three years, I will take that path, depending on what happens in my personal life, as well.
Q.  Last week I read you said you felt you were more of an artist on the course than a technician, I guess maybe was the term.  Could you talk about that.  And also three USC players at the top of the leaderboard, I wonder if there's any good natured kidding going on over the next 24 hours?
 KIM SAIKI:  I had an instructor I worked with over 20 years John Enselmo (ph.), and I have to give a lot of credit to John for teaching me how to play the game with feel, not to be so mechanical.  He always taught me how to work the ball and work harder on my short game, hit a lot of different lob shots and chipping, and all the shots that are necessary.
RHONDA GLENN:  Three USC people at the top of the leaderboard, any good natured rivalry or kidding going on?
 KIM SAIKI:  I'm so much older than them.  I never knew them when I was in college.  And I think that they probably were there for a year or two.
Q.  Did you know them?
KIM SAIKI:  I knew them fairly well.
Q.  You talked about the good run you're on, what has the week been after winning, have you been able to have a normal week, were you worried about catching your breath and settling down?
 KIM SAIKI:  It was exciting and extremely overwhelming for me, because I haven't had a lot of attention.  It definitely felt great.  But when I came here I was extremely exhausted, because I'm not used to all the attention.  But I got a couple of good night's rest.  I've surprisingly been able to handle myself with all this attention.
Q.  Was there a point competing or contending for the U.S. Open or thinking of playing in the U.S. Open when it was inconceivable for you the past few years, when you didn't feel you had the game, and how does it feel to have a shot at it now?
 KIM SAIKI:  I always believed that I had the game, it was I couldn't a matter of doing it.  It feels fantastic to be in this position.  I'm very confident and very comfortable, that's why I've been out here for so long.  I've played the game for almost 28 years.  I've competed.  After I graduated from USC I turned pro in '89 and I've had 7 victories on the mini tours and I just kept going, because I believed that I could do it.
Q.  Have you been having sort of a chronic problem with your elbow, and can you talk about how that affected you for maybe a year or two, especially on the Tour?
 KIM SAIKI:  I've been very, very fortunate in the -- almost 29 years that I've competed, or 28 years, I have had very few injuries.  I consider myself very healthy, physically.  And just recently, I think it's my age, but I've had some tendinitis in my elbow.  And a few years ago I had to take a medical, because I had tendinitis in the biceps in my shoulder.  It's not extremely painful right now.  I've been getting therapy in the trailer.
Q.  You were at the top of the leaderboard at this event I think two years ago, did anything from that experience help you prepare for what you may face here this weekend?
KIM SAIKI:  I'm sorry, I missed the first part.
RHONDA GLENN:  You were at the top of the leaderboard, near the top two years ago, I think, two years ago, is there anything from that experience that will help you throughout this weekend?
 KIM SAIKI:  Patience is huge.  Patience and perseverance.
Q.  I'm curious, do you feel that the conversation that you had and the thoughts you had about taking a different career path, might just take the pressure off of you to make you play a lot easier these past several weeks?
 KIM SAIKI:  I think it might have.  I think what was -- what put my mind at ease is, like I said, I knew I could go down another path and be okay with that.  I think that's what made me relax and just go out and have fun.
Q.  We had an 18 year old leader yesterday, if Jennifer holds up she's 25.  Can you look back on being that age and what the difference is, I guess, as opposed to obviously 20 years, but as opposed to trying to go into the weekend contending for the title now?
 KIM SAIKI:  When you're that young you're fearless, you go out and you're just having a good time.  I don't know how to explain it.  You're more carefree.
RHONDA GLENN:  Thank you very much.  Good luck tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT