BMO FINANCIAL GROUP CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN
July 12, 2003
Kim Saiki-Maloney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  Great playing out there.


KIM SAIKI:  Thank you.


Q.  Very nice.  Two shots outs of the lead, hung in there, played very well.  Talk about how you feel?


KIM SAIKI:  I guess the last few days I've been just so steady hitting a lot of fairways and a lot of greens.  And I just felt really comfortable over the ball.  This is the best I've felt all year.  So very consistent. 


Q.  How is the course playing?  It got some rain today.  How did you handle that?


KIM SAIKI:   It was difficult.  The course played a lot longer today.  But the greens still rolled beautifully.  It was just a day that definitely tested your patience because it was a long day.  And I'm pretty exhausted right now just from the length of time that we were out there.  But the course drained well after the rain delay. 


Q.  Is it a grind when you're going through that?  The past couple of days, yesterday was, it was a long round yesterday, about five and a half hour rounds and then here you go today, a 90 minute rain delay, the beat goes on.  How hard is it to try to stay focused when you're out there?


KIM SAIKI:  It is quite a grind when you have rain delays.  Because you just have to stay calm and stay focused on what you're trying to do.  Because you can get a little lax from sitting around and waiting.  We're used to it.  It's not that big of a deal for us.


Q.  You're in great position now but you got two Hall of Famers.  Talk about going into the final round against Beth and Juli. 


KIM SAIKI:  Being played with Juli was great for me today.  I had a great time.  She was very please and the to play with.  And it definitely got me more competitive.  I know that I'm a couple shots behind the lead and I'm still looking for my first win, and I feel very good.  I feel I can do it. 


Q.  Laura Davies said yesterday that when you're playing with Juli and she gets on a roll, you just try to grab on to her coat tails and go along for the ride because you know you'll be in the hunt.  Is that kind of your mindset, just try and keep up with her and you know you'll have a shot?


KIM SAIKI:   I don't try to keep up with anybody.  I just have to play my own game.  Because all the players up at the top are always playing awesome and really are such competitors Juli as well as Beth.  And I have just have to go out there and stay patient and hit fairways and greens and hopefully make a few birdies. 


Q.  Where were you during the rain delay?


KIM SAIKI:  We were on the 6th fairway. 


Q.  Let's do the scorecard.  Starting with number three?


KIM SAIKI:  I hit a 5 wood from 206 and then hit it about 10 feet.  And then made the putt for birdie. 

Number 6 I hit     from 126 I hit a 9 iron about six feet left of the pin. 

I bogeyed 7.  Hit a 7 wood right of the green and didn't get it up and down.  I had probably about a 15 footer. 

Number 10, I hit driver, 4 wood into the left green side bunker.  And then hit it out about five feet past the pin.  And then made the putt coming back. 

Number 14, I had 172 to the pin and hit a 5 iron right, short right.  And actually hit a pretty good wedge shot up there and missed a 10 footer.  So I made bogey there. 

16, I had 153, hit a 17 iron about 20 feet.  Below the pin.  Made the putt. 

And then 18 I hit about 207 to the front of the green and I had the option of going for it, but I ended up laying back.  I hit an 8 iron, laid it up to 94 yards.  And hit an A wedge up there about 10 feet. 


Q.  All right.   Thank you. 


KIM SAIKI:  Thank you. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT