TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 24, 2009
Alex Torres
Colby Whitlock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   THE MODERATOR: We have Colby Whitlock and Alex Torres.

 Q. What is the mood of the team after a loss like this? 
 ALEX TORRES: Frustration. I mean definitely we're upset. And that is just one thing that we all as a team just put upon ourselves. I mean, we put ourselves in this situation. So as upset as we are, there is no one that's going to be able to turn it around but us. So, I mean, frustration.
 COLBY WHITLOCK: Just like he said. We're all disappointed. But at this point, it's over. We can't change what happened. All we can do is start tomorrow, come out and work, work hard. Go to win one out.

 Q. This Aggie team lost 62-14 last week. What was the difference? How were they playing differently than last week? 
 COLBY WHITLOCK: It's the Big 12, man. It don't matter every week, week in, week out, it don't matter who you're playing. It's the Big 12. The fact is they came here ready to play. We didn't. And as a result, you know, we lost the game.
 ALEX TORRES: Just like Colby said - they didn't do anything different than just come out here ready to play. It was us to that let too many distractions get in our head, get in our way. And that's really what effected the outcome of the game. We shot ourselves in the foot right when we came out. 
 I mean, we had distractions in our mind, in our head. That prevented us from playing the way we knew we could play. So as far as that, they didn't do anything different than what they showed on film, it's just we shot ourselves in the foot.

 Q. Did you all overlook the Aggies this week in practice and in preparation? 
 ALEX TORRES: I don't think we overlooked them. But I mean you've got to give them credit for what they did out there on the field. They came ready to play. They were able to forget what happened last week and just come out ready to play. And that's one thing we weren't able to do. 
 We had in our minds too many distractions about things that were going on, and that, just like the question before, we came out here and we just didn't bring the team that we've been playing with, and they did. They stepped up and brought their game, hat's off to them.

 Q. Could you be specific about the distractions that you're talking about? What sort of distraction? 
 ALEX TORRES: I mean, from the little things to the big things. Everyone just not focusing on the next play. I mean, that's one thing he we take pride in here is pulling the next play. Leach preaches it all the time, And that's one thing we've been able to do the past couple of weeks and any kind of thing that prevented us. 
 I mean, looking up and like one thing Coach Leach tells us is looking up at the scoreboard. That is a distraction. I mean, looking up at the scoreboard, there is nothing it's going to do for the next play. It's not going to help us out at all to do anything like that. 
 When we're out there, good or bad, it doesn't matter what is going on around us. All that matters is what your job is, and that is the specific point. And I think we failed to do that tonight. That is one of the distractions that I'm talking about.

 Q. What do you think the issue is with Taylor Potts? What did you see from him out there today? 
 ALEX TORRES: Oh, it's not just him. I mean, it's everyone on the whole. It's the whole offensive group. I mean, we put ourselves in bad situations. I mean, it's tough to come out of. 
 Then as far as it's definitely not just one player. It is the whole offense. We didn't run as crisp of routes that we needed to. We didn't block as well as we needed to. We didn't run the ball as well as he we needed to. Overall, it was a different guy on every play. 
 As far as blaming it on one guy that's one thing we're not going to do here. We're just going to go ahead and move on, and take it all amongst ourselves. If we go back and watch that film, we're going to see that it wasn't just someone else. We came out with too many, like I said, too many distractions. Too many guys not doing what they were supposed to do on a specific play, and that's what killed us. 
 So as far as Potts, I mean, he made some mistakes just like everyone else out there. And that's the way we're going to take it.

 Q. They rushed for a lot of yards tonight. What was the biggest problem up front and in your front seven? 
 COLBY WHITLOCK: I think a lot of times we didn't come out and we weren't on the same page. Maybe some misalignments, and, you know, it's like coach Tyler says, any time you miss a line or miss a technique or your job, they hit that gap. We'll have to go back and watch the film tomorrow, but I don't know what happened as of right now. I'm going to have to go back and look at film. 
 But it's us more than anything not attacking and doing what we've done for the last two or three games.

 Q. What did Coach Leach tell you guys after the game? 
 COLBY WHITLOCK: Basically, we came out, like he's been saying, unfocused. The Aggies came in focused. We didn't respect them, and, like I said before, as a result, we got beat. So we've got to come back to work Sunday. Workout the rest of the season and try to get four more wins. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT