PILOT PEN TENNIS AT YALE
August 26, 2010
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. DEMENTIEVA/M. Bartoli
  6-3, 3-6, 6-2 
   
  Q. What was the difference in the end? You were able to take back control.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I feel I played very well in the first set, very aggressively. It was a very long first set, even though the score was just 6-3. We played almost an hour.   
 Then in the second set, I feel I lost my concentration. She was playing very solid on the baseline, put a lot of pressure on my serve. So I just took a break after the second one. I just tried to play as I did in the first set.   
 I was trying to go for the winner, not to go into the long rallies. I was trying to move her around the court because it was very physical, it was a very hot day. I was, yeah, playing more aggressively in the end.   
  
  Q. Obviously you're in great shape, but two three-hour matches in a row. Is there such a thing as too much tennis going into the US Open and are you worried about being fatigued?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: No, I wanted to play some matches here. Sometimes you have to go through such a difficult match, very long three sets, to feel your game, to feel your confidence.   
 You know, today I feel even after three sets match against Kateryna Bondarenko I was playing very well in the first set. Tomorrow it's going to be a night match for me, so I have enough time to recover and play another good one.   
  
  Q. Your next opponent is Caroline. Usually you have very tough matches.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yes.   
  
  Q. How do you see her form right now?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think she's in a great shape. She just won Montréal, beat so many good players. She's a very solid player, you know. Physically she's very fit. We always have a very tough match against each other, so it's going to be a tough challenge for me.   
  
  Q. Who do you see with the best chances at the US Open?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: For sure she's one of the favorite to win. She's playing very well on the hard court. She's playing very solid this summer, you know. Great win in Montréal. First seed in the US Open, so it's a good chance for her.   
  
  Q. There are three Russians in the semifinals tomorrow. A lot of talented Russians playing tennis today. What is it apparently at a young age they do so well for such an influx of tennis players?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I wish I can say that we have a great system and we have a great support from the Federation, but it's not true. I mean, all these results are just based on our hard working. Because our parents are involved so much, it's a big sacrifice for them.   
 I just see all the girls, especially Russian girls, working very hard. They are very competitive. It's great to have so many of us trying to compete against each other, trying to be a part of the Olympic team, a part of the Fed Cup team.   
 This is a great motivation for all of us to work hard and play a better game.   
  
  Q. How difficult or easy do you find it playing another Russian?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, maybe it was difficult in the beginning when you play for the first time. It's always tricky. You know someone very well. You practice together. So it can be so emotional.   
 But right now I'm coming to the tournament and I'm going to face maybe one or two or three Russians in the draw. So it's kind of things that I get used to it. I'm not so emotional about it. It's just a match to play, just a match to win.   
 But sometimes that can be emotional still (smiling).   
  
  Q. Is the sport popular in Russia right now? Is that why there are so many?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: It's a big country (laughter). We're all coming from a different part of the country. There's just a few of us from the same club. It's a multi-millions living there, so lots of talent.   
  
  Q. Having done well at the US Open before, what sort of mindset do you go into the event this year with? After what happened in Paris and then missing Wimbledon, do you see this year's US Open as a chance to make up for missing out on what happened in the last two?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I just love to play New York. I love to play US Open. I played there my first semifinal in a Grand Slam 10 years ago. I'm always inspired by the crowd in New York. I love this place.   
 So I don't think about my chances. I don't think about my opportunities. I know it's going to be a tough challenge. I know it's going to be a lot of good players out there. I just want to take it easy, just focus on each match. We'll see if I can do it.   
  
  Q. Do you feel old: '10 years ago'?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I feel very old (laughter).   
  
  Q. You're almost a regular now in the semifinals here. Is this somewhere where you're very comfortable, you like the court, the place?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I like to play here. I play a couple of semifinals before. It's a very nice place. We play the same courts, the same balls as US Open. So I think it's quite interesting to see all of the players playing this week because they're all in a great shape, they're all ready to play a Grand Slam.   
 So this is not a preparation, it's just that's how we play, how we're going to play two weeks in New York. I think it's very exciting.   
  
  Q. You've come into New Haven to do grass-roots tennis before and helped out the tournament. How much do you pay attention to the quest for a title sponsor? They are looking for a title sponsor or they'll be in trouble. How much do you talk to Anne or pay attention to that?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I think all the players who are coming to New Haven for so many years, they love this tournament, are trying to support this tournament in any way we can.   
 As a player, I just feel a responsibility, always trying to help the tournament director. I know Anne has done a great job of making this event for so many years.   
 It's a tough time. It's very difficult to keep all the sponsors. As a player, I'm just trying to be, you know, responsible, and make sure that I can help for the tournament.   
  
  Q. You and a few of the other women were featured in a New York Times magazine video, photo spread. Can you talk about that a little bit.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah, it was a fun experience. Just went for the photo shooting. I didn't know what it's going to be like. I was working so hard for two hours, jumping with this backhand volley that I never play in a match (laughter). That was quite exciting.   
 Then you can see in the slow motion all the details, when you contact with the ball. It was quite exciting.   
  
  Q. When did it take place?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: In Cincinnati a couple weeks ago.   
  
  Q. How important is that glamour aspect for someone like yourself, some of the other girls on the tour? Is it something that is really needed in the sport?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I have to ask you this question, you as a spectator. I think everyone is enjoying to watch pretty girls playing well. But first of all, it's a sport, you know. Nobody's gonna come and see you just because you look nice. They want to see some great tennis. They want to see some great games, great results. If you're looking nice, that's going to attract more spectators in the match.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT