PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 18, 2005
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Obviously the first question is, what happened?  Did you pull a muscle? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  No, I don't think I pulled a muscle.  I think I just strained a muscle a little bit.  I hope it's okay.  I have enough time, you know, till Miami to recover and feel better for the next event. 

Q.  Did it affect you much when you came back?  Did it bother you much?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, I mean, the therapist was helpful but it was too tight that I couldn't move really.  But, you know, was a lot of three-sets matches for me so I feel like I was a little bit slow today on the court, maybe a little bit tired.  Couldn't really play my game. 

Q.  When you came back, the game went seven deuces.  If you could have won that one, might it have fired you up a little bit?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  No, you know, when you realize you can't really move, you just start to use your arms and hit the ball as hard as you can.  So that's what I did.  You know, I think I did a lot of good winners, but it's not enough when you play against Kim, you have to move very well, as well. 

Q.  Can you give us an assessment of where Kim is with her game versus where she was when she left the tour?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I think that she's in very good shape.  She feels pretty confident on the court.  I think it's not easy for her to play after, you know, such a long break.  But it feels like, you know, she's a very strong person and she's coming back.  I'm sure very soon we'll see in the Top 10 again. 

Q.  Are you surprised she's coming back so quickly as she is?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I'm not surprised.  You know, she's very strong.  When I saw her in Belgium last year, I was playing a small tournament there, she was physically okay, just something maybe -- you know, something with her wrist that really bother her.  But this tournament feels like she's very confident with her backhand. 

Q.  She made a few changes while she was away.  Can you notice anything on the court?  Anything different about the way she plays the game?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  She's still a little bit, you know, careful with her backhand.  She doesn't go down the line very often.  You know, she's trying to come back, you know, just to play back,  you know, from her backhand shots.  But her forehand is still pretty powerful.  She makes a lot of winner with her forehand.  Her game is pretty -- I mean, pretty same, comparing what I saw last time she was playing. 

Q.  Do you still feel like your serve is letting you down at key moments, key positions?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I don't think so.

Q.  In this match you served a double-fault on the first point of the match, then didn't serve another until the match was in its 39th minute.  Is that encouraging to you?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  No. 

Q.  It's hard to get away from the double-fault issue, it seems.  Does it bother you that people always bring it up and want to talk about that aspect of it?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  No, no. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT