PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 16, 2005
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  I know it's not the same as a US Open final, but is there a little bit of consolation in scoring a win over her this time? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  But, you know, this stadium reminds me a lot US Open stadium.  You know, I think I played much better than I did it in the final last year in US Open.  So I think it was a great match.  We both play very well.  You know, I'm just very happy the way.  I think she's the most powerful player on the tour.  I mean, she's very strong.  She's good enough to play ATP Tour.  Sometimes I was just watching the ball, and it was unbelievable what she did with her forehand.  It was a tough match, so I'm very happy to win. 

Q.  How surprising is it to you that it ended that way, her double-faulting? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I didn't expect this double-fault.  I think she did only one.  I think that was her first or second one. 

Q.  Usually you're the one that has the faulty serve.  This time it ended in your favor. 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  It was my fifth match point, and she was playing unbelievable, you know, to get these points back.  So I was waiting, you know, for the good serve.  I was, you know, trying to tell myself that I have to be aggressive, I have to attack this one, and then double-fault.  I didn't expect, you know such end of the match. 

Q.  What was your feeling as that happened? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I was glad, you know. I didn't have to go for the winner and to take risk, so it's nice to finish this way. 

Q.  Were you trying to do something different on that fifth match point?  It looked like on some of the other match points your return was a bit tentative. 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I think she played unbelievable on these match points.  I was trying to think -- you know, I was thinking that I have to do something different, you know.  I have to return aggressive this one.  I have to take advantage of her second serve.  So I was trying to step into the court.  And then double-fault. 

Q.  You were up 5-3, she breaks you.  Do you start getting a little nervous? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  No, no.  You know, I think I wasn't aggressive enough on my serve.  I didn't -- I mean, I didn't push any pressure on her.  You know, my serve is very slow, so she could take advantage and, you know, just hit the ball very well.  But, you know, my favorite is, you know, return, so I wasn't that upset.  I was just trying to be focused and positive on the court. 

Q.  Were you pleased with the way you served in the second set?  You didn't have to hit too many second serves in that one.  Your first serve was going in a lot. 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yes, I was trying to put my first serve in, you know. I was trying to serve at her backhand a lot, you know, even my serve wasn't that fast.  But I think it was very important.  She always very aggressive with my second serve.  And I remember US Open when she was, you know, making the winner, you know, every single second serve that I put it there. 

Q.  How about from the standpoint that you're playing a fellow Russian?  Does it get you more fired up out there in that aspect or do you even look at it that way?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, every time you play someone that you lost, you feel like more motivated, you feel like -- I always feel like a fighter, like I want to go there and, you know, win this time.  For me it's very interesting to play, you know, against such a good player as Svetlana. 

Q.  I hear you have family here with you.  I was wondering, how is the Pacific Life Open conducive to having your family here with you?  Does it help having them here with you?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I don't have my whole family with me, only my mom is here. 

Q.  Your mom?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yes.  I mean, she always travels with me.  It's kind of -- I don't feel any different here or anywhere else.  I think there are people who work for the tournament are very nice to every single a player and you don't feel any difference if you are Top 10 or Top 100.  That's why, you know, we all love to come here.  You know, people, volunteer, are trained their best for us to feel like at home.  I don't know.  My mom is happy to be here. 

Q.  How are you feeling physically?  This is your third three-set match in a row.  Were you feeling a little tired out there at the end?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I was feeling a little tired in the end of the match.  But I knew that I have a day off if I win.  So I was trying to give everything I could.  You know, with a day off, I'll be okay for the semifinal. 

Q.  A couple years ago there had only been one Russian woman that won a Grand Slam.  Last year you won three of the four.  Is it no longer an "us versus them"?  The Russian country-women seem they're closer.  Now it's like you have to battle each other to get a piece of the pie. 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, it's a tough competition between all of us.  You know, there are so many Russians here, so everyone wants to be the best one.  I'm sure that the rest of the Russians are watching this match, me and Svetlana.  Every time the two Russians play together, you know, all the girls are watch the match, you know, just look who is the best one.  So it's kind of competition between all of us. 

Q.  What watch do you have?  What is the type? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I don't know what's the type. 

Q.  The shirt? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  It's a Yonex shirt. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT