WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP WOMEN'S OPEN
August 11, 2010
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. PAVLYUCHENKOVA/E. Dementieva
  6-1, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. I'm guessing that didn't go how you anticipated it would. Could you describe what want went on with you?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I was not feeling well today, and I think I was affected by the weather condition. Yeah, that probably was the worst match for a long, long time for me.
 Well, but sometimes happens, so I just to have forget about it and try to, you know, play better tennis in the next tournament.

 Q. Was there one aspect of your game where it really affected you the most?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: No, I just feel I was not into the game. You know, I couldn't really focus. My concentration was not there. Yeah, I was just not feeling well. 

 Q. Do you think the weather had anything to do with it? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah, it was very humid the last few days. You know, I was trying to practice and get ready for this kind of conditions, but it was quite difficult to do. 

 Q. How did she play? How much of it was her?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I was missing every single ball, so it was easy for her to win. 

 Q. Does the rain delay of any affect on this? Usually you can look at the schedule and get an idea of what time of day you're gonna play, and then obviously the rain delay shifts that a lot. Did that have something to do with your energy level?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, look, we're all in the same conditions and we all have to wait for a couple of hours before we go on the court. It was tough for everyone here, so, I mean, there is in excuse. Probably I was just not ready 100%. I was physically not there today. 
 But, you know, that was just a bad experience.  
 Q. When you talk about physically not being there, is your calf feeling all right?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah, my calf is fine.

 Q. Where are you going next? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I'm going to Montreal next week.

 Q. You're defending champion at the Rogers Cup in Montreal. How does this loss affect your preparation for defending that title?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: It will be difficult, because I was hoping to play some matches here. This is what I was looking for coming to Cincinnati after I was missing Wimbledon. I was out of competition for a couple weeks. 
 So it's gonna be tough to defend this title, but, you know, we'll try to practice, get the rhythm, and see if I feel better next week. 

 Q. How much confidence did you get from the match you played with Sharapova in Stanford? Some people thought it was one of the best matches of the tournament. 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yes, I thought it was a good match. Every week is different. You have to cope with different circumstances and different weather conditions. 
 This week it was quite difficult to do so, so hopefully I just play better in Montreal. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT