AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2005
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How do you feel after this tough match? 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, I feel a little bit tired.  It was a tough match.  You know, three sets.  I feel like I didn't play my good game.  But I think it's pretty much impossible to play your best tennis during two weeks.  So sometimes, you know, it can be, you know, bad day that you have to go through this.  I think even that I was playing, you know, very bad today, was very defensive, you know, I still could do it.  I'm just happy to be in the next round.  
 
Q.  Issues involving Kuznetsova, et cetera, has that made it more difficult?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  It's over.  For me it's over.  You know, it took a lot of energy for me, but it's over now.  I don't think about it any more.  It's over with me.  
 
Q.  Are you ready to continue both singles and doubles to win the final?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I mean, I'm ready to play my doubles match tomorrow because, you know, that's the good thing, that I'm playing singles one day and doubles to another day so I have enough time to recover.  You know, I'm sure I will be okay tomorrow for my doubles match.  
 
Q.  Have you got confidence so far to get a big title?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah.  That's why I'm here, you know.  Even that I didn't play my best today, I know that I can do it.  I know how well I can play.  All I need is to have a good rest now and play as good as I can for the next round.  
 
Q.  How difficult was the third set for you mentally after having some chances in the second?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, yeah, that was difficult.  I have a chance to finish in the second set.  But I think it's a game, you know.   Whenever it's happen, you have to continue, you have to go till the end.  I was trying to play a little bit more aggressive in the third set, even if I was a little bit tired.  You know, I think I did a couple good shots, and I could do it.  
 
Q.  What we are quite interested in is the Molik/Venus match.  Can I ask your opinion who you think could win and why? 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I didn't know that they play together.  
 
Q.  They'll play in the fourth round. 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, it's very difficult to say because Alicia, she's in a good shape.  But it's not easy to play because she has a lot of pressure by playing home.  It's a big support from the crowd, but at the same time people are, you know, expecting to win this match for Alicia.  But she's in a good shape and I think she can do it.  
 
Q.  What do you think about your next match against Patty Schnyder?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  We just played last week in Sydney.  We know each other very well.  She's a left-handed player.  She has a good, you know, serve.  She's a tough player for me.  I'm sure I have to play much better than today to beat her.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT