AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2005
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Last few days, how have they been for you with all the rumors flying around?  
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I mean, you have no idea what, you know, I been through all these days.  It's been too hard on me, you know.  I was innocently involved in all this story that I have nothing to do with.  And just ridiculous how I think press reacted and this cover on today newspaper and all this talking around me.  And the WTA, the way they are trying to, you know, handle this problem by saying there is three victims like, but I see only two victim in this story - me and Nathalie Dechy, who really have nothing, you know, have nothing to do with this.  We just became a part of this by mistake, but huge mistake. I think it's been too hard on us.  
 
Q.  I mean, obviously, do you blame the Belgian minister?  Are you angry?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I think he did a mistake by saying that it wasn't Justine.  He has absolutely no rights to say such a things because by the rules they cannot announce the name until they done the second test and they are 100% sure that that's the one, that's the person. But I think there's been a lot of mistakes by, you know, some different people around this story. 
 
Q.  Are you going to take this any further yourself?  Have you sort of thought about legal action? 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, I'm just so tired of this story.  You know, it took a lot of energy of me.  I'm here to play, you know.  That's the last thing I want to -- I want to think about doing my Grand Slam.  You know, just trying to forget about all that's happened these past two days and just try to be focused, you know, just on my game.  
 
Q.  Did you sort of speak to Svetlana about it in the last couple of days or to Nathalie? 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  To be honest with you, I don't feel like I want to talk to Sveta at all.  You know, I spoke with Nathalie this morning and we were, you know, congratulate, you know, each other for the match because it's been a very hard first round for both of us.  And, you know, we are very disappointed by seeing the cover of the magazine.  But it's all right now. 
 
Q.  Was it almost a relief to get on the court today and play? 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, sometimes tennis can help me to forget something.  When you play, you really don't think about, you know, something that really bother me all these days.  I was, you know, just trying to focus on every single point.  I think it's really help me.  
 
Q.  When you say you don't really want to talk to Svetlana, is that just because you don't want to bother her about this issue, or are you a bit upset with the way everything has happened?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I'm just very upset with the way everything has happened.  I mean, I don't feel like I want to talk to her, that's it.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT