US OPEN
September 10, 2004
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 
 
 
Q.  Do you think that your persistence in coming to the net in the third set was the difference in this match today? 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, it was very difficult to play with the wind today so I was trying to, you know, stay closer to the ball and just go to the net because that was the only way I could win this match.  You know, especially from one side, when you play against the wind, there is no other choice to win the point; you have to go to the net. 
 
Q.  It seemed like a surprisingly easy first set for you.  Were you surprised the way you came out?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, I was surprised because last time we play, she usually start very well, the match.  I was surprised that she was so nervous.  She could not play well in the beginning.  It was so easy 6-Love.  I don't like the score 6-Love, because it's always something going on after the score.  I just -- finally we play much better in the second and third sets.  Finally I think we both played well today. 
 
Q.  Can you describe what you felt at the end of the tiebreak?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I don't know.  I was thinking about just, you know, be aggressive, you know, stay positive, go to the net.  That's all I was, you know, telling myself all the time.  
 
Q.  Did she say anything to you at the end of the match, either on the court or in the locker room? 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  No, I didn't see her after the match. 
 
Q.  At the net, just shook hands?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah. 
 
Q.  Do you have an explanation for the secret of Russian ladies' success in tennis lately?  Even if two Grand Slam winners are not there, well, you were already in the final in Paris, but...
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, it really surprised me as much as it surprised you because, you know, I know that there are a lot of us and we play very good, but, you know, to see another Russian final in a Grand Slam, two Grand Slam already, you know, won by Russian girls, I mean, that's amazing.  It's unbelievable to me.  It's really surprise me.  
 
Q.  How did you go from Roland Garros final, where you were so nervous and couldn't play, till today where all the way at the end you're fighting, you're playing aggressive, you're not showing any nerves whatsoever?  Just talk about mentally, how did you get to that point?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, in the end of the game, I was so tired that it was no place for nerves, you know.  I was, you know, always thinking about every single point.  I wasn't nervous at all.  Why should I?  I mean, it's been a great tournament for me so far.  I was really, you know -- it was not easy to play against this crowd today, you know.  They were, you know, laughing at my serve, just saying something.  It was not easy to play.  So I was like, I was kind of relaxed a little.  I was into the game all the time.  
 
Q.  What did you hear people say?  You said they were saying things. 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  No, just about, you know, how much they love Jennifer (smiling).  
 
Q.  After you lost the second set did you feel your strong ground strokes would allow you to prevail despite the winds? 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, I felt like in the second set I just was continue to do this kind of thing that I started to play, but because of the wind, I did some, you know, little mistakes.  And I was trying to stay positive and continue the way I started this match. And, you know, I was trying to play more to the body, you know, more to the middle of the court because of the wind, and didn't take too much risk.  
 
Q.  Could you tell me about Olga Morozova.  Can you tell me where she helped you most?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  She's a great coach.  She has a great experience by coaching a lot of Russian girls.  She was a great player as well.  
 
Q.  Where has she helped you?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  She really -- you know, she really helped me to prepare myself for the match, especially during the Grand Slam where you have to play during two weeks.  You know, we have a lot of conversation before the match - how to play, what should I do on the court, how to stay positive, all these things.  It's not something magic that she can change in my game, but she's really trying. 
 
Q.  She has changed your game.  You were unrecognizable since last year. 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You think so?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I think that's what we're working for, that I'm trying to play more aggressive.  I'm trying to go to the net.  I'm trying to work on my serve. I really feel like I need some time to show how much I can do during the match, because I feel pretty good in my practice. 
 
Q.  It must take a lot of mental strength to play on when you hear people laughing at your serve, no? 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I mean, it doesn't bother me at all.  I mean, I keep winning (laughter).  They can say whatever they want to say, I mean... 
 
Q.  You said yesterday that you didn't want an all-Russian final; you'd rather play an American.  Now you have to play Svetlana.  How do you feel? 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I mean, how do I feel?  I feel happy to be in the final.  No matter who I play, you know, I go on the court, I try to play my best.  If it's Svetlana, then it's Svetlana.  There is nothing I can change about it. 
 
Q.  Do you remember the young girl who played here in the semifinals years ago?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I do remember.  I do remember this match against Lindsay when I was 6-Love, 5-Love down, and I start to play.  It was 7-6 in the second set.  Yes, I still remember this match.  I still remember this semifinals.  But it feels completely different this time. 
 
Q.  How are you different? 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I feel -- I mean, I feel more confidence right now.  I feel like in that time I did so good and I didn't really -- I didn't understood what I did.  Right now it just feels like I'm doing some great things, and I deserve to be in the final now. 
 
Q.  Jennifer's ground strokes are so strong.  Did you expect that on your second serve she would try to hit deep, maybe down the middle, follow the ball to the net and put pressure on your second serve?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, but when I'm making my second serve, I'm already waiting for the next shot.  That's why it's so slow (laughter).  
 
Q.  Were you surprised that you didn't use that tactic?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, because of the wind, it was very difficult to, you know, to go down the line or to do some unbelievable strokes, you know.  What you have to do, you have to play in the middle, like I said.  She couldn't do it.  
 
Q.  She wouldn't follow it in at all today?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  (Shrugging her shoulders). 
 
Q.  Your second Grand Slam final in three months.  How do you make sure tomorrow you bring out your best tennis?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I mean, nobody gives me guarantee that I'm going to play my best.  I don't know how I'm going to feel tomorrow, but I definitely took a lesson in French Open, and I'll try to be more positive tomorrow.  
 
Q.  How do you explain your serve, especially as it compares to how strong your other strokes are?  Why do you think you struggle so much with your serve?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  It's not my favorite shot to do.  
 
Q.  Physically, how are you?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Physically, I feel good, you know.  I really like to play hard courts.  I had a very tough matches here, but it's always, you know, one or two days off between the matches. My leg is getting better, so I really, you know, I'm glad that the final is gonna be 8 o'clock so I have enough time to recover. 
 
Q.  Twice today you seemed to grab at the place where your injury is.  Did it twinge or hurt just a little bit a couple times today?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, I mean, I have to play with an injury that I have with my leg.  But I'm telling you, there is, you know, every single player has something.  And if you want to be a champion, you have to play through the pain sometimes.  That's what I'm doing right now.  
 
Q.  How did you develop your serve?  It's sort of an unconventional motion. 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I think it's all mental, you know, because I really know how to serve.  I can serve in my practice.  All I need is to bring all these things to the court during the match.  And it's not easy to do because I was serving for a long time with a slice serve because my shoulder was injured, and it's very difficult to change right now just in my mind.  
 
Q.  How well do you know Svetlana?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  How well?  
 
Q.  How well do you know her?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I mean, I know her very well.  We play couple times before, which I play a couple weeks before.  She's a very good player.  She has a lot of power.  Really not surprised that she beat Lindsay today.  
 
Q.  At 4-2 in the tiebreak, you led 4-2, changed sides, you really hit out on Capriati's serve.  You hit a winner cross-court.  Was that indicative of how positive and how aggressive you felt in the tiebreak? 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, I love to play tiebreaks, you know.  I just feel like that's the best moment of the game, you know, when everything's so close and you feel all this, you know, every single point is very important to you.  I like to, you know, I like to be aggressive, so I just took a risk on this shot.  I was leading 4-2, so it was a good moment to make a good return.  
 
Q.  What would it mean to you to win a Grand Slam tomorrow? 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Everything (smiling).  That's what I'm dreaming, and that's what I'm working all these years for. 
 
Q.  Are you disappointed they closed the Russian Tea room?  We used to have a restaurant. 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  On site, you mean?  
 
Q.  In New York City.  But it's closed. 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  (Smiling).  I'll cook for you something (laughing).  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT