US OPEN
September 7, 2004
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Elena, please.


Q.  Are you able to put your finger on what exactly you did to turn the tide of the match?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  No, it was a very tough match.  You know, it was difficult to play.  I had something with my leg, you know, which is really, you know, limit my game a little bit.  With this humid and hot weather, it was not easy to play today.  I feel it was a great match and, you know, I'm very glad that I could survive. 

Q.  You also have some stomach ailments?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, I mean, I think what's happened, I just lost lots of water during the match.  It was a really long one, really long match.  I had upset stomach, called for the physio, and, you know, was really, really dying on the end of the third set. 

Q.  How did you get through all that against such a tough opponent?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Because I'm Russian (smiling).  I like all these troubles, you know.  I like to play against someone very strong.  I like to, you know, I like to compete.  Amelie is a great player, and, you know, it's very interesting to play against her.  I was trying really my best today. 

Q.  Had it ever crossed your mind to withdraw or quit? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  No.  I don't like to do this.  When I'm in the court, I'm trying to focus on my game, even if I have something injury or whatever it is.  I'm just trying to focus on the point.  And I'm trying to forget about all other, you know, things going on with me. 

Q.  During the second set on a changeover you said something to yourself to motivate yourself.  Do you remember what that was?  It was in Russian.  It was after a key game late in the second set.  You screamed something to yourself as you were changing. 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  No, I can't remember this. 

Q.  There are going to be two Russian women in the semifinals: Yourself and Nadia.  What does that mean in your mind, and why do you think there's been so much success amongst your group this Grand Slam season?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, well, I think that all the Russian girls, they are working hard and they like to compete.  They just like me, they dying for every point and would love to win.  We're really working hard and I think we deserve to be in the top. Just, you know, it's just amazing how many good players we have for the moment.  But, you know, in the same time, the tennis is getting more and more popular in Russia and it's not surprising me. 

Q.  The first time your trainer came out, it looked like she was examining your leg.  Did the injury turn into the stomach and heat exhaustion as the match went on, or was she out there the first time for that?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  No, the first time she came because of my leg, because I aggravate it during the match and she did an extra tape with me. But the next time I called, it was in the end of the third set, it was upset stomach.

Q.  What was in the tube that she gave you?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I don't really know. 

Q.  But it helped? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  It did help me, yeah. 

Q.  Think you'll be okay for your next match? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, hopefully.  I'm not playing till Friday, so I have a lot of time to recover and I'm sure I will feel much better on Friday. 

Q.  What will you do to recover? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Probably take a rest, you know, not practicing tomorrow, and some treatment for my leg. 

Q.  You played that tiebreak very aggressively.  It looked like the first forehand you got, you were going for it.  What was your tactic?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, I was little upset with this last game because it was 6-5 for me and it was a chair umpire mistake; he couldn't see the out.  It could be Love-30 for me.  I was very upset with the situation.  I start to play very aggressive.  And it did work. 

Q.  Where is one of your favorite places that you've been on tour?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  My favorite places?  I love New York, it's nice to be here.  I love Australia.  You know, I like all the places that I'm playing good (smiling).

Q.  What did you do in Australia?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  What I like?  I really like Australian people.  They are very friendly.  Just beautiful, I think it's beautiful country. 

Q.  Were you ever surprised?  With the leg and the stomach, were you ever surprised you pulled it out?  Are you surprised you won in the end given you were injured and weren't feeling well, you didn't get the call you wanted?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Am I surprised that I won, no, I'm not.  I wouldn't play if I wouldn't think so. 

Q.  Given the circumstances, given that you were in pain, that you felt sick?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, I mean, it was tough to play but it really helped my game.  I had something with my leg, and I start to do serve and volley.  I finish second set like this, and I did surprise my coach by making this.  But, you know, was looking for some other way to win.  I like to move, but when you can't move, you have to use your arm, something else.  And that's really interesting, you know, because you have to think a lot when you have something.  You have to be, you know, smart on the court. 

Q.  Are we going to see more serve and volley?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  With an injured leg, probably, yes (smiling). 

Q.  Can you describe the best vacation you've taken, and what you did on it. 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Oh, I think the best vacation was last year during the off-season when I came to Switzerland.  I had just a very nice week.  I was snowboarding, doing some country cross skiing.  I like wintertime, so it was a very nice time. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT