US OPEN
September 5, 2004
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Elena.  
 
 
Q.  If Mauresmo wins, you will play against her.  Can you tell me how you see this match because you played her in Roland Garros?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, I think I play -- if she wins, it's going to be very interesting because, you know, we played lot of times against each other.  I think she's a great player.  I'm sure she wants to take her revenge against me, especially after I beat her in Paris.  I know that she's a great player and I have to play my best, you know, to win against her.  
 
Q.  What does she have very special?  What is difficult to play against her for you or easy? 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I don't think that she has something, unbelievable shots or something.  She has a very solid game.  She has a good serve and, you know, good groundstrokes.  You know, she can go to the net.  I mean, she has a very solid game and she's a fighter.  
 
Q.  What do you think about your shape today and your match today? 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I think that I wasn't playing my best today, but I'm very happy that I was able to win.  You know, sometimes it's important to win a match when, you know, something doesn't go too good.  You know, I'm just glad to go to the next round.  
 
Q.  Vera tends to be a very emotional player.  Is it difficult to play when you see somebody is just sobbing, even when they win the first set, they're just sobbing on the changeover?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I think we both are very emotional player, me and Vera.  We usually play with a lot of emotion on the court.  I think it was first time that we play against each other, which was, you know, a little bit nervous for both of us.  But I still feel like it was a good game today.  
 
Q.  Did it affect you or bother you when you saw her just break down like that?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, I know that she's -- she can cry sometimes in the court.  You know, she can be sometimes too much -- you know, too emotional.  But I think it didn't affect her game.  So I was trying to concentrate on my game.  I didn't look to her.  I was trying to focus, just trying to play better myself.  
 
Q.  Is the final of Roland Garros behind you or you still have in your mind?  Did you take lessons or experience?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, I still remember everything the match I played there.  It was my best moment in my career.  I learn a lot, you know, by losing this final.  You know, I still feel like it was a great experience.  If I had a chance to play another final in a Grand Slam, maybe this French Open would help me next time.  
 
Q.  Is it always a different feeling when you play against a Russian and another one who is not Russian?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I know that some people, you know, think I have a mental problem by playing, you know, against Russian player, which is not true.  The problem is that all Russian player are very good players and it's not easy to beat them.  Especially when they play against me, they want to beat me because, you know, I'm one of the best.  Before the match, you realize that you play against Russian player.  But when you're on the court, your nationality doesn't change anything and you don't really think about it.  I mean, when you're on the court, it's all about the game, not about your nationality, where you're from.  
 
Q.  Did you know Vera was so emotional on the court?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, I mean, I know her very well.  We were practicing together.  We used to play doubles sometime together.  I know she's very emotional.  She can cry on the court.  But I don't think she's really into it.  She's continuing to play as good as she can.  Just the way she feel on the court sometimes.  
 
Q.  You went to watch her practice, to warm up today?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  No.  
 
Q.  Do you think Amelie is an emotional player, too?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I think she's emotional, but she doesn't show you her emotion on the court.  I'm sure she can be nervous.  She can be nervous, but she doesn't like to show you.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT