PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 27, 2004
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Is that the best you've seen Bovina play?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, I think so.  I think she was playing very well today.  She didn't give me any chance.  Her serve was great.  I couldn't do nothing really on her serve.  She was returning very well.  I think that was one of her best day. 

Q.  When she's hitting and being aggressive like that, is she one of the tougher players to have to deal with on a hard court, being aggressive, charging the net?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, I think if she going to continue to play like this, she going to be in the top very soon because she has a good game.  She was very aggressive and she put a lot of pressure on me.  It was not easy to play today. 

Q.  Were you surprised she was able to do that to you? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, I know that, I mean, she can really hit the ball.  But today she didn't give me any mistakes, you know.  She was playing very solid all the time.  You know, I was always down, and I couldn't even split the score. 

Q.  What do you think you're going to work on now with some time off until The Open starts? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, there is not much time to change something in my game.  I just need to have rest and, you know, go to New York, practice there.  I feel like I was a little bit slow today on the court, you know.  Maybe I need a little bit break before The Open. 

Q.  Double break in the second game of the second set.  Did you feel, looking back, if you would have been able to get that break, that might have changed?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, I think that game could change something.  But it was 15-40, and then she serve I think four great serves.  But this game could really change, you know, the second set, I think so. 

Q.  You were saying yesterday that your return is one of your favorite shots.  Was it discouraging for you not to be able to have any success on her serve?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, I couldn't return well.  I couldn't control my return.  Every time I play, it was short and she was going for the winner all the time.  It's very difficult to return this, you know, very high-bounce balls. 

Q.  Seems like she has it all.  Why is she not a Top 10 player like you are?  Is she just not consistent enough at this point in her career?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, I think she's not consistent.  For example, myself, I'm a tall girl like Elena.  It's not easy, you know, to stay healthy all the time because tall people, they get injured.  It's very difficult to warm up yourself and to be healthy during the year. 

Q.  I guess it's not a surprise any more when there are two Russians in the semifinals or finals of a tournament because there's so many good Russian players out there, right? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah.  I mean, every time I'm coming to a tournament now, I prepare myself that I'm going to play against Russian because there are so many of them.  There is no difference for me to play against Russian or someone else because, you know, it's really not about your nationality, it's all about the way you play. 

Q.  You drew Safina in The Open.  Not the easiest first-round match. 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, I think so, it's not the easiest one (smiling).  But, you know, when you play in a grand event, you have to be ready from the beginning of the tournament.  I know that I have to play my best to beat her in the first round. 

Q.  In this tournament you were the only player in the semifinals who is in the Top 20 in the world.  There were a lot of upsets.  Going into The Open, it seems there are so many different players who could win.  Is that just the way it is in women's tennis now, so many different players who can come through and win tournaments?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, I mean, that what happening a few years already, that everyone from Top 30 can go and win a tournament.  You know, we have much tougher competition right now.  You have to be ready from the first round.  I remember like a couple years ago, you don't have to be worried about, you know, your first rounds, and you have to play your best only in the semifinals and the final.  And right now you really need to show your best in the first round. 

Q.  Do you think that's one reason why the Williams sisters haven't been so dominant like they used to be or players don't fear them any more? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Other players, I think they're not afraid of them any more.  You know, they go on the court, they fight with them and try to win, because they lost some matches.  Usually they don't do this.  I think they're both not in their best shape right now for the moment. 

Q.  How surprised were you that Capriati lost last night to Dechy?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, but I think Nathalie was playing great tennis last night.  Jennifer didn't have enough patience.  I mean, she was returning every single ball.  It was not easy match. 

Q.  Bovina hasn't gotten as much attention as some of the other Russian players.  Does she have as much game as any of you guys?  Does she have the ability to be a Top 10?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, I think so.  I think she has a great game.  I mean, she has everything.  You know, maybe she needs just to be consistent during the year and she going to be in the Top 10. 

Q.  How tough is it for you when you have trouble serving your first service games?  You're playing a player like Bovina, it's hard to be behind right from the start. 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Right.  I mean, I feel like I'm under pressure when I play against someone with a good serve because I realize that I really need to take my serve, which is not one of my favorite shot.  You know, that sometime put me in trouble like today when I lost my first service game and then I was always down.  Not easy, you know, mental to play. 

Q.  When you first started playing, was your serve a problem, too?  Has that been something more recent that you've struggled with?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I think that I was a little bit nervous in the beginning of the match.  And that's why my serve wasn't that good.  I mean, as more as I'm playing, my serve is getting better during the match. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT