PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 26, 2004
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question for Elena, please. 


Q.  You mentioned yesterday how you usually have a slow start.  Were you happy to see today you were able to go up 3-Love quickly in the first? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, I mean, I'm very satisfied with the way I played today.  You know, last time we play I lost, so I was really preparing myself for this match.  You know, I think I start very well. 

Q.  It seemed like you were kind of just rolling through the match, then she put together four straight games.  Did anything change at that point?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, I guess when you are a set and 3-Love down, there is nothing to lose.  She was going for these, you know, unbelievable shots down the line.  She did a couple unbelievable shots, there was nothing I could do about it.  But I was staying calm and, you know, I was trying to be positive because I was doing everything right.  You know, I just finished the second set. 

Q.  To get into the semifinals here, how do you feel about that?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I feel great.  You know, it's nice to be in the semifinals.  To have chance, you know, to play against Elena tomorrow, she's a good player, so it's going to be a good fight for both of us.

Q.  Are you pretty familiar with her game?  What is it about her that's given you problems or how have you handled her in the past?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  She has a good serve and return.  But what I'm trying to do, I'm trying to move her, because she's a tall girl and I don't think she likes to move.  But, you know, she has a good backhand, good forehand, so I have to really play my good tennis to beat her tomorrow. 

Q.  Were you a little more satisfied with your serve today than you were yesterday? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, I think my serve was better today.  I did maybe one or two double-faults.  I feel like my second serve was, you know, more solid today than yesterday. 

Q.  Do you think this is the best tennis you've played in your whole career right now - not just this week, but the last three, four, five months?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I think that there's two tournaments, LA and San Diego, that I was really playing my best tennis.  I feel like this year, you know, I'm improving myself.  I hope to continue, you know, like this. 

Q.  Do you get a sense that Jankovic was getting tired towards the end?  Her last service game, she double-faulted three times. 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I don't think she was tired.  Just when you are winning four games in a row, and she had chance to made a 5-3.  Maybe she was little upset after this. 

Q.  Looking ahead to the US Open draw, how do you think the draw works out for you?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I didn't see the draw.  I can't think about two tournaments in the same week (smiling), sorry. 

Q.  It's... 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Don't tell me (laughter). 

Q.  It seems like a lot of players, when they come here, they're trying to focus on this tournament but the US Open, they're mindful of that the whole time.  You're able to block that out?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, of course it's a good preparation to be here and play before US Open.  But at the same time it's a big tournament and I really want to win here.  Every match is important to me.  I can't really select if I'm going to play my best here or next week.  I mean, when I'm on the court, I want to play my best no matter what tournament is. 

Q.  What part of the game do you think you have to work on the most?  What is the weakest link in your armory, in your own opinion?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I think the Top 10 players don't really have weakest link.  I mean, I can improve every shot that I have.  I'm not perfect in anything.  But when you play in the top, it's more about your mental.  If you are strong, if you are, you know, confident, that's the way you win.

Q.  Are you gaining confidence this year? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, I think after French Open final, it gave me lot of confidence.  But like I said, my last week, you know, wasn't so good, so I really need to win couple matches to feel confident before the big event like US Open. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT