NASDAQ-100 OPEN
April 3, 2004
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  What was your plan today? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, I was thinking to play pretty much the same game that I play against Venus.  But I feel like I was tired today on the court and couldn't move as well as I can.  So it was difficult, you know, to be on the court today for me.  But I'm satisfied with the results for this tournament, you know.  I had, you know, couple very good matches and, you know, I'm glad to be in the final.  Maybe I didn't play my best today, but, you know, I'm glad I'm lost so easy because now I'm gonna work better on my serve, I'm gonna improve my game.  I mean, she's a great player.  You know, just amazing how well she play after this break. 

Q.  You got your toss under control, but the serve's still giving you trouble. 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yes. 

Q.  What is Olga's plan to try and improve that?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  To change my toss. 

Q.  In what way? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Try to do it little bit in front of me, not behind. 

Q.  How did you develop that bad habit? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I had a problem with my shoulder and I used to play for a long time with an injured shoulder.  That kind of serve, the slice serve, that's the only thing I could do, you know.  That's just begin to be a habit for me, a bad habit.

Q.  Were you a bit nervous playing in a final? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  No, I wasn't nervous at all, you know.  I had nothing to lose, and I was already satisfied with the result.  So, you know, just a little upset that I was tired, couldn't play as good as I can. But anyway, you know, it was a good tournament for me.

Q.  You played both Williams sisters.  What's the difference in playing them? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, Serena has a better serve, definitely.  She moves better.  They play pretty much the same game, you know.  I mean, I wouldn't change my plan, you know, by playing against Venus or Serena.

Q.  Do you think Serena attacked your second serve better than Venus did? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, but, I mean, I wasn't ready for the next shot.  I couldn't move as well as I can.  That was, you know, the thing. 

Q.  Last year in Paris indoors, were you physically okay at that tournament? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Where? 

Q.  Paris last February.  Not this year, last year, when you played Mauresmo.  Were you fit for that match?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  When I was 6-love, 6-love, you mean? 

Q.  Yeah?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  No, I was injured.  But I don't like to retire.  I like to play no matter what.  Even if I have something, you know, I try to play always. 

Q.  Was it embarrassing? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  What? 

Q.  The match. 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  No.  No, it wasn't.  I mean, that's good that she beat me so easily, like I said.  Because now I'm gonna work better, you know.  I'm gonna improve my game.  You know, I realize if I want to win a tournament, even a Grand Slam, I have to be stronger, you know, I have to play better in a final and not like today.  I don't need to be tired, you know, in this final round, the most important moment of the tournament. 

Q.  What does it say if you can take eight months off and sort of breeze through? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  It's unbelievable to me, you know.  It's unbelievable.  She was, you know, very strong on the court, moving well.  She had a couple problems, you know, in the beginning of the tournament, and maybe in the second round.  But, I mean, she came through very strong and, you know, she's a great player. 

Q.  If she was playing Justine today instead of Elena, do you think her game is strong enough to have won today?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Who, Justine's game? 

Q.  No, if she was playing Justine in the final instead of you, would Serena's game be strong enough to win this tournament today?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Why are you asking me this question (laughing)?  She is not in the final. 

Q.  Just trying to get a sense of how strong you think Serena's game is right now after eight months off. 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  She has to play her to see how well she is, I don't know. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT