NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 31, 2004
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  I saw you win here when you were 18 years old.  You won here in the Orange Bowl.  I said, "She's gonna be good."  Today, the first two, three games, I said, "She can win."  How are you feeling?  Do you feel the same way? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, I really like this tournament.  I was playing couple times here, and I remember I won my Orange Bowl Under-18 here in this same court.  So I have a good memory on the center court.  So, you know, from the beginning of the match I had the feeling that, you know, I'm in good shape and I have a chance to beat her.  But she's a great player.  She's a great fighter.  So you never know until the end if you can do it or not. 

Q.  Congratulations.  Were you startled that your second serve, the last serve of the match, 63 miles an hour and she dumped it into the net?  Was that startling?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, you know, I think it was, you know, she has more difficulty on my second serve than my first serve, you know, because she has no return in her return, you know, to return this kind of serve.  No matter how good my serve is, I was trying today everything as possible to win and try to be positive on the court.

Q.  Do you often have this much trouble with your toss as well? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yes, I did have some problems with my toss today.  You know, it was little windy.  But like I said, you know, if you want to be champion, it's not about  -- it's not all about your serve, you know.  You have to win no matter what.  That's what I did today. 

Q.  You have great ground strokes, we all know that.  Do you really think you can win a Grand Slam without a more...

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  No, I don't think so.  No, I don't think so.  I'm working on my serve.  I mean, I take it seriously.  I'm trying to improve, but it's takes time.  Because if you were serving for so many years with a different motion, it takes time, you know, to change this.  That's what I'm working on.  Sometimes it works; sometimes it's not.

Q.  What were you thinking when Venus was receiving her treatment?  How did you feel about the way she played after that? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I think that, you know, it was a very difficult situation for me because it was in the middle of the game, you know, very important game.  It was 30-all on my serve and she took a really long medical break.  Then she start to play and move, you know, much better than she was playing in the first set.  So it took me few games, you know, to, you know, to come back to the game, to get my focus on the court.  You know, just play like I started to play.  I think she did everything by the rules, you know.  She can do it.  I'm not sure that she has something or not, I can't even know, you know?  But she did everything by the rules, so I was, you know, I was trying to continue to play; that's it.

Q.  How do you describe this match?  It didn't seem to have any form.  It was momentum one way, then suddenly another.  She gets off to a 3-0 lead in the final set.  You come back.  You're almost over the edge to save yourself.  Define this match somehow. 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  It was very emotional game, I mean, for both of us.  She was nervous a little bit; me too.  I think I put a lot of pressure on her serve, my return was good today.  You know, if you remember, when she was 5-4, you know, 5-3 serving, she did, you know, couple mistakes.  So, you know, it was a very difficult, long, but I think interesting match.

Q.  You said you weren't sure whether she had an injury or not.  Did you think, "Well, the injury is not real"? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I said I can't know if she has something or not, you know.  Her face was that she has like a very painful something, you know.  And then she started to move very well.  I don't know if you saw the match, you can tell so.  I don't know.  She is a fighter, you know.  Maybe she has something, but she gonna play till the end no matter what.

Q.  Why do you think in the end that this match went your way?  What was the difference?  It seemed so close and like you said, going up and down. 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  But I think, you know, it was little bit easy to play  -- for me to play against her.  There is nothing to lose for me.  Even in the tiebreak, I was enjoying myself.  I wasn't thinking about score, I wasn't thinking about semifinals of this tournament.  I was trying, you know, to play my games and to win.  That's it. 

Q.  Her forehand suddenly came back in the third set. 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yes. 

Q.  Looked like you both had some great rallies, some long rallies.  Did you change your tactics when she started to hit your forehand better? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I was trying not to move her too much because I know when she moving, she's good.  So I was playing a lot, you know, to the body.  I was trying to serve to the body.  That's really worked today. 

Q.  How about when she had those double-faults?  She's serving for the match, three double-faults in a row.  Was that surprising to you?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  No, I just said to myself, "She's just like you, you know.  She can be nervous (laughter)." 

Q.  Made her more human, huh?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah (laughing).

Q.  Never say thank you for the gifts in tennis?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  During the match? 

Q.  Well, after. 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Not to her.  To my mom and my coach (smiling).

Q.  Did you think you might lose today? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I wasn't thinking about this. 

Q.  5-3 serving?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  No, I wasn't thinking.  I wasn't thinking about this, you know.  I was really enjoying myself today on the court.

Q.  Do you recall saving a matchpoint in such a big tournament? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  It was easy one, you know, we didn't have such a long rally during the matchpoint. 

Q.  It was very brief. 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah.

Q.  Had you ever done it before in a tournament, saved matchpoint?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, first time I won my tournament in Amelia Island last year, I saved a matchpoint against Justine Henin in semifinals.

Q.  It can now be Russian versus Russian in the semifinals?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, can be, can be.

Q.  When is the last time you played Nadia?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Last time I played Nadia was in Zurich last year, indoor tournament, and I lost.  She's a good player, she has a great serve, great first serve.  She moves very well.  She's the same age with me.  So it's always interesting to play against her.  It's going to be a tough one for me.

Q.  Will she try to attack your second serve?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Oh, sure, yeah. 

Q.  You travel with your mom.  Can you talk about her role as your mother and what she brings to your travel and then whatever else you might take in as a coach, trainer. 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  She's a great support for me.  She's the one, you know, I'm playing for.  She really wants me to play.  I am very happy that she is here with me and she's helping me.  I realize that I couldn't, you know, go so far without her.  So I'm really happy to have someone like her with me all the time.

Q.  Does she take an involvement in the actual coaching or training?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I have a coach with me as well, Olga Morozova is working with me, so there are two of us.

Q.  She's involved?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Right, yes. 

Q.  What are your memories of that Orange Bowl?  What do you remember about being a junior here? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  It was the first time that we play on this stadium because Under-16 and Under-18, we play in different site.  It was the clay courts, I think.  I remember it was a great feeling.  I won, and Roger Federer won his first Orange Bowl title.  So we had this very, very nice cup with oranges.  You know, had a really nice memory of this tournament. 

Q.  Is Olga with you traveling or you're working someplace?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  We start to work in the end of the last year in Moscow.  Now she's traveling with me.

Q.  She's here?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  She's here, yes. 

Q.  So how does that change your mother's role? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I mean, there is no change.  She's with me.  She is the main person for me no matter who's coaching me.  I'm always happy to hear her advice.  You know, she's my mom (smiling).

Q.  Do you go shopping and do all that mother-daughter stuff together?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  We do a lot of stuff together where we're not just mom and daughter, we're good friends.

Q.  Olga was a serve-and-volley player. 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Right, yeah.  She can't see me play like that (laughing). 

Q.  Does she become angry with you when you serve like this?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yes.  I'm gonna have a tough conversation after this second serve, you know, today.  Probably I'm gonna have little practice this afternoon with her...   But I don't want to (smiling).

Q.  What will she say about your serving today? 

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  She said that I was serving much better on my practice in Moscow  - much better. 

Q.  Is that what she said?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yes (smiling). 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT