PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 22, 2003
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Seemed to have a lot of trouble with your first serve today, getting it in. 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  No, actually I think my serve wasn't too bad, you know.  I feel like I play not bad today, but she was just better.  Sometimes I just had the moment, you know, to turn around the game, couldn't make it.  I mean, she was serving very well today.  It was very tough to return - especially her first serve.  You know, she was playing very long and heavy.  Sometimes she was just, you know, touching the baseline.  So it was, you know, tough to play against her today.  
 
Q.  Is that the toughest you remember her being in a match?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, I think she's in a very good shape right now.  You know, her serve is much, much better now. 
 
Q.  How tough is it when it's that hot out, when you lose the first set, you know to win the match, you'll be out there for a long time?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, but during the match you just don't think about how long you're going to stay there.  You just try to concentrate and play every single point, you know.  You know, yeah, it was very warm.  But, you know, I think it was a little better than yesterday (laughter). 
 
Q.  Venus Williams has withdrawn from The Open.  Can you comment on that?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I didn't hear this.  
 
Q.  Just half an hour ago. 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I mean, she didn't play anything since Wimbledon, so I suppose she has some injuries or something.  I'm not surprised with this. 
 
Q.  You've beaten her three of the last four times you played.  What particular part of her game, if any, has improved since Amelia Island, for example?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Like I said, her serve.  When she play, I mean, sometimes you can see where she going to, you know, put the ball.  But it just, you know, very heavy and long.  Sometimes even if you know where the ball is going, is difficult, you know, to play.  I think that for me it's better to play her on clay courts actually.  
 
Q.  If Lindsay continues to play like this, now with Venus being out, do you see Lindsay as possibly the odds-on favorite at The Open now? 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, I think so.  I think she has good chances to win because she's in great shape.  Since Williams sisters are not playing, you know...  Clijsters and Justine are going to be tthere, a lot of good players. That's a long way to go.  It's a very big draw.  You never know what's happen and how she's going to feel. 
 
Q.  You lost today, had a good couple of weeks, couple of semifinals.  You must be pleased with that running into The Open?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Right, I'm very glad to have this experience to play two semis before The Open.  It's just very good preparation for me.  You know, even if I lost today, you know, I think I was doing the right thing on the court.  
 
Q.  Seems like you were going for a lot of winners today.  Do you consciously try to keep the points short when it's this hot?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, I was trying to hit the ball as hard as I can because I know there is no other way to play against Lindsay.  You have to go for the winners.  Unfortunately, my forehand wasn't there today, so that was, you know, I think the problem.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT