NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 26, 2002
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. After the first set, it was kind of an error-filled first set.  Did you feel like you were in control at that point?  Did you feel like anything could happen from that point on?  
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I think it was a good tactic for me.  I was trying not to give her a chance to move very much around the court because she likes this way, the way, you know, to move and play the good winners.  So I was trying to play on her, you know, serve on the body.  And I think it was a good tactic, and I did it good.  
 
Q.  How hard was it to come back today after that match yesterday that went so long and was so emotionally draining, I'm sure? 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, it was a crazy match yesterday.  I never had so many matchpoints against me.  And was tough match.  I think the schedule, it's not good enough.  Because, you know, the tournaments, it's two-weeks tournament.  I play four matches in a row every day.  Now, I mean, she has a break and I don't.  But I think, you know, I play not so bad today and I was moving well.  After the match I had before.  
 
Q.  Do you feel like she changed her game?  First set it seemed like she was going for everything.  Do you feel she changed her game in the last two sets? 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, I think she start to play, you know, not so powerful, just put it in.  And, you know, she start to control the game.  But, you know, I did a lot of, you know, unforced errors and my serve, as usual, wasn't good enough.  
 
Q.  Is that where she's kind of changed a little bit?  She's not always trying to out-slug the opponent, but she's giving more thought to what strategy she's using? 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I don't know.  But against me, she's always, you know, in the beginning trying to hit very hard.  And then if it doesn't go this way, she change it all the time and try to find a way to win.  She doesn't play, you know, always the same tennis.  
 
Q.  What happened in the third set?  I mean, first three games I think you held at love twice.  2-1, it seemed like it got cold and cloudy.  Venus kind of cruised from there.  Was it something that changed for you on the court? 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, I think it's strange, but I think she doesn't like to play when it's hot.  When, you know, when it's  -- at the beginning of the third set, it was so cloudy.  It looks like she start to feel much better then.  And, you know, it was a very bad moment for me when it was 40-love and I could make it 4-3 but I didn't.  I think that that was the wrong game for me. 
 
Q.  There was also a big point there when she broke you finally.  You had a sitter at the net, remember that one? 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, I think too much desire.  Too much desire to win.  
 
Q.  You tried to overhit it? 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah.  
 
Q.  You won 4 of 14 break points today.  Was that very disappointing? 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, I didn't think about it during the match.  I was trying to play every point.  When you play against such a great, you know, player like Venus, you know, she is very powerful.  So sometimes I did, you know, some good shots and sometimes just very disappointed, you know. 
 
Q.  Do you feel like you're back from  -- last year you had a great tournament here.  Then you got hurt in Amelia.  You never really got it back.  Do you feel like, finally your foot's okay and you can resume from where you took off last year?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, I feel good.  My foot is much better.  I didn't plan to go to Amelia this time because, you know, because the thing happened with me last year.  But I will play, you know, because I feel good.  So we'll see what happens with me in the next week. 
 
Q.  Are you superstitious? 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  (Smiling).  
 
Q.  So who do you pick in a  -- I know Serena has to play Hingis tonight.  If the Williams girls go Friday in the semis, who do you pick: Venus or Serena? 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I prefer to see Martina on the final.  
 
Q.  Why is that? 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I just like to watch her.  
 
Q.  You like to watch her? 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yep.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT