PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 8, 2002
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  So how do you feel you played today?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  At the beginning, I didn't play, you know, very well.  It was very early match, 10:00.  I couldn't wake up today.  I think she played very well.  The last time we played together, I lost.  I think she's, you know, some kind of inconvenient player for me so I'm glad to win today. 
 
Q.  Why is that, she's an inconvenient player for you?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  She's playing different.  She play very fast.  You know, sometimes I just can't understand which way the ball is going, you know. 
 
Q.  Can you talk about your year a little bit, how you feel you've played overall since the beginning of the year?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I think I play not so bad at Australian Open.  But this match against Justine, it was, you know, so unfortunate.  I couldn't find the rhythm, do anything on the court.  But I felt I was in good shape.  I didn't play so many tournament because I was sick, couldn't continue to play in Paris, Gaz de France.  You know, looking forward to these tournament in USA. 
 
Q.  You lost in the semifinals last week against Suarez. 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Right. 
 
Q.  How did that go? 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, it was a good match.  I just came from Moscow.  I was practicing there indoor, so it was very tough for me.  It was my first tournament outdoor, clay courts.  She's pretty much clay court player.  I think she played good against me. 
 
Q.  What do you expect out of yourself this year?  You've been deep in Grand Slams before, you're an Olympic silver medalist, been in the Top 10.  Do you see yourself going into the Top  5 this year or do you have different goals?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Actually, the goal for this here is to win a tournament.  You know, but I'm just, you know, hope not to have so many injury that I had last year.  I feel like I play better now.  
 
Q.  Why is it just to win a tournament?  Do you think you need that for your confidence before you do other big things?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I think it's a great thing, you know, to have a title in your career.  That's I think the most, you know, important thing for you to feel like No. 1, even for the week.  
 
Q.  Again, you feel like you need that for your confidence when you go up against very good players, that you've had a title and you won a close match, all of that?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, that's right.  
 
Q.  Have you ever hit with Maria Sharapova?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  No.  I don't know her. 
 
Q.  Are you surprised with the success you had two years ago that you haven't won a title yet?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I'm not surprised.  I mean, it's unfortunate for me.  
 
Q.  Talk a little bit about technically your game, forehand, backhand, what's going well and what isn't going so well. 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I hope, you know, everything is going well here.  But, you know, sometimes, you know, when you play it's too much emotion on the court and you cannot, you know, do your favorite shot.  You know, but I feel good, physically and mentally.  I think my serve is a little better than last year.  Just, as usual, I worked on my volleys, so I'll try to go to the net. 
 
Q.  Do you find yourself playing more defensively now that you've been on the tour for a couple years or do you still think being a very offensive player is what works for you?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, I'm just try to play aggressive.  But, you know, when I start to play aggressive, in the beginning, I do so many, you know, unforced errors.  That's what makes me defensive and make me wait for the fault.  I don't like to play this way.  I will try to do everything is possible to come back the game I play before. 
 
Q.  You make the point that sometimes there is too much emotion on the court, and you cannot hit your favorite shot.  What are you doing to be less emotional?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Nothing.  That's the game about, you know.  The people wants to see emotion on the court.  You know, I think that's the thing, you know. 
 
Q.  That's life, huh?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah. 
 
Q.  Are you going to be playing Fed Cup this year?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yes, I want to play, as usually.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT