AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2010
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. HENIN/E. Dementieva
  7-5, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How disappointing a loss is that?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Oh, for sure there is nothing good about leaving the tournament in the first week. You know, I feel like, you know, I was in a good shape coming here. You know, it is disappointing.   
  
  Q. Were you really crossed when you saw your draw, saw what bad luck it was to have to face Justine in the second round?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: No, I don't take it as a bad luck. There is never an easy draw.   
 I came here not to pass the second round; I came here to be in the final. You have to be ready facing Justine if you want to win the whole title. So I don't take it as a bad draw.   
  
  Q. How did you find her on the court today?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I think she was playing very well. You know, she was moving well, hitting hard. You know, just doesn't feel like she had the break.   
 Yeah, she was playing very well today.   
  
  Q. Did you feel like she was playing the same as the last time you played her?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I don't actually remember. It was long time ago. But she was as good as she was before.   
  
  Q. You had a chance to get back into the match late, a few chances. In the tiebreak, you perhaps picked a shot which wasn't the best choice. It was a volley which hit the net. Would you play that shot again if you had the chance?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, it's not about just one point. I think I just let her play that aggressively today. You know, I was not playing deep enough. So I just let her dictate the whole game. That's not the way I was planning to go, you know, on the court.   
 I feel like I was not aggressive enough. I was not playing deep enough. You know, if you look at the statistic, I was not able to make a winners, which I usually do.   
 I mean, she was playing well. But I feel like I gave her the opportunity to play that well.   
  
  Q. Is she in a way maybe a little bit intimidating in the way she puts pressure on you?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: No, I don't feel any pressure playing against her. Well, I just think it's really interesting to play against someone like her. She's a great player. Playing against her, you really can learn a lot and improve your game.   
 I really need these kind of players to increase the level of the game. So it's great to have her back here on the tour.   
  
  Q. After the disappointment, what could you learn from her or this game?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, for sure, I'm going to take a DVD and watch again where I was not aggressive enough, just to see some moments of the match. I was at lead in the first and second set. I had some opportunity that I could really take it today.   
 I mean, for sure, there are a lot of things to learn about.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT