WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS - DOHA 2010
October 28, 2010
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. DEMENTIEVA/S. Stosur
  4-6, 6-4, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You play strong match. Tell us about this game.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I think it was a very physical game for both of us. I had a very slow start, and I was 4-1 down in the beginning. It was very difficult to play after I lost to Caroline. It was not a good experience for me.   
 So I was trying to fight for every point, trying to get into the rhythm of the game. I feel in the second and the third set I started to play a better game, I really improved.  
 Yeah, it feels great to win in the end.   
  
  Q. Your preparations for the second game, what do you expect?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: You mean for the next one?   
  
  Q. Yeah.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah, I expect a tough match against Francesca. I think she's having a great season winning French Open this year, and she has a very different style of the game, a little bit similar to Samantha, lots of, you know, kick serve, lots of spin.  
 So I'm just trying right now to have a good recovery after such a long match and get ready for the next one.  
  
  Q. Do you have any expectations who will be the winner?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think we all have expectations to deal with, but for the moment I'm just really enjoying every match I'm playing here. For sure tomorrow I would like to play my best.   
  
  Q. You play twice with Stosur this year, and probably two of the best match of the year. What's special when you play?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: The longest, you mean.  
  
  Q. The longest and also the best.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: (Laughing.) I think everybody think that I like to play 7-6 in the third, but I hate it. No, bu I think it was a great fight. It's a not easy to have a break against her because of her serve.   
 But I like to return. Every time I had the chance and the second serve, was trying to push into the backhand, trying go to the net and finish the point.  
 For the most part of the game it was working well. Yeah, it was very physical in the end. But I think I had a very good start of the tiebreak and I was able to finish to this time.   
  
  Q. The last part of the third set you were stretching a bit. Cramping?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I had a little cramping in the end of the game. We had lots of long rallies, and I think we were lucky to play in this kind of weather. The humidity level was chopped a lot since we came here.   
 Even with the temperature still pretty high, I think it was one of the nicest days so far.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT