MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 15, 2010
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. DEMENTIEVA/S. Williams
  6-3, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Congratulations, firstly.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Thank you.  
  
  Q. Talk about how satisfying it is for you.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I'm very satisfied the way I was playing today and the whole week. That's what I was really looking for coming here in Sydney, just playing aggressively and playing with a lot of pressure.   
 You know, it's just great to have a chance to play against the best players in the world this week, especially coming, you know, to the Grand Slam.   
 So hopefully, you know, it was a great experience, and it's gonna help me next week.  
  
  Q. How much of a confidence boost is it to you leading into the Open?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: For sure such a big win gives you a lot of confidence. When it comes to the Grand Slam, it's gonna a new challenge and I have to be ready and recover from this week and be ready from the first round.  
  
  Q. Last year you played six times and won three and Serena won three. Do you think you're getting closer, or do you feel like your game is not far away from need to be after beating someone like Serena?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, you know, playing against Serena every time is different. We had some tough matches, especially in Wimbledon, and very close ones. For sure the more you play the more you get to know each other and you kind of know what to expect, but it's never easy.  
 So I was expecting a tough match today, and even the score is 6-3, 6-2, but it doesn't show how tense it was on the court.   
 So it was a tough match.  
  
  Q. Did you see her hobbling around on the leg a couple times in the first set, the left knee strapping?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, think everyone has something to deal with, yeah.   
  
  Q. Have you seen your draw?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yes, I did.  
  
  Q. So if you beat Dushevina you could play against Justine Henin. What is your feeling about that?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, first of all, I have to win my first round; she needs to win hers.   
 You know, just right now just want to enjoy the moment of winning Sydney and take one day off and just get ready for Melbourne.   
 I feel I had a good preparation here, and I just want to keep the good form coming into the next week.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT