SONY ERICSSON CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 27, 2009
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







E. DEMENTIEVA/V. Williams
  3-6, 7-6, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Elena, please. 

 Q. Great comeback after you lost the first set. What was the turning point or the key? You committed 15 unforced errors. 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yes, I feel like I did a lot of unforced errors, especially double-faults. But, you know, I was trying to fight for every point. I was trying to stay positive. And I feel like before the match I said to myself, I need a good start, you know, because she has a great serve, she has a very powerful baseline game. So I really need to get to the game as soon as possible. 
 I lost the first set very easily and I was down in the second set. Yeah, it was very important to come back and to win this tiebreak. So I think she was a little bit disappointed in the beginning of the third set, gave me a little bit of an advantage, and I was able to finish the match. 

 Q. After a poor start, you controlled the game. What was the turning point?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: You know, last time I beat her was a long time ago. I lost six times in a row against Venus. This time I was trying to play a little bit different because I think she likes the way I play. You know, she feels very comfortable playing in the baseline, you know, just feels very comfortable with me. 
 So today I was trying to, you know, not hit very hard. I was trying to mix it up a lot, some slices, some dropshots. I was trying to put her on the move. It feels like it's really worked today. 

 Q. This is your third win over Venus, first one since Miami 2004. 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yes, I know. 

 Q. What do you feel about it?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I know. Especially after last match we played in Stanford, I lost 6-Love, 6-1, gosh, I didn't like this match (laughter). I was feeling so miserable on the court. I was really looking forward to play against Venus one more time. You know, just happy to win. 

 Q. You say 'one more time.' Do you kind of sense she's not quite the player she was a few even months ago?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, every match you play it's different game. You feel different way. You know, it's a different surface, different country. It's all a fact of the game. You know, every time you're on the court, you're trying to play at your best, trying to, you know, create something. But sometimes it works, sometimes it's not, so... 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT