WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS - DOHA 2010
October 26, 2010
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/E. Dementieva
  6-1, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How is your ankle? Having problems? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: No, my ankle is much better. I think the fact that I was not able to practice for a couple of days because I really needed to rest it, you know, really affected the way I was moving today.
 I feel I was really affected by the weather conditions. I was going for the wrong shots all the time. Usually it's not happening to me very often. 
 But, yeah, I'm sure I will play better next match. It was, you know, quite tough experience today. Caroline played very solid, as usually she does this season.
 For me, it was not a good match. 

 Q. The weather condition are different before today or not? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Excuse me? 

 Q. The weather was different last days, or same? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I feel it's been very hot and humid the whole week, since my first day here.
 It's really difficult, because in this kind of humidity, you just lose your concentration very quickly. It's very difficult to stay focused during the match. 
 But, I mean, it's tough for everyone. I have to -- like I said, today was a bad experience. I'm going to learn from that and play a better match next round. 

 Q. You play a lot of dropshots. It was your game plan or just a choice in this moment?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think I wanted to take her from the comfort zone. She's feeling very solid at the baseline. For sure it was not a very good selection of shots to do it every single point. 
 Yeah, I just feel like I was not focused on the game today. I could not provide anything better than that. 

 Q. You said weather conditions were tough here. Is that the key of who's going to win the tournament, who's the best to cope with that? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, to be honest, I feel there are two favorites during this tournament: Caroline and Kim, because they both are in a great shape. Kim, she's the one -- she won Cincinnati this season playing pretty much the same conditions, so she knows how to deal with the heat and humidity.
 So for the rest it will be very tough to compete against them.

 Q. But it's not the first time you competed here, so you must be sort of used to the heat here. 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think when it comes to such a hot temperature and the humidity level, it's very hard to get used to it. There is no way you can get used to it. It's just a combination that's killing you. 
 So you just have to be strong, be tough on the court, and try to play as focused as you can. 

 Q. Is this a new style of serving?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I used to serve this way for quite long time already. This is a new motion that I'm using for this season. 

 Q. Next match is Francesca Schiavone. Do you think you are ready to play against her? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, we play couple of times before and we know what to expect. Once again, it's going to be all about mental preparation and physical preparation for that match. 
 I think we're all going to be struggling in these conditions. I know she's physically very fit and she moves well, so it's going to be a tough match for me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT