ROGERS CUP
August 22, 2009
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. DEMENTIEVA/S. Williams
  7-6, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You spoke yesterday about how playing on a hardcourt was going to be a different story for you than when you played Venus at Wimbledon. Did you feel like things played out the way you thought they would? What is it about playing on the hardcourt that gives you the advantage that you seem to have over her since you played so well against her?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I didn't play Venus; I played Serena.  
  
  Q. Apologies.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I just think that both Williams sisters feel very comfortable playing on grass, for some reason. It seems like this is their favorite surface to play.  
 Well, I like to play on hard. This is my favorite surface. I feel like my movement is very well here.   
 Yeah, I mean, I was really waiting for this match after Wimbledon, because always very interesting to play against Serena, and especially looking for revenge after Wimbledon. I think I was very positive today on the court and just very satisfied the way I was playing.  
  
  Q. What about playing Serena at a Slam versus a non-Slam? Is there a difference?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think Serena has a great experience of winning so many Grand Slam titles, and it seems like she knows how to increase her level of the game during the Grand Slams.  
 So it's never easy to play her any tournament, but especially in the Grand Slam. When it comes to the semifinal or to the final, it looks like she can produce, you know, the best of her game, and this is what makes her, you know, such a tough opponent.  
  
  Q. Knowing that, does your mindset also change?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: No, I just -- no matter if I'm playing Grand Slam or just another tournament, I'm expecting a tough match against her. I realize that I have to play my best; otherwise I'm going to be out. It's always tough, but it's always very interesting.  
  
  Q. Your aggression level today seemed to be up. I definitely could be wrong, but it looked like you were taking the ball a little bit earlier and moving forward into the court with more confidence. You also have this shot that I've noticed that -- I haven't noticed it too much before, but a real whipping forehand. Can you comment on any of those things?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yes, I was watching my match against Samantha last night, and I was not happy the way I was playing, because I think I had a very slow reaction. I didn't react as quick as I needed to be.   
 Today coming to this match I was trying to get ready for the ball earlier, trying to be very aggressive with my foot, to get ready for the ball, because that's the only way to beat her.  
 So I was trying to be very aggressive from the beginning of the game, and you know, I was able to do this.  
  
  Q. So is that one shot you have where you pull the racquet real quickly across your body instead of the long, is that...   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I was trying to accelerate the racquet head as quick as I can. I know how well she can move, and she has a great reaction. So against her, you're willing it to take a little bit of risk and go for the winners. This is what I was trying to do.  
  
  Q. You must feel so much confidence against her and her sister with your vastly improved serve, serving the way you do now. Would that be the case?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah. I mean, today even without serving very fast, you know, the percentage of the first serve was quite high, and for sure it gives you a lot of confidence in the service game. Especially with Serena, you know how close she's in the court trying to return your second serve and put a lot of pressure on you.  
 So I was trying to put my first serve in, you know, get to the point, and you know, this has really worked.  
  
  Q. Would you ever believe in a tiebreak you would win all five points on her serve?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, when it comes to the tiebreak, you just take one point at a time, you know. It's not about who is serving, because it's only two serves each.   
 So you're really trying to get to the point, be aggressive and -- well, I didn't think about this score at all. I was trying to play every single ball. I was trying to fight for every ball, and that's the way to win.  
  
  Q. You've been playing really well now for the last month. Do you feel your game is where you'd like it to be heading into the US Open?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, you never know. I feel like I had a lot of good matches playing in the US Open series over the past three weeks, and I hope it's going to be a good preparation for US Open.   
 But right now I just want to focus on my final tomorrow. Very excited about this final in Toronto and, yeah, we'll see.   
  
  Q. When you were down 5-3 in the first set and she was serving for the set, did you think you were in trouble or did you feel okay about where you were?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, for sure I was in trouble. (laughter.)  
Q. Did you feel like she was outplaying you, or did you feel the game wasn't going your way at that point?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think I had opportunity to win this game on my serve when it was 3-All. I missed a couple of easy shots and, well, maybe overplayed her.   
 But, I mean, I was trying to just, you know, make a winner even from the second serve and -- well, in the past I had a good experience of breaking her a couple of times before, so I was just trying to stay very positive.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT