ROGERS CUP
August 19, 2009
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. DEMENTIEVA/A. Sugiyama
  6-3, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. More pleasant to play in that kind of weather than a few days ago?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, yes, it was nice, actually, and it was not too windy, so I was really, you know, enjoying my time on the court, especially after coming from Cincinnati when it was a very tough weather condition. So yeah, it was a good day.  
  
  Q. What kind of a weather player do you consider yourself? Do you consider on a hot day of the year an advantage over your opponent most of the time or a disadvantage?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, we used to play in the summer heat, you know, all year long, so I think when it's hot, it's hot for everyone. So I'm just trying to think that I'm not the only one who is struggling with the weather conditions. Just, you know, trying to do as best as I can every single day.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like it's hot? Because you're so -- I mean, every day you go to work. You're playing in the hot sun all over the world, so do you even notice it?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think it's important when it's hot, you know, to try to play very aggressively. You know, winning in two sets always good, save some energy for the next round, because if you're trying to go all the way, it's really important, and I mean, this is a key.  
  
  Q. A lot of the top seeds have dropped out very early in this tournament. Your thoughts on that, the upsets?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, it's really surprising. I think, you know, maybe after playing in Cincinnati, you know, especially for Dinara being in the final, it's kind of hard to play your first match.   
 You know, it's never easy, especially if you look at the draw, it's a very tough draw, lots of good first-round matches. So you have to be ready physically and mentally for the fight, you know, from the beginning of the tournament.   
  
  Q. This off topic a bit, but this tournament is thinking of switching formats in two years' time. One idea they have is that half of the men and half of the women will play in Toronto for a week and half of the men and half of the women will play in Montreal for the same week.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: And face each other in Moscow? (laughter.)  
  
  Q. And then fly to the other city for the final on Sunday.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Really?   
  
  Q. What do you think of that idea?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Oh, my gosh. What an idea.   
 Well, it sounds like fun. I don't think it's real. It would be too difficult, too complicated.  
  
  Q. Do you know Dinara very well?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yes.  
  
  Q. I mean, when she was here after her match, she was very upset and very hard on herself, you know, like really criticizing different parts of her game. Is that maybe an obstacle for her? Maybe she is too hard on herself maybe?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think she's a very -- you know, she's very opposite to Marat. She's very disciplined. She works very hard, and you know, she's maybe a little bit too hard on herself. She's trying to be perfect every single day, every single match that she play.   
 And this is impossible, you know. But as the No. 1, it's a lot of pressure, I guess. I think she's handled the No. 1 position pretty good.  
 But still, you know, it's going to be some bad days, and you have to, you know, try to handle it, not to push yourself down and, you know, just take it as an experience. Well, she's still pretty young. I'm sure she will find out the way.  
  
  Q. What is your take on Sugiyama's game today?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I know her very well. We used to play doubles together. So I knew exactly what to expect today in the match, so I was trying not to stand at crosscourt, because I know she's an incredible doubles player and this is her favorite shot to make. I was trying to move around the court, and you know, looks like I was able to do this.  
  
  Q. You had the tough match with Venus in the semifinal in Stanford and she played very well.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: It was not a tough match.  
  
  Q. But I mean then she plays not very well the next day, and then she loses to Pennetta last week, and then plays terrible yesterday. Maybe you bring out the best in her. I don't know.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, the way she was playing in Stanford, it was like, What I am doing here? There is no I'm going to beat her.   
 And, you know, playing not so well in Cincinnati -- well, I guess, sometimes you feel like you're playing at your best, but how long you can be at your best, you know, like a week, two weeks in a row.   
 But it's really about playing your schedule and trying to get to the best shape for the US Open, which is the most important tournament. Sometimes, you know, you can plan, but anything can happen.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT