WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP WOMEN'S OPEN
August 14, 2009
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







E. DEMENTIEVA/C. Wozniacki
  6-2, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Your thoughts on your win today? Seemed like you were doing really well with both your serve and service returns. You broke seven times today. 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah, we had difficult time holding serve in the beginning of the match. There was so many breaks. As soon as I was able to hold my serve, I started to play more confident. 
 Just satisfied the way I was playing the whole match. Played some tough matches against her in the past. I think the tactic for today's match was different for me. I was trying to stay aggressive and not play backhand crosscourt all the time, you know, trying to mix it up, and it really worked.

 Q. How much easier was that match than the other ones you played against her? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I wouldn't call this easy match. We always play in three sets. Even that I won match in the finals of Luxembourg it was 7-6 in the third. We always have lots of fun. She's a very solid baseline player, so it's never easy to play against her. 

 Q. You seem like you were just placing the ball really well and she was struggling on the other end. Were you surprised at the difference?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I think it was really hot out there. I was trying to move her a lot. You know, when I was in the lead in the first set, it seems like she was a little bit upset. Couldn't really stay in the long rallies with me. 

 Q. What are your thoughts of Cincinnati so far in your first visit? Have you gone anywhere outside the tennis center, or just working hard practicing and playing matches?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, we never had a chance to go and look at the city. We went to downtown once. I wish I had time to go to King's Island, but for sure my coach will go there because I am in the semifinals. That means that he needs to go there and take a ride on a roller coaster. That was the deal for this week.
 I just wish I go there after the tournament. 

 Q. So if you made the semis he had to go...
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah, I think this is tradition for everyone's coach.

 Q. When you get this far in the tournament, how important does winning the tournament become?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, just, you know, I know it's gonna be a tough match. Talking about semifinals. Not thinking about the title, but I'm thinking -- just more focused on my next round here. 
 Just want to, you know, have a good one, play some good tennis, and let's see if I can do it. 

 Q. Could you please evaluate Caroline's second serve? Is her second serve weak?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I was trying to stay close to the baseline and just take advantage of the second serve and get aggressive on this one. Just take the opportunity and step forward and just make a winner. 
 Because, you know, the weather condition was pretty tough, and I didn't want to waste any time just going straight for the winner. It worked today.

 Q. She beat you twice lately in Miami and Charleston. Did you play a little bit different strategy this time, or it was better execution of same strategy?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, it's always very interesting to play against somebody that you just lost, especially twice in a row. I think this time I was more aggressive. You know, I was more positive on the court, playing really deep in the baseline. Seems like she didn't like it.

 Q. Are you surprised by the results of the tournament so far? For example, the departure of the Williams sisters from the tournament?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, look, it's a tough draw for everyone. Everyone is ready and hungry on the courts, so you really have to play at your best even if you're like playing like round of 16, quarterfinal, you really have to be ready for some good tennis. 
 I think yesterday it was surprising to see both Williams losing in one day. I've never seen this before. But I think, you know, Flavia and Sybille Bammer played really well yesterday.

 Q. Did you think that Kim Clijsters can win this tournament? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think Kim is very impressive with her comeback she is playing really well, especially for the first tournament.
 When I look at her, I just don't feel like it was two years' break for her. Yeah, I mean, it's been very impressive so far. Yeah. 

 Q. What do you think about your serve today? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think in the beginning of the game, you know, I couldn't -- you know, I had a bad start starting with two double faults. The percentage of first serve was not very high, so I need to work on had one for the next round. 
 You know, I think it was a little bit better in the second set, but still need to be work. 

 End of FastScripts 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT