WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP WOMEN'S OPEN
August 13, 2009
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







E. DEMENTIEVA/S. Cirstea
  6-4, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How do you feel about your match today?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, it was a pretty tough condition out there. It was pretty hot, so I was trying to stay positive. 
 I mean, it was a difficult match to play because of the condition. I'm glad I was able to win in two sets and save some energy for the next round.

 Q. The heat really getting to you guys out there?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah, just like in the second set you start to feel a little fatigue and it's very easy to lose your concentration, so it's important to play every single point and just stay in the game.

 Q. Are you a little more aggressive when it's hot like this so you can get the game over?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah, you're looking for some cheap points and trying to make a winner and take a risk and go to the net. You don't want to play a long time in this kind of condition.

 Q. Moving ahead, how are you feeling?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I expect a tough match against Caroline Wozniacki. You know, I played couple times against her and lost twice the last two rounds. 
 It will a tough match, but I really want to try one more time against her.

 Q. Towards the end of your match you were having trouble with your serve. You had a couple double faults. Couldn't put it away. What was going through your head then?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah, I know I was up and down in my serve and couldn't really put the second serve in when it was a match point. I really wanted to close the match, but I just think I was rushing too much and didn't take enough time to get really focused and put the serve in.

 Q. When that happens, do you ever think that it's opening the door for like Sorana to come in?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah, I mean, I just really gave her a chance to think that she can come back. You know, I think she started to play more positive and more aggressively on my serve. 
 But I'm just glad I was able to get through this game. 

 Q. How are you feeling overall? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think, you know, it was a good match, good fight, even though on the last game I couldn't close the match. But it's always good to feel the fight.
 And to get ready for the next round, I realize I need to improve the game and play better if I want to win the next match. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT