WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP WOMEN'S OPEN
August 12, 2009
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







E. DEMENTIEVA/Y. Wickmayer
  6-3, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. You had a pretty straightforward match today. Was there anything that worked well for you or that you need to work on for your game?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, it was the first match for me. You know, I was really excited to play against her. We never played before, so it was our first meeting. 
 I think it was actually, you know, a tough first-round match for me. She was playing very well and just think she has really lots of talent. I did expect a tough match against her. I was watching her, and she beat Francesca Schiavone in the first round. 
 So, yeah, I'm satisfied with the result today. 

 Q. I know you played last week, but it's been a few weeks since Wimbledon. How long did it take you to recover? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: You know, I'm very surprised, because people think that it was such a drama for me. I just really take this match as a great experience. I was very happy the way I was playing. I know I had a lot of chances and I was leading the whole way.
 But overall, even the match point, I feel it was a great performance for me. I'm really trying to take very positive things from this match and remember it as one of the best in my career.

 Q. So it didn't take long at all? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, actually, maybe I'm not ready to watch it again. I took my DVD from Wimbledon, but I never really had a desire to go and watch one more time. I'm sure I will do in the future. 

 Q. What about Kim's return here? What do you think about that?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: You know, we did expect her to come to Stanford. I was like, oh, maybe it's just a rumor. She's not coming back. It was very nice to see her back. 
 I was watching her on practice with Svetlana Kuznetsova, and I was really surprised how well she was playing. Her first round against Marion and today's match, it's unbelievable. 
 You know, well, she is a great champion. Even after two years' break, she's here and ready to play.

 Q. What would you say to those people that say that her return is great for the women's game because the women's game needed a boost or savior? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think she's still pretty young, you know. Even with two years' break, she's -- how old is she? 

 Q. 26. 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I mean, she has plenty of time. She has like five years to play. Actually, I'm not surprised to see her back. I did expect her to come back, because she's a very athletic person. 
 For her, it's not been a problem, you know, physical condition. So as long as she feels like she wants to play and she needs the game, I mean, here she is. She's ready to play and ready to compete. We can see she really enjoys it.

 Q. Did you think the women's game needed her to come back? Needed someone or something like that? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I'm sure that all the tennis fans are very happy to see her back, because she's one of the nicest girls on the tour and great champion. I think it's a great example for people. 

 Q. How important is your play in Cincinnati this week in getting you prepared and focused for the US Open?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, this is a great challenge for all of us, you know, Cincinnati and Toronto, two big tournaments in a row. Just a great preparation for the US Open, because all the top 10, top 20 players are here. Every match is important. Just trying to play at well as I can to get my confidence for the big one.

 Q. It doesn't make you feel old that Kim comes back after having a baby and she's 26?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: (Laughing) No, actually. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT