WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2009
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







E. DEMENTIEVA/F. Schiavone
  6-2, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Second semifinal in a row. Probably you will play Serena. To go one round further than last year, which areas do you feel you need to be concentrating on?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think it's a completely different situation. For sure, it was a great experience being in the semis last year. But this time I'm going to play a different player and it's gonna be all new. 
 So I'm just thinking that, you know, I had some good matches so far. And the most important for the next round will be to stay focused and to stay playing aggressive on the court, and we'll see if I can do it.

 Q. When Serena is in such dominating form, what's the mental challenge in facing her?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think it's always very interesting to play against someone like Serena. She's a great champion, and it's gonna be a good experience for me anyway. 
 So I'm just -- I just want to see, you know, how tough I can be out there against her. Just looking for some good fight.

 Q. Can you compare your styles. 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think we're both absolutely two different players, you know. The biggest weapon in her game is her serve. She's very powerful on her first serve. Well, her backhand is, I think, one of the best shot in her game. 
 You know, just different game. 

 Q. Six years ago you played her here when she was No. 1. How different are you as players today versus six years ago, and how is the matchup different?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, it was a long time ago, you know. That was my first experience playing against her on grass on Centre Court. I feel like I had a good experience playing here in Wimbledon for so many years, and finally I can say that I like to play on grass. It's a big difference. 
 And, well, you know, I think I improved as a player, and looking forward to this match. 

 Q. There are many professional tennis coaches in the world, yet all the semifinalists have a parent as a coach or used to have a parent as a coach. What are the advantages?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think it's a very personal question. For me, I think that to have my mom with me all the time it's the biggest support. I just feel very lucky to have her with me all the time. She's been coaching me for such a long time, and she knows me better than anyone else. She knows exactly what I need. 
 It doesn't mean that I have anyone else to help me. You know, I have lots of people who are helping me during the season, but she's the one who I feel the most comfortable with to travel and to stay during the tournament. 

 Q. Dinara took another coach. Are there any disadvantages to having a parent as a coach?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think it's all personal, you know. Sometimes I think it's very difficult to stay 24/7 together, you know, to know what is a good moment to be a coach, what is a good moment to be a mom only. 
 I don't know why, but we work pretty good together for all these years. You know, just for me it feels great to be together with her. 

 Q. In the past in Moscow, did you have Dinara's mother as a coach?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Right, she was my first coach when I started to play tennis.

 Q. For how long?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Just a few years. But it was, you know, my first tennis lesson, so I would never forget this one. 

 Q. You've had five games so far. You haven't dropped a set. In fact, you've only lost 20 games. Obviously that's fantastic. Does part of you think that perhaps you would have liked a bigger test going into a game against probably Serena?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think it was good to win all these matches in two sets and save some energy for the big moment, a semifinal. But I'm sure it's going to be a difficult match, you know. It's going to be a fight for every point, every game, you know. So I'm not expecting anything. I don't expect an easy match tomorrow. 
 I wish I had, you know, a little bit of more fight before this round. But we'll see if I'm gonna be ready for this one. 

 Q. Francesca spoke of feeling a little bit nervous. Did you notice that? How much of an advantage is it to have experience playing on the show courts?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I'm sure she was nervous. She was playing quarterfinal for the first time in her career. I'm sure she was very exciting, you know, about her chances. 
 For me, playing in the semifinal last year was a great experience, and it's really helping me during this week. 
 So I was, I think, more calm on the court today. You know, I was focused on my game. Didn't think about anything else. This is really worked. 

 Q. Are you concerned about at all your second serve? I assume it's something you don't want to give Serena Williams too many free points come Thursday. That is a concern going into that match?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, against Serena, it's gonna be tough if, you know, I'm not gonna be able to put my first serve in because she's gonna play relaxed and take advantage of the short ball. You know, just she's trying to be aggressive on every point. 
 So for me, the key for the match will be to play deep enough and trying to put my first serve in, make sure that she's not going into the shots, you know, from the beginning. 

 Q. People might be expecting an all-Williams final. Do you think we can have an all-Russian final instead?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Can we play just two finals instead? 

 Q. From 12 months ago you seem to have toned up a bit more. Have you added a bit more power to your game in the past 12 months?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I was working a lot on my game. I know it surprised a lot of people that I'm still working hard and trying to improve my game. But this is what is so interesting for me about tennis, that I'm still trying to learn a lot about my game. And I feel very open to change something in my game. 
 You know, I just feel there are a lot of aspects in my game that I can improve still. And by working very hard during the off-season, you know, I can see some good changes. 

 Q. Have you noticed an increase in the power in your game? Seems your muscle definition is that much more refined this year from last. 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, you know, I just trying to play very aggressive, you know, and trying not to think a lot about what I have to do against this player or that player, just trying to focus on my game. 
 I think last season winning the Olympic gold medal was really big moment for me and gave me a lot of confidence. So I'm just trying to keep this confidence, you know, for my career. 

 Q. You played every Grand Slam for 12 years. Are you the type of person that soaks up everything around you, or do you just do your job and go home?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: You know, it's really hard to stay away from tennis, even if you're trying to be concentrated on your own. Still wondering what's the score on this court and that court and you're trying to check all other players. 
 I like to watch tennis. When I have a day off, I always watch on TV or I stay here on-site. Because this is a Grand Slam, you know, and I just feel very exciting as a player, but also very exciting as a spectator, as well. 

 Q. Did you see the night match?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah, I was watching Andy Murray. I was really surprised when I came back after dinner that they are still playing. I wasn't sure is it alive or not. So it took me a couple of minutes to realize it's 10:00 and they are still playing. 
 So I'm sure it was a big match and a historical moment for Wimbledon, playing that late under the roof. Just a big moment. 

 Q. How much did you enjoy the Beijing Olympics?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, that was the biggest moment in my career. I was very excited about just being there, and win a gold medal for my country was a very big moment for me. Unforgettable experience, unforgettable memories. I was so happy that, you know, I was able to achieve the biggest goal in my career. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT