WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2009
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. DEMENTIEVA/E. Vesnina
  6-1, 6-3 
   
  Q. Did you expect a tougher game today than that?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I expected a tough match because we were playing at the beginning of the year in New Zealand and it was a tough match in the final. So I think she really improved a lot, you know, since last year.   
 I was expecting a tough match. But maybe she was a little bit tired from playing against Cibulkova. It was a very close match, three sets. I'm sure she didn't play her best today.  
  
  Q. So you didn't expect to be 5-Love up so quickly?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah, I was very aggressive in the beginning. I was able to break her a couple of times and just went in a good lead in the beginning of the game and stayed very focused until the end.  
  
  Q. Was the heat a problem out there today?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: It was quite warm outside, and you know, I was trying to be aggressive, trying not to go for the long rallies because of the weather condition, and I was trying to make it as quick as possible.  
  
  Q. Are you becoming a grass court expert now, semifinals last year and then four very good matches here?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well (laughing), I don't know what to say. I like to play on grass. Last year was like a year come true for me here in Wimbledon. I played my first semifinal. You know, I really enjoyed that experience. So it looks like it's really helping me this year, as well.  
  
  Q. It's taken a while for you to get used to the surface, but how does it work now for your game? How do you approach playing on it?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I think when it comes to the grass court season, it's very important to play a couple of matches before Wimbledon. That's what I did in Eastbourne, getting to play some matches to feel the grass and feel your game on the grass, and I think I had good preparation there.   
 Every time I come on the court I try to improve something, and you know, just trying to play a better game every time.  
  
  Q. So after Roland Garros were you able to pick your energy level and self-motivation level back up again and say I'm going to come into Wimbledon and it's going to be a little different?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah, I think tennis just gives you a great opportunity to learn a lot about your game, about yourself. It's about how quick you can forget some bad experience and just focus in and going forward.   
 You know, I was really disappointed with my results in Paris, but I was trying to be positive and get ready for the grass.  
  
  Q. You know your level better than anyone, so how do you really feel like you're playing right now, and just look ahead maybe to tomorrow against Razzano or Schiavone or even a little further. Do you think you can play your best tennis for the next five or six days?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I'm trying. I'm trying really hard, and I think tomorrow it's going to be a tough match. When it comes to the second week, all the matches are very difficult, and you really have to play at your best if you want to go forward.   
 So just trying to keep my focus and be aggressive as I was today. So hopefully I can do this.  
  
  Q. But ball-striking-wise do you feel like you're playing at your A level or almost 100 percent?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, it's never 100 percent (laughing). I mean, it's grass. It's unpredictable. Just wake up tomorrow and try to do as good as I did today.   
  
  Q. Just a question away from the match. You're named as one of the stylishly dressed players on court. Who would you regard as the most stylish?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: You mean this season alone?   
  
  Q. In terms of dress.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I really like my dress (laughing), but I think Venus has a very nice dress, as well.  
  
  Q. Do you have any thoughts about bringing your own clothing range out, designing your own clothes?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I used to work with my sponsor for such a long time, and we worked together as a designer team to create something nice for every season. So I don't think I could do it alone.   
  
  Q. One question the next match. You could play against Francesca Schiavone. Can I ask you if you know her?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah, I know Francesca very well. I used to play junior competition with her.   
 I think, you know, it will be tough match. She has a good grass court game, she has a good slice, she has some tricky shots with her forehand, and she's aggressive with her serve. She did quite well this tournament. So I expect a tough match against her if she wins today against Razzano.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT