BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 14, 2009
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. CETKOVSKA/E. Dementieva
  7-6, 2-6, 6-1  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. I heard you like to call home to talk to your dogs. What do you say to them?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Oh, no, actually, I don't do that. I think they just made it up.   
  
  Q. On a day like today, it's a hard day. What positive can you take away that you can apply to the next tournament, next match? Do you learn something on a day like today that you can think about next time?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I'm sure every time you lose you're trying to learn something. I just feel like I probably shouldn't come here because I played a lot of the matches in the beginning of the year and I just needed -- you know, just to take some time off and get ready and recovery.   
 So, yeah, I didn't have enough time, so just, you know, will think about it and just make some changes for the next tournament.   
  
  Q. What's your most important advice for young tennis players?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think the most important is enjoying and to like competition, because that's what it's all about. Play as much as you can just to get used to it.   
  
  Q. Your serve years ago was much slower. You've made some changes. How much better are you now as a server than you were three years ago?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I think I am better.   
  
  Q. Today was just an off day? Was there any particular problem or reason?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, just like I said earlier, you know, I think I shouldn't come here because I didn't have enough time to recovery after playing so many matches in the beginning of the year. Just needed a much longer break to get ready to play at my best.   
 So it was a very short period of time after Dubai. When it was about time to start to practice again, I was just too tired. That probably was the worst match for a long time for me. I'm sure there was a reason for that.   
 I played a lot of the matches, once again. There's nothing I can do about it. I had a good start. All I need was just to have a good break and start over again.   
  
  Q. Is it just fatigue? There's no injury or anything like that?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: No. I just think my mind wasn't there. I was not really exciting about playing this match. Just didn't play at all.  
  
  Q. Did the heat factor in at all? Was the weather any sort of...  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: No. Actually didn't feel too hot to me.   
  
  Q. You go straight to Miami now or what do you do now?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yes. I just want to take a few days off and get ready for Miami.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT