OPEN GDF SUEZ
February 15, 2009
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: First question, please.   
  
  Q. It was obviously a very long and tight match. Do you feel that you've missed your chances in the first set, and that could have been a different story if you had won the first set?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yes, I think I had some opportunity in the first set, 5-4 serving for the set. And also in the tie-breaker, it was a very close set.  
 I don't know if it changed something in the game, because I think I played really well today. And, you know, she never gives up. So I don't think, you know, it wouldn't be any easier for me. But for me I missed some chances in the beginning.  
  
  Q. Amelie has been reluctant to answer this question, but since you've played her, do you feel she's come back to her best level?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yes, I think she really picked up her game and played at her best this week, just the whole week she played very solid and especially today in the final. Really impressive win today.  
 I'm just very glad for her. She has to go through some difficult time, and all these injuries. So it's really great for her to win here, especially at home.  
  
  Q. How were you feeling physically in the third set, because you played a lot at the start of the season while you were still fresh or a little bit of time?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, it's a physical game. We played for two and a half hours. And for sure I think we both were a little tired at the end of the match. We had a lot of long rallies. And it looked like Amelie was a little more fresh than me.  
  
  Q. Do you think that not playing your semifinal yesterday had an impact on your performance today?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I don't think so. It's always good to have a day off to get ready for the final. No, it didn't affect the way I was playing today.  
  
  Q. How difficult is it to pick yourself up for Dubai, the tournament started today, you've got to go straight there and you've got a lot of points to defend? It's not going to be easy to go straight there.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I mean, what can I do? I think it's not right to start Dubai on Sunday knowing that so many players are coming from Paris. I mean, it's like you don't respect this tournament.   
 And also having a final in Dubai on Saturday for no reason, because we don't have any more tournaments after Dubai. We have like two weeks off. And then an extra day can really help the finalists in Paris to get ready to play at their best in Dubai. So I have nothing to say about it.  
  
  Q. Do you think the new road map has been short sighted in its treatment of the top players, because it seems the top players are being penalized for going further in tournaments?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I think with the new road map we have some good changes, but we still have something to work on. And this is the first time we're going to play with this kind of schedule.   
 So really have to see how it's going to work and maybe in the end of the season we'll come up all together, all the players, the tournament directors, and we'll decide for some other changes.  
  
  Q. Just another question related to Dubai. I was wondering what you thought about the UAA's decision to deny Shapira a Visa, preventing her from playing in the tournament?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I just feel very sorry for her. I think she's a very good girl, very sensitive, and I played her in Auckland, and they also had some kind of demonstration during the match.   
 It just feels sad for her, because I mean she really cares about what's going on right now between Israel and Palestine and it's a tough situation. So I think she takes it very seriously, and I wish she can play in Dubai.  
  
  Q. Getting back to the match. You made a few unforced errors in the third set. What was the reason? Was it because you were feeling pretty tired already?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Once again, it was a very good, very close match. And Amelie played really well. Unbelievable points, the way she did passing shots. She was very aggressive at the net. Serving very well.   
 I mean, it's a game. I mean, playing for two and a half hours, for sure you can do some mistakes, but I was trying so hard. But she was just better than me.   
  
  Q. It's possible that you could face Amelie again in Dubai.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Oh, no. (Chuckling).  
  
  Q. In your section. How would you go about getting over this and turning the match over if you have to play her again?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I'm sure it's going to be different to play without the French crowd. (Chuckling). But, seriously, I don't look that far. I just need to get on the plane and go to Dubai.  
  
  Q. Are you still enjoying your week in Paris even with this loss?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I wish I can stay longer, you know, to really enjoy Paris, because we're quite busy spending all the time here at the stadium. So I love the city, but I never have time to walk around. Well, hopefully I'm going to come a week before the French Open to enjoy the city.  
  
  Q. I missed the beginning but are you happy for her in some way?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yes, I'm very happy for her. I think she had such a tough time to go through with all the injuries, and she was really trying so hard to come back to the level that she used to play, and I think she did everything right the way she was using the crowd, just get the energy from the crowd. And the level of the game was just incredible.  
 I think the whole week she was playing very solid and just a great win for her.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT