OPEN GDF SUEZ
February 10, 2009
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You got off to a good start, you won in Oakland and Brisbane then you reached the semifinals in Melbourne. What is the reason for such a good start? Did you train harder during the winter break?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah, first of all, I didn't play in Brisbane. Yes, I had a different preparation. I was practicing in the states, and I spent almost five weeks there. So I think that the preparation was a little bit different this time. And it's really helped me to adjust for the weather conditions and playing in Australia.   
 So I think also playing a small tournament in the beginning of the year gives me a lot of confidence. So I was able to play much better next week, and play with a lot of confidence during the Australian Open.   
  
  Q. How much did you enjoy playing Fed Cup?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: It was very nice to be back on the team. I hadn't played in two years, and I really missed this atmosphere. It was very nice to play home in Moscow in front of your home crowd.   
 I think we had a solid performance, you know. From the beginning, we were expecting a tough match against the Chinese team. Even without their best players we were trying to be not too much relaxed playing against them, and I think it was a good match.   
  
  Q. I wanted to know what happened during the semifinals against Serena Williams? I was wondering if you were a bit nervous for the occasion because I did see that it was the third time in a row you are losing a semifinal in straight sets. Is it a mental problem or block or something like that?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I really think it was a good match. And big credit to Serena maybe in the beginning of the tournament she had a slow start, but then, you know, when it comes to the quarterfinal to the semis, she was playing so much better.  
 And I think with the big experience that she has playing and winning ten titles of the Grand Slam I think she knows how to handle the situation better than me, and she was playing really well that day. So I think I was playing good, but not good enough to beat her that time.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I played against her the week before in Sidney and a couple of times before, and I knew what to expect. I was trying to get ready. It's always a little frustrating when it comes to the end of the tournament. But I wasn't nervous at all.   
  
  Q. What makes the difference between Serena Williams and her opponents?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: And?   
  
  Q. Other opponents?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I think just like I said, Serena is like all of the grand champions. She knows how to increase her level of the game during the tournament especially when it comes to the Grand Slams.   
 I think it's very different when you have to play two weeks in a row. And you really need to realize that the best form you have to save for a big moment like the semifinal and the final. And she really knows how to do it. I think she has a great experience. This title was, I think, the tenth for her. So, she knows how to do it.   
  
  Q. Are you feeling differently since you won the Olympic games?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: No, I don't feel different. I think that was the best moment in my career just the biggest goal in my life. But I don't feel like a different person, I don't feel like a different player. I still have some goals in my career, and I'm trying to achieve the number one position.   
 I would like to win a Grand Slam. But that was the biggest, the biggest goal. I'm just very happy, and very proud for my family that I was able to achieve it.   
  
  Q. You said you don't feel differently, but do you think the other players in the locker room see you differently now that you've won the gold?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I don't know if they look different at me, but I'm sure they want to beat me right now even more. Everyone wants to beat the Olympic champion, so...   
  
  Q. You've had quite a busy schedule to start the year with two tournaments to start with the Australian Open and Fed Cup as well. Are you worried that you may be tired come the end of the season, or do you intend to take more rest over the summer tournaments?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I'm planning to take a rest after Dubai and get ready for the rest of the season but I think I've done a good preparation. I've done a lot of physical work. And I was able to play, you know, four weeks in a row in Australia, and playing Fed Cup is a bit different. No, I don't feel tired. I feel fine.   
  
  Q. What's now your main goal?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: The biggest goal is to win a Grand Slam for me, and this is what I was -- you know, it's always been a goal of mine. I don't know if I'll do it this season or the next season, but it's definitely in my mind.   
  
  Q. The last three Grand Slams having both of them playing as they are now back again so strongly, how tough is it going to be this year to get one of those Grand Slams? You've got two of them to face each time?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I'm sure the competition is really tough when they both are playing, and you see them both in your part of the draw, it's never easy. But I've had some good results against both of them. So I realize it's going to be tough, but it's not impossible.   
  
  Q. Did the manner in which Serena beat Safina in the final in Melbourne the ease with which she beat her, does that suggest that when it comes to the slams, Serena and Venus are playing at a higher level than the other players?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think Dinara really didn't play her best in the final. I think she was a little bit too nervous. She was playing the final of the Grand Slam second time in her life, and it's never easy, you know you really need to get some experience before you can, you know produce a better performance, I guess.   
 But I think Serena, she just had a great experience, so, you know, playing in the big, big competitions. Big tournaments like Grand Slams. And, you know, it's never easy to play against her in this situation.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT