AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 29, 2009
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/E. Dementieva
  6-3, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Was it a match of lost opportunities and frustration?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: No. I think it was a good match. I think Serena played really well today. Uhm, I think I was maybe not aggressive enough and maybe I was playing not deep enough, which allowed her to be very aggressive and dictate the game. 
 But I think she was very powerful today. 

 Q. You beat her pretty handily not so long ago. What was the difference in this match from her?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think she was moving better today, and her first-serve percentage was quite high. So was really difficult on her service game, you know, to do something, to put any pressures. 
 I mean, she was very focused today. I mean, it was a good match. 

 Q. Is it tougher to play her indoors in perfect conditions?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think it was the right decision to play indoor. I mean, we couldn't survive, you know, outside in this temperature. For sure you need to adjust a little bit, you know, with the roof closed because the ball goes a little bit faster and you really need some time to get used to it. 
 But, you know, it was feeling pretty good out there. 

 Q. What about your service? You served a number of double-faults at perhaps crucial times. 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yes, I think I did some double-faults not in a good moment. I think my first serve was not good enough for her today. 

 Q. What positives do you take out of the match today?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I just had a good run, you know, from the beginning of the year. I played a lot of matches. I won all of them. And I feel like today I was not quick enough. I was not maybe aggressive enough against her. 
 But I have no regrets. I had just a great time here. 

 Q. Was that an unusual pressure for you, having had so many on the run?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I didn't feel any pressure. 

 Q. Was it an unusual feeling to not have lost all the way through?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, actually it's not a first time in my career that I won two tournaments in a row. 

 Q. Was it your worst performance of the year so far, or did Serena just play better?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I don't think it was a bad performance. I think it was a good match. 

 Q. Where do you go from here now?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I'm going to Moscow. Playing Fed Cup next week.

 Q. If Serena plays at that level, do you expect her to win the tournament?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, it's hard to say. I mean, Vera or Dinara, I think they had a very close match against her before. It's going to be a very close final, so it's hard to say now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT