AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2009
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







E. DEMENTIEVA/I. Benesova
  6-4, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. That seemed to be better than your first one. What was your assessment of your form?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah, I think it was a little bit easier match today, especially because of the weather conditions. It was not that hot. I think we were lucky to play in the Hisense Arena, which is not as windy as outside courts. 
 So, yeah, I think just played a little bit better. This is what I need if I want to improve, if I want to go all the way. Just very glad I could win in two sets.

 Q. Is this the best winning streak of your career?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I don't know actually. I didn't count (smiling). 

 Q. Must be a good feeling, 12 in a row. 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah, it is a good feeling, you know. I feel like I had a very good start of the year. Right now it's the most important moment. That's why we're coming here to play the Australian Open. I just hope to play well here. 

 Q. What do you put your good form down to? Your preparation must have been terrific. 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I think the preparation was a little bit different. Instead of practicing Moscow indoors, I just spend all the time in Miami, you know, practicing outside in a similar condition as here. 
 It really helps me, you know, to get used to the weather conditions in Australia. Just much more easy physically to play right now. 

 Q. What part of your game has improved the most over the last couple of years?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I mean, I was working on everything, you know, especially on my serve, but the baseline as well, the volley game. I mean, everything needs to be improved. 
 I feel like I did a little bit improvement, but still lots of work needs to be done. 

 Q. Do you feel this is your best chance to win the Australian Open?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I'm not thinking about my chances. I'm really enjoying, you know, the way I'm playing right now. Just want to go as far as I can, just enjoy every single match I play here.

 Q. Are you enjoying being in the shadows a bit? Is that how you prefer it?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: You know, I just don't think about it. I just like to play, and that's what I'm here for. I don't think about all the pressure or not, you know, the media attention or not. I'm here to play. That's what I like to do. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT