AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2009
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. DEMENTIEVA/K. Barrois
  7-6, 2-6, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How tough was that first-round game?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah, I think it was very tough match, you know, especially because of the weather condition today. And also it was not easy for me, you know, to come here after playing so many matches in a row.   
 So I'm sure I wouldn't have minded one or two extra days before. But those are kind of days you have to survive. I'm just very glad I was able to do it.   
  
  Q. Having that unbeaten run up until this tournament, still unbeaten, is that going to be a bit of a problem, maintaining your momentum?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: No, I don't think it will be problem. I think it's always nice to have some good matches before. That really gives you a lot of confidence for the Grand Slam.   
 But it's just a matter of, you know, the recovery, if it's enough time for me to get some rest and get ready for the next round.   
  
  Q. One of your legs was wrapped. Do you have an injury right now?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: No, just a prevention.  
  
  Q. Were you worried towards the end of the second set? Three years ago you went out in the first round.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Playing the same court actually (laughter). Yeah, I was thinking about it. I was like, Oh, no, it's going to happen again.   
 Yeah, I was worried. I think she played really well, has nothing to lose, really going for the shot, making some winners and great serve. It was a really tough match to play. I was, you know, maybe not playing at my best today.   
 So, yeah, I was worried.   
  
  Q. What do you think you have to work on perhaps for the next round? Is it a matter of being physically fit and mentally attuned?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah, for me it's all about, you know, get some recovery and be basically ready to play. I've got a lot of matches and I've got my confidence. I feel like it was a good preparation so far, so it's just a matter of how fresh I can be for the rest of the tournament, yeah.   
  
  Q. Four women who have been extremely prominent in tennis in recent years - Kim Clijsters, Justine Henin, Maria Sharapova and Lindsay Davenport - are not in this event. Do you think that creates a greater opportunity for you?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think even without those players it's gonna be tough competition for all of us. A lot of good players are here. It looks like a lot of them has a chance to win this tournament. It's quite open for a few players.   
 So, no, I think the competition's really tough, and it's very interesting for me as a player to realize that everyone has a chance to win this Grand Slam and to get to No. 1 position. I think that makes very interesting for the players.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT