MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 16, 2009
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. DEMENTIEVA/D. Safina
  6-3, 2-6, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for this year's Medibank International champion.   
  
  Q. A few hiccups in the second set, but a perfect start to the year otherwise?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think, you know, in the second set Dinara put lots of pressure on me and I was playing too defensively. So instead of continuing to play very aggressively like I did in the first set, I just think I was waiting for her mistakes to come, and that was not a good idea.   
 So, I mean, I was able to change somehow, you know, the situation in the third set, and that break in the beginning of the set really helped me during the third set.  
  
  Q. When you were sitting down to Christmas dinner, did you think in your wildest dreams you would win back-to-back titles at the beginning of the season?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: No. To be honest, I was thinking at Christmas about how good is it to be with my family all together. It was a long way to travel for me from Miami home and then from home to here, but I wouldn't miss it for anything.   
 So it's just great. I mean, I think I was hoping for a good start, but I couldn't imagine I'm going to win two titles.  
  
  Q. So there's nothing that you did that you can think of in your preparation that just snapped?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I did good preparation and was practicing and working really hard, but like all other girls. So I was hoping for some good results to come. It's never easy, I mean, especially playing after long break. You really need to play some matches to get into the game.   
 For me, it was like straightaway. I just came to Auckland. You know, I had two days and I was ready and into the competition I was so focused. This is great.  
  
  Q. Seems like you're much more calm and composed. In the in the late stages of the match, do you really know, This is what I have to do, and I can actually do it during the match?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I just think all these matches that we play against each other, that was a great experience for me. When you have to play for like, I don't know, ren or nine times in a row, you really know what to expect. It's just a matter of can you do it or, I mean, how focus and tight you can be.   
 Because I knew exactly what I needed to do against her. I was really patient today and I was trying to stay positive, even in the second set when she was dominating all the time.   
 So, yeah, it comes with experience, I guess.  
  
  Q. Do you think there's now maybe in a way a little bit more pressure on you that you had such a good run into the Australian Open and obviously Grand Slam victories have eluded you so far?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: This is great to have all this pressure after winning two titles. I mean, it wouldn't be better if I was just going and playing without pressure in Australia, no.   
 I mean, it's great to have all these matches played here in and Auckland. And coming to Australia with all the pressure, I enjoy it. I really do.  
  
  Q. Why would you call her the best player on tour when you beaten her three times before?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I really think she is. I really think she did the most -- the biggest improvement since last year. And she was the one who really beat all of top 10 players last year. So no one else was so impressive, you know, in the last season.   
 I really think she's the best right now. She has a good chance to reach No. 1 position, because she lost first round in Australia last year. It's quite open for her. Yeah, I really think she has a good chance.   
  
  Q. It's open for you, too. You have No. 1 as a possibility for you. Your first Grand Slam. Your level is very high. Wouldn't you put yourself right up there with her?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think it's quite open for a few players. I mean, anyone from top 5, top 6, by winning Australian Open can make it to the No. 1 position, which is great. It's going to be very interesting for all of us. It's great.  
  
  Q. You said many times in your career your dream is to be No. 1, and, of course, win a Grand Slam. Seems like now you're really pretty close.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Oh, you never know if you are close or not. Sometimes you can be very close, but it's a very tough step to make it.   
 So, yeah, I do have such goals in my career, and I'm trying to achieve. I don't know if it's going to come soon or not, but I'm trying so hard.  
  
  Q. Is the belief there?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I do believe, yes.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT