SONY ERICSSON CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 7, 2008
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  E. DEMENTIEVA/N. Petrova
6-4, 4-6, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Elena. 

 Q. You said the other night after the match against Venus Williams that you feel that maybe this is not your tournament. Things are changing? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, it took me a long time, you know, to get to the semifinals. Last time I was in the semifinals in the Championship was eight years ago. So I just still think it's not my favorite tournament, you know. 
 I always wanted to come here, and was preparing myself and working hard, but I guess it's the reason to play against the best of the best, you know, especially in the first round. 
 You know, I did expect a very tough match today against Serena, because it was an exciting match for both of us. I just feel sorry for her that she's injured and couldn't come on the court. 
 You know, for me, emotionally, it was difficult to refocus and play against Nadia, knowing already that you are in the semifinals, but you need to finish this match. And I didn't want to lose the momentum. I really wanted to stay in the competition to get ready for tomorrow's semifinals. 

 Q. Do you think that you you lost too much energy today to win a match that is not important for the tournament? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, you have to work hard to win this match, because you're playing against the best players in the world. It's never easy. 
 I mean, Nadia's a Top 10 player. I think she came on the court, you know, very relaxed, you know. Enjoying the moment, enjoying the chance to play in the Championships. So it was a tough match, you know. 
 I think physically we're both working very hard. You know, it's still good to win, and hopefully it's going to help. 

 Q. You are for one in the record with Vera Zvonareva what do you expect tomorrow? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I expect a tough match. Because I think Vera played unbelievably well this week. She won all her matches. She beat Jelena Jankovic who is the No. 1 in the world today. 
 So it's going to be a tough match, you know. I think she physically is very fit. She's ready to play. I mean, she can play for hours. Yeah, it's going to be a very physical game tomorrow. 

 Q. Honestly, were you happy that Serena to withdraw today? Were you happy to know that Serena withdraw today? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I mean, it's not the way I want it, you know. It's not the way I wanted to get to the semifinals. 
 I was ready to play against her. I was waiting for this match, you know. I didn't know until the last moment that she was injured. I was on the court, I was trying to warm up, you know, thinking how I'm going to play against her. Then I came to the locker room and she was there, you know, injured. So I just felt sorry. 
 I know how it feels to be injured. I don't want to, you know, go through the semis by that way. But it's just life, you know. Injury can happen. 

 Q. It was just before the match? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: It just happened -- yeah, I mean, it just happened before the match. I didn't know earlier. 

 Q. What is your opinion about Rafael Nadal?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: What do you want to know? 

 Q. How do you see him as a tennis player, as a person?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I see him as an absolutely phenomenal tennis player. You know. The way he was playing this year it's very impressive. Winning so many tournaments on the road, you know, playing Grand Slams. Changing the surface, you know, coming to the Olympic games and still participating in Davis Cup.
 I feel sorry that he was not able to play in the Championship because he really deserved it. 
 But it's great to see someone taking the No. 1 from Roger, because I think Roger was playing without any competition for a long time. I think it's great to have someone who, you know, can get you in this fight, you know, for the number one position. But he's absolutely impressive this year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT