SONY ERICSSON CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 6, 2008
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  E. DEMENTIEVA/D. Safina  
6-2, 6-4  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. It's a long time that you don't win at this competition, can you explain why?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Oh, well, I don't have an explanation, you know. I think it's one of the biggest goals for every single player, you know, in the beginning of the year to get to the Championship and play here. So it's always been a goal for me.   
 You know, I realize how happy I was to be able to play eight times in a row in the Championships. And just very exciting to try one more time and have another chance to play here.  
  
  Q. Do you have a motivation of before it was an indoor tournament, and now outdoor?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I couldn't hear it.   
  
  Q. Before in the last years this tournament was indoors, now it's outdoors.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah, I think it's really unusual, because we're used to play indoors all the time. Coming here to Doha it was very exciting, you know, especially for me coming here for the first time. But I think it's a little bit different conditions. You really have to just come in advance and get used to the weather conditions.   
 But, I mean, we spent most of the season playing outdoors, so it's not a big surprise for us.   
  
  Q. After beating Dinara in the final of Beijing, do you think psychologically you have an advantage on her? Can you go to the court and relax because you already have beaten her in Beijing?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, you know, Beijing was a very special, you know, the game was a very special feeling to play against Dinara in the final.   
 But I think, you know, she's a very competitive player. And every time she's on the court she's fighting, you know. And she's trying to play and fight for every single point, so it's never easy to play against Dinara.   
 Even though I won our last meeting, you know, I was expecting a tough match. And you know, we had such a big fight in the second set, so I think she's a very good player. I never expect an easy match against her.  
  
  Q. Tomorrow you will be playing against Serena, and if you win you will go to the semifinal. Do you think you are ready mentally to the game against Serena, because it's going to be a tough game for sure?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, first of all, it's great to have a motivation to play for the semifinal spot, you know. I remember myself playing, you know, my last matches knowing that there is nothing -- it's not going to make a big difference. I'm not going to be in the semifinal. So it's great to keep this motivation.   
 And playing against Serena is just an exciting match. I realize how well I have to play because I was watching her match against Venus and against Dinara. I think she's in great shape, and it's going to be a tough match for me.   
  
  Q. Knowing very well Serena, how much are you surprised about the score in the second and the third set, especially the 6-Love between the sisters and for players like Serena, which is not someone who gives up. What do you think about it?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah, I think she's a fighter. She never gives up. I think she was really powerful and dominating in the first set. But Venus, she started to play well in the second set, to really pick up her game and play unbelievable tennis.   
 I think it's never easy to play against someone that you know so well. So it was very emotional for both of them. For me, I was watching the match. I didn't expect her to lose, but for me it was an extra motivation to go and fight against Dinara tonight.   
  
  Q. I think Serena described it as one of the worst matches if not the worst match she's ever played. Does that make her even more of a challenge tomorrow because she'll be coming back determined?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think the way she was playing against Dinara was a different, different match, different game. Once again, to play against Venus maybe it was a little bit too emotional for her. But I think she's in great shape. She moves well, she serves well. So I expect a tough match for myself.   
 But, well, you never know what to expect from Serena, so I have to be ready. She may come back and play unbelievable tennis.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT