SONY ERICSSON CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 5, 2008
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  V. WILLIAMS/E. Dementieva  
6-4, 4-6, 6-3  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Elena.   
  
  Q. It was a tough match, but what made the difference today?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I think it was a close match, but I just feel like I did too many unforced errors and didn't take the opportunity, you know. Holding my serve. I guess against someone like her, I mean, just too many chances that I couldn't use it.   
 So not satisfied with the way I was playing today. I think I was a little bit too nervous playing my first match here in the Championship. I think she played really well yesterday, and she was in good shape today. But I didn't play my best today.  
  
  Q. Do you think you've ever faced her when she's given you so many opportunities of her serve not functioning in the way it normally does?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, when someone returns well, then it looks like someone is serving bad.  
  
  Q. Well, she served an immense amount of double faults for Venus?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah, I think I put a lot of pressure on her serve, that's why she did so many double faults.  
  
  Q. You said you might be a bit nervous. That seems a bit surprising having played in so many big games in your career?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah, I really wanted to make it, you know. I was too excited, you know, playing the Championship especially against Venus my first round. I think it's very tough to play your first match against such a big champion.   
 It took me some time before I started to feel the ball better and get into the rhythm of the game before. But once again, you have to play your best otherwise you're going to lose.  
  
  Q. This tournament's a little bit different; you get another chance?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I know. It's hard, you know, finishing almost midnight, playing tomorrow against Dinara, so it's a tough schedule. We're in a very strong group. But, yeah, I'll try.   
  
  Q. Comparing with the previous years where you did play so well in the last couple of years. You were in the same state of mind? You were as nervous the other years as you were today or not?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I just feel it's not my tournament. Playing for so many times and never make it to the semis. Just once when I played for the first time. I don't know what's wrong with me. I mean, maybe November is not my month.   
  
  Q. You had a lot of opportunities, can you just talk about in tennis, you know, it's not really playing well the whole match. It's playing well at certain moments in a match. Is that what was lacking tonight?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, you know, I think we're playing in a very tough condition, because when you play that late you can feel the humidity, and the balls are very heavy. So it's very difficult to go for the winner, you know, and finish the point quickly. So it looks like we're pushing a lot, but it's just because of the weather conditions.   
 So it was a tough match physically. It was very difficult to play like this. So I missed so much opportunity. I feel I had so many chances, couldn't make it. Well, I don't know what to say.   
  
  Q. You make a very good point about starting late tonight. Has any of you asked any reasons why it does have to start so late? Because the heat is not that oppressive during the daytime is it now?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, we play for people. We don't want to start early in the day when nobody's watching us. So I think it's reasonable to start at 5:00 and then have three matches in a row.   
 But, unfortunately, the first match took such a long time. So we were trying to warm up couple of times, get ready for the match. It was quite difficult because we were waiting a while before we get to the courts. It's never easy when you play that late.  
  
  Q. What about the transition from being indoors for a while to going outdoors to something like this? A few of the girls had said that's been kind of tough.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, it is tough. I mean, last time we were playing two months indoors and then we finished the year in Madrid, which is also an indoor event.   
 But this time, you know, it's quite difficult. It's a quite different situation that we have to go outdoors. Just adjust your game to the weather condition which is never easy because it's quite windy out there.   
 But I think we're all in the same condition. Playing in the Top 10, you have to be ready for everything.   
  
  Q. I was just going to ask if this game goes to three sets as well, they could be playing past midnight. Have you ever been playing before that time past midnight?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I did in Beijing. We had a crazy schedule (laughing). We were playing every single match midnight. Finishing like 2:00 or 1:00 in the morning.   
 Well, I don't know if they're going to go three sets. If it starts in three sets, it finishes in three sets. It's a long day.   
  
  Q. Do you think you still have some strength left to play well the next two matches?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I try my best, you know. I'm here to play, and I'm very excited to be in the Championships, so I don't want to be upset. I just want to try one more time and be positive, and we'll see if I can do it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT