U.S. OPEN
September 5, 2008
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  J. JANKOVIC/E. Dementieva  
6-4, 6-4  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You had a pretty rough run in the last game or so with unforced errors. Reflecting on that, I mean, how do you feel about how that happened? What was going on in your mind at the time?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah, I just feel like I did too many unforced errors today. She was playing, you know, very solid, very safe, especially in the conditions, like today, you know, on a windy day.   
 So she was trying to do everything, and I just was trying to go for the winner and couldn't make it.  
 I feel like it was a good run, you know. Like I won 12 matches in a row. I mean, just feel little tired today. I couldn't play my best.   
  
  Q. Do you think it was not possible to win the Olympics and to win this back to back?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think Steffi did it, right? But I think she's the only one. I mean, it's quite difficult, especially in the, you know -- we had to play in the very, you know, hot and humid condition in Beijing. It was quite difficult, you know.  
 So really I was trying to, you know, stay positive. I was trying to not to think how tired I am, but, you know, when it comes to the second week, it's really difficult physically.  
  
  Q. How frustrating is it to lose a match like that? We know Jelena is a great retriever, but given you were dictating so many of the rallies.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, but I couldn't close the point, you know. I was trying to play aggressively, but I couldn't make the last one. She was playing everything back to me.   
 Well, like I said, too many unforced errors for me, you know. Some easy, you know, shots at the net, you know, just in the open court. I couldn't make it.  
 Yeah. Against her, you really have to work hard, you know, every single point. With some other player, you know, two, three balls is enough, but with her you have to be ready for 7-6 or even more.  
  
  Q. How frustrating is it when she steps away when you're about to serve?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: (laughter.)  
 I don't know what to say. It has to be frustrated. No, that's okay.   
  
  Q. Given that you won the Olympics, if that hadn't happened, would you have been more disappointed today? Would this have been more of a goal?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I'm not disappointed at all. For me Olympics was my biggest goal, and I did my best. I have no regrets about it.   
 Even if I came here and losing first round, I had no regrets at all. So just like I said, it was a good run. I tried everything I had. I tried my best here, but I couldn't do, you know, more than that.  
  
  Q. What's the most difficult thing about playing her? You said before that you needed to be aggressive.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: You know, I think it was quite windy today in the court, so I just couldn't step into the court and, you know -- just I feel like I need to put more pressure on her.   
 You know, especially on her second serve, and I missed a lot on the second serve today. So against her you don't want to play long rallies, because she's too good at that. You really have to finish your point in two, three shots, you know.   
 Make sure that she's not -- when she's reaching the ball, you have to advance to the ball, you know, you have to go to the net.   
 I was not able to do that today.  
  
  Q. You've had such a wonderful career over many, many years. Do you think there would be something missing in your career after all this effort and all the great wins?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I hope so.  
  
  Q. Would something be missing if you did not have a Grand Slam win?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I feel like -- you know, I feel like I can do it, you know.   
 I had a great experience playing in a lot of semifinals and some finals in the Grand Slams, so I hope I can make it in the future.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT