U.S. OPEN
August 29, 2008
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  E. DEMENTIEVA/A. Keothavong  
6-3, 6-4  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Was that slightly a tougher match than you expected?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah, I think she played really well, especially in the beginning of the match. She really went there, and she's not afraid, you know, in hitting the ball pretty hard.   
 It was our first meeting so it took me couple games, you know, just to know her and to find a way to play.  
 Yeah, I think it was -- she was playing really well.  
  
  Q. She's only just broken into the top 100 this year. How far do you think Anne can go?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think she's probably the best British player that I ever played. She has a very goof potential, she's very aggressive, and she has a good serve.   
 The whole game is pretty good. I think it's just a matter of experience, you know. Just maybe -- I'm sure -- she's still pretty young.  
  
  Q. Maybe top 40?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Maybe better. Who knows?   
  
  Q. After the upset of Ivanovic yesterday, does that make you more determined, or you just say that's the way tennis is? What goes through your mind?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, she's not in my -- she's not in my part of the draw, so it doesn't really affect my draw.  
  
  Q. I understand that.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, but, I think, you know -- I mean, it can happen with everyone. It takes a lot of time, you know, just to feel as a No. 1. I think she has a very good, solid game.   
 I think it's extra pressure with this No. 1 position. She's a very, you know, good, very athletic player. But, you know, she was maybe a little bit too tight, you know, on the court.   
 Just something that you have to learn to deal with.  
  
  Q. So it's now official that your next match is going to play Na Li from China. To my point of view, the winner between you and Na will you have a better chance to go into your last four from your draw. Do you think so, or do you think that this match can be very important as any other, you know, for you to go even further in this tournament?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I just -- I mean, I don't think that far. I'm sure the match against Li Na will be a tough one. And it will be tough for both of us, because, you know, we've played against each other a year ago and it was really very close match.   
 For sure she's in good shape right now, so it's going to be a tough match for me. I'm just looking forward to that.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT