XXIX OLYMPIC GAMES
August 17, 2008
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  E. DEMENTIEVA/D. Safina
3-6, 7-5, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Could I ask your views on the status of women's tennis in the world today. You have the No. 1 seed who has never actually won any Grand Slams or played in the finals. What does that mean for you in terms of opportunities? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think Jankovic is probably one of the most consistent players in the tour, even though she's never won a Grand Slam. She's won a lot of tournaments and she's very consistent during the year. By the ranking she's No. 1 and I think she deserve it. That's the way we count the points. That's the way it works. 
 But I think the competition is really tough. And even for No. 1, if you don't play in your best, you're not in the final. That's what happened here. I think Dinara was playing unbelievable well the last, you know, few months. She was winning a lot of matches. She was beating the top 10 players. I mean, it's all about if you're in a good shape, you're in the final. If not, doesn't matter what you are in the ranking, you know, you're not going to win it. 

 Q. I think probably the most important question is, how are you feeling? How excited are you? How did you win this match?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I'm so exciting. I'm extremely happy. It's hard to believe actually. You know, I mean, I was thinking about it for a long, long time, and I was getting ready mentally and physically. I was dreaming every day about it. But when it come to you, it's still a big surprise. It's very difficult to explain the way I feel right now. It takes I think a few days before I realize I'm Olympic champion. 
 But this is, for sure, the biggest moment in my career, in my life. I will never forget this moment.

 Q. Do you think the monkey is off your back, as they say? You've threatened with the big titles, and now you've finally got one. 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: You know, the journalists they were asking me all the time what is the most important for me, the Grand Slam or Olympic Games. Obviously, it's the Olympic Games, they're so much more important to me. 
 Well, I mean, I cannot even compare Grand Slam and Olympic Games because it's just so much bigger. This is a dream for every athlete, you know, just to be here. But to be an Olympic champion, this is the top of the career. 
 So for me, you know, I feel like all I've done in my life, you know, by practicing so much, you know, believing in myself, for all the support that I have from my family and my team, I mean, it's all worth it, you know, for this moment. 

 Q. What does it say about Russian tennis that all three of you are from the same country?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, that's the answer. That's how we dominated for the last few years. I think we won a lot of tournaments. We played a lot of Russian finals in the Grand Slams, in the big events. 
 But today, you know, all of us, standing three Russian girls in the Olympics, it's huge moment, you know, for Russia. I know we were expecting and planning some medals from our team, but I don't think anyone could expect three medals, you know, from the girls. So this is really big moment for Russia. 

 Q. Are you playing your best tennis this year? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, because from the beginning I was starting to think about Olympic Games. I decided to play singles only. I was not playing in doubles competition. I was trying to save all my energy, you know, all my time for getting ready to play the best in Beijing. 
 And, well, in Olympic Season, I couldn't think about anything else except Olympic Games. So I did all the preparation. I mean, I didn't play any tournaments in the States, you know, that I like to play because I was, you know, working hard in Florida just to get used to the humidity and, you know, just to be able to play in this extremely hot condition. 
 You know, all the hard work just pays off today and I'm just feel happy. 

 Q. What was the most difficult moment to get this medal during this week? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think, you know, from the beginning we were all in a very difficult condition, you know, because of the weather. We were staying very late. You know, I remember my first match finishing midnight. I got back to my room at 2 in the morning. You know, get to sleep at 3 in the morning. You know, it was very difficult for all of us, all the matches playing at, you know, midnight, 11:00, 1:00. 
 Some players were able to play, you know, singles and doubles in one day. It was really tough physically and mentally to stay focused. For the recovery process, it was tough. 
 But today on the court I think it was the most difficult match for me against Dinara because I think she's playing at her best. You know, she's the hottest player on the tour for the moment. It was really difficult to return her serve. You know, especially after losing first set, you know, to stay positive, you know, just keep doing the right thing, not to get too emotional, to think about every point. 
 Well, I was able to get through. 

 Q. You won second place during the two Grand Slams. Today is your first gold during the Olympics. What are your future plans in terms of the US Open and the preparation? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I just want to enjoy the moment. It means so much more to me than winning a Grand Slam. I know it's a Grand Slam coming up, you know, in New York. But, I mean, this is what I was waiting for. This is what I was working for. So I just want to enjoy the moment. 
 I know the season, it's not over yet for a tennis player. But this is the biggest moment in this year for me. Well, I just want to take some time to celebrate it. 

 Q. Do you think it will be difficult to find another goal as high as this one?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: What do you mean? 

 Q. Do you think you will find another goal?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Oh, goal. It's a good question. It's a good question because I'm not sure that I'm gonna play another Olympic Games, you know. So that was the biggest goal in my career. Right now, I just -- I don't know what to be dream about it really. 
 I mean, there are a lot of thing that I can achieve, you know, in tennis, by winning a Grand Slam, become No. 1. But there is nothing compared to the gold medal, nothing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT