WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2008
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  V. WILLIAMS/E. Dementieva  
6-1, 7-6  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. That first set, what were you thinking when you came out and Venus was playing like that?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I expected, you know, such a good game from her because she's the defending champion. Well, I think she started really well. You know, in the beginning of the match she really dominated, put a lot of pressure on my serve.   
 You know, she was serving unbelievably well, so it was really hard to just make her play.   
  
  Q. You had never played her before on grass. How would you describe her as a grass court player?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think the surface really suits to her game because she doesn't like to play long rallies. She doesn't like, you know, just to play long matches. So it's an excellent surface for her.   
 She likes to hit hard. She has a good serve. So I think this is her favorite surface.   
  
  Q. And what did you say to yourself after that first set to get yourself pumped up for the second?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I knew she's not gonna play like that the whole match. I was just trying to make her play, keep the ball in the game.   
 Because, I mean, as much as she plays, the more she gets tight. As you could see in the second set, she was really, really tight in the end of the match.   
 So I had some opportunity to break a couple of times. It was a completely different game.   
  
  Q. What about your own game on grass? When you come back next year, what do you think you have to improve on to take that extra step?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, for sure I need to improve my serve and I need to go more to the net to finish the points. Just the take the opportunity of the surface, you know, and make it short and nice.   
 But I feel more comfortable right now playing on grass.   
  
  Q. Do you think the Williams sisters have struck the right formula in that they don't play every tournament, they just peak for the Grand Slams? Have they found a better formula for playing tennis in the long-term?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I don't know. I mean, you have to ask them. Maybe they wish to play tournaments, but maybe they are not ready for so many.   
  
  Q. If it is an all-Williams final, how do you see it?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I mean, if they're going to play against each other, I mean, I don't know what to say. I mean, I cannot imagine myself playing against someone from my family. It's really hard. For sure it's going to be a family decision.   
  
  Q. Why can't you imagine it, and what do you think it says about them that they have been able to manage it?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think it's really hard for them because they both are great players and they both deserve to win. There is only one trophy here, so, I mean, it's a shame. But if they play the same tournaments they have to face it sometimes.   
 Well, I think it's a very tough situation.   
  
  Q. What do you think it says about their relationship, their closeness, that even though they've played against each other on the grand stages so many times and they are still are so close?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah, I think they are very close and very supportive of each other, which is very good. I mean, they're very professional, you know. When they are on the court they're trying to play, to fight.   
 But, I mean, in the end the family is more important to them, and they keep a very nice relationship, as I can see.   
  
  Q. When you say it's a family decision, do you mean they're going to sit down and decide who the winner's going to be?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I don't know how it's gonna be because. I mean, I have never faced that situation in my life so, I mean, it's really hard for me to say. But I just don't know.   
  
  Q. Why don't they just go out like two other players and let the best player win?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, maybe it will be like that, yeah.   
  
  Q. Will you be watching the final if it is Venus versus Serena, and what do you think will be going through your mind? What will you be looking for as you watch it?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think for sure it's going to be an entertainment match. I mean, we're gonna see lots of emotion and lots of, you know, good play.   
 But, well, I really think it's more interesting to see one of the sisters playing against someone else.  
  
  Q. Why?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, because, like I said, they know each other very well. They practice all the time. I mean, they know their game very well. So maybe there is not so much fight in the end of all.   
  
  Q. Do you think that perhaps unlike two other opponents, they're less willing to battle against each other and be aggressive?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I mean, it's a Wimbledon final. For sure, we're going to see some battle. They will play a long match. They will enjoy the moment.   
 But I think we could see a better game, I mean, if one of the sister has to face someone else.  
  
  Q. It makes it a bit boring for tennis, do you think?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I don't think it's boring to watch them because I think they both are great players. I mean, they're playing a very high level.   
 It would be an interesting match for the crowd, I think, to watch. Yeah, but like in a competition it would be nice to see someone else maybe.   
  
  Q. The last time they played just this year it went deep into the third set, a close tiebreak. That would indicate a pretty interesting match.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah. I think maybe, I mean, if they have to face each other in the final, we're also going to see a tiebreak in the third. Well, not a tiebreak, but a very close match.   
 Because, like I said, they know each other very well. It's easy for them to make an interesting and, you know, very close match.   
  
  Q. Last year Andy Roddick was talking about how many Grand Slams he would have won if Federer was not around. We know you have a problem with your serve. How many slams do you think you would have won if you had a really strong serve?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think Andy has one of the strongest serve on the tour, and he is out in the beginning of the first week here. So probably it's not only about the serve or how well you can serve.   
 I mean, it's a game and something more. It's not an exhibition for your serve. I have something more and stronger in my game than, you know, that I play on the top level for so many years.   
 So I don't think this way. I don't think the serve will take me to the top.   
  
  Q. Was the fact that you had played a couple of three-set matches, compared to Venus who had had straight sets all the way to the semifinal, do you think that was a factor in this match?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: No, not at all. I was feeling really ready to play. I was so ready. If she would give me a chance not serving like that, like 121, 125 the whole match, I would be able to make something, you know, better than today.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT