SONY ERICSSON OPEN
April 2, 2008
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. When did the injury start occurring? Is it the lower back? Is that what you're talking about?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah, it just started yesterday, and I was just having problem with the back.

 Q. So before you even stepped on court today you were concerned about it?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yes. I started to feel it yesterday.

 Q. How did it hinder you out there? Just in every shot or just certain shots?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: No, it was difficult to play when you have something, and, you know, it really bothered me during the games, so... 

 Q. Was the double fault or just the score of the match just kind of the final breaking point to say, It's not worth it anymore today or what kind of finally caused you to... 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I couldn't play because I felt like it was just getting worse, the back problem. 

 Q. How many hours of, like, medical treatment did you get in the last day, since it hurt you? Like what did you do to try to get on the court?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I tried to do some treatment, you know, to get some massage to relieve the pain, but it didn't help me a lot.

 Q. Is this a recurring injury? Is this new this year?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: No, it's new. I think it's just coming from playing hardcourts, and I never had it before.

 Q. Jelena's been storming through this tournament. What impressed you the most about the way she played you today?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I mean, she is a very consistent player. That's the way she's playing for the last few years.
 It didn't surprise me. She's in good shape, and you can see it from the first point. I think she has a good chance to go all the way here, she likes to play on hard and she's in good shape.

 Q. What specifically though makes you think she can make a run and win the whole thing?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think she's, you know, she has the whole package of the game. She's moving well, has a good forehand, backhand. Whole game is very solid. She's very relaxed on the court and enjoys playing. She's a very tough opponent.

 Q. Do you feel like you two almost have identical games? Neither one has a really strong serve, but you both have like wonderful baseline strokes. Is it very similar to Jelena?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: No, I don't think we play a similar game. No, I think we play good from the baseline, but I don't think we play similar.

 Q. How disappointed are you in today?
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I'm disappointing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT