PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 24, 2007
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  How are you feeling?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Well, I just feel a little sick.  You know, I think it was really humid and hot out there.  We just had a very physical game from the first point.  Lots of long rallies and really aggressive game.   
 So yeah, I just think it was tough because I had such a different weather the whole week.  And then with the really weather difference today it was feeling really tough to play on these circumstances.   
  
  Q.  When did you start feeling bad?  Was it in the third set?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Actually after I won the first set it was tough to play, because like I said, it was very physical and it was very hot out there.  So I just didn't feel like I have enough energy to continue to play.   
  
  Q.  Do you find yourself, when you're playing Svetlana, raising your game a little bit?  Because you guys seem to have similar careers if you look at the titles, the amount of money, you're both from Russia.  Is there a sense that you want to beat her more than somebody else sometimes?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Well, no matter who you play you just want to win.  You just want to win a title.  But for me it's always very interesting to play against her because she has a great game and can cover the whole court and she moves well.   
 We have all the time very interesting games.  I lost so many times to her.  So for me it's really interesting to play against somebody I lost and try to do something else, you know, try to win.   
  
  Q.  You were serving so well in the first set and then by the third set things had gone downhill.  What happened there, and was it the illness part of that?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Well, I just think it's really about how focus I stay on my serve, you know, because in the first set I started well.  I was serving well.  And then when I just get a little bit tired, you know, I didn't pay attention too much on my serve and I did some double faults.   
 So I think it's all about, you know, staying focus and take my time before I go on my service game.   
  
  Q.  Is that the first time that kind of thing happened to you?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, I think so.  I don't remember that I was retired because of the heat, no.   
  
  Q.  Talk about that point in the third set where she ripped the winner by you and you kind of went down and just took a seat for a little while.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Well, like we had so many good rallies in that point I felt like I did all I could.  I did really my best, but she was just playing better.  Well, it's really tough, you know, because I feel like I was playing well, you know, I was doing everything right.   
 Maybe I just I was staying a little far away from the baseline, especially in the second set, so I was moving much more than her.  She was just, you know, staying inside and saving some energy for the third set.   
 Well, but there is something to learn from this loss.   
  
  Q.  What makes her so tough?  Does she seem to get better the more she plays?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  She's a very strong athlete, and I know that she likes to run and she likes to move.  But I think today she was really physically maybe stronger than me.   
  
  Q.  Are you two close off the court?  Do you share much beyond tennis?  Are you close friends?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, we have a good relationship.  We play Fed Cup together and practice sometimes together.  Yeah, we know each other pretty good.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT