PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 23, 2007
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  How were you able to rebound from 4-Love down? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Well, I just -- I don't know.  Maybe I was inspired with James Blake saving three match points, or maybe I had a slow start because of that.  Because I was ready to go like one hour before we started our match.  Just had a slow start.  It was very difficult to get to the game. 
 But I was trying just to find the rhythm and fight for ever point, just to get the rhythm of the game, you know, and when I found it I just start to play better. 

 Q.  How do you consider the level of your game after that, when you started to really play well after 4-Love? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Well, I was trying, you know, to stay aggressive.  I was trying to move her.  I know that she likes to stay inside the court so it's very important to play deep against her.  I was trying to do the right thing on the court, even though it seems like it's -- wasn't good enough in the beginning.  I was trying to stay on the game and the game plan, and that really was helping me. 

 Q.  Did the hard court give you an advantage over her? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Well, I think it's very difficult to play against someone like her on grass courts because she plays flat, you know, she hit every point.  I mean, she take the angle.  It's very difficult to return the ball when you play on grass and the ball had a different bounce. 
 I feel more comfortable playing on hard against her. 

 Q.  When you went to change your clothes, I think it was after the first set, her coach came out.  I was wondering if you noticed anything different that she was doing? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Well, I think she was a little bit upset after the first set because she was 4-Love up, and it's never easy to come back afterwards.  But, I mean, she was playing -- sh was trying to play her game.  Maybe she was not very fresh today and I just took advantage of it. 

 Q.  How are you feeling with your game overall after this summer? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Well, maybe, you know, I didn't play my best today but I feel like, you know, every match gives me some confidence, and it's very important before US Open.  So hopefully I'm going play better tomorrow. 
 I play against Svetlana, which is No. 1 seed here and it's going to be a tough match.  But I'm glad I could get to the semis and try one more time to get to the finals here. 

 Q.  The last few years you've been so consistent, and this last six months a little bit up and down.  Has that been because you're changing parts of your game or working on different things? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I think it's difficult to come back after injury and after a break.  Well, it's never easy.  It takes some time, before I start to feel more confident and you know, really play my game. 
 The most important thing is that I feel healthy now and trying to play better tennis. 

 Q.  Are you feeling happy with your serve?  I haven't seen you play live for a long time, but it looks like it's much more fluid a motion. 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Well, it's not as good as I want it, but I think it's getting a little better, especially on my first serve.  I have to do some more work on the second one, but it seems like it's getting better. 

 Q.  When you work on such an important part of your game, is it difficult to concentrate on work on everything else as well? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Well, I think the most difficult is not to go for many (indiscernible) when you practice, because otherwise you can forget how to play.  I have to be focus, you know, on the whole game and not to think about only your serve and what you want to do on your service game. 
 I think for me that was something to improve.  There is something to improve on my service, and that's what I'm working on.  It's really helped me when it's going well. 

 Q.  I know you and Svetlana have played each other many times before.  Does that help or hurt?  What kind of an impact does that have. 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Well, it definitely helps when you know the player and know how to play against her.  Doesn't get any easier because I know she's a very tough player.  Last time we played here I lost. 
 For me it's another chance.  I know that she has a powerful game and great forehand and she moves well.  So it's going to be a tough match, but I'm looking forward. 

 Q.  You and your fellow Russians, you seem to like New Haven.  Is there a reason why y'all play so well? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Well, I think most of the Russian players like to play on hard courts because we have aggressive game and it really suits to our game.  But I think there is nothing better than having a tournament before US Open and play the same surface, the same balls, and just get the confidence, get the game, so this is good. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT