INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (WOMEN)
May 17, 2007
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  You've been having physical problems too.  How is everything going now? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I feel much better.  I had a stress fracture in three different ribs and it took me some time to recover and, you know, come back to the tour, and I feel much better now. 

 Q.  Can you see why did he ask you about your physical condition? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, injured too.  I'm so sorry. 

 Q.  I don't have to chase dropshots though.  Is this a break for you?  Would you have liked to have played longer today? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah.  Definitely I would like to play longer.  I was looking forward to this match especially after Berlin. 
 For me to play against someone like Nadia it's really a good experience, you know, and I feel sorry that we finish this way, but sometimes it's happen. 

 Q.  It looks like your English is very nice.  Somebody told me you speak fluent French; is that true? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I speak a little bit. 

 Q.  They told me you had a degree. 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I finished the French school in Moscow. 

 Q.  You've been asked this a number of times, but are we going to see more and more and more Russians in this game? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Well, I think so.  We have a lot of young coming players, especially in juniors, who are playing extremely well right now.  Tennis is getting very, very popular in Russia every year.  Yeah, I'm sure we're going to see some more Russian players coming up. 

 Q.  Part two:  Does that keep you eager and alert looking back there and seeing all these kids coming? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Well, I'm not looking that back, you know.  I mean, I have enough girls to play with.  You know, we have a very tough competition between all of us, and this is what keep us, you know, working hard and improving our game.  This is really help us to be a better player. 

 Q.  Do you agree with my friend Ana?  I said to her, How come there are so many good Russian players?  And Ana said to me, But it is the family.  The really motivation comes from the family. 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Well, I think it's very important in the beginning to have someone who can support you, who can push you a little bit, because when you're young it's hard to have enough motivation and it's hard to make a choice. 
 So with me it was all my parents' decision and it was my mom's desire to, you know, for me to play tennis.  Yes, I think that the parents, they done a great job helping us indifferent ways. 

 Q.  What is a name of a young Russian players for the future?  Do you see anybody who plays very well for the next years? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Well, it's really hard to say, especially when we're talking about women's tennis. 

 Q.  Also the young players. 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I think we have Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova who's number ones in junior tennis.  I think is she's a very good. 

 Q.  Pavlyuchenkova? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yes, she's very good. 

 Q.  (From Italian) Talking about your mother, who's here on the court and off the court.  Is it very close relationship?  Could you go on playing without her?  Could you win without her?  Or is it really very symbiotic between you? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Well, I think I can play without her and win something without her, but it's better to be with her because she's my biggest supporter.  She always travels with me and helps me from the beginning of my career. 
 It's very important for me to have her with me, so, yeah.  But I had some tournaments without her like Olympic games when I won the silver medal and we won a Fed Cup without her, but it's much better to be with her. 

 Q.  Is she a good player? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Well, she used to play when she was young and she really loves tennis.  That's why I'm playing. 

 Q.  A student of the game as well as a player? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Well, she didn't play professionally, she was playing for fun, yeah. 

 Q.  After the big results you already had, which is the goal of this year for yourself?  I mean, you have a tournament in your mind?  You have a result in your mind, or ranking? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Well, I can't pick one particular tournament.  You know, every time I come to play I want to win no matter what kind of tournament I'm playing.  I don't set any goals for the year. 
 My biggest goal is to become No. 1.  And I don't know when it's going happen, but as long as I believe I can keep playing and trying this is the biggest goal for me. 

 Q.  When a press conference finish and the journalists don't ask about your serve, which sort of relief do you have? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Well, my serve -- well, you know, I know it's something to improve.  I think it's getting better, but yeah, definitely I need to get, I think, more confidence on my service game. 
 You know, I think it's has been a problem for a long period of time for me, but I keep working on it. 

 Q.  Yeah.  But you can't give me the last answer about that, because someone says you have a problem, a physical problem there and cannot do something. 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  No. 

 Q.  Because you are talking with yourself about the moment, you are thinking too much, what? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Maybe I'm thinking too much because you guys asking me every time I see you.  It's hard to get away from this problem. 

 Q.  So you give an answer that you just don't think about it.  We never hear about why your boyfriend or your husband or whatever.  Why?  Because he doesn't exist?  You didn't met the ideal man or you don't want to show him in any way? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Well, because this is my private life and I like to keep it private. 

 Q.  We are curious.  We are journalists. 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I like to keep it private. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT