SONY ERICSSON CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 10, 2006
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Hello, Elena.  Could you please describe your feelings about this game and about your performance in the whole tournament?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Well, I knew it was going to be my last match of the year.  So you know I was trying to play a little bit better than yesterday and the day before.   
 And I think I did it but I couldn't play my best during this day, unfortunately.  And very enjoying to be here and I hope to come back next year here and play much better tennis.   
  
  Q.  Elena, are you going to take some time maybe, maybe a few weeks, to try to think about what's going wrong with your participation on the championships at the end of the year?  Because the last three years I think you not have any win and maybe it's the time of the year that this may be too late for your physical performance or what do you think about this?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Well, I don't really think it's too late.  I think that there is nothing I can do with the date of this tournament.  So I have to be ready to play in November if I want to win the championship.  But I think that sometimes I just have, you know, so much expectation coming here and maybe I was already excited to come here and trying to play my best.  Sometimes, you know, I just think that maybe I need to just to take it easy, be focused on the first game and not to play my best, because sometimes it's just getting me too tight during the game and didn't really allow to play my best tennis.   
  
  Q.  This season is over, what are your main goals for next season?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I think it's too early to think about the next season.  I'm just happy it's over for this year.  I think it was a good season for me and I just needed some quiet time with my family, I just need a break and I will try to improve my game for the next season.  Will try to go win something big like a Grand Slam.  But it's always been a goal for every year that I'm playing.   
  
  Q.  Elena, with the composition of the two semifinals you played Kim and you played Maria, what do you think the next thing is going to be in this tournament?  Who is for you the tournament favorite right now?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Well, I think that Maria and Justine, they both are favorite to win this tournament.  I think they're both in great shape.  And it's very hard to say because it's going to be a tough match in the semifinals for both of them but I'm sure we're going to see them in the final.   
  
  Q.  Elena the crowd loved you how long that helped you in the match during the tournament?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I really enjoyed to play here.  I felt like people really supported me from the first match.  And I was really wanted to play my best, and you know just feel very sad it's over for me, and I am really able to do everything that's possible to be ready for the next year.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT