U.S. OPEN
September 3, 2010
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. DEMENTIEVA/D. Hantuchova
  7-5, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Can you just talk about the way you felt you played today.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Um, I feel I had a very slow start, and I have feeling that the center court is a bit faster than the outside courts. Even with the warmup today on the center court, it really took me some time to get used to the surface.   
 So, yeah, I was able to come back after 5-2, and that was the key to the match. I started to play more aggressive match, and much better, started to play much better tennis.  
  
  Q. You have Sam in the next round. You've beaten her more times than she's beaten you in the past. Do you take that into consideration going forward? Just talk about the matchup ahead.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, it's always good to have, you know, positive experience against a player, but I think it's gonna be different match. We haven't played for a long time, and Samantha really improve her game a lot. She's playing very well this season, you know, finalist in the French Open.  
 You know, she's a very solid player with a huge serve, and, yeah, I expect a tough match against her.  
  
  Q. How much relief is it when, with the bad weather forecast, to get your match done and know that you're done and probably by Sunday the weather will be good again and you don't have to deal with delays or anything?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: It was so strange, because like since last evening we all were talking about how bad it's gonna be today.  
 You know, coming to the stadium, I was like looking at the window, expecting where is the rain? Where is the wind?   
 You know, playing in absolutely perfect conditions this morning, you know. (Laughter.) Even with two drops that we had in the first set, you know.   
 I talked to Daniela after the match, and I was like, It was like sunshine. We didn't expect any rain there. So, yeah, it always feels good to be first on and be able to finish the match just before the rain.  
  
  Q. You had this incredible streak of slams prior to Wimbledon of nonstop slams, not missing any. How differently do you approach the slams looking back compared to when you were first breaking in on tour?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I have a great experience playing in Grand Slams, some good results here in New York and also the French Open.  
 But every time it comes, every time it's exciting, every time it's different.  
 Sure, I do remember every time I was playing, you know, here and any other Grand Slams. But, I mean, every year it's a different challenge, so it's hard to compare it. It's all new. It's all different.  
  
  Q. Is there more of a sense of urgency now, or do you not think of it that way?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: No, I don't put any pressure on myself. I have very successful career so far, and I definitely looking for the big title, but, you know, I'm just trying to -- just trying to work on my game.  
 This is the most important, because there's always something to improve. There's always something to work on. You know, if it comes, it comes.  
  
  Q. We see your mother as a coach, but how do you work physically?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: You mean fitness?   
  
  Q. Yes, fitness.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah, I do have -- well, I don't have a fitness coach. I have some other people working with me, but my mom, she's definitely the one who's traveled with me. That's the person that I feel more comfortable with.   
 So fitness is a big part of my game, and, you know, physically I feel pretty good playing all these years on the tour.  
 So I always take, you know, lots of time during the offseason to get ready physically before I start my practice.  
  
  Q. To what degree do you think you're sometimes overlooked? Even here with Serena out, other players are talked about so much as contenders for the title. Do you think some people might be missing you?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Um, I don't really think about that. I'm sure that people -- fans in New York really miss Serena because she's always, you know, one of the favorites to win this title, and people love to watch her here.   
 I think even for the players it's so much better when she is playing. Just a great experience, great challenge to play against her.  
 So I just feel sorry for her that she's not here.  
  
  Q. How bad as far as the respect for you and your game and the accomplishments you've had? Do you think sometimes people sometimes overlook you?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I don't think about that at all. I don't care.  
  
  Q. Do you ever ask your mother to be a little more calm when she's watching, or...   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I always ask her, but I realize it's very difficult to watch and not be able to help. She's very emotional, and she really wants me to win.   
 So it's kind of hard, because she's not only my coach, she's my mom. Well, I guess it's just very emotional for her.  
  
  Q. Does she know that she's very good on television? Because she looks so...   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: She hates when, you know, the camera goes on her. (Laughter.) She hates it.  
  
  Q. But did you notice the new camera in Ashe at all today, the new playing camera that's above the stadium?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah, I saw that when I was tossing the ball. I was kind of... I was kind of not ready for this, because when you have like few balls on your serve, it can be a little bit distracting.  
  
  Q. Also, you're aware that that's considered a permanent fixture, apparently, so if you should strike that you lose the point?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: No, but I think, you know, it's gonna be beautiful view from this camera, and for sure people will enjoy it to watch, you know, from this point of view to the stadium. Well, if it's gonna be nice, then that's okay.  
  
  Q. Back to Sam, her serve obviously is a big part of her game. Has she got the best serve in the women's game, except for maybe Serena?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Right, I agree. Samantha, Serena, they both have a very powerful serve, and especially second serve. They have such a good kick. The women don't usually have this.  
 Yeah, it's always very difficult to play against her. She puts a lot of pressure on you when she's serving. But also, I think she's very solid on the baseline, and, you know, very experienced player, singles and doubles.   
 She covers the court very well and, you know, can finish the point at the net. She has a great variety to her game. It's never easy to play against her.  
  
  Q. Caroline Wozniacki, do you think she's a different player now compared to the last year?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah, I'm sure she has more experience now, and more comfortable, you know, in her game.  
 Um, I think she improve her game a lot. Her serve is much better now. She puts, you know, more spin on the second serve. So she's very difficult to play with because moving very well, playing everything back, but also waiting for the opportunity to attack the ball. Very solid player.  
  
  Q. You've had some injuries this year. Are you feeling right now injury-free?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah, I feel much better now, yeah.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT