US OPEN
August 28, 2006
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Elena.  
   
  Q.  How long have you been wearing the wrap on your leg?  What sort of a season has it been for you for injuries, aches, and pains?  
  ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Well, I think I was pretty lucky this year.  You know, I didn't have lots of injuries.  Just some little problems.  You know, just like this one, I just have a little strain in my muscle.  I'm wearing this tape just to support, just like a prevention.  
  It doesn't bother me during the game.  
   
  Q.  How does it feel to be back here?  You've done well here.  Do you feel a great energy here?  
  ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, I love New York.  It's nice to be back, play here.  I was waiting for this tournament for a long time because it's nice to be back.  I've had so many good matches playing in this stadium.  
  Every time I'm here, I'm trying to play my best.  It just feel like the crowd really supporting me well.  So I'm just trying to put a little extra more every time I'm on the court.  
   
  Q.  How important is it to get off to a start like you did here?  
  ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  It was not an easy match to play, I'm telling you.  With the rain delay and yesterday we couldn't practice.  So it was very difficult, especially in the beginning of the match, to get to your rhythm, just to start to play well.  
  We never play against each other, so that was even more difficult.  So I'm very glad I could finish in two sets and save some energy for the next match.  
   
  Q.  Did you like the US Open from the first time you came?  
  ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I remember first time I came here, I think I lost in first round from quallies.  Then the next year I was in the semifinals.  It's become one of my favorite tournament.  Every time I'm coming here, you know, I really feel like this is a great event.  I feel this atmosphere very much.  
   
  Q.  You're comfortable in New York?  
  ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Well, I love New York.  New York reminds me of Moscow a little bit.  I was born in Moscow.  I really love big cities.  I like to feel this energy.  I like city full of people.  
  I mean, this is a very unique city.  Even when you're driving to the court it's nice to be in the car and just look around, because every building is huge and it's unique.  
   
  Q.  There's also a fair amount of Russian population here, particularly in the Coney Island area.  
  ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  There are lot of Russian here.  Even when I'm playing, I can hear, you know, lots of Russian coming to support Russian players.  Yeah, I think lots of Russian people live in New York.  
   
  Q.  How important is it to have gotten so close here?  Does it raise your expectations of yourself here?  Would it be not satisfying to get to a quarterfinal at this point?  
  ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Well, for sure, once you are in the final you're never satisfied with the final again.  You're just looking for something more.  
  But I have no regrets.  I enjoying every single time that I was playing here.  I love every single moment.  I love my semis, my final against Svetlana.  I just hope this experience will help me this time or next time.  I mean, I was pretty close to win this title, so I'm just trying one more time.  
   
  Q.  That makes you all the more hungrier to try to come back and do it?  
  ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Well, it's nice to have this motivation.  When you never won, you're just trying so hard.  This extra motivation really gives you a lot of power when you're playing.  
   
  Q.  When you play, do you have any superstitions or any prematch rituals you like to do?  Does your mother have any for you?  
  ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  My mom does a lot of superstitions.  Me?  Not.  I'm just trying to be more positive no matter what I see.  If I see a 13 number around me, I'm still trying to be positive.  But she's a very superstition person.  
   
  Q.  What does she do?  
  ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Well, she never likes to wear something new for a match.  She is wearing the same T-shirt if I'm winning.  She likes to go to the same restaurant if I'm winning.  It's pretty hard.  
   
  Q.  She washes the shirt, though, right?  
  ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yes.  
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT