PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 18, 2006
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  What were you thinking this time down 5-2?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I think it was very difficult to play today.  I think Maria, she was able to handle the situation and play with the wind better today.  No, usually I just feel sad when the competition is -- you know, when the tournament is finished, but not this time.  I'm glad it's over because I just feel it was too much on me.  I was playing so many hours on the court and I feel just a little tired today.   
 But was difficult to play.  But I still feel like it was a great tournament for me, big win yesterday.  Even that I lost today 6-1, 6-2, I feel like I have a game to beat her - but not today.   
  Q.  Where is the wind coming from?  The side?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  It doesn't really matter.  I don't know.   
  Q.  Was it just the wind that caused the problem?  Were you mentally prepared?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Oh, yeah, yeah.  I was mentally prepared.  I wanted to play against her.  I wanted to face her in Tokyo.  I wanted to play her here.  For me it's interesting.  It's a great challenge for me to play against Maria.   
 Just like I said, I feel I wasn't at my best today, and she was playing great.  You know, I'm going to wait for the next time and I'll try to do better.   
  Q.  Two games in particular, the second game in each set, were very long games.  Did they take anything out of you?  Did they make you feel even more tired?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  No, I don't think so.  You know, I don't think that that was one particular game that really changed something.  Yeah, I could take advantage of, you know, some of the game when I was 40-Love up, but I couldn't this time.   
 Yeah, I just don't think it was my day today.   
  Q.  When you woke up this morning, how did you feel?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, like I said, I was very happy to be in the final, but was a little tired.  It's difficult, you know, to be tired and to play against Maria because you know how powerful she is and you really have to play your best to beat her.   
 Yeah, but I have no regrets.  I feel it was a good tournament for me.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT