PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 16, 2006
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  You have a good record in three sets.  You've won three matches and lost only one.  I would like to know why you play so well at the end of the match and win the third set?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, I just feel like I'm a very slow starter.  You know, I usually started really to play well when I'm in trouble, like it's happen today when I was one set, 1-Love down.  Just started to play a little bit more aggressively.  I think I have to learn how to do it from the beginning of the match, so I can save some energy for the semifinal, for the final, you know, not to spend so many hours on the court playing my first matches in the tournament.   
  Q.  Have you always had a slow beginning?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yes.  I think I start very slow and she put a lot of pressure on me today.  In the beginning of the game, she was playing very good.  It was a little bit surprising because, you know, I've never played against Ana before.  She was really aggressive, especially her serve.   
 But I'm glad I was able to change the situation, you know, just to start to be more aggressive myself, to move her around the court, just to find a way to win.   
  Q.  Were you at all having problems with your shoulder?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  No, I don't have any problems.   
  Q.  It looked like you were?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  No, by playing three sets, you just get tight, which is normal.  You're trying to relax a little bit, especially before I'm going to serve, just to do some little stretching.  Usually when you play against such a powerful player at Ana, you get tight.  I was playing very defensive in the first set.  I was trying just to loosen up myself a little bit and start to play actually my game.   
  Q.  What are your hopes for this year?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  The biggest focus for me is a Grand Slam tournament.  I was very disappointed with my performance in the Australian Open, you know, losing first round.  You know, I just hope that the next -- the French Open will be much better for me.   
 You know, I just don't really have such a big goal.  You know, I'm trying to be the best one.  I'm trying to get No. 1 position in the ranking.  But I'm not thinking about any particular tournament.  I'm trying to be focused on every match I'm playing.   
  Q.  If you're trying to get the No. 1 ranking, wouldn't you say that's a pretty big goal?  You said you didn't have a very big goal.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, if I would think this is such a big goal, I would never make it.  I think that I can do it, you know, in the future.  I don't know how soon I can be No. 1.  But I really believe I can be.   
 As long as I believe in it, I'm keep working, I'm keep practicing and I'm keep playing tennis.  For me, this is the biggest motivation.   
  Q.  What comes over you in the third set of matches?  You're so dominant in three-set matches.    
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I don't know.  You know, I just -- when I go on the court, I'm not thinking about what's the score.  I'm just thinking about the game, what can I do to win this match.  For me it's really doesn't matter if I'm playing first, second or third.  I'm just trying to be positive, win every single point that I'm playing.  For me it's a game.  If it takes three sets, okay, that's fine with me.   
 I think she's young.  I mean, she's only 18 years old.  I think she can learn a lot, how to stay positive, but it comes with experience.  I was very impressed with the way she was playing today.  I think she's a very powerful player.   
  Q.  So your mindset doesn't really change in the third set?  You have the same tactics in the third set as you do in the first two?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  There's always one or two tactics for the game, but I was not able to do it in the first set because she was, like I said, putting a lot of pressure on me and I was not able to do what I wanted.  I was not able to move her.   
 In the second and third, I started to move around the court.  I started to be more aggressive.  That was the point of the game.   
  Q.  You got very frustrated at times in the second set, going for big serves even on your second serve, some double-faults at the end, but quickly recovered mentally.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I mean, I used to do it my whole life.  I mean, yeah, sometimes I'm just trying to go two times for the first serve just to find the rhythm of the serve.  I don't like when people attack me from my second serve, so I'm just trying just to hit the ball.   
 Yeah, my serve wasn't great today, but it's not about the serve.   
  Q.  So even if you know you might lose a point, you're hitting your first serve?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, I don't care.   
  Q.  I could see that.  Bang, in the net, you just moved on.  Are you telling yourself, "I don't want her to attack me, so... "   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, I don't want that people -- my second serve, people can go for the winner, and I just don't want this.   
  Q.  Do you think someday maybe now you'll be hitting two first serves all the time?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I don't know (smiling).  No, I just wish I can learn how to do the second one.   
  Q.  In your own evaluation of yourself and your game, your competitive ability, mentally as well as physically and technically, what is the missing ingredient in terms of making the breakthrough to the very top?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  To the top?   
  Q.  The very top, yeah.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, it's very hard to say what bring you to the top because, you know, it's really what comes with so many different things.  You have to be physically, mentally strong.  You need to have a good, you know, technique, otherwise you're going to be injured very often.   
 There are a lot of things you really have to work on it.  Sometimes it's about the moment, you know.  You can, you know, just find a good moment, you know, put all you have and you can make it.  It's very difficult to say.  I think it's very personal for everyone.   
  Q.  Is Justine considered by yourself and a lot of the players to be the most mentally tough person when she's healthy?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, probably she's the toughest one on the tour.  I was very surprised that she was not able to finish her Australian Open final because I know how tough she can be on the court.  She's always played no matter what, no matter how bad she's feeling.  She's such a great fighter.   
 Yeah, to play against her, it's always very difficult.  Not only because of her power and, you know, how fast she is, it's because of her mental part that she's very strong.   
  Q.  Assuming you play her, she's a big favorite against Dulko, if you want to get to No. 1, mentally you're going to have to be there the whole time.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Well, yeah, that's right.  I'm glad I have a chance to play against her if she wins today because for me it's going to be great experience.  I'm trying to be No. 1 by, you know, beating everyone, not by the good moment.  It's really important to play against such a good player as Justine and try to win tomorrow.  So for me it's going to be a good experience.   
  Q.  Do you think she has more variety in her game than maybe anyone?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I think the most powerful thing about her, she is very fast.  She's very fast.  She has a great serve.  She has the whole game is pretty solid.  Yeah, she can do almost everything.  She can serve and volley.  She has a good slice, one-handed backhand.  Yeah, I think she's -- she has a great variety in the game.   
  Q.  What is your coaching situation?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Coaching situation?  I'm working with my mom.   
  Q.  Is she traveling with you?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yes.   
  Q.  Have you ever thought about going with another coach, trying to get somebody to bring something new in the game?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Not for the moment, no.   
  Q.  What is it like being with your mother, not 24/7, but so much of the time?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  It's almost 24/7 (smiling).  Yeah, but I think, you know, I couldn't do it if she wouldn't be my best friend.  She's a really big support for me.  You know, sometimes when I have to go without her to the tournament, like to play a Fed Cup or Olympic Games, I just feel like I miss her a lot.  It's a great feeling to have someone around you who really care about you and who is always, you know, there for you.  So for me it's important to travel with her.   
  Q.  So you don't have too many difficult mother/daughter conflicts?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  No, we don't.  Sometimes we have a fight.  Sometimes we can argue against each other, with each other, about the situation during the match or the match that I played badly.  But it's okay.  I mean, that's the process.  It's not always she tells me, I'm doing it.  It's a all about talking and find the right decision.   
  Q.  Are your personalities pretty similar?  You're honest and outspoken.  How is she?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  How is she (smiling)?  Yeah, I guess I'm pretty much like her.   
  Q.  If you go out to dinner with a bunch of players or friends, do you invite your mother along?  Do you feel guilty for not inviting her?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  My mom?   
  Q.  Yes.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  With me?   
  Q.  Yes.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  People are usually very surprised when they see me without my mom.  They're always, "Where is your mom?  She's not with you?  What's wrong?"  When I'm playing San Diego, she always stay home because she loves gardening so much, and that's a good time for her to stay home in the country village.  Everyone, every single player comes to me, "Where is your mom?  You broke up?  You don't work together any more or what?"   
 No, but yeah, I think like everyone, you know, sometimes we need a break, she needs some quiet time without me, without tennis, because it's very stressful for her to be with me and watch a match like this one by sitting one place, not being able to help me.   
 Yeah, sometimes she needs a break.   
  Q.  If you get together and go out with friends, does your mom come along?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Not always.   
  Q.  Are you still hitting with your brother at all?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  He may come with me.  He works in Moscow, he's an engineer.  He plays tennis.  He plays actually pretty good.  So sometimes he comes with me to help me because he's such a big fan.   
  Q.  Does that also help, just having him around?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  You know, it's so nice to have your family with you.  It's such a big help, especially when you travel every week and you miss your home, your family, your friends.  It's very important that someone from your family can come and be around you, you know, just to feel this warm atmosphere that you are very relaxed.  It's really difficult to travel with someone who is not from your family.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT