PILOT PEN TENNIS AT YALE
August 27, 2010
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/E. Dementieva
  1-6, 6-3, 7-6 
   
  Q. So obviously it's always tough to lose a match like that. You started so well. What sort of happened at the start of the second set to turn it around?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Well, I think in the beginning of the game she was missing lots of balls. Maybe she was a little nervous. I was playing pretty solid.   
 The second set, she was playing very aggressively. She was putting a lot of pressure on my serve. She was able to break me a couple of times. So, yeah, I was trying to stay in the game. But I lost pretty easy.   
 We had a great fight in the third set. I had so much opportunity. I was serving for the set. I couldn't close the match.   
 But I feel it was a good match overall, lots of good rallies. She is a great defender, she plays everything back. Just a very solid baseline game.   
  
  Q. Did her injury timeout in the first set have any effect on you?   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: No, not at all. You know, she didn't take it very long. Just a couple of minutes. So no effect at all.   
  
  Q. Obviously this is your third three-hour match in a row.   
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I know (laughter).   
  
  Q. Did the tiredness from previous matches affect you?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I feel maybe tonight I was a little tired, like the footwork was not as good as it should be. Especially when you play against someone who has such a solid baseline game, you have to be very quick, have to be aggressive with your footwork. I feel I was a little bit slow today.   
  
  Q. You got to the semifinals, so you had a fairly good week. Do you feel your game is coming back slowly after the layoff? How do you feel going into the US Open?  
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yes, I feel, you know, before coming here I was missing my confidence. Playing here, three sets, very long matches, I finally feel my game.   
 You know, even that I lost today, I feel it was a good game, my game is improving during this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT