PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 14, 2006
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  How did you feel about your game today? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I feel I was playing pretty good today.  First time we were playing against each other.  I think she's a good player. 
 I think she did a lot of, you know, unforced errors today.  My serve was good.  It's unusual for me to finish that fast. 
 Q.  You had the long match earlier in this tournament. 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah.  Sometimes you really need to play some difficult three-set matches before you can get the rhythm and just find your game.  I think that's what's happened to me here. 
 Q.  What do you think about your next opponent, Ivanovic? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I've never played against her.  I watch her a lot last year.  I think she's very talented.  It's going to be tough match for me.  She has a great serve, you know, very powerful play. 
 Just, like I said, it's going to be our first meeting.  If she wins today, it's going to be very interesting for me. 
 Q.  And Chakvetadze, can you talk about her as well? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I know her little bit.  I play against her in the US Open a year ago.  She's from Russia.  Young, coming-up player.  We played doubles against each other in this tournament so we know each other a little bit. 
 It's always interesting to play against younger generation, to see what they bring, something new, just to try to play against them. 
 Q.  Can you remember the first time you played on the senior level at the French Open, and what is the memory of that? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  The first time, I think I was playing qualifier.  We were playing in a different site.  I can't remember, did I qualify or not? 
 Q.  Not in the quallies, but in the main draw. 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I was playing in the main draw, but I think I lost in the early round.  I was playing in the doubles, in a final, with Nadia Petrova.  I think we lost against Kim Clijsters, someone else.  I can't remember right now.  It was someone famous. 
 Q.  And in singles? 
 ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  In singles, I can't remember.  I probably lost in the early round.  That's why it didn't stay in my mind. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT