PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 25, 2005
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   What happened in the second seem like nobody could hold serve there.  I don't think 4-5 games without anybody holding serve?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I think I wasn't playing my best today.  Just in order to play after love-40 I had a very slow start and I am definitely not a morning person.  It was difficult for me to play at ten o'clock.  I have to say she was playing unbelievably well today.  I was always down during the match.  She didn't give me any easy points so I was fighting for every single ball.  I think I was not aggressive enough today. 

Q.   How early could you tell that you were going to  -- could you tell in the warm-ups that you weren't as quite as sharp as you normally would be?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA: To play at ten o'clock that means you have to wake up at 6 and when you go to -- for your warmup you don't feel  -- you are not fast enough because it's early morning and I was wasn't nervous about it, but during the match I feel like I didn't move that well and she just put a lot of pressure on me and she was actually very aggressive.  Didn't give me any mistakes so it was tough to play against her today. 

Q.   Do you feel like in that second set when she was getting really frustrated do you feel like you had an opportunity to swing it the other way, with her being, you know, so emotional with the calls?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA: Yeah, I think even I was always down with the score, I think I had some moment in the first and the second set when I could change, you know, I could change something in this game.  But unfortunately I missed some easy shots and she just didn't give me anymore chances. 

Q.   What are your thoughts going on into the Open now?

ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I don't think that much can change anything in my game.  I feel disappointed with this also, but at the same time I know how well I can play.  It wasn't my day today and she was playing unbelievably well.  I hope I have enough time.  It's more than two days before I play my first match in the US Open, so I will be okay.

Q.   Hopefully you don't get a morning draw.

ELENA DEMENTIEVA: I hope so.  (Laughs) Don't write about it. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT