WIMBLEDON
June 24, 2005
Elena Dementieva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  The first set was interesting with the serves, wasn't it?  Nobody could really seem to hold serve. 
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I think that was pretty tough condition to play, you know.  It was very windy on the court and I thought that, you know, it comes, the rain.  And that was kind of difficult. But I think my serve was pretty good today - much better than the previous match.  And, you know, just feel like finally I've got my confidence on my serve. 
 

Q.  You've been working with Richard Krajicek, is that true?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, I was working with him last week and here as well, and he helped me a lot with my serve.  I was very pleased that he was working with me because I think he had the best serve on the tour.  You know, it's just so simple -- it looks so simple when he does it. You know, he left already, unfortunately for me, but I'm always thinking what he told me to do on the court, and I hope to work with him again. 
 

Q.  Your serve looks better now, doesn't it?  Does it feel better?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  For me, yeah.  I feel more confident, you know.  Even if I'm doing -- if I do double-faults, you know, I feel like I'm doing the right thing and I'm trying, you know.  It's kind of difficult to change your serve, you know, just a week before the Grand Slam. But, you know, I really like my new serve. 
 

Q.  So Krajicek worked on the mental aspect of the serve as well as the motion?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  No, he said that I don't need to.  He said everything is okay, you know, just a couple thing that we are working on.  He think that, you know, one day can be my weapon.  All I need -- you know, it just takes some time, you know, and to believe in myself and to get my confidence.  Because the motion, it's pretty good. 
 

Q.  What did you feel was maybe the problem from last year playing on grass here to now, to where you are now?  How do you feel you've come on?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Yeah, after French Open final last year, I think I didn't have enough time to prepare myself for the grass season.  And, you know, this time, you know, I'm just happy that I'm able to play because just a couple days ago I didn't know if I could do it because of my arm injury.  You know, I'm just so happy that my shoulder is getting better.  And, you know, I'm just, you know, trying to play - maybe not my best tennis but, you know, every time it looks like it's getting better. 
 

Q.  Have you looked at who you may face in the next round?  Perhaps Myskina.
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  Myskina or Jankovic, yeah. 
 

Q.  Can you maybe tell us something about what you know of those two?
 
ELENA DEMENTIEVA:  I mean, with Myskina, we play lots of time.  You know, I think last time she beat me.  And it's gonna be -- it's always interesting for me to play against her because we know each other very well.  It's always a battle against us, and it's gonna be a fight, you know. But I've never been in the quarterfinals here, so that's what I'm looking for, and I'll try to play my best. 
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT