UNIVERSITY OF TULSA FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 3, 2018
Philip Montgomery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Connecticut - 19, Tulsa - 49   
HEAD COACH PHILIP MONTGOMERY: ... for them, and so to allow those guys to get in, this was a good feeling, and the other part of it was just being able to pull those guys off, you know, and we've been in some dadgum battles, and they have balled out hard for 60 minutes of every game that we've played, and to be able to pull them out and let them enjoy that, was pretty special, too.   
 Q.  Every week we talk to you, and you talk about how hard the guys were working and how you're close and so now to see that finally pay off, get that win, how happy are you for the team, for the guys, and how does it feel for you?  
HEAD COACH PHILIP MONTGOMERY: Well, I mean, it's been a frustrating year.  I've been frustrated.  Our team's been frustrated but we've stayed diligent about what we do and how we do it.  To see them on the sideline and in the locker room and the joy that they have; college football games, they are hard to win.  I don't care who you are playing, what week it is.  There's so many parity in college football, it's tough to get wins.   
So you've got to enjoy that part of it, but it was good to see our guys do what they did tonight, and now we've got to build off of this momentum and try to roll that into the next three weeks because you know, obviously we've got a tough task coming up.   
But we're going to enjoy this one for a little bit.  It's been a little while since we got to taste it.  So I want our guys to taste it, feel good about it.  Food will taste better and music will sound better, and you know, they need to feel some of that.  And then we've got to get refocused about what we've got to do next week.   
 Q.  Talk about playing in the rain.  You seem to play better in the rain.  UCONN was having troubles, and you guys took it up a notch.  
HEAD COACH PHILIP MONTGOMERY: Probably because we work in the rain.  Around here, the last three or four weeks, I think we've had at least one day that it has rained, and we work in it.   As long as it's not lightning, our guys have worked in it and they knew how to handle it.  The rain didn't bother them.   
I thought we did a really good job of taking care of the football and it's always hard to do that in adverse situations like that.  We even threw the ball well in the rain, and so it was good to see our guys do it and execute it, and understand, this is what we do and this is how we work.  This is nothing new to us.   
 Q.  What you're saying is you don't need an indoor facility?  
HEAD COACH PHILIP MONTGOMERY: I didn't say that.  (Laughter).   
 Q.  What did you think of Seth's confidence as the game went on?  Seems like he was super effective and not at all rattled?  
HEAD COACH PHILIP MONTGOMERY: Yeah, I thought for him, you know, we saw glimpses of it last week where -- and I mentioned it in my press conference last week, where offensively, it felt like us.  We were clicking on some things and tonight, I thought he continued that process.   
Some of the reads he made, some of the throws he made, you know, it was good to see him execute at a good level right there.  And then guys made plays down the field for him, too.   
You know, obviously he's trying to make a play there early and he's stretching the ball out, trying to get it in.  That's something we'll continue to grow and learn from, but overall, I thought his game took up another notch tonight and then we've got to continue to see that type of growth each and every week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT