UNIVERSITY OF TULSA FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 1, 2018
Philip Montgomery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Tulsa 38, Central Arkansas - 27
PHILIP MONTGOMERY: All right.  Every win's a good win.  We've got a lot to learn from this game.  I was very proud of our guys the way they continue to just keep grinding.
I mean, we made mistakes.  Some of them were silly mistakes.  Some of them first-game mistakes that we've got to do better at.  We'll be better game two than we were game one.  We've got a lot to work on come Tuesday.  Many that being said, every win's a good win.
You know, you don't have ugly wines and pretty wins and this and that.  Every win counts the same, so I'm very proud of the way we battled back.  I thought every phase really contributed to this win.  I mean, the defense with the big stop turnover down there in the end zone, I mean huge, huge plays right there.
On the kickoff, when we create the fumble right there and get it back, huge play right there.  Then really offensively the last drive.  I don't know how much time was left on the clock, but I think it was like six minutes or more on the clock.  To be able to run the whole thing out and offensive line.  Running backs, those guys stepping up and doing what they did right there just, that's a game-winning drive.
That's what we talk about all the time.  So had adversity, overcame some adversity.  Obviously pleased with the outcome.  Obviously, we've got things to get better at.
Q. Without having seen the tape, what did you think of skipper's game management, how he managed the game as it went on?
PHILIP MONTGOMERY: You know, we knew this coming in that UCA is a really, really good opponent.  This is a team that was 20 and 5 over the last two years.  Really, really good on defense.  Their defensive line, I mean, they had multiple guys last year with over ten sacks.  We knew they'd do a good job of rushing the passer.  So, you know, we had way too much pressure on him tonight.  We've got to do a better job of being able to sustain some of those blocks a little bit longer.
That being said, you know, he made some big throws when he needed to.  The big throw to Cole right there in the corner of the end zone, that's a huge play.  Made a nice throw to Hobbs there late.  Made a great throw to To on the one down the middle that we ended up turning over.  There were several opportunities in there that if the ball's up a little bit, you know, maybe a better outcome to it.
That being said, I thought overall, I thought Luke played well.  His first game out, you've got to remember we don't have preseason games.  So this is, he'll learn a lot from this one.  We'll go back in there, watch the tape, continue to grind and get better, and all of us got things we've got to work on.  Him included.
Q. Talk a little bit about Cole Neph, seemed to have a really nice game.
PHILIP MONTGOMERY: Cole is going to be a great addition to what we're doing.  Brings a lot of diversity to what he can do with him.  Obviously had a couple of good catches tonight.  Did a nice job on the block side of it, and has really worked hard on that aspect of it.  With Cole, we can move him around and do some things.
So love to see his progression as he's grown as a player, and we'll still continue to keep using him within what we do.
Q. You mentioned, you know, or referenced some penalties.  How frustrating is that?  That's obviously not something you can see coming in the first game, and they were all over the place.  It wasn't just offense or defense?
PHILIP MONTGOMERY: No, I mean, it was every phase of it.  A lot of it is just, I think it goes back to just guys being, you know, they're so juiced up and amped up and ready to get on the field.  And we've got to control our emotions a little bit.  You know, there's just we've got to be more disciplined about that stuff.  You know, Hobbs' penalty right there after the big play, you know, he's got to stay calm right there.  And it's hard when you're in the back of the end zone and all the fans are reaching over, and they're all, you know, just lost his mind, and we'll correct that.
The one right there at the very first of the game with Romo, I mean, we couldn't hear the whistle.  We were waiting on that part of it.  The 25-second clock and the way they're trying to speed up the game, it causes some issues, so your guys have got to to be really prepared for it.
We've talked about it, we've worked on it.  But when you get in the live thick of it, it's the little things you've got to do better on.  We just had too many really silly penalties, you know?  So we'll go back and look at it, we'll learn from it, and we'll be better from it.
Q. The defense just was that when you expected, 82, I think it was, yards rushing you held them to.  Just your thoughts on how they performed?
PHILIP MONTGOMERY: Yeah, really thought our defense played extremely well.  Especially about the latter part of the first quarter and then on through the second, and then the rest of the game.  Really, I thought they did a great job stopping the run.  That's something we've put a lot of emphasis on.  We did a better job getting off the field on third down.  But the whole -- that team is a good rushing team with a lot of different weapons back there.  To hold that team under a hundred yards, I feel really good about that from our defensive standpoint.
So we had a lot of guys in on tackles, lot of game tackling going on.  It wasn't just one guy in that area.  So if we can continue to do that, be great against the run, get them in those third-down and long situations, we can be really special on defense.  And I was proud of them tonight the way they bounced back.  I think the majority of those 82 yards came on about two runs that were big pop runs.
Q. (Inaudible) yards allowed since you've been here?
PHILIP MONTGOMERY: That may be.  I mean, I'm telling you, I thought they really played well, and we did a very poor job in the third quarter.  They had so many plays in the third quarter, I looked up and there were five minutes left in the third and we've run two plays.
They came out right after halftime, get a big stop right there and, you know, we have the turnover after two plays.  And then, you know, all the rest of that ensued.
So I thought it was good that our seniors really stepped up, kept us together, kept us focused on what we had to do.  Defense gets the big stop down there with the turnover in the end zone, and then offensively going down and getting a sustained drive with points.  We got the field goal, I believe, on that drive.  That's a big deal for us to be able to do.
Q. We could hear the celebration in here when you guys got in there, new locker room, lot of excitement.  I heard something about a glow party.  Just kind of what is the attitude and the mood down there?  Lot of new stuff, lot of exciting stuff happening?
PHILIP MONTGOMERY: Yeah, a lot of new stuff.  A lot of exciting stuff.  We've been blessed and our guys have worked extremely hard.  You know, for us, you learn over the years that you coach and the years that you play, every win is important.
That's a big win for us.  So guys need to be able to celebrate, and we know how to celebrate.  So we had a good time down there.  Guys are excited and they should be excited.  We need to enjoy this win tonight, be smart about what we do, and get back to work come tomorrow.
And then Tuesday we've got a big opponent in front of us that we know we've got to go on the road and play in.  So it will be back to business at that point.  But you need to enjoy this win, and let's put it away, and we're going to the next one.
Q. What is a glow party?
PHILIP MONTGOMERY: You know, I guess you just have to be there to see it.  I mean, there's some glowing, there's some dancing, there is some hollering, and it was good to see those guys with all the work they've put in, the smiles on their faces and the songs in their heart.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT