UNIVERSITY OF TULSA FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 25, 2017
Philip Montgomery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Temple - 43, Tulsa - 22   
PHILIP MONTGOMERY: Well, it's been a long year, and our team has faced a lot of adversity.  I'm proud of their resilience, the way they continued to battle.  They stayed strong amongst each other, stayed strong on the field.  We didn't come out on top, but there's a lot of life lessons that we learned this year.   
We've got a lot of work to do ahead of us.  These seniors, you've got to take your hat off to them and how they've kept our locker room together and the way they continued to keep battling.  They've set a good foundation for what this program is going to be built on.   
We had a lot of obstacles this year, but that being said, there's still a strong foundation of what we're doing and how we're doing it, and I'm very proud and thankful for those men in that locker room.   
Questions?   
 Q.  Is that kind of what you told the guys in the locker room after the game?  
PHILIP MONTGOMERY: Yeah.  I mean, what I say to them I wouldn't say to y'all.   
 Q.  But that general thought about --  
PHILIP MONTGOMERY: Yes, I'm proud of them and thankful for them.   
 Q.  What did you feel overall was the missing ingredient?  Was it lack of experience?  Was it just talent -- overall how would you emphasize --  
PHILIP MONTGOMERY: I don't know that you can categorize it into one thing, with all the injuries that we had, all the young guys that we played, all the different line ups that we put in the game.  You know, right now it's probably pretty tough to kind of look back and reflect on the entirety of the year.  But you know, we've faced a lot of adversity, and I don't have the -- I don't have the magic solution to it right now.  I mean, I need some time to kind of sit and recapture and go through all of it.  You know, we got better in some areas.  We've got to get better in a lot more areas, but we've got to continue to just keep growing, and the young guys have got to continue to keep maturing in this process.   
 Q.  Talk about adversity; when you're already down a quarterback, next guy up goes down, how much of a challenge was it in that moment to shift to a different style of quarterback who had never played?  
PHILIP MONTGOMERY: Yeah, I mean, you're throwing -- you're really throwing Will to the wolves right there.  It's a tough situation.  They're good on defense.  I knew or I felt like we could come in and effectively run the football.  Obviously when you look at the stats sheet and look what Brewer did tonight, we had 34 carries, we used him in a lot of different ways.  Obviously when Chad went down, pretty evident that we were going to really try to run the football now.  You know, 34 carries for 255 net, 257 overall, averaged 7.5 a carry, I mean, that's an incredible night by him and those guys up front, knowing where we're at.   
Tough situation for Will to have to try to come in and play, and he handled it the best he could handle it.  But any time you go down two quarterbacks like that, it's a tough stretch.   
 Q.  I'm not positive but I'm pretty sure this is the first time that you've been in recovery mode at this time of season as a coach.  What do you do tomorrow?  What do you do next week?  Is February the biggest part of regrouping?  Is the junior college route an answer?  Where do you get started?  
PHILIP MONTGOMERY: You know, that process is already started.  We actually have kids here this weekend, and so recruiting never stops.  We'll hit the trail, all of us, all nine coaches will be out on Monday, and we've got three weeks here to get out and recruit.  We've got a couple of weekends here that we can bring kids in on visits.  You know, the junior college route, you know, that's an answer for a lot of places; it's not always the answer here.  So you've got to find the right fit for guys, and that makes it a little more difficult, but that being said, we've got -- we're on some really good kids.  We've got a good class started, and right now it's all about recruiting and getting prepared for next year.   
 Q.  Obviously going through this first time trial by fire, do you feel like there are things you have learned this season that you've kind of made a note in the back of your mind like, okay, next time around not going to do this and so forth?  
PHILIP MONTGOMERY: Yeah, if I haven't, I'm in trouble.  Whether we win or lose or what happens, every day if you're not trying to learn something, if you're not trying to take steps forward, then you're always taking steps back.  You can't lose ground from that standpoint, and so we've learned a lot of things from this season.  We'll continue to learn each and every day that we're in it.  Obviously there's some things that we've got to do differently, got to approach differently, and you know, we've got a little bit of time right here to try to make a lot of corrections and get some things straight and get back on the right track.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT