UNIVERSITY OF TULSA FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 3, 2017
Philip Montgomery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Memphis - 41, Tulsa - 14   
COACH MONTGOMERY: Tough game.  I thought we played a pretty good first half.  Got to be more consistent.  Obviously came out the second half, didn't quite play as well.  Got to do more offensively in the second half.   
That's two weeks in a row that I thought we played pretty good in the first half offensively and then just really came out in the second half and didn't get anything ever going, and put our defense in a couple bad situations there.  I thought overall, you're playing a really explosive team.  Take nothing away from them.  They are a good football team.   
But we had opportunities in there to do some things that we didn't take advantage of, and we've got to step up and make plays.  I've got to do a better job coaching, and we've got to come out and do a better job in the second half.   
 Q.  I know teams, coaches, like to play -- complement each other, offense complements the defense; the defense complements the offense.  But they open the second half with a 17-play, 90-yard, six-and-a-half-minute drive, and then your offense goes three-and-out, three-and-out, three-and-out.  You go 22 minutes without a first down.  How damning was that set of circumstances?  
COACH MONTGOMERY: Well, obviously it is.  They had a huge drive there to start the second half and we don't come out and help ourselves.  That's probably the most frustrating thing is we've got things open we've got to take advantage of.   
But when you're sitting there in those situations, that's the difference in ballgames.  And like I said, I mean, I think in the first half, we had more time of possession I think than they did, and then, you know, you turn around in the second half and you don't come out and execute at a good level.  You've got to do that, especially against good football teams, and you've got to come out and shoot on all cylinders and we didn't do that.   
 Q.  A couple games left in the season, what are some goals you have for the team as you close this one out?  
COACH MONTGOMERY: Our goals don't change.  I mean, for us, we're trying to go 1-0 every week and so we've got a another opportunity here pretty quick.  You know, our opportunity is to step on the field and play as good as we can play, and play consistently for 60 minutes and keep fighting for 60 minutes and try to be 1-0 for that week.  That's what we're trying to do right now.   
 Q.  What do you want to see out of your passing game?  
COACH MONTGOMERY: Consistency.   
 Q.  More consistency obviously --  
COACH MONTGOMERY: Consistency.   
 Q.  Execution --  
COACH MONTGOMERY: All of that.  All of that falls into consistency:  We have to catch the ball; we have to throw the ball; we have to have our eyes in the right spot; we have to protect better.  We have got to do a good job of reading progressions but it all comes back to just being consistent about what we do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT