UNIVERSITY OF TULSA FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 21, 2015
Philip Montgomery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Navy - 44, Tulsa - 21   
COACH MONTGOMERY: You know, hats off to Navy.  They are a very talented football team, very difficult to prepare for in a three-day span right there.  I thought our defense especially early played extremely well.  It's just hard to keep them contained.   
They have got some talented kids that are running that thing.  You know, Reynolds is as good as advertised.  Swain is a plugger right there in the middle that you have got to account for and being able to get out there on the edges and trying to outflank you.  Again my hat is off to them.  They played a great game.   
Offensively, just never got in any real rhythm, just kind of spotted through there.  Tough because everybody talks about Navy's offense and they are extremely good.  You look at them defensively, and they are very talented.   
You know, just didn't have a ton of explosive plays in there obviously, and so tough sledding today.  We're focused on Tulane now.  Got to go down there and get us a big win.  It's kind of playoff season now.  That's kind of where we're at and our guys will be focused and ready and starting to prepare for next week.   
 Q.  Kind of go by what made Navy's offense just so effective; what is it out there that confused you guys today?  
COACH MONTGOMERY: Well, it's not really a confusion-type deal.  It's more of they make you play extremely assignment football.  You don't see that style of offense -- once a year, if you're playing them and if not, you're not ever going to see it.  You can go years without seeing it.   
You've got to go back and you've got to change everything up front and basically you've got to install a totally new defense in three days.  You know, they have been doing it a long time.  They are doing it with really talented people right now.  You know, they are hard to stop.   
 Q.  Is this kind of a throw-away-the-tape-type game and move on?  Did you tell them that in the locker room afterwards?  
COACH MONTGOMERY: It's not a throw-away-the-tape.  Obviously we are going to look at things and correct some stuff, especially offensively.  It's hard, for the defense, really, you can probably just throw it away because you're not going to see it.  We can coach up after it, coach some other things.   
I thought our guys battled all the way through it.  For us, what I talked to them about, we are back in those days in high school, you're in playoff mode.  You win, you get to keep playing.  No pressure to it.  Relax and let's have a good time and enjoy the process and let's go get us a big win.   
 Q.  If you can compare Navy's defense with some of the other defenses you've faced, and talk about some of the success they had against you today, if you could.  
COACH MONTGOMERY: You know, they are playing with a lot of confidence right now, and they have got some older guys running around, and schematically, we have seen what they have been throwing at us.  They are an odd-front team and they are changing it around and doing some different things.   
Again, I think more than anything, they are a team that's playing with a lot of confidence, that's been on a roll.  I mean, they are 8-1 and feeling it right now.  So more than anything else, I think if we get into a rhythm early, I think we can do some things.   
But you sit there and look at it, I think Dane was 33 of 38.  It's not like he threw the ball bad.  We just didn't have those explosive plays that we generally have.  We didn't run the ball as effectively as we should have.  We had a couple of big runs in there and they get called back, so you're continually driving and working.   
 Q.  You kind of led into it, but the run game had been effective the last couple games.  Talk about how you weren't able to get it going tonight.  
COACH MONTGOMERY: Well, you know, they were giving us a couple of different looks in there.  We got some movement here and there.  But as you get into it and we're having to work a little bit more of our passing game and trying to move the sticks that way; I think with the scheme that they have got and the guys that they are doing it with, you just don't give them enough credit for the talent that they have on that side of the football.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT