UNIVERSITY OF TULSA FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 23, 2015
Philip Montgomery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Memphis - 66  Tulsa - 42
   
COACH MONTGOMERY: You know, I thought our guys played extremely hard.  We got to find ways to win those types of football games.  I mean, got an opportunity right there in the third quarter where we got a couple big plays in there that kind of could have set it on fire.  And then we just let it get out of control there a little bit right after that. 
I mean, I thought our guys played extremely hard.  I think we had opportunities in there to really get back in the football game.  I love the way they compete.  Take nothing from Memphis; I mean, they are an outstanding football team.  Coach Fuente has done a good job and he's got a great staff over there.  They are a very talented football team.
But I thought our guys went toe-to-toe, and like I said, had our opportunities to pull back in it and have a chance to really put some pressure on them and that's what we were trying to do in the second half.  So with that being said, I'll take questions.
Q. The game that Keyarris had with 14 catches, 268 yards, three touchdowns; that about as good as you've seen him out on the football field?
COACH MONTGOMERY: Yeah, he was special tonight and we needed him to be special.  We talked -- I talked to him after last week's game, and just told him, hey, I've got to have more out of you.  It's been tough on him with the loss of Keevan.  Those two are so close.
But I thought tonight, boy, played inspiring football.
Q. Paxton Lynch has got a lot of publicity and he had another really good game.
COACH MONTGOMERY: He's a very talented quarterback.  Does a good job within their system and what they are doing.  I thought he operated everything pretty well tonight.  We had some chances to, I think -- some opportunities to pick some balls off.  I thought we were in good coverage a lot of those times and I thought as receivers, really made some exceptional catches.  I mean, there's some times where we are right on it and they just somehow came down with the football.
So like I said, they do a good job over there.  He's the trigger guy.  He makes them work.  He's a great operator.  I thought he handled the game and different situations really well.
Q. When you talk about needing to find ways to win games like this, is that something that will come with time in your system for the guys, or is it things that they are leaving out there right now?
COACH MONTGOMERY: You know, I think it's just any time you come in and you're taking over a program, you're changing the culture and you're changing the things that are going on.
Our guys are as embodiment (ph) of what we are doing as any team I've been around.  With that being said, you've got to battle adversity and you've got to get on the right side of it and you've got to continue to keep working the way they are working.  That's what we talked about in the locker room.
I want them to be upset about losing.  I mean, there ain't nothing good about it, and it's hard and it's tough.  It stinks.  I think that's the right word to say.  But, we've got to go back to work.  We've got to keep battling and we've got to keep pushing the limits on what we can do and how we can do it and finding ways to put us on the top side.
Q. You had four guys carry the ball 413 yards on the ground.  How much did you miss Zack out there tonight?
COACH MONTGOMERY: You know, Zack's a guy that -- this is a good game for Zack just because, you know, he's a guy that can run through tackles and does some of that.  You know, he's been pretty solid for us all year long.
So obviously not having him is tough.  Not having Brewer is tough.  I thought James played extremely well.  I thought Ramadi played well.  And Rowdy comes in there and heck, Rowdy had not taken many snaps and I thought he did a really good job of coming in and trying to help us right there.
Q. Chad came in the game tonight.  Carried the ball seven times for 16 yards.  How would you evaluate his performance tonight?
COACH MONTGOMERY: You know, I thought Chad did what we were asking him to do.  He's coming in and providing some different sparks and different opportunities.  Any little twist or any little thing that we feel like we can get an advantage with him or Dane in the game we are going to continue to keep doing that.
I thought Chad played well.  You know, I think he's going to continue to keep getting better and better and we are going to keep finding ways to try to use him.
Q. When you say that you want these losses to sting and hurt for the guys, when you went in there, did you see that?  And how long do you want that to happen and then for them to actually get over it and learn from it?
COACH MONTGOMERY: Yeah, they are hurt.  You've got guys down there, emotionally and physically drained.  Especially for those seniors, I want us to win more for them than for anybody.  I want them to feel that feeling.  I want them to experience things that happen when you do win football games.
And so they are hurt.  I want them to feel hurt.  I want them to feel hurt tonight and a little bit tomorrow.  And then it's time to put that away and then it's time to move on to the next one.  Because that's the great thing about it:  We have another one coming up that we have to get back up and get ready to play.  We get a chance to go out on the practice field and get better, and you know, continue to keep striving and coming together.
I mean, we have got a tight football team down there, a tight family that cares about each other and that wants to win.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT