UNIVERSITY OF TULSA FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 3, 2015
Philip Montgomery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Houston- 38
  Tulsa - 24
COACH MONTGOMERY: I'll give it to Houston.  They played a good football game.  We had our opportunities.  We didn't capitalize on those.  Came up with a couple of good fourth-down stops.  Like I said, had opportunities.  Just didn't capitalize.  Never got anything really going.  Didn't come out of the gates like we should have, and so that's my fault, and we'll get them back right.
Q. You say you didn't get anything going.  You mean on offense, just seemed like things weren't going with the same flow?
COACH MONTGOMERY: Yeah.  We just didn't have a lot of rhythm to it.  We didn't run the football effectively.  We ended up in some third-down situations that we should take advantage of, especially when we're third and short, that we ended up getting stopped.  And that's just -- that's a mentality.  You know, that's really all that is.  I mean we gotta dig down, dig guys out of there, go get a yard, go get two yards, whatever that is.  But again, you know, we had our chances still with all of that being said, and we just -- we never got -- we never took advantage of them.
Q. Talk about losing Keevan early in the second half on that play.  How is he doing, what's his prognosis?
COACH MONTGOMERY: You know, I mean it's a big loss obviously.  I mean that guy is a tremendous football player and even better kid.  You know, it affects us.  You know, when you have to -- when you lose such an important weapon to what you do, it's always going to be a factor, and so as far as his prognosis goes, you know, I've talked to the doctors.  We'll get the m r I.  We'll kind of see how it goes from there.  But I'm extremely concerned.
Q. Coach, with the offense sort of just not getting into the rhythm, though the defense seemed to give you a chance.  Talk about just how they kind of gave you that opportunity.
COACH MONTGOMERY: Yeah, you know, I thought our defense played extremely well at times.  They had some big stops in there that we needed to capitalize on.  We still gotta eliminate the explosive plays.  We got them on some third down and long situations that they were able to pick up.  But I thought overall, you know, defensively, they did enough to win the football game.  We just didn't take care of it on our side.
Q. Coach, y'all seemed to have a hard time really running it consistently at all, and at that point seemed like maybe that started impacting your passing game.  Is that how it works usually if you're having trouble running that --
COACH MONTGOMERY: Well, I mean really, they did a good job.  They were loading up the box.  We had some nice runs in there.  The thing that gets you is, again, when you get in those third and short situations, you gotta go pick up those first Downs.  I mean you gotta move the chains to do what you want to do.  You know, as far as it affecting our passing game, you know, I don't know that it did that.  I mean we gave up five sacks.  That affects your passing game more than anything.  And then you got penalties.  We got down in the red zone a couple of different times.  You get in a penalty situation, it backs you up, putts you behind the chains and when you're not running the football as effective as you have been, it makes it more difficult to pick up in those situations.
Q. Coach, with the offense, it just seemed like Houston's defensive backs really had some good man-to-man coverage.  Is that kind of throwing things off for Dane or --
COACH MONTGOMERY: You know, not really.  I thought we had a couple in there that might have could have gone our way.  I thought, you know, especially with Keevan being out makes it a little bit different in that sense.  Keyarris still got loose a couple of different times.  Either we're just a tad bit late with it or a little short or there was some contact involved, whatever it may have been.  But you know, I don't put that on our guys as far as our receivers.  I thought they got open.  We were there.  Dane hit a few of them, missed a few of them.  That's the way football goes, that's the way playing the quarterback position goes.  So just gotta regroup and go again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT