MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2014
John Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What about the par‑5s?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, right in at 4‑under par today, so that was a massive improvement on the first two days.

Q.   You've been practicing on those?
LEE WESTWOOD:   No, not really the par‑5s are no gimmes around here, but if you're going to shoot a low score then you've got to play them a couple under.   There's little birdie chances out there and I used all of them the first two days.   And today played solidly and had a lot of chances out there.   I was a bit unlucky at times on the greens.   I had a lot of good putts that didn't go in.

Q.   What about the first putt on 15?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, I don't know how that missed.   Almost was out.   I'll probably watch that again and again.   It's one of those things.   I won't tell you what I said.

Q.   Are you sure?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Well, I can't, for the lip readers watching.

Q.   Does that score give you a realistic chance, if 6‑under is the lead tonight?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Oh, very much so, yeah, yeah.   Anywhere within five, even six shots of the lead going into the final round of the Masters is given a good chance, especially with the way the golf course is playing out here.   You'd have to make‑‑ even a good shot and can drop shots out there.   Kind of on the knife edges of the greens.   It's getting faster and firmer.   I thought I hit a great shot into the last and basically had to grind to make four.
Where I dropped shots today and I missed the fairway on 17 by very little, left.   And I missed the fairway on 7 by two inches.   It's the difference between being able it to spin the ball and having to get cute with it. 
So holes like 9 where a five foot putt with two feet of break on it and you're just lagging it down.   I watched one of the best‑‑ I watched arguably the best putter in the world today five putt the four holes within five feet.   That's the kind of thing we're dealing with out there. 

Q.   Has it been getting in your head at all when you've seen that? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Even in my head.   (Laughter).

Q.   Did you expect to contend when you came here this week?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, you know, Augusta is one of those places where I feel like I can get around.   And I felt like I know how to get around here, even if I'm maybe not on my game.   But I've hit the ball well this week and that's why I'm in contention. 

Q.   Experience is going to be that much more important tomorrow‑‑
LEE WESTWOOD:   A few experienced players, Bubba is on it and Kuch is up there.   I think Thomas has been in contention before, and there were a few people that were.   Yeah, I mean it changes as the week goes on.   And Sunday afternoon gets even more fun. 








END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT