NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: FLYERS v LIGHTNING
May 8, 2004
Keith Primeau
Jeremy Roenick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Keith, what about the non-goal? 
 KEITH PRIMEAU:  I'm kind of  -- I haven't had a chance to see it.  If you're calling incidental contact, I guess it's no goal.  But what disturbed me is he told the ref that I had given an extra shot.  I'm going to the net, I'm trying to make a play, and I fall and we score on a rebound.  That's not giving the goalie a shot when we have a scoring chance. 
 Q.  Considering that that was called, are you concerned seeing what happened the other two series, that that's been a mandate that goalies are being protected in the series? 
 KEITH PRIMEAU:  I don't know if it changes from what we've seen.  They have been forewarned to be overprotective of the goaltenders, but we can't change the way we play, and that means getting to the net and creating chances there.  I guess we'll take our chances that we don't actually have any fault on the goalie. 
 Q.  Jeremy, how discouraging was it not to come out of that first period with a lead, considering how much you dominated the play? 
 JEREMY ROENICK:  Well, one thing that we try to focus on in the team is to stay level-headed, not to get too emotionally high or low.  We thought we had a really good first period.  We had some aggressive play and took some quality chances.  It was going pretty well.  I think they made some  -- they capitalized on a couple of our mistakes, and they are talented and we have to be better with the puck in certain situations. 
 But it's the first game.  We came down here with the idea of winning one, and we have to be prepared more Monday's game. 
 Q.  What can you do on the power play?  They did a really good job today blocking your shooting lanes. 
 JEREMY ROENICK:  Well, I think we have a pretty good game going ahead into the series.  We generate a couple in the second period.  The first period, I think, was more of us not being very smart with the puck and moving it in the right places.  Second period we had a couple of chances where we did find some cracks, so it's going to get better. 
 Q.  How were the ice conditions and were they a factor in you heading into the goalie? 
 KEITH PRIMEAU:  The ice conditions are not very good but that said they have to play on the same sheet that we do. 
 I tell you what it will be, an easier building to go play in with a lead, because a lot of pucks got stopped up, and we went to keep control and just stuck in the ice. 
 We're aware of it now so we're just going to have to be stronger on pucks in Game 2. 
 Q.  Did you catch a rut when you went into the goalie? 
 KEITH PRIMEAU:  I went to cut back on him, he didn't bite, so I wanted to come back across where there was more net.  At that point I was out of room, and trying not to go over the top of him.  I went down and tried to stay out of his way. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT