BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2013
Simon Khan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What do you think of your position in this tournament after two days? 
SIMON KHAN:   When I saw the weather today, obviously it's going to be tough so I thought anything around par is a good score so I'm quite happy really.   Disappointed I got to 5‑under, playing really nicely, and just had a bit of a bad break on 15 I suppose, maybe hit the wrong club off the tee.   Hit it in the ditch down the right and didn't make a bogey.   So that's unfortunate. 
But pleased overall, got to be happy with that.

Q.   Essentially everybody has to deal with some hardship this week, haven't they?
SIMON KHAN:   Yeah, it's too tough out there to not have maybe one or two bad holes.   But got to take advantage of some of the others, and par 5s maybe.   If you can start well and get a couple under‑‑ which is what I did.   I did exactly what I wanted to do at the beginning.   So overall, it's only two days gone and I won't be far away.

Q.   Do you have to just dig in and grind it out to an extent?
SIMON KHAN:   Yeah, I had a couple of really good up‑and‑downs at the beginning, and missed more greens than yesterday.   You know you're going to miss greens, you know your short game has got to be good and you've just got to keep going and hopefully good things will happen.

Q.   Does it surprise you given your two months off? 
SIMON KHAN:   A little bit, yeah.   Wasn't sure exactly how I would be playing, but it's amazing how quickly my game can turn around, and anyone's really, and playing around here particularly, my favourite place obviously.   It's great. 

Q.   Presumably that local knowledge helps, as well?
SIMON KHAN:   Yeah, I think so, when the wind is blowing particularly, you've got to, sometimes it does funny things on the fairways but you've got to really stick with‑‑ when it's this strong, stick with what it's doing above the trees, and actually didn't do that on 15.   Thought it was more downwind.   So yeah, you've just got to commit to where you know the wind is, although it doesn't feel like it all the time.

Q.   What do you fancy for the afternoon? 
SIMON KHAN:   When the wet comes, it gets even tougher, and the ball is not flying as far.   Like I said, anything level, 2‑ or 3‑under, is a great score. 

Q.   So come what may, your score is going to stand the test of time?
SIMON KHAN:   It should be.   It should be roundabout where you want to be going into the weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT