COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 25, 2013
Simon Khan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Was that one of these days where you say, where did that come from?  
    SIMON KHAN:   Yeah, I felt good, obviously first day I played very as well and yesterday I was going well and then just got a bit ahead of myself really.   I was leading after eight holes, and I did the classic, started thinking ahead.   Today I just made sure I stayed on every shot and I felt good coming out and putting has been better.   Yeah, I was pleased and not that surprised, no.   
   
 Q.   Where did it come from in the sense that a golf course that doesn't really yield very much‑‑ okay, Garcia shot 66 yet but I don't think we've become used to 64s on this golf course?  
    SIMON KHAN:   Yeah, particularly front nine, traditionally is the harder nine and obviously I really had it going on that nine and there's some opportunities on the back, wind just popped up a little bit.   Nice to have finished a little better but delighted with the front nine.  
   
 Q.   When you look at the events you've won, the PGA and some of the other big ones, it seems to just come on a week when everything comes together for you.   Do you feel like that now?   
    SIMON KHAN:   I do, yeah.   It's been a tough couple years since winning Wentworth, so it's amazing, the feelings start coming back pretty quickly in this game, which is good.   Hopefully I can carry it on tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   This is pretty special, isn't it?   
    SIMON KHAN:   Yeah, it was really good fun on the front nine, and I had a good up‑and‑down, actually, out of the sort of waste area on 3, which is a real tough one.   Managed to par that and that really kept me going.   And then, you know, to make all those birdies in a row on some difficult holes, as well, was great.   I had a chance on 9, a 10‑footer to go out in 29 and that's the moment I thought about it and didn't hit a good putt.   
    I'm pleased with the back nine.   I played quite nicely.   Left a couple of putts short but haven't been up there for a while, so hopefully I can do that little bit better tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   You say all those birdies in a row; six in the first seven, you must have been laughing to yourself at the time.   
    SIMON KHAN:   Yeah, the score was sort of nervously chuckling.   Yeah, I did well today in terms of got back, got myself around every time I birdied and just kept going.   Yesterday was a good lesson for me.   I just got ahead of myself after eight holes, being seven‑under for the tournament and felt sort of quite easy and as soon as you do that in this game, it can bite you.  
   
 Q.   You said it's been a while since you've been up there, explain what's been happening and why we haven't seen you at the top end for a while?  
    SIMON KHAN:   I've been working on all aspects really, particularly short game and putting.   I didn't hit it very well last week.   I looked at my swing yesterday after the round quickly on my camera and just noticed a couple of things, little habits I creep into, and that felt better today.   Hit more good iron shots today.   Just hard work all around really.   Training harder off the course; I'm 40 now, you've got to do that.  
   
 Q.   Knowing that you've won on the biggest of stages, as well as in Wales, as well; you know what you're capable of, yet we have not seen you there for a time?  
    SIMON KHAN:   It's been really frustrating, probably the most frustrating part of my career, but you know, the harder you push, the harder you try in this game in terms of when you are on the course, the more you can push it away, so just try to be a little bit softer on myself and hopefully the putts will continue to drop.   
    I was really pleased today, getting back into the next shot and that's all I intend to do tomorrow and just do my best; I always say to my daughter, do your best, that's all you can do.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT