COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 23, 2013
Simon Khan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on 5‑under?   
    SIMON KHAN:   Yes, it was a good day, obviously wind never got up, it normally does in the afternoon and that helped this afternoon.   It was very scorable and I think if the weather stays like this all week, the scoring will be good.   
    After last week, more than rusty really when I played Abu Dhabi and so I just need an event before to get going and it's felt a lot better this week.   The swing, drove it a lot better today than I did last week, put myself in a lot of good positions and that was the key.   Some iron shots weren't as good as they can be, but you know, not to make a bogey is satisfying, yeah.   
   
 Q.   My memory says that you've had some decent form around here in the past?  
    SIMON KHAN:   Yeah, I think last year I was going quite well in the final round but out of the three, I feel like this is the course that sort of suits me the most maybe and I enjoy the most, even when the wind gets up, I enjoy the shots around here and it's not so many dog‑legs and big hitters cutting corners here.   
    It's more straightaway holes and I like that about this course.   The rough is sort of manageable.   You can still, you know, it's just set up really well.   
   
 Q.   And clearly with this, it's a lovely foundation for the week, isn't it?   
    SIMON KHAN:   Yeah, yeah, absolutely.   I'm looking forward to it now, and yeah, I feel there's always that apprehension, a little bit of every part of your game I suppose at the start of the season but starting to hit the shots again.   
   
 Q.   Did you winter well?   
    SIMON KHAN:   I did, yeah, I tried to keep going and I worked hard on my putting really, that was the main focus, and that's really the last two years what has not been going that well, so although, you know, I know there's a good putter in there, sort of letting it come out now and hope I'm okay the rest of the week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT