PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 15, 2011
Simon Khan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Simon, give us your thoughts, obviously not quite the day you wanted?  
 SIMON KHAN: Not really, no. I'm not out of it by any means. Around here guys who come from behind can win the tournament here, it's that sort of course. I played good today actually. I probably hit it as good as the other days, if not slightly better, really. Drove it well, and gave myself a lot of good chances. And even though it was a bit windier, I suppose it was a little bit tougher but you can still hit it close.   
 There's a couple of harder holes that you've got to play well but I've played those holes well. So disappointed, I never really got -- I birdied 10, and got a bit of a bad break on 12, bad lie off the tee and just went to the right and ball was in a plugged Mark and did well to make five.   
 13, 14, 15, all good chances and then sort of my one bad shot of the day really, didn't get up-and-down on 16. Good 2-putt on 17 for birdie and right in between wedge and 9-iron on the last. That pin, it's cross-wind and it's hard, you turn a wedge into it too much and takes a lot of distance on it too much, a horrible yardage. So left myself a long 2-putt and a bad second putt to be honest. I didn't feel that I was letting the putter go today and left some short. So got to address that tomorrow.  
  
  Q. You say it's a course where you can quite easily come from behind; so you're in that position now, but you're also in touch with the lead, as well.   
 SIMON KHAN: Yeah, I'm not out of it. So there's a lot of golf to be played tomorrow and generally been playing the front nine well all week. So you know, if I can get -- hopefully get off to a good start, you know, it's quite tough. Towards the end, you start -- the sun comes down and you start to see a few things on the greens, and I think that's the nature of the course.   
 Plus, the wind can gradually get stronger obviously as the day goes on. I remember a couple of years ago here, I played got last day for I think 1- or 2-under and everyone shot 64s and 63s which is unbelievable, but it's just like that. Whatever it gives you, it gives you, and I've got to do what I've got to do and put better really.  
  
  Q. Do you look at the leaderboard straight off tomorrow once you get going?  
 SIMON KHAN: Probably after seven or eight holes, I'll start and see how everyone is getting on. I know there's going to be birdies made out there and just got to be a bit more positive with the putter really.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT