BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 24, 2011
Simon Khan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Solid 3-under par round today. How was your game?  
 SIMON KHAN: Yeah, it was good. I played well tee to green. Bit of an iffy start but hit the ball well and hit lots of greens. It got a little bit tricky with a little bit of wind getting up, but still, the greens are soft and they're still running well. Missed a few chances, but made a couple, as well, so overall I'm happy.  
  
  Q. How happy are you with your game in general after missing the cut at the PGA Championship which was fairly disappointing; you played reasonably well in Wales?  
 SIMON KHAN: Yeah, it's coming around. I've had slow starts before. It's like I'm used to it now. Something clicked a little bit on the first day in the swing, and I just started to feel more rhythm coming back a little bit. The thing is with golf, sometimes it seems a long way away, but it's just round the corner. You've just got to be a bit patient.  
  
  Q. Does the course suit you for the next two rounds?  
 SIMON KHAN: I've enjoyed playing here. I've only missed one year in the last ten, I think, so I love coming here. BMW has always run a fantastic event. The course has improved over the years. There have been small adjustments, and I think a few holes are a bit tougher now. Obviously there are birdies out there, as well. It'll be interesting.   
  
  Q. Nice to be in contention again, isn't it? Did something click in the last couple days for you?  
 SIMON KHAN: Yeah, I had my coach Matt Belsham here with me this week. I was just struggling in the pro-am, didn't feel right, and he spotted something halfway around the pro-am actually. I didn't need to hit any balls after the pro-am, and just started to hit shots that I wanted to hit again. My iron play started coming back and hit a lot of greens yesterday, and today was pretty similar, hit some good iron shots.   
 It's not the longest course this one. You've got to be in position off the tee and then if you can hit some good iron shots you can birdie the par-3s and get some chances.   
  
  Q. It's nice to be right up there, I suppose, near the top of the leaderboard again and contending?  
 SIMON KHAN: Yeah, absolutely. It's been a while to be honest, probably since the PGA in America last year. That was the last time I've been up there. You know, a little bit of closure, I suppose, from my year of being PGA champion. That's gone now, so I'll concentrate on getting on with it now.  
  
  Q. Time for another BMW victory, isn't it?  
 SIMON KHAN: Lovely, yeah. It's a fantastic tournament. The crowds are really brilliant out there, I mean, unbelievable crowds here. Feels like six deep on the first tee, and they're all very appreciative of everyone. It's a great tournament, and hopefully I'll have a good weekend.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT