BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2016
Simon Khan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What do you make of 3-under at this venue this time around?
SIMON KHAN: I'd have taken it before I went out.  A little bit disappointed, 5-under with three to go, and just switched off on a wedge shot on 16.  Crazy shot, obviously missed the green right in the bunker, no shot there.
Yeah, so 17, hit a bad tee shot.  I didn't really feel that comfortable all day as I had been in practise.  I sort of didn't really have the pattern to my shots tee-to-green, but I putted a little bit better and this place inspires me and I feel good.
So playing it, sometimes I saw the shots but didn't quite hit them but my short game was pretty good.  And it caught up with me a little bit; if I can hit it a little bit better tomorrow and still putt as well, I look forward to it.
Q. Please elaborate on the memories of playing here so well, and that wonderful victory, and what it does coming back year after year?
SIMON KHAN: It's almost like each hole, I can see the shots I've hit in the past, essentially the golf course hasn't changed tee-to-green.  Obviously around the greens, on the greens, is a huge difference from when we played here in the early days.
So the shots around the course tee-to-green are similar, and I just find -- I don't know, something about the golf ball against the trees, I'm not sure what it is, the sound out there, it's great.  Obviously a nice day and scoring is on.
It would be nice to have a couple better but hopefully I'll get it tomorrow.
Q. And your health is better at the moment, as well?
SIMON KHAN: Yeah, it's been a long road.  I think I underestimated six months of complete no golf last year at 43.  I came back and other injuries came probably on the back of what I had.  So it's been really -- there's been times it's been really, really tough, but everyone's got their difficulties.  If you can stay injury-free in your 40s, then you're very fortunate.  Hopefully that's the end of it.  I've just got to keep the work up now to maintain it.
Q. Looks like there's been a few false starts, you start a tournament, have to withdraw, and now you're not, you're on a run.
SIMON KHAN: Yeah, on a run now, and playing three, two in China, Spanish Open before, was important to show that I can physically do it, and I knew it was going to take awhile to get back, because it's one thing, practising at home and feeling okay to coming out here and week-in, week-out and the travel, as well.
It's been really much harder than I thought, and yeah, looking forward to the rest of the year now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT