BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2010
Simon Khan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What was it like for you under all that heat and pressure?
 SIMON KHAN: It's been a long time since I've been back into contention, let alone a tournament like this. This event seems to bring the best out of me and I drew on some good experiences from the past, I suppose. 
 Although the course is different, my caddie helped me with the lies. I've been struggling with the putting all week but I managed to hole a few today. It just means that whatever happens from now, whatever happens the rest of the afternoon, I'm delighted with that round.

 Q. Great for your season, but potentially a victory, but six birdies, that must have been very sweet out there. 
 SIMON KHAN: Yeah, it's hard to hit the ball close, all week, to land the ball in the right spot with the right shape of shot. But when my game is good, that's my strength, really, short irons and managing to shape the ball into the pins and I managed to hit some close today, and all week I felt good with that. Like I said, putter sort of treed up a few times. 
 Someone mentioned my stats last night, and I don't really look at those sort of things, but I was hitting a lot of greens. I just said to my wife last night, you know, the putting is already there. 

 Q. 5-under through 14 and in the lead on your own, what are you thinking and feeling at that stage? 
 SIMON KHAN: I said to myself when I looked at the leaderboard on 16, I decided to look on 15 and promptly dropped a shot on 16. But I just felt, you know, really good all day about my game. You know, I managed to sort of down the stretch still hit my shots and just whatever happens from the rest of afternoon on, I'm delighted out there. 

 Q. Describe the putt on 18 from your point of view, did you know the situation? 
 SIMON KHAN: Yeah, I had a good look and knew I needed that one. It's so hard to forget about the memories of the old putts on the old greens sometimes around here, but after feeding it straight up towards the hole, it managed to get enough of the lip to go in.

 Q. You've looked at the leaderboard; what do you think? 
 SIMON KHAN: A long way to go. They are different holes now, 17 and 18. In the past, I wouldn't have been confident at all, but you never know. I've just got to do what I've got to do and I'm delighted with that today. 

 Q. How much fun was that? 
 SIMON KHAN: Fantastic, yeah. Just starting to feel a bit tense halfway around, on 9 and 10, I realized what I was doing today, because although the pins, maybe the first three holes were a bit easy, they are still hard to get at and I knew birdies were good today. 
 When I birdied 10, I just reminded myself, you know, this is what you always dreamed of doing, and this place inspires me. I've been coming here since 1984, a long time ago. It's fantastic to do it here, and I enjoyed it, the weather and the crowds, it really got me going, yeah. 

 Q. How do you like your chances now? You're tied right now, you know how the course is playing; what's your chances? 
 SIMON KHAN: It could well be a playoff I would think. I don't know. I'm just going to keep myself sort of, you know, don't switch off and the next hour or so, and then make sure I'm ready if I'm needed.
 To hole that putt on the last -- I played really well today. I left that putt short on 17 which is disappointing, I needed that, really. So, yeah, just really pleased with my round.

 Q. Now will you head straight to the range? 
 SIMON KHAN: Just going to go and get a drink and something to eat quickly and see what's going on and keep near the range I suppose. 

 Q. What would this mean to you, you've had your injury problems, cracking round of golf today; what does this mean to you?
 SIMON KHAN: It just means everything, today, this week. This tournament is the reason I started playing golf, and just to be here was unbelievable. As long as I play my game, if I win, then great. But I've always felt confident around the course. I love the way I just see the shots so clearly. I love playing here. With the new setup, as well, it makes it a new premium on sort of your accuracy and that's sort of my strength when it's on. Just means everything really. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT