BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 13, 2008
Simon Khan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. I know things slipped away but there was the consolation that you will be head to go Birkdale and teeing it up in The Open Championship?  
 SIMON KHAN: Yeah, it feels good. That feels great. At the moment, this moment in time, I'm feeling pretty disappointed, I played lovelily today, a lot of good iron shots and gave myself plenty of chances and generally played okay. I suppose a couple of bad breaks really. Hit a terrible shot on 17 in the bunker, and just no stance and the bunker had been filled with new sand. On 12, I found a divot on the bottom of the slope and couldn't play a lob shot.   
 Yeah, good luck to G-Mac. He dug in there and had a good little spell there, three birdies in a row which sealed it for him.   
  
  Q. What are your thoughts after a final round when you're in contention almost all the way around?  
 SIMON KHAN: Yeah, I mean, I started off a little bit shaky but then got into it and I played really well around the turn. Felt really confident and you know, after birdieing 11, really felt in control and then just a couple loose tee shots, one loose one on 12 and missed it right there and didn't really have much chance at the green. And to make a 6 there was disappointing because the second chip wasn't that hard, and gave G-Mac a bit of impetus and he birdied the next and I didn't.   
 Then the same on 15, just a little right off the tee and had to come out sideways. 17 was disappointing because I just felt that, you know, I hit a good tee shot. It's a tough tee shot today and found a horrible lie in the bunker, so just one of those things.   
 But you know, I haven't been up there for a while. I've got to takes positives out of it. In my mind all year, to take this form into Birkdale and this experience this week, this should hold me in good steed for next week.  
  
  Q. Must be tough after the 17th to put yourself back together to get a par on 18. Were you aware of what you needed to do?   
 SIMON KHAN: I felt that if I dropped another one, it would push me back into probably a big group. I didn't look at the leaderboard that closely but I just felt it was crucial to get up-and-down and I played a good shot there.   
 So I was going for the pin, trying to make a birdie. Even on 17 when G-Mac hit it in the bunker right, I'm thinking, come on, make a two here and maybe put a little pressure on him on the last, and it wasn't to be. I sort of tried my best all the way but just didn't happen today in the end.  
  
  Q. But it is some consolation that you'll be at Birkdale?  
 SIMON KHAN: Absolutely. It's been hugely on my mind. My wife's mum passed away earlier in the year, and she's from Liverpool. So to get back there, I know how proud she would have been. She loved being here as well last year watching us. Just the fact that I've got a lot of family up there and friends, you know, I love the course.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT