THE DEUTSCHE BANK PLAYERS' CHAMPIONSHIP OF EUROPE
July 26, 2007
Simon Khan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Four under after three holes - what were you thinking of at that point?   
 SIMON KHAN:  It reminded me of what I did in Wales a few years ago. Same sort of start. But the bogey at the fourth ended that. But you have to try and put it out of your head. Like a bad start you have to try and block it. Just stay positive. I got myself back together after the bogey, didn't birdie the sixth but birdied the eighth and it was a good front nine.   
  
  Q.  And three birdies coming back as well?   
 SIMON KHAN:  I felt really good going out. I worked really hard on my putting last week. I was really disappointed not to play in the Open. I played in the last two and felt I was better off doing some practice. Didn't watch a lot of it. Did a lot of putting practice. Went back to an old putter, changed my grip a little bit to how I used to putt as I did as a kid, with my finger down the shaft. I noticed Harrington does that although with the other hand. It felt really good last week and the first three holes today I holed three 20 footers. Bang, bang, bang and it makes such a difference.   
  
  Q.  How do you mean about the grip?   
 SIMON KHAN:  Right forefinger down the shaft. It is amazing as a golfer how you forget what you do. I was trying to remember on the putting green. It is amazing as a golfer how many grips you go through. You try different things. I got back to how I gripped it as a kid. Not many players do it. Mark McNulty does, Broadhurst and Harrington the other way round. You wonder why others don't use it and go with what everyone else does but I have always felt comfortable with that and don't know why I stopped.   
  
  Q.  Is it the one your daughter used?   
 SIMON KHAN:  No. She has that one back now. This is one I used last year, putted well with at the PGA last year. My clubs were taken on by one of the caddies from Loch Lomond so I didn't have my usual putter with me and thought I would try this one out and it felt really good.   
  
  Q.  How did you tear yourself away from the open?   
 SIMON KHAN:  It was great viewing. I watched the back nine on Sunday and the play-off and it was fantastic. I played the last two, St Andrews and Hoylake and it was the ultimate for me and I want to get back there.   
  
  Q.  How many putters do you have in your attic?   
 SIMON KHAN:  Not that many. I always used to stick with one putter and thought it was the player and not the putter. But a change is good and gives you a different feel and focus and when you roll a few in. I just enjoyed putting today and last week and it felt good again. I have not been looking forward to going out on the greens so that is a change of attitude as well.   
  
  Q.  You were in contention in Paris so your long game must be good?   
 SIMON KHAN:  It has been steady. Wouldn't say I hit it brilliantly today. But when I missed some shots I left it in the right place. I have been managing it well. I would like to hit it better the rest of the week. Paris was the weke I played great and felt I could have won if I had holed a few the last day. If I can get that going again and keep the putter going we will see what happens.   
  
  Q.  Did the greens get bumpier in the afternoon?   
 SIMON KHAN:  I thought they held up really well. If you got it rolling well, probably the ones from 20 foot were easier than from six foot as you got the ball rolling. But I thought the course had recovered very well from Tuesday.   
  
  Q.  The eagle?   
 SIMON KHAN:  Driver, three wood, 30 foot short and in. 255 yards to the pin for the three wood.   
  
  Q.  No tap ins?   
 SIMON KHAN:  I have been working on this drill for 20 footers and 40 footers and it has paid off. I haven't been getting the ball up to the hole. Getting that distance past the hole.   
  
  Q.  Did you miss any short ones?   
 SIMON KHAN:  No.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT