SMURFIT KAPPA EUROPEAN OPEN
July 6, 2007
Simon Khan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   SIMON KHAN:  I felt really good early on even though the conditions were probably a little tougher than yesterday. Played great at the beginning. Missed a good chance on two and birdied three and four. Felt really comfortable. I birdied ten but after that it felt a little bit of a struggle. I didn't hit it quite as well as I would have liked coming in, but I didn't make any mistakes, and that was important. I am right in there for the weekend and that is great.   
  
  Q. How difficult is club selection when the weather is changing so much and with such regularity?   
 SIMON KHAN: It's hard when the rain comes and the wind gets up a bit. You have to factor it all in as much as you can, but a lot of it is feel as well. Your caddie can think the hole is playing a certain distance but if you don't feel right, especially with such wet fairways into the wind, that's the hard thing. If you are forcing it into the wind off a wet fairway, the divot is going to be big. Sometimes you have to pick it off the top with a lot of club. 11 is a great example of that up that hill. I only had 118 yards to the pin but really it was an eight iron, a hands and arms sort of shot. You have to play shots like that. The ball just isn't flying far. They have done well with the course and the greens are still very good.   
  
  Q. You said in the BMW PGA at Wentworth that you felt like your form was peaking at the right time in the season. You were third last week in France so I guess you are still happy with things?    
 SIMON KHAN:  BMW was a week when I felt like I could win. I was hitting the ball better than I am now but it showed that when your short game is not up to it, it is hard to compete. Sunday in France was frustrating because I felt I played well enough to win the tournament but my putter went a bit cold. I am working on that and hopefully if I can put it all together this weekend it might happen here.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT