BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2006
Simon Khan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SIMON KHAN:  It's been great.  Delightful really.  Today I still hoped to challenge for it, tried to concentrate and make as many birdies and shoot a low score but it didn't quite happen.  And 16, first time I look at the leaderboard I felt a little bit deflated.  I 3 putted off the front, that was disappointing.  Not very good tee shots last two holes but I've been hitting well all week and only sort of bad shots, I've hit really off the tee but still come out with two 4s is great, delight to finish like that.
Q.  You said you felt deflated but looking at the grand scheme of things, second place at the BMW, a great week in the end?
SIMON KHAN:  Yeah, I'll look back, it's a great week and 68 on the final day, you can't really complain about that.  But, you know, that said, I was trying to shoot as low as I could and you know, rather than look backwards, try to look forwards all the time and David, he's a great mate, delighted for him.
Q.  It has not been an easy year for you, where did this performance come from, did it surprise you?
SIMON KHAN:  Not really.  I've been working really hard with my coach, Matt Belsham, he's been helping me, this week a couple things were said that really helped a lot and just a couple things he said to me this week really worked, my chipping and my driver, those are two things    and a little bit my putting.  Those are the things I've been letting down a little bit.  I've been making enough birdies this year, I just haven't been my normal self off the tee, and to the green.  My normal game is not good length, but hitting fairways and hitting good iron shots and I sort of got back to that this week which I'm really pleased with.
Q.  Heading to Wales next week?
SIMON KHAN:  Yeah, that's a different course, it's a great week and a great tournament there.  Really I'm looking forward it now even more.
Q.  If Miguel doesn't bogey the last, 300,000 pounds, that would not be too bad for the bank balance?
SIMON KHAN:  It will help.  I've been languishing on the Order of Merit, I've been walking past notice boards and not looking at the Order of Merit, maybe now I'll finally look at it now.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT