BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2006
Simon Khan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








STEVEN FRANKLIN:  Simon, many congratulations, another fine round in some pretty atrocious weather.
SIMON KHAN:  Yes, it was getting really wet out there, yeah.  The greens, especially when you're hitting pitch shots in, you can't help but spin the ball, it's hard to get close to the hole when the pins are on the side of the greens.  No, I'm happy with that.  I've had a tough year.  So to come out today and keep myself in it, I'm quite happy.  It would be nice to hole a few more putts on the front nine.  I had some pretty good chances earlier on, and then a couple reasonable on the back nine that just shaved the hole, stopped on the edge.  All in all, I kept it pretty solid and kept it steady and that was nice.
STEVEN FRANKLIN:  As you say, it has been a bit of a tough year for you this year, you haven't been in contention for a while, so how do you feel about tomorrow?
SIMON KHAN:  Although it's been tough this year, the old feelings and the old memories, I can draw on them.  The three or four times I've been up there I've sort of felt pretty good.  I've enjoyed it.  I just want to go and enjoy tomorrow again and draw on those memories.  You know, just concentrate on my own game like I always try and do and just try and shoot a good round.
STEVEN FRANKLIN:  So you may be happy being a couple back rather than right at the top?
SIMON KHAN:  Yeah, I'd rather be ahead really.  It's a bit of a myth, really.  The more ahead the better really.  Yeah, it depends on how David does tomorrow.  For a lot of the guys    I saw Miguel had a great round today, there's some good names around.  It's still a challenge but they are a few back, someone could go and shoot a low one and then David's got to play well.  He's a good mate of mine, so I wish him well.
STEVEN FRANKLIN:  You opened with a nice birdie at the first.
SIMON KHAN:  Yeah, just driver, 5 iron, wind just gusted a bit, just come up just short and chipped in from about 30 foot.
STEVEN FRANKLIN:  Nice birdie to get your round almost.
SIMON KHAN:  Yeah, feel like picked up almost a shot and a half on the field there.  It's a tough hole.
STEVEN FRANKLIN:  Parred all the way to the ninth where you dropped a shot.
SIMON KHAN:  9, I was trying to hit sort of a cut 5 iron in, driver, 5 iron and just released it and turned it over way left.  So I was a little bit stymied behind the tree.  So I chipped to the side of the hole and made quite good shot about 10 to 12 foot and missed it.
STEVEN FRANKLIN:  Birdie at 12.
SIMON KHAN:  Yeah, hit two of my best shots really.  Hit driver as good as I could and then the rain just started coming then and had 3 wood into the rain.  I got it on the front part of the green and 2 putted.

14, a bit in between clubs.  Just tried to hit a smooth six and just didn't hit it, so 6 iron and it stayed on the bottom level.  But it's quite a nice putt, I was in line with the hole and I could see the line pretty clearly.  It was just a case of getting it up that slope.  Francois just holed before me the same putt and I followed him and so it was nice, a nice long putt, about 30 , 35 footer.
Q.  How much do you think of the money in a tournament like this, because it is appreciably more than normal, and for someone like your yourself to maintain the same position tomorrow would mean an awful lot I would guess.
SIMON KHAN:  I can honestly say I never really think about it.  I never really think about it, because it's not our money.  If it was our money to start with, then, you know, maybe you'd worry about it a little bit.  That's the way I think of it though.  It's not my money to begin with.  Over the course of the year, you could say, oh, that shot cost me so much, but there's other times when you hole outrageous shots, as well.

I don't think about stuff like that.  You know, like you say, this is a premiere event like the Open and I try to build my game and I've been trying to work on my game and make some changes and it's nice it's come together this week.  All year I've been thinking about this tournament and I'm just enjoying being up there.  I'm going to enjoy just contending.  That's what I want to do and not worry about the other stuff really and just enjoy being up there.
Q.  Do you want to become a professional golfer because you saw Seve Ballesteros win the British Open?
SIMON KHAN:  Yeah, Seve was my idol and when I watched the Open and also coming here to watch him a lot.  I remember watching him in the World Match Play when he played Langer    I've got a good memory    in the final.  Just the presence of him was unbelievable.  He was the man.  You know, I still think of him like that, how he was then, and he was the best player in the world, no doubt about it.  So coming here and watching the World Match Plays and PGAs, it meant so much to me to be here and performing this week is great, it's just a dream to be here and doing well.
STEVEN FRANKLIN:  Congratulations.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT