BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2006
Simon Khan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Tell us how good that was.
SIMON KHAN:  Yeah, 68 today was very good.  It really got windy on the front nine particularly.  It was gusting up to about 30 miles an hour, something like that.  It was hard to pick clubs because sometimes you'd just get a gust and other times it would just drop.  I went over a couple of green, short of 1, and went over the 6th green and holed a pitch shot, which is the sort of thing that hasn't been happening this year.  That gets the round started, really and gives you some momentum, because on a day like day, your short game has to be good, you're going to miss some greens. From then on really I played really nicely, from the 8th hole onwards, didn't really miss many shots.  And coming and coming in, disappointed to bogey 16.  Had a short eagle putt on 17, about an 8 footer and lipped out.  And then a decent chance at the last, but still nice to finish 4 4.
Q.  You have to be satisfied with that kind of end, don't you?
SIMON KHAN:  Yeah, they are both downwind and obviously the back nine, you can get some birdies.  You come in with the wind a bit more, but yeah, I'm satisfied with that.  It's just been a tough season so far, but you know, I started to feel the confidence in my game coming back, and starting to see shots rather than    you know, and that's always good for me if I'm seeing the shots and certain types of draws and fades.  And I'm feeling confident and my game is coming.
Q.  You did say things like the pitch going in, it will swing the momentum.  We've noticed glimpses of form in recent weeks.
SIMON KHAN:  Yeah, last week is a good case.  I had eight birdies in the first two rounds and missed the cut.  I'm obviously making enough birdies, but obviously whenever I make a birdie, I follow it with a bogey or worse, so it's hard to get momentum going there.  So that's where your short game needs to be good, so I've been working hard at that and working hard with my coach on everything really.  I've been trying to sort of think, okay, don't panic, just keep going, and if I can get my game good for the BMW, which fortunately, it doesn't always work like that, but it feels good this week.  So I'm just looking forward to the weekend now.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT