NISSAN IRISH OPEN
May 19, 2005
Simon Khan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SIMON KHAN:  It was a bad time on 17.  I wasn't actually aware that Andy was following us.  I was actually in the bunker on 16 last time I saw him.  So I got on 17 and actually we were debating over the club, Padraig hit it left and didn't really get an idea of what the hole was playing and we pulled an 8  iron.  The wind seemed to drop and I had come back to the bag and pulled out a 7 iron and walked up to the ball and did my routine and hit it.  Obviously decision making process took a little bit longer because I changed my mind in terms of what club to hit.  And it was a bad time.

So, it just feels to me that if you change your mind on a par 3 when you're on the club    the Tournament Committee's policy is they don't have to make themselves visibly aware to you.  They can be quite discreet in their positioning.  I didn't realize Andy was there.

So, you know, I was sort of five seconds over, I think, maybe ten seconds.  So, I accepted it.  And I just heard about the fine now, which I wasn't actually aware of.  I mean, there is a letter in the post explaining my position over a couple of weeks.  To me it seems a little extortion; the punishment maybe in my mind doesn't fit the crime in terms of    I mean, I'm all for, you know, stamping out slow play.  It's something obviously we can go without, but I don't feel that I'm one of the slowest players out here, definitely.

But I've got one routine when I play golf, and if I'm    I've obviously got to work on, because there's guys who take quite a long time to hit certain shots, but, you know, when they get on the clock, they are very good and that is professional in that way.

You know, I've had issues with this before last year and at Wentworth and Wales at times there.  It always seems to me, I think if you look back at a bad time for me, it's always on a par 3.  And when you're on the clock, if you change your mind on a par 3, a gust of wind, and on a tough golf course like this and it's very windy, once you change your mind then, that's it, you've got a bad time really.  You literally just walk up, if you're a Woosie or something like that, you just walk up and just go bang then you maybe get away with it.

So, that's it.  We've had a constructive chat in there and some of it I've got to work on and I accept it.  I was over the time and although it was marginal and very close.
Q.  How unsettling is all this, because obviously the cumulative nature of the fines means that the next time
SIMON KHAN:  Yeah, I just heard about that.  Yeah, it's getting expensive.  It's something that's got to be addressed by me.  Like I said, I don't feel I'm one of the slow players out here, I really don't.  Maybe slower, but I'm definitely not slow.  You know, there's this thing about, you know, when you're on the clock, obviously they can't time guys who are not out of position, should I say, because that would be victimizing people.  But once that group is out of position, whatever caused that to happen, then you've got to be on the ball and you've got to be    you've got to have that second routine it seems to me.
Q.  Did you know that last week
SIMON KHAN:  Yeah, I wasn't aware of that, actually.
Q.  How does that hurt, 12,000?
SIMON KHAN:  That's okay.  I think I'll manage it.  It's all right.  It's okay.  I'm disappointed with that but I'm delighted with how I'm playing.  I'm playing really well.  I'm not going to let that detract at all from out I played today.  I was in happy form in Wales; that was on the seventh hole in Wales and I went on to win the tournament.  So, you know, work on it and get on with the tournament.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT