BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2013
Simon Khan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   10‑under par is an excellent total, how do you rate its chances?   
SIMON KHAN:   Might be a bit short today.   I think 18, it's definitely a birdie chance.   17 is quite a tricky pin.   16 is a really tough pin.   I think overall, I didn't think it was enough in 2010 but it was in the end, so we'll wait and see.  
   
 Q.   Can I ask you about that 2010, you came from seven behind with a final round 66; how much was it going through your mind as the round was progressing?   
SIMON KHAN:   Yeah, I tried to draw, I definitely drew on the feeling I had that day.   Did a good job of not letting birdies affect me, but they can affect you, as well, the other way.   
My goal is to keep going, and I looked at the leaderboard a bit more today than I did in 2010.   I knew where I was, and I felt I needed that putt on 17 really.   
   
 Q.   You haven't played for eight weeks since Malaysia; your wife has been poorly.   Tell us whether she's okay now.   
SIMON KHAN:   She's getting better, yeah.   She's on the mend, which is great.   She said just go and enjoy today, and yeah, I did.  
   
 Q.   Is this just another little case of history repeating itself?  
SIMON KHAN:   Maybe, yeah, you never know.   In 2010, I didn't think it was enough.   The finish was probably a little more difficult then than it is now.   Softened 17 and 18 a bit, so there are chances coming in now.   
So I think maybe it's not quite enough, but I thought in 2010 it would be at best a playoff; I didn't expect to be able to do that.   But yeah, we'll see.   
   
 Q.   2010 was 66 to close from seven back, wasn't it?   
SIMON KHAN:   Yeah, that's right, yeah.   I did think of that on the last standing over that little putt; I knew I needed this one.   
It was a great day and I played really, really good.   I didn't miss a drive and my irons were better today than yesterday, so that was good.   Gave myself a lot more chances.   Just missed a couple of shores‑ish ones on the front nine to really get it going but I was really pleased with the finish.   
17, a little bit disappointed because that's such a good tee shot, and I hit a rescue in there and I didn't birdie it.   But part from that, you know, I can't complain.   
   
 Q.   Not just a final day charge, because we have spoken other days this week and you've had nice consistency by and large?  
SIMON KHAN:   Yeah, I've played well all week.   I said to you the other day, something clicked on the range on Wednesday, and I've been working hard at it, though, as well.   My short game is better this week than it has been all year really.   All that chipping in the garden, I suppose has worked out.  
   
 Q.   In the context of not actually playing competitively for two months, that's quite something.   
SIMON KHAN:   Yeah, it is.   You don't know what to expect sometimes but certainly I was looking forward to it like no other tournament I think I've ever had.   So after everything that's happened, just couldn't wait to get out there and play.   
   
 Q.   Three years ago, you were milling around, you went to the range, you were there for ages; so what's the plan today?  
SIMON KHAN:   I think I'll go out and have a look.   Looks like Marc is on a bit of a charge.   I'll see what happens.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT