BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 11, 2016
Bud Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BUD MARTIN: He's all right, he's just got some back issues and is in a little bit of pain.  He's getting treatment right now.  I don't think it's anything that he hasn't dealt with before.  The trainer is maybe thinking it's the same type of thing that he dealt with I think at the Barclays and last year where he picked something up in his bus and it kind of got out of line.  I guess he was bending over on one of the tees and picked his ball up.  But just better safe than sorry.
Q. It wasn't any particular swing?
BUD MARTIN: No, he just bent over and it kind of went on him on the 9th hole.  Basically, instead of forcing it, we just decided that it was more prudent to kind of come in, get it worked on, and deal with it.
Q. It hadn't been bothering him at all?
BUD MARTIN: No, he hasn't had any problems.  He's got a constant maintenance program here that he'll work, so.
Q. Is it the same location?
BUD MARTIN: I'm not a doctor, but it's the same location, probably.  But he's got a real good trainer, Cornell Driessen is a superstar and he's been working on it.  We'll probably get a MRI just to double check.  My gut is that he'll be fine.
Q. Is he going to be able to take any questions or?
BUD MARTIN: No, he's not going to take any questions.  He's on his stomach right now getting worked on.  He'll be okay and as soon as I get an update, I'll let you know.
Q. Would you describe it as precautionary right now?
BUD MARTIN: Yeah, I think so.  Better safe and sorry.  Hopefully, he'll be ready for Atlanta, but the most important thing is the next 15 years, not the next 15 days.
Q. Same back location from Match Play or I mean --
BUD MARTIN: I don't have the exact thing, but Cornell, his trainer, basically says it's similar to what happened at BMW last year, when he kind of picked something up in his bus.  Because he was bending over and picking a tee up, it was just a movement that triggered it.  So we'll see.
Q. He was picking a tee up, that's what triggered it?
BUD MARTIN: Yeah, he was picking the tee up and that's what triggered it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT