WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: POOL D
March 9, 2013
Chris Colabello
Marco Mazzieri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We'll get started with Team USA.   Open it up for questions. 

Q.   Joe, Mariano Riviera made it official today that's retiring.   Just your thoughts and comments on him. 
JOE TORRE:   He's a special person.   I felt privileged to not only know him, but know what he did as a closer and certainly kept me there as a setup man that first year.   And what he did on the field is just a fraction of what he does off the field. 
He's a special human being and I'm happy for him.   Because I know last year he was sort of torn and then once he got hurt, there was no way he was going to go out like that. 

Q.   Joe, I don't know how much you followed of what just happened, but both managers, as a result of what happened in the first game, both managers basically said that they think that the tie breaker rule, based on run differential, number one, led to what happened and Ernie Whitt said basically that he's strongly opposed to that rule.   Do you have feelings on that rule and how much does that affect anything about how you play these games? 
JOE TORRE:   Well, obviously I'm speaking as a manager and nothing else, but rules are different, obviously, than we're used to playing; and even though we're supposed to know them, I'm not sure how many of the players know the rules.   That becomes a bigger problem.   So I certainly understand their feelings and their wishes. 

Q.   Could you think of a better type of tie breaker situation than using run differential? 
JOE TORRE:   I won't even go into that.   I have trouble remembering my phone number.   I'm not going to start with that stuff. 

Q.   Derek, can you speak about tomorrow's start, your thoughts going into it. 
DEREK HOLLAND:   The main focus is we just got to worry about tonight's game first and then go out there tomorrow and do what we're supposed to do and win. 
We got to take it one game at a time and not worry about what's happening with the rest of the guys, with Mexico and Canada playing each other, or anybody else, we got to worry about what we got to take care of out there. 
THE MODERATOR:   All right.   Thank you, guys.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT