PURE SILK CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY VISIT WILLIAMSBURG
May 24, 2019
Jacqui Concolino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Two days in a row and a lot of birdies in between.  What is it about this course that makes you feel so comfortable out there?
JACQUI CONCOLINO: Well, I think this year with it not being overseeded, the Bermuda, I feel at home.  And the greens are perfect.  If you hit a good putt it's going to go in.
Feeling good about the putting and it's working.
Q. What is it about these greens that you feel so comfortable with the putter?
JACQUI CONCOLINO: You can see the lines so easy and the pace of the greens are very hole-able.  It's not out-of-control fast so you can get aggressive if you need to.
You make some more putts doing that.
Q. How much more confident did you have after yesterday's round to bring that momentum forward today?
JACQUI CONCOLINO: Yeah, still confidence is always building I think for everyone.  The more rounds you can put together in succession, the more it builds.  Hopefully keep it going for the weekend.
Q. You said you really like this event and the fans.
JACQUI CONCOLINO: Yeah.
Q. You got a unique group of fans following you around this time.  Explain that a little bit.
JACQUI CONCOLINO: Yeah, it's kind of a Happy Gilmore scene at times.  It's great.  I became really good friends with the guys over at Sportsman's Grill down the road.  The Allied Group, they have a couple of condos on hole 9.  It's been great.  Probably about 20, 25 people come out tomorrow or so.  Just really good energy and great friends.
Q. How much do you feed off that when you're out there?
JACQUI CONCOLINO: I definitely feed off it, especially when you're playing well.  You know, you want to make more birdies and hear the roars and the, Go Concs or Jacquis.  Definitely feed off it.  I think everybody does.
Q. What's the strategy for tomorrow and the upcoming weekend?
JACQUI CONCOLINO: Just keep a level head really.  You're going to hit some loose shots.  If you can just get over them quickly and move on to the next one being, try and make birdie.
Q. Not sure there is such a thing as a bogey save, but on 18 there, seemed like you...
JACQUI CONCOLINO: The bunker shot was just sitting a little down so tried to go after it and caught it heavy.  There was a piece plastic under the sand that stopped the club and it bounced and went way over the green.
But just a bad break with the piece of plastic drainage pipe they have down there.  Nothing you could do.  It is what it is and it was a good bogey save.
Q. What did you hit into 8?
JACQUI CONCOLINO: Yeah, 6-iron, 156 or something like that into the wind; a little uphill.
Q. Was the closest you hit it all day?
JACQUI CONCOLINO: Yeah, definitely.  (Laughter.)  Any time it's a tap-in is probably the closest one.
Q. How is the confidence level at this point?
JACQUI CONCOLINO: It's good.  Confidence level is building and looking forward to the weekend.  Got a great team around me, great friends out here, and looking forward to it.
Q. What's it like?  It helpful when Song is playing good and you're all playing...
JACQUI CONCOLINO: Yeah, Jennifer and I are good friends.  We were just talking about it in the tent.  We fed off each other.  She made a birdie I made a birdie; she was making birdies on top of me.  It was really fun the last two days.
When you have a good group, good friends, and you're playing well, it's definitely easy to feed off it.
Q. Was it easier to score today or were you just playing that well today?
JACQUI CONCOLINO: I don't know.  The wind kind of switched like midway through the round which they said it would.  This golf course if you hit it good you're going to have some good birdie looks.  The greens are perfect, so you don't even have to hit it that close and you're still going to have a good birdie look.
Q. This is a lot different than last year when you guys needed water wings and everything.
JACQUI CONCOLINO: Yeah, yeah.
Q. How nice is it to come to a place that you like to come when the conditions are good?
JACQUI CONCOLINO: Yeah, it's phenomenal with not going doing the overseed.  The fairways are running fast, so some of the longer holes are playing shorter than typically did.
Hitting wedges instead of 7-irons.  If you keep it in the fairway you're going to get some extra yardage than we were in the past for sure.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT