MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 20, 2013
Jacqui Concolino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about your chip‑in on 17? 
  JACQUI CONCOLINO:   Well, it was a poor first chip, obviously.   Then just one of those where you get it on the green with a little bit of top spin, and it's going to get tracked and possibly go in.   It looked good the whole way. 
 Q.   Saved yourself there.   Paula made the same shot right‑left, and it seems that you're going to have to make those type of shots to win this thing?
  JACQUI CONCOLINO:   Yeah, absolutely.   It was my second chip‑in this week, and hopefully I've got another one in me for tomorrow. 
 Q.   I'm just hearing the story now about last year.   You played super well last year after coming early and all that good stuff.   Everybody said you knew the numbers before you started playing.   Talk about that background story and how things have come? 
  JACQUI CONCOLINO:   I came a couple weeks earlier and talked to the head pro and director of golf.   They welcomed me out here.   So came out and got a game with a couple of members.   And lucky enough, they've been good friends and good supporters. 
 Q.   Is that just kind of a comfort level?   I was telling him you're someone who knows people, and you play well where you're comfortable? 
  JACQUI CONCOLINO:   Yeah, yeah, I think that's one of the reasons why I feel comfortable out here.   It's just a very homie feeling here.   So I really enjoy it and definitely looking forward to coming back next year. 
 Q.   So three rounds in the 60s? 
  JACQUI CONCOLINO:   I believe so. 
 Q.   So playing solid golf, just very confident, very comfortable.   Have you been working on anything that you wanted to click that has clicked this week? 
  JACQUI CONCOLINO:   Yeah, just working on a couple things on my swing.   Had a couple new short game shots that I got in the bag this week, and they've helped me out tremendously.   Short games have been spot on, so I'll keep that going tomorrow, and I'll give myself a good shot at the tournament. 
 Q.   Have you been working with someone on short game specifics? 
  JACQUI CONCOLINO:   I've been working with Joe Hallet on my swing, and Kenny Nairn back in Orlando on short game.   He's going to go with me to Scotland as well.   So he's from there, and grew up there.   Played the course a bunch of times so, it should be good. 
 Q.   That's your first time at St. Andrews?
  JACQUI CONCOLINO:   Yeah. 
 Q.   I meant to look at the criteria.   How did you get in? 
  JACQUI CONCOLINO:   I think I got in on the top 90 on the money list. 
 Q.   There is a section in the LPGA Player Guide where they've asked players how did you spend your first check, your first professional check.   And there are answers like Lincoln Town Car and Toyota 4‑Runner and Louis Vuitton purses.   Your answer was a bag of tees.   I'm wondering was that check for like 89‑cents or something? 
  JACQUI CONCOLINO:   It probably was, yeah. 
 Q.   Do you remember giving that answer? 
  JACQUI CONCOLINO:   No, I don't.   But I remember buying tees, for sure.   It was in mobile was my first LPGA check last year, and I needed tees after that.   We were going to the next tournament. 
 Q.   I was telling Dave about you taking off a year and coming back to competitive golf, getting revived and things like that.   Looking back on that break, do you think that's something that you always needed to do? 
  JACQUI CONCOLINO:   Yeah, I always needed it.   Just got a little burnt out in college and needed some time to myself.   Ever since I was 13, I've been doing everything for golf, golf, golf.   I never really had some time to enjoy your friends and family how you would want to. 
  So that's what I did for about a year and a half, two years and started getting back on track. 
 Q.   You've won tournaments before.   You know how in the position going in you're a couple shots back.   Are you comfortable?   Do you like coming up from behind coming into Sunday? 
  JACQUI CONCOLINO:   Obviously, you'd rather be in the lead, have any advantage you can on anybody or tied for the lead.   I'm going to do the best I can, and if that's not good enough, I'm going to try next week. 
 Q.   Everybody that comes on this Tour is dreaming the same dream.   Do you think about that tonight?   Do you try to just close it off?   I mean, when do you start thinking about winning?   When do you let it fester? 
  JACQUI CONCOLINO:   At your rookie meeting, after Q‑School they ask you what your goals are, and every rookie's answer is to win majors, to win tournaments.   Realistically, I knew that probably wasn't an option last year because there is a lot of growing that has to be done out here to get in that position unless you're a phenom like Lydia Ko or a couple of these other girls.   So there is definitely a learning curve out here and everyone has to go through it.  
 Q.   Are you ready to cross that curve, do you think? 
  JACQUI CONCOLINO:   I think so.   I think I'm mentally stable enough.   I've put myself in a position before.   You know, maybe not this close to the lead or this close to the final group.   But I've been there on Sunday within a few shots, so I'll draw on that and do the best I can.  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT