MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 14, 2018
Jacqui Concolino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Nice birdie on 18.  That's a good way to cap off the round.
JACQUI CONCOLINO: Yeah, always a good way to finish with a birdie on 18.  Doesn't matter where you are, what golf course it is.
Q. Slowly just chipping away.  Just stay at the top.  What was working well for you?
JACQUI CONCOLINO: Just, I mean, I've been preparing it all week, and it seems cliché, but just trying to keep a level head out there.  I wasn't making many putts early on, but kept it together and got a few on the back nine, and hopefully give a run at it tomorrow.
Q. What is your mindset going into tomorrow?
JACQUI CONCOLINO: Just continue to do what I've been doing.  Just stick to my game plan.  I know this golf course pretty well.  I know where I can get aggressive.  Where I need to play safe, where maybe someone else can play aggressive.  So if I just stick to my game plan, I'll do pretty good.
Q. Do you prefer to be a stroke back?  Do you prefer to be in the lead?
JACQUI CONCOLINO: I don't think I've ever held a 54-hole lead and it looks like I'm going to be at least one or two back.  So it is what it is.  I'll just give it my best tomorrow and see where it puts me.
Q. How aware during your round were you of where you stood on the leaderboards?  Do you watch it at all?
JACQUI CONCOLINO: A little bit.  I saw that Brooke wasn't running away with it early on.  So I figured if I could stay patient on the back side and get a couple more birdies, that I might have a chance going into tomorrow.
Q. Do you like the way the course is now, because there is a possibility for rain, as the so-called experts were talking about?
JACQUI CONCOLINO: Yeah, the golf course played a little softer today maybe because of the overcast.  Just kept a little moisture on the greens.  They were a little slower.  But if it's like that tomorrow, we'll have a game plan knowing what it's like today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT