MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 13, 2018
Jacqui Concolino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. We've been seeing your name start to pop up on the leaderboards just recently.  What have you been doing differently?
JACQUI CONCOLINO: Just trusting myself more than anything.  I know I have the game, and if I can keep a good mindset out there, I feel like I can compete with the best in the world.
Q. What is it about this golf course that seems to be to your liking so far?
JACQUI CONCOLINO: I don't know, it's just a great atmosphere here.  Marathon does a great job with the loudest hole, I think it's 14 or 15, the par-3.  18 is a great setup here with the par-5.  I mean, I've made so many friends here through the Inverness Pro-Am, that they raise money for local charity.  I have a good fan base here and a good group of friends, and it's nice to have their support all week.
Q. What do you need to get done at the weekend to take home the trophy?
JACQUI CONCOLINO: Just keep a level mind, really.  My bad rounds or bad shots maybe not good tournaments come from me getting in my own way, so if I can just stay out of my own way, I think I'll have a good shot this week.
Q. Obviously yesterday was a struggle for some in the afternoon, but obviously you were consistent, still in the hunt this afternoon.
JACQUI CONCOLINO: Yeah, tried to stay patient.  This golf course really firms up in the afternoon, so just trying to give myself some opportunities and minimize any mistakes that you do make out there because it is golf and you're human.  I did a good job of that today, and proud of the way that I hung in there and came in under par.
Q. Is there anything you can do preparation-wise when you play in the morning versus later in the day like this, or do you just have to roll with it?
JACQUI CONCOLINO: You just kind of have to roll with it, knowing that a few shots or tee shots or second shots, you can land them short or let them chase up to the pin.  Just thinking back on some previous tournaments here and trying to use that to your advantage.
Q. I guess specifically what worked well for you today to shoot 2-under?
JACQUI CONCOLINO: It was just a solid ball-striking day.  It certainly wasn't my Sunday best, but I hit it good enough to be able to score and hit a couple close iron shots, converted on a few of them and had a couple good par putts and kept some momentum going.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT