NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: MAGIC v CAVALIERS
May 27, 2009
Wally Szezerbiak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What do you try? You guys say, "We've tried everything."   
 WALLY SZCZERBIAK: Now we're trying the small ball to match up with them a little bit more. And I think that can be effective at times, no question. But they can put a lot of small guys on the floor with Dwight. That was effective last game. We've just got to figure out a way to make it work.  
 But the bottom line is the team that's going to make shots and the more aggressive team on offense and defense is going to win. And there's been ebbs and flows and runs in the series. So we need to make sure when they make their runs for us we don't get too down. And when we make our runs at them we keep the pedal to the metal. And that team's going to win.   
  
  Q. How has their shooting been this year?  
 WALLY SZCZERBIAK: Very impressive. Like I said just recently, they do a good job getting into a nice flow and nice rhythm. They shoot freely. They don't worry about missing. They throw the ball very well. They get open looks. When they get open looks they take them.  
 And they don't turn down open shots, even if it's early in the shot clock, they play very free up and down the floor, and encourage those type of shots and that helps you get into the rhythm really quickly. So they're doing a good job of it.  
  
  Q. You guys have been loose all year. Are you able to stay loose now?  
 WALLY SZCZERBIAK: I think we've been loose. I think the attitude in the locker room before the game and during the game has been very relaxed. We tried to go out there and play our game, but you gotta give Orlando a lot of credit. They've done a lot to hinder us and combat our defense, which has been our strength the entire season.  
 They've been making shots all over the place and been scoring in the paint with Dwight Howard, so they're a team that poses a lot of matchup problems for us. And we've found ways to adjust and we've found ways to give ourselves a chance to win. And that's what we have to do these next couple of games, take one game at a time, and, starting with tomorrow, try to get a win.  
  
  Q. Do you ever just wonder how long a team can stay hot this long?  
 WALLY SZCZERBIAK: We hope so, 17 3s, when I look at the stats, 50 -- 45 percent from 3 and we still have a chance to win the game in regulation. Normally, when a team shoots that high a percentage and makes that many 3s, you're not giving yourself too good of a chance to win. It shows our fight and our heart and our determination just to figure out one way or another to get the job done.   
 So hopefully they start missing a few here and there, and we can continue to try to get some guys into a rhythm and into a flow to help LeBron out, because he's been spectacular in this series, and maybe we can get a few wins starting with tomorrow night.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT