SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 2, 2018
Matthew Mitchell
Taylor Murray
Maci Morris
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Mississippi State - 81, Kentucky - 58
THE MODERATOR: We'll start with an opening statement from coach.
MATTHEW MITCHELL: Well congratulate Mississippi State on their win and wish we could have played better today.
THE MODERATOR: We'll take questions for the student-athletes, please.
Q. You guys were with them in the first quarter, everything seemed to be going really well and then I think they hit a bunch of threes and the 19-2 run.  Can you talk about what those moments are like in those games and what they're able to do so effectively?
MACI MORRIS: They're a good shooting team, they were just distributing the ball really well and we were just having a hard time just trying to matchup with them and they were just knocking down shots.
Q. Maci, can you talk about what you were seeing from them defensively?  They just mentioned that they were really trying to put a number on you, so can you just talk about what you were seeing from them defensively?
MACI MORRIS: Yeah, they did a good job, they were just making it really tough for me to get any shots off or even drive or pass or anything, so they did a good job of doing that.
Q. Taylor, talk about your game with 15 points, seven rebounds, three assists, but being sort of all over the court for 34 minutes against that team?
TAYLOR MURRAY: I just kept trying to do what coach wanted to us do.  He wanted us to stay aggressive and keep attacking them, so I just kept on attacking and being aggressive.
THE MODERATOR: All right.  We'll take questions now for coach.
Q. What did you see during that 19-2 run?  What were the things you were able to do to sort of get ahead?
MATTHEW MITCHELL: Well, it just, it became an extremely physical game and that's what's happened with us all three times.  We're able to play with them and then they're able to turn up their physicality and just make it real hard to move and cut and just real difficult.  So we didn't handle it well, turned the ball over, and they're an incredible shooting team and they're shooting the ball really well.  So they're awfully tough.
Q. You have the majority of the players back for this team next year.  Does that give you something to build on from this point going forward?
MATTHEW MITCHELL: Well, wish we could have played better in this tournament because it's a great tournament to compete in and to win and I wished we played better in this tournament.
Q. That first quarter obviously your game plan was working for you, you had such a solid first quarter there, so what's your conversation in the huddle then as you're trying to rebound from a second quarter that really was less than what you needed today?
MATTHEW MITCHELL: Well we had it 13 at halftime, I thought that was still within striking distance, but we just didn't, came out and didn't play very well.  So we were just talking at halftime trying to be aggressive and trying to play through contact the best you can and get your hips low and try to fight through it.  It's really difficult.  So we were not successful at doing that.
THE MODERATOR: All right, thank you very much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT