WNBA FINALS: FEVER v LYNX
October 6, 2015
Tamika Catchings
Briann January
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Indiana Fever - 71
  Minnesota Lynx - 77

Q. Tamika, will you talk about your foul situation and how it impacted what you thought you could do tonight and then just the playing time late in the game when you're playing with five fouls. Is that a discussion with you and Steph or a trust that you're going to stay in the game? 
TAMIKA CATCHINGS: Definitely a trust that I was going to stay in the game. As far as the foul situation, I mean I think our game and when you look at the history of just basketball, some calls go the way you want them and some calls go the way you don't want them. Unfortunately, for me, it didn't necessarily go the way I wanted to. 
But I felt like my team competed really hard. We put ourselves in a position to win this game. At the end of the day, we're frustrated more so because we didn't take advantage of the opportunities that we had. 
So beyond everything else that went wrong tonight, the one thing when we look at each other and we look in our eyes, we know we didn't take care of business tonight when it came down the stretch.

Q. (No microphone)?
TAMIKA CATCHINGS: Just lost focus. As a team, we lost our poise, we lost our composure, and we're too good for that. We're too good of a team to let things like that detour us and what we're trying to do and what we're trying to accomplish. So at the end of the day, yeah, we make mistakes, and a lot of times you're just trying to thread the needle. Instead of making the awesome play, we just need to make a play, and we didn't take care of it. We didn't take care of business down the stretch.

Q. Briann, you guys looked like you were going to go into halftime maybe down and Maggie hits the three with the foul and you guys go one up. Did you feel that was a momentum push for you guys into the second half? 
BRIANN JANUARY: Definitely. That was a great way to head into the half. But as you know, when you play against a good team, it's a game of runs. They weren't going to let that defeat them. They were going to come back. They were going to answer back and they did. That's what this game is about. When two great teams are going at each other, there is going to be a run eventually. We're going to go on runs ourselves and they are too. It's all about responding to those.

Q. The series is going to revert back to Indiana on Friday. What can we expect to see with you playing in front of your home crowd? 
TAMIKA CATCHINGS: The best fans in the WNBA going to be in the house.
BRIANN JANUARY: That's right.
TAMIKA CATCHINGS: And we're going to come and we're going to be ready. I told our team and we told our team, we are going to bottle up every sense of frustration, every sense of anger, every sense of knowing what we didn't do and what we didn't accomplish tonight, put that in a bottle and let it explode when we get back home.

Q. Briann, was it just a matter of time? It seemed like you had Maya frustrated for the first half and maybe into the second half. Was it just a matter of time? Is she that type of player where she's going to get it figured out eventually? 
BRIANN JANUARY: I don't know about figured it out, but she's going to hit some tough shots and we were prepared for that. With a great player, you can just do your best to make her uncomfortable. But I think we did a good job of keeping her on her toes. Making her take tough fadeaway shots that were contested. 
Yeah, with a player like that, you can't let her get loose. You have to stay connected the entire time. Yeah, we're going to continue to work. It's not a one person job. It's a team defense that we do, so everybody has to have each other's back, especially when you have great players like that all around. We have to be together and united on our defensive front.

Q. You missed your last five three pointers in this game?
BRIANN JANUARY: I think we just weren't settling. We were as aggressive in the first half to the rim, but that's one of the things we need to continue. That's our style of basketball. We are an aggressive style basketball playing team. We need to keep attacking. We have some of the best rim attackers in the league, and that's what we need to stick to and we need to maintain throughout the course of the game. That's how we get easier shots on the perimeter.

Q. How strongly do you feel like you guys missed an opportunity tonight? 
TAMIKA CATCHINGS: Very strong, very strong. I think Minnesota came out and they played really, really good. They played very, very good tonight. I think for us they played very, very good tonight. I think for us, overall when you look at the heart this team has and what we've accomplished to be here, that says a lot. 
So when you look at a missed opportunity, I'm shaking because I'm very frustrated. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT