NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2015
Tamika Catchings
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  USA Basketball just launched their coach licensing program. I was going to ask you, for USA Basketball, any youth coach that sticks with you that made a big impression on you?  TAMIKA CATCHINGS: As far as youth coach, I would have to say my gym teacher had a big influence on me. Not necessarily my coach, but her name was Coach Janusiac back in junior high. I think the biggest thing that sticks with me is just her influence in making sure that all the girls participated in sports, participated in different things they had in gym class. I love gym class, but I love playing. I think her influence on me back then was great.   Q.  I spoke to your mom for a USA Basketball story, I don't know if you ever saw that, about six months ago. Talk about what it's like growing up and playing basketball. How you got into it.  TAMIKA CATCHINGS: Okay.   Q.  What do you remember most from your youth basketball games?  TAMIKA CATCHINGS: For me, the thing I remember the most is starting basketball when I was in third grade. That was the first time I played basketball. And I know everybody was kind of like, that's weird you waited that late. But I played soccer first. Then I played softball. Then I actually played organized basketball. My dad was the coach.   Q.  How was your dad as a coach?  TAMIKA CATCHINGS: Dad as a coach, he was good, especially back then. We're young. So he wasn't too forceful. Not too harsh on us. But he was a good coach.   Q.  What can you tell us about Becky Hammon and her role with Popovich?  TAMIKA CATCHINGS: I'm so excited for her. When you look at a WNBA player such as Becky, as far as being an ambassador for all of us, opening doors. I couldn't think of anybody better. She's a great person. But I think her commitment to basketball and what she brings to the Spurs organization is great as far as her knowledge of the game, thinking outside the box, I guess. She brings a lot to the organization  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT