NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 15, 2013
Tamika Catchings
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Both of you guys are seasoned veterans, what is it like to see all this attention?
TAMIKA CATCHINGS:   This is cool.   This is the first time I've done celebrity day, but people are excited about it.   They're excited about NBA All‑Star Weekend and all the activities that go with it.   For us to be able to be here, people coming over here, and showing us the love on stage with us ‑‑ you're bringing more people over here. 

Q.   You guys have seen this game grow since your college years. 
TAMIKA CATCHINGS:   We just are the ambassadors for the league, so I think this is in a better place than when we first came in.   An opportunity like this, all eyes are on the NBA.   We hope more people are introduced to the W.

Q.   A little bit ago Roger Brown was named to the Basketball Hall of Fame, this is a special day.   What is it like to represent the Fever?
TAMIKA CATCHINGS:   It's awesome.   It's great.I feel like the class coming in is great.   I'm excited.   I'm excited about having them come in.   And excited seeing what they will do. 

Q.   How about the Indiana Fever coming off the championship, what are you guys looking to do to hopefully repeat next year?
TAMIKA CATCHINGS:   I think the biggest thing is coming out, everybody getting better in the offseason.   Every team will be better.   Once we get going in the season every team will be a better team.   Everybody needs to come back better.   I'm excited.   I think we have an opportunity ‑‑ we do have an opportunity to repeat.   But there's going to be a lot of people that are going to be coming after us, coming off the championship run.   A lot of people didn't think we would be in the position we were last year.   We'll come out this year ‑‑ I don't feel like there is any more pressure on us.   I feel like we have to come out and have fun and enjoy the game. 

Q.   (Inaudible). 
TAMIKA CATCHINGS:   I just got back from China.   I played overseas the last three months, came back mid‑January.   So really right now I'm just taking a break.   Once I get back in the gym, not necessarily adding anything more to my game, but just trying to get better with the things that I'm doing, become a better shooter, keep working on my shooting skills, defensively.   And then for me most importantly my leadership skills is something I'll continue to work on over and over every single year.   I want to be the best leader for my teammates.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT