SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: FLORIDA VS ALABAMA
November 28, 2016
O.J. Howard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We'll start with O.J. Howard.   
O.J., if you can, just give us your general thoughts on the Alabama team entering Saturday's game.   
O.J. HOWARD: I think we'll have a great game on Saturday.  (Indiscernible).  Just looking forward to it.   
 Q.  Can you just talk about going into that stadium and seeing all that red and how it almost feels like a home game for you guys.  
O.J. HOWARD: Yeah.  I think they go everywhere but really well for Atlanta.  I think we'll have a great crowd.  Whenever we go to Atlanta, it feels like home.  I think it does a great job for our players, just to feel that environment.  It's like a home game for us.   
 Q.  O.J., Jonathan Allen's decision to return, he obviously didn't have to come back.  Where have you seen him make the most improvement?  
O.J. HOWARD: I would just say overall John really just the understanding of being a better player.  He keeps trying to pick up little tips from the offensive line.  We've seen it in practice.  You've seen him use his hands very well.  He's a very powerful guy.  He's done a great job just getting in the weight room and getting stronger in this off-season.  It really has shown this season.   
 Q.  Is he kind of where it all begins with that incredible defense you guys have?  
O.J. HOWARD: With him, I think it starts up front with all those guys.  Him, he's a leader over the entire defense, especially the defensive line.  He does a great job day in and day out of just preparing for the game, and on Saturday he shows up.   
 Q.  What's the most important thing for you guys to take from last year's experience into this game this year?  
O.J. HOWARD: I would say just the way we prepare.  Last year, like I say, it was a hard fought game for us.  Knowing this year, it's going to be the same way.  The SEC Championship is a very big game each year.  We've got to take it just as important as we take any other game.  But playing Florida once again, those guys are going to come out and be physical the entire game.   
We'll come out this week, get an early start, and get ready for a tough game.   
 Q.  O.J., one of their players called -- Florida's players called this game a minor league NFL type of game, just with the draft-caliber talent that's going to be on the field.  When you get to this time of the year, do you expect that to be the case no matter the team that you guys play?  
O.J. HOWARD: Yeah, I think that's accurate.  Whenever you get around this time of year, these teams are going to be really good teams.  They deserve to make it this far for a reason, because they're good.  There's going to be a lot of talent on both sides.  It's going to be a good game, hard fought, because there's so much at stake.  So I would say that's very true.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT