GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 13, 2016
Andrew Bogut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Grizzlies - 104, Warriors - 125
Q. Andrew, what did Coach say before the game?  What were you all saying to each other before the game?  You obviously are heavy favorites, there is a lot on the line, but was there a concern that you still have to go out and win the game?
ANDREW BOGUT: I don't really consider it.  It was more that he mentioned it was going to be a playoff-like atmosphere and playoff-like intensity for both teams.  Obviously they would have liked to have knocked us off and take that ribbon away from us, but we thought it would be great preparation going into the weekend.
Q. You talked about how numbers didn't mean much to you and the ring means a lot more.  Even having said that in those final seconds when they're ticking away, did you have any emotion come over you?  Did you come around on this one?
ANDREW BOGUT: A little bit.  It's history, but there is added pressure on us there to win the Championship.  With great things comes more responsibility, and this is one of those things.  Obviously, we're going to enjoy tonight, but tomorrow it's back to business.  Watch some film on Houston, have a light day in the gym probably and have a team dinner and get on the floor Friday and play Saturday.
So we're hoping we'd have a Sunday game, but the NBA sees otherwise, so we've got a pretty quick turnaround.  But it's something that's going to be there for a while.  Hopefully it doesn't get broken again, but at the same time we have to make sure we capitalize by getting a ring.
Q. This last month how heavy was it on a daily basis just to put up with all our questions and talk about this every day?
ANDREW BOGUT: It was tough in a way.  In March we didn't have two days off in a row since February, so we played every other day or back-to-back, so that took its toll late March.  A lot of guys were tired and banged up and playing huge minutes.  So hearing the same question over and over as well, some guys handled it well, some guys didn't.
But we had a common goal.  We weren't trying to milk this thing, and Coach Kerr wasn't playing the last 45 minutes or 40 minutes to go for the record.  I think that's a beautiful thing, and the beautiful thing about what's happened here because we're here for the last four nights, but for the most part he wasn't grinding us into the ground trying to get this record.  To me that's the smart way to do it, and we still got it done.  So it's pretty impressive.
Q. Do you look forward to 20 years from now, you set this record and reporters coming to you and asking about the next team that's trying to break it, just so you can make some comments about them?
ANDREW BOGUT: You want to ask me about anything or say everyone sucked and we were the best and back in my day and the game's changed.  It's just watered down and it's crap.  That's exactly what I'm going to say in 20 years time, just like I'm feeling with everybody else (laughter).  I hope I'm not like that.  We do get bitter when we get old.  But I respect every era and I think every era brings something different to the game.  And you can't take away from what anyone did in the '60s, '70s or '80s.  You can only play with what you've got.  Unfortunately you can't push a ball and the Bulls are healthy and young and playing us right now.  But it's a great talking point.  But, you know, it's kind of pointless to talk about it.  Talk about the present.
Q. Is it a relief to have made history and be as healthy as this team is as a collective for a long time?
ANDREW BOGUT: We're healthy right now, but we've had adjustments to make throughout.  We've had different guys out of the lineup throughout different points.  Andre is a huge part of our bench, and we were missing him at a time.  Festus missed a little bit, but he's had a pretty good year health-wise.
Steph has been a little banged up at times, even though he's played through it.  Klay the same, Draymond the same.  But hasn't been perfect injury-wise, so now I guess we get the same old crap again that we're perfectly healthy.  So at least we have that in our favor, so we'll get those questions now.
Q. There is so much talk about how you guys weren't getting the proper respect.  Now you guys have the all-time wins record.  How do you feel about going into the playoffs?  I imagine you're going to be the favorite and at the top of every NBA team?
ANDREW BOGUT: Yeah, we've been on both sides of that.  I came here in the first year and every game we were picked to lose, so it's opposite now.  We're not really buying into that too much.  I think our group's a tight-knit group, and we know what lies ahead.
It's going to be even tougher now.  All the attention and the record, I'm guessing there are people out there that want us to lose now.  So we have to come out there with our mindset.  We have a tough Houston team coming in.  They're in the playoffs.  But once the playoffs start, it's a different ballgame.  They want to come in and try to shock the world (Indiscernible).
Q. Andrew, people do stay this will never be broken, 73 wins.  Having lived it for the last six months, why do you think people think it will never be broken?
ANDREW BOGUT: Well, I think one thing is they might change the amount of games the way the league's going.  So there are a lot of people complaining about teams resting guys or whatnot.  Let's hope they lower the number and that definitely will be forever.  But you never thought anyone would break the Bulls record.  I mean they were going through the season didn't think it was possible without injuries and stuff and that can happen.  But to have the opportunity to do it, it's something that will live on forever.
The guys in the locker room hang on to memorabilia in there, because it will be something that will be very special for a very long time.  But we've embraced it, we've enjoyed it right.  And now the next step is getting that number to 89.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT