NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 10, 2015
Andrew Bogut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What do you think about Stephen Curry's play in the first half?   What switched? 
ANDREW BOGUT:   He made shots.   He's a shooter.   He's a gunner.   He's going to make shots.   He found his shot in the second half and brought us back in the game.   So he'll keep shooting, and hopefully he'll make it.

Q.   Teams slowed you down all year, specifically in transition offense.   But it seems they're using a lot of the shot clock, and they're not taking kind of wild shots before you guys can get down on the break.   What do you have to do to counter that? 
ANDREW BOGUT:   Well, it's tough because, like you said, they're trying to run the clock down to 10, 9 every possession, so we can't get more possessions up and get that flow.   So then the offense all of a sudden you don't get transition threes or transition baskets and it's much tougher to score that way. 
They've been on with tempo, and we've got to readjust to it.   But Memphis did the same thing to us the first three or four games and we broke that one open.   So let's hope we can do the same thing.

Q.   You and Draymond and Harrison, they're guarding against you so much, and you guys rely on each other.   How does everybody else find their flow?   How have you managed to do that throughout the season? 
ANDREW BOGUT:   Just try to be aggressive.   I guess Stephen's play gets so much attention that sometimes we can get some easy baskets early to help you.   Give you some confidence offensively.   But they've been doing a great job of blitzing early on those two guys, and they're rotating early, so it ends up being the second or third or the hockey assist that's going to be the shot that's going to be wide open.

Q.   Can you stay in the flow of your plan, 17, 18 minutes a game? 
ANDREW BOGUT:   It's no excuse.   I need to play better.   There is no excuse for it.   To say you're tired, injuries, Finals, minutes, just keep the minutes going in the game, and be aggressive.

Q.   Do you use that Memphis series when you went down to try to draw on that to get back in the series? 
ANDREW BOGUT:   Yeah, well I've been there before, so that's probably the only positive side for us is that we've been in this situation a couple of times with our backs completely against the wall.   No one's giving us a shot right now to get out of this series with a victory. 
So we'll go back, watch some film now, adjust.   Stay together as a group, and then get back out tomorrow.

Q.   You talked about no excuses, so it's not frustrating you that Cavs are using a lot of small ball which doesn't suit your game situation? 
ANDREW BOGUT:   No, we've won a lot of games with small ball, so it is what it is.   We have confidence in Coach's rotation and what he does.   If Cleveland goes small (indiscernible) like I did in the fourth quarter, and then we obviously have Draymond at the five or David Lee.   That worked for us yesterday and we got back in the game.   So we'll definitely see some more of that happen.

Q.   Can you explain what they do when you're getting the ball?   What are they doing to you? 
ANDREW BOGUT:   I basically felt with Steph on the pick‑and‑roll, rolling, they'll rotate a guy from the weak side corner, so as a big, you've got to cover your feet, get on the ball in the corner, and then have a wide‑open shot. 
They do a good job of getting their hands into a lot of‑‑ stripping a lot of the balls out of your hands.   You've just got to make sure if you get the ball (indiscernible) to make the pass.

Q.   It doesn't seem that you're getting a lot of the passes you normally get.   That's why I ask that question. 
ANDREW BOGUT:   Oh, no doubt.   They're doing a good job of rotating.   (Indiscernible) backwards, and then that role for me or Festus or David Lee, you've got to go kind of find that open space and do a better job of finding that open space and that outlet.   Then when we get the ball and we have to attack, it's usually a four on three going to the basket.

Q.   David got a few good ones at the end of the game.   Did you see anything you could maybe employ there yourself? 
ANDREW BOGUT:   Yeah, just finding that gap is the biggest thing.   Just finding that space when they blitz Steph.   Find the opening, get the ball and attack the basket.

Q.   Do you feel like the guys are close, because obviously they give you stuff.   You're open all the time and you roll it.   Do you feel like you only have to make that one adjustment and you'll be in there on the offense? 
ANDREW BOGUT:   Yeah, I think so.   I think so.   Our offense is struggling, but I think our defense has been decent.   They're slowing the game down for us a lot, so we take those big shots in transition, when we don't make it, it plays into their hands.   So we'll make that adjustment and look for better shots.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT