NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 6, 2015
Andrew Bogut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Have you had to scout Delly a little bit more now that he looks like he'll come to the starting lineup?   
ANDREW BOGUT:   Not really.   We know what he's about.   He played a lot of minutes in the Atlanta series.   He played very, very well.   So we know they're capable of winning games with Delly starting.   He's a very important player to them.   
So he brings a little bit of a different dynamic than Kyrie, but we still need to be prepared for him.  
   
 Q.   I know you don't read a lot of stuff, but Delly had to catch an Uber home the other night because he missed the bus.   Would you given him a lift if he came calling?   
ANDREW BOGUT:   Probably not now.   Maybe in the regular season.   Maybe in the regular season.   It's all right.   Uber isn't that expensive.   He'll be okay.  
   
 Q.   What he did, were you surprised he was able to perform the way he was?   
ANDREW BOGUT:   A little bit.   He was shooting the ball really well.   In the Chicago series he shot the ball well and closed out that Game, what was it, 5 or 6?   He's done a great job for them.   For a kid that goes undrafted, you can't speak higher of him.   He's done a great job to get to this point.  
   
 Q.   Given his experience in that series, do you think that will help him in this series?   
ANDREW BOGUT:   Probably, yeah.   He's a big‑game player.   He took big shots in college, big shots for the National Team.   He's played in big games throughout his career, and he's always been doubted.   
So I think this is a position where Delly kind of thrives.   So we have to be prepared for that.   We're preparing for him to come out, all guns ablazing.   We have to make sure we're ready for him because if we think it's going to be easy just because Kyrie's out, we've got another thing coming.  
   
 Q.   You've been around and you're a veteran, and you've had injuries and seen people get injuries.   Do you have any opinion why there is such a flurry of severe injuries like the last couple of years to key players and players with big minutes?   Any thoughts on what's going on?   
ANDREW BOGUT:   That's just professional sports, I think.   I don't think there is any rhyme or reason to it.   Some years it happens more than others.   The game is getting quicker.   It's just as physical as it has been, in my opinion, even though a lot of people‑‑ there are not fights like it was in the '80s, but it's still very physical down there.   
But the game is quicker, you have possessions now and you play 40 minutes a night.   It's going to catch up with you eventually.   You never want to see anybody get hurt.   We'd rather have Kyrie playing.   But at the same time, I've been through it, it's a part of pro sports and something you can't control.  
   
 Q.   So other teams, is there that much difference in terms of how you train, in terms of how teams do weight work versus flexibility versus...   
ANDREW BOGUT:   I think a lot has to do with luck.   My two biggest career‑threatening injuries, fell on my ankle after I blocked a shot and snapped my ankle and then came off the rim.   I can't do off‑season training exercise to stop that.   
So a lot of it has to do with luck.   I mean, if you have a player that's constantly overweight and tearing their hamstring and their quad, that's a different story.   But stuff like Kyrie, they're impact injuries or bad move, it's wrong play, it's wrong time.   I can attest to that for sure.  
   
 Q.   In Australia, is there as much summertime ball like you see here in the States in the pro leagues over there?   
ANDREW BOGUT:   They moved it to summer.   The pro league in Australia starts around two months before Christmas.   So it's kind of the opposite to here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT