NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 5, 2015
Andrew Bogut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Guarding Thompson yesterday in the first half, how physical were those two guys for you? 
ANDREW BOGUT:   Pretty physical.   They do a great job, especially Thompson getting to the offensive glass.   If you let him get a free run, which usually happens because we're trying to help on Kyrie and LeBron, if he gets a free run, he's pretty tough to slow down. 
So we've got to do a better job of picking out the poison of what we've got to help.

Q.   What was the schedule for you today, Andrew? 
ANDREW BOGUT:   This is it right now.   We had a light shootaround.   We had film for about 20 minutes.   Talked about a few small adjustments, and we'll practice tomorrow and get back after it the next day.

Q.   How's the body holding up? 
ANDREW BOGUT:   The body is fine.   No problems.   Eye didn't close up, so happy about that.   I feel pretty good.

Q.   You guys had a little bit of a slow start.   Have you guys talked about that? 
ANDREW BOGUT:   No, I mean, this is always going to happen, I think, in Game 1 just because it's new to us.   Couple of those guys have been there.   I don't know if it's a good thing or a bad thing, but we've seen everything.   We've come back from games down 23 points.   In Boston in the regular season we had plenty of those games. 
So I think it's told us that we know we're a team whether we're down 15 or 20 with a quarter left, we're still within striking distance to win a game.

Q.   Matthew Dellavedova was probably on the court about 10 seconds with you.   And you went up to set a screen.   Were you pretty keen to say G'day to him? 
ANDREW BOGUT:   Not him, anybody.   It's not personal for Delly.   Far from that.   My job is to set screens, same I set on Kyrie, and same I set on Shumpert.   And Delly just happened to be in the way.

Q.   Do you and Delly have a beef going? 
ANDREW BOGUT:   Nice story to write in Australia, but no. 

Q.   Are you guys prepared for Kyrie whether he plays? 
ANDREW BOGUT:   Hundred percent.   We've had those games before.   In the series with Conley, and there was Dwight with the Houston series was questionable.   So we don't read into what is reported or listed doubtful or questionable.   We're preparing as if he's playing.   If he doesn't play, we'll make an adjustment 20 minutes before the game and go from there.

Q.   How much stress did you put on rebounding before the game?   Everyone that played got at least three boards. 
ANDREW BOGUT:   Huge, huge stress in rebounding.   It's a huge rebounding game.   We feel like if we can control the boards or at least be even, which has been a stable from the first round.   Every team we've played against has been a good rebounding team.   Memphis was probably one of the best, and Cleveland's up there with them. 
But we know if we win the rebound battle, we generally have a chance of winning.

Q.   Who won the rebound battle with Draymond at the half? 
ANDREW BOGUT:   Tough thing with Draymond in this series, he's got Tristan Thompson.   So he's going to have to give his body up.   When I'm on Tristan, I'm going to have to give my body up.   And we need Klay and Harrison to come in and sneak some rebounds, because you can't turn away from Tristan, because he's just too good offensively.

Q.   Can you talk about adjustments if Kyrie were not to play?   How does that change their team? 
ANDREW BOGUT:   It changes them a lot, but we're not worried about that, though.   We're preparing for him to play.   So we're not going to talk about whether he's not playing.   He's on their team.   He's listed as those he's playing.   Game time we'll make an adjustment.

Q.   What do you think of Mozgov?   You think a lot of people don't know about him, or is he respected in the league? 
ANDREW BOGUT:   I think he's underrated.   He's a solid player in this league (indiscernible).   He didn't get floor time in Denver, which is a huge head‑scratcher, but he's a top player.   He fits a perfect role for them. 
I think their needle changed once they made that trade, in my opinion.   Once they got him, they got a real presence and a big guy that can do some banging and get the pressure off guys like Tristan. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT