NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 3, 2015
Andrew Bogut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your thoughts on the first time two Aussies have faced each other in the NBA Finals? 
ANDREW BOGUT:   It's great.   It's great for Australia.   Obviously there is some Australian media here.   It's obviously a big event back home.   (Indiscernible) got some experience the last season (indiscernible) same team.   It will be a little different this year, but it's guaranteed an Aussie is going to get a ring.   So that's a good thing.

Q.   Have you spoken to Delly at all? 
ANDREW BOGUT:   No, we're not speaking until the end of The Finals, I think.   Keep it professional.   During the season and stuff we actually had some dinner I believe when we played there.   But this time around we'll be a bit more serious.

Q.   Do you feel it bothers him, all the Dirty Delly stuff? 
ANDREW BOGUT:   I don't think it bothers him too much.   He's a hard‑nosed player.   I don't think he's dirty.   He goes out and gives it all he's got.   I don't think it bothers him too much.   You're going to get labeled different things by media and by fans, and that's just a part of earning a paycheck, I guess.

Q.   (Indiscernible) after all the injury setbacks? 
ANDREW BOGUT:   It's good.   It's been a long road.   This is ultimately the goal for NBA player or any professional basketball player, to play at the highest level and win a championship. 
So hopefully we can finish that off and I'll answer that question at the end of it.

Q.   Is the excitement now building that you're in the stadium and training here? 
ANDREW BOGUT:   Yeah, we're practicing here.   It's an NBA rule that we have to practice here, so it's a little different than our regular routine.   But it's kind of like NCAA Tournament or the Olympics with the amount of media that's involved right now.   We're not used to this for sure.   None of our guys have been in The Finals.   So it's a whole different mindset.   We're going to make sure that we stay focused and we're ready to go tomorrow.

Q.   How do you prepare for someone like LeBron? 
ANDREW BOGUT:   Our coaches do a great job scouting.   We're going to have a bunch of different guys guarding him.   It's not going to be just one guy.   We'll be aware, come early and help our teammates out.   If we do that, we'll be okay.

Q.   What special things do you think Australians bring to the teams?   A lot said about the team‑first mentality of Australians. 
ANDREW BOGUT:   I'm not sure.   I think it's just something that we mature at an early age and playing for the team and not trying to be an individual.   You know, it's a good thing sometimes, and it's a bad thing sometimes.   Sometimes it's good to be selfish as a pro athlete in an aggressive sense.   For the most part I think we fit in with teams pretty well.   We play different roles, and I don't think we pout too much when it comes down to not getting minutes (indiscernible) or shots. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT