NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: ROCKETS v WARRIORS
May 20, 2015
Andrew Bogut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. (On what he will spend his All‑Defense bonus:)   
ANDREW BOGUT:   I don't know.   We'll see.   We'll invest it.   We'll get something decent, buy a nice muscle car.  
   
 Q.   You already did the watch, so you don't have to give the players anything.   
ANDREW BOGUT:   Yeah, I'll take them out to eat or something, go to Chipotle or something or get them a Jamba Juice.  
   
 Q.   What do you think that does for their psyche, having a 16‑point lead and not being able to close that game out?  
ANDREW BOGUT:   Hopefully a lot, but we didn't play well yesterday.   I played horribly, but we as a team, we came out with no energy and didn't really get things done the way we were supposed do in the first quarter, and we still had a lead at quarter time.   It's always a good feeling when you play like crap and win a game because you know that the next game if you can turn it up a little more, you have a chance at winning again.   
We fixed a few things at practice, and I think we'll adjust well.   
   
 Q.   How important was it for you personally to get that recommendation for All‑Defense?   
ANDREW BOGUT:   Actually it was really good, yeah.   You know, I'm kind of used to kind of always just missing out, playing in Milwaukee for so many years, but it's nice to be recognized.   I mean, I really take pride in my defense, and I think that's the main role on my team is to be a good defender, so to get recognized for it is good.   Hopefully the referees read the all‑defensive teams and get a few more calls tonight.   
   
 Q.   Do you care if Harden is driving left at all as part of the help in containing him?   
ANDREW BOGUT:   It's tough because when he goes right, we feel like he gets into his area much better and his shape, whereas going left he goes a bit more direct, so it's pick your poison.   But yesterday he went left three or four straight times and made every jumper.   
It's tough.   He's a great one‑on‑one player.   Klay couldn't have got anybody better on those shots that he'd made, and if they'd beat us with him making those type of shots, we're going to have to live with it.   
   
 Q.   With Draymond, you two guys have been in this together for a little while‑‑  
ANDREW BOGUT:   It's great.   Draymond and I obviously take a lot of hits down there, and I think we feed off each other defensively, so I couldn't have done it without him and vice versa, I think.   We have a great relationship defensively down there.   
   
 Q.   You've got a little sniffle?  
ANDREW BOGUT:   Yeah, more than a little.   Struggling a little bit, but I'll be all right.  
   
 Q.   Is it a cold?  
ANDREW BOGUT:   Yeah, a little worse, but I'll be all right.   
   
 Q.   Talking between you and Draymond on defense, as well, like Steph who plays on offense, you guys do a lot of unspoken stuff and so forth.   Have you ever had that kind of chemistry with anybody else before like that?  
ANDREW BOGUT:   Probably with Mbah a Moute.   In Milwaukee we had Mbah a Moute and Mbah a Moute was a lovely defender.   He didn't get recognized for it, but he was unbelievable, and we had the same relationship.   It was like if I went to help he knew where to be and vice versa.   We still talked it off, but we didn't have to.   It was almost, like you said, second nature, and I think that's what makes a good defensive team when you've got guys that can kind of react to each other just by knowing where they're going to be.   
   
 Q.   What did you think of Steph's fine?  
ANDREW BOGUT:   I just heard about it.   That's pretty crazy.   If they're setting a precedent with that kind of stuff, there's certain guys on certain teams that will get fined every game.   There's a couple of guys in the league that fall over on every three‑point shot.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT