NCAA MEN'S 3RD & 4TH ROUND REGIONALS: AUSTIN
March 25, 2005
Andrew Bogut
Ray Giacoletti
Marc Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
COACH GIACOLETTI:  Congratulations to Kentucky.  I thought they wore us down.  I am proud of our guys and the effort.  I thought we played them as good as we could tonight.  We limited our turnovers.  We got to the free throw line.  We wanted to try to get there ten times per half, we got there 28 times.  We held them to 63 points.  That has been a staple to our success throughout the season.  Our guys gave a great effort.  They can lay their heads down on the pillow tonight and feel no regret. 
 

Q.  Andrew, I assume you haven't faced two seven footers many times this year.  How hard was that to get position down low?  That's not even counting Randolph, the six-ten guy? 
 
ANDREW BOGUT:  It was pretty tough.  Obviously they banged me around.  I said to coach in the first half he was telling me you want to get looks.  I just didn't.  I couldn't knock a shot down.  I struggled to shoot all day.  I just couldn't knock them down.  I don't think it was anything special they done, it just wasn't my day shooting the basketball. 
 

Q.  Andrew, you seemed to get a little bit frustrated out there with the physical play.  How did you feel about the officiating? 
 
ANDREW BOGUT:  I had no problem with it.  Kentucky played a great game.  I had no problem with anybody but myself. 
 

Q.  Andrew, are you ready to say that this is your last college game or not at this point? 
 
ANDREW BOGUT:  I am going to go back and go to bed and wake up.  I am going to do that when I am totally ready.  I am not going to announce anything without talking to my family. 
 

Q.  How frustrating was it for you knowing this was your last game when you fouled out at the end and knowing you couldn't help? 
 
MARC JACKSON:  This year we had a great season.  You don't want it to end this way.  There is one winner in this tournament.  We competed and did the things we needed to.  Coach was saying we hit two of our goals that we have been doing at all of the games this year.  You know, obviously I was devastated.  It was one of those things you look back and you see the things that we have accomplished and it has been a great year. 
 

Q.  You had your worst free throw shooting of the year.  Was it tiredness, nervousness? 
 
MARC JACKSON:  I would say that it is a little fatigue.  For the most part.  
 
COACH GIACOLETTI:  I will take the blame.  Playing these guys too many minutes.  
 
MARC JACKSON:  I think we needed to focus a little bit more.  It was just one of those nights we didn't shoot very good.  
 

Q.  Ray, does Kentucky's depth, is it kind of like a catch 22?  You either go with your starters and ride them out as opposed to putting a guy in that you wouldn't normally play? 
 
COACH GIACOLETTI:  We are going to play the guys that got us here.  If I made a bad decision with playing them too many minutes we are going to live with that.  They do have great depth.  I have never seen a team that played 13 guys in 26 games in one season.  It is amazing that you can do that.   It is a decision we had to make and we went with it.  They wore us down a little bit.  I think if we hit some free throws it would have been different, but we didn't.  Kentucky wore us down.  They stepped up and made some plays and we didn't. 
 

Q.  I noticed you took your jacket off.  You were pretty animated.  How did you think the game was called with officiating?
 
COACH GIACOLETTI:  I was trying to fire them up.  I have no problems with the officiating.  That is the way it is at this level. 
 

Q.  Playing 13 guys obviously wears a team down defensively.  Offensively they got scoring from ten different guys.  How difficult is that? 
 
COACH GIACOLETTI:  You know, we played a lot tonight.  I don't know if people could recognize it we played bunch of box and one.  In all the tapes that we watched we wanted to try to stop Sparks.  When he was able to stretch the defense it made it one-on-one in the post.  For the post players, I thought our guys did a great job in stopping Sparks.  We bailed them out on the block, we got him to the bonus and the free throw line.  For the most part, especially early it did it's job with making them shoot perimeter jump shots. 
 

Q.  At some point when you saw your guys wearing down did you consider going deeper in your bench than you had earlier in the season? 
 
COACH GIACOLETTI:  I considered it.  I think our staff got a pretty good feel for how our bench is.  We were trying to play the game in ten four-minute segments.  Like I said, if we hit some free throws it is a little bit different at the end.  We have got to do it within three with Bogs shooting a free throw to get it to two.  I don't know what time that was.  You know, but that changes the game pressure on them.  But again, I don't have any regrets.  We did what we thought got us here, what we thought was going to help us get us over the hump with Kentucky. 
 

Q.  When they put Alleyne in the game, you seemed to alter Andrew's shots.  Can you talk about that? 
 
COACH GIACOLETTI:  He is long.  We tried to do some things.  Instead of taking Andrew away from the post -- either with the ball screen, zipper cut, kind of back bit from the back post.  We tried to alter and hopefully keep Alleyne from that. 
 

Q.  Do you feel like this was Andrew's last game? 
 
COACH GIACOLETTI:  Like Andrew said, he is going to sleep on it.  His mom got in last night.  It is the first college game she has seen him play.  We'll sit down and talk about it once we get to Salt Lake. 
 

Q.  What would your advice be to him? 
 
COACH GIACOLETTI:  I would hug him and wish him the best of luck if he is going to be a top three pick.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT