NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND ONE: CLIPPERS vs WARRIORS
April 24, 2019
Andrew Bogut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Clippers - 129, Warriors - 121   
ANDREW BOGUT: Everything seemed to go their way towards the end of the fourth quarter, deservedly so.  They impacted the game from the start and they deserved to win.   
 Q.  Why is Lou Williams so difficult to defend?  
ANDREW BOGUT: He's a great scorer, first and foremost, but he does a great job of drawing fouls and he does a great job getting to the free-throw line.  So we don't want to make any contact at all with him because he gets the call.  He does a great job of it, so we've got to be very careful with our hands and our body.   
And he's very crafty with drawing fouls.  So we have to be careful in that sense and keep playing through it and hopefully we get some of those calls for two of the best shooters in the league.  We're running off screens and getting belted every time they come up on them.   
 Q.  You kept them under wraps really well in L.A., the two games, but he hurt you here?  
ANDREW BOGUT: He's played well.  The bench, Patrick, him and Harrell, they work well together, put a lot of pressure on the defense.  We had to make some small adjustments, which we'll watch film tomorrow and see what we can do.   
But if we're going to come out with (indiscernible) energy like we did in the first half I think the result will be very similar.   
 Q.  Any confidence stemmed from the stretch where you were able to cut into the deficit?  
ANDREW BOGUT: Yeah, we turned it on.  We've got a wake-up call from them and we stepped up to the plate and we were ready to go.  But like I said, if we come out and just think we're going to roll over this team because they're an 8 seed, it doesn't work that way in the NBA playoffs.   
But I like the way we played in the second half.  We just gotta come out with that same mindset in the first half.  We've started poorly the last two or three games.  I think if we can start off a little bit better we'll be better shape.   
 Q.  Draymond got the T.  It looked like you tried to grab him, dance with him and keep him away from the official.  
ANDREW BOGUT: Well, yeah, he's an emotional guy.  Probably so, probably had a (indiscernible) because felt like we had a tough whistle all night.  But that's the reality of the way that the game went.  And I know Draymond was frustrated, just make sure he didn't get another one to add to his tally.   
He's an emotional guy, and it's an emotional game.  He was a little pissed off with the way things were going.  So it was more a sense of making sure he doesn't get thrown out because we need him out on the floor.   
He's our emotional leader.  We have scorers guys, we have guys who can get us a bucket and All-Stars, but I think once it comes to emotions and talk and grit and determination and all that kind of stuff, I think Draymond is number one on the list.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT