NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 12, 2016
Andrew Bogut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What does it mean for you guys to not have Draymond tomorrow night?  
ANDREW BOGUT: We have to adjust. It's a playoff series.They made a decision.  It was an interesting one.  We can probably talk about the decision for days. But, we've got to adjust and next man up.  That's kind of been the the story of our season, with different guys getting hurt and different guys used in different games throughout the Playoffs, we've always had guys step up.   
 Q.  Is there more expected from you in terms of minutes because Draymond's out?  
ANDREW BOGUT: It's going to be more expected of everybody.  Not one guy, our whole bench.  We'll obviously have everybody active.  Draymond's out.  I'll have to have a bigger role rebounding the ball, obviously, and McAdoo will probably find some minutes. Festus and Anderson and Brandon Rush might get some minutes. So we're in a situation that's not unique to us.  We've been in this position before, and we'll adjust.   
 Q.  Were you surprised by the suspension?  
ANDREW BOGUT: Of course.  I mean, considering the actions that happened early on in the series when there was a similar play with somebody else.  You know, but you knew after Game 4 it was going to be very likely with all the stuff coming out from their end, that's all their coaches and their manager have to do, try and get him out.   
 Q.  When did you find out?  
ANDREW BOGUT: We found out halfway through practice.   
 Q.  Halfway through practice?  
ANDREW BOGUT: Yep.   
 Q.  How does that change the mindset of the team?  
ANDREW BOGUT: Well, we're missing an All-Star.  We're missing a guy who is our voice, both physically and emotionally.  And we obviously don't want to be missing an All-Star going into a playoff series, let alone a Finals series.   
So we'll make adjustments.  We're still on our home floor with our home fans.  And it's not the end of the world for us.  We'll come out to play as hard as we can.  We're trying to win a game.  We're not trying to wait for Draymond to come back in Game 6.   
 Q.  As a player, how do you understand what NBA discipline is?  
ANDREW BOGUT: You don't.  There's no rhyme or reason to it.  I've been in the same situation.  I've been suspended before.  It's almost like a lottery system for the draft.  They just pull out a ping-pong ball and make a decision.   
 Q.  Does it surprise you?  
ANDREW BOGUT: It doesn't surprise me, no.  You've got to make adjustments on the fly, obviously, at this point not to have Draymond.  But I'm not surprised.  This is my 11th year in the league, and I've seen more things than you'd like to know.  So it will be in my book when I'm done, so you should buy that book.   
 Q.  Many say that you and Draymond kind of set the tone on defense for this team.  Any extra load that you feel like you're going to have to carry in the game?  
ANDREW BOGUT: Look, I need to step up.  I didn't play great last game but we got the win.  But I think it's going to be everybody.  It's next man up.  If you get in for one minute or 20 minutes or 40 minutes, it's that next-man-up mentality and you have to come out and have an impact.  We'll have a bunch of different guys playing.  Coach Kerr's not afraid to play guys.  We saw that with McAdoo.  He hasn't played -- hasn't suited up in three games and all of a sudden he's playing big minutes for us and making contributions.  That's the confidence we have in each other and our team.   
 Q.  Given how valuable the emotional leader standpoint is coming from a guy like that, do you have another one on this team?  
ANDREW BOGUT: We'll be okay.  Look, Draymond's obviously our physical and vocal leader, but we know what we have to do.  If we need someone to bark at us and get us motivated for Game 5 of the NBA Finals series with a chance to win a ring, you probably should not be playing tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT