NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 7, 2016
Andrew Bogut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about the Olympics, it seems like it's a big deal in your life.  So Steph's not going to play.  What is your reaction to that?  Is that good for the team and him, and what's it like to have to play all summer through the Olympics?
ANDREW BOGUT: Well, Steph's banged up a little bit with carrying that knee thing.  He's feeling better, but obviously he needs to rest that in the offseason.  So he can rest from the injury that he had, and obviously it's been two long seasons for us in a row where we're playing deep into the season, and you can't fault anyone for wanting to rest.  But obviously I'm committed to the team.
Q. You're going to play?
ANDREW BOGUT: Yeah, hopefully if we can beat some of the Zika rumors.
Q. Are you worried about it?
ANDREW BOGUT: A little bit.  I'd be lying to say I wasn't.  Just being bitten by a mosquito and then come down with something is a pretty scary prospect.  I've had my yellow fever shot already, which is a battle in itself.  And then you've got malaria and you've got Zika.  So being able to get that from an insect is pretty scary stuff.  So you've got to be smart.
Q. (Indiscernible).
ANDREW BOGUT: The yellow fever shot has a rare, minute chance of side effects of really messing you up.  So I kind of didn't want to do it, because I don't do injections.  I don't do flu shots.  (Indiscernible).
Q. As a whole, there is the word that some of you guys might be going to the Olympics and some of you might be tired going into next year.
ANDREW BOGUT: I'm not thinking about next year.  My goal right now is to try to win this championship and be part of this great ride.  You've got to refocus on the Olympics, and hopefully Coach Kerr will give us until October (Indiscernible).
Q. Of the Zika concerns, have you sought out doctors or researched it?
ANDREW BOGUT: Well, yeah, there is nothing you can do.  All you can do is read the articles.  The issue is the Olympic Committee and the IOC are obviously saying everything's fine.  No [expletive].  They want you to go.  You know, so I take it with a grain of salt what they're putting out.  But there are people in the World Health Organization and other high, prominent doctors around the world that are raising concerns.  So I'm reading into those, and might have to buy a hazmat outfit to arrive, who knows.
But, look, if it gets serious, there is going to be a conversation.  I don't think it's overly serious but there are some concerns.  Like I said, if you want to go somewhere and be bitten by a mosquito and come down with something, that's not something you want to risk.
Q. Pau Gasol dropped out for that reason.
ANDREW BOGUT: Yeah, I'm not sure that's why he's dropping out.  As of right now, I'm 100% committed and reading news articles and whatever I can to get more information about it and follow it closely.  Like I said, I'd be lying to say I wasn't concerned about it, but as of now I'm going.
Q. Speaking of your health, you joked with us that you'll tell us the true story of how you're feeling after the series back in San Francisco.  Are you able to give us a percentage or what percentage do you put on it?
ANDREW BOGUT: No.
Q. Given the series that you've had, is it only natural to feel some sense of redemption after last year?
ANDREW BOGUT: Oh, yeah.  Long way to go.  We've obviously up 2-0 in this series, but we've still got a long way to go in the series.
Q. Did you come into this series with a different kind of mindset from last year?
ANDREW BOGUT: Just contribute when I'm out there.  I think when I was out there I wasn't aggressive or kind of making my presence known out there.  Whereas whether it was 10 minutes or 30 minutes, just being out there, and hitting guys, banging guys around, blocking shots, being physical, taking hard fouls, rebounding, doing all those things.  So that's something I'll try to remember to do.
Q. You really don't have the luxury of easing into a game, do you?  You've got to get out and bust it from the start?
ANDREW BOGUT: Oh, no doubt, yeah.  There's not a lot of minutes for five-men in this series with myself and Andy.  There's probably about 20 minutes to play because they go small a lot and so do we.  So whenever one of us is out there, we've got to play as hard as we can.  There may be a game where maybe Andy or Festus come in and do a better job and get minutes. And I'm fine with it. But it's just a matter of making sure when I'm out there, I know I can come out of the game saying, I laid it all out there, played as hard as I could, and we made a change or adjustment and hopefully we'll get the win.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT