NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 1, 2016
Andrew Bogut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So, back again, Cleveland, excited for this?
ANDREW BOGUT: Yeah, it will be an exciting series.  It's what everyone wanted, to have the rematch.  They're playing very good basketball.  We had to fight our way here.  It's going to be an exciting series.
Q. Little different for you since [Timofey] Mozgov seems relegated to the bench?
ANDREW BOGUT: Yeah, I anticipate this being a small-ball series, but that's fine.  I'll have my spots in the series where I come out and play a role.  But predominantly we feel like they go small, almost smaller than us now, with Channing [Frye], Kevin Love.  It's probably going to be a very similar series in that sense as it was last season.
Q. You were just talking about this being the rematch everyone wanted.
ANDREW BOGUT: I mean in the sense of the media and there is a lot of story line around them being banged up last season.  It's a good story to have a rematch for you guys.  For us, it wouldn't really matter who it was.
Q. Any part of you guys that said you wanted to have them full strength?  You can't replay last year, but it sort of closes a chapter in a sense?
ANDREW BOGUT: I don't really care.  The ring doesn't have an asterisk on it.  We had guys banged up throughout different series this season -- Portland and Houston, Steph [Curry] was banged up.  So these things happen.  You have to adjust.  We're not coming in saying we have to really prove ourselves now.  We did what we did last season and that's over.  This is a new team on both sides of the ball, and we're going to try to win the series.
Q. Have you spoken to [Matthew Dellavedova] at all in the lead-up?
ANDREW BOGUT: No.
Q. How special is it for Australian basketball to have two Aussies in the final?
ANDREW BOGUT: It's been great.  Aussies have been in The Finals I think four out of the last five years.  So it's great for the game back home.  To have us in the biggest possible event in the world, it's pretty special.
Q. Do you expect to come in contact with your mate during the game?
ANDREW BOGUT: Who is that?
Q. Delly.
ANDREW BOGUT: Yeah, hopefully when I'm screening him.  Other than that, no.  We're archenemies right now.  We'll see enough of each other in about three or four weeks [for Olympic training].  We have a goal, he has a goal, they have a goal.  Be professional.
Q. Is it any different this year from last year, just knowing what you know no?
ANDREW BOGUT: Maybe a little bit.  Just being prepared to go small at times.  Different guys playing different amounts of minutes.  Guys will be playing out of position a lot.  It's one of those series with a lot of cross-matches and different lineups.  They do a good job of changing things up as well.
Q. A lot has been made of the comeback.  What was it like in the locker room going into Game 5?
ANDREW BOGUT: We knew Game 5 was there for the taking.  It was at Oracle.  We knew if we could just get to Game 6, the pressure would start to swing back toward them.  It felt like they had control of three and a half quarters in OKC, and then we took it over with half a quarter left.
We ended up getting it done.  The momentum changed.  That's why these seven-game series in the NBA are a beast.  People don't realize how many swings there can be in a series.
Q. Do you feel like you're in form with your shooting accuracy?
ANDREW BOGUT: I don't shoot a lot, so it doesn't really affect me too much.  If we're relying on me to be in form shooting-wise, we're in some trouble.  We'll make sure that Steph and Klay [Thompson] are shooting the ball well, and we'll be okay.  But this series I'm going to make sure to be a presence defensively, rebound the ball and try to keep Tristan Thompson off of offensive rebounds.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT