NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v WARRIORS
May 20, 2016
Andrew Bogut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Any rules for guarding [Andre] Roberson?  You're not guarding him but you're kind of paying attention to him.  What are the rules?
ANDREW BOGUT: I'm roving and moving around and trying to cut off the paint.  I guess we'll live with him if he makes five or six threes and we win, then we'll live with it.
Q. Do you think you'll stick with him if at home he gets on a run?
ANDREW BOGUT: Yeah, we'd rather have him shooting the ball than Durant or Westbrook.
Q. Do you like that position?
ANDREW BOGUT: I don't mind it.  I mean, it frees me up to grab balls.  A lot of times I end up on Adams late in the shot clock anyway because they switch him out a lot of things.  I guess with Adams being a really good pick-and-roll player, it puts Draymond in the pick-and-roll.  He's much more capable of guarding Durant and Westbrook out on the perimeter if we need to switch it, so I think it helps.  It helps the team.
Q. I can't remember much, have you guys done that much since the Memphis series last year?
ANDREW BOGUT: We did it to Miami against Winslow.  Every now and then, we'll do it.  It's not something that we want to do, but if the matchups call for that, I think it just throws them out of balance a little bit and that's kind of what we want.
Q. Other than them just having a good team for the last five or six years, what makes Oklahoma City a tough place to play?
ANDREW BOGUT: It's loud, great crowd, they support their basketball.  It's still a relatively fresh franchise.  They haven't been around that long.  What, eight years maybe, something like that.  So fans support them well.  They obviously feel more comfortable playing at home.
Q. Like a college atmosphere?
ANDREW BOGUT: Yeah, definitely.  Definitely, it's as tough as Oracle.
Q. [on the regular season matchup in OKC on Feb. 27]
ANDREW BOGUT: I don't think about that.  It's a playoff series and we're not really thinking about that, but that was a huge play for us.  Took the game over in the fourth quarter, and had to pull up a half-court three which looked like anyone else's pull-up free throw line jumper and knocked it down.
Q. Are you tired of people thinking you and Steve Adams are from the same country?
ANDREW BOGUT: Oh, it's just a nuance of living in America.  You have to deal with those kind of questions on a daily basis.  People don't know too much about Australia and New Zealand, so you have to kind of give people a bit of a geography lesson.
Q. He does say mate a lot?
ANDREW BOGUT: Well, New Zealanders say mate a lot in general.  That's interesting.  The question I got the other day was one of the sillier ones I'd ever heard, but you get that when it comes to international relations.  They don't teach geography outside of America in America, I don't think.
Q. Has he not played against you on an international team?
ANDREW BOGUT: No, I never played against him.  He's way younger than me, I think.  What is he, 22?
Q. He hasn't done any of the national?
ANDREW BOGUT: No, he's not played for his National Team, and he's not playing this off-season either.  So, yeah, never played against him.
Q. Steph probably answered it in the third quarter, but how did he look today with his elbow and everything?
ANDREW BOGUT: I don't comment about his injuries.  If it's something you have to ask him.  But Steph looked like Steph.  He's doing everything the same.
Q. Coach Kerr said that your leg is fine.  Is that just because that's what you told him to say at this point or are you feeling decent?
ANDREW BOGUT: No, it's fine.  It's good.  Good to go.
Q. (No Microphone)?
ANDREW BOGUT: Did I get to?  No, I wanted to.  I was going to go out after warm-ups but trying to stay focused.  But I'm a huge fan of Larry David, and huge Seinfeld fan and huge Curb Your Enthusiasm fan.
Q. What is your favorite Seinfeld episode?
ANDREW BOGUT: My favorite Seinfeld episode?  Probably the cable.  Curb Your Enthusiasm is a lot like me in that show.  That's why I like it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT