OKLAHOMA CITY THUNDER MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 24, 2018
Timothe Luwawu-Cabarrot
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Timothe, you got traded here in the summer; what were your immediate thoughts on the trade, and you've had some time to process it.  Where do you see you fitting in on this roster?
TIMOTHE LUWAWU-CABARROT: I think it's a great opportunity for me and for the team, great opportunities to learn as a player and as a man.  You know, I've been here just one team, it's my first team as a foreign player.  It's always good to learn from other places, other cities, other people, and experience more coaches, more people.  I saw that as an opportunity, and an opportunity also to build something here and bring everything I can bring.
Q. Your few years in Philly, when you looked at the Thunder before you got here, what were your thoughts about the teammates you were playing against and also the organization as a whole?  Did you know much about them?
TIMOTHE LUWAWU-CABARROT: About Oklahoma?
Q. About Oklahoma but the Thunder in particular.
TIMOTHE LUWAWU-CABARROT: Didn't know much, but maybe all the guys that was here for a long time, Nick Collison, Russ, Steven, Andre.  I've always heard good things about the organization, about the city and the fans.  That's the only thing I knew about the city and about the Thunder before.  Yep.
Q. When you watch film -- I asked Nerlens this question.  When you watch film of last season with the Thunder, are there things that you see that maybe the Thunder were lacking last season, specifically maybe with their bench unit, that you look at and you say, I can help with that, that's something I'm excited to come in and maybe help fill, or are you just kind of waiting for those things to come?
TIMOTHE LUWAWU-CABARROT: I think the biggest thing that the team did last year was running, especially with Russ, running the whole game and like being intense the whole game, and that's something I can bring and something that I know I have in me, and I can also bring my thing in it.  So that's something I like, to run and just to play intense, and also play defense, like bring that thing into the team, into the bench and into the team.  Yeah, that's something I saw last year and something I'm looking forward this year.
Q. You've got a pretty good reputation for defense.  How do you see yourself in terms of your defense and the level that you can get to as a defender on the wing in this league?
TIMOTHE LUWAWU-CABARROT: As good as it can get.  I think in this team they have pretty good players on defense, like Paul George and Andre, in this particular aspect of the game.  So I can't wait to learn from them and just getting better.  I know I have that and I know I can be an elite defender in this league, and I can help the team really well in this aspect.  I'm looking forward to learning from these guys.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT