NBA DRAFT 2016
June 23, 2016
Timothe Luwawu-Cabarrot
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Could you please start with an opening statement, feelings about what's happened today so far?   
TIMOTHE LUWAWU-CABARROT: So far?  It just may be the greatest moment in my life, so I'm just enjoying the moment.  It's very nice for me to be drafted, and to be drafted in Philadelphia.  I heard the city is beautiful, and I'm just happy, so it's cool.   
 Q.  You're 21 years old, you've been through a lot in your short life.  How do you think that moving from France to Serbia, playing with the team that you played with, prepared you for the NBA?  
TIMOTHE LUWAWU-CABARROT: Preparing for me the NBA?  I think it was the best transition for me to go to Serbia for a lot of reasons:  First (indiscernible), the minutes, the show.  I improve a lot over there.  There's a lot of workout, a lot of preparation for it, and I think it was the best transition for me, and that's prepared me for it.   
 Q.  What sort of support system did the team that you play for provide you and the other young players?  How would you describe it?  
TIMOTHE LUWAWU-CABARROT: Oh, there was a lot of players on this team, young players.  Yeah, it was a young team, and that's why there's a lot of responsibilities.  You need to be every time focused 100 percent and need to improve in your head.  You need to change your mind.  You are not the young guy of the team, and you need to play as veteran.   
 Q.  You increased your shooting percentage from long range quite a bit in the last year.  Was it just practice?  Did something click for you?  Did you change your strategy at all?  
TIMOTHE LUWAWU-CABARROT: Only practice.  I think for me shot ability is only about work, and it's just improving.  I think I can improve again and again, and it's going in the right way right now, so I'm going to keep working.   
 Q.  Can you talk about following in the tradition of the French influx of players that are coming into the NBA?  You're following other great French players such as Parker, Boris Diaw.  Can you speak about that?  
TIMOTHE LUWAWU-CABARROT: Yeah, I've spoken briefly with Tony Parker and Boris Diaw about two years ago.  Tony Parker just advised me to stay the same, be myself, and just play my game because if I'm like Boris, they like my game and don't change for something.  We just talk about that, but I guess we're going to talk a lot again for some advice.   
 Q.  Are your current plans to be in Philadelphia in the fall and play in the NBA or go back to Serbia and play there?  
TIMOTHE LUWAWU-CABARROT: I'm ready to play.  Like I said just before, I improved this year, and I just want to show everybody that I can play, and more now than ever.   
 Q.  The biggest sport in France is obviously fútbol.  What led you to playing basketball and pursuing a career in that instead of maybe fútbol?  
TIMOTHE LUWAWU-CABARROT: I tried to play soccer, but I wasn't good, so I just played basketball ahead of that.  So that's it.   
 Q.  The pace that your team in Serbia played was pretty fast paced.  The Colangelos who run the Sixers like to play a wide-open style and so does Brett Brown.  Are you familiar with that and do you think it suits you, the fast-paced style of play?  
TIMOTHE LUWAWU-CABARROT: Yeah, it was only young players.  We were running every week for that kind of game.  We just play like we should play, like running, defensive pressure, full court and all that stuff because we are young and we can do it, so yeah.   
 Q.  Do you think that a lot of teams maybe missed out on you, maybe overlooked you?  
TIMOTHE LUWAWU-CABARROT: If they miss me?   
 Q.  Missed out on you, that maybe you should have gone earlier in the draft?  
TIMOTHE LUWAWU-CABARROT: Oh, we're going to see during the summer leagues.  That's it.  That's what I want to see.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT