THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 22, 2007
Jon Bevan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  You finished the front looking fit, but soaked, absolutely soaked.  You finished in 1-over par for your round, 13-over overall.  Where does that rank in rounds of golf you've played?   
 JON BEVAN:  That's up there.  I enjoyed it.  Yesterday I was very disappointed.  I have to say, the hat on back-to-front is just to stop the dripping in my eyes when I'm putting, although my kids will think it looks quite smart.   
 We had a funny day yesterday.  I felt pretty bad, pretty down.  But with everything that goes on elsewhere, things like Lewis Hamilton's crash, and stuff like this, and sat with friends.  There was nowhere else we wanted to be today.   
  
  Q.  I think it's right to put your achievement in perspective, because this week we've been talking to the likes of Tiger Woods and Sergio Garcia.  For you playing in an Open Championship, you come from Wessex in Weymouth; you're a club pro down there.   
 JON BEVAN:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  What does it mean to play in the greatest championship of all?   
 JON BEVAN:  It means everything.  This is where I started playing golf.  It's my third one now.  It's my first cut, second time I played Carnoustie.  The golf course is awesome, absolutely awesome brilliant.  It's too big for me.   
 But the putter was working today.  My caddie was fantastic.  I don't know how he managed to keep as dry as he did.   
  
  Q.  You came through qualifying, of course, but tell us about the sacrifices you've made to keep your golf going.   
 JON BEVAN:  A lot of personal sacrifices, but I have my family and I have my friends.  But it's all for this.  I love The Open Championship, this is it.   
  
  Q.  You had to part company from your wife and your five kids because she gave you an ultimatum?   
 JON BEVAN:  That isn't right.   
  
  Q.  What were the circumstances of that one?   
 JON BEVAN:  We just separated, still in contact, still see the kids a lot.  My kids, fortunately, are in Spain having a holiday with their grandparents.  No, we're fine.   
  
  Q.  It's a hard life.  It's not the glamour of the top professional who's earning millions every year and having this supplied and that supplied.  It is very different, isn't it?   
 JON BEVAN:  Yes, but this is what it's all about, anybody that's watched me play this week that's thinking about having a go.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT