TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 21, 2011
Seth Doege
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   Seth, could you talk about how much of an impact Darrin Moore, having him in the game, made for you and the team?   
SETH DOEGE:   Yeah, he definitely seemed like his old self last Saturday.   It's one of those things where I really trusted him going up and getting the football.   I could put it where he could go make a play on it and he did a couple of times.   That was encouraging to see because he made a big impact in that football game.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
SETH DOEGE:   What's that?   
   
 Q.   Kind of a one‑game season now for the bowl game?   
SETH DOEGE:   Oh, yeah, for sure.   We're going to do everything we can to be prepared, excited.   Whatever we need to do to figure out how to win this game, we'll do it.   I think the team realizes that, and I think we're excited about it.   I think that we'll have a great week of practice.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the young guns that played on Saturday (Inaudible)?  
SETH DOEGE:   They definitely stepped up.   They had to grow up early, and they did.   They've stepped up and they've made plays when plays needed to be made.   They've done a really good job just being true freshmen.   
I started as a red shirt freshman, and I remember thinking the game was really fast, and maybe not being ready.   Those guys didn't have a choice.   They stepped up and they keep doing a great job for this team.  
   
 Q.   What did you think of that Baylor game on Saturday?   Did you get a chance to see the end of it?   
SETH DOEGE:   Yeah, me and Torres and Zou and Carona were sitting in our living room.   We ended up watching it.   It was a great play. RG-III kind of making something out of nothing and leading his team down there in scoring.   
We know what we're in for.   We know they're a great football team.   We're going to have to bring everything we've got.   We're a great football team too.   It kind of showed last Saturday because we were in control of that game the entire time.   It's just one of those things we need to have a great week and preparation and go out there and give it our best shot.  
   
 Q.   Do you have a relationship with (Indiscernible)?   
SETH DOEGE:   I've never really talked to him or anything.   I remember watching him on film in high school a little bit because one of the teams that Frenship played him the week before, and I was hurt, so I'd rather watch film than do anything else.   So I watched him a little bit.   
I know he's an unbelievable athlete.   He's done a really good job for them this year.   So that will be a challenge for us to stop him, and it will be a challenge for us to match him on offense.  
   
 Q.   This is the kind of quarterback that can really cause big grief.   Do you know how they're feeling about facing another very mobile quarterback?   
SETH DOEGE:   I know the guys on defense, I don't know.   I don't sit in the film room with them.   I don't know their responsibilities or anything like that.   But I think they welcome the challenge.   I don't think they're scared at all.   I think they know, and I think they respect him.   Because of what he's done, you need to respect him.   
They take it as a challenge and they're going to practice hard like they did last week.   They had a really good week of practice and try to figure out how to contain him and force some turnovers.   I think they'll do a good job.  
   
 Q.   Do you think they'll put a spy on him?  
SETH DOEGE:   They'll do something.   He's super fast when he gets out of the pocket.   That's when he makes plays.   That's something that they'll have to do to contain him.   I don't know exactly what they'll do, but they'll have something.   Coach Glasgow's a great coach and Coach Tuberville, and they'll figure it out.  
   
 Q.   Speaking about injuries going through the season?   
SETH DOEGE:   Yeah, that's just part of the game.   People go down and people have to step up.   That's part of Division I football is there's not a huge dropoff, and there shouldn't be.   Especially if you want to be a good football team because guys get injured all the time.   
But I hate it for the guys that have because all the work we put in, and all the stuff we have to go through for 12 guaranteed games, and they get hurt and don't get the 12 that were guaranteed.   I feel bad for those guys.   At the same time, I feel like we've had a lot of guys step up and fill those roles.  
   
 Q.   Does it feel good yesterday, today, and the day after just knowing that you guys competed and were competitive on Saturday?   
SETH DOEGE:   Yeah, but it does sting though to know that you're eight yards away from turning things around being bowl eligible.   That hurts, but at the same time we know we went out and played hard.   But there are things we need to correct and try to improve on for this next week, so we don't make the same mistake versus Baylor.  
   
 Q.   After you looked at it on tape, that last play, did you see anything that you could have done differently?   
SETH DOEGE:   I don't want to second guess myself, because my pre‑snap read and what I did to go to my check down was all correct.   So I've tried not to second guess myself.   It's hard not to watch the film and say maybe if I hadn't thrown the route, I would have moved over the defensive linemen, and it wouldn't have gotten tipped.   
But in the heat of the game, I was just trying to make a play.   I didn't know at the time when I threw it.   Nothing went through my mind that I was going to get tipped.   When I threw it, it went through my mind that Crawford's open.   He's going to walk through the end zone.   I'm not going to make any excuses.   
The ball being tipped is kind of an excuse.   So to me these last couple of days all I could think about was maybe if I would have moved a little bit right, it wouldn't have gotten tipped.  
   
 Q.   Because there is so much riding on this game, the difference between sitting at home for a month or practicing.   Is there any danger of putting too much pressure on yourself?   
SETH DOEGE:   No, I don't really feel that.   You would think that because it's our last game and it's a one‑game season.   If we don't win, it will be our last game.   But the feeling I get from this team is we're excited to play again.   There is no added pressure.   
The thing is we have a goal in mind, and that is to win and be bowl eligible, and that's all that matters.   That's been the goal ever since Texas State.   So nothing's changed, and there's no added pressure.  
   
 Q.   What has surprised you the most about this season for you personally about being the starting quarterback?   This is your first year and what you've had to go through?   
SETH DOEGE:   You said what's changed?   
   
 Q.   What surprised you the most, if anything?   
SETH DOEGE:   The season didn't turn out as what I expected it to be.   I knew we were going football team, so I knew we had a chance every time we stepped on the field to compete and beat anyone.   But I also knew we could be, if we didn't show up to play, we could be beaten by anyone too.   
So my expectations for the team and for myself are a bit higher than what they are right now.   At the same time we're still in position to be a bowl eligible team and make a bowl and finish this season strong on a good note.  
   
 Q.   How much have you learned individually?   You've had so much success early, but still your first year starting?   
SETH DOEGE:   I've learned a lot of not turning the ball over in critical downs or critical plays in the game and things like that.   It's just stuff I watched film and tried to learn from and improve.   Can't take it for granted.   
You're only guaranteed 12 games and it's a lot of stuff to go through in the off‑season and the summer, fall camp.   It's just a lot of work for 12 games.   So I've learned that nothing else matters but going out there, being prepared and having fun playing a game and enjoying it with your teammates.   That's what I've learned.   Kind of not listening to the outside and understanding the reason you play this game.  
   
 Q.   Were there criticisms from the outside?   
SETH DOEGE:   Oh, yeah.   Think about it.   There's never been a Tech quarterback that hasn't had that.   That's kind of part of the job.   You get all the glory when you win, and all the blame when you lose.   I knew that coming in.   
But at the same time, it's something you learn from.   You get better at accepting and moving on from it.  
   
 Q.   Kind of seeing the season and going through what you've gone through, does it make you feel like next year there is more excitement for you and knowing what you have to do in order to get to that next level that kind of leaves you wanting more?   
SETH DOEGE:   To be honest with you, I haven't thought about the off‑season because I'm not in any hurry to get there.   I want to win this game so bad, and I think the rest of the team does.   I think our goal of being in a bowl is still out there.   
So that's the only thought I have from when I wake up until I go to bed every day.   It's just on Baylor and beating Baylor.   So I haven't really thought about next year at all to be honest with you.  
   
 Q.   In addition to playing another game, it also gives you a lot more practices.   Is that beneficial going forward to next year?   If you don't have that, how much does that really hurt your team?   
SETH DOEGE:   It's hard to say, I think it does benefit the team because every time you go to practice, you practice to get better.   So I do think teams get better when they do go to bowl games.   But it's hard to say if it would really hurt us if we haven't, because we have such a good off‑season program.   I don't think it would matter.   I think we would get better.   But at the same time, if we didn't have practices, it wouldn't hurt us that much.  
   
 Q.   Talk about losing DeAndre.   
SETH DOEGE:   He was really working hard.   Making plays, doing everything we expect him to do.   I hated to see him go down.   I hate to see anybody go down on our team especially because of a knee injury.   Because I've been there, and I know what he's going through.   
I think Kenny Williams stepped up and did a good job, and Crawford played really well too.   So that's the thing.   Like I said, when guys go down, there are guys that have to step up and fill that void.   I think Kenny will, and hopefully we'll have Crawford back.   If not, we'll find somebody else to make plays.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible) (Asking about Alex Torres.)   
SETH DOEGE:   I talked to him.   I told him you don't know anything until you get your scan back.   Pray for the best, and understand if it comes out the worst, it's going to be okay.   You don't have cancer.   You have an ACL tear.   You'll rehab it and be back.   
I talked about how I've enjoyed playing with him and enjoyed being around him and him being a leader.   He's still going to be a leader.   He's very vocal.   He'll be at every meeting, every practice, every, you know, when we travel, he'll be there.   That's just the type of guy he is.   
I hope for the best in the scan, and I hope it's not as bad as it seems.   I hate it for him.   But we have guys that can step up and play inside.   Like you said, Darrin's back so the outside is kind of taken care of, and we have guys that will step up and play inside and do a good job.   
Knowing Alex, he'll battle and he'll be back.   It will be like it never happened.   
   
 Q.   Baylor's coming off a big win.   When you guys beat Oklahoma, how tough was it for you guys to get ready and are you seeing parallels there?   
SETH DOEGE:   Yeah, I mean, I remember after we beat Oklahoma you try to let it go, but everybody's asking you questions, everybody's congratulating you, which is good because we played a really good game.   But you try to get over it, and the coaches were harping about getting over it.   It's just a weird thing.   
At the time I thought we were over it.   But we showed up in the game, and it showed that we weren't ready to play yet.   So I don't know.   I'm sure Baylor will be ready to play.   They haven't beaten us in a long time, and I feel like you have to respect us because of some of the games we have played.   So I'm sure they'll be ready to play.  
   
 Q.   Talk about playing in Cowboy Stadium, what that's going to be like?   
SETH DOEGE:   When we played Baylor there, I guess Potts' junior year, it was exciting even though just being on the sideline knowing you weren't really going to play because it's such a really cool stadium, kind of feels professional.   It's just one of those things that as a kid you look forward to playing in stadiums like that.   I think the entire team is excited about doing it.  
   
 Q.   Thoughts on the Jumbotron?   
SETH DOEGE:   It's super big.   It's hard not to watch the game.   You're sitting on the field and you're looking up and your neck starts hurting.   It's like why am I watching the screen when the football field and the football game is right in front of me?   It's a huge screen.   I don't know.   It's pretty cool.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT