TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 14, 2011
Seth Doege
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  Q. Seth, how was yesterday in your team meetings, and what did you guys talk about to try to get this turned around?   
 SETH DOEGE: It was a positive meeting. There wasn't a whole lot of talking. It was kind of one of those things where it is what it is. It wasn't the team that we are that showed up.   
 We watched some things and made some corrections. It was one of those things where you just let that one go. We have two great opportunities left, so that's what we're going to focus on rather than what kind of performance we put on last Saturday.  
  
  Q. What's been the difference from the Oklahoma game and these past three games?   
 SETH DOEGE: We're still trying to figure that out ourselves. That's what we're trying to get back to. We feel like we're the same team. It's just one of those things. In Iowa State, we kind of weren't ready to play.   
 Then Texas, offensively, we played pretty well, and then defensively we had some work to do, and Oklahoma State was both sides of the ball really didn't take care of business.   
 We're trying to figure that out because we feel like we're a good team, and we feel like we can get back to that team that beat Oklahoma, and have a really good chance of winning these next two games.  
  
  Q. Is it hard for you individually to have confidence just after week-in and week-out?   
 SETH DOEGE: There is no reason for me not to have confidence just because I have great players around me. I think last week or this last Saturday we got down early. I tried to press and make too much happen. Some throws and things didn't go my way, and I started to lose a little bit of confidence.   
 But you can't do that as a quarterback, especially with this offense when everybody else is looking up to you to make sure that you believe in what you're doing and then the other guys will believe.   
 The offense and everything will start to click. It's one of those things where everything kind of revolves around the quarterback, and confidence can't ever be an issue.  
  
  Q. Do you feel that if you do make a mistake that it will be more costly with the way the defense has struggled and special teams?   
 SETH DOEGE: I think that was a problem this last week was I felt like I couldn't make a mistake, and that's why maybe I performed so poorly. But I can't worry about whatever happens. I need to worry about one play.   
 If we throw the ball so many times a game, the worst thing I do is throw an interception, that's fine. I just need to go out there and compete and play my game and not worry about how many points they have on the board or what other things are going wrong.   
 It really depends on me to show confidence and be poised throughout the game and not worry about anything so we can continually move and score points.  
  
  Q. Tommy said after the game that these next two games will really show what the team is made of. Is there something that you all are focusing on individually or as a team that can remind you of how well you played at Oklahoma?   
 SETH DOEGE: We all need to realize how good we really are, I think, that's just maybe we should go back and watch some of the games that we played offensively. Over the first seven games we were the Top 5 in the nation offensively.   
 We're a good football team. I think it's just one of those things where each individual needs to look inside and see we're great players. We have some talent here, and we need to believe in what we can do and believe in our coaches and go out there and execute.   
 I think the mentality has been off a little bit lately like I hope something goes right. Instead of saying, we're going to go battle and we're going to do what we do and what we practiced on and have confidence in that and go put on a show.  
  
  Q. I know you work with the players that you have, but are we seeing over these last three, four, five games, how important Eric Stephens was to you and the offense?   
 SETH DOEGE: He's definitely one of our best players. But at the same time, you can't ever worry about who you don't have. So it's one of those things where you miss him just because he was so effective and so productive. He was a great leader and a great friend. But at the same time, the last thing you want to do is think about who you don't have.   
 We still have some great running backs, and the running game hasn't been great, but it's not always the running back's fault either. I think they're well capable of making a lot of plays. I think you've seen DeAndre Washington really come along lately, and he's made some big plays for us. He's going to keep getting better, and he's going to be more productive each and every week.  
  
  Q. How much have you learned about yourself in these past few weeks?   
 SETH DOEGE: Oh, shoot. One thing is the worst thing losing a football game is not the worst thing in the world. There are a lot worse things that could happen to you. But at the same time, this means a lot to me.   
 I believe in this team. I think we're going to bounce back. I know a whole lot of people don't have a lot of faith in this team and have kind of given up. But in this room, in this meeting room when we're all in here, the belief is still strong that we can win out and make a Bowl game and end this thing in the right way and send these seniors out on the right note.  
  
  Q. There's been talk of not showing a lot of emotion. Is that misinterpreted by fans and by us in terms of somebody not turning over the water cooler or something along those lines to show that emotion? Is it different than what we're actually seeing?   
 SETH DOEGE: There is plenty of emotion. Last Saturday it was hard to stay emotionally excited when you're kind of getting beat like that. You know, especially when you expected so much of a better outcome for yourselves. Then something like that happens, and it kind of took some of the emotion out of it.   
 I know it wasn't fun for anybody. We still have a very excited football team. That is the thing. I feel like the guys are excited about these -- especially Missouri. We're excited about going up there. We're excited about practice. We're excited about taking it one day at a time and getting better and getting back to where we were before this three-game struggle.  
  
  Q. Does Missouri's defense worry you? They were able to hold Texas to just five points on Saturday?   
 SETH DOEGE: No, I'm sure they're a great defense. I haven't really watched film on them yet. I do that after this. I feel like what we need to do is not worry about too much of them and start focusing on what we need to do to get back to our swag as an offense and have some confidence and get going again.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT