TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 7, 2011
Seth Doege
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   SETH DOEGE: When you go down there and things don't work out and you don't play up to expectations, it's going to sting. But just like as any other loss, it's one of those things where you kind of have to let it go and play the next game, because the next game is just as important or more important as the last one. So we have a three-game season, and we need to figure out how to take care of business. 

 Q. Did not scoring a touchdown the first drive and then on the third drive, did that affect you guys much, or did you feel at that point in time you still had a lot of momentum?
 SETH DOEGE: That's funny you ask that. Me and Torres talked about what if that first touchdown wouldn't have been called back would it have been a different ballgame, would it have sparked us or whatever. 
 Then I started thinking about it. It shouldn't have mattered if we scored points or not. Every drive we should have the mentality that we are going to score and go out there and execute whatever plays are called. 
 So I felt like after the first drive I thought we had really good offensive momentum, felt like if we took care of business then we should have been able to drive the ball and put up points. 
 But I think we just shot ourselves in the foot in the red zone and killed drives.

 Q. Are you worried about starting to lose the cohesiveness because of this stretch?
 SETH DOEGE: I think we're doing a good job of staying together. And I think that's a big part of what we need to do right now. These last three games are going to be very important. 
 And I think it's important that our team does stick together. And it's part of my job and the seniors job and the guys that have leadership roles to make sure we stay intact and keep growing as a football team, because we can be very good once we put everything on the table and play like we know how to play.

 Q. Talk about Saturday, arguing, is there any of that?
 SETH DOEGE: No, not that I know of. I felt like we had a good Sunday meeting. We addressed some things just like we always do. And then it's the matter of fact of going out and putting those issues into play and getting them right, getting them correct and understanding what it takes to win football games and what it's going to take to win these next three.

 Q. What's happened in the last couple of weeks really shaped your confidence, can you talk about that? Is that something that you feel the team is struggling with?
 SETH DOEGE: Confidence? Maybe a little bit. It's hard to say. But for me personally I feel confident in our ability to win football games. And I feel confident in our ability to move the ball on anybody we play, and if you are sitting in our meetings and you're watching film with us you would understand that the only time we're ever stopped is when we stop ourselves and it's only one or two guys every play whether it be me making a bad read or a bad throw or a guy running a wrong route not getting the depth on his route.
 Or offensive line taking the wrong step. And it's just the little things that kind of have been, we've been played with these last couple of weeks that kind of put us in a bad position. And then defensively, you know, they haven't had the best showings these last two weeks.
 But I'm confident and I feel like they're going to respond back. And their backs are against the corner. I think they're going to come out swinging and respond and do a good job.

 Q. Have you seen Oklahoma State play any this year?
 SETH DOEGE: Just on TV. When we're in a hotel or when we get done with the game and say it's an early game and they have a night game, I'll watch them. 
 I know Brandon Weeden from that camp, and he's a really good player. So I enjoy watching him. But like I say, I feel like offensively we should be able to move the ball and we need to have a really good week of practice and defensively I think they're going to get things corrected and come out swinging.

 Q. I know you're not playing against their offense, but is it fun to go step for step with one of the greatest offense teams?
 SETH DOEGE: Definitely a challenge. We've kind of been put on the I guess I don't know what the word is to say, but kind of been named Oklahoma State's almost JV squad. And so we kind of take that personal. And we want to get better every day. And that's our plan is to go out and prove every practice and be ready for this game to show we're not a JV squad, that we're a really good offense and a really good football team.
 That when we do things right, we're going to be hard to beat.

 Q. Would you talk about the Wounded Warrior game what it means to you, have special meaning or extra meaning?
 SETH DOEGE: Yes, it's a huge, huge honor to be able to play in a game like this and represent something so special. I remember last year feeling it was probably one of the most special things I've ever been a part of. And when those guys came in and talked to us, you know, kind of talked to the team, told us stories and let us know that they're behind us, and sometimes I get a Facebook message from a guy I went to high school with and he's in Afghanistan or somewhere and saying hey, man, like we're all behind y'all.
 And that's special, something that kind of puts it in perspective when you lose that you're not -- it's not that bad. There's a lot worse things going on in the world.

 Q. Can you talk about the concern in the turnovers, struggling turning the ball over?
 SETH DOEGE: Yeah, definitely. I mean, I'm not scared at all. But it's something we respect them for it. And that's just one of those things we're going to have -- the little things of ball security and me being accurate and not forcing balls and things like that are going to be huge in this game.

 Q. I know you talk a lot about it but could you talk about Adam James?
 SETH DOEGE: I think he's deserved the success he's had. He works hard. He's been a big vocal leader for this team. He's really changed his ways and turned things around. 
 He's playing well. So he's going to, it's going to be a special time for him. And I think the crowd should applaud him for everything he's been through.

 Q. When you say things he's been through?
 SETH DOEGE: He's just playing a lot better, you know what I mean? I think he's got more confidence in himself. He's confident in his team. His whole mentality is better as a football player, just going out there and making plays.

 Q. Are you worried about (inaudible)?
 SETH DOEGE: I don't think so. I think he's been through a lot. I don't think much could faze him at this point.

 Q. (Question off microphone)
 SETH DOEGE: From a team standpoint, I felt like anybody on our schedule, we were able to beat. But at the same time I knew if we didn't show up or we weren't ready to play or if we turned the ball over, anything like that, that we were capable of getting beat ourselves. 
 So my expectations just being a Red Raider and being the leader of this team, man, we're going to win every game.
 And so far I felt like if we would have done things a little different, if we would have tooken care of the ball a couple of games and wouldn't have shot ourselves in the foot, kind of stopped ourselves offensively, I feel like we should have won every game so far. 
 It's hard to say, like, we should be undefeated because who knows. But at the same time I know that we haven't put our best game out there each and every week to where I know what we're capable of doing.

 Q. Is it all the more frustrating knowing how well you guys can play, the struggles?
 SETH DOEGE: That's the most frustrating part. We're the same team that beat Oklahoma. And offensively and defensively. And the thing is for some reason these last two weeks we haven't been that same team. And I don't know if we're pressing or if we're not paying attention to the little details that we did against Oklahoma that helped us win that game.
 It's just one of those things we need to figure out. We need to go back to that and play that way. And I feel like if we play that way we're going to be a very hard team to beat. And it's just one of those things, we need to figure it out. And I think we will. And I think we'll have a great week of practice and I think we'll put on a good showing this weekend.

 Q. Can you talk about is there any more added pressure given this is the last home game? (Inaudible)
 SETH DOEGE: I don't think we do. You know, anytime you go out there on Saturday, it's a little bit of pressure. But I remember in a team meeting Scott Smith told me: If you want to be a dog, you gotta expect pressure. You expect pressure, that's the reason you play for. When he said that, I was like you're right, man, anytime you want to be a big-time player, if you want to be a dog in his words, then you want the pressure. I don't think it fazes this team. I think we're excited about playing at home. 
 I think we're ready to win a game at home and show our fans that, like, that this is a hard place to play, and that we're going to take care of business.

 Q. Playing for a national title, can you talk about that. 
 SETH DOEGE: I think we're excited about doing it against Oklahoma. I think we'll be excited the same way this weekend. So we're not going to look too much into that. We're going to prepare just like any other game and have a great week of practice and be motivated to play this game.
 There's a lot of things going on. Them coming in and it being the Wounded Warrior game. So we should be excited. And I think it's going to be a fun weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT