TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 31, 2011
Seth Doege
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  Q. How different does it feel this week than this time last week?   
     SETH DOEGE: After any game, you've got to put it behind you because the next one is just as big or more important than the last one you just played. Necessarily, other than a win and a loss feeling, it's just our mind's on Texas.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about your guy's success on the road and what can you attribute that to?   
     SETH DOEGE: You know what? It's just I guess being prepared to play and ready to play on the road. I don't really know what it is. Obviously we played better on the road than we do at home. We need to figure something out and play better at home than we do right now. But it's good that we do play so well on the road.  
  
  Q. Is the routine any different or what's it like for the game and preparations?   
     SETH DOEGE: It's really no different. It's almost the same as if we were playing here and we go to a hotel. Our meetings are exactly the same time. We eat the same food. I mean, it's all the same.   
     I really don't know what it is. Maybe guys are just excited to play in a hostile environment and that kind of gets guys ready to play.  
  
  Q. Are you excited to get back on the road to kind of maybe regroup since you all are so successful and then come back to face Oklahoma State?   
     SETH DOEGE: We're not even thinking about Oklahoma State right now. The only thing we're thinking about is going on the road. The only thing we're thinking about is a good week of practice and then going on the road to give Texas everything we've got.  
  
  Q. After you've had this big win, you've now had this experience on the other side, what will you do different maybe from just in talking with your teammates and getting ready for these games as you're moving forward than maybe you didn't know you needed to do this past week?   
     SETH DOEGE: I didn't change my preparation or anything like that. I didn't change anything on game day. It was just one of those things where I didn't play very well, and I made a lot of bad decisions. The only thing I can change from that is to learn from what I did on the field and make sure that never happens again.   
     But, overall, I'm not going to change the way I prepare or the way we prepare. I think a great week of practice gives us an opportunity to win the game.  
  
  Q. You mentioned Saturday you had still seen some guys on cloud nine on game day. Is that, do you think, your role to step up as you move forward and get everybody back in line? Or is there someone else that you would go to that would be more of an emotional leader on the offense, or do you see that as your job?   
     SETH DOEGE: We've already addressed it. We had a team meeting yesterday, a players' only talk. So we addressed it. I think guys are refocused. I think that game refocused everybody. Just knowing that if we're not ready to play, anybody on our schedule can beat us just like we can beat anybody as well.   
     I think as a team we're ready to roll, ready to practice, and ready to prepare for the Horns.  
  
  Q. Do you think that the loss Saturday night, as stunning and shocking as it was and overwhelmingly against you, does it say anything about maybe what happened in Oklahoma is a fluke?   
     SETH DOEGE: No, because we're the same team. We're exactly the same team. We just, I mean, we played totally opposite of the way we played against Oklahoma, so I don't think it's a fluke. I just think that when we're not ready to play, and we go out there and lay a dud, we're going to be embarrassed.  
  
  Q. So we've seen this great team at OU, and we saw the team that showed up. Which is the real Texas Tech? Is it some place in between or do you know?   
     SETH DOEGE: I mean, obviously, you want to play consistently and that's our goal is to be the great team every week. In this league, everybody's really good, so you may not be able to play perfect every week, but we need to find where we're playing consistently up at the top and not like we did last week.  
  
  Q. What is this rivalry this weekend mean to you?   
     SETH DOEGE: It's just another game. We're preparing just like it's any other game. We're preparing like it's Kansas State or A&M or whoever it may be.   
     We know they're good, and we know that they're going to be ready to play at home and they're excited about this game just like we are.  
  
  Q. Can you guys get more consistent?   
     SETH DOEGE: It really comes down to playing on Saturday because we've been consistently good practicing all week. It gives us an opportunity to win the game. It all comes down to being ready to go on kickoff and executing and being excited to play and everybody doing their job one play at a time.  
  
  Q. You had a lot of emotion talking about A&M that week. What are your emotions when you think about Texas?   
     SETH DOEGE: Obviously, it is kind the same way. You kind of grew up rooting for Texas, so you really didn't have a lot of care for the Longhorns. So it's kind of the same way. But I don't want to make it an overemotional game. I want to take it as another game, And take each meeting one meeting at a time, each practice, one practice at a time. And that way when the game comes around, I'm the most prepared player to play.  
  
  Q. Since you're trying to dial back your emotions a little bit is that because maybe some of the emotions have gotten the better of the team in past weeks, like this past week or A&M week?   
     SETH DOEGE: No, it's just something that the coaches have kind of been preaching to us and something I believe in. I believe in them. I believe in what they preach, so that's the route I'm going to take.  
  
  Q. The other night Neal said the receivers had a tough time getting off press coverage and didn't think you all ran the ball very well. Did Iowa have the best defensive package that you've played against this season?   
     SETH DOEGE: They definitely played well against us. It's hard to say. They put the best package together because we played so poorly. But you know, we didn't -- we didn't run routes and catch the football or throw the football particularly -- not good at all. It was just bad. It's just something that we needed to learn from and know that if we can't do that, then we're not going to be successful in this offense.  
  
  Q. Talk to Mason at all?   
     SETH DOEGE: I haven't. I've texted him over the years I mean not over the year, but over the season just to see how he was doing. He's texting me good luck or good game or something like that. But he's a good guy. I'm happy for him. I might send him a text this week and say hope you're ready.  
  
  Q. When you guys walked out of your players' only meeting yesterday, did you feel better about things than when you walked into that meeting?   
     SETH DOEGE: Yeah, I think the biggest thing we accomplished was letting that one go because you can't have a hangover of the last game win or lose, obviously and let it affect the next week, because this week's a big week for us.   
     Playing there, they're a really good football team, we're a good football team, so I think that gives us a chance to win the game. It's a big week. We need to prepare and not be worried about what we did last week.  
  
  Q. What do you have to work on specifically?   
     SETH DOEGE: I think we're a really good offense. I just don't think we showed up to play against Iowa State.  
  
  Q. Last time you had an 11 o'clock kickoff, you got down 20-0 to Kansas. How do you kind of take that okay, we know what happens if we don't come out ready to go, we can get down really quick? How do you change that mentality and what do you to make sure it doesn't happen again?   
     SETH DOEGE: It's all about starting fast. If we have the ball first, we need to go down and put up points instead of kind of delaying on getting started. I think it kind of goes for both sides of the ball. Defense starts fast, and maybe if they go out first, we need to stop them and get us the ball. We need to go down there and put points up. That's huge.   
     I think it was huge against Oklahoma when we scored on the first drive knowing that kind of making a statement that we were there to play, and we were going to put up a lot of points.  
  
  Q. The ball control offenses on the other side this weekend, is there more of a premium on you guys, more of an importance to score because you guys may not get as many snaps or as many plays?   
     SETH DOEGE: I think on any team, a team that controls the ball for the opposing offense, you're not going to get as many series as you would like. So you have to make every series count, and it's going to have to count with points whether it be touchdowns or field goals. More than likely, the goal around here is to score touchdowns.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about Justin Keown, and what he's had to battle through this year with his issues and what he means when he's back in the lineup?   
     SETH DOEGE: Yeah, he's fought hard. He's one of the senior leaders. Obviously, he's been through two knee problems, but he keeps fighting and keeps rehabbing. You know, when he's in there, I think the guys -- he's a leader of that offensive line, so once he's in there, they kind of feel a little more comfortable and know that -- I don't know. I think they just get a feeling that their job that he kind of expects them to do their job, and they do it a little better when he's in.  
  
  Q. Seeing the success that OU and K-State, the spread them out, throw them all over the field offense, does that make you excited about this game?   
     SETH DOEGE: You would think. It's just when you see that, you get excited about it, but at the same time, you have to execute the game plan as well. They'll hold us to whatever they held Kansas to last week.   
  
  Q. Anybody talk to you about your tackle after the interception? You ran them down and had a pretty good tackle there at the 1-yard line?  
     SETH DOEGE: I was pretty upset with myself for throwing it, so...   
     One thing that Coach Brown has always kind of reached to us, if you're going to throw a pick, you better be the first one there to get him. That's all I could think about is I threw the pick, now I've got to make the tackle.  
  
  Q. How about your touchdown and kind of putting your body on the line there.   
     SETH DOEGE: Well, it was either slide and get hit or score a touchdown and get hit, and I'd rather score.  
  
  Q. Are you kind of frustrated with the effort that you put into that touchdown that it didn't really spark anything on the sidelines?   
     SETH DOEGE: I really didn't pay all that much attention. I had a lot of things going through my mind. I was excited, but at the same time I was trying to keep my emotions in check and not get too involved in what's going on. Just trying to focus on doing what I could control and my job.  
  
  Q. Where were you for the '08 Texas game?   
     SETH DOEGE: I was in the stands. I was red shirted, but I was like in the recruit section because we had free tickets there or whatever. I remember going down on the field, and it was like I guess the fans had rushed the field already. Or, No, they hadn't rushed the field, but they had scored.   
     So I went out on the field, and the fans rushed the field. I guess they were going to challenge it or whatever. They hadn't decided if it was a touchdown or not yet, so I remember seeing Chris Lovell, and he had a picture of it. I was like hey, did he score? And he showed me the picture, and I was like, this is awesome. Then they announced it, and everybody went crazy.  
  
  Q. Who on the offense or on the team would you say is the emotional leader? The guy on the team that kind of rallies the troops or is there one?   
     SETH DOEGE: I think there are a lot of guys that we all kind of pass it along. It's whoever is kind of at the moment who is in the lead, who can do it.   
     But if I had to pick a guy, Adam James can spark some guys with what he says, and get some guys going by his excitement. Alex Torres does the same thing. When he says something, you listen to him. Those are two guys that really come to mind when guys are going to spark the team a little bit.  
  
  Q. Did it disappoint you that you didn't feel that spark on the sideline at all?   
     SETH DOEGE: As I said, I didn't get into it. I try to keep my emotions at a certain level, and just worry about my job and what I can control. It didn't feel like the same sideline as OU, of course, but that's something we'll need to work on and improve on. And those guys that play will take some pride in it.  
  
  Q. Is this as vulnerable a Texas team as you've seen?   
     SETH DOEGE: I mean, I've only watched the Oklahoma State game on film, so it's hard to say that they're a vulnerable team. I feel like they're a good team. I feel like defensively they're really, really talented.   
     I just know we need to be ready to play, and we need to have a good week of practices.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT