TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 29, 2011
Seth Doege
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. Can you talk about the different outcome this time around compared to last week?
 SETH DOEGE: Comes down to they're ready to play and we weren't. And they came out and did exactly what we were preached to all week. They came in here and beat us just like they did last year. 
 Give them credit. They were prepared and we weren't. They were ready to play and we weren't.

 Q. Did you see this coming from the team this week? Were you concerned coming into this game?
 SETH DOEGE: No, I mean, we felt like we had good practices and that gave us an opportunity to win the game. But it's all about coming out and being ready to play and executing, which obviously we didn't.

 Q. Has it been part of the game, were you surprised it drug out the whole game?
 SETH DOEGE: I don't really know. I just know that we weren't ready to play, and it showed and we embarrassed ourselves and we embarrassed our coaches and our fans and it's something we need to work on. We have a lot of improvement to do. But like I said, give them credit. They were ready to play. They were confident and came in and did exactly what they wanted to do.

 Q. What do you take from this moving forward? 
 SETH DOEGE: I mean, you just gotta learn from it. Learn from it and learn from the mistakes and watch the film. 
 You've got to stay positive, because we still have games left on the schedule. And our goals are still, you know, reachable. So learn from the mistakes.

 Q. 200 yards passing, what were they doing -- how were they trying to defend the passing game. How were they being successful?
 SETH DOEGE: They were manning us up. They didn't blitz -- I don't know if they blitzed any. They just manned us up. And we just -- we didn't throw and catch very well. So that's why we're under -- we couldn't get the ball moving. I'll have to watch the film.

 Q. (Question off microphone)
 SETH DOEGE: Yeah, the first one was a bad throw. The second one was just a stupid throw, you know. Guy had him beat to the spot. 

 Q. Did you feel like they were pressing early on?
 SETH DOEGE: No, I never felt pressed. Just made a mistake you can't really make in this offense and expect especially when we needed someone to step up and make a play, kind of put us in a bad position.

 Q. Can you talk about the exchanges?
 SETH DOEGE: The exchange, tried to pull it and lost it and then the other one I just dropped.

 Q. Do you think the team was stalled waiting a week and that was a cause for some of the lack of focus and momentum, or flatness or whatever it is that happened tonight?
 SETH DOEGE: I'm sure -- I mean, tonight kind of proves that maybe some of us were still on cloud nine. But we felt like we practiced well but today you could tell that some guys weren't really mentally into it. And I made some mental mistakes. So it's a team effort. 
 But Iowa State came in here did what they wanted. They were ready and we weren't. 

 Q. After Alex being so hot the last three games, what was the big factor tonight? How were they defending him?
 SETH DOEGE: Nothing different, nothing that we haven't seen. Maybe he didn't get as many opportunities to make plays. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT