TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 24, 2011
Seth Doege
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. Seth, how much does knowing what you guys are capable of, how much confidence does that give you? 
 SETH DOEGE: I think we had confidence even regardless of the two losses. We felt like we were a pretty good football team. We just had to put it together and really take advantage of the opportunities to win the game, which we did against Oklahoma. 
 It just proves the fact that we can be really good. If we prepare and put in the work each week and go out there and execute a game plan like we know how and everybody does their job, then we can be a pretty good football team.

 Q. You guys always talk about it, win or loss having 24 hours to celebrate and moving on to the next game. Is this one a little bit harder keeping the magnitude of the result? 
 SETH DOEGE: I wouldn't say it's that much harder, because this one won't mean anything if you lose the next one. If you want this one to continue to be special, and when the season's over it can be a special thing, then you've got to win the next one. 
 Like you said, we've got to forget about this one. It's over. It was awesome. It was something that we'll remember for the rest of our lives. But in this conference, you've got to be ready to play every week, and it doesn't matter who you play. 
 Ohio State came here last year or we went there last year and they gave it to us pretty good. So we need to really prepare this week and understand that we're going to get their best shot.

 Q. Do you think the team understands that you can't get overconfident with Ohio State coming in? 
 SETH DOEGE: Yeah, we understand that anything can happen in this league, because statistically this is the best league in the country right now. So we're not going to overlook Iowa State. 
 I think it's important that the leaders of this team help everybody else understand that we really do need to have a great week of practice, that way we can put ourselves in the best opportunity to win the game.

 Q. Can you talk about a point in the game that maybe you thought it was going to be a special night for you guys that everything was clicking? Was there one particular point in the game that that really clicked in your mind? 
 SETH DOEGE: I feel like the very first drive when we scored so quickly. I felt confident going into the game, but I felt like we needed to score and let them know that we were there, that we came to play. So I felt like that kind of made a statement that we weren't -- we weren't what we used to be. We're there to give them our best shot, and we were there to win the game.

 Q. You guys threw the ball down the field, and what did you see in the film? 
 SETH DOEGE: On the down-field throws, we just felt like our receivers, our outside receivers gave us our biggest strength offensively. So we felt like we needed to take some shots down field. It was important not to get frustrated like at the very first of the game where we missed a couple. So we kept going to it. Ended up making a lot of big plays and it helped us out a lot. 
 With the draw play, that was just Coach Brown being Coach Brown, being a great offensive coordinator. Knowing that that was something that was going to work. We kind of went to that and it set up a lot of things.

 Q. At fourth down you were 14-7 (Inaudible). Can you talk about how that play was handled? It was a low snap. 
 SETH DOEGE: It was just part of my read, and I bobbled the snap. When you bobble a snap, it's really hard to hand the ball off or it's dangerous to try to still hand the ball off, so I decided to keep it and it ended up working out.

 Q. Is it tough to individually deal with this now? There is obviously more attention and distractions around you? 
 SETH DOEGE: No, I don't really worry about all that stuff. I approach every week the same and I prepare every week the same. So it's working out for me right now, and I'm not going to change anything the way I do.

 Q. Talk about working the Oklahoma game and trying to get that snap down for Ohio State? 
 SETH DOEGE: We'll get it worked out during the course of this week. I've had a lot of snaps throughout fall camp. We actually do take snaps in practice and stuff. Not all the snaps are bad. There were snaps that were perfect that I just bobbled. 
 He did a great job at center, and we'll get everything worked out during this week.

 Q. (Inaudible)?
 SETH DOEGE: I feel like Crawford is fearless, and he's competitive. He wants to do it. I remember talking to him. I sat by him on the bus, and he said, man, I could have done so much more. I said, man, you did a great job, just enjoy this win. 
 That is just part of Crawford. He wants to help this team out as much as he can. He's a team player and he's doing a really good job for us.

 Q. Talk about Adam James and everything he's gone through and the year and the game he's had? 
 SETH DOEGE: Yeah, it's awesome to see Adam have success, because he's persevered through a lot. Everybody knows what he's gone through. He works hard, and he deserves the success that he's having, and he's playing really well.

 Q. Can you share any of his half-time message with us and what that meant to the team in the second half? 
 SETH DOEGE: Adam's? 

 Q. Yeah. 
 SETH DOEGE: I honestly I guess I was focused on what I had to do. I must have been talking to Coach Brown, because I didn't hear it. But he's a great motivational speaker. He's good at talking in front of people. 
 The thing about Adam is people can get up and talk in front of people and it can be fake and you can sense that it's not true. But with Adam, when he gets up and says something, you know it's coming from his heart and he means it. He cares a lot about this football team, so when he talks, everybody listens.

 Q. What's he done differently the last three or four games? 
 SETH DOEGE: Just the plays that we called ended up being open for him. He's made plays on the ball, made some good catches, so it's just one of those things that you practice well during the week, and I feel like if you do that when you get in the game, it's a lot easier and you make plays.

 Q. There was that one series late where you threw passes on that one drive, what did you see in that series? 
 SETH DOEGE: Explain that again? Went out there to Adam? 

 Q. Yeah. 
 SETH DOEGE: It was just the plays called ended up the reads being on him. So I guess a couple times he was the first read, and he ended up being open and we threw him the ball he made a catch and got up field.

 Q. Of all the receivers that made plays for you guys, was it (Inaudible)?
 SETH DOEGE: Yeah, that's the deal throughout the season is guys stepping up when they have to. Like you said, Fisher's been doing a good job making plays these last couple of weeks. I'm excited because he really plays hard. And he hasn't had a shot to play offensively, but he really does a good job on special teams, and he works hard. He's the first guy down there on kickoff most of the time or on punt. It's awesome to see Fish be a part of the offense. 

 Q. How frustrating was it to watch that Iowa State film?
 SETH DOEGE: It was weird, because we got down so bad early, and then we fought back. It felt like we were coming back, about to win the game and then things go sour. We still have that taste in the back of our mouths, so it's just one of those things. We're motivated because we know exactly what they can do to us if we're not really to play.

 Q. What are some of the keys to getting as many touches and having as many big runs as he's had? 
 SETH DOEGE: It's just him being a player. We felt like he gave us the best chance on the run to make a big play. He's fast. He's quick. He's grown up. He's not a young guy anymore. He's been playing a lot of snaps, so he's matured. He's a great player. The offensive line, you've got to credit them when the backs get big runs. They're doing their job. DeAndre was doing his.

 Q. Talk about Iowa State? 
 SETH DOEGE: I think they're pretty similar to like Kansas State. They're very sound in what they do. They don't do a whole lot, but what they do, they're really good at. It's one of those games where the margin of error is very small. We can't shoot ourselves in the foot because they'll take advantage of it.

 Q. Do you feel like this win speaks to the depth of the Big 12? How good is this conference? 
 SETH DOEGE: I kind of agree that it's arguably the best conference in the country just because if you look at it, anybody can beat anybody on a given day. That's just how I feel. That's why it's important to move on from a win and understand that you've got to be ready for the next one.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT