TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 17, 2011
Seth Doege
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. Give us your thoughts on next week's game? 
 SETH DOEGE: It's definitely going to be a challenge for us. It's kind of exciting getting to play one of the top, if not the top, team in the country, and playing there at night. They're kind of a whole different team when they play at home than when they playa way. It's definitely going to be a challenge. 
 It's one of those things where we need to bring intensity and focus to practice every day so that way we're getting better every day, and that way we can be prepared and go into that game having a chance to win it.

 Q. What do you think the big difference is between playing there and playing here? You've gotten to see some of that success playing here and then going up there and seeing them have big success. 
 SETH DOEGE: I don't really know. I just think they're really excited to play at home. I think it's just one of those things they feel comfortable with and they're very excited to play. I don't really know what the difference is, but it's definitely, like you said, it's going to be a challenge for us.

 Q. Is it hard to get last weekend out of your system? 
 SETH DOEGE: Yeah, it was. But at the same time every week is a big week. So we've got that 24-hour window where you kind of have a sour taste in your mouth. When it comes to Sunday after film, it's kind of you've got to get rid of it and get ready for the next one.

 Q. Is the pressure a little off now because you lost these two games at home, both against ranked teams? Now you're going to play somebody who is a single digit win team. In some sense would you feel less pressure? 
 SETH DOEGE: No, just because I feel like -- well, one, I feel like we're capable of beating anybody on our schedule. But at the same time, everybody on our schedule is good. So I think there's still pressure to prepare every week like you were to the week before because everybody's capable of beating everybody in this league.

 Q. Seem like a dream ride for you personally statistics-wise and the way you've been playing? How tough -- it's been a while since you've had to deal with this struggle. 
 SETH DOEGE: Right. The coaches preach two things, really, that we start fast and that we finish. Those are two things that I didn't really do. Threw that pick early and then turned the ball over in the fourth quarter. I put my teammate that's bad position, and I put my coaches in a bad position too. 
 A lot of people want to blame the coaching staff for a loss. We have one of the best coaching staffs in the country. For me, personally, and I know I can speak on behalf of my teammates, we feel we're the most prepared team every week. It's a matter of us going out there and executing, and that was one of the things that didn't happen on Saturday night is we didn't execute the way the coaches coached us during the week to do. 
 That's put on our shoulders, but at the same time we're behind it. We're ready to move on.

 Q. When you looked at the film, did you learn anything that you didn't already know Saturday night? 
 SETH DOEGE: No, I mean, they showed every look that I've seen on film, and I was ready for. The thing about those interceptions is progression wasn't terrible. I knew where I was going with the ball, it was just one of those things where I forced it or I didn't see a guy. In that last one I was just trying to throw it away, and I didn't throw it far enough. It was one of those things. 
 In that second half, they kind of sat back and didn't really blitz a whole lot. They played soft. They're kind of just waiting for us to make a mistake, which we did and kind of shot ourselves in the foot.

 Q. I don't know if you watched the film yet or not, but you certainly know what they're capable of. How good is this Oklahoma team? 
 SETH DOEGE: Yeah, I watched a little film last night. They fly around. They're physical. They're big. I'm sure that all of their athletes are some of the top athletes in the country. It's just one of those things we need to prepare and have mentally be right to go into this game, physically take care of our bodies this week, so we can be fresh and go into that game and give them a good shot.

 Q. Can you talk about this road game? It's a true night game. 
 SETH DOEGE: I think it's our first true hostile environment. We have a lot of young guys on the team that really haven't played in a hostile environment yet, and this is going to be their first taste. But at the same time it comes down to believing in the game plan and believing in your teammates, not worrying about what the fans are saying or anything like that. 
 It's just one of those things that they'll learn. Once we kick off, they'll get comfortable in understanding that we're there to win a game, and kind of blocking out everything else.

 Q. Is it odd going back there? 
 SETH DOEGE: Yeah, it's weird. But at the same time, you can't control that, so you don't worry about it.

 Q. Can you talk about (Indiscernible) and the breakout game and what you've seen in practice? 
 SETH DOEGE: Corn's one of those guys that practices really hard and plays really hard. He cares about this football team. So it's good to see him actually make plays and getting some spotlight and catching a touchdown. I remember before the game he was like, hey, man, look for me on the seams. I want a touchdown really bad, and he got one. So I was excited for him. 
 He's one of those guys that will play really hard on special teams when a lot of guys won't. He makes plays wherever he is on the field. He blocks during the run game really well, sew deserves to make catches and have a good game.

 Q. (Inaudible) where do you feel like you are now? 
 SETH DOEGE: It just gets bigger. It gets bigger every week, and it's more important every week. It's a big game for us. They're a top team in the country. We're coming off two losses, but we feel we're capable of winning every game on our schedule. It's just a matter of preparation and then coming into the game and executing the game plan.

 Q. Will it be that us-versus-them mentality or whatever? Is it good to get away from home sometimes? 
 SETH DOEGE: Yeah, we love playing at home. I don't know if it's good or not. Wherever we've got to play, we're going to play. If it's home or away, we're going to be excited about it.

 Q. Can you talk about this three-game stretch? Three ranked opponents ending with probably the toughest game on your schedule all year? Can you just talk about what this three-game stretch is like? 
 SETH DOEGE: Yeah, if you look at the Big 12, it's kind of the superior conference this year, so it's something that we didn't expect. We knew that everybody in our conference was good. It just happened to be that we were playing these three ranked teams. 
 But just like I've said, we really do feel like if we play up to our ability, we'll play with anybody.

 Q. You talked about being prepared and just not executing. Is there something that you guys, you as a leader or defensive leaders, will talk about in terms of what you want to see from an execution standpoint this next week and moving forward? 
 SETH DOEGE: Oh, yeah. We had meetings yesterday, and we had meetings as groups. It's just one of those things that it came down to Kansas State being a little more physical than us and them wanting it a little more. 
 We were prepared. We knew exactly what we had to do. Kind of the same thing against A&M. We had our opportunities to win the game. Then when opportunities game we kind of shot ourselves in the foot. Those are the opportunities that we need to learn from. If they present themselves again, take advantage of it.

 Q. Are there times in the offense that you feel it's out of control or it's a detriment? 
 SETH DOEGE: No, I feel like we scored a lot of points off the defense not getting ready. Sometimes they lineup and you don't really know what they're doing, but if you stick to your rules that the coaches give us, you'll be fine. That's just kind of like -- it's just something we do. It may seem out of control sometimes, but as an offensive group, we feel we're in control and we play fast.

 Q. Do the penalties get kind of frustrating, whether it be substitution or lining up on or whatever? Does it get frustrating for you guys? Does it break a little of your rhythm? 
 SETH DOEGE: Are you talking about when we snapped the ball and they had the substitute and they call it? 

 Q. That or they all got called because you didn't give them time. Does it get frustrating for you? 
 SETH DOEGE: It's just something that we need to work on. Offensive penalties, we can't have them. Procedures -- if somebody's not set, and we're running NASCAR, it's usually my fault for not letting them get set. You can't really worry about breaking the rhythm or anything like that. But even when we're not playing like NASCAR tempo, we're playing fast anyway. 
 Sometimes you can't even tell if we're doing NASCAR or playing at a regular tempo because we're so used to playing fast. It's just one of those things we've got to be disciplined and get lined up and not have high procedure penalties or something like that when we're playing fast.

 Q. (Inaudible)?
 SETH DOEGE: I can't really remember exactly what they did. I know they're very talented. I know we didn't play very well. I remember us not playing very well offensively. I think it's going to be a different ballgame. I think we're a lot better than we were last year. They may be a lot better than they were last year. But at the same time, we really do feel like we can move the ball on anybody. 
 They're going to be a challenge, no question, and it's going to be -- we're going to need to prepare and be excited to play. But at the same time, we feel confident in what we can do, too.

 Q. They have a 39-home game streak. Is it kind of a motivating factor to win? 
 SETH DOEGE: It's definitely another motivating factor for us. Something you can put on the bulletin or whatever to kind of see every day that nobody's done it before. If you do it, you'll be the first team to do it. It's something that would be special. It's something that you visualize. 
 I kind of visualize going through my plays before a game or something. Visualize celebrating with my teammates, visualize something positive. That's something that you visualize that if that happens, it would be special.

 Q. What is the mood like in the locker room right now after these two games? 
 SETH DOEGE: We're really a tight group, so there wasn't a whole lot of finger pointing. There's always a few negative things once you lose like we did Saturday, but we got those corrected as a team. I think the players did a really good job, the leaders like Torres and guys like that really stepped up and did a good job of making sure nothing negative came about it, and that we stayed together because that's huge. Keeping all the conference plays and staying together and staying positive. 
 That's what it says in the locker room right now. Yeah, we've lost two games in a row, but we're about to go play the best team in the country, so how can you not be excited about that? 

 Q. How much more pressure is on you, because obviously it's going to be different going forward, maybe not as good as it was without Eric? 
 SETH DOEGE: We still feel very confident in the running game. Aaron and DeAndre and them keep getting better and better each week. So I don't feel a whole lot of pressure. I feel very confident in my teammates and that's the way I felt all year.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT