TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 3, 2011
Seth Doege
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  Q. A&M lost their last two games (Inaudible)?   
 SETH DOEGE: I think the entire team wanted them undefeated in the Top 10 just because we wanted to play them undefeated in the Top 10.   
 But I think any time A&M comes to town, whether it be whoever's record is bad or whoever's record is good, it's an exciting game for all of us, so I don't think it really matters.  
  
  Q. Is there a certain danger of desperation though when you play a team that's playing desperate?   
 SETH DOEGE: We don't really worry about them too much. We worry about us and what we can control. That's what we do.  
  
  Q. Is the history of this game going to be -- are you going to think about that at all leading up to it, this being the last match between you two for a while?   
 SETH DOEGE: Yeah, you hear guys talk about it all the time in the locker room, so it's there. But you don't want to get too caught up in the history. It's still just a conference game. It's just another game on our schedule. But at the same time, it's A&M. We're excited about it.  
  
  Q. Who do you think has the bigger edge, A&M leaving and excited to go to the SEC, or you guys wanting them to send them out on a low note?   
 SETH DOEGE: I'm sure they're excited, but we're excited too. We're going to prepare for the second part you said.  
  
  Q. You've been here now your whole college career. What is your favorite moment of this series?   
 SETH DOEGE: I remember Graham going up to A&M and throwing it to Robert Johnson in one of the last plays of the game. That was probably my favorite when they scored over the white DB. I don't know his name. Peterson or something like that. He's from Lexington.  
  
  Q. How are you preparing to make an impression?   
 SETH DOEGE: They're a really good football team and we know that. Their offense is really talented and their defense is really good.   
 Like Coach Brown sat up here and talked about it, but, for us, we're going to prepare just like it's any game. We're not going to put too much pressure on oh, it's A&M, they're really good. It's just another game on our schedule that we've got to prepare for and have really good Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday practice for.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?   
 SETH DOEGE: Something we need to work on. Something we need to do. I don't think we can start as slow as we did against Kansas and expect to really climb back.   
 I mean, we could. If it came down to that, I feel like we could. But at the same time, we need to start early just like they can. They'll probably start early, and we need to match their intensity or points or whatever it be.  
  
  Q. Does it help you if you don't start early knowing that they've collapsed in the last two games?   
 SETH DOEGE: They may have collapsed these last two games, but they may not in our game. We feel like we play better in the second half, obviously. But at the same time we've got to learn to play four quarters, especially against a team this good.  
  
  Q. You said that you felt your skill players had the edge on Kansas, do you feel that way this week?   
 SETH DOEGE: We feel confident and comfortable with our skill guys. It's hard to say who has the advantage because they're so good and we're good. I think it's going to be a one-on-one battle, a fist fight. Whoever shows up will win that battle.  
  
  Q. You mentioned watching the '06 game and the Robert Johnson touchdown. Where were you back then?   
 SETH DOEGE: I was in my living room with my dad.  
  
  Q. He got a couple good hit there's in the Kansas game. Folks said that sometimes Graham Harold would take some hits and get fired up and kind of want to make the other team pay. Has that kind of crossed your mind as well?  
 SETH DOEGE: Well, especially the cheap ones. When you take the cheap ones, it kind of gets you a little frustrated and you almost want to put it in the end zone the next play. But the thing that kind of excited me about it is my teammates were kind of pissed off and they were ready to hit somebody. They kept telling me on the sidelines, hey, man, we have your back. So that was kind of cool to see.  
  
  Q. Is there a danger in an atmosphere like this with all the emotions of the game, is there a danger of guys getting too high, too excited?   
 SETH DOEGE: Yeah, there can be, but that's part of the players, the leadership of the players is to keep everybody kind of on a level to where we can be excited to play but not show up too tight and maybe too excited to where we can't really get our job done.  
  
  Q. When A&M announced wanting to go to the SEC and it officially happened, was this one of the games you guys had circled on the calendar that you were really looking forward to?   
 SETH DOEGE: I think regardless of whatever happens with A&M and any Texas Tech schedule, I think this is one you circle because it's Texas A&M. I feel like they're probably feeling the same way.   
 I think it's a big rival game, and I think both teams are really excited to play. I hope we have a lot of people there. I don't know. I think it's going to be a fun game. I can't wait.  
  
  Q. As a Red Raider and Texas Tech fan, what are your thoughts on the game?   
 SETH DOEGE: Growing up as a Tech fan, you always had a sour taste in your mouth for A&M. I'm guessing if you asked Ryan Tannehill, he would probably feel the same way about Texas Tech.   
 So we're excited about playing them. This is what you sign up for. This is why you sign your name on the dotted line to play for Texas Tech. This is one of those things when you think about playing for Tech, you think about playing A&M. So we're excited about it.  
  
  Q. Are you thinking about this might be the last time you guys play them?   
 SETH DOEGE: It's crossed my mind because you would love to play them. Just personally, I'd love to play them two years. But if this is the last time we get to play them, we want to end it on a good note.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like anything you throw to Eric Ward right now, he's going to catch?   
 SETH DOEGE: He's playing really well. He's stepped up when we needed him to step up. He made that really good catch on the goal line. That was a Top 10 play. That was crazy.   
 I mean, he's doing a really good job. Yeah, I trust him a lot. I feel very confident in throwing the ball to Eric and giving him routes, individual routes and him winning.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible)?   
 SETH DOEGE: I met him at that Peyton Manning Passing Academy. He's a really good guy. He's very humble. I got to watch him throw. He throws the ball really well. He kind of seems to me and comes off to me that he's going to be a good leader and a good leader for that football team. It shows because they're really good offensively, and I think he's playing really well. So he's a good guy.  
  
  Q. The first game had some crazy weather. Lots of rain predicted Saturday night. Does that kind of throw a wrinkle in what you want to do or will you keep chugging along?   
 SETH DOEGE: No, we're going to prepare just like any game whatever the forecast says -- I'm sure in the back of their minds they're thinking we've got to have something else we can go to if something else does happen. But we're going to prepare like it's going to be a perfect night.  
   
    
  
   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT