TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 26, 2011
Seth Doege
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  Q. Seth, looked like you were laboring a little bit after the game?   
 SETH DOEGE: I took some shots, but every game is kind of like that. I mean, I'm a little sore afterwards but everything checks out okay, and kind of ready to roll, ready to get back into the groove.   
  
  Q. How much confidence does a win like that give your team, and you?   
 SETH DOEGE: It was huge for our team just because we battled the entire game, and some things didn't go our way and sometimes we shot ourselves in the foot, but the thing about this game is we just kept battling and we never panicked and we knew offensively, we knew once the defense stopped to them a field goal and they went up 34, that we were going to win this game, nothing else crossed our mind than winning this game. It was a lot of fun, and I'm so glad that we came up with a W.   
  
  Q. Can you take us through the last touchdown?   
 SETH DOEGE: You know, Coach Brown, he's on the headsets with the guys upstairs, trying to figure out what was a good play call, and he came to me and said this is what we are going to do, and we had practiced it. It was not actually on the script or in the game plan, but we had practiced it a lot during practice. We had run it before.   
 So we felt like it was a good option for us because I had a lot of options I could have done. I actually gave Franks the route and the DB jumped off sides. You can watch it on film. He jumped off sides and kind of got underneath it. Franks could not get into his route, so I bought myself some time and looked to the opposite corner of the end zone and he had broke out and just wide open.   
 So a little bit of luck but also, you know, I think we deserved it. I think how we battled and everything, how we practiced and how hard we worked, I think that we deserved that victory.   
  
  Q. So Jacoby was the primary or first option on the play?  
 SETH DOEGE: He wasn't -- he was kind of a back side read kind of thing, but it was -- at the same time, it was an option for me and I knew he was manned up. And I felt good about the route I gave him, and like I said, he probably would have been open if that guy wouldn't have jumped outside and he jumped inside of him and he couldn't really get off the line at that point.  
  
  Q. Were your teammates --  
 SETH DOEGE: Yeah, all of them said, "I didn't know you could do that." And, shoot, I looked kind of fast on film -- I remember across the sidelines saying, saying, hey, man, how slow did I look.   
  
  Q. Is that something more defenses are going to have to expect out of you now?  
 SETH DOEGE: I feel like I can do some things with my feet. I'm not going to out-run anybody. But if the play breaks down, if I go through my read and I can do it -- if I can take off and run, I can get a few yards.  
  
  Q. How much did you have to adjust when Darren went out?   
 SETH DOEGE: You know, Franks and some of those guys really stepped up, you know, and played well. We don't throw the ball down the field as much as we would like to, we didn't have that many explosive plays, but there wasn't a whole lot of adjusting. Those guys stepped up and did well.   
 Eric Ward played well and we ran the ball really well, so there wasn't, you know, that's the thing about us is we know we are talented at every position so if somebody goes down, we know -- we are confident in that position that somebody else will step up.   
  
  Q. In each of those two big runs that you had, can you tell us what happened on those plays and what you saw to turn it into a run?   
 SETH DOEGE: Well, I guess the first one is a read pass option and my read told me to throw it. There was somebody routing my throw and so I just took off the run, and it just ended up being wide open, so I just got a few yards on that run.  
 Then the second run, everybody was just covered up, and it was just time to scramble, and once I scrambled, I just saw a running lane. And Eric kind of took his man up the field and we had a good go, too.   
  
  Q. How much does -- inaudible.   
 SETH DOEGE: He played well. The tempo was what excited me, the way he kind of took control of the tempo and that's something he's good at and he wants to be good at is tempo. You could tell there was a difference when he was in.   
  
  Q. What do you know about this week, Kansas, and what you have to do against them?  
 SETH DOEGE: I know they are a Big 12 opponent. I know it's the first conference game and I know they will be excited to play us. I haven't watched too much to have a really good feeling, but we need to be ready to play, and so we need to get ready to play and improve this week and practice well.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about your mind-set going into conference play, does it change from what you were going into, non-conference?   
 SETH DOEGE: Just in my mind, I keep telling myself just to keep improving and get better. I feel like productivity wasn't great on Saturday. I felt like there was some things that -- some plays that needed to be made that I didn't make.   
 So that's, I just learned from the film and I feel like Nevada was a really good team. I feel like they can compete in this conference, as well. So I kind of take them as -- that's kind of a way I can grade myself and how I need -- what I need to improve prove on and things like that going into conference play because I think Nevada's defense was really good, and so was their offense.   
  
  Q. So what do you think you guys learned in this game, facing adversity in the second half and coming back to pull it out?  
 SETH DOEGE: We learned that we can keep battling and we learned that we are not a panic team. We kind of learned that in the first week, too, is we went down against Texas State and nobody panicked and we felt like we could still win the game. The whole time against Nevada we felt like we were going to win the game.   
 We never panicked and we stayed confident and we stayed relaxed and knew what we had to do and if we got a shot with we needed to take advantage of it. That last drive was our shot. And like I said, in nobody's mind was there like, oh, man, like we need to score. We were going to score, there was no doubt about it, period.  
  
  Q. Was it a wake-up call before conference play?   
 SETH DOEGE: Yeah, I mean, it's just -- it was a good game. They played well. We played well. We came out with a W. But I think it was a good game to know that Nevada was a good team and we needed to see somebody that was good before going into conference play because like I said everybody in conference is good.   
  
  Q. How different is --  
 SETH DOEGE: Well, I mean, every Big 12 game is a big game, so I'm sure there's going to be a lot of people there. It's going to be exciting. The thing about us is we can't worry about it's their fans or it's a different atmosphere, their field or whatever.   
 We just have to worry about us and go through our routine. We have been through it -- we went through it in New Mexico and the young guys know what to do. So we just have to worry about us and relax and go play.   
  
  Q. How tough is it, with the eleven o'clock start? Is that a real factor for young guys?   
 SETH DOEGE: I would say no. I feel like any time we are playing, guys are going to be excited no matter what time it is.   
 So I don't think it's going to be a big deal. We'll wake up a little earlier. But you know, we're waking up to play a Big 12 football game so I don't think guys are going to be tired. I think they are going to be more excited than anything.   
  
  Q. You heard about how many yards he gave up against Georgia Tech, does that alter -- the running game, make you want to try to hit the ground running more?  
 SETH DOEGE: You would think so. I haven't seen a lot of film on him yet to know whether we are going to be able to run the ball on them. That will come, and I'll watch a little film tonight. Tomorrow we'll meet with Coach Brown and Coach Brown will give us the game plan.  
 I feel good about our running game. I feel that the years in the past that if the passing game wasn't all on point, then we were kind of in a hole offensively. I felt like on Saturday night, the passing game wasn't bad, but it wasn't great. And we could still -- we relied on the running game which is good, so I'm excited about our running game. I feel like we could run it on anybody.  
 I feel like we are going to have the advantage there yet.   
  
  Q. The quarterback, have you seen what he does --  
 SETH DOEGE: I knew Eric, he's one of the most talented guys on our football team, maybe the most talented. I was excited to see him. He played really hard and ran really hard. I was excited for him. He did a really good job.   
  
  Q. The last drive, when Eric had that first down run on first and 15 -- did you check into that?  
 SETH DOEGE: It was a called play -- thinking back, I'm pretty sure it was a called play. He ran really well. The offensive line did a really good job in the running game. So like I said, first and 15, we felt like any time we needed to run the ball, we could in that game, so they did a good job on that.   
  
  Q. Inaudible.   
 SETH DOEGE: It's not a situation that we would like to be in but we never panicked. We knew that, you know, it was something -- we kind of harp on procedure penalties and ball security and stuff like that. When we started that drive, it wasn't the thing we wanted to start off with. But at the same time, we knew we couldn't control it any more and we had to go play the next play.   
  
  Q. With the touchdown --  
 SETH DOEGE: I just drilled a snap. I dropped it, took my eyes off of it. Something you can't do in big-time games.   
  
  Q. Can you remember the play before that, you tried to run it straight up the middle --  
 SETH DOEGE: It was a called play. It was a called play and we almost got -- I think we were one away.   
  
  Q. How much different --  
 SETH DOEGE: I feel like some other guys are going to step up and Darren was a great player, you know, we are going to miss him, but at the same time, I think we have guys that can step up and we can spread the ball around and still be productive.   
   
    
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT