TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 12, 2011
Seth Doege
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. How's the bye week? How did you approach it, and what did you work on? 
 SETH DOEGE: Well, we took some time off. Not a lot of time off, but we rested up. We kind of took it as kind of an extended week of kind of a fall camp kind of thing. We had to get better because everybody else in the country is getting better week two, so we had to get some work in and we had to get better, and I think that's what we did. 
 We did take some time off, but at the same time we did a lot of work to improve as a football team.

 Q. You are going to be playing eleven weeks without a without a break. Have you talked about that? 
 SETH DOEGE: As a team we're excited about it, because to be honest with you, I felt like the first game was kind of a tease for us. We're ready to get back into a routine where we're playing every Sunday a new opponent. So we're excited about it. 
 It's going to be a grind. That is part of college football, but at the same time we're excited about it. We're excited to be able to play every week and not have anymore bye weeks.

 Q. (Inaudible)?
 SETH DOEGE: I'm excited about it. I haven't thought about it being on the road or anything like that. I'm just excited to play again.

 Q. Do you watch a lot of games just for fun? Do you have a different perspective now from watching what quarterbacks do and kind of try to see the game a little bit different? 
 SETH DOEGE: Oh, yeah, for sure. When I'm watching the college football game I usually watch the quarterbacks obviously. But when I watch them, I would say I don't think Coach Brown would be happy with their foot work right there. The other day I was watching the Chicago Bears and I watched them play and I thought they kind of did something what we kind of do, and I was telling Coach Brown about it. He thought it was cool. 
 It's a different perspective. I'll sit there and rewind it and see what kind of coverage the secondary was in and how they beat it. So it's kind of fun. But I guess if somebody was watching it with me, they wouldn't understand, but...

 Q. Talk about Marquez a little bit. 
 SETH DOEGE: He's a very explosive player. He's a young guy, but I think he's doing well for a young guy. He's somebody we can get the ball to and he can make something happen with it. Like I said, he's very explosive, and one of the fastest guys on our team. 
 And he plays hard. It means a lot to him. I know this team means a lot to him. So he's a very athletic guy that we need to get the ball to.

 Q. Can you talk about being inside and how much more you're looking for? 
 SETH DOEGE: Yeah, it all comes down to our game plan and the reads and stuff like that. We don't necessarily say we're going to throw the ball to this guy on this play. It's kind of like we know what the defense gives us. But I think he's going to be a good asset for us inside. I think we needed a guy at that position that really could make some plays, I think. Marquez can do that.

 Q. What was your initial reaction of the bye week when you saw the schedule? 
 SETH DOEGE: I really didn't think about it. My total focus was on Texas State. It's one game a week for me so I didn't think about it too much. Like I said earlier, as a team we were like, man, we just played and now we're back to fall camp again. So we're ready to get rolling and getting in a routine of being in a season.

 Q. What do you see out of New Mexico that you're excited to attack? 
 SETH DOEGE: I think we match up well against them with our skill guys versus their secondary. So I think we can take advantage of that. I think they have really good defensive line players and they have a really good linebacker. But I think it's a mismatch with our skill guys and their secondary. So we should be able to win in that area. 
 But the thing is about us is we need to take what's given to us and not try to force things. I'm excited to see how our skill guys match up to their secondary, and if we can make some plays or not.

 Q. Do you think with Eric's performance last week he'll get a little more attention? 
 SETH DOEGE: Yeah, it's possible. If I turn on the film and saw a guy perform that well, I'd think about doing something different to him too. But at the same time you've got to respect the other guys on our team. I guess we'll see what happens. That's one thing that we need somebody else to step up so that doesn't happen to Eric.

 Q. How comfortable does he make you knowing that you have a play maker like that on your side? 
 SETH DOEGE: It's always comfortable for a quarterback to know that a guy's going to go get a ball maybe if it's not perfectly thrown. He's a reliable guy that the majority of the time he's going to get open for you, so it's very comforting.

 Q. Coach Brown said early in the game New Mexico's going to try to attack and force some turnovers. Is that going to make you want to play more conservative or attack down the field? 
 SETH DOEGE: For me it's just stay patient with my reads and really just take what they give us. It's not trying to force things. Not trying to make plays when they're not really there. You know what I mean? If they're going to come after us, we just need to take what they give us. If it's a shot down the field, we'll take a shot down the field. If it's a five-yard route and catch and throw, that's what we're going to do too. 
 We're not going to try to force things. We're going to try to execute our game plan and go from there.

 Q. How do you think the O-line did last week, and how are you going to see your relationship with that progress? 
 SETH DOEGE: Yeah, I think overall the entire offense is a little tight, including me. Once we got the first half of Texas State, but once everybody settled down, I think you saw the second half we really clicked and got the ball rolling. We were hard to stop. 
 I think they were proving every day just like everybody else on this team that's what we want. I think they're going to be a good group. I'm excited to be on the field with them again.

 Q. Talk about for some of the young guys, first time in a hotel on the road playing, talk about being on the road? 
 SETH DOEGE: You know, it's different. But they got their first taste of it in Texas State because we do go to a hotel even at home games, and we travel just like we would going away. 
 But it's not like we're going to A&M. It's a little different than going to A&M or something like that. So it's not going to be terrible. But at the same time you have to respect these guys because they're for sure not scared of us. 
 Like Coach Tuberville said, anybody can beat anybody on a given Saturday. So we need to be well prepared, and I think these young guys will take the experience and learn from it. But I think everybody's going to be ready to go.

 Q. Would you talk about Terry McDaniel and how he's progressed and obviously the major adjustment with him coming in so late in the camp? 
 SETH DOEGE: Right. It's just a relationship on the field that we've got to keep improving on. I think we're getting better. We play at a high tempo in the offense. It's kind of up to me and Terry how fast the tempo is getting everybody set, getting the offensive line set. Making sure all the skill guys are in the spot they need to be at. 
 So I think we're improving on that relationship, and I think it's going to keep getting better throughout the season.

 Q. You mentioned not looking past New Mexico. But is there a fear that some people would being so young and inexperienced? 
 SETH DOEGE: Right, you would think that, but the thing is we're just so excited to play again. It's almost like the season hasn't even started for us. So if it were, I think, in the middle of the season and you were to play a team maybe that wasn't so high profile or whatever, maybe you could look past it. 
 But we're so excited to play again that we're concentrating on this Saturday and New Mexico. We want to go out there and perform and kind of show our fans and the world not what we did in the first half against Texas State, but the entire game what we did in the second half, offensively, at least. 
 I know defensively they actually know what they're preparing for, and I think you're going to see a totally different team this time.

 Q. Did the coaches stress (Inaudible)? 
 SETH DOEGE: Yeah. We kind of talked about it over the bye week. We watched a lot of games on our own. The teams that lost were the teams that were penalized and the teams that fumbled, and the teams that beat themselves. Not necessarily people beating other people, it was more teams beating themselves. 
 We kind of got lucky against Texas State, putting the ball on the ground a couple of times and kind of getting it back. It's definitely something that we practice every day a ball security drill. There is a lot of emphasis on it. I think for us to be a great offense, we need to take care of the ball.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT