TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 29, 2011
Seth Doege
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. What's it mean to finally have a starting quarterback job? 
 SETH DOEGE: I'm excited. (Inaudible), and things I need to shape up before we start against Texas State. 

 Q. Were there points during the last four or five, six years that you thought this was never going to happen? 
 SETH DOEGE: You know, when the injuries happened in high school, it was kind of there was some doubt in my mind like at the time it was really hard and you didn't really get to see past the bad things. But Texas Tech stuck with me and kind of honored my scholarship and gave me motivation to some day live out my dream and be in the position that I am now. 

 Q. How exciting is it for it to finally be here game the atmosphere knowing it's justify five days away? 
 SETH DOEGE: Oh, yeah, definitely. I think I can speak on behalf of the team. We're ready to play a game. We practiced I guess 20-plus practices in fall camp and it's been a long camp, but I feel like it's been a good camp. 
 We're excited to start playing. I feel like we need these last three or four practices to clean some things up and get some things right, but I think we're ready to play. 

 Q. Think you'll have some first game jitters being a starter? 
 SETH DOEGE: I'm sure I will, but I think once I take the field, it will go away. I'm more excited than nervous. I think they've prepared myself for this moment for a long time, so I'm more excited than nervous. I don't think it will be any nervous jitters or kind of being scared to play. It's more exciting, and I'm ready for the challenge.

 Q. Does it help that you already had one start? How much did that start a couple years ago help you? 
 SETH DOEGE: Oh, yeah. When I was a freshman I wasn't as prepared as I am now. But what I learned from that is kind of you've got to let things happen. You've got to let your preparation take care of itself. You can't go out there and try to make plays happen. You just do what you're coached to do and do your job and trust your teammates. 
 That's one thing I kind of learned. I kind of went out there and was trying to make every play a big play or trying to score on every play, which, obviously couldn't happen. But that was one of the things that I learned from it. 

 Q. Are you guys going to keep it pretty basic offensively for the first several weeks and maybe bring out a few more tricks? 
 SETH DOEGE: You know, our offense is pretty basic. We have it a little in right now. We have it -- if you look at our, I guess play chart, you're kind of amazed on what we have in. 
 We can dress up a few plays here and there, but overall I think we're going to do what it takes to win the game. I think we can run the ball a lot better than we used to. I think we're going to run it a little more than people expect and fire some shots after that. 

 Q. You have a lot of depth on your offensive line and your skill players, does that give you a lot of confidence knowing you have a lot of experience around you? 
 SETH DOEGE: Yeah, it's definitely a confidence booster for me. Those guys all have game experience, and kind of the leaders of our offense. They're a good group. They gel well together. And with the skill position, there are some guys that have separated themselves from the pack during fall camp. 
 And I'm excited to get a chance to play, and I guess for the whole on offense kind of showcase what we've worked for these past spring and there in the summer and now fall. I think it's kind of built up and we're ready on to play.

 Q. You've seen the defense in practice, how much better is it this year? 
 SETH DOEGE: Coach Glasgow's done a great job. I think the leadership over there has taken a different role, and they've really stepped up and gotten some new players in that can really play. 
 It's definitely a big change from since I've been here. They're a lot better. I think they're going to be a very big part of this football team. 

 Q. You get a lot of depth on offense, but it seems like a lot of new faces as well. How nice is it to have all of your non-conference to start the season so you can kind of work together and gel together? 
 SETH DOEGE: Right, and you know, like you said, we lost a lot of skill position, a lot of stats. I think we're like the second lowest Big 12 team in production coming back. So these guys like me, or guys like Darrin Moore or guys you've never heard of and didn't do a lot of production last year really need to step up and fill those voids. 
 In Division 1 college football that's how it rolls. One guy leaves and the next guy has to step up and fill that void. It's just a challenge for us to step up and play and produce. 

 Q. Do you feel like you have more weapons at your disposal now? 
 SETH DOEGE: I think we have weapons all over the field. We have really -- we have some talented receivers, and we have some really, really talented running backs. I think the offensive line is going to do a really good job for us. I feel like we're very talented.
 We don't know what to expect? We don't have a lot of film on what the defensive coordinator does. We have film on where he's been and things like that, but it's one of those games where we kind of can concentrate on what we're going to do instead of what they're going to do. I think that's a good thing. Kind of concentrating on us getting better, and us being smooth and being able to to execute rather than worrying about how they're going to lineup. 

 Q. As far as film, do you watch Texas State film and the defensive coordinator's old film? Is that how it works? 
 SETH DOEGE: Yeah, we usually have like all the games that each opponent plays or whatever, and our old games or whatever it may be. But as of right now you kind of try to watch everywhere he's kind of been. And you watch a little of Texas State last year because you want to get a feel of how those guys play.

 Q. How tough was it to have your starting center go down that late in fall camp and to not have him there? 
 SETH DOEGE: One thing is I can feel for Keown, is I don't want anybody to ever have a knee problem, especially when he's a senior. I felt really bad. I keep him in my prayers. It was tough at first, because me and Keown developed a relationship. It's kind of up to the center and the quarterback, and we kind of had a relationship of how each other worked. When he went down, I felt really bad for him, and I hope the best for him. I hope he can get back to where he can play again. 
 But I think Terry's doing a really good job, and I think he's going to step up and be a really good center for us. 

 Q. Seems like Keown's a fiery guy. Are you missing that now? 
 SETH DOEGE: We still need to find somebody to step on the offensive line and be vocal. Keown was that guy, and I think those guys listened to him. He was a senior leader, and he was the center. Like you said, he was an upbeat guy and always had fun. He could relax a lot of people by saying a small joke or something like that. But I think one of those guys really need to step up and take that position as being the vocal leader. 

 Q. You've been challenged by Coach Tuberville to do the same thing. Does that put the onus more a little bit on you? 
 SETH DOEGE: Yeah, as a quarterback, you need to take a vocal leadership toward the offense. That's something I challenge myself with every day. In my mind I'm thinking I need to be vocal today. I need to make sure these guys are ready to go and excited to play. 
 So that's something that I need to continue working on and get better throughout the season. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT