TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 13, 2012
Seth Doege
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   Seth, you said this week that you guys were as capable as anybody else of having one of the best offenses in the country and had you to get everything going together.   Obviously it seemed like that happened today.   What went well for you guys offensively? 
SETH DOEGE:   Everybody doing their job.   Everybody selling out for the common goal and that is to win games.   I think everybody performed at a high level across the board today.   That was the difference between the pass games and this game.

Q.   I know you don't want to talk about yourself, but what is the satisfaction like when you have six touchdown passes?
SETH DOEGE:   I didn't really think about that too much.   The fact that made me excited was looking up at the scoreboard and seeing those numbers.   That's what internally made me a kid and enjoying the fans rushing the field.   I've always wanted to be part of something like that, so that was awesome too.

Q.   Who was more surprised by your running, you or Coach Tuberville?
SETH DOEGE:   I think everybody knew I had the capability to run and make plays with my feet.   I think sometimes I get so locked in down field that I don't really realize that I have a free lane to run ten yards and slide and get down.   But I think a couple times today I made some things happen with my feet, which I think got the crowd excited and got the team excited as well.

Q.   You guys had some wide receiver injuries and obviously Derreck and Jace stepped up big times for you?
SETH DOEGE:   Yeah, Jace is a big target and a big‑time play maker.   We knew that coming into the season that we were going to target him a lot.   He keeps making plays.   The thing about him is man, if you could watch the film, he just dominates people in the run game.   Makes them look like rag dolls. 
That is just something about Jace that he's coming along as a player, he's going to be a great player.   He already is a great player.   But he's going to be one of the top players in the nation some day.   The rest of the guys stepped up.   We had a lot of opportunities to go down field on these guys, and I think it was huge that we won, won on routes, did a really good job of catching the football, and yards after the catch.   So I think it was really good to see those guys perform at a high level.

Q.   Could you talk about the protection up front?   It seemed that you had time to do what you wanted to do today?
SETH DOEGE:   Yeah, it's huge for a quarterback to sit back there.   It's almost like skelly.   If you don't know what skelly is, it's 7 on 7.   When you don't have a pass‑rush, it's a lot easier to sit back there and take your time going through your reads.   Identifying safeties and what the defense is trying to do. 
It was huge that the offensive line played so well.   We had a lot of opportunities to get the ball down field, and if they play the way they played today, it's just going to continue and we're going to make plays.   We have so many weapons that we can expose at any time.   As long as we have the time to do it, we're a dangerous unit.

Q.   What do you say to the folks that didn't give you all a chance and thought West Virginia was just going to come in here and run up the score? 
SETH DOEGE:   I don't have anything to say about that.   We're going to continue to improve as a football team.   The only people in sitting in here on Sundays and at practice, those are the only people that we care about what they think.   We believe that we're a good football team.   We believe that if we continue to get better we've got a shot at this, and that's what we're going to do.

Q.   Did you guys gain confidence on the defense? 
SETH DOEGE:   Yeah, we have a lot of confidence in our defense.   It's totally different from last year.   If we got down or whatever the case may be, we might have pressed a little bit.   But we know that our defense is playing at a high level right now, and I was just blown away by their performance today. 
I think it goes back to the leadership.   The senior leadership on that side of the football is unbelievable.   They've taken that defense to a higher level of play.   So they've done a really good job.   It helps an offense, because we don't have to press if we're struggling, and we know that we're going to get the ball back when we're executing and making plays. 
It's good to have a lot of confidence in our defense right now.

Q.   Knowing how good their offense is did you feel pressure early on to take advantage of every opportunity? 
SETH DOEGE:   That's kind of our MO.   We want to score on every drive regardless.   We knew that obviously they're one of the top offenses in the country.   We did have confidence in our defense.   We thought they were going to play well.   But we did think that we were going to have to score points to win this game. 
We scored points and our defense played even better than we thought they were going to do.   I think a lot of guys on defense stepped up.   It's just one of those things that as a senior leader, I'm so proud of those guys.   Those guys did a great job, and really helped us.   You see the points on the scoreboard, the 49 or whatever, and how the offense played so well.   But it helps us that much more when those guys play at a high level like they did today.

Q.   What do you take out of this win personally? 
SETH DOEGE:   Shoot, how good we can be.   How good we can be.   If we practice and prepare like we do every single week and come out here with a lot of energy like we did today and not holding anything back, pulling the trigger at every position, we can be a special group. 
Our goal is to win that Crystal bowl.   That just one to check mark off the list, and now we've got to get ready for TCU.

Q.   Did you know you all were putting in the game plan here in the week that it would be that pass in the first half.   There were a lot of stretches there where it seemed like you were passing on every play?
SETH DOEGE:   We knew there was opportunity there to throw the football.   I think we threw it well in practice and completed a lot of balls and caught balls well in practice.   So we knew there was opportunity there.   We knew if we threw and protect and caught and ran really well, it could have been a big day for us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT