TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 8, 2012
Seth Doege
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   Seth, taking a look at the film, what did you guys as an offense take away from that game on Saturday? 
SETH DOEGE:   We played really well and exactly how we wanted to in the first half other than not scoring touchdowns and settling for field goals.   But after the first drive in the second half when we didn't score, it seems like we took a downward spiral and never could really catch back up.   That is something that we need to learn from. 
As an offense, we need to be a threat every single time we step out on to the field, regardless of the score, regardless the time of the game.   Just knowing that we needed to score points every time we touched the football.   It's not realistic that you're going to score every time you have it, but that's the mindset we have.   And I think we lost that a little bit in the second half.

Q.   Would you have liked to have a little more balance against Oklahoma and run the ball to complement the passing game? 
SETH DOEGE:   It doesn't really matter to me.   I want whatever the coaches feel like we need to do to win games.   If that's to throw the ball, I want to throw the ball.   If we need to run it a little more, then let's run it.   Whatever they think is the best way to win football games.

Q.   Going back to the downward spiral.   Is that kind of a function where you need somebody to be the emotional lead ore the sideline to rally the troops or do you see that as your job? 
SETH DOEGE:   I think it's my job.   I think my play wasn't great in the second half, and they deserve better from their quarterback.   It wasn't the fact that mentally I was out of the game or anything.   I just didn't perform, and I think if I perform, I think those guys will catch on and understand that our mindset is to score.   That's something that doesn't need to happen again.

Q.   What did you see on the 4th and 5 with one of your sacks?
SETH DOEGE:   I was good to throw the ball to Jace.   He was open.   You can look at that and you could argue I could have thrown it maybe a split second faster and I wouldn't have been hit.   I don't know if I would have gotten it off still.   But we were going to have the first down.

Q.   What did you see as sort of‑‑ you talked about the two field goals in the first half.   Was there a common theme that made you guys struggle to finish those drives? 
SETH DOEGE:   I think it was just one thing here and there, whether it be a bad throw or a missed block or maybe a missed cut, whatever it may be.   We just kind of stalled out.   We had really good drives going on all those possessions we scored points on.   But in a game like this, especially when they're scoring touchdowns and converting third downs, we've got to convert third downs and score touchdowns.   It's just to keep us in the game. 
I think if we would have scored touchdowns and there and come out in the second half on the first drive and scored points, whether it had been a field goal or a touchdown, we would have been right in the game, and it would have been a different ballgame.

Q.   At any point did you feel any pressure like you guys were chasing, so you got away from what you guys wanted to do before the game actually started?   Did you feel like you were chasing? 
SETH DOEGE:   No, like I said, we did exactly what we wanted in the first half.   We kept the ball away from them.   We kept their defense on the field for a really long time to get them tired.   We were right in the position that we wanted to be in.   We just didn't really take advantage of the opportunity in the second half.

Q.   Can you talk about West Virginia a little bit and what you've seen?   Does it kind of make you salivate a little bit with the way all these offenses have performed against their defense? 
SETH DOEGE:   I mean, you never know.   They may do something totally different to us.   But from what I've seen, there is an opportunity there to move the ball and score points.   Regardless what defense we're going against, that is our goal as an offense.   We feel like we have the talent and the coaches and everything in place to be one of the most explosive offenses in the country.   That is the way we approach every game.   Nothing is going to change. 
We've prepared.   We've practiced better than I've ever been a part of around here.   It's just a matter of time that we get it all together and perform on Saturday.

Q.   Is there even more of a premium though on getting points because you know what will be on the other side of their offense? 
SETH DOEGE:   I think that's every Big 12 game, really.   There are going to be points scored.   Somebody will have to score points to win games.   Geno Smith's a great player.   He's playing at a high level.   He's got his offense rolling right now. 
But we've got faith in our defense.   They feel confident that they can play, and we feel confident that we're going to put points up.   That is kind of the MO of this league.   You've got to score points to win, and we're excited about it.   We're excited about the opportunity, and we welcome the challenge.

Q.   How confident are you in your defense going into this week? 
SETH DOEGE:   I'm very confident.   I don't think they need to get discouraged.   They need to go into the game knowing they're playing maybe the best offense in the country right now, and the best offense in the country is going to score some points.   So they don't need to get discouraged during the game. 
I think they just need to continue to play hard and do what they do because they've been a big factor in why we've been winning games, and I think they played pretty well against OU.   They kept us in the game and allowed us as a team to come back and try to take advantage of the opportunities to win the game.   But I think they're playing at a high level right now, and I think they'll do it again on Saturday.

Q.   How do you think you've played after two Big 12 games?   Evaluate your own performance? 
SETH DOEGE:   I think I've played two solid halves of each game, and then two average, and a poor half.   With the first half being average in Iowa State, and the second half against Oklahoma being pretty poor.   But I just need to relax and put four quarters together, and I think we'll be fine.

Q.   You're obviously an intense and competitive guy as we know.   When you have a game that you don't necessarily finish the way you want to, how do you handle that with the days following to get back on track? 
SETH DOEGE:   It motivates me.   I don't really care what people say or their opinions about me.   My teammates trust me.   They believe in me, and I believe in myself.   So I'm just motivated to get back out there.   I'm motivated for the next practice to come so I can make that throw that I missed or I can see that read that I missed or whatever it may be, something where I can just go out there and execute what I didn't do on Saturday and understand that I can do it. 
I had confidence going into OU.   Some things didn't roll my way, two deflected passes up in the air.   That is the most helpless feeling as a quarterback knowing that that's anybody's ball.   So some things didn't roll my way, but I learned from it and moved on.   I'm confident in this football team.   I'm confident in my abilities and I think we're going to win a lot of games and surprise a lot of people around here.

Q.   Going back to West Virginia, what kind of opportunity is it after last week to get a Top 5 team to come in with a chance to upset? 
SETH DOEGE:   That's right.   We can't dwell on this loss.   There is another team coming in and they might be even better.   So we've got to prepare and practice just the way we've been doing it.   Having enthusiasm, being excited to play and getting ready.   I think we prepared really well throughout the season, and we need to continue to do that, continue to get better in practice, and understand that it's going to be a big one on Saturday.   We look forward to it. 
We definitely don't want to have the showing that we did this last Saturday, and I think that will motivate the guys and we'll get better as a football team and be ready to play.

Q.   Talk about the first loss of the season.   How has the attitude been around the team in these last couple of days?
SETH DOEGE:   I think everybody was disappointed, but nobody was discouraged.   Everybody knew this was a tough league, and maybe one or two losses were capable of happening.   But at the same time, guys understand that we've got a tough stretch of conference play, and we can't let one game affect the next. 
Guys are excited about trying to get better.   Guys are excited about the opportunity we have this weekend in West Virginia, so it's going to be a good week, and I'm excited about it.

Q.   Have you seen a scheme like the one West Virginia runs before? 
SETH DOEGE:   I think we've seen every time of defense you could see in these first five games.   So far what I've watched on film on West Virginia, it's nothing new.   There is opportunity there.   But like I said, they could come in and show us something totally different and play totally different, but we're going to practice, and we're going to worry about us and try to get better.

Q.   How difficult of a day did Eric Ward have?   What are some of the things you guys are going to do to try to bring him up a little bit more? 
SETH DOEGE:   I wouldn't say he had a difficult day.   I think we were expecting to see was a little different than what they showed, and it had taken some time to adjust.   I think I should have given him a little more opportunity to make plays for me, and so it's not all on him.   It's more on me than anything.   He's going to be a big player for us.   He's done a really good job.   He's practiced really well, and he plays really hard. 
There is not really much you need to learn for Eric.   He needs to just go out there and be him, and understand he's one of the best players we have on this team, and he's going to make a lot of plays for us.

Q.   Not that you directly have to square off against Geno Smith.   But as a quarterback, do you get excited about kind of outgun slinging the other? 
SETH DOEGE:   I try not to worry about it too much because I don't want to worry about what they do on offense.   I really don't.   I worry about what we, and what we can do on this offense, and what we can do on this side of the ball.   It's going to be a fun challenge to play him.   But at the same time I'm more worried about what we can do than what he does.

Q.   The interception that was made, what were you thinking as that play unfolded and what did you see on film afterwards?
SETH DOEGE:   He was blitzing.   It was a corner blitz.   Had soft coverage to Eric Ward.   He had a six‑yard hitch route, so I knew that I was going to be open.   It was the same look I got in practice on Wednesday, and I hit the hitch route.   He just made a great play.   I threw it hard, too.   He just jumped up and snagged it. 
I don't know how else to explain it.   It was just a great play on his part.   I was doing exactly what I did in practice, which worked out.   I guess these guys are a little bigger players in the Big 12, and he just made a great play on me.

Q.   You mentioned a moment ago they showed some things that were different than what you all expected to see.   Can you elaborate on that? 
SETH DOEGE:   They showed some different blitzes that we didn't practice for.   We practiced‑‑ they played a lot of man coverage, which we did practice for, and there were some opportunities that we missed in man coverage, whether it be me missing the throw or not pulling the trigger or us not getting off of man coverage, whatever it may be.   There was just a little bit different schemes that we weren't prepared for, different blitzes.   But we adjusted a little bit.   I think we could have adjusted better, but that's in the past.   Ready to move forward now.

Q.   You stayed in the pock tet seemed a little bit better this week than did you last week.   Do you think you did a better job staying in the pocket? 
SETH DOEGE:   Yeah, that's something that I wanted to work on throughout last week was I think there were some opportunities for Iowa State.   If Iowa State if I would have just slid in the pocket maybe a foot ride or foot up instead of taking off and trying to make a play, just staying in there and going through my reads, there would have been some big play opportunities for Iowa State.   That was big, and that is something that I wanted to work on. 
I think there were opportunities for me to maybe escape and try to make plays with my feet against Oklahoma.   But other than that, I felt good with my pocket presence. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT