OKLAHOMA CITY THUNDER MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 24, 2018
Dennis Schroder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Dennis, obviously we know you have a great respect for the Hawks' organization and for your time there and your development there.  When you're looking forward and when you look at Oklahoma City and when you realized that you were coming to the team, were there things about the organization and the team that you thought, man, maybe there are some new opportunities for my game to evolve here, there are some things I could do here that maybe I couldn't do before?  
DENNIS SCHRODER: I think, first off, to be in this organization, to see every day Russell Westbrook, Paul George practicing, see what they do off the court, on the court, I think was a big thing for me.  You know, and the organization, I met everyone.  I met the coaching staff, I met the front office, all the people, and it's like a big family.  I'm excited to be here and be a part of this organization.   
 Q.  Dennis, you mentioned Russell just now, and I think we've heard that Russell is a guy that you kind of tailored some of your game around.  What is it like to play with him, be on the floor with him?  We saw you guys played pickup together this summer.  What has that experience been like for you and how do you think it's going to fit with you two on the court together?  
DENNIS SCHRODER: I think when we played in LA, UCLA, it was me, Raymond, Russell and Paul George, and it was pretty fast.  It was really tough to guard us.  That's what really excites me right now to play with Russ and Paul George, to be out there with them I think means a lot for me.   
 Q.  With the Hawks, in the last couple seasons, you started, but the last time you didn't come off the bench you guys had a really good team.  I think it was like a 60-win team and you were playing against a lot of second units.  How do you feel about being a guy who comes off the bench again and is able to play against second units?  
DENNIS SCHRODER: I never like talked about my situation, how it's going to be.  All I know is whatever it takes for the team to win games, I do it.  If I'm coming off the bench, if I start, whatever it is, I'll be ready for that challenge because I think we've got a special group this year, and we can surprise a lot of teams.   
 Q.  With the defensive identity of the Thunder, with a lot of these great guys that can really lock down, do you feel like you as a defensive player have the freedom to really up your intensity, as well, and really just fit in with this new defensive identity?  Obviously you've had stretches where you were incredibly defensive.  Do you feel like this is a great opportunity for you to come in and really buy into that identity?  
DENNIS SCHRODER: For sure.  My first four years got me my playing time defensively, and my fifth year, the motivation for the defensive end because I had so much to do on the offensive end, so I took a step back on the defensive end, and this year, like I said, it's a new chapter, and I'm ready, and yeah, like I said, on both ends of the floor, I want to be a big part of the team.   
 Q.  Steven mentioned that you guys had done some of your pre-draft workouts together, and then you spent the last four or five years playing against him.  He seems like sort of an unpopular player to play against but a really popular player to play with.  What's the difference in the two that you can tell?  How much of a sort of an enemy is he when he's your opponent but you're glad he's on your team?  
DENNIS SCHRODER: I remember his screens still.  He's a good screener, good roller.  I think I watched so many games last year when Russ played pick-and-roll with him, he catches almost every ball and finishes every ball, and I think it's an honor to play with a player like Steven Adams, and I think Russell thinks the same way.   
 Q.  Why did you cut your hair?  
DENNIS SCHRODER: I had to.  It's a new start, but don't worry, the gold parts is coming back.  My hair just needs to grow faster.   
 Q.  When can you tell us about your current legal situation in Atlanta?  I know that you were up for a potential battery charge there; what can you tell us about that?  
DENNIS SCHRODER: Appreciate you for the question.  I knew it was going to come.  It's in process still.  Nothing to worry about.  But like I said, I'm ready to be here in Oklahoma and get it started.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT