AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: BLUE JAYS VS ROYALS
October 17, 2015
Alex Gordon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You guys haven't seen a whole lot of David Price over the years, but you did see him a couple of times earlier this year in a span of a week.  What are your thoughts about him and if he looks any different now that he's a Blue Jays?  
ALEX GORDON: A great pitcher, powerful stuff, comes right at you.  We faced him in Detroit and at home.  He pitched pretty well against us here last time.  So it's going to be quite the challenge.  But we've got our ace going, too, so hopefully he can match him inning by inning.   
 Q.  How much attention do you pay as an outfielder as when you're on the base path, like Bautista or even when you're at the plate with someone like Kevin Pillar, knowing how aggressive you can be on the base path?  
ALEX GORDON: They have a great outfield.  You've seen Pillar throughout the season make unbelievable plays all over the place.  We know that he can cover some ground.  And then also know Bautista, if a ball is hit sharply in the outfield, to right field, you've got to be careful.  I think he takes a lot of pride in that, and you can see that in the way he plays and the way he throws out baserunners, he enjoys doing it.  We know about his arm and we know to be maybe not quite as aggressive against Bautista than other guys.   
 Q.  Ned was just in here and talked about you and Luke being here from the beginning and the evolution from a bad club to a championship club.  Can you talk about that?  
ALEX GORDON: It's been a while, but ever since Dayton Moore came here, he's done a great job of drafting quality players and the right players, and developing them through the system, and we knew it wasn't going to be just one guy.  I was, not fortunate enough, but was sent down and actually got to see the Moustakases, the Hosmers, and the Perezes in the Minor Leagues, and knew they were going to come up quickly and be something special.  Gelling with some of the guys that were already here, it's worked out pretty well.   
And Dayton has done a great job of doing that over the years.   
 Q.  Have you ever played with a player as tough as Salvy?  
ALEX GORDON: Not really.  Catching is a tough, tough job, as you all know.  But the way he goes about his business every day, day-in and day-out, never asking for days off, it's pretty special.  And he's not a small guy, so he's carrying a lot of weight and moving around pretty well.   
So he's pretty special, and you saw last night, just went off the hand with the bat and getting back up and doing it all over again.   
 Q.  How do you think you're doing at the plate right now, especially in terms of how you've come back from your injury and shaking off the rust and getting into the groove and all that?  
ALEX GORDON: It was tough to miss -- it's always tough to miss time during the year, when you're not able to swing or see a lot of pitching, to come back and just get right back into it.  I felt like I did a pretty good job of staying in shape, staying game ready.  I had my struggles a little bit when I came back.   
But overall right now I feel pretty good and feel comfortable at the plate and I'm seeing the ball good.  I've been here for about a month and a half since the injury, I finally started to feel like I'm back in the groove.   
 Q.  Just the last couple of games for your entire pitching staff, 16 innings of shutout baseball in the playoff against these offense.  What's it like to play defense behind them and watch them work and how much of a boost does that give you guys when you don't have to score eight or nine runs to win a game?  
ALEX GORDON: It's been great.  Pitching really wins games, and our defense has been helping them out, too, but the pitching has been outstanding.  I really haven't had to do too much in the outfield, just stand and watch them do what they do.   
Last night was pretty special with Volqy throwing 96, 97, with that movement.  It's going to be hard to hit, especially with any lineup.  As good as these guys are, that's what made it even I think more special.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT