CHINA OPEN
October 4, 2014
Andrea Hlavackova
Shuai Peng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







PENG‑HLAVACKOVA/Black‑Mirza
      6‑4, 6‑4

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English. 

Q.   How does it feel to win? 
    ANDREA HLAVACKOVA:   I'm really, really happy we got the win on the second tournament we ever play together.   Especially for Shuai, I'm really happy that it was in Beijing in front of a home crowd.   I could feel on the court that it was very special for her, and even better for me. 
    SHUAI PENG:   Yeah, I was really exciting because also is the second tournament for me and Andrea, we never play each other.   In the first set up 4‑0, I was so tight.   The moment, I was really, really tight.   I like could not swing the ball. 
    It's really thanks Andrea, she talk to me, she smiling there, making me loose.   After the match in the locker room, we say, It's not bad idea we play here.   Also her first time in Beijing.   So it's a really good memory, I think. 

Q.   Since the tournament here in Beijing started, have you noticed improvement in your play as you've gone through it all?
    ANDREA HLAVACKOVA:   Yeah, I feel like we improved from Wuhan because there we had three matches.   I feel like here we played every match very well.   That's a great, great feeling. 
    SHUAI PENG:   Yeah, me, too.   Before the Wuhan, we never practice each other, and only play one time singles, maybe one time doubles.   We know nothing about each other. 
    Then start from the Wuhan, new partnership.   We play together and I think it's better and better, yeah. 

Q.   Do you have some more stories you can share about how you became partners?   What's your comments to each other in these two weeks? 
    ANDREA HLAVACKOVA:   I asked Shuai because I had nobody for Wuhan.   She had nobody for Wuhan.   That's how we got together.   Then since I was coming to Asia only for doubles participation, I wanted to play with the same partner both tournaments.   In the end she agreed to play both, and I'm very happy she did because the second was the better one. 
    SHUAI PENG:   In the beginning, I don't play Asia Games.   She come to me, Do you want to play Wuhan together?   She say, What side you play?   I said, I play right.   She said, Good, I play left. 
    I decide play with her.   It's going, it's okay.   It's not bad idea.
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese, please. 

Q.   You two are playing really well in doubles.   You have really good results.   In two weeks as partners you won a title.   What is a quick way to create better chemistry? 
    ANDREA HLAVACKOVA:   (In English.)   I think it works well because Shuai is playing on the backhand side the whole year, I play on the forehand side the whole year.   We didn't have to change anything there.   Our games clicked well, which you never know before you get on the court.   We didn't know.   We are happy we saw it on the court that it clicks well, and we enjoyed every moment. 
    SHUAI PENG:   (Through translation.)   Before Wuhan, we didn't know each other very well.   From the first match and then matches after, we are familiar with styles of play, and our partnership has become much better when we played in Wuhan. 
    Before every match we didn't know how we could play together.   In the quarterfinal and semifinal we felt really good.   We didn't really expect we could get the title in Beijing.   We were looking forward to some success. 
    I know Andrea has been really good in doubles, and we didn't know if we would click together.   At the very beginning of this year I had another partner.   At the end of the year I changed to a new partner and it's feeling very good. 

Q.   SHUAI PENG mentioned before Wuhan you didn't know each other.   In Beijing after this victory I'm sure you're happy.   SHUAI PENG, are you taking your friend to share some good food after this victory? 
    SHUAI PENG:   (Through translation.)   Well, this is Andrea's first time in Beijing.   I'm so happy.   Before she arrived in Beijing, she didn't know how big this competition is.   She was really surprised that this China Open is a very high‑level competition.   This is her first time in Beijing. 
    It's a very special experience for me also.   Tomorrow both of us are going to Tainjin, preparing for the Tainjin Open.   Probably after the press conference we'll hang out a little bit. 

Q.   Do you have plans for a long‑term partnership or a short‑term partnership?   SHUAI PENG, in the future, how will you balance your singles and doubles matches? 
    ANDREA HLAVACKOVA:   (In English.)   We definitely needed to play matches before we talk about future partnership.   It's nice that we played very well.   Now we have to look at the schedules and think about it.   We both have plans for next year.   We have to talk about it probably in next few days.   We will see. 
    Even if it's not a long‑term relationship, I would definitely like to play with her again, maybe next year here in Asia.   It was very special. 
    SHUAI PENG:   (Through translation.)   Probably in a few days, probably after the Tainjin Open, we'll sit down and talk with our coaches, talk about our plans for the next year, about our schedule in doubles. 
    For now I'm playing more matches in singles and doubles.   For doubles I will focus on some big competitions and matches.   While I think we should have a long‑term view, this is actually is a very good beginning for a long‑term plan.   But, indeed, we don't really have a plan.   We haven't had time to sit down and discuss it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT