U.S. OPEN
September 7, 2013
Andrea Hlavackova
Lucie Hradecka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







HLAVACKOVA‑HRADECKA/Dellacqua‑Barty
      6‑7, 6‑1, 6‑4

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Obviously hasn't been your best you're year up to this point.   What made this tournament possible?
    ANDREA HLAVACKOVA:   I think it was very good that, you know, we got ourselves together also health‑wise, because Lucie was injured a lot during the year.   That was important. 
    And we clicked right away from the first match very well, even though we had no matches to prepare for US Open.   I mean, it's been a great wave we have been riding these two weeks.   I cannot describe how I feel.

Q.   How much of that win over Venus and Serena yesterday gets you prepared mentally, confidence‑wise, in dodging bullets at the net making it quicker?
    ANDREA HLAVACKOVA:   For today? 

Q.   Yeah.
    ANDREA HLAVACKOVA:   Honestly, I didn't think about it at all today.   For me, it didn't help much for today.   It helped us to get through, and that's all. 
    Yesterday was a completely different match than today.   We just knew that were strong even in tough moments, so that's what we used today, I think.
    LUCIE HRADECKA:   Yeah.

Q.   You not only won this for yourself, but won this for your country, the Czech Republic.   It's 4:00 a.m. over there when you finished.   Some texts coming in.   Were they watching?   Starting to celebrate? 
    LUCIE HRADECKA:   Yeah, definitely.   I got a lot of the message.   One was our Fed Cup captain that he write me.   Okay, now we can go sleep, so well done (smiling). 
    I think a lot of people watch the TV, watch the screen, and I think a lot of people is happy, are happy, because got the Grand Slam.   It's for like our small country something big. 

Q.   That match was up for grabs until the last two games.   What happened those last two games?   What did you say to one another?
    ANDREA HLAVACKOVA:   I don't think we talked much.   It was more about like looking at each other and trusting each other on that return game.   You know, obviously at a close game you need me to get something on the deuce side to give her a chance to close it. 
    First she didn't close it but then she did.   I trusted her on that game because I knew she's been having great games yesterday, and I was believing that she will play through today again.
    Then I was confident on my serve.

Q.   Going back to the semi just briefly, how important was that win for you?   Obviously one of the best teams.   They have won like 12 Grand Slams together and they beat you at Wimbledon and Olympic finals, as well.   That had to be a big one to finally get. 
    LUCIE HRADECKA:   I think it was very important, because if we lost in semifinal we cannot play the final, so definitely it was important (smiling). 
    ANDREA HLAVACKOVA:   I think it was a great, you know, extra for this tournament to also beat the Williams sisters, because it's something special what didn't happen in our career yet.   We had chances to face them so many times.
    It's something like on top of the Grand Slam trophy, you know, that we wanted really going through the best teams out there.   We had the toughest draw possible from the first round where we were beating players who beat us on another Grand Slam. 
    Beating Petrova‑Srebotnik was extremely tough match.   I would never take that for granted.   Going against Williams sisters, it's amazing.

Q.   Are you going to have room in your luggage for both trophies?
    ANDREA HLAVACKOVA:   I remember from last year they send them, so I'm totally fine (smiling).   Even if I wouldn't I would pay extra luggage for trophy like that.

Q.   Yesterday after you won the mixed doubles with Max, you said you were holding off the celebration.   You weren't going to have any of your dad's beer, who is a brewmaster.   What about tonight?   What's ahead?
    ANDREA HLAVACKOVA:   Tonight we gonna probably go to our friend's club and really celebrate, because so far, after all of our successes, we never had a chance to directly celebrate the great results.
    So today I said to Lucie, We're going no matter what.   I don't care your flight is in the morning.   We're just going go there and spin it.

Q.   Dance the night away?
    ANDREA HLAVACKOVA:   Yeah, yeah. 

Q.   After last year, you lost the final against Sara and Roberta.   Lucie, how did you feel that the mixed doubles title is half Andrea's?   Andrea is playing differently?   Step on the court differently and the crucial moment playing differently today or it helps?
    LUCIE HRADECKA:   I think this time I have to say, Andy, how she felt on court, I felt she's confident.   She trust herself on serve.   I know if she will good serve I can do my job on the net, like the fake or go for it. 
    So I think we work like great team today. 

Q.   You had a long wait today, long matches, delays.   What was that like?   What were you doing to relax to stay focused to make the time go by?
    ANDREA HLAVACKOVA:   Well, I said to Lucie today before the doubles that it is kind of a change for us, because we have been waiting whole day.   There was no weather issue, so we knew that we're gonna go play late, and we were ready. 
    We went to warm up twice, which helped us in the beginning of the match to be really ready to go out there.   I was feeling a bit tired today from yesterday's two matches, big matches, and we knew that the atmosphere would be a bit different than last night against Williams sisters when the crowd was huge and pumped.
    But we made the crowd pumping in the end with the close result.   That actually helped. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT