HONG KONG OPEN
December 7, 2013
Stuart Manley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Impressive round of golf, I was with you all the way around and you looked very much into control and every shot seems to be very much straight at the flag. 
STUART MANLEY:   Yeah, it was, pretty much from the first hole onwards.   Every iron shot was literally right down the pin.   A good day on the greens it could have been a really low round, which is was disappointing not to capitalise but I feel very confident the way I'm playing so really excited about tomorrow.

Q.   I guess a big thing is you left a few out there, but at the end of the day, you're never going to make too many bogeys once you hit it so close. 
STUART MANLEY:   That's the thing.   I got really unlucky on 16, that pin position there, I've landed in the perfect position and there's two sprinklers there, just hit the sprinkler and it's gone at the back of the green and left myself a real tough 2‑putt.   That was disappointing, because that ball was going stiff, you know.   That would have bounced forward and released right by the pin.   That was disappointing.   But to bounce back from the next hole with a birdie, that was nice. 

Q.   13, as well, you missed one shot today; that was the second shot with the 3‑wood.   What happened there? 
STUART MANLEY:   That was the only bad swing of the day really.   I kind of came over it, pulled it left and left myself a nasty chip, really, short‑sided myself.   Got a good ruling, got a bit of relief and hit a great, great chip and a good putt to finish.   So to make four was pleasing.

Q.   Saying that you will be confident going into the last round is an understatement.   I guess you have a same approach for the golf course tomorrow?
STUART MANLEY:   Absolutely.   The first two rounds were exactly the same.   I aimed at every pin and hit my target.   So I'm not going to change anything.   I'm loving it at the moment.   Nothing to lose.   Just go out there, get it done.   Great position to be in, loving it, perfect. 

Q.   You're a very happy man, aren't you, to see your name at the top of the board? 
STUART MANLEY:   Yeah, I wanted to be leading after three rounds today.   Wanted to be last group, so I'm delighted.

Q.   What's your experience of leading tournaments? 
STUART MANLEY:   Not much to be honest.   I've led quite a few times on Challenge Tour, so hopefully that will keep me in good stead for tomorrow.

Q.   Does it change you?   Do you have a different approach to Sunday? 
STUART MANLEY:   Not really.   Get a few nerves early on, I did today.   But if I can just be committed to the golf shot, I'll be fine, just enjoy it. 

Q.   What would a victory mean to you? 
STUART MANLEY:   It would mean the world, really.   Obviously there's a lot of golf to go yet.   Just going to enjoy tomorrow and see what happens.   But you can play your schedule, got an exemption and to be a winner on The European Tour would be great.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT