HONG KONG OPEN
December 6, 2013
Stuart Manley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You must be pretty happy today.   Go through your round, please?  
STUART MANLEY:   Yeah, pretty happy.   Started off a little bit slow, a little bit scrappy but as the round went on, I putted nicely, played great again.   Controlled the ball, distance control was very good and just made some putts, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Of course, no player likes to finish with a bogey, but go through that, the second shot ended up just where you didn't want to being.   
STUART MANLEY:   Couldn't have ended up in a worse place.   Had a good yardage actually with my sand wedge and just caught it just a fraction heavy, just a fraction and that was enough for it to come off the front into the water.   So yeah, not the finish I wanted, but I'll take it.   
   
 Q.   Pretty fair to say that you're happy to be in the position that you are; how do you look at the weekend coming forward?   
STUART MANLEY:   Yeah, I'm pretty happy.   Just looking forward to it, another 36 holes, just be positive, keep doing what I'm doing, exciting times, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on round two.   
STUART MANLEY:   Really enjoyable.   I started a bit scrappy but after the first few holes I played lovely, hit the ball much better than yesterday, made some good putts.   Just played lovely.  
   
 Q.   Nice purple patch, as well, that got you right up to the top.   
STUART MANLEY:   Yeah, 17, 18,1, especially 18 and 1, they are very tough holes, so even par on those holes are good.   So to make birdie, I was over the moon.  
   
 Q.   What are the nerves down to?   I'm sure it's obvious; you said it was a nervous start, a little edgy.   
STUART MANLEY:   I don't know why, maybe a little too much coffee at the start.   I was a bit shaky, I don't know why.   Once I got into the swing of things, I was feeling pretty good to be fair.  
   
 Q.   Do you have to tell yourself, only halfway?  
STUART MANLEY:   Yeah, exactly, there's another 36 holes and a lot of golf to go and a lot of good players around me.   I'll have to play well this weekend.   
It's my first time to play this golf course.   A little bit tired after the long haul flights the last few weeks.   So to be maybe leading is great.  
   
 Q.   We touched on this, but one of those courses that immediately meets the eye?   
STUART MANLEY:   Yeah, there's a lot of 3‑woods.   Hit my 3‑wood really nicely so I can shape it around the dogleg and it does fit my eye, so I like it.  
   
 Q.   Presumably it's hard to actually gauge but the scoring seems a bit more modest than it has from previous years.   
STUART MANLEY:   Yeah, maybe because the greens are so quick perhaps and there's a lot of rough around the greens, so quite tricky this year.  
   
 Q.   Thoughts into the weekend?   
STUART MANLEY:   Just try to enjoy it, stick to what I'm doing and stick to my routines and just enjoy.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT