HONG KONG OPEN
December 5, 2013
Stuart Manley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about your start to the championship?
STUART MANLEY:   It's pretty solid I think.   I putted very nicely today.   Kept the ball in play most of the day.   Took my chances.   Obviously my first time to play here, so, yeah, delighted.

Q.   Tricky course, one that really requires precision?
STUART MANLEY:   Absolutely, yeah, it is very tricky off the tee and second shots are quite demanding, as well.   You have to stay below the holes because the greens are quite quick this week.   It's tough.

Q.   We've seen a lot of low scores in the past but I gather the greens are particularly fiery and bouncy this time around?
STUART MANLEY:   They are firm and they are quick.   You have to position the ball well, stay below the hole and hopefully take your chances from there.

Q.   What were your expectations coming in? 
STUART MANLEY:   Be in contention come Sunday, you know, give myself a chance, play well.   I've been playing okay lately, so, yeah, why not.

Q.   Absolutely, there ought to be some confidence with the way you've been playing?
STUART MANLEY:   Absolutely.   I didn't play that bad that week, although I missed the cut in South Africa, but just didn't putt well.   Today I putted lovely, so if I can putt well this week and hit it okay, I should be all right.

Q.   How many times are you being asked about the 1 followed by the 11?
STUART MANLEY:   Yeah, quite a lot, actually.   Got a couple of nicknames going on but after a couple of weeks I think it will die down.

Q.   But you're happy to share them for the time being? 
STUART MANLEY:   It was a great experience.   It was a 1 and 11, I wouldn't have swapped it, it was great.   I had a great week. 

Q.   And I gather you were telling that tale, as well, on the Hong Kong Harbour front yesterday; nice to actually see something of the city you're in? 
STUART MANLEY:   Exactly, and the camera guys were asking a few questions and just to be in that location, as well, pretty special.

Q.   You like Hong Kong?
STUART MANLEY:   I love it.   It's a beautiful city.   First time I really kind of had a sightseeing day yesterday and that was nice.   We don't do that enough here because normally it's golf course, hotel, back and forth and we don't really see enough.   But yesterday was lovely, yeah.

Q.   Does that help to be involved in a sense and get a greater enjoyment about it?
STUART MANLEY:   I think so, otherwise it gets a little stale and boring sometimes, golf course, hotel.   It's nice to freshen it up and it breaks up‑‑ I've been on the road a long time now, my seventh week, and just to see some of the city, it's nice.

Q.   How are the energy levels? 
STUART MANLEY:   Kind of low at the moment but I'm a fairly fit lad.   I try to keep myself in shape.   Mentally is quite tough as well, I guess, but with Christmas around the corner, you want to get home and enjoy Christmas.   Two big weeks to go, want to finish strong and enjoy the Christmas.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT