PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 16, 2008
Stuart Manley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  STUART MANLEY: Very delighted, hit lots of fairways and made a few birdies. The greens were a bit bumpy and was not the best of draws but for some reason the putts just went in, so quite happy. Hopefully keep it going, could use the money, and best round of the year so far. 

 Q. So do you need the money or just for Order of Merit?
 STUART MANLEY: Order of Merit -- no, I'm not desperate, and obviously Christmas is around the corner, so that would be nice, as well. 

 Q. How is the course?
 STUART MANLEY: The course is very good, very good. I didn't practice and I just thought, you missed a few, you were going to be playing out and that was the case. But looking at the leaderboard when I got to the course today, 5-under, 6-under, that was unbelievable. I didn't think that was going to be the case today. 

 Q. Your season so far?
 STUART MANLEY: Not very good, to be honest. Haven't really performed the way I should be performing. I'm playing fantastic in practice. My coach is really happy with the way I'm hitting it, and every Tuesday, we have matches on Tuesdays and I think I've lost one game all year. And I'm just playing fantastic in practice, and obviously must be a mental issue there somewhere and just not taking it on to the golf course you know. 

 Q. Not getting down on yourself thouogh?
 STUART MANLEY: No, you've got to enjoy it up here. Such a great place to play your golf, it's a privilege, really. So just got to make the most of this year and hope it improves and be positive. I know it's in there, just got to get it out, you know. 

 Q. Last three birdies, starting at the 6th?
 STUART MANLEY: Just a top 4-iron in there to about 30 feet pin-high right and rolled it in.
 Then on No. 7, I made a really good par actually, couldn't reach the green in two, and got up-and-down from about 50 yards. So that was great. 
 Then the flag on No. 8, went about ten feet past and rolled back.
 Then 9, tee shot was just down the right side. Hit a smooth 9-iron to about 20 feet and rolled in down the hill. 

 Q. At Ganton on the Walker Cup you won the match --
 STUART MANLEY: Yeah, won the match. I definitely won the match. On 16 I 2-putted and tapped in and won the match. 

 Q. Are you a good player under pressure?
 STUART MANLEY: Last year, I was, yeah. This year I didn't put myself under enough pressure. Last year I played very well under pressure, very consistent. I had a really great week my last week of the year last year to finish Top-10 on the Challenge Tour, so it was quite good form. I did quite well last year. 
 So just getting in position really and then technique, it's obviously more challenging out here, and it would be nice to be in on the weekend if I do well tomorrow. 

 Q. Inaudible?
 STUART MANLEY: Absolutely. It's just one of those things, you get going on the greens. I made pretty much everything I looked at today. I just got in a groove today on the greens and made everything really. Just had a good putting lesson with my coach yesterday and I just tried something different, and it worked. 
 Kind of refocused last week or so on my short game. I've been hitting really good tee-to-green but not really scoring, like chipping and putting. So my coach said, look, you've really got to spend more time on your short game, so the last week or two, I really tried to over-emphasize the short game. Probably flying home tonight or tomorrow morning, yeah, he always leaves today normally.

 Q. Who is your coach? 
 STUART MANLEY: Pete Cowen. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT