ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE BASEBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2014
Dale Carey
Chris Diaz
Jim Morris
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Clemson: 3
  Miami: 2

THE MODERATOR:   Joining me on the dais are Miami head Coach, Jim Morris, Chris Diaz and Dale Carey, Coach? 
COACH MORRIS:   First of all, congratulations to Clemson.   They played well.   Gossett threw really well against us, he did the first time, we beat 'em the first time 1‑0 in a great game.   We felt like he was the best pitcher we faced all year coming into this game.   He pitched very well he played good solid defense, and got some good hits.   Our guys played hard, too, and we had some opportunities, we got a base hit here or there, but they got that big hit when they needed it and they were fighting hard.   Everybody was fighting hard in that game. 

Q.   Chris, it looked like you couldn't get comfortable on the mound.   Can you explain to us what was going on in your mind? 
CHRIS DIAZ:   It was definitely one of my toughest outings all year, and couldn't find the feel for my fastball, but I kept battling and my team kept it close and unfortunately we came up short. 

Q.   You get to third base, 1 out, were you optimistic?
DALE CAREY:   When I got to third base, you know, Palmer has been doing a great job all year coming up clutch, and when I got to third base, I expected the same thing out of him.   Put a good swing on the ball, and chopped it on the ground and it's a new day Saturday.

Q.   Chris, hows your finger doing?   Did that have any bearing on how you pitched today at all?
CHRIS DIAZ:   I don't like coming up with excuses, but that was definitely a tough game for me.   All around, felt good in the bullpen, and then I just got out there and couldn't find a feel for it. 

Q.   Talk about post‑season implications for a national seed.   What's your first impressions after a tough loss like that?
COACH MORRIS:   No question.   This tournament was very important for us to be able to get a national seed, because we were kind of on the bubble from that perspective. 
We needed a couple of big hits here and there to make that happen, and this is a tough league.   It's a tough league.   Anybody that came into this tournament could win it.   I said that before the tournament started.   It's just a really, really tough league.   They used to be‑‑ and I've been in this league a long time, between Miami and Georgia Tech and there used to be two divisions, you had your top teams and bottom teams and that's not the case.   Every team in this league is good, they have to battle single every day and some great clubs.   You better be ready to play every day or you'll go home with a loss. 

Q.   Coach, Clemson was on the bubble coming into this tournament?   Are they a tournament team in your opinion? 
COACH MORRIS:   We beat them at Clemson earlier three times this year, they were all well‑played games.   As I said we beat Gossett 1‑0 in 11 innings, it was a great game.   They've got a really quality team, Krieger was not in their lineup and I know he didn't get any hits today, but he's one of their good players that can make a difference in their lineup.   They got some really good athletes that play and to me their club has got to be‑‑ they're definitely one of the best 64 clubs in the country, if that's what you're asking me.   And I think at least 8 teams in this league gotta get in that tournament and hopefully with the addition of some of the other teams that are very good in this conference that we can get nine or ten teams in the NCAA Tournament. 

Q.   Dale, the team started 13‑12 and then you rattled off 27.   Do you think the way you responded is an indication or‑‑ (Away from mic.) 
DALE CAREY:   For sure we're a team that can turn around any moment and we have two tough losses. 
We're looking to start another streak, so Saturday is another game and a new day for us and another opportunity to start another streak. 

Q.   Seems like you were getting good swings on Gossett early in the game and after the 2‑run third he seemed to have made an adjustment.   What do you think he did differently? 
COACH MORRIS:   He started throwing his breaking ball better and getting ahead of the hitters and early he didn't get ahead as well, he didn't throw as many good breaking balls early in the game.   He's got the best breaking ball in the conference and we knew it would be a tough game for us. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, guys.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT