KIA CLASSIC
March 26, 2021
Hyo Joo Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Hyo Joo, you shot even par, 72 today.  If you could, just take us through the round and how you got to even par.
 HYO JOO KIM:   I started today the same as yesterday with a bogey, so I think that the start was just as hard and a little difficult.  But I also had a couple misses, so that's how I played the round today.
 Similar to yesterday, was a little tough.
 Q. You're within four shots of the lead.  Aviara seems to be playing a little more challenging maybe than years past.  How do you attack this course this weekend to climb the leaderboard?
 HYO JOO KIM:   There seems to be a lot of wind this week so a lot of players will find that particularly challenging.
 Also the greens, I think it'll be a game to test players and their putting skills this week.  So whoever can manage the greens this week I think will come out on top.
 Q. Awesome.  I think In Gee Chun said it earlier this week, that this course reminds her of other courses in Korea.  Is that a similar sentiment that you have, and are there any specific courses back home in this course reminds you of?
 HYO JOO KIM:   I would say that I think similarly because there are a lot of hills on this course, so in that respect it's similar to the courses in Korea.
 So although I would agree that some parts are similar, it's also just completely different grass, so to say that it's completely different too in a lot of respects.  So similar but also very different.
 Q. Last one we have for you:  Being away from the LPGA Tour for a year and now finding yourself in contention in your first event back heading into the weekend, is there some excitement and now nerves that come along with finally finding yourself back in this position on the LPGA?
 HYO JOO KIM:   Definitely no nerves.  I'm happy to be in this position.
 And there is a lot of the excitement.  I think on top of that excitement, being able to play really well has definitely made it not only exciting, but makes me look forward to how I play this week.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT