KIA CLASSIC
March 25, 2021
Hyo Joo Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  (Through translation.)
 Q. Welcome back.  This is your first round on the LPGA since 2019.  It's got to be a good feeling.  How do you feel after that round?
 HYO JOO KIM:   It's definitely been a long time since I've been in this state, and of course I felt a little bit frustrated and awkward, too, in the beginning, just speaking English all of a sudden and a lot of it at one time.
 But definitely happy to be back playing and even happier that the first round went to my liking.
 Q. The first round went very well.  A lot of birdies, a handful bogeys, but still a good round.  Were there any highlights of your round, particularly good holes for you?
 HYO JOO KIM:   I think I was able to get over the birdies because of the 1st hole where I bogeyed and after this bogey I told myself their need to focus a lot more.  So I think that's why I was able to get a lot of birdies.
 But tomorrow I'm hoping -- or today I also made a lot of mistakes that I shouldn't have made, and tomorrow I'm looking forward to not making as many mistakes and having a great round.
 Q. Last year you were in Korea the whole year, even when the LPGA restarted here.  You played so well, won several categories.  Did you think about coming back here and how were you using that success to put you into this year?
 HYO JOO KIM:   It's funny, because from both sides -- as you know, I wasn't in the States for a lot of the year, and it's funny because a lot of players in the U.S. who competed asked when am I coming over to the U.S., and then a lot of my friends and players in Korea ask when are you going to the U.S.
 So I definitely had it in the back of my mind, and I told myself that this year in 2021 I definitely should have to go in the U.S. But because I was home, I spent a lot of time practicing throughout the fall and the winter, and then I knew I had to come back this year.
 Q. But even though we're happy to have you back, it had to be nice to be home in Korea for so long.  Were you able to be with your family?  How else did you spend your time during the lockdown?
 HYO JOO KIM:   I definitely spent a lot of time with may family.  Actually before coming here during the pandemic I didn't really go out other than for workouts or practice, and so when I started packing to finally come to the U.S. my mom was a little bit flustered and asked me, Where are you going?  I told her, LPGA, most of the tournaments are overseas, so I should go now.
 So I packed my bags and I'm here, and happy to be here.
 Q. We're very happy to have you back.  One last question from me.  Very good round but you said you made a few mistakes.  What do you plan to work on to make this round of 67 even better for tomorrow?
 HYO JOO KIM:   I'm not sure if the score will be any better, but I definitely had a really strong iron game today, and I will say that I would like to work a little bit more on my drivers.  I think the drives off the tee are points where I -- they're a little bit -- it's a shame to miss them, so definitely trying to focus on the drives.
 And then the rough is actually a little tougher here, so focusing on this, too, going into the week.
 Q. Thank you for coming in.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT