KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 20, 2019
Hyo Joo Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
HYO JOO KIM: Today on the front-9 I felt like there wasn't a lot of wind so I felt like the round really went well and the wind started to pick up at the end but it wasn't that difficult as much as I thought it would be.   
The course played really long today.  It just kept feeling like I just wanted to play even par and that's kind of what was in my mind.  Lot of birdies came out of the round today.  Short game came together really well and I'm just really happy about my good score.   
 Q.  When did the wind start to really pick up?  
HYO JOO KIM: The wind started to pick up around hole 15.  It looked like it was going to rain so I tried to play perfectly.   
 Q.  How much is it an advantage to get through most of it without the wind before maybe the storm comes and the tee times get disrupted?  
HYO JOO KIM: I think it was a good thing that the wind kept -- blowing pretty hard during the whole round.  Overall, the course is playing really long so I think that was the advantage.   
Of course, if the wind is blowing, it just makes it really, really tough with the strategies on the holes.  I think that once the wind started to pick up it started to get really hard.   
 Q.  Is the course playing long just because the holes are long or is it soft, maybe longer because of that?  
HYO JOO KIM: The holes are just really long.   
 Q.  Do you like tougher golf courses?  You played well here today.  
HYO JOO KIM: I definitely think that tough courses kind of play to my game.  It's not like I like long courses but I think that other than playing hard it just really fits my game.   
 Q.  What's the hardest course you've ever played?  
HYO JOO KIM: I'm not really sure.  I don't remember.  Sorry.   
 Q.  You won the very first Major you ever played in.  People thought or surely a bunch of them what are the challenges of then and trying to repeat?  
HYO JOO KIM: Of course a win would be awesome.  It's definitely the goal out here.  More than winning I have specific goals at each tournament, whether it's having a hot putter or working on my chipping game, everything just -- I work on one thing for each event.   
 Q.  What is the goal this week?  
HYO JOO KIM: So the goal is to make 30 putts or less.  So, my round, 30 putts per round and to hit 12 greens.  I didn't make that goal on greens but definitely had success on the putts.   
 Q.  You had a string of Top-10 finishes earlier this year.  Do you feel like you're playing to that level now here in June?  
HYO JOO KIM: So, making a Top-10 finish is definitely my goal every week and I want to continue that and playing consistently.  The 30 putts and the 12 greens, that's something that I try to make every week, especially this week.  But yes, Top-10 is definitely a goal.   
 Q.  What did I say?  
HYO JOO KIM: How is the wind?  You're doing good in Korean so I'll continue to speak in Korean.  The wind didn't really affect my play today since it started to pick up towards the end.  So, I'm really glad that was the case.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT