MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 8, 2008
Diana D'Alessio
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Review your scorecard, start on 1.  
 DIANA D'ALESSIO: Sure. You want to know what I did?  
 MIKE SCANLAN: What club you had, how far your putt was.  
 DIANA D'ALESSIO: I had 8-iron and I had about four feet, made that.  
 No. 3, I reached in two which is a par 5 and I hit 4 rescue and had about 30 feet for eagle and two-putted for birdie.  
 Seven, I hit 58-degree wedge, probably to about 25 feet and made that.  
 Eight, I made bogey. Do you want me to tell you?   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Yes.  
 DIANA D'ALESSIO: Hit my 5-iron in the right bunker and plugged. Got it on the green and two-putted for bogey.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: How far was the two-putt from?  
 DIANA D'ALESSIO: About 20 feet. 13, oh, I don't remember what I hit there. Oh, I hit 8-iron. Okay. Hit 8-iron to about 20 feet, made that.  
 16, 134 to the pin and hit a lovely knockdown 7-iron into the hole. And 18, I hit pitching wedge to about five feet, made that.  
  
MIKE SCANLAN: It's got to feel good to come in, do your scorecard and see that many birdies and an eagle on your card today.   
 Can you talk about how you played?  
 DIANA D'ALESSIO: I played very solidly. I hit the ball fairly well. The key is to keep it in the fairway. I missed one fairway. It was in the fairway bunker so I could still go at the green. Hit it solid, made some good putts. The hole out was nice. I was betting Becky so it was good because she made four birdies so I'm up like ten bucks or she made five birdies. I had a lot of fun. I had a good time and enjoyed my day.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Questions?  
  
  Q. The eagle, can you go a little bit more into detail? Did it land, did it pitch? What did you do with it?  
 DIANA D'ALESSIO: Yeah. That hole is playing back into the wind so I went with one more club than I normally would hit so I hit a knockdown 7-iron and it pitched probably about five feet short of the hole and one hopped. I think it one hopped and went in. My caddy yelled, "Go in" and did it.   
 She needs to do that more often, evidently.  
  
  Q. You hadn't had too many rounds in the 60s this year. Anything different about today? Did you just feel on?  
 DIANA D'ALESSIO: This year I've been hitting the ball pretty well but just not making any putts and, you know, the key was warming up the putter and that was probably pretty much the difference.   
 I did hit it quite solid. That does help here. The greens are pretty receptive right now so you can fire at the pins, whereas the last few weeks have been really dry conditions and kind of pitch it and hope it rolls out to the right number or at least hit it 130, it's usually will land 130.  
  
  Q. Did you think it was going to be a scoring day when you started?  
 DIANA D'ALESSIO: You know, I knew the scores would be low but, as I said, if you miss the fairway you're pretty much just pitching out and chances are you're going to make bogey.   
 If you're hitting it straight then it will be a scoring day. But with the rain that we had this morning, the course is very receptive so I think we'll get some good scores.  
  
  Q. You said you missed a fairway off the tee. Which one was it?  
 DIANA D'ALESSIO: 14.   
  
  Q. Bunker left?  
 DIANA D'ALESSIO: Dumped it in the bunker left.  
  
  Q. What did you have coming in?  
 DIANA D'ALESSIO: There was plenty of green behind the pin. I was trying to get on the green. I made it about 15 feet. Just missed it.  
  
  Q. So the sand is much better to be playing out of than that heavy rough.  
 DIANA D'ALESSIO: Yeah. You get a good lie in the bunker that's the play to be. Obviously a lot of these bunkers have some big lips. That one is perfect because if you miss the fairway right there you're dead.   
 I hit in it in the practice round there and I was okay, be pitching out. Yeah, if you're not in the middle of the fairway, bunker left is the play.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Anything else?  
  
  Q. Just give me your impression of playing with Michelle and the status of her game, in your opinion.  
 DIANA D'ALESSIO: Yeah. She hit some squirrely shots today which is going to happen. She really hits the ball. She hit some tee shots I was like, "Oh, my God." Super nice girl.   
 I really enjoyed playing with her. I met her in Evian last year at just a parings party. Actually I was happy with playing with her, you know, just to get a chance to know her and talk to her, see how school is going, but she's got just an enormous amount of talent and super nice girl, really nice. I enjoyed it.  
  
  Q. Did she seem frustrated today? She had some left, some right, kind of all over the place.  
 DIANA D'ALESSIO: I'm sure she kept herself very composed which is good to see. But, you know, she's struggling a little bit right now but still very nice to play with. Says, "Good shot". She's encouraging. I enjoyed it.  
  
  Q. When was the last time you holed one from the fairway?  
 DIANA D'ALESSIO: Last year in Mexico. I actually holed out from the fairway and the next hole is a par 3 and I made a hole-in-one. When I was stepping on 17 I was thinking I could do that again but it didn't happen.  
  
  Q. You holed two shots in a row?  
 DIANA D'ALESSIO: I did. Like the 13th time in LPGA history. I was trying to go for 14 and I didn't.  
  
  Q. You said it's been dry conditions the last couple times. What was the dryest, Ginn?  
  
DIANA D'ALESSIO: Be Ginn. I would probably say the tournament in South Florida, the Stanford Financial. Those greens were nice and firm and last week was just so windy it was just ridiculous.  
  
  Q. So you said you holed out after making eagle from the fairway in Mexico. What happened with the tee shot at 17 today?  
 DIANA D'ALESSIO: Actually hit it pretty good. Hit too much club. I mean it pitched just past pin high and rolled by quite a bit.  
  
  Q. The thought went through your head again?  
 DIANA D'ALESSIO: Oh yeah. "Oh, par 3. Let's see if I can do that again."  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Alright.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT