LONGS DRUGS CHALLENGE
October 4, 2007
Diana D'Alessio
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Diana, thanks for joining us today.  You shot a 3-under, 69 out there.  Kind of tied with the pack for what is the second best score in the clubhouse.  How did it feel to come in after the first round of this tournament and post that kind of score? 
 DIANA D'ALLESSIO:  I feel pretty good.  It was a tough day out there.  The wind was a lot stronger than it has been all week, so it was a little bit difficult to adjust at first.  But I struck the ball well, and when you strike the ball well it usually goes through the wind pretty well. 
 I'm pleased with where I sit going into tomorrow. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Speaking of wind, there are supposed to be wind gusts of up to 30 miles per hour.  So I definitely think you had an advantage playing in the morning round.  But it sounds like the wind still added a whole new element to an already difficult course. 
 DIANA D'ALLESSIO:  Yeah, gusts were definitely difficult to pick up.  Obviously when it's gusting you just don't know when it's going to come.  It happened to me on 17.  But you just got to hang in there and stay patient.  I think that's the best key to playing in it. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Can we go over your scorecard?  You started on the front 9.  Birdies and bogeys, starting with the first birdie on 3. 
 DIANA D'ALLESSIO:  No. 3 I hit 58-degree wedge to about 12 feet and made that. 
 No. 6 I hit grip 8-iron to maybe about ten feet and made that. 
 No. 11 I hit 9-iron to about ten feet and made that. 
 And then 13 I 3-putted from about ten feet.  Wasn't really happy with that. 
 14, I made birdie from about six feet and I hit 9-iron in there. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Okay.  We'll do some questions here. 

 Q.  Where do you sit on the Money List right now? 
 DIANA D'ALLESSIO:  I think 51st. 

 Q.  Okay.  Lorie was just in here saying that as the season winds down it gets more and more important for people to make the cut and get a good paycheck to ensure their spot in the Top 90, also in the top 70 for that matter.  Do you feel secure in that? 
 DIANA D'ALLESSIO:  Yeah.  You know, I think you have to be in the top 40 on the Money List after this week in order to have a two-year exemption, but I think I need to make about $69,000 or is a something like that.  You know, I finished in the top 40 on the Money List last year through the whole season. 
 Definitely a goal to obviously improve on that.  But I'm happy with where I sit this year because I've played really consistently.  Last year at the beginning of the year I just didn't play well, and then I think I had four Top 10s coming in and that kind of boosted me up the Money List. 
 Where this year I'm making more cuts and playing more consistently making I guess more money per tournament.  So that's kind of a good place to be.  Obviously I would like to finish in the top 10 every week and do it that way, but 51st on the Money List, I'm pretty pleased with that. 

 Q.  The weather today I imagine is such a stark contrast to some of the recent tournaments.  Is that something that you get mentally prepared for? 
 DIANA D'ALLESSIO:  Yeah.  You know, warming up on the range it wasn't that windy.  Obviously you're kind of blocked a bit, but the first couple holes weren't too bad.  Then all of a sudden, yeah, you know it's coming.  You just kind of deal with it.  If you do this long enough you kind of just have to adjust and figure out how much the wind is affecting it. 
 That's where it's really great when you have a good caddie that you can rely on, because they help you tremendously. 

 Q.  Coming into the tournament a lot was made about how 19 of the top 20 players on the Money List are here.  Looking at the leaderboard right now it goes to show how deep the LPGA is right now. 
 DIANA D'ALLESSIO:  Yeah, the LPGA is sold.  We've got some really good golfers out there.  Obviously it's great to have 19 of, what is it, 19 of 21?  Wow.  I mean, that's solid.  I think that shows that people want to come play this golf course and play in this tournament.  But, yeah, the LPGA is deep.  We've got good golf going. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Thanks. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT