EVIAN MASTERS
July 28, 2007
Diana D'Alessio
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PAM WARNER:  Thank you for joining us today. 
 DIANA D'ALESSIO:  Sure. 
 PAM WARNER:  Didn't have as much luck today, but I know that there was some hard condition out there with the wind.  There were not many low under par scores.  Talk about how you played today. 
 DIANA D'ALESSIO:  I was playing solid for the first 11 holes.  When I walked onto the No. 12 tee, usually a decent driving hole for me, it sets up well, I hit it in the right rough.  Didn't make a very good second shot, and then it was just the comedy of errors into the hole ending with a 4-putt. 
 So overall, not too unhappy, I guess, with my position of position in the tournament.  The golf course is definitely playing more difficult.  The greens were firming up.  Tougher to fly it at some pins today that you could the first couple days. 
 But I ended with a bogey on 18.  That doesn't fit so well.  I'll hopefully just go to sleep today and forget about it and wish for better things tomorrow. 
 PAM WARNER:  Can we go over your scorecard? 
 DIANA D'ALESSIO:  Sure. 
 PAM WARNER:  Bogey on 2. 
 DIANA D'ALESSIO:  Bogey on 2.  Just left my tee shot to the right and hit it in the bunker.  Had about 25 feet for par and just 2-putted. 
 PAM WARNER:  From how far? 
 DIANA D'ALESSIO:  25 feet. 
 PAM WARNER:  Birdie on 5. 
 DIANA D'ALESSIO:  Birdie on 5.  Actually hit a good tee shot down the middle.  I hit a really horrible 58-degree wedge that just kind of got onto the front.  And I made probably about a 40-footer, so that was kind of nice.  I was like, Okay, good.  Here we go. 
 No. 6, another birdie.  7-iron to about ten feet.  Made that. 
 PAM WARNER:  And then can you go through what happened on 12? 
 DIANA D'ALESSIO:  12 I hit it in the right rough.  Not a great lie, but thought that it was good enough to be able to go for the green, so I kind of tried to open the face of the 6-iron and just lost it way right. 
 Then I had about 60 yards to the green and tried to hit it over the trees.  Hit what I thought was going to be a good shot but it just got hung up in the rough just right of the pin. 
 This pin position was pretty tough today.  Chipped to probably about 25 feet past the hole and then knocked my putt by about four feet above the hole and then knocked my next putt about 12 feet past the hole.  I didn't think I hit it that hard to be honest with you, and then missed the 12-footer coming back.  Tapped in for 8 and moved on. 
 PAM WARNER:  Bogey on 14. 
 DIANA D'ALESSIO:  Yeah.  14 I'm having trouble hitting that green.  I hit it in the right bunker.  Blasted it out to probably about 15 feet and 2-putted. 
 15, hit 58-degree wedge on the green, but passed the pin and just 3-putted.  16 I made birdie.  Hit 58-degree wedge to about 5 feet and made it. 
 17 I actually almost had a hole-in-one.  Hit 52 degree wedge to about two inches. 
 PAM WARNER:  Wow. 
 DIANA D'ALESSIO:  Yeah, that was nice.  18 I bogeyed.  I went for it in two.  I only had 179 yards to the front and just didn't make a good swing.  Hit it in the water. 
 PAM WARNER:  What club was that? 
 DIANA D'ALESSIO:  4 Rescue. 
 PAM WARNER:  Questions? 

 Q.  You mentioned yesterday that you were quite nervous as the leader.  How do you feel as the underdog now?  Does it take the pressure off? 
 DIANA D'ALESSIO:  Yeah.  Definitely.  A bit.  I actually thought that I handled my nerves pretty well until the disaster on 12, and then I sort of got unraveled a bit.  But then kind of righted the ship on 16 and 17. 
 18 I felt pretty good standing over my second shot.  I just didn't make a good swing.  Sometimes you don't, and you really have to hit it pretty solid there because there's trouble everywhere. 
 Being the underdog is definitely probably a lot easier, and I'm sure I'll sleep better tonight.  But I look forward to tomorrow because I definitely think it's in there.  It's still there even though I didn't play really today. 
 But the conditions were definitely more difficult today, so I look forward to tomorrow. 

 Q.  Could you comment on this tournament so far and the golf course, what you think of it? 
 DIANA D'ALESSIO:  The course is lovely.  There's not really a bad view from any hole.  Even after I made 8 I'm like, Oh, let's just look at the lake.  Bring me peace.  It's been great.  Everybody has treated us wonderfully, so I've really enjoyed my first trip to Evian. 
 PAM WARNER:  Thank you very much. 
 DIANA D'ALESSIO:  Sure. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT