EVIAN MASTERS
July 27, 2007
Diana D'Alessio
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PAM WARNER:  Currently tied for the lead at 7-under, just talk about how you played today. 
 DIANA D'ALESSIO:  I think I played quite solidly.  I hit the ball well.  I don't know how many greens I hit.  I think maybe 15 or 16, and holed a few putts. 
 But overall, I struck it well and pretty pleased. 
 PAM WARNER:  Can we go over your scorecard? 
 DIANA D'ALESSIO:  Sure.  First hole, I hit my 52-degree wedge to about three feet and made birdie. 
 11, I hit grip pitching wedge to actually just off the back fringe and made about a 25-footer. 
 15, I hit 58-degree wedge to about six feet and made that putt, and that was it. 
 I missed a 4-footer on the last hole, just hit it through the break.  The greens are quite tricky here.  You're trying to play the lake effect, and sometimes it's the opposite of what you see and it will drive you crazy.  So I knew this putt was going to move right, and it was up the hill and I just hit it right through the break and I hit it too hard for what I saw. 
 For the life of me, I can't remember the fifth hole.  When I played my practice round, I didn't play them in the correct order, and I can't remember and I stand on the tee and I go, "What does this hole do."  I think it was a relatively short putt. 
 Let's talk about my round and I'll keep thinking about it and I'll get back to you on what I hit there. 

 Q.  Can you just talk about your season and how it's been going? 
 DIANA D'ALESSIO:  It's been going pretty well.  Usually I'm a pretty slow starter, and being that it's July and I think I'm 60th or so on the Money List, I was actually kind of happy with how I've been playing.  I think I could be playing better.  It's just about holing putts and sometimes you just don't hole them every week. 
 But overall, I'm pretty pleased with the year so far. 

 Q.  Did you play here last year? 
 DIANA D'ALESSIO:  No, this is my first time. 

 Q.  How is it living up to your expectations? 
 DIANA D'ALESSIO:  It's fantastic.  I'm having a great time.  I've been to France twice before to play amateur golf when I was in college.  I'm originally from New Jersey in America, and we have this thing called the Fred Cup where the League of Paris plays the Women's Metropolitan Golf Association.  So I played over here twice, once in Versailles, and I think St-Germain. 
 So, I quite enjoy it.  I've got to work on my French, though. 

 Q.  The Fred Cup? 
 DIANA D'ALESSIO:  Yeah, after Fred Joyeuse (ph) the jeweler. 

 Q.  How many cigarettes do you allow yourself playing is, and what's the impact of cigarettes? 
 DIANA D'ALESSIO:  No one's supposed to know about that.  (Laughing) it kind of just depends.  Obviously I don't smoke on the short holes.  It just relaxes me.  Besides golf, it's probably my favourite thing to do, which is really, really bad. 
 I know I need to quit but I enjoy it so much, and walking on the golf course and smoking, I quite like, but I hate -- obviously when you're playing well, I will not be smoking quite as much because I really don't like how it looks.  But it does relax me.  It's bad, though.  I try not to do it in front of the kids. 

 Q.  Does the fact that there is a cut in this tournament make a difference in your strategy at all? 
 DIANA D'ALESSIO:  Being that it's my first time over here, you know, I knew there was a cut, but it really doesn't make a difference.  My goal during my -- usually the second round and every round is to keep staying aggressive and give yourself lots of opportunities to make birdies. 
 I played the Match Play last week, and I did lose in the first round to the eventual winner.  But I played quite solid, so it's given me a little different perspective for stroke play after just playing match play.  I gave myself a lot of opportunities and I felt like if I could just carry that over, I would do better, and I think I have. 

 Q.  Do you think you'll be nervous tomorrow? 
 DIANA D'ALESSIO:  I'll definitely be nervous, yeah.  I'm nervous now.  I hope I can sleep.  I hope I can eat. 

 Q.  Will you smoke more if you're nervous? 
 DIANA D'ALESSIO:  I do but -- I'll smoke all night probably.  (Laughing). 

 Q.  Do you look at the leaderboard going around? 
 DIANA D'ALESSIO:  I looked at it once today going to No. 10, and I was like, "Whoa, don't look at it," and I got instantly really, really nervous and made some squirrely swings.  So I opted not to look at it until I holed my last putt on 18 just to see what everybody was doing and I still really don't have any idea.  I think Jin Joo Hong was at the same score but she still had 18 to play. 

 Q.  Will you look at it tomorrow? 
 DIANA D'ALESSIO:  I'm not going to look at it, it makes me too nervous.  When I'm not playing well, I'll look at it to see how everybody else is doing.  But when I'm playing well, I'm not going to look at it. 

 Q.  When was the last time you were in contention after 36 holes? 
 DIANA D'ALESSIO:  That's a good question.  I finished Top-10 at the Corning Classic this year in New York which was in May, but I really wasn't in contention at the start of the last round because I was -- I shot 65 the last round to finish in the Top-10.  So I honestly can't remember.  Sometime last year, end of last year sometime.  I don't know, Thailand, Hee-Won (Han) had like a six-shot lead so we really were all playing for second, so it's different. 

 Q.  What do you put this down to, this run of form? 
 DIANA D'ALESSIO:  It's quite -- it's quite -- I don't know.  What do I attribute playing well?  I don't know.  I think I'm accustomed to playing well and getting myself into contention.  It's just really holding momentum swings when you need to, like on No. 14, I had missed the green on the par 3 down the hill; I can remember that hole.  I sank about a 12-footer for par, and that keeps your round going and your confidence going, even though I didn't make quite a good swing on the tee, I still was able to keep myself going. 
 And I think that really the key to any round generally, I strike the ball pretty solid and hit a lot of greens, but it's just making some key putts when you need to. 

 Q.  Where do you say you're from?  You were born in New Jersey but it says you live in South Carolina. 
 DIANA D'ALESSIO:  Yeah, that's wrong.  I live in Florida but I'm originally from New Jersey. 

 Q.  So you're always from New Jersey then? 
 DIANA D'ALESSIO:  Yeah, I'm born and raised in New Jersey. 
 5, I hit 58 degree wedge to 12 feet and made it.  Now I remember that hole. 
 PAM WARNER:  Thank you very much. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT