DU MAURIER CLASSIC
August 10, 2000
Diana D'Alessio
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DIANA D'ALESSIO: 10, I hit a 3-wood off the tee. And 125 yards in, hit an 8-iron about
15 feet, and made a putt for birdie. The next hole is par-3. It was 161, and I hit 5-iron.
And I was about 40 feet below the hole, and made that coming up the hill for birdie. Next
hole -- 14, sandwedge to 2 feet. 15 is that difficult par-4. I hit driver into the rough,
the right rough, and had a fairly bad lie, and I hit a 6-iron out to layup, and had 85
yards on my third shot, and hit it about 15 feet and 2-putted for bogey. The first hole is
a par-5. I had 103 yards in, and hit a knockdown 9-iron to about 4 feet, 4 1/2 feet, made
birdie. Next hole is a par-3. I was playing 186 to the pin. I hit 7-wood over the green,
and chipped in for birdie from behind the green. 5, I had 160 yards in out of the left
rough. I hit a knockdown 5-iron for the back of the green. And I was on the back fringe,
and made -- I think it was 36 feet for birdie.

Q. What hole was that?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: Five. 8, it was playing 196 -- I can't remember exactly -- but I hit
5-wood in the left bunker, and it didn't get up-and-down; so I made bogey. And then 9 is a
par-5. I hit driver down the left side, had 211 to the hole, and hit 5-wood, pin-high
left, and had about, I think it was 39 feet for eagle, and knocked it by, but made a
birdie coming back. 

Q. How far was your chip that you chipped in?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: It was just off the back of the green. It was probably about 20, 25
feet. It was a tough chip, the wind was in the back. So I just landed it on the green, and
it trickled in the hole.

Q. Are you usually a pretty good putter?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: I'm getting better. I really love fast greens. These are pretty fast.

Q. Did you grow up on fast greens?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: Yeah, I'm from New Jersey, so I grew up on bent greens, so they're
pretty fast. I played a lot in New York state, so everything was pretty fast growing up.

Q. How has your year been going in again?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: It started out pretty strong. I finished 4th in my second event, the
Cup Noodles, and it's been in a lull the last month and a half, so this is a real treat to
play well, finally, because I've been hitting the ball well. It's fun to get it all to
come together.

Q. When you say you've been in a lull, what's been going wrong?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: I think it's pretty mostly mental. I've been hitting it well, putting
it well, but I haven't believed in myself. I missed the last four cuts, and I think it's
just pretty much believing in myself. My teacher and I have been working on having
confidence and walking around like you believe in yourself. So I stepped on every tee
today, knowing that I could make birdie.

Q. When have you sat in this position before, where you've been a clubhouse leader on
the first day?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: I never have. This is the first time. In the event, in Hawaii, ladies
Cup Noodles Open, I shot 68 the first round, and it was a three-day tournament, and just
came from behind, sort of, to finish 4th, when I shot 68 the last day. I've never really
been in this position, ever. It feels kind of good.

Q. Can you keep this up?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: I hope so. I'm going to try.

Q. Did you do anything differently last night in terms of preparation?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: No. Yesterday I practiced for about five hours ,then went back and
relaxed, had dinner, met my mom, who drove from New Jersey to come watch, and then went
back and watched Survivor, played a little solitaire on my computer, read a little, Into
Thin Air, and then went to bed. Nothing out of the unusual.

Q. Is this a low career round?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: Yes, 67.

Q. How do you explain that? Does it seem like it's out of the blue?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: No, everything went my way today. I made a lot of putts. I've never
had 23 putts before in my life. That's my career low putting for the day. I can't say it's
a surprise, because I've been hitting the ball well, I've been really playing well, just
not scoring. And I think just today it all came together for me.

Q. How did you find the course played today?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: I thought it played perhaps a little easier than in the practice
round. It's dried out some. The greens are quicker, which I guess doesn't make it easier.
But, I don't know, it's easier for me to focus, obviously, in a tournament round versus a
practice round. But it played difficult. I actually was fighting with myself this morning,
thinking that it's going to be so hard for you to shoot a low score on this golf course.
But yet I was trying to be confident with myself. So I guess hopefully the confidence won
out. It needs to the rest of the week.

Q. That's what you thought from your practice rounds, that it was going to be hard to
shoot a low round?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: That, for me, it was going to be tough, that it might not suit my game
that well.

Q. Why not?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: I don't know. I tend to think these things. But it didn't happen, so
it was okay.

Q. How long a drive is that for your mother? Does she frequently watch you play?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: It was about 7 1/2 hours. And she comes when she has a chance, when
they're fairly close to home. She came to -- she went to the JAL, to the Open. My dad is
flying in tomorrow. It will be good to have them all here.

Q. You made some long putts today. Did you get some close ones, possible birdie
chances?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: I think I missed one 15-footer for birdie. Other than that, I really
made almost every putt that I looked at.

Q. How long was that putt on 13 that you missed for birdie, par-5?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: It was about 12 feet. Yeah, that one, too, 15. There's a couple that I
missed for birdie that I could have possibly made.

Q. How hard is it for you financially to stay on Tour when you miss four cuts in a row?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: It hasn't been too bad yet, because I finished so well in my second
event. I don't have a sponsor, so I just -- I made $31,000 that first -- my second
tournament, so I was able to just live on that. And you do some occasional Pro-Ams where
they pay you. I wouldn't obviously mind playing well, so then I would have some more
money.

Q. I think this morning everyone looking at the leaderboard just kept asking
themselves: Who's D'Alessio? Is that a nice feeling that now you finally are getting
looked at?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: Yeah, it's good. It feels good. I know a lot of the girls out here,
because I'm pretty outgoing, and pretty personable. So I talk to a lot of them. But I'm
sure a lot of them didn't know my last name. It will be a topic of conversation.
"Who's that?" 

Q. Are you married?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: No.

Q. The first time you played in Canada?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: Yes. I like Canada. I need to come back. 

Q. It's got to be a different feeling for you sitting up there with this kind of media
scrutiny?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: Actually, it was worse when I just stepped off the golf course and I
didn't have a chance to gather my thoughts, and there was like six cameras right there,
and I was like, "Wow, can I help you?" We had media training. Laura made me go
through media training in Sacramento. So I'm all relaxed. It's just a casual setting.

Q. Can you tell us about how you came up, when you started playing, and when and where
and how you progressed to the point of making the Tour?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: I started playing golf when I was 13. I used to ride horses
competitively from about 8 years old to 12 years old. So my parents and I used to go on
vacation to get away from horses, and they would play golf, and I would play some golf. I
sort of had a natural ability for it. Then when I was 13, I was watching the women's
Kemper Open from Hawaii, and Betsy King won. I watched it every day, I even taped it,
because I was just like so enamored by playing professional golf. I thought: "My
gosh, I think I have to do this." So I told my father to sell my horse, and he had
just became a member at a country club in New Jersey, Newton Country Club, and I started
playing and practicing every day. And I think I was 14 when I joined -- I played my first
event in New Jersey. I finished third. So I thought I could have a future. So I just
practiced as hard as I could every day, worked on getting my handicap down, played in
local events in the state then tri-state area events until I was able to get into some
national events. And I got introduced to the AJGA, the American Junior Golf Association,
and I played in my first event when I was 15. And I think I won my second event. That sort
of opened up a lot of doors for me, because once --. Going back to when I watched that
tournament when I was 13, Betsy King went to Furman University. So I thought: "I've
got to go there." So that opened up scholarships to the university, and that's where
I met the coach at Furman. And he offered me a scholarship. I played two years for the
Futures Tour, went to qualifying school in 1999, got my conditional card, and here I am
today.

Q. What was it about Betsy King that --?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: What about it? 

Q. Why not Nancy Lopez?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: I don't know, she was winning the event. And actually I think Nancy
finished second. But they just kept talking about Betsy. Betsy played field hockey, Betsy
played basketball, and she was from Pennsylvania. It was like: "I want to be
her." And she was just so good. So I don't know. I guess that was why I was drawn to
her. Nancy, she's great, and I love her, and she's got a great personality and great golf
game. I don't know. It could be anyone. But I guess it was Betsy.

Q. Does she know you're a fan?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: I don't know, I'm sure someone has told her, but I haven't personally
told her. I'm kind of scared to.

Q. We'll look after that for you.

DIANA D'ALESSIO: I'm sure you will, now. 

Q. What was the name of your horse, and how hard was it to sell your horse?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: Her name was War Melody. I call her Mel. It was tough, because she was
beautiful. She's a bay thoroughbred. She was just beautiful.

Q. Did you do show jumping?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: It was equitation. I did -- no show jumping for me. That would
probably be the next level, but I didn't make it that far, which I think my father is kind
of happy about.

Q. Do you do anything special on Tour? Travel more cheaply, room with other players?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: I try and watch my costs, but I usually stay in private housing when
it's available. But, I don't know, I've been doing pretty well financially, so -- I
haven't been like freaking out about it, so it's okay.

Q. Are you staying in a house here?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: No, I'm staying at the Marriott.

Q. How do you prepare yourself now for tomorrow, knowing that -- if you're not at the
top of the board, you will be somewhere at the top?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: I don't think it's going to be any different than today, just in the
fact that I know my tee time already tomorrow. I know who I play with, because I played
with them today, and I have a very good group; they're very nice. I guess it would be
different if we reshuffled and, say, Karrie Webb shot 67, and I had to play with her, I'd
probably be a little more nervous. But nothing will really change. I'm just going to go
have lunch, practice, and I want to go to the Renoir and Monet exhibit at the museum. So
if someone could tell me where that is, I would really appreciate it. But that's it.
Nothing changed.

Q. So you'll do that before you play?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: Yeah, I might do that tomorrow, it depends. That could be good. Good
idea. Because I don't play until 1:40, I think. We'll see. 

Q. You said you came into this golf course with some doubts. Obviously, you have to go
out there tomorrow and play with a little bit of confidence, given the round today?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: Yeah, it definitely helped my self-confidence today quite a bit,
playing well today. So it's a very -- right now I have a mental battle that goes on, on
the golf course, but I'm really trying to make the self-confident one win.

Q. When you put yourself in that position on the first day, is the hardest thing to do
to stay there?

DIANA D'ALESSIO: I don't know. I don't think so. No, I don't think so. It's, for me,
the last month and a half have been shooting myself out of the tournament the first round.
So to keep myself in the tournament after the first round, that's a big relief off my
mind. So tomorrow, I'll just go tomorrow and do exactly what I did today. Yeah, that
should be easy (laughter.)

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT