U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 22, 2016
Won Jun Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. He got off to a good start on you, but you fought back in the match.  What got you back in the match?
WON JUN LEE: I mean, I did.  Just, you know, a little bit of like bad start for me because start 3-putt, 3-putt, you know, 3 and 4.
I came back eventually, but, you know, just it was just a little bit of like -- one 3-putt was like bad speed and one was like bad read.
Bad read is going to happen so I'm not going to blame on that.  But just one bad speed, that was big mistake for me, I think.  I think like I was 3-down, but it's like 1-down because he made birdie.  So I wouldn't say like it was my mistake, but I think I came back on back nine.
Q. Yeah.  You won 10, 11, and 12.
WON JUN LEE: Yeah, I mean, that hole I always make like big comeback, even yesterday and like two days ago.  It was good match with John, but, I mean, I was 1-up after 15, but on 16 he made birdie.  He made birdie, birdie.  I think that was the big point for John.
Q. Have you seen him play this well before?
WON JUN LEE: I did.  I had a match play with him one time in AJGA event, but he beat me in the playoff, too.  He plays good in the match play.
Q. You birdie 15 to take the lead finally.
WON JUN LEE: I did.
Q. How did you birdie that hole?
WON JUN LEE: I just know it was nothing to lose, so I just aim at the flag.  I just hit it and it was perfectly.
Q. What did you hit?
WON JUN LEE: 7.
Q. How far?
WON JUN LEE: 170.
Q. To how many feet?
WON JUN LEE: Six feet, six to seven feet.
Q. He was in close on 17; you had like a 5-footer.
WON JUN LEE: Yeah, it was tough chip, so at least I get the good distance control.  But John had like incredible shot, second shot, so...
Q. On the birdie putt on 17, was it a misread?
WON JUN LEE: I would say just a little bit a misread.  I give it all my chance to make it because it was a little left to right, but I just over read it, so...
Q. You've played well in this championship three straight years.
WON JUN LEE: Yeah.
Q. How do you that?  How do you get this far two years in a row?
WON JUN LEE: You know, I just enjoy myself.  This event is just huge, and like one of my favorite events.  Just come out here and have fun.  You're going to have a lot of the golf, so just take care one thing at time, you know.  Eventually you win the match.
Q. Do you think this championship is going to help you down the road?
WON JUN LEE: Yeah, it will, by far, because this match make me like challenge every year.  That's why.
Q. Thank you.
WON JUN LEE: Thank you very much.  Hope to see you soon.
Q. Yes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT