U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 24, 2015
Won Jun Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: How does it feel to get to the semifinals?WON JUN LEE: I mean, this is second year I'm playing U.S. Junior, and I think I been really improve a lot. It's means huge.  I mean, I'm able to play with like best players in the world.  I mean, everyone wants to try to qualify for U.S. Junior, and it's been hard work which payoff. I'm really happy.Q. How much of the experience of getting to the round of 32 last year helped you this time around?WON JUN LEE: I mean, last year I won first match and I lost second match to Sam Horsfield, but I think I learned a lot.  I played pretty solid last year.  It was close, but it wasn't enough for final.Q. But you knew what to expect more coming into this year's Championship, right?WON JUN LEE: Yeah.Q. Let's talk about this match.  You had a couple leads on him and he kept coming back at you.  What were you thinking during that process?WON JUN LEE: I mean, I just try to keep do the same thing, same routine.  Try to keep calm.Q. On the 15th hole he got into trouble off the tee.  Do you think that was probably the deciding point in the match?WON JUN LEE: Yeah, it was actually turning point for me.  I mean, I got a little as well, too.  But, I think, yeah, that was turning point.Q. And then you made a nice birdie at 16, about 14 feet, a little bit downhill.  Can you talk about that putt.WON JUN LEE: Yeah, I mean, I just try to like hit a good tee shot and try to get it on the fairway and try to hit inside 120 yards wedge shot and try to make birdie. I was hit really aggressive with my pitching wedge.  I try to go for it because I try to make birdie and try to go 2-up. I had a good read and I made it.Q. And then 17, were you trying to play to the left side of the green and stay away from the water?WON JUN LEE: Yeah, I mean, first and second match I hit it in the water, two matches in the a row.  I was a little bit frustrating. But I aimed a little left because I didn't want to get in the water.  Play a little safe.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT