SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 4, 2020
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Talk about today, a solid round of golf.  You've got to be happy.
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Yeah, today I scored well.  I think I played better the first two days but didn't score, and today I started a little shaky off the tee, but nice to make some good saves and some birdies on the back nine.  Good little stretch there.  I thought I had that one on 18 to close the week, but all in all, a good week.  I'm just excited to swing a golf club, man.  The last two years have been crazy to say the least, injury and then with our family situation, but like I told my wife, we can't change the past, so we're focusing on what's going on right now, having a good attitude, and once again, I'm very, very happy to be swinging a golf club again.
Q. And you're swinging good; a lot of fairways, a lot of greens today.  This was like the Camilo of old today.
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Yeah, I agree.  The first two days were unbelievable.  I think I was leading in strokes gained tee to green, which had become my weakness when the shoulder was bugging me.  The speed was down.  The speed is getting up.  I'm never going to be a bomber like the new guys out here, but when I came back from the shoulder, my driver ball speed was about 158, 159.  It's tough to compete on the PGA TOUR with that number.  With the new technology, by the way, which is something new to me where I can get in and see the spin rates and all that stuff.  I'm having fun with that, and seeing some ball speeds in 172, 173 makes me happy, and I can play with that speed.
Q. You shot 31 on the back nine.  As the leaders get on the course, is the back nine where you think they could take advantage?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   The golf course is gettable if you drive it good because you can control the spin.  Once you start getting a little bit crooked, you're going to get -- I love the rough here, don't get me wrong, and the reason why I love it is because you can always advance it forward, but you've got to be very, very smart and a little bit lucky in terms of judging the lie, how the ball is going to react.  I got a couple fliers yesterday that cost me.  Today I managed to work a little better, so for those guys playing late in the afternoon, the golf course is great.  This is some of the best greens we play all year, and not only that, but the hospitality and the people around here are great.  Just walking off the 18th green, and there's the tournament director there shaking our hands and saying thanks for coming, and that's kind of the feeling we get from here.
Q. What can you take from a round like this going forward?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   I think more than the round, it's the week.  The week was very weak with the putting, but the rest was great.  A little work on the putting, keep the rest the same, and we'll be there in Vegas next week.
Q. What's your schedule looking like?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   I'm going to play Vegas.  I think I'm going to play Bermuda.  What's after Bermuda?  Houston probably.  I like RSM.  I love Mexico.  Probably those -- I'm going to play quite a bit, yeah.  The shoulder is feeling great, so I'm just happy to have the shoulder feeling good, and as long as it stays like that, I'll keep going.
Q. And does being on the golf course take your mind off of things?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Yes for sure.  You've got to be focused when you're playing on the PGA TOUR.  You don't have -- even though you have time walking all those fairways, you've got to -- once you get to the ball, it's numbers, dial in, where is the wind, where is this, where is that, and it's just a very precise talk with my brother, and yeah, you've got to be focused out there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT