THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
September 26, 2008
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Your thoughts on the round?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Yeah, I played pretty solid today. That's what happens when you hit fairways and hit better putts than yesterday. This golf course is playing very, very tough, and you definitely have to put the ball in play. 
 I did a good job with that today, and the score, six shots better.

 Q. You win a tournament and then you have two weeks off. Is that a good thing or a bad thing as far as carrying the momentum over? Was it good to be fresh?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: I thought it was good for me. I don't know if I could have had my mind all the way in it if we would have played the next week. Making it my first win was a little crazy. I had to do a lot of media back home. 
 Having a chance to go back home and spend some time with the family and friends was awesome, just kind of recharge and get back to it.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: He looked pretty relaxed out there. We were talking and just kind of joking. But still, you're still grinding. A couple times he looked at me and I looked at him, and we go, Come on, man, let's get this thing going. We're playing terrible. Let's make it happen. 
 At the end we both played better. I eagled 15 and then Vijay birdied, I believe, 14 and 15, and we kind of got back into it. I have no clue how he played today, but hopefully he played good. 

 Q. Anthony Kim and Sergio Garcia, your friends, are up there on the leaderboard. That certainly doesn't come as a surprise to you, does it?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: No, they're both great players. I believe I'm in third place today, and I don't know what's going on, but it'll be nice to play threesomes tomorrow and play with two boys. But I know it's not going to happen, and we've got some work to do.

 Q. Your thoughts on the round in Spanish? 
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Spanish? I forgot how to speak it (laughter). (Answers in Spanish.) 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT