BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 6, 2008
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about not being able to finish out.   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: I'm playing good, and it is what it is. We knew we weren't going to finish, and you just prepare yourself mentally for that and come back tomorrow in the morning and play good.   
  
  Q. How much are you looking forward to playing tomorrow?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: I'm feeling good. I mean, I'm enjoying playing golf right now. I'm playing pretty good. I'm rolling in some great putts, and I'm excited about tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Talk about the run of just playing all day today and how your stamina level has kept up?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Same thing, it is what it is. We knew it was going to be that way. Unfortunately the fog got in the way a little bit in the morning, but it was going to be a long day and it will be a long day tomorrow. It's not easy, but you've just got to come with a good attitude and stick with it.  
  
  Q. So that's the situation right now, tied for the lead as we go into tomorrow?   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: I'm just excited. I'm excited to come back tomorrow, play some good golf and see what happens.  
  
  Q. Were you keeping up with where Jim Furyk was during the round?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Not really. I mean, he was halfway through when we teed it up in the afternoon, and there's a lot of golf to be played, so you've just got to focus on your game, focus on your shots, pick your targets and focus on your strengths.  
  
  Q. He really went on a tear there for a while, didn't he?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: He did. I think he started the day even par and obviously he had an unbelievable day. But that shows you that there's some birdies out there, and hopefully we can take some of them.   
  
  Q. Talk about that two-putt at the par-3, 13th in the afternoon round, 70-footer over the hill, you ran it by about 17 feet?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Yeah, yeah, obviously those ones get your momentum going. I hit a bad shot off the tee and I had a very tough putt. My first putt was very quick. I just rolled it by pretty far and then made it coming back.  
  
  Q. Big par save on No. 8, I believe, one of several really good putts on that front nine. Just comment on the putter.   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Yeah, on 17, yeah. I pushed my drive, hit it in the water, and then I had to drop way back there. But I managed to hit a 9-iron for my fourth shot and rolled in a beautiful putt. Once again, those pars sometimes feel like birdies and they get your round going.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT