BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2008
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER: We'd like to thank Camilo Villegas for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center at the BMW Championship, nice start to the week, 5-under 65. I know you made bogey on that last hole, but it was a terrific round. Talk about the day a little bit and the conditions.   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Obviously a good day, 5-under. I hit a lot of great shots out there, gave myself a lot of birdie putts, and unfortunately finished with a bogey there on the last. But it's okay. I'll be back tomorrow and hopefully put another good number on the board.   
  
  Q. How were the conditions? How did the course play?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: It was a little wet, but it was better than I thought. After the amount of rain that came down yesterday, I thought it was going to be very wet, but the golf course managed to hold up pretty good, and it was very, very playable.   
  
  Q. A couple of guys, Kenny Perry is talking about he's not looking forward to playing 36 tomorrow. What about yourself?   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: I am.   
  
  Q. Why so?   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: It is what it is. You're here to play a golf tournament, to do your best to win a golf tournament, and if you've got to play 36 holes tomorrow, you've got to play 36 holes tomorrow. If we've got to play more than 18 on Sunday, we've got to play more than 18 on Sunday.   
  
  Q. With your fitness level that's obviously an advantage, though, right?   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: I don't know, I'll be walking out of here, going to my room, relaxing and hopefully getting a good night of sleep to be ready and nice and fresh.   
  
  Q. When you get wet conditions like this, are you less likely to do Spiderman reads on the greens to avoid the water and the mud?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: It's the same thing. It's laundry (laughter).   
 JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER: Can we go through your birdies and bogeys real quick? You started on No. 1, made birdie.   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Yeah, I birdied -- I hit a great shot there to about maybe two and a half, three feet.   
 Then we went to 5, I birdied 5. Actually I made a great birdie there. I drove it in the left rough and managed to get it on the green and made a long putt going up the hill. We read that putt perfect and made it.  
 6 is a tough hole, probably my favorite hole on the golf course, par-5. Hit 5-iron there to about eight, nine feet and made a good putt.   
 Then I went to 7, and I hit 3-wood off the tee, then I hit a little 9-iron to about -- I don't know, five, six inches. I don't know how that one missed.   
 Then I went on to 8. 8 was playing long today. I hit driver, 3-wood and then I hit my 63-degree, just bounced it past the hole, spun back to about a foot.   
 Then I bogeyed 9, bad bogey. Just drove it in the fairway, just missed it in the right bunker, hit a good bunker shot and I thought I hit a good putt. It just touched the edge and lipped out.  
 Then 10, I missed the fairway on the right and that's a no-no there. Just didn't get a good lie. I had a tree in my way. I just had to punch it out. I hit a good third shot, but unfortunately I hit a good putt that didn't go in.  
 Then on 11, I pulled my 3-wood in the bunker and I hit a great 9-iron out of the bunker to about five, six feet, made that one.   
 We went to 14, a little dogleg left, I hit 3-wood off the tee. I hit a good 9-iron just past the hole and I hit a good putt that just snuck in the left edge, then almost looked like it was going to come out on the right edge, and then it went in, which I was happy about that one.  
 And then on 16, I hit 7-iron, pulled it a little bit. I was just begging for it to get over the bunker and it did. The green was very spiked up. A long putt down the hill, and I was just trying to get it close, but it happened to go in, which you always take those.   
 18, made bogey. I hit a good drive and I just pushed my 6-iron a little bit just on the fringe, I hit a bad chip -- actually the chip wasn't that bad. I hit it to maybe six, seven feet, and I just pushed my putt.   
  
  Q. Did you learn something last week that's carried over to allow you to continue good play this week?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: That I can play out here, I guess.   
  
  Q. What do you find in this golf course that you particularly like? And now that the course has gotten really wet, what is it that makes this golf course particularly difficult?   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: It's playing long right now, which every time a golf course plays long, it's going to be difficult on that end. But again, the greens are going to -- in this case are soft, so it's easy on that other end.   
 Again, it is what it is. You've just got to put the ball in the fairway because the rough is a little wet, and you're going to have a lot of birdie chances.   
  
  Q. What do you like most about the golf course?   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: What do I like about the golf course? I guess I like when I shoot 65s (laughter).   
 JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER: Thank you, Camilo.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT