AT&T CLASSIC
May 18, 2008
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Good week for you. 
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Yeah, it was. I still made a lot of mistakes. If you look at my stats, a lot of bogeys, a lot birdies. And, obviously, the birdies show good, the bogeys show bad. 
 I got a little more consistent. But, obviously, a good week and happy to have finished where I finished. And I'll keep going.

 Q. Second top ten this year. Do you feel like your game is rounding into form as you come into the summer?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: I just try to have a good attitude every day and just stick to my plan. Hit some good shots, get some new targets. I just hope I can keep it going from here.

 Q. Thank you very much.
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: You got it.

 Q. What was going through your mind at 16, 17, 18? 
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: I am just bummed, it was a little short. But you know what, I wasn't playing very good at the beginning. 
 Then on the 12th green I look at the leader board, I look at my caddie and say, Man we're only four back. We haven't been playing that good today so let's get it going and make some birdies in a row. If I get three birdies in a row I'm going on get back in it. Sure enough I made a long putt there, and I go birdie, birdie, birdie and just got right behind the boys. And it's okay. 

 Q. At 18 you knew you needed an Eagle or at least you want to get one?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Yeah, definitely. I was going in for two. It was going really hard, but it was a matter of not (inaudible) the ball. I kind of looked in which was actually good, stayed a little bit under the wind and it was a great shot. But not my best putt, but made a good one coming back. So it's all good.

 Q. Another close finish. Once again I know you are disappointed but this has got to be-- you got to think of it as a positive?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Obviously, a lot of positives like I said. A lot of birdies, a lot of bogeys and a little bit of a streak I played through at the end but that's just the way this game goes. 
 If you look at the leader board, I was in 15th place, 13th place, all of a sudden I'm in 3rd place. It's just like all over the place. It was so jam packed, anybody could have taken it, and the boys were making birdies at the end and got the results.

 Q. Camilo, thanks. 
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: You got it.

 Q. This has all got to be positive for you?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Sure it is. Every time you have a chance it's positive. And middle 31 on the back on Sundays is always good. So I'll take it, and hopefully I can keep it going from here.

 Q. What clicked for you overall this week.
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: What clicked? That was a good question because it was all over the place. I had some awful shots; I made a great shot; I had awful putts and made great putts. So if that explains it. 

 Q. Did you get the most of your game this week you think?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: You always look back and you look at those 3-footers you missed -- and I missed two on the second round. I think I missed two in the third round. Then it's just golf. I mean, you just got on keep going. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT