WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 2, 2008
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Great playing. Tough conditions today again, too. 
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Yeah, I mean, it was a little more wind, I guess, today than yesterday. The good thing was it wasn't as cool today in the morning as it was yesterday I heard. Anyway, a lot of birdies, a lot of bogeys. The round could have been a lot better, but I'm happy with my putting. I'm still in the middle of it and ready for the weekend.

 Q. What's that like on a course like this because you only had seven pars going into your last hole. 
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Really? I try not to keep track. In the back of your head you know you've made a lot of bogeys, and it kind of pisses you off a little bit. Anyway, the good thing is that I rolled in a lot of great putts, made a lot of birdies, and like I said, I've got to minimize those bogeys and keep it going. 

 Q. That's the good thing, knowing there's a lot of birdies out there. You've got to be hitting the ball pretty good. 
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: It is. The golf course is a little soft, and the rough is not as high as it usually is for sure. There's some birdies out there, you've just got to pick your targets and make good swings. 

 Q. Pretty good day, huh?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Yeah, I mean, it was a good day. Obviously a lot of birdies, a lot of bogeys, too, which kind of pisses you off a little bit. Hopefully I can minimize those mistakes. I believe I'm in the middle of it and looking forward to the weekend.

 Q. To be in one of the best tournaments on TOUR, what kind of confidence does that give you to be on the top of the leaderboard?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: This is a great tournament. I don't even know where I stand or anything. I'm sure the guys this afternoon are going to play some good golf. But I'm just happy to be here. They treat us so good here, and it's such a great golf course and a good field. 

 Q. You've been playing a lot better the last couple weeks. Anything in particular you've been doing?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: I'm just freed up a little bit. Sometimes when you work so hard and try so hard, things become a little bit harder I would think, and little things get in your way and piss you off. I'm just trying to loosen up a little bit. I remember those days when I was a kid and just having fun every time I would go on the golf course. Like I said, I've got to find a balance point, and that's what I've been trying to do.

 Q. Was there a time where you did that, where you had that moment, you know what, I've got to loosen up?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: I guess every guy in this field -- it's so competitive here, and we're just trying to hard to get better and better that at some point you're going to overdo things a little bit, and you've just got to remember it's a game and you've got to enjoy it.

 Q. Was that in Hilton Head when you decided this?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Believe me, I tried, I tried, but it's easier said than done. It's a great game, a tough game, it's a mental game, and you've got to try to have fun with it.

 Q. Did you have fun today?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Yeah, it was good. A little disappointed, made a lot of bogeys.

 Q. Was it a realization you came to yourself or do you work with a sports psychologist?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: I do, I work with Gio Valiante, and obviously he's helped me a lot. It's funny, the mental side of the game is so hard but so simple. I mean, sometimes you just get one little thought, any little thing, as stupid as it can be, and you just stick to that thing and it works. It keeps you loose, keeps you focused, thinking the right stuff. Sometimes it doesn't matter how hard you try, things don't go the right way.

 Q. Do you feel like you put pressure on yourself?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Oh, we all do. I mean, like I said, it's so competitive. We're out here to get better every day, and it's just hard not to put pressure on yourself. I'm not saying I put pressure on myself to win or this and that. I mean, I just try to hit one good shot at a time, but at some point in time you just try too hard. It's trying too hard, you put pressure on yourself and things don't go the right way. Just loosen up and have fun.

 Q. You're in contention now; that's got to feel good. 
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: It does, and that's why we play this game, just to be able to see what we can make, and it's still very early in the tournament. We are halfway there. Actually a lot of the guys still have to go play the afternoon round. I've just got to keep doing what I'm doing.

 Q. This is the kind of course you normally like?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: I try to enjoy every golf course, I can tell you that, because if you stand on that first tee thinking bad things, I believe your spirit is just going to reflect the same thoughts. You've just got to go in with a good attitude.

 Q. Is there anything in particular Gio told you?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: We work on a lot of things. Gio is a great man, and he's really helped me, especially last week in Hilton Head. I put a new putter in the bag and putted great with it the first day and then I kind of lost confidence the second and third round, and it was a key spot where it could go really bad from that point or you can start getting on the right side, and fortunately enough I came back on Sunday morning and shot 30 on the front and made every putt I looked at, and it just felt good. I took the positive in being patient, and I'm playing good this week.

 Q. Do you feel the success of other guys your age, like seven guys in their 20s that have won this year, do you take any --
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Yeah, you know what, it's good to see young guys up there. But the media sometimes goes, "oh, this guy won a major; do you think you belong there?" You know what, we're all working hard. It's a tough game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT