WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 1, 2008
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. The shot on 18, what did you see through the trees there?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Yeah, it was definitely a good one. I don't know why I struggle so much to hit it down the left side. I guess because there's a creek. 
 But I hit it in the right trees. I had a little something there, at least I had a backswing, and then had to hit an 8-iron just kind of over some trees, a little hook, and I hit it in the middle of the green, two-putted and I'm happy with that 4.

 Q. It's a tough finishing stretch, 16, 17 and 18. You missed a short one on 16, but the double bogey early in the round really stunk, didn't it?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Yeah, I think it was the 4th hole I just hit it in the left rough and tried to hit it over a tree and kind of a little thin, hit the tree, and trouble from there on. But I came back and made birdie the next hole and then birdied the next par-5, got it back to even par nice and quick after that mistake and got it rolling a little bit on the back. So 3-under and just looking good, feeling good, and just got to keep doing the same things I'm doing.

 Q. You top tenned at Hilton Head, took last week off from Dallas and are playing very well this week. Do you think you're on a little bit of a roll?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: I'm just trying to be focused. I mean, I'm just trying to control my emotions and make good swings and just make aggressive swings at conservative targets. That's the main thing. It's a tough golf course, and I know there were a bunch of scores under par today, but you still cannot underestimate the difficulty of this track, and I've got to be focused. 

 Q. Just talk about your round today. What was the key for you to score well?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: It was just a good round. I didn't make many mistakes other than that double bogey on the 4th hole, which obviously wasn't too good, but came back and made birdies on the next two par-5s, which was nice, got it back to even, and then made a couple birdies coming in. So happy with the round and just got to keep doing it.

 Q. Talk about the conditions out there. Afternoon seemed a lot tougher for the players today. 
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: It was. The golf course, we had a beautiful day today. The wind was blowing a little bit but not too hard. The greens were not too firm, I mean, with all the water that's been coming down. I didn't make many mistakes, and that's the key to my good game, and the golf course is still hard. 

 Q. You don't talk about winning at this point, but putting yourself in good position, though, it's got to be comfortable. 
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: You always think about winning, but there's a process to winning. After you play a good round on Thursday, everybody goes, what's it going to take to win? Listen, three more days to go, you've got to keep plugging, keep hitting good shots and rolling good putts, so just stay patient. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT