RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 25, 2015
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Camilo, a 5-under 67 in this third round, eagle at 18.  Talk about how you played today.  CAMILO VILLEGAS: Played nicely, not too many mistakes other than the huge drive on No. 7, which I didn't get a bounce and made a great bogey there, and it was fun out there.  It wasn't playing easy.  The wind was swirling in the valley as always.  And it was actually nice to play with Kuch.  He was pretty relaxed.  We were both pretty relaxed.  We were talking all day long.  We were both playing good golf.  So it was a good day out there.   Q.  What about those winds because they're kicking up to some 25 miles an hour for these guys who are going out there right now.  What can they expect?  CAMILO VILLEGAS: Yeah, it's definitely been windy the whole week.  The winds have been similar.  The first day was a little more, actually a little more northwest and today a little bit more southwest.  But I guess the guys know how to play it now since they've seen it a few times except the valley.  The valley goes everywhere. You just take, wherever it's been all day, you go there with a feeling whatever you're feeling at that moment.  But greens, the greens are firm, not crazy, just because of the temperatures rising up, a little more humid.  It softens the greens a little bit.  But it's still not easy.  So obviously you have three par 5s on the back nine, which gives guys a chance.  The pin at No. 13 is pretty tucked in. And you're going to see some good scoring here on 18.  But like I said it was a good day today.  I'll go rest and be back tomorrow.   Q.  Thoughts on tomorrow?  You're 11 under, I don't know what the lead is going to be, but certainly you're going to be in the hunt, especially you talked about the par 5s on the back.  You could make a big run here.  CAMILO VILLEGAS: For sure you could make a big run.  I saw where the pins are going to be the next day on those par 5s, and you can definitely do some damage.  But it's early, man.  It's probably -- the last group probably has almost nine holes to play.  I'm just going to go rest, see what happens and come back tomorrow strong.   Q.  Great round for you today to get right back into the hunt.  What was working for you, especially coming in on 18 there?  CAMILO VILLEGAS: Played nicely today.  I hit the ball good.  I had a lot of tap-in birdies which helps.  Hit some great wedges.  And even though I hit a loose drive on number 17, I managed to make a great bogey there.  Those bogeys after hitting it out of bounds are sometimes bigger than birdies, and a nice little eagle on the last to wrap up the day.   Q.  This course playing any differently today, though, compared to the first two days?  CAMILO VILLEGAS: It's very similar to yesterday.  The temperature went up a little bit.  The humidity went up a little bit, softened the greens a little bit even though they're still pretty firm.  You've got to hit fairways, gotta hit fairways in order to go at the pins.  And it's kind of the same southwest winds like we got yesterday, so the guys know what to expect and we'll see what happens.   Q.  Right now you're three shots off the lead.  Obviously that could change by a few strokes here and there before the day's over.  What's the game plan for you teeing off tomorrow?  Do you try to be a little more aggressive or do you just stay with the game plan?  CAMILO VILLEGAS: I don't know.  Let's see what happens.  I didn't know I was three back and guys are probably going to make a few birdies coming in, with par 5s.  And you just go out there and play your best.  We'll see what happens tomorrow morning and how the scores are in the morning and where the pins are.  We'll take a look at the golf course and just stick with my game plan.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT