PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2007
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Talk about your round.   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS:  It was a good round.  I'm pleased with my result other than a couple easy up-and-downs I didn't get.  But I hit a great putt on 10 and 11 to get started so it would be nice to start with a couple of birdies.  I hit a lot of fairways, hit a lot of fairways, made two or three bogeys that should have been pars, but other than that, it's a solid round and it's not playing easy out there.  The greens are starting to get a little spiked up and be ready for tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Did the heat bug you at all?   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS:  The heat?  It's beautiful out here.  (Smiling).   
 It is hot.  It is pretty warm.  But you know what, everybody has the same thing.  It wasn't too bad the first day, maybe six or seven holes in the morning, but it will be pretty warm tomorrow.  So there's no complaining.  You've got to have a good attitude to win it.   
  
  Q.  On the finishing holes,9 and 18, which one do you think is going to be playing more difficult this week?   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS:  That's an easy answer, that's 18.  The long bunker, second shot is straight uphill, and I think even the greens are a little more severe.  So it will be tough I think.   
  
  Q.  Did you know anything about Markus before your round today?   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS:  Well, I know he plays on The European Tour, and to be quite honest, not much, but he's a great guy.  He had a great round going.  Unfortunately he made a little double there at the end to finish up, but like you said, he rolled some great putts, he kept the ball in play.  I think he made a pretty interesting birdie on the 17th hole.  That was a sweet one.   
  
  Q.  In the trees?   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  When you did get in the rough, did the ball sink or how tough was it?   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS:  It's almost impossible to put it on the green, unless you can kind of bounce it up.  The rough, it just doesn't looking to but the ball just goes bounce, bounce straight down.  And it's so hard to putt spin on it.  Actually you can't put spin out on those lies, so you just kind of take your medicine and hope to make a good par.   
  
  Q.  Is the rough wiry?   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS:  The ball is going to sit down every single time.  So the ball is touching the ground.  It's not floating.   
  
  Q.  Do you think you left any shots out on the course; or under par in a major championship, you're happy with that?   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS:  Well, it's golf.  As players we always think we could have done better.  But there's no complaining.  Like I said, it was a good start for the tournament and very excited to come back tomorrow with a good attitude and hopefully have a great week.   
  
  Q.  You've played in enough majors to get a feel about how different they are from other events; what sort of conclusion have you drawn about what you have to do to succeed?   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS:  Well, they are tough, you have to be patient.  It's all about patience.  You have to stick to your plan, especially on this golf course.  They give you so many options on the tees.  But I think the irons are the smart way.  You make maybe one or two bogeys and then you want to attack the hole and pull a driver, pull a 3-wood and, you know what, you're just begging for another bogey.  So you've just got to stick to your plan and play smart around here.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT