THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 4, 2007
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CHRIS REIMER:  Finally, Camilo Villegas, you're out on the putting green, not sure if you're going to be in the playoff and then you see Boo's putt miss.  Is that exciting, or is it like, okay, let's go; what's your feeling at that point?   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS:  You know what, you've got to feel for Boo.  But it's golf, those things happen.  Unfortunately it didn't go in for him, and it gave us three guys a chance.  I'm sure everybody wants to win as bad as I do, but we've got one more night.  We have to be back at 8:30, and I'll be here to give it my best.   
  
  Q.  Did you actually see the miss on TV?  Where were you when you knew?   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS:  I did.  I was on the putting green.  I went and hit some balls and I went to hit some putts and I was just trying to stay warm.  Started putting my tees in the bag, put the coin in the bag, start loading the bag and everything.  I thought he was going to make the putt.  But like I said, he missed, so it gave the three of us a chance to win this golf tournament.   
  
  Q.  Is 18 a particularly awkward hole for you?  The way it sets up, it seems like you struggled both times.   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS:  Not really.  I like that hole.  It's tough but I like it.   
  
  Q.  What will your approach be tomorrow?  Will you play aggressive, will you just see what happens; how do you do in a four-way playoff?   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS:  I can only control what I do, and that's what I'm going to do tomorrow.  Starting on the 10th hole, it's a good hole, it's a tough hole, and once again, there's four guys.  It's not like I'm playing a match against another guy.  So why focus on the other guys?  I'm going to focus on myself.   
 I'm going to focus on getting a good target on the 10th hole, 10 tee, hitting it down the middle and hitting a good shot to a tough back-left pin, and hopefully rolling a great putt in.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel you have an advantage on No. 10 because of the length and your ability to drive it out there?   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS:  Like Mark said, 8:30 in the morning, you never know what the wind is going to do.  We've had a lot of wind this week.   
 Not really.  I think everybody is going be able to reach that green in two.  Not really.   
  
  Q.  What would a win mean to you?   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS:  A win, well, that's why we play golf, to win.  Obviously some guys do it more often than others.  But I've been working hard.  I've been working hard not only the last year, but the last 12 years.  I wanted to be on the PGA TOUR; now I'm here.  I wanted to win in college and I did.  I want to win on the PGA TOUR; I have a chance tomorrow.  I've always wanted to play Augusta, I've got to say that, and I'm playing Augusta this year.   
 So slowly, I'm accomplishing goals, and like I said, tomorrow I'm going to have a chance to accomplish one more goal.  Is it going to happen?  I don't know.  I'll give it my best.   
  
  Q.  You were the first one in out of this group, and I think you had, what, about an hour, maybe even a little bit more to kill.  How did you go about pacing yourself so that you didn't overdo it on the range or anything like that?   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS:  No, I was very focused.  I felt great all day.  There were a lot of kids out there and it was a little painful not to sign autographs for them, because it's awesome to see so many kids out there and just yelling my name, but first thing's first.  I had to go to the range.  I had to stay warm, hit some balls, and then I want to hit some putts and I was ready when I got on the 18th tee.   
  
  Q.  You had to finish strong to get into this thing.  At the start of the round, were you thinking you had a chance to win this tournament?   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS:  Sure.  It's golf.  It's a tough golf course.  Especially on a tough golf course; you play really good, you can really move up, because there's a lot of potential for other guys to fall back and make mistakes, and that's the way this golf course is.    
 But when I didn't make birdie on 18, I thought I didn't have a chance.  But then those guys struggled and gave us a chance.  And then, like I said, Boo unfortunately missed that putt on 18.  But it was a good day.  Like I said, I felt great and I was very focused, and my attitude was awesome.   
 CHRIS REIMER:  Thank you, Camilo.  Good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT