CANADIAN OPEN
September 8, 2006
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  We welcome Camilo Villegas who followed up yesterday's 1 under 69 with a 6 under 64 today.  Sits at 7 under through two rounds here at the Canadian Open.

Camilo, another nice day today.  Opened up with a bogey and ran off your birdies from there.
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  Yeah.  If you guys would have seen the tee shot I hit on 1, you should have said I would shoot 80.  Managed make a bogey there.  Just had a good attitude towards the day.  I had a great attitude.  I rolled some awesome putts.
TODD BUDNICK:  Jesper said we were supposed to ask you about the tip you gave him.
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  I've been trying to work hard on my swing the last two weeks, trying to make some changes.  There were drastic changes.  So it feels uncomfortable.  It feels uncomfortable.  Talking with Jesper a little bit on the range yesterday about the swing and stuff.

Slowly and slowly it's getting a little bit and a little bit better.  That's all we can hope for.
TODD BUDNICK:  You put yourself into contention for the weekend, which is another thing you always hope for.  Talk about the competition heading into the weekend.
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  Yeah, I mean, we're playing PGA TOUR.  We're playing against the best players in the world.  It's a process.  Got to be patient.  You got to keep doing what you're doing.

I don't know what the weather's going to look the next two days, but I do know there's some great players out there.  We just got to keep doing what I'm doing.  Keep playing golf, keep getting good targets, putting aggressive swings.  We'll see what happens.  Looking forward.
TODD BUDNICK:  We'll take some questions.
Q.  With the wind today, we're seeing generally not as many low scores as we saw yesterday.  Those numbers still seem to be out there.  Do you know why that is?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  I don't know, man.  It wasn't easy out there, I can tell you.  Wind was blowing.  It was gusting.  But I managed to roll some great putts.  That makes up for    that just makes up for it.
Q.  Do you have a number in mind of what it's going to take to win on Sunday?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  No.  Can't even think that way.  I mean, you just got to    like I said, you never know what's going to happen with the weather.  Never know if it's going to dry out, get those greens nice and quick and firm.  So you just got to take it as it comes.  You just got to keep getting good targets, putting aggressive swings, having fun.
Q.  You've probably been asked many times, but how did you pick up golf coming from Colombia?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  Oh, golf, extremely small sport in Colombia.  It's all about soccer.  I was fortunate enough that my dad got me into the game.  He joined a club when he was about 35.  Ever since.
Q.  Could you be more specific with what Jesper told you, what tip he gave you?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  I been working on my backswing, trying to get a little more on plane.  We just got video of some swings and we were just making sure that the club wasn't getting too far across the line.  That's what I was always do, I get the club too much across the line.  So I'm just trying to get it a little bit more on plane.  That's what we're working on.
Q.  As a reasonably young guy, how do you view Jesper?  Did you consider him a smart guy, a guy to talk to about swings?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  The guy has been out here I don't know how many years, but he's been here for a long time.  He's won many times.  I mean, of course there's knowledge behind what he's saying.
Q.  Did it help you at all to become more comfortable with the course when you were here in August?  Did you pick up some ideas there how to play this course?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  Sure.  I got two looks at the track, which is always good.  Came here about, what, a month, month and a half ago, media day.  It was a good day.  It was a fun day.  I got a chance to see the golf course.
TODD BUDNICK:  We'll go through your birdies and the bogey there, Camilo.
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  Let me see.  I don't remember them.  Too many.

Bogey on 1.  Man, awful tee shot.  Actually I had a chance to make par there.  I had about a seven footer, but I hit it bad.

Came back with birdie on 2.  Made a nice putt.

Then I went to 4, the par 5.  Hit a great chip from behind the green, made a good putt.

5, I hit it tight there.  Hit it about five feet, rolled it in.

Actually made a great putt on 6.  Hit the wrong club all the way back in the bunker, got it on the green and made a good putt.

Then we go to 11.  Wow, 11.  Hit a bad tee shot, wrong club.  Then I hit a bad second shot.  I had about 30 to the hole.  I chipped it in, so not too bad.

12th hole, rolled a really nice putt.  Rolled about a 15 , 20 footer kind of turning left.

Then on 15, that might be the longest putt I ever made.  I don't know how long that was, but it was pretty long.

Then on 17, I hit over the green.  I was kind of not in a good spot there.  Made a really stupid putt on that hole yesterday.  Now I just wanted to make birdie somehow.  I told my caddie, You know what, let's just get it on the green and go out with a par.  We're not in a good spot.  I happened to get it on the green and rolled in another nice putt.  Take that one.

Time to go practice.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Camilo.
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT