BUICK CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 2006
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  We thank Camilo Villegas for stopping in at 8 under par through three round here at the 2006 Buick Championship, within three strokes of the lead.  A win during your rookie season I imagine would be a big accomplishment for you, if that were to occur.
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  Sure.  It's been a fun year and a very positive year.  I've learned a lot and still got a lot to learn.  I'm excited about tomorrow, put myself in position to go out there, test my nerves, test my game and hopefully come out on top.  Obviously I'll do my best and we'll see what happens.
TODD BUDNICK:  You got off to a rough start with a bogey on 5 and a double on 7, but you came back with seven birdies over your last 11 holes, a very nice comeback today.
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  Yeah, I was actually very proud of myself today.  Didn't get off to a good start.  Even though I hit a great shot on 5, probably one of the best shots all day but ended up making bogey.  But that's golf.

And a poor hole on No. 7.  Then I chipped in on No. 8 and that got me going.  I was so pumped up, the crowd reacted awesome and they really supported me out there, they really motivated me and I played some nice golf coming in.
Q.  You were in the next to last group when you had a chance before?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  No, I don't think so.  This year I've played    well, FBR, I finished second there I think I was probably the third group from the last, and Doral, probably the same thing.  Then THE PLAYERS, I was behind.  So I don't know where I'm going to be tomorrow.  Maybe they do threesomes due to weather, so if that's the case, I might be in the final group.  That's exciting if that happens.  Bottom line, there's 18 holes out there and doesn't really matter.
Q.  Is this is closest you've been after three rounds?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  What do you mean?
Q.  The closest to the lead after three rounds?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  Oh, I don't know, I don't really think about it that way.  When you have 18 holes, we have a long, long way to go.  I've just got to be focused on every shot at a time, be positive, control my emotions and give it my best.
Q.  Is it realistic coming in your rookie year, what did you think you could do?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  I don't think like that.  You've really got to set goals and you start by saying, okay, I want to go out there and maintain my card and I want to do this and that, but you just cannot set standard for yourself; why would you.  There's a winner every week, there's four major winners every year, and there's a lot of players that play good golf.  But I consider myself a good golfer.  I work hard every day to be one of the best players in the world, so I don't try to set limits.
Q.  Any idea what winning tomorrow would do in your native country?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  I won't think about that yet.  Like I said, we've got a long, long way to go and I'm very excited, happy and proud of myself to putt myself in position.  I'll give it my best tomorrow.
Q.  You had that unbelievable run at the end, could you run that you through that?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  I bogeyed 5 and doubled 7.  5, there's a big hump there behind the pin and hit a decent chip and I missed it about a 6 footer I would say.

7, I pushed my drive in the bunker and I stuffed it from the bunker to the right and I was behind a tree and I'm going, come on, play smart, chip it to the front of the green try and 2 putt to bogey and keep doing.  I chipped it where I wanted, hit the first putt where I wanted and then I happened to miss a really short one.

Next hole I pushed my 7 iron a little bit and I was just in the rough there, but I had a perfect lie.  I just said to myself, man, let's get it going.  Don't ask me why, but I saw the ball going in in my head before I chipped it in.  The reality was that I chipped it in.  The chip in was about 50 feet from the pin but I hit it nicely.

9, in the right bunker and hit a perfect shot with my lob wedge about 15 feet to the right of the pin and I rolled in a nice one.

Hit a great shot on 10.  Just misread that one.

11, I missed the green to the right.  Bad spot, I've done it twice this week, but I hit a great chip again.  Hit a great chip and it just trickled down the middle.  That's my second chip in of the day.

12, the par 5, perfect drive, then I hit a good 3 wood.  I just missed the green to the left right where I needed to miss it if I was going to miss and I hit a great chip there.

13, I hit a perfect drive, 75 yards to the hole, nice pitch and to about eight feet and rolled it in.

14, par, 15, I hit a good 3 wood that just rolled on the green just behind the green.  I actually had a pretty tough shot there I thought about for a while, decided not to go high, I didn't think I could stop it.  So I tried it bump up on to the hill.  It came out a little bit short but I rolled a nice putt there.

16, I hit a good 7 iron just left of the pin where I wanted to hit it and 2 putt.

17, I had a perfect yardage there, full pitching wedge, bounced it a little short of where I wanted but got it all the way up there and just trickled down the middle, so that was nice.

18, I hit a great drive on 18 and the wind just switched on me for that second shot.  I had a full lob wedge and obviously I was swinging a little hard.  The wind changes directions a little bit, spins a little bit and comes out short to not a very good lie in the bunker, but I managed it just right and made par to close the round.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Camilo.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT