BUICK CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 2006
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  We thank Camilo Villega for stopping in after a 4 under 68 today.  Your first appearance here at the 2006 Buick Championship, a place you really didn't get a chance to see very much before you went out there today because of the qualifier this week.  Talk about your first impressions of the course and how you played today.
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  It was a good start, obviously.  I played well.  I didn't make many major mistakes, other than missing a couple of short putts here and there.  The greens are little slow, a little bumpy, a lot of rain.  But overall, I had fun.  The wind blew a little bit and challenged us a little bit there.
TODD BUDNICK:  A difficult week because you were waiting there in D.C. for the qualifier to come, which it never did, which means you didn't get to qualify for the British Open.  Talk about the waiting game with that.
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  I was back home in Colombia for three days, which is good, but too short.  I came to Washington to play the British Open qualifying, but there was no way we were going to play.  It was unbelievable how the golf course and the rain just messed up the golf course.  That's fine.  It happens.  A little bad luck here and there, but what are you going to do, come here and hopefully play good golf this week.
TODD BUDNICK:  Which you have so far.  Questions?
Q.  You're one of the longer drivers on Tour, No. 5, if I remember right.  This course, the emphasis isn't really on driving the ball, is it?  What do you have to do to score on this course?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  This golf course plays firm or firmer than what it is, obviously.  It's very soft.  It hasn't been too tough to drive the ball.  You just hit it and it plugs in the fairway, just rolls two or three yards in the fairway, so that makes the fairways a lot wider in terms of the ball not rolling in the rough.  But there is some rough out there.

The greens have some movement.  They are just a little slow.  But the bottom line, you just have to do what you have to do on every golf course, hit good shots and roll some good putts.
Q.  There was two page spread in GQ, sexiest bachelor.  Have you embraced that kind image and what does that mean for the PGA in terms of marketing you?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  It's been a quick, fast, crazy year.  I've learned a lot.  I'm still getting used to a lot of stuff.  You have to do what you've got to do, and obviously you have to market yourself.  I think those opportunities were nice, they let everybody out there know who Camilo Villegas is.  They know enough about me now and it's time to play some good golf the rest of the year.
Q.  Any difference in the galleries, more young women coming out?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  It's great.  It's fun to see people out there walking with you and supporting you.  I love the support.  I love big crowds, and they motivate me to play harder.
Q.  There are a lot of Gators out here today.  I think there are seven of them.  Did you guys talk or anything before.  I know Buddy came up.  Did you see Buddy today?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  Yes, I had dinner with the coach yesterday.  I have a great relationship with him.  We have got Bret Stegmaier that just graduated, we have Matt Every that just came out of college, Bubba Dickerson, Chris Couch, Brian Gay, Dudley Hart, and me.  Is that seven?  It's fun, it's fun to see Gators out here.  Obviously it's an extremely good golf program and athletic program, a great facility, great coach.  And if you want to play golf for a living, it's not a bad place to go.
TODD BUDNICK:  Let's go through your birdies and bogey there.
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  If I remember them.  Birdied 3, good drive.  It was blowing hard into the wind.  I hit a nice 8 iron to about probably 12 feet, 15 feet.  I pulled that won a little bit.

Then 6 was playing long, a par 5, 3 shot hole, and hit a nice pitch in there to about five feet and made it.

I made a stupid bogey on 9.  I hit a sand wedge and pulled it left of the green.

12 was a nice birdie, too.  Blowing really hard into the wind, a good drive and a really nice 8 iron underneath the wind and made a 10, 12 footer for birdie.

Then I made bogey on 13.  I three putted.  I don't even want to think about that one.

15, hit a great 3 wood, short par 4, bounced in the middle of the green, rolled all the way back there and had a decent putt for eagle, just hit it too hard.

16, tough hole, the wind was a little tricky, but I hit a good 7 iron and rolled a nice putt.

And 18, I hit it in the first cut on the left side.  The ball jumped a little bit.  It actually came up pretty good to about 5, 6 feet short of the hole and just rolled it in.
Q.  (No microphone.)
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  I hit a great shot on 17.  I actually hit a great putt there.  It maybe wiggled a little bit.  Maybe should have played a little more break or something.  It's okay, everybody is going to miss five and six footers, hopefully not to many.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thanks, Camilo.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT