THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 22, 2006
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Were you on pins and needles at all wondering whether you'd get in?  What was that like?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   You know what, I'm just happy to be here and be able to play a practice round at a nice golf course.  What was going to happen, I have no clue.  I can't control what's going on there but I was definitely preparing myself to play this week and hopefully have a fun week.
Q.  So you got here yesterday, you played nine holes, 18 holes?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Yeah, I played nine yesterday and 18 today.
Q.  I'm sure you've played this course before, but not under these conditions, how different is it now as compared to the other times?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Oh, it's tough out there, especially the wind has been blowing the past two days, it's going to be a great challenge.
Q.  What struck you about this course the first time, not this week, but the first time you played it a couple of years ago?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   I don't know, it was always a special day it come out here and play golf that you've watched the tournament many times.
Q.  When did you find out, this morning?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Yeah, I was having lunch and I got a call.
Q.  Pretty good.
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Yeah, I'm looking forward to hopefully a nice week.
Q.  As far as the Masters goes, do you think you can pull this off?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   I can't control numbers out there.  I can only control one shot at a time, look at my target and hit it.  If it's going to happen, we'll find out.

I hope I have a good week but I'm not too worried about it.
Q.  Things seem to be going well for you.
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   It's been a learning process and I will just keep climbing and keep working hard but the reality is we're playing against the best players in the world on the Tour and you have to give all you have.
Q.  What was the process from Sunday, Sunday you had a chance to get into this without getting into the Top 10, when did you find out you were first alternate?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Sunday after I was finished playing.  I decided to go home and spend the day there.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT