FORD CHAMPIONSHIP AT DORAL
March 3, 2006
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  The read on the eagle putt at 8, was it off a little bit or what happened there?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  It was a tough one there.  I didn't know for sure if it was going to go right or left.  I feel like just hit it solid, and I had a good stroke, just pushed it.
Q.  But good stroke on 9.
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  That was a good one, yeah.  That was a tough one to read, too.  I got a little help from my playing partners and finally just figured a little bit left and it trickled in nice.
Q.  So much of the attention the first two days and especially today is on Tiger and Phil; how do you feel to be a part of the mix there at the top?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  I'm just having fun.  It's awesome, the crowd out there has been a joke, I wasn't expecting that many people and so much support.

It just motivates me to keep working hard.
Q.  You and Scott are the only guys that came out of the afternoon group and made a move up there, the winds made it a little tougher    does that make you concentrate a little bit more and maybe you wind up posting as good of a score as you would have in the morning?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  The other way might have got it a little bit easier.  But you know what if you go out there thinking that, what are you doing?  You've just got to hit one shot at a time and take care of business.

I know it's blowing, especially on that 13th hole.  The 13th hole, man, it started blowing hard.  I just try to stay patient, hit one shot at a time, have fun and the crowd really helped me.
Q.  What does that finish do for you?  What does finishing like that do for you?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  I guess it just hopefully, I can keep that momentum going starting tomorrow.  Obviously I wasn't expecting that one on 7.  It dropped from really far, and then I hit great shots on 8 and 9, too, to finish strong.  That's always fun.  That always sends you home and sends to you bed with a nice little smile.
Q.  You're tied for the lead but you're in the second group; is there any particular advantage or disadvantage to being in the group ahead of Tiger and Phil?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  I just don't think about that.  You know what, I like big crowds and hopefully tomorrow we'll have one.  Just, I don't know, I find it a little bit easier to focus and just stick with my game.  I know there's going to be people out there moving, there's going to be noise, but whatever.  I've just got to look at my target and hit it.
Q.  Do you think that leads the news broadcast in Colombia tonight?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  I don't know.  It's the first time that we're running a golf tournament network, just made an arrangement at the beginning of this week, and I was very excited about that.

I hope everybody was watching and hopefully, like I said, just gave some people some smiles.
Q.  Have they been here all week?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  No, they just got here.  They didn't roll the first round and they are starting with today's round.  I'm excited.
Q.  How big is golf in Colombia?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  Small.
Q.  Are you making it a little bit bigger?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  Small, and hopefully we are making it bigger.
Q.  Not like soccer?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  I don't think we can get there (laughter).
Q.  What if you wind up beating Tiger Woods or Phil Mickelson head to head, do you think that will help?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  Oh, we're halfway through, we're halfway through.  Tomorrow is going to be one more day and hopefully it's a good one and then we'll focus on Sunday.

But just like I said, I've been saying it all week, I'm out here having fun.  I have the best job in the world and I'm just trying to keep learning.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT