FBR OPEN
February 5, 2006
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
How was that round today?  How did it feel to you to stay up there?  You're tied for 2nd right now.
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  Yeah, it was fun.  I mean, tried to be very patient, tried to be a little more focused today and the last three days.  Even though I didn't putt my best, kept hitting some bad putts, but played that one on 17 and then hit a good putt there on 18, so I'm proud of myself.  I had a lot of fun this week.
Q.  How key was that to follow up the bogey on 16 with the birdie on 17?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  Oh, 16, I just hit it in that left bunker.  That's probably the worst spot you can hit it.  Hopefully I learned from that one.

Yeah, 17 was a good putt.  I've been moving my head all day long, and I closed my left eye there for that one, and it went down the middle.  So I guess it worked, that one.
Q.  So far this year you've had a pretty spectacular year?  Did you expect that out of yourself?  Or did you kind of think it was going to be a little slower coming, but on the sponsor exemption you've made the most of it?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  Yeah, this week is big for me.  I was, first of all, very focused on that reshuffle, trying to play well at the beginning of the year.  This week will hopefully get me going for the next reshuffle.  I'm just trying to have fun.  I'm trying to learn, and I have.  I feel comfortable out here, but there's a long way to go, a lot to learn, and hopefully the learning process will be quick.
Q.  The young guns are really making a statement this week.  No fear out of you guys.
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  I saw John.  John played awesome.  He's probably going to take it home.  Good for him.  I mean, great college player, great ball striker, and what can I say, congrats.
Q.  How were the crowds with your outfit today?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  I decided to go a little more conservative yesterday.  Yesterday, yellow pants were a little bit too much.  No, they're great.  Like I said, I had a lot of fun.  They were awesome.  It's something I'm not used to.
Q.  Do you hear them?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  Yeah, you hear them, you just try to stay focused.
Q.  Do you hear the women in the gallery?  You have a few girlfriends out there.
CAMILO VILLEGAS:  It was great.  It was great.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT