SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 15, 2015
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   That front nine, a lot of fun this morning, huh?  
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Yeah, obviously I got the putter rolling, hit some greens, hit some putts, and it was a nice score.   The back nine I got some good up‑and‑downs, and nice score.   You know what, the golf course is in great shape.   It's not as windy as it usually is, so you're going to see some nice scores, but I think it's a great setup.  
   
 Q.   I heard the course is kind of playing a little longer than they expected.   The wind is down and you're not getting much chase, but it's a green golf course right now.   
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Yeah, like I said, it's great.   It is playing a little bit longer, but it's still a lot firmer than last week, and the greens are rolling great, so I took advantage of that, took advantage of the flat lies compared with last week.   Not bad.   Happy with the round.  
   
 Q.   The only flat lie you hit last week was on the driving range, and that was it.   
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Yeah, I know.   There's not much grass on it.   
   
 Q.   Did you have a sidehill lie today at all?  
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Not really.   You know, it's pretty flat around here.   You look at the yardage book, the map you're playing says one yard up, one yard down.   It's a pretty flat golf course.   It's a good layout.   You've definitely got to strike good shots here, tight fairways, firm.   Like I said, not a bad way to start the week.   
   
 Q.   Are conditions as good for scoring today as you've seen it here at Waialae?  
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Well, you seen the leaderboard, there's some good scores.   Obviously we're used to having more wind here, but the golf course is in great shape.   It's still on the firm side.   It's still‑‑ greens are fast, and you've got to hit good shots.   Are you going to see a little better scores because of the lack of wind?   Yes, but is it easy out there?   No.   
   
 Q.   When you saw that 29 on the front, were the winds more down?  
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Yeah, obviously I played in the morning, so the wind picked up a little bit toward the back nine, but I didn't really realize I shot 29 until maybe the 14th hole or so that I just said, man, this is a par‑70, I just shot 29 on the front.   It was a nice way to start.  
   
 Q.   This course, it doesn't look like there's, quotes unquotes, easy holes out there, but there's still 65s, 66s every day.   
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Yeah, there's a few holes you can get.   It's not a very long golf course except a few holes.   The first hole is a tough hole.   What is that, the 13th hole is a tough hole.   The 5th hole is not easy if you miss the fairway.   Again, the short holes, if you hit the fairway, you can take advantage, and then you've got some long ones that you can‑‑ if you can play even par, you're doing good.   
   
 Q.   Was the putter working real well the front nine?  
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Obviously the putter was working well the front nine.   I made six birdies and no bogeys.   Any time you do that, you've got to make a few putts here and there.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT