WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2014
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MARK STEVENS:   Camilo, thank you for taking the time to come in.   Shot a bogey-free 63.   If you want to talk about the highlights of the round and we'll have some questions.
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Yeah.   It was nice to go without bogies and I think it probably showed it was a consistent round.   Kept it in the fairway, kept it on the greens and just made the putts when I hit it close.   Only missed one green, 11, got up and down and other than that I think my birdie putts weren't even that long.   I just hit the ball nicely today.

Q.   This is such a North Carolina-centric crowd, Webb Simpson is the local favorite.   Are you prepared to be Public Enemy No. 1 if he's kind of on your heels for the rest of the week or does that not matter?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Webb is a great friend, good player.   He has a good record here.   He's a fan favorite.   If I keep playing good I have no problem being up there and if it's Webb, great.   Remember, there's also 150 players out there trying to play good.   It's only the first day and there's a long way to go.

Q.   Camilo, did you see this round coming or kind of in the making?   What's your take as you were heading into this tournament?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   I had a great week off in Columbia.   Did I see it coming?   Maybe not really.   I just felt good on the range this morning and just kept it going.

Q.   You struggled in the past with following up low rounds.   Why do you think that is and what do you plan to do differently this time around?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Yeah.   I mean I also played a great rounds and played some good ones after that.   It's a matter of just coming out here and playing good golf tomorrow.   It shouldn't be any relationship between Thursday, Friday or Friday, Saturday or Saturday, Sunday.   I'm fine.   I'll be out here tomorrow and play a good round and keep it going.

Q.   Do you hear much of the Spiderman name anymore?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   I do.   I have.   I haven't been doing it as much.   Only on putts go really, really straight, I'm not sure which way it goes. 
The game is funny.   I did it for a long time, try to get a perfect read and it seemed sometimes when you try get too perfect it doesn't go as good.   Right now I'm trying to be a little more free, relaxed and little more reactive, more athletic and natural and seems to work today, actually.

Q.   Is there anything holding you back, putting or ball striking, driving?   What's been the thing you've worked on most maybe?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Just the nature of the game.   Ups, downs, good years, average years, bad years.   And if you ask any player out in the field everybody wants to play better.   The game has been good to me.   I have no complaints. 
Do I want to play better?   Yes.   Do I feel like I have played to my potential the last two and a half years?   No.   But again, it's not everything about golf.   You got to be little bit easy on yourself and just enjoy life.

Q.   Last week when were you in Columbia what -- did you totally get away from the game?   What did you do?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   The clubs were in Jupiter (laughter).   The bike was out.   I was a little recharging, little cycling, no golf clubs and just get away from the game.   I usually spend about eight to nine weeks in Columbia.   This year it's been a long year, very busy year.   I haven't had really two weeks off or three weeks off in the middle of the season and I haven't been in Columbia since December. 
So, I just thought it was appropriate to hop on a plane and see mom and dad and recharge a bit.

Q.   How many miles did you go on your bike?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   I don't know, but it was a good one.   Good active week.   I love it.
MARK STEVENS:   Any last questions?   Thanks for your time.
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   You're welcome. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT