FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 7, 2014
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Six birdies today and two to close for a second round of 64.   Nice work, man.
    CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Yeah.   You know, two of the toughest holes on the golf course.   Nice to finish 3,3.
    I played nicely.   Didn't make mistakes.   I hit the ball a lot better, feeling good and looking forward to the next two rounds.   Hopefully the weather helps.

Q.   You say you're feeling good.   You've only got one bogey in 36 holes around a very tough golf course.   Talk a little bit about how you feel with your game.
    CAMILO VILLEGAS:   It's a tough golf course.   I always played good here and I feel like I've been building up the last three weeks, grip change and I'm starting to cover the ball a little less and hit it more on line which helps and gave myself a lot of chances today and made some putts and rolled good.

Q.   Another little wait before we go out later this afternoon.   What's on the agenda?
    CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Lunch.   I'm hungry.   Maybe go to the hotel, rest for an hour and come back.

Q.   Got to be happy with that bogey-free round today.
    CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Yeah.   You know, it's a tricky golf course.   It's always hard to go around this place without bogies.   I managed to do that today and not only that, I birdied 17, 18, two of the toughest holes, and hopefully the weather will cooperate and we can play some more golf today.

Q.   So you like the momentum, just get right back out there?
    CAMILO VILLEGAS:   It is what it is.   When the weather is like this you have to be patient.   You're going to have to be waiting.   Yesterday was a long wait. 
    This morning I was a little anxious to play some golf and then we get another delay.   But, we finally got out there.   The golf course drained very, very well.   The greens are -- obviously they're not as fast as they normally are here but with the amount of water that came down yesterday, the golf course was in great shape.

Q.   Can you talk about your approach on the 17th?
    CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Yeah.   17 was a great shot.   I'm in the rough just behind the tree and I know this ball is going to jump.   It better bounce short of the green.   Not only that, but I have to hook it out of the rough which is tough especially when the wind is coming straight left to right. 
    I hit a 9-iron that just bounced perfect.   I had about maybe 15 feet for birdie and just trickled it in.   It's one of those 3s you don't really expect but you'll take anything.

Q.   When you get started, Ben Crane has posted a number and you get started that far behind, what's the mindset?
    CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Trust me, I wasn't thinking about Ben Crane at all there.   He played two great rounds of golf.   I mean we only played two rounds.   There's still half of the tournament to be played.   And you got to focus on your game. 
    I knew the golf course was going to be playing a little bit easier than yesterday.   We had it pretty tough yesterday morning when it was windy and firm and you could see when the rain came the guys that played their first round in the afternoon, the scores were a lot better. 
    Obviously the rain made the golf course a little bit easier.   I knew with the rain that came last night it was going to be playing a little bit easier than yesterday.

Q.   Hitting balls --
    CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Yesterday I went and hit balls twice.   Second time I got out there, I kind of knew we weren't going to play.   It looked terrible out there.   That's what happened.   This morning I didn't get to the range.   So it was good.   It was nice -- pretty foggy out.   You knew it wasn't going to go. 
    Since I didn't tee it up yesterday, I was still going to have about an hour, hour and a half when they called it and that's more than enough time to warm up, especially here in this heat. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT