THE MCGLADREY CLASSIC
November 7, 2013
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Missed three fairways, only missed two greens.   Good ball striking day, wasn't it? 
CAMILLO VILLEGAS:   Yeah, it was.   I was rolling it nice today.   It was soft, not much wind.   So it was out there.   I got a great start and kept it going. 
I putted badly maybe on the fourth hole, unlucky there but made a good five.   Just hit a bad shot on par‑3, 6.   So I'm excited. 
Coming back tomorrow, it looks like it's going to be really windy tomorrow and the conditions will be completely different.

Q.   Putting stroke looks good.   That putt you hit there, that 6‑footer on the last hole, that's solid.   You been working on that?
CAMILLO VILLEGAS:   That was a tricky one there.   It had a lot of break.   My first putt was short, but it's nice to make that one.   It was a lot of break in it. 
I've been working on my putting, yeah.   We always do.   We always want to make more putts.   Yeah, we'll see what happens.

Q.   Talked to you at the Frys.   You said confidence level was really high even though you had been away visiting mom and dad.   What about right now?   Where is the game right now?
CAMILLO VILLEGAS:   It's good.   It's good.   I've been working hard.   It's a matter of just putting four rounds together. 
This year I've played good.   I've just had a couple, maybe, I don't know, lose my focus out there and all of a sudden turn an even par round into a 3 or 4‑over par.   And any time you're playing on the PGA Tour, you can't do that out here. 

Q.   With the conditions being so much different tomorrow, how important is it to go out there and put up a good round today like you did?
CAMILLO VILLEGAS:   We'll see what the other players how many holes they get, the afternoon wave.   It likes like it's going to be very different.   I played this place with a lot of wind before, so I don't mind it.   I don't mind it.
But, yes, it's nice to get a good start and be ready for a tough day tomorrow. 

Q.   What's this course like when it gets windy out there?
CAMILLO VILLEGAS:   The fairways are not rolling out all, so it's going to be playing really long and tough. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT