FRYS.COM OPEN
October 11, 2013
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   5‑under par 66.   Second round.   Nice play.  
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   I did.   I played good.   I drove it nicely and rolled some putts.   A little cold this morning.   Not as cold as yesterday.   I heard the boys say it was pretty cold yesterday.  
But got off to a good start.   Parred the 1st; 11 was playing really tough.   Birdied 11, 12, and 13, and that kind of got me going.  
   
 Q.   16 of 18 greens.   You got to be pretty happy with that.   Ball‑striking also 10 of 14 fairways.   
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Was it?   I knew I drove it good.   I didn't know I hit 14 ‑‑ or I hit 16 out of 18.   That's good.   Just got to keep doing what I'm doing.   
   
 Q.   What's difference between your performances in 2013, what you've been experiencing in your career?   What's the difference in 2013 season?  
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Yeah, 2011‑‑ 2012 was really tough.   This year was better.   Especially at the end.   I finished more consistent, making cuts and then just didn't get it done on the weekend.  
I'm feeling comfortable.   I just went home for four and a half weeks in Colombia.   Spent some time with mom and dad took it easy, which always helps my mind.  
   
 Q.   You missed only two greens, just like you did yesterday.   How would you best describe your play today?  
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Yeah, missed two yesterday and two today.   That's pretty solid on a golf course like this one.   Yesterday it was windy yesterday.   It was a little tricky.   This morning it was cold, but I managed to get off to a great start.   
That 11th hole was playing tough.   I chipped in there and that kind of got me going.  
   
 Q.   2012, not last season, but last year, you went to Q‑School and didn't retain your card.   On a limited amount of starts in 2013, you not only got your card back, but you played into the playoffs.   Do you have a lot more optimism about this season coming off what you did?   
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Well, I can definitely set my schedule a little bit better.   No, last year, 2012 was ‑‑ you got to have those years, too.   You learn a lot.   
This year I was treated very, very nicely from all the sponsor and the tournament directors.   I got plenty of starts.   I got my chances.   I knew the ball was on my court.   I had to perform and get it done.  
Like I said, sponsors and tournament directors gave me the option to do that.   I finished, a lot more consistent toward the end.   Spent four and a half weeks at home with mom and dad, and that's always good, the recharging, good for the mind, and now we're here.   
   
 Q.   Finally, what did you learn in 2012 that you think benefited you this year?  
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Too many things.   Like I said, those tough years are sometimes are good in an athlete's career.   Obviously we all want to play better every time, doesn't matter if you're in the back of the pack or the front of the pack.   
But you learn about yourself, you learn about life, and you just know you got to keep grinding.   
   
 Q.   Off to a great start.   Thank you for your time.   
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Thank you.   
   
 Q.   I know last year you got off to a pretty good start.   How do you keep consistent now that you got off to a good start this week?  
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Just got to keep doing the same thing I'm doing.   I hit the ball nicely the last two days and rolled some putts.   Got to keep doing the same thing I'm doing.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel about the different schedule this year?   You look at it any differently?   They're calling it the Finchem Calendar like the Mayan Calendar.   
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Do I look at it a little different?   Let me tell you, you can't complain about it.   There are more tournaments that count.   There is more money.   There is more opportunities for us out here.   
So if look at it from a business point of view, Finchem is doing a great job to keep growing this TOUR and giving us players and sponsors more opportunities.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT