CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK HOSPITALS CLASSIC
November 10, 2012
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   First three days I thought you struck the ball really well.   Were you pleased today with your ball‑striking?  
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Yeah, I didn't hit it as good today.   It kind of got away.   You know, I had a lot of long putts and kind of get 'em nearby, just two‑putt, two‑putt, two‑putt.   
I think it's okay.   I didn't look much at the leaderboard today.   Again, you have 18 holes left tomorrow, and I just got to worry about what I'm doing.   
   
 Q.   You're right there.   A good round tomorrow and you could win this thing.   
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Like I said, I haven't looked even at the leaderboard so I don't know where I stand.   
But, yeah, any time you're up there in the top 10, which hopefully I am, you come on Sunday with a good one and you can take a trophy.  
   
 Q.   Do you study that at all?   Do you go study the scoreboard now or where you stand?   Do you worry about things like that?  
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Well, not too much this week.   I usually do, but like I said, I didn't look at the leaderboard all day.   I have no clue where I am.   
Of course I'm going to know where I am for tomorrow.   Of course I'm going to look at the leaderboard.   Am I going to study and try break it down in?   
Not really.   I mean, I just got to keep playing hopefully the way I hit it today and get a good one.  
   
 Q.   You got a big gallery following you.   I would think tomorrow the momentum seems to be going in your direction.   Do you feel that?  
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   I've done a lot work the last two months.   I can only control my attitude and how I portray myself out there and how I handle my emotions.  
If I can keep doing what I'm doing, I think I can put a good one.   
   
 Q.   10‑under par through three rounds.   You're in great position.   How much does your position at 150 on the Money List inspire your play this week?  
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Well, you know what, I've been doing a lot of work the last few months, and it's definitely showing.   Last three tournaments I had a chance to do something special; I just didn't capitalize on it.   
This week I'm playing good.   Did not hit it as good as the last two days but got away with it.   Going to hit a few balls on the range and come back tomorrow with a good attitude and keep it going.  
   
 Q.   Since 2006 you've not had to worry late in the season about your status for next year.   This year here you are competing in the final event of the year as well as (indiscernible) second stage of Q‑School.   What has been your biggest battles this year?   
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Well, we sometimes take little things for granted and the game comes and bites you.   It's easy to have good attitude when you're playing good; a little bit harder when you're playing bad.   It just kind of snowballs a little bit.   
I was a little miserable at times.   You know what?   Life is good.   We have a great job.   A tough one, it's stressful, but it's good one.   I just told myself, You know what, there is no need to be miserable.   The little things can't be bothering me so much.   I just started working a little bit more on not only my game but my attitude and my mental side.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel right now?   You seem like you're very concerned.   
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Oh, no.   Like I said, I didn't even look at the leaderboard all day.   I have no clue where I am.   There it is, 13‑under leading.   That's fine.   
I'll come back tomorrow and put a good one and see what happens.  
   
 Q.   So what's your mindset for tomorrow?  
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Same thing.   
   
 Q.   Good luck.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT