CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK HOSPITALS CLASSIC
November 8, 2012
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You open the round with a bogey on the Palm Course.   You get yourself behind the eight ball and then make eight birdies.   Talk about the round.  
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Well, not really.   32 holes, you open with a bogey, you've still got a lot left.   But I was very patient today.   You know, it was cold for a Colombian out there the first few holes.   And then it heat up a little bit.   I made some great long putts and just kept it going.   Again, I was in the present.   I was very patient, and a very nice round.  
   
 Q.   Have you felt the putter coming along?   You say you putted well today.  
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   I did.   I definitely putted really nice today.   I've been working a lot.   I've been working on many little things.  
You know, this game is a tough one.   It plays with you a little bit, and it's time to just play with the process and get going and have fun with it, because again, even though it gets tough out here sometimes, we're very fortunate to do what we do.   
And it was a nice start and we'll keep working on it.  
   
 Q.   Were the putting problems that you're working on more mechanic or mental?  
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Oh, let me tell you, this is a very mental game.   Just when you think you figure something out, something comes back and bites you.   So it's interesting.   It's interesting the way I putted today because I have been working a lot on many things, a lot of them mental.   Just kind of enjoying and having more fun out there.   That was definitely what happened today.   
I was really patient.   I was just enjoying.   I had a great paring.   Gary Woodland is a good friend of mine.   And like I said, even though I three‑putted the first hole, I made some good ones coming in.  
   
 Q.   Good to see you smiling again.   
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   I know, man.   Life is good.   Sometimes we beat ourselves a little too much and there's no need for that.  
   
 Q.   Thanks for your time.   Good luck.   Have you been picking it up a little bit?   Have you been playing better.  
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Yeah, definitely.   A few little changes and changed the shots on my club, changed the ball, changed the cards.   So equipment wise there were a few changes there.   But the biggest change is definitely mental and attitude.   
Sometimes we take certain things for granted, and that's what happens.   The game comes and kind of bites us and the last year and a half hasn't been pretty, hasn't been too much fun, I can tell you that, even though I kept putting the hours and the hours.   You know what, sometimes it doesn't matter, you put those hours and you're not having fun, you're not going to get much out of it.   So I've definitely changed a little bit the attitude, and yes, I've been playing a lot better and now only having more fun.  
   
 Q.   And happier?  
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   You know what, sometimes you just wake up in the morning and you look at yourself in the mirror and you say, you know what, life is good and why am I miserable.   And I think there were a couple times where I just made certain decisions that I kind of knew I was wrong, and I was like, you know, what's going on.   That's just not me.   I mean life is good.   Why ‑‑ again, why am I going to be miserable about certain little things, because that's what happens when you're playing bad.   I mean the little things just get under your skin.   And again, I've had a great attitude the last few months and I've been really close the last three tournaments, I had great chances.   I didn't really capitalize on them, but we get off to a good start and we'll keep it going.  
   
 Q.   Are we getting under your skin right now?  
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Not really.   You're one of the things that I am a lot more patient and the little things don't bug me.   So that's good.  
   
 Q.   Tell us about your round.   
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Finished, you know what, 8's a tough hole.   I think I birdied ‑‑ you see, I don't even remember which holes I birdied.   I birdied 6, 7, 8.   Don't even ask me how.   I know 8, I had a long par, par‑3.   I had a really hard 5‑iron and got a good bounce on the green and made a good putt.   
And 9, I know that back left pin is a little tricky.   It can come and bite you.   We weren't really sure where the wind was just because we got that building there covering a little bit and those trees.   It's been blowing from the north all day and we think it's coming from the right but it feels like it's coming from the left.   You've got water on the left and just tried to hit it in the middle of the green and two‑putted.   
   
 Q.   Last time you had that conversation with yourself, why are you miserable, was that a couple months ago?   During the FedEx break?  
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Oh, man.   I don't know.   You know what, it's funny how ‑‑ we're very fortunate to do what we do.   But you start getting hard on yourself.   Not that you're miserable.   You're too hard on yourself.   I mean you want the best, especially I'm a hard worker, I'm a very passionate guy.   But I beat myself a little bit too much sometimes.   And when you beat yourself a little bit too much, there's little things that make you miserable.   
And when was the last time?   When did that get going, that conversation?   I don't know, but I just kept reminding myself how good life is, and it got to the point toward the end of the year where, trust me, people remind you, hey, you know what, you're 115 on the Money List, and I'm kind of like, life is good.   Just keep going.   If you're good at this game, if you are out, you will be back in.   I mean who knows.   Just take it one shot at a time.  
   
 Q.   Did you have high hopes for this year after a good finish to last season?  
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   I did.   Yeah.   You know what, and I got to a pretty good start.   I went to Bob Hope, and I think I shot 9‑under the first round.   
But just things just never clicked after that.   I grinded it out last year, trust me.   It wasn't pretty, but I got it done during the PLAYOFFS, and I was unhappy missing the PLAYOFFS this year.   So again, time for me to kind of regroup and start playing a little better.  
   
 Q.   Was there any injury, illness at all during this stretch, anything that threw you off at all?  
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Nothing serious.   I did pull my back, what was it, I had to withdraw from Hilton Head.   I should have not teed it up there.   I pulled my back on the range there, first day, cold morning.   But I love that place.   That's one of the best venues we play all year.   And I went ahead and teed off.   It wasn't pretty.   Went down to Wellington and worked with a guy for about a week and a half and I quickly got back on track.   So no, I've been very fortunate to be healthy.  
   
 Q.   Obviously you referenced that it matters about where you are on the Money List.   But the reality is I'm sure uh thought through, wherever you finish, you're probably going to get plenty of starts.   You've won on TOUR.   People know who you are.   Does any of that factor into ‑‑  
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Well, I think the ‑‑ yes.   More starts have crossed my mind.   But they probably should because at the end of the day, it's having fun and just getting it done, just being out there.   And like I said, I've proved myself that I'm a good player.   I've proved myself that I belong on the PGA TOUR.   I've proved myself that I'm a PGA TOUR winner, and I've done it before, so why not do it again.   And I am not only talking about this specific week.   I'm talking about just if it happens to be Web.com or who knows.   I mean I'm just going in every direction, but my mind is just trying to enjoy playing.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT