RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2012
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Very nice round of golf.   Seems like it began about 90 hours ago, but you got off to a great start.   
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Yeah, I birdied the first three, and par‑4, which is a birdie hole, and I birdied 6 and 7.   So, yeah, I kept the ball in play.   
I missed a couple shots there coming in and made kind of a silly bogey there on I guess 14, but overall a good round.   Good putt on the last two to save a par after a really, really bad lie there in the rough after my second.   You know what?   It's good to post a good score and to have numbers to be in contention.   Looking forward to the weekend.  
   
 Q.   Been a while since you shot 64.   You've been known to go deep, but that's a nice number.   
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Yeah, it's been tough the last year, year and a half, but it's the nature of the sport.   We keep battling, trust me.   We wake up every morning trying to get better.   Sometimes it's a lot of fun, sometimes it's a little more struggling.   But overall, it's a great job.   I love what we do, and I'm looking forward to the weekend.  
   
 Q.   Very nice couple of shots at 17 from in the rough, and then 18 in the rough.   Rough is getting deeper, isn't it?   
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Yeah, I hit a great drive on 17, and I was just off.   I was hoping for a little better lie.   I got a little shaky one.   But went ahead to try to hack it with a 5‑wood.   Hit a good shot to the right and a great pitch to make birdie on the hole after I felt like I deserved one there.   
   
 Q.   18, you're ten feet off the green.   
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Yeah, that was a tough one.   The ball was sitting really, really deep.   The spotter was having a hard time knowing exactly where it was.   But I left myself in the right spot at the right edge putt up the hill and hit it nice and firm in the middle.  
   
 Q.   This golf course is a lot like that though.   You have to leave it in the right spot because the greens are tilted.   
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Totally.   It gives you options though.   It's not the most long golf course, but the greens are severe.   You want to keep it below the hole, and it's such a big difference putting uphill or putting downhill.  
   
 Q.   You sound excited going into the weekend.   That's good to see.   
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Yeah, any time we're in contention, that's what we play for.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT