TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 23, 2012
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Camilo, what a nice way to start your Saturday morning.  
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Yeah, it was.   I've been playing good the last few rounds, and one bogey the first start of the tournament, and just played 18 holes without a bogey, which is nice.   Six birdies, 6‑under.   
Right there in contention.   Top of the leaderboard.   Golf course is a lot softer.   You can shoot at pins.   It's going to be interesting this afternoon.   Hopefully the weather stays away and we can finish our third round.  
   
 Q.   You hit 13 greens.   You had 24 putts.   That's a really nice combination.  
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Nice.   Yeah.   24 putts.   I hit a lot of good putts.   Obviously 24 is a great number.   But I feel like I'm hitting the ball good today.   I missed a couple greens yesterday on the edge, but that's nice.   Nice to be able to control the ball and play some good golf.  
   
 Q.   Course had to be much more receptive, especially the greens this morning.   
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Yeah, it was.   It was a little more softer, but at the same time we were getting a little mud balls there, and it played a little longer.   So it was very nice the way it was playing yesterday, but hopefully the sun stays out, a little wind picks up, it dries out and we can have two good rounds.  
   
 Q.   You know, I'm looking at some of your stats and they don't correlate with how you've finished in tournaments.   Have you been not quite scoring as much as you would have hoped out of your rounds?  
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   To be very honest, it's been a tough year.   I haven't really looked at stats.   I'm just trying to see the shots more and just get creative and don't get too technical out there.   
And last two, three weeks I've made a lot ‑‑ actually the last month and a half I've made a lot of progress, and about a week and a half ago I said okay, I've worked enough on the technical.   Let's feel like I'm going to move the ball and see the shots and play like a kid again, and it's worked out.  
   
 Q.   Play well this afternoon.  
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Thanks.  
   
 Q.   Thanks very much.   6‑under 64.   You made one bogey all week, so you're going in the right direction, aren't you?  
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Yeah.   I just gotta keep it going the same way.   I am hitting the ball a lot better, and made a lot of progress the last month and a half, and then finally about a week and a half ago, I said, okay, no more technical thoughts.   Let's just have fun in this game and play golf like I was a kid again.   See the shots, hit it, react.   And hitting the ball good, putting good, and nice to be up there.  
   
 Q.   Yeah, because in your own words, you said it's been a tough year.   It was like, okay, where is this guy who won three times; where was he, and I guess you were asking the same question?  
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Yeah, you know what, it's just a crazy game.   Sometimes I go to bed asking myself the same question because I know it's not lack of effort.   I work hard enough, and sometimes maybe a little bit too hard, a little too hard on myself.   And you feel a little stress.   You feel a little anxiety, and you just want it so bad that you just can't let go.   And funny enough, you loosen up a little bit, just relax, enjoy it a little bit more, like I said, play like a kid and you start playing better.  
   
 Q.   So where is your mindset for today, because I imagine you probably woke up at about 4, 4:30 and now you're going to be here till 7, 8:00 tonight.  
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   4:15 was the wake‑up call this morning.   So it was an early one.   But let me tell you, there's a lot of things where I feel like I'm very young, but there's things where I feel like I'm old, and going to bed is one of them.   I was in bed at 8:15 last night.   So I got my good eight hours in, and I feel good.  
   
 Q.   Excellent.   Thanks for your time.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT