OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 24, 2011
Manuel Villegas
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   So just a fun day out there with your brother, right?  
MANUEL VILLEGAS:   It was good.   Wind was blowing pretty good and the course is playing nine miles.   The wind is heavy.   It's not very warm out.   There's no roll in the fairways, and, it's what, 7,500 or 7,600.   The course is playing long but we had a good day and hit some good shots.  
   
 Q.   What do you like most about playing with Camilo out there as a team?  
MANUEL VILLEGAS:   It's just good.   He's my brother, so feels comfortable.   I've played with him for 15, 20 years already in this game.   You know, he kind of knows how I play.   He can give me some good advice.   
   
 Q.   Will that give you guys an advantage tomorrow, knowing how you play, but you still have to execute‑‑  
MANUEL VILLEGAS:   At this point you still have to hit it.   You can know each other, but if you don't make them, that's not going to help.   But it will help on some of the shots, and he can help me out‑‑ I can help him out a little bit.   Should be fun.  
   
 Q.   So which one of you guys got to pick the gear out today?   
MANUEL VILLEGAS:   He did, actually.  
   
 Q.   What do you have tomorrow for us?   
MANUEL VILLEGAS:   I don't know.   We'll see.   
   
 Q.   What do you like about playing with your brother out there?   You guys have played with each other, like you said, about 15, 20 years now.   
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Yeah, it's exciting to be representing your country with your brother.   It's not only that you're representing your country, you're representing your family.   There are two other brother teams out there, the defending champions, the Italian brothers and that was pretty special to watch on TV.   
You know, a lot of great teams are here, but if you're not playing, then you can't win.   If you're playing, you have a chance.   So obviously we'll be working hard and have some good rounds coming the next three days.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT