BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 15, 2011
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Good start for you today.   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Yeah, it was definitely a good scoring today for me. It was tough out there, even though a few guys went really low. I had some interesting tee shots and battled hard, took advantage of the great par saves and made a bunch of tough putts. Very, very happy with the score.  
  
  Q. You know where you stand obviously to advance to next week, and this is what you had to do, get off to a fast start. Don't you agree?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Well, yes and no. At the end of the day, you've got to add them up at the end of the four days. Sometimes you start fast and keep going fast; sometimes you start fast and slow down and sometimes you start slow and get it going. Who cares where you are right now; it's all about just playing good golf from here the next three days and hopefully advancing.   
  
  Q. People have a lot of negative opinions about this course. You seem to have found some type of answer here. You've played well here the last three years, I think.   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: I have, yeah. I play good here. It's a tough golf course, and like you said, a lot of the golf courses out there have negative comments about it.   
  
  Q. Do you find it positive?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: In which way?   
  
  Q. Your success and your results, right?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Well, I've played good. Like I said, I've definitely played good on this golf course.  
  
  Q. Well, in this tournament, too. You won at Bellerive.   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: I won at Bellerive, yeah, totally different golf course, but I know I need a big week this week, and it's nice to get off to a good start, and we've just got to keep it going.  
  
  Q. You've got pretty good momentum coming in. Have you found something?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: I definitely feel a lot better. A lot of people have asked me that same question. Being honest, it's a funky game, crazy game. Who knows? I've had a great attitude all year through the bad times and the average times, and now I've been playing a little better. I'm excited and just got to keep it going. It's definitely a lot more fun, makes the job so much more fun.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about your putting today? You made several long putts.   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: It was, it was nice. I made a lot of tough putts. I missed a couple easy ones, but that's okay.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT