THE BARCLAYS
August 27, 2011
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. It's almost good news, bad news. The good news is you had a spectacular day and you played your way into the Deutsche Bank. Now you just have to wait and hope that the weather holds off and that guys finish.   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Well, I hope, so we might get lucky. Who knows what's coming. But yeah, it was a nice week. It was an interesting week. I didn't hit the ball very good the first day, and I kept hitting it better and better throughout the week.   
 I left a few out there yesterday and I left a few out there today which are a little painful, but definitely heading the right direction. Last week was a good week and hope to keep it going.  
  
  Q. Your game is starting to come around and starting to peak at the right time, apparently you just like the Playoffs.   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: You know what, it's not fun when you are not playing good. So it's about time to turn it around and play some good golf and have more fun.   
  
  Q. That's exactly what it seems like, it's one of those things where it's just not fun to play the game sometimes, but you've just got to be patient and when it starts coming around, you feel like, I remember this guy.   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: I know, it is a crazy game, it's so mental and so crazy. But it is what it is. We all go through good times, bad times.   
  
  Q. Is there in this case in particular that you think you found last week?   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: I don't know, definitely I've been a little more nervous, but at the same time, a little more, how do you say, I mean, feelings are a little stronger. I get out there and I get mad a little bit more but I get excited a little bit more.  
 And I know sometimes some people say, hey, just be very level and everything and I think it's a good thing for me right now. Gets a little more exciting, because it has not been a fun year and it's been a grind, and the last two weeks were fun. This week, it's killing me a little bit to know how bad I putted the last few days. I hit the ball so good the last two days and hit so many iron shots close that I know I left some out there.  
 But it is what it is and hopefully I can stay there in the top five. It doesn't look like it but maybe a top ten, and we can keep going.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT