MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2011
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. (No microphone.)
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: It was good. I only hit it in one really bad spot today, which was the right bunker on 10. Other than that, I just took my medicine and made my five. I played safe. I was kind of calm. 
 I got off to a shaky start with a bogey on 1 from the middle of the fairway and just kept my composure. And this golf course, I learned some things, you still have to have a good game out here, but experience helps a little bit. And I tried to not short side myself and put myself in hard positions. So it paid off a little bit. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: It's a funny game. We're always trying to get better, we're always trying to improve. And we go through good times, bad times, we go through times where the confidence is really high and we go through times where the confidence is not so good. You just got to be patient. 
 You see it all the time where guys play good and they play bad and then the other way around, play bad and then play good. So, yeah, it hasn't been my best round of the year, but maybe I just, I'm maybe not feeling the best, but you got to go out there with whatever you have. You got to battle, you got to grind, you got to play the course. And I think that that's kind of what I did today. I was patient all day. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: The first few years I really thought about it a lot. More than anything it was just the golf course, it's just a golf course that you got to respect it, but you can't fear it. 
 And my second year, I played a lot better just with that in my mind. And the reason why is because there's a lot of trouble out there, but there's a lot of holes for birdie. 
 And I got on a stretch there where I made birdie, 13, 14, 15, and I hit a really good putt on 16 and I should have birdied that one. I pulled my putt a bit. 
 But you just got to be careful and you got to play with patience and you got to know when to go and when to back off.

 Q. You said you haven't been feeling the best. Physically or just about the way things are going?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Well, you know, it's a little bit of everything. When I started trying -- let me reword that. You know, we always try to do stuff and get better. Sometimes the stuff you do to get better doesn't really end up like that. It's just like running a business, you run a business, you make the decision, sometimes it's good, other times it doesn't work. 
 And at the end of last year and then the beginning of this year, believe it or not, I said, okay, I need to work harder, I need to work a lot harder. And I just tried a little bit and I got off track and things weren't going the way I wanted them to go at the beginning of the year. 
 But like I said, I'm looking forward to the rest of this week, I'm looking forward to the rest of the year, and looking forward to having a long and nice career. 

 Q. What's your state of mind coming in this week and what did today do for that?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: It's Augusta. I really enjoy it. It's a great show here. Who doesn't want a Green Jacket? 

 Q. What were the conditions like out there?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: I believe there's going to be some low scores. I played really early where the ball was going nowhere, so it made the first few holes long, but the greens are a little bit on soft side. 
 And that happens every day out here. You get the guys that go off early and then you get the guys that go off late and the greens get definitely a little more crusty and a little firmer. So, but the ball goes a little farther so you're hitting less club into the greens. 
 So, I don't know, is it an advantage to go early or late? Who knows. At the end of the day you just got to be looking forward to stepping on that first tee and playing some good golf. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: No, I just didn't get a chance to say hi, but I saw her there. 

 Q. Was there anything about your game when you were putting in the extra work that you were trying to change?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Yeah, I was trying to -- I was maybe messing a little about with my swing a little bit more than I wanted. And then funny enough, I went to my instructor and he said, "Are you sure you want to know more about your swing?" And I said yeah, and I'll call it my fault. He's a good man and we are still working on it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT