THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 2, 2011
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about how tough the course is playing.   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: It's windy out there today. And looking at the forecast, it looks like Thursday, Friday will be really windy and we have got some rain coming for Sunday. So it is going to be challenging. This golf course is always tough, and it tests our game, tests our emotions and I'm looking forward. I thought I played good here before, and hopefully we keep it going.   
  
  Q. Brings back good memories?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Definitely. It's the first time I played since winning last year, and you hit in certain spots and you remember the good shots and the good memories from last year.   
  
  Q. Talk about your year, you've had some changes between equipment and caddies. How do you assess your year?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: It's been a little slow, but it's the game of golf. You just have some good times and bad times and looking forward to the rest of the year. Just get things going and start putting myself in position to win some golf tournaments, because that's what I do. That's why I play golf.  
  
  Q. Do you think coming back here can bring it alive for you?   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: I don't see it -- I don't see it that, oh, man, it's going to start here. Everything is a process. You don't win from the middle of nowhere and you don't get bad from the middle of nowhere. Everything happens for a reason. So you just have to keep going and keep plugging and keep getting better every day.  
  
  Q. How is your confidence level right now?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: It's definitely a lot better than it was a month ago, so I'm excited.  
  
  Q. A course with certain shots you have to hit no matter what the wind does, but will it change the way you play?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Oh, big time. It's actually nice to play this second nine, hitting a lot of shots into the wind and trying to keep it low, turning it a little bit and just play with the ball, because that's what you've got to do the wind.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT