QUAIL HOLLOW CHAMPIONSHIP
April 29, 2010
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CAMILO VILLEGAS: Definitely not an easy golf course. The wind was tricky. It was tough to tell exactly where it was coming from. That we played 18 holes here with no bogeys makes me proud, and I hope to keep going.  
  
  Q. As good as the birdies were today, you had five of them on your card, this is a golf course where pars are pretty important, too, aren't they?   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Definitely a lot of tough holes out there, especially the finishing holes. I thought the par-5s were great. I hit the green in two several times and gave myself a chance for eagle. It's key around here. But still, those par-5s can get tricky. You drive it bad off the tee, and all of a sudden you can make a quick 6.   
 But definitely a good round, not an easy golf course out there. The wind was tricky, the greens were fast. To play 18 holes around here with no bogeys is pretty good. Just got to keep doing the same things, stay patient, and see what happens.   
  
  Q. (Question regarding the par-5s.)  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Yeah, I did. First par-5 is the 5th hole. I hit it just over the green. I had an easy chip there and chipped it to about three feet.   
 Then on 7, I actually pushed my driver and got away with it there. There's some rough stuff there before the creek. Hit a great hybrid cutting in there. Hit my first putt a little hard but made it coming back from about five feet.  
  
  Q. Where were you in relation to the pin?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: I was just behind the hole a little bit left. I was perfect. I had a great look at it, and I just hit it a little bit hard but made it coming back.  
 Then I went to 10, and great drive, nice 3-wood there, cutting on the green. I hit a great putt. I thought I made that one for eagle, but it just didn't break at the end.   
 I parred the other one. I gave myself a chance. I hit it right in front of the green, and just left my chip a little short and didn't make the putt.  
  
  Q. Talk about putting yourself in position, just to get that going.   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Yeah, you definitely want to put yourself in position on Saturday, but still a lot of golf to be played. But yeah, it's nice to play -- I played good. Gives you a little confidence, makes you want to be here tomorrow and Saturday, and like I said, put yourself in position Saturday afternoon and even Sunday afternoon to give yourself a chance to win the golf tournament.   
 But like I said, a lot of golf to be played.  
  
  Q. How are the greens rolling out there?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Fast, man. They're fast. Obviously late in the day you get some spike marks, and you've just got to be careful, because with the rain that came down on Tuesday, they're just not extremely firm, and you get a little bumpy here and there.  
  
  Q. Talk about playing bogey-free. How hard is it to get to the end?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Nice. I was thinking about that one on the 18th after -- especially on 18 when I hit my second shot -- my second shot was not a great shot. It was actually a pretty bad one. The third was special. It was a great shot, and I was thinking about it, that I didn't want to make a bogey.   
  
  Q. 16, did you chip that too hard?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Yeah, I did chip that one a little hard. I saw it roll past the hole, I got a good read and put a good stroke on it.  
  
  Q. You're a guy that likes to work the ball both ways, play low, high shots. This is a great course for you, a course you can work it both ways?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: It's a tough golf course. If you like moving it around and you can move it around, it's good. I mean, when you're in trouble, those shots come in handy. But again, I just like being a little creative. I like having fun when I'm out there, especially when I'm feeling good. I like to move the ball a little bit.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT