WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2010
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   CAMILO VILLEGAS: It was nice to see a lot of people, a lot of Colombians, a lot of Latin people, and makes it exciting. I told Phil, I said it looks like we get to play every year here, and it's been fun. 

 Q. How much did you feed off that over the course of the day? You're not unaccustomed to seeing crowds here, but today was probably even more than usual, even for you. 
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: It was nice. Special place for me. Every year they keep coming and coming and supporting me, and that's awesome. It's what I said earlier in the week; you have to enjoy it, but you've got to stay committed and you've got to be careful, because it can be a little distracting. 
 So just pick your targets, put good swings and stay patient. 

 Q. What happened on the double and talk about how you came back from it?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Yeah, definitely not my best. I don't know, I played pretty good. I never got in trouble. I kept the ball in play. I rolled some great putts that I wish they would have dropped one or two more, but that's golf. 

 Q. How unfun was the wind today? 
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: What? 

 Q. How unfun was the wind?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: I love it. As long as it blows for everybody, I have no problem.

 Q. Just try to sneak under it? 
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Try. 

 Q. You talk about concentrating on major championships next; how do you feel about the way you're playing this season, leading into the Masters? 
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: It's been a good year. Still got, what, three, four weeks before Augusta, and just try to keep doing the same thing I'm doing. It's one more golf course, and you just have to approach it -- you have to respect that place, but you can't fear it. So just, again, pick your targets, put good swings and stay patient. 

 Q. Generally in golf in the last several years, the conventional wisdom is guys hit their prime in their 30s, but a lot of guys under 30 like yourself -- can you talk about guys winning and contending? 
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: There's definitely a lot of 20-something-year-olds that are playing great golf. And I will say it's because they have better college programs than we have -- overseas they have golf institutes and golf academies, and guys seem to be, I would say a little bit more committed; I'm not going to say with more desire, that's not the word. But they have more opportunities, and you're seeing guys that are training hard and their mental coach and their team swing coach and they have a great team around them that makes them play better at an early age.

 Q. You're able to keep your focus and keep looking forward; how hard was it when you first came here creating a lot of energy and electricity around this place?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: I've always enjoyed it. It's a special week for me. I know it can be a long week, because I have to do a little bit more. I have to do a little bit more with the fans and the media and friends and family, but it is what it is, so as long as you are mentally prepared for that, you should be fine. 

 Q. Did you get positive feedback and results from Colombia after the Nationwide Tour event? I know you were down there earlier in the week. 
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: It was awesome. Everybody I've talked to, they have had great things to say. It's what I said last week, what I've been saying this week, is it's just nice to get them down there and show them the reality of my country. It's just a great place full of great people and great things.

 Q. Did they have good crowds and good fan support?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Yeah, they had good crowds, especially on the weekend were awesome. I think the TOUR is very excited about what happened last week.
 Again, hopefully it's the first step in having more tournaments down in South America, because it's not only Colombia, but all of those countries down there that have great, great things, and if we can get the people down there, it will be awesome. 

 Q. What do you think would be the next South American country that would get a tournament? 
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: I don't know. You would think Brazil is going to be up there with having the Olympics in 2016 and Argentina has great players, and then you go to Chile -- as long as we get the sponsors -- let's put it this way. As long as we get the sponsors, the rest will be fine. They are great places.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT