WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 26, 2010
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MARK STEVENS: We'd like to welcome Camilo Villegas, who holds a share of the lead at 11-under after the second round of the Waste Management Phoenix Open. Kind of talk about your round today and your thoughts going into the weekend. 
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Yeah, I was not as sharp as yesterday, but I didn't feel like I played too bad. I made three bogeys, which kind of is not what you want, but other than that, I just kept rolling good putts, stayed really patient. The front nine wasn't as bad as 1-over, and then came back on the back nine and shot 3-under for a 2-under for the day, and it looks like I still might be in that last group, so I'm excited about tomorrow.

 Q. Could you take us through No. 18 and the events that transpired? 
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Yeah, the 18th hole, the way it was playing, I knew if I hit it very solid, I was going to carry the water. So what I did there is just aim right of the bunker and try to swing hard. If it goes left, it carries the water. Well, it did, it just got stuck in a little bush there in not the best spot. But I hit a great putt that I thought was going to break and go in the hole. But that's fine.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Yeah, it's one of those situations you can get lucky and have a clear shot or you can have somewhat of a shot like I did or you can have no shot. I'll always take having somewhat of a shot rather than no shot. 

 Q. On 17 and 18 you were doing some computations in your yardage book. Can you talk about what that is? Are you checking a distance to carry a bunker?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Yeah, I mean, we have a lot of numbers in that yardage book. That's why we have them. That's why the caddie works hard out there, and that's why we practice every day. We know how far we carry each club, and that's playing golf. You just get a number, you hit it, and it's just trying to figure out our strategy for the shot.

 Q. So on 18 you were kind of double-checking what the carry was over that bunker?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Off the tee you mean? 

 Q. Yeah. 
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: I know it's 300, I know it's 299, but there's a little altitude here, playing about 5 percent. So I was figuring it was 10 up from there. I mean, it was like 290. I was figuring it was playing like 277 to carry the water adjusted with all the factors except wind. 

 Q. Yesterday's first round you said it made lunch taste good. Will today's second round make dinner taste good?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: I'm fine. I finished with a bogey. But I just saw they moved the tee times for tomorrow; might be a little shaky weather. We'll see what happens. If it's going to be bad weather, come on, let's all get bad weather. If it's going to be somewhat, I just hope we don't get the bad end. But that's why they moved the tee times. It looks like they did the right thing, and we'll find out how bad it is tomorrow.

 Q. Did you have fun today?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Always, man. Try at least. 

 Q. How was the crowd out there, especially on 16?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: 16 was an interesting time to roll through that hole. People have been out there for a long time. They're having fun. I just try to have fun with them. That's exactly what happened. It's always nice to have a little tap-in like I did for a par and just keep going.

 Q. Do you get a sense not so much on that hole but the rest of the -- the tournament, the course, of the size of the crowd, or is it just people everywhere? There was 100,000 people today, which is enough for a football stadium obviously. I just wonder if it's any different there than a tournament where there's 20,000 people. 
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: I've said all week it's a pretty unique week in terms of the crowds and people you see out there and the way they go about the tournament and the way they cheer for golf. I mean, it's -- I have fun. It's one week a year where we get to experience this. You've got to -- there's three holes where you've got to really, really be focused because you know it's going to be loud, you know they're going to be -- you're going to get great comments, you're going to get bad comments, and it's like, okay, enjoy the great comments and block the bad ones.

 Q. How difficult is it to back up a score like a 62?
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Well, you don't see guys come up and shoot 9-under and then 8-under or 7-under the next day. It's tough to shoot 9-under in one day. To do it two days in a row, it's even harder obviously. But you just come and hit one shot at a time and see what happens. That's exactly what I did today. Am I disappointed the fact that I didn't go low-low today? No. You just want to stay in the tournament. I mean, after a great first day, you just want to keep plugging, keep staying there and give yourself a chance come Sunday afternoon. 
 MARK STEVENS: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT