WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 19, 2010
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK WILLIAMS: Thank you for joining us in the interview again at the Accenture Match Play Championship. A 3 and 2 victory over Ben Crane. Moving on to the next round with a match against Retief Goosen. Talk about the today. You started well, got a little shaky in the middle, but a great way to finish.  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: I did start good, winning a couple of holes. And then I got a little quick on my swing and made a couple of mistakes. But, you know what, it's 18 holes, you've got to keep it going, be patient. Same thing I did yesterday. And I came back strong at the end.   
 MARK WILLIAMS: When you're up early in the start of the match and then it gets down, what sort of things do you have to rely on to come through at the end? You holed a couple of good long putts on 13 or 14.  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: You do battle a little against yourself. You say, come on, go from 2-up to 1-down. But, again, I've been trying to stay in the present. I've been trying to just stay focused and then I came back. I won the 10th hole, and then from there on, I played some pretty good golf coming in. I think I birdied 11, then parred 12, birdied 13, birdied 14, and just kind of closed it down on 16.   
  
  Q. When you get to Saturday is it like getting over the hump or is it just still more work?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Depends what you think the hump is and what you can accomplish. I believe there's -- there were 64 great players on this tournament and every single one of them are trying to win a golf tournament. But you've got to realize it's match play. And you've got 18 holes, you're either going to win or you're going to lose. It can be a short week. It can be a long week. And I just keep grinding, man.   
  
  Q. I think a lot of people expected earlier today that Tiger was going to announce when he would return to the Tour. And he said he did not know when he was going to return. What does that do to the mindset of the other players, just that it's still all in limbo?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Well, I knew he wasn't going to say when he was going to come back. He's still dealing with some of his stuff and he'll do it in his own time frame.  
 We all want Tiger back. Tiger is great for the game. And we all want to continue to watch his quest to personally catch Jack and keep winning Majors. And it's fun watching the best player in the world. It's fun competing against the best player in the world.   
 I guess we all make mistakes in life, and he realized that and he'll continue to get better in every area. Personally I didn't watch or listen to what he said this morning. I was in the gym, but I believe he did the right thing. I believe he did the right thing just going out there, having some of his friends and close people and family and talking a little about how he feels. And that's fine. Again, we all want Tiger back. And to wrap up things, I hope he comes back pretty soon.   
  
  Q. To touch on that, do you feel that that affected crowds at all, the timing of his announcement or did you feel the galleries were how they were throughout the rest of the week?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Well, every time Tiger plays a tournament, there's bigger crowds, we all know that. It's plain and simple. I just tried to win my match, to be honest. I saw a couple of Colombian flags out there, which is always good. The fans are great with me. I love them. They have always been very supportive. And I just enjoy watching them have fun when I play good golf.  
  
  Q. You don't feel it overshadowed the matches at all by any means, his announcement?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: He talked at 9:00 a.m. this time. I mean, we started playing at 11:00. I'm sure a lot of people were listening to what he had to say, and they still had plenty of time to get here.   
 The crowds today were no different than yesterday. Actually I think there were more people today than yesterday.   
 MARK WILLIAMS: You've got Retief Goosen, Presidents Cup teammate, anything special you have to do in your match tomorrow with him.  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Just keep playing. Keep playing my game. Retief is a good guy. People know him as an extremely quiet individual. He was actually talking a lot this morning at breakfast. I had breakfast with him and we had a laugh there.  
 Great guy. Great player. Great record. Looking forward to teeing it up tomorrow with him.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT