WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 18, 2010
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK WILLIAMS: Thanks for joining us here in the Accenture Match Play Championship interview room. 2 and 1 victory over defending champion, Geoff Ogilvy. A good victory for you. Talk about the day and how you played.  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: It was a consistent match. I was excited to be there, but I knew I had to be very patient.   
 Geoff is a great player, obviously has a great record in this tournament. And he beat me last year. And funny enough, as players, we don't forget those things. So last night I went to bed, I said, you know what, Geoff beat me last year, I think it's my turn. But you've got to be focused. You have to hit one shot at a time and take it as it comes, and that's what I did.  
 I think at the end of the day it was two critical shots. I was patient throughout the entire match. I still missed some putts. Geoff still missed some putts. And that's the game of golf. You can get a little ahead of yourself and get a little worried or you can just take it as it comes.   
 MARK WILLIAMS: Is it strange going from one match play event last year at the Presidents Cup where you were teammates to another match play event where you're opponents?   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Yes and no. I mean we -- it was very -- it was very fun to play Presidents Cup. I mean to hang around with the guys and get to know him a little bit better, and then to compete against them in the following weeks. But I got along with everybody out here. I had breakfast with Geoff this morning, we're chatting, this and that, we're talking on the golf course, a little bit. Not as much as breakfast, obviously. But we were trying to beat each other. But it's friendly. And that's cool.   
  
  Q. Guys talk in this tournament about either playing against the opponent or playing against the course and trying to kind of strike that balance. Geoff is so tough in the match play format. Did you find yourself trying to play him more today or play the course a little bit more, did your strategy change?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: I was trying to play myself. I was trying to be patient. I've been swinging good. I've been working hard on my attitude and I stuck to that one. That's why I say I think patience at the end of the day won the match. I had a good attitude and I just got it done.  
  
  Q. When you prepare, like you did last night, you talked about thinking about playing Geoff again, do you focus on the guy you're playing or do you focus on you?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: A little bit of both. I guess you should focus on yourself and the shot. But it's easier said than done. You still know it's Geoff Ogilvy, a great player with a great record in this tournament. The guy who beat you the previous year in the third round. So all those things build up a challenge, and the challenge -- you can take it in a positive way or you can take it in a negative way. And I just decided to take it in a good way and say, you know what, it's a tough game, it's a tough opponent, and it's a tough golf course, but I can do it.   
  
  Q. Could you get a read on the crowd out there? Did it seem like there was very many people, as many as last year, anything come to mind?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: What was that?   
  
  Q. Could you get a read on the crowd?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: A read, what do you mean?   
  
  Q. Can you gauge, was it a big gallery, a small gallery, a lot of interest, no interest?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Less people than last year, probably. But we all know the answer to that one.   
  
  Q. Maybe run through a little play by play of the pivotal holes at the end, your eagle, birdie, you kind of got a little edge up on Geoff, what the clubs were and how you did that?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Let's see, all square through 9, I believe. Parred 10. Then 11 we both should have made birdies and made pars. We both missed there. Then we go to 12. We both par. 13 was critical, obviously. It's par-5, Geoff hits his second shot left. And I knew it was going to be dead. He's got no shot from there. I was in between a hybrid or a 5-iron, and I just decided to go hard for a 5-iron. It had a good bounce and it hit the pin. Ended up, I guess, two and a half feet and ended up winning the hole.   
 But again I went to the next hole and I only have a sand wedge in my hand. I thought Geoff's second shot on 14 was really, really close. So I got aggressive with it and missed the green left, and ended up giving him the hole back. But again I go to 15 and I hit a great drive. Geoff hit it right. It still wasn't a good shot. And mine was just drifting a little bit. I said bounce and catch the ridge left and it did. Two-putted, Geoff missed and I'm 1-up.   
 And then 16, he hit it inside me and I looked at my caddie and I said, you know what, let's make it first. Let's put the pressure on. And this could be a crucial putt. I got a good line, I got a good speed, and I made it. And Geoff missed and that was crucial. And then 17 it was just kind of hold on.   
  
  Q. The body English was key on the 15 -- the body English was key, getting the ball coming off the slope?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: I thought it was going to bounce right. I gave a little, ugh, come on. I thought it was a good shot, and I thought I wasn't going to be rewarded, but I did. And that was good.   
  
  Q. I'm a little intrigued by two guys getting ready to play each other and having a breakfast, was that a coincide that it happened? Did you make an effort during breakfast not to talk about the match?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Listen, there's 156 players out here every week. There's player dining. You get to see them in there, you get to see them in the truck, in the physio. And we're all trying to make a living out of the same thing. But, hey, we're trying to have fun. And if you have fun, you've got to get along with people. And that's the way it goes.   
 Geoff is a great guy. We just sat together, talk about everything. Obviously we're not talking about it, hey, we're going to play each other here, no. First tee, good luck, good luck, let's play well, and let's get it on.  
  
  Q. Did you talk about Tiger?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Who? (Laughter) You know what, there's enough talk about him. We don't need to be talking about him. Let the other people do it.   
 MARK WILLIAMS: Thanks for your time, good luck for tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT