THE BARCLAYS
August 27, 2015
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You said last week, important to get here.  Just why, if you were already set next year with your card?
CAMILO VILLEGAS: Well, you know what, it's more of an ego thing, you know.  You don't like playing bad.  You want to be in the Playoffs.  History and that 125 number has always been an important number.  It's not one you want to be lurking around, but you know what, if you are, it's nice to be on the good side of it.
Q. Comment on your day for us, if you can.
CAMILO VILLEGAS: Yeah, very good day.  Just very, very stable from an emotional point of view.  I was very relaxed.  Golf course was playing a lot softer than when I played it.
Tuesday afternoon, I played it really late afternoon, A practice round and the greens were getting firm.  Today they were a lot softer and you could get it.  Obviously around here, you have to hit it in the fairway.  The few times I hit it in the rough, I managed to save pars, except the one -- actually on No. 8, I hit it in the fairway and I made bogey.
But overall it was good.  It was a great putting day.  I'm curious to look at the stats but I feel very comfortable over the putts and I rolled some nice ones.  Good day.
Q. Is there times you get unstable?
CAMILO VILLEGAS: You know what, I think everybody out here is really good.  And we've seen it -- I've always said that -- I always say that the guys that have been out here for a long time and they have been good, when it starts going the other direction, it's 90 percent mental.
So that explains what I mean by being pretty stable out there.  I feel like I'm a good player.  I've won four times out here, and I do believe that when I'm not playing good, it's because when you're a little bit weaker on top.
And I was able to just kind of be very chill, be very mellow.  Even though I'm in a tough situation, trying to move on to next week, I didn't really approach it that way.  I approached it with kind of an I've-got-nothing-to-lose attitude.
Hopefully we can keep going the next three days like that and just be stable from an emotional point of view and just smart and play some good golf.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT