WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2009
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Explain your day in a nutshell.   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Consistent. I played pretty good. I kept the ball in play, except 18, but that was a good par to finish. Tough hole, tough pin placement.   
 We all wish we rolled one or two putts in more than we do, but I'm pleased. Guys are going low and I guess we've got to come back tomorrow and keep making birdies.   
  
  Q. On 18, third shot, you hit 60-degree wedge?   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Yeah, 58. I had a good number, and I've been practicing hard my short game this week, and it's paid off.  
  
  Q. How about everything as far as the fans?   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: It's great. I get a lot of support here, but you have to remember why you're here. You're here to play golf and it's business. You can't get too emotional out there. You have to stay in a calm balance and play in good should have.  
  
  Q. You talk about one shot at a time you need to worry about yourself and you can't control anybody else; but as far as the setting scene, would you say you have an advantage coming the weekend being in contention here in Miami?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Why?   
  
  Q. Because of the crowd, because of --  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: You've still got to hit the shots. I mean, if you hit good shots, they are going to be loud, for me or for Tiger or somebody else.   
 I enjoy the support. It motivates me to stay focused, but at the same time, you've got to give yourself a little slap in the face and remind yourself that you're there to play golf.   
  
  Q. You don't think that them rooting for you constantly may re-set your mental capacity to any point or do you feel like it would be the same thing if you were by yourself?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: I enjoy it. I enjoy the people out here and the support. It's awesome. It makes you feel like you're at home.  
 But at the end of the day it's business. You have to have your targets, commit to the shots and pull the trigger.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT