THE BARCLAYS
August 27, 2015
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You drove the ball really well, and your putting was great.  What was the best part of your game today?
CAMILO VILLEGAS: I played great.  I got in trouble a couple times and when I did, I managed to make good pars, except No. 8.  But overall, I played really good.  I kept it in play and just stayed patient and emotionally I was pretty stable.
Q. Talk about last week that got you into the Playoffs.  Is this a little momentum swing you have going here?
CAMILO VILLEGAS: Hopefully it is.  This time of year, you get a very average year, you can turn it around.  I've done it before.  Why not give it a go this year.
Q. You always play well the second half the year.  Why is it?  Why do you play better at the end of the year?
CAMILO VILLEGAS: I don't know, I guess I play better when I'm tired.  Obviously the Playoffs, like I said, so much volatility, it can turn around.  I'm excited to be here.
Obviously last week was an important week.  It hasn't been the best of years, and just to be able to sneak in here and give myself a chance, I get off to a good start, there's three more rounds to go and keep it going.
Q. Great round, six birdies and one bogey.  How do you feel about that round today?
CAMILO VILLEGAS: Very solid.  Pretty calm and relaxed out there.  The mistakes I made, I managed to get up-and-down.  Nice putting day today.  I felt very comfortable over the ball rolling the putts, and here we go, time to keep it going.
Q. A lot of guys are saying the front nine is a lot harder out here and no par 5s on the front nine but you played pretty well.  What do you like about that front side?
CAMILO VILLEGAS: Yeah, I guess the front nine could be a little tougher.  I got off to a good start.  Made a birdie on 1 and 2.  4 is a hole where if you hit it in the fairway, you can make birdie.  It's a short hole and I actually hit 3-wood and left myself further back and a perfect number and made birdie there.  And a nice putt on No. 7, I just got it going.  Yes, it's a little tougher, but at the end of the day, it's just golf.
Q. What is the key on this golf course in particular to be successful?
CAMILO VILLEGAS: You have to hit the fairways.  The rough, you can't play from the rough.  Yeah, you're going to hit it in the rough but you're going to scramble to make it.  To go low, you need to stay out of the rough.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT