BUICK INVITATIONAL
February 7, 2009
Camilo Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
 DOUG MILNE: Camilo Villegas, thanks for joining us after round three of the Buick Invitational here. Pretty long day given the weather conditions, but you're still very much right in the thick of it, right in the mix. Just a couple comments on the day, on the round, and kind of your approach as you're heading into tomorrow.   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Yeah, it was a tough day out there. Weather-wise it's a little annoying when you've got rain gear on, rain gear off, rain gear on, rain gear off, but you've got to be patient. I hit it nicely out there; unfortunately I made a couple mistakes that set me a little bit back. But it's okay, I'll come back tomorrow with a good attitude and give it my best.   
  
  Q. On 9 what kind of lie was that in the bunker and what happened with the shot?   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: I mean, it was starting to rain, a little uphill lie. I have to fly the ball all the way to the hole. If I pitch it just short, it's going to trickle back, and I only have about five yards behind the pin. I grabbed a 53-degree and then at the last minute I switched to the 58. I wanted to be a little more aggressive and make sure I got it all the way there. I just caught it a little thin and obviously not a good place to miss it.  
 Next shot was tough. I was almost just trying to throw it on the green, and it was a tough two-putt, which I did. I two-putted and I tried to forget about it, and then hit a good putt on 10 that I thought I made and then birdied 11.  
  
  Q. I wouldn't suspect these bunker shots were any different. I wonder if you could talk about 17, which was a pretty lengthy shot?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Yeah, I tried to be aggressive with that one, too. It was a little better lie, a little more flat and a little tighter. The one on 9 I still had a lot of grain from the sand and a little uphill, and you've got the rain coming. It was definitely a little easier shot on 17. It wasn't easy, but it was a nice little par there.   
  
  Q. Can you talk a little bit about, it's kind of a big change; today you were leading, now you're chasing John tomorrow. Talk about your approach tomorrow.   
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Yeah, it's golf, and golf tournaments are four days. Sometimes you're ahead and sometimes you're behind. Does it really change the way I play? Not really. There's still a lot of golf to be played. 18 holes, who knows what the weather is going to be like on a tough golf course, greens with a lot of footprints. You've just got to stay committed, hit one shot at a time, and again, give it your best.   
  
  Q. Where was the tee on 11 today? Was it still up a little bit?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: It was way back, man, 3-iron.  
  
  Q. Different from Friday?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: It was, yeah. 5-iron on Friday. The tee was up, and today I had to hit a 3.  
  
  Q. That's a big stretch, 11, 12, very difficult stretch coming off 9. Was it important to get through there?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: Yeah, it's a tough one. I did double bogey 9, which is a par-5, but it's not an easy par-5. That second shot is a tough one. That fairway is so narrow there, you miss it left you've just got to be lucky and have a good lie. Yesterday I had an awful lie and I was happy to walk out of there with par. Today I just made several mistakes on that hole that cost me a double. But then you have, like you said, 11 and 12, which are tough, and to play those two holes 1-under par, I was definitely happy about that one.  
  
  Q. I know it's only Saturday, but could that have kind of saved your tournament there, doing that in 1-under during a time when I think you were five behind?  
 CAMILO VILLEGAS: I thought I made that putt on 10, first of all, and then I go and birdie 11, par 12. Again, I was happy about that. I mean, did it save the tournament? Who knows? I mean, there's still a lot of golf to be played.   
 DOUG MILNE: Camilo, thanks for your time. Best of luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT