CAMPING WORLD MAUI INVITATIONAL
December 1, 2020
Jerod Haase
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









North Carolina - 67, Stanford - 63
THE MODERATOR:   We'll start with an opening statement from coach.
JEROD HAASE:   Statistically the game is fairly easy to unpack.  I thought we did some really nice things defensively.  Were able to create 24 turnovers and certainly proud of that statistic.  And I think defensively our guys played their hearts out.
But the reality, too, is we were playing post defense and we knew that we were giving up inside position on the boards, and the rebounding discrepancy was certainly one that was very, very impactful in the game.
On the offensive end, I think we had a plan and a good plan, but their pressure certainly got to us, probably a little bit of fatigue, and we weren't as efficient offensively.  Normally when we keep our turnovers down to 13, we're going to be pretty good, but we're usually a little more efficient shooting the basketball.
Spencer, in the two years I've coached him, he tends to make some of the shots he made today, but a lot of that I credit North Carolina with what they did as well.
Q. You mentioned that rebounding discrepancy.  Your team was out-rebounded 43-23, including 23-13 in the second half with Oscar back.  What went wrong for your guys down low and do you expect this to continue to be a weakness in the future?
JEROD HAASE:   I don't.  I think it will be an emphasis for our team.  But number one is North Carolina's probably the best offensive rebounding team in the country historically.  They always have been.  And they have so much size and physicality.
The other part is, again, the way we were playing defensively was fronting the post and putting us in a disadvantage situation.  We knew that going in, but we thought, and I think we did gain a great advantage for how we played it, but we just gave an up a few too many.  So I don't anticipate it being a year-long problem, but it certainly was tonight.
Q. How much of benefit or help in your game plan is it knowing Roy's system having been in it so long yourself?
JEROD HAASE:   I think it was, it helps knowing kind of the things they're going to try, but the reality is it doesn't matter how much I know, we're still playing against a great team, a great coach, great players, and a system that's been proven over time, so if it didn't work and if you could scout your way out of it, you would have changed it a long time ago.  And, again, it's been tried and proven for many, many years.
So it wasn't something where I didn't know what they were doing, but it doesn't mean you can stop it.  They do a great job with executing their stuff.
Q. Curious about the guys' initial reaction in terms of a game that maybe you feel like you should have won versus a game where you played a really good team close.
JEROD HAASE:   Well, I mean, their reaction is they're hurt.  I think I'll learn more about their mindset moving forward, but I do think we're a team that is very confident in our ability.  I don't think there's going to be a whole lot of games this year where we're going to go in fearful.
I think we, again, have confidence in what we have built.  I think the guys are excited about what we're doing.  I think they believe in our game plans, and I think a combination of we're playing a great team today and we may not have had our A game resulted in this, but I don't think this will shake our confidence.  I think it will maybe increase our resolve.
Q. Game comes down to the kind of the final second, you guys had some good looks, especially Spencer's, I guess, at the top for the tie.  But is there something you think the guys can take away from the end part of the game?  Like, playing this game close, what they would have had to do to finish it out and win it?
JEROD HAASE:   Yeah, certainly.  Everything looks better when the shots go in, certainly.  But we got some good looks.  I liked the plays we ran, I liked the intent to what we were doing, but we do have to make those plays as well.  So there's always learning opportunities on the offensive and defensive end and we will learn from those, so I do think we can.
Q. Wondering, what does Roy Williams mean to you and what was it like playing against him and what kind of moments did y'all share maybe after the game or before the game?
JEROD HAASE:   Yeah, no, it's hard.  He means a great deal to me.  He's somebody that without him, I wouldn't be where I am now and have the opportunities I've had in my life and there's a great deal of care and love between us.
So it is, it is hard, I think I mentioned on the call yesterday that once it's tipped up and we're playing the game, we lose ourselves in the game and we're pushing as hard as we can for our own teams.  But before and after and that kind of thing, there's a great deal of care there and he means the world to me and I can't thank him enough for everything he's ever done for me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT