WALKER CUP MATCH
August 11, 2001
Luke Donald
Marc Warren
Peter McEvoy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  P>
CRAIG SMITH:  Assess your day just a little bit for us. 

PETER MCEVOY:   Overall, I'm disappointed.  I'm disappointed to be losing.  I certainly didn't want us to be losing, albeit by such a small margin.  Just got all the scoring and get a feel for how we played, and I do feel that we played less well than we are able to.  I really made the point to the team that, you know, if they can play their best golf, they have a serious chance of winning this match and retaining the Cup and I think we fell short of playing our best golf today.  So in that sense, I feel a little disappointed.  On the other hand, we managed to get ourselves in a very poor position midway through the singles and we have recovered to an extent from there and certainly got ourselves absolutely back in the match but we need to start firing on all cylinders tomorrow if we are going to hang onto trophy.

Q.  I understand you are disappointed, but is there any sense of relief that it had not been worse if Luke and Nick had not turned it around? 

PETER MCEVOY:   It could have been worse, you are quite right.  As a consequence, if you looked at a graph of the days play, we are back on the ascendancy margin, we just started from a lower base than I liked. 

Q.  Assess your play this morning.  Obviously, you came out with the lead after the morning matches.  I would assume that you would try to stick with those same players tomorrow morning's matches since they give you the lead going into this afternoon? 

PETER MCEVOY:   Well, yes, the trouble is, I haven't even told the players that are not playing yet, so I just feel it is not right.  I'm uncomfortable with it, I'm sorry.  I don't want them to hear the first time here. 

Q.  Could you assess what you felt this morning?

PETER MCEVOY:   I felt our foursomes play was pretty good.  It was certainly better than our singles play.  It was quite spirited, and particularly pleased with McEvoy and Elson coming back and, you know, snatching the half point at the end.  So at lunchtime, I was, you know, reasonably comfortable, but it was the beginning of the singles or the mid part of the singles that was very poor, I thought.  That was where we let ourselves down, and then bounced back a bit towards the end.

MARC WARREN:  I didn't know until last night that he was 6-0, and it was actually my dad that told me last night.  It wasn't any more pressure on me, but just I felt like I wanted it more , if it's possible.  Playing for your country, you are also trying 110%, but that got me a lot more up for it, if that's possible.  I was proud to beat him; he's such a nice guy and a great player.

Q.  Did you actually want to know he was 6-0? 

MARC WARREN:  Yeah, I think the more pressure that's on me, I play better.  So it's good to know that I can put some more pain on someone. 

Q.  And Luke, did you say anything to yourself, or was anything said by Peter's arrival when you were 3-down to spark you into better action? 

LUKE DONALD:   Peter doesn't really have to say so much.  He expects a lot out of me and I expect a lot out of myself.  I got off to a very poor start through the first five holes but after that I felt I was very much in control of my game and played very good after that and Jeff didn't have such a good day and hit it in quite a few hazards, two or three hazards and gave me a couple of holes, but I did play well, on the other hand. 

LUKE DONALD:  I think we'll be very optimistic.  We are only one point behind.  I think two years ago, we were 7-5 down and we won 15-9, so I think we have every chance to win tomorrow. 

Q.  Peter, how would you characterize your team meeting after the singles, or at least this afternoon, I'm not going to say that you would do a tongue lashing, but were you spirited in what you were telling your players? 

PETER MCEVOY:   The singles, we haven't had it yet.  But it will be.  (Laughter.)

Q.  How much will you bring that up, what happened the last go-around, winning 10 out of the 12 matches on Sunday? 

PETER MCEVOY:   I think they all know that.  That's really not relevant, no.  I mean, that's history.  This is a new match, a different match.  My concern is that they play their  -- and I'm not talking about, you know, exceptional golf; that they have to play outside of their own ability.  My concern is that they play their best.  I think if they play their best, you know, we have a really strong chance.  That's all I'm asking them.  I just want them to play their games, really. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT