THE SOLHEIM CUP
August 21, 2009
Alison Nicholas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   BETHAN CUTLER: We'd like to welcome Alison Nicholas, the 2009 European Solheim Cup captain. Alison, day one and you're just one point behind. How do you feel now about the position that you're in? 
 ALISON NICHOLAS: Pretty good, because after this morning, Alfie managed to grab a victory, which was a great putt on that last, and then the last match managed to get a half. 
 It was looking good early on. We were 3 ahead. After three matches we were three ahead early on, and then suddenly it just swung around. So I think from the morning's matches we managed to salvage some points there. So I'm pretty pleased, actually. 
 One point, you know, tough morning, but the girls hung in there and played hard and really stuck with it. I'm absolutely delighted. It's time for bed, really, isn't it? (Laughter). Oh, dear, a long day. Fantastic. 

 Q. Alison, Matthew's birdie putt at the end of the morning session, looking back, at the end of the day, how important psychologically, the difference between being down one point and two points? 
 ALISON NICHOLAS: Absolutely massive. I mean, that was just sensational. That just says everything about Catriona Matthew and what a great player she is and her mental strength, her guts and determination. 

 Q. Tell me what you think about Anna Nordqvist's W in the Solheim Cup. 
 ALISON NICHOLAS: She's awesome, isn't she? I have trouble talking to her because she's so tall (laughter). I have to stand on an ice box, one of those drink boxes, to actually get eye to eye. So that was entertainment. 
 Brilliant. She's a lovely girl, full of passion, great mental attitude, very strong. I was very impressed with her this afternoon. 

 Q. The fact that some of your bigger names like Suzann Pettersen, the team of Moodie and Matthew, Laura Davies, that they haven't fared well, is that a good or bad thing?
 ALISON NICHOLAS: It just happens, doesn't it, sometimes? People are struggling a little bit with their games. But I think Suzann and Sophie actually played okay, it's just that the Americans have outplayed them a little bit and they've holed a few more putts. 
 You know, certainly from the stats, because I've got my helpers who do stats on their matches, and they both played okay. 
 We've been shaving the hole a little bit too much, not finding the middle of the cup. But that may change tomorrow hopefully. 

 Q. Looking at your lineup, you do not have Laura in tomorrow morning. Can you talk about that? 
 ALISON NICHOLAS: Sorry? 

 Q. Laura is not playing tomorrow morning. Can you talk about that? 
 ALISON NICHOLAS: Okay, yeah, yeah. She said she was struggling a little bit with her game, so you know, decided to sit her out because some of the other players are playing okay. 
 She's been absolutely brilliant. She says anything I can do for the team, I will. She was out there supporting this afternoon, and I can only give her all the credit that she deserves, because she's just still very passionate about this team. She's a good mate, and we've talked about it, and everything is fine. 

 Q. Can you talk a little bit about Helen, your former captain, her performance this morning, and the fact that she sat out this afternoon? Is she going to be -- is she anxious to play tomorrow? 
 ALISON NICHOLAS: She will do anything for the team, Alfie. She's got to go and do 16 cartwheels down the first fairway, she will, because she's so passionate and she's just a great individual, and she's there for the team. 
 Being a captain, she understands that very much so. She says, "anything you say, Al," so tremendous performance this morning, and I'm sure she'll have had a nice little rest this afternoon so she can go out all guns blazing tomorrow morning. 

 Q. Are there certain players that you have in mind that will play all five matches, and if so, are you worried about fatigue at all on this demanding golf course? 
 ALISON NICHOLAS: Yeah, and that's why I've mixed it up a little bit, because I know in the past certainly we've had to rely on certain players playing five matches, and it's been very tricky then to carry that good performance through the singles. 
 I'm very aware that that's something that I've decided as a captain to do. There may be one or two, but on the whole, I need players to rest so that they can be ready to play in the singles. 

 Q. How pleased have you been with your rookies? 
 ALISON NICHOLAS: Well, Anna Nordqvist is very, very good, yeah. Who else have we got? Yeah, Tania, she was great. She loves playing with Alfie, they can speak Spanish together. I don't understand a word either of them say, so that's fantastic. Basically they get on really well, and she performed very well this morning. Absolutely delighted, and I'm hoping that Diana Luna will do the same tomorrow. 
 BETHAN CUTLER: Okay, that wraps it up. Thanks for joining us, Alison. Good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT