U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 1997
Alison Nicholas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  It is.  It's lovely, isn't it?  It's bigger than me, I think. 
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  Well, I mean obviously I was a bit nervous today.  It was a big day.  And obviously playing with Nancy was going to be a good day.  But obviously I knew the crowds were going to be behind her.  And I think a lot of people prayed for me today.  So I just tried to be calm and to play my game, and see what happened at the end of the day. 
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  She said you played well today, Ally, and well done.  And I can't really remember, actually. It's all a bit of a blur.  But she was very nice and gracious, too.  She just congratulated me and wished me the best. 
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  I find it understandable.  Of course that's going to happen, and that's fine.  I expected that to happen and I tried to enjoy it, really, to think that they were applauding me a little bit, too.  She's a great champion and she deserves that applause.  I just had to play my golf and concentrate on that. 
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  They were great.  The crowds were terrific.  It was just a wonderful day.  And playing with Nancy was a privilege.  I shall just remember this forever, really. I shall enjoy telling my niece and nephew, if I don't have any children, that is, about the day, and playing with Nancy Lopez and winning the U.S. Open. 
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  Yeah, it's tremendous, it's a dream  come true.  When you're up there in contention you always want to finish the job off.  And I was pleased to be able to do that today.  I had to fight, though, at the end, because a few things went wrong and she put a little pressure on me.  But I came through in the end.  I want to thank my family and friends and all the people who have prayed for me and supported me.  I can thank Him upstairs for being with me, too, and for what He means to me. 
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  No.  I was just really nervous.  I just tried to -- I knew all I wanted to do was get the ball over the creek or whatever it was, the wetlands there and have a shot into the green.  I knew there was a possibility that Nancy could birdie the hole.  But I played my third shot on to the green and then the pressure was on her.  And then obviously she had a tough putt because it was a downhiller.  And all I needed was a 2-putt for the win.  It happened. 
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  Well, I mean obviously on 14, I only had about 105 yards over the water to the pin there and I've got a wedge that I usually hit about that distance.  Obviously when that went over the green I can only think it was adrenaline.  Because normally I can't hit a wedge that far.  Obviously I was a bit concerned then, but I knew it's not over until the 18th.  So I have to really fight and gather my thoughts and not think about -- think about the present, not the past, because there's nothing I can do after I finish the 14th.  I just have to go forward.  I think that was enormous. My caddy said, "Al, you've got to think forward, now.  Think of the present."  Forget what's happened, let's just play.  We've got four holes to play, let's do it.  And so I concentrated on those thoughts. 
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  Mark Fulcher. 
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  I hit half an 8-iron into the green and the putt was about, probably about 14 feet. 
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  Well, that was unbelievable.  Nancy had obviously hit it in very close there.  And she was throwing everything at the pin and really putting the pressure on.  I  thought, well, I've got to knock this close.  And I obviously went straight for the pin.  A few people went up at the back, I wasn't absolutely certain it had gone in.  My reaction wasn't sort of as it should have been, perhaps. 
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  About 56 yards. 
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  Yeah, because the crowd went wild after she hit the shot so I presumed it was pretty close. 
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  That was terrific.  But there's a long way to go.  Again, I had to go on to the next hole and concentrate on the next shot. 
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  Yeah.  I mean No. 6 was another tough pin.  I wasn't supposed to be going as right as that did.  But I tried to play a little conservative, because I felt -- after the eagle I was four shots in the clear.  I tried to just play for the middle of the greens and see what happened, really. 
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  Yeah.  That was as tough as they get, I think.  I got the speed exactly right and obviously had a great 2-putt. 
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  Obviously at No. 9 I got up-and-down for a par. 
 

Q. How did you do that?
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  I was in the semi rough on the right and had an 8-iron and it was sort of lying down a little bit and I thought it would release or pop out quite easily.  And in fact it didn't, really.  So it went a little bit left.  I had a chip from just off the green, which wasn't very far away.  It was only about 30 feet.  And knocked it to about two feet.  On 17, I mean obviously I hit it left from my second shot, a 6-iron, and obviously left the chip short which perhaps was a mistake.  I was probably trying to get it too close, instead of just get it on the green.  But the putt that I had from the fringe was important; I needed to get down in two. Obviously I went down the last with a 1-shot lead. 
 

Q. How long was a second putt on 17? 
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  About three or four feet, probably. 
 

Q. Did the grandstands impair your swing at all on the chip?
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  No.  But it was very close. 
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  Yes.  Because the ball was lying against the grandstands, so I got a free drop.  But there were a lot of people in that corner and also the railings from the grand stand, from the steps, were very close.  But it didn't really impair -- I wasn't really thinking about it too much. 
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  Yes.  At the back of the green. 
 

Q. Which side of the green?
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  Behind the green. 
 

Q. To right or left of the pin?
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  A little bit right.  But not much. 
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  Yeah. 
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  It was okay, but the green is sort of like downhill -- a really delicate downhill chip.  And, of course, it went down to the front of the green.  It was a tough shot. 
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  Yeah.  But I think there was quite a bit of rough before the water, so I don't think it was in danger of going in there.  But obviously it made my fourth shot difficult, because I was against the curve of the rough.  I was thinking of perhaps using a sand wedge and blading it, but I decided to go for the putter, because it jumped up when I hit it.  It was a difficult shot. 
 

Q. Alison, obviously the ending was pretty intense, one shot the last two holes.  Do you think maybe you won the tournament on the first four holes where you made the birdie, eagle and kept pace after she made the birdies?
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  Yes.  She put me under a lot of pressure.  She went for the flag and made some great shots and made some really good putts, too.  Because we seemed to for some reason -- we were always having downhill putts, really  tricky ones.  And she made some great putts.  And I think that eagle was very significant today. 
 

Q. Who were these people that were praying for you that you keep talking about, please, Alison?
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  Well, we had fellowship earlier this week on Thursday evening and he's the chaplain for the Portland Trailblazers, I think, and he came to talk to us.  And a lot of my friends who are Christians back home and over here rang me up to morning and prayed for me before I went out today, they did, too.  They didn't pray for me to win, just to have peace. 
 

Q. What about your non-Christian friends?
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  They were rooting for me.  Laura and Trish are delightful, and Lisa.  I mean it was great to have them in the crowd.  They're great friends, too.  It doesn't mean that they're not, just because they're not Christians. 
 

Q. Alison, we've been waiting for you to jump up and down and really go crazy here.  Is there going to be a time when you're not around us that we're going to see the emotion?
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  It hasn't sunk in yet.  I'll probably start dancing somewhere some time, but I can't tell you when at this stage.  I've been busy ever since I finished, so I haven't had time to reflect.  It's just something that I've dreamed about and it's just terrific to be the U.S. Women's Open Champion.  I should scream and shout somewhere. 
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  I did.  There was a lot of pent up emotion.  I think my caddy lifted me up, I can't remember, about six feet in the air.  I'm excited, but it hasn't really sunk in just yet. 
 

Q. In review of the golf course, which was the most difficult hole?
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  Probably the 6th. 
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  Yesterday it was playing as a par-5, because it was into the wind.  I didn't really count that as a par-4.  And the pin was in an extraordinarily difficult position.  And all of us were hitting long irons or woods into the green.  We played it to the right and hoped we could get up-and-down. 
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  Yeah.  I was really pleased with the way I was striking the ball.  I was hitting it longer and longer.  But it becomes -- my caddy was getting a bit worried. When you choose a club and you're hitting it longer and longer,  it's like, "What are we going to take this time?"  That's what happened on 14, basically.  There's no way, I normally hit -- it was only a three quarter wedge, supposedly.  And it flew forever. 
 

Q. Alison, you've won a lot of in Europe.  You've also won twice on the LPGA.  Did those two LPGA wins help you today?
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  Yeah.  Of course they did.  I think it would have been much more difficult if I'd never played on the LPGA before, to come into this championship.  That emphasizes Laura's victory when she won in '87.  It was just tremendous.  I think the actual experience and knowing that you have won in America helped me enormously. 
 

Q. It may be difficult now, but can you go back to Friday morning?  You caught fire Friday morning, it seemed, on that front 9, on your second round, and you kept it going from there on out.  What happened?  What kind of turned your whole game around on Friday?
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  I just got into a rhythm.  And I could feel -- I felt strong, my swing was smooth and I just felt really good and confident and I was firing it to the pins.  I was putting really well.  I putted well for a number of weeks now.  I just felt confident.  I decided to go for it and enjoy the whole championship and enjoy playing this golf course.  I just went from there.  I tried to get as many birdies as possible.  
 

Q. Is Nancy Lopez a person that you admired when you were a younger golfer and is it strange for you to be in this position now?
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  Yeah.  All those years ago.  I remember when I first took up the game and I was given a book, I think it was the first book that she did or that came out about Nancy.  And the lady captain gave it to me at the club. She said read this, this might help.  She was encouraging me to play.  My handicap was probably about 20 then.  And she was someone I always looked up to.  It's amazing now that I've played with her today.  It's just a sheer privilege.  It's just exciting and fun, and I'll remember it for the rest of my life. 
 

Q. Two questions.  The players when you were growing up, the players that you looked up to and emulated, professionals, were they more on this side than over in Europe?  What were the circumstances of your first trip to the states?
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  Obviously, the players I looked up to, yeah, because the European Tour didn't start until 1979, I don't think.  Obviously it got better and better since then. But there wasn't an enormous amount of publicity.  And I think Nancy Lopez has just been -- had a lot of publicity and done so well.  She's a legend in the game.  She came to the UK and played in -- what were they called -- the Colgate tournaments. And obviously seeing her play there.  
 

Q. Did you see her play there?
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  I didn't see her play there, but I heard about it.  And obviously I think there might have been some TV coverage.  And just Nancy Lopez was the star and has been for a long, long time in ladies golf when I first took up the game.  What was your other question? 
 

Q. The first trip to the states?
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  My first trip to the states.  Wow, that was back in the winter of 1983, 1984.  I came to practice and play and stayed with one of the John Palmer, who used to be the commissioner on the LPGA he was married to Mary Everard, I came out to the states the first time then to play and practice.  And of course, him being commissioner on the LPGA, I went to watch a couple of tournaments in the beginning, in the January of '84, and obviously knew a lot about the players and the Tour.  And that was my first occasion in the states.  I played the Orange Blossom Tour, actually, as well at that time.  In Florida. 
 

Q. Alison, help explain to us how far you've come along with your game, can you compare how you felt going against Nancy in 1990 in Lake Nona with maybe the calmness you felt stepping out there today.  Were you intimidated the first time you played her?
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  Definitely.  I lost to the European team.  Obviously it was the first Solheim Cup and we were very  nervous and we probably felt a little bit intimidated. Definitely I was.  I think my game and my confidence has come along with tremendous strides over the years, from playing in Europe and playing over here and from playing in the Solheim Cup. 
 

Q. Alison, I understand you started playing golf at 17. I've got three questions:  What got you into golf?  Do you wish you'd started earlier?  And how do you explain your success in Portland?
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  I started at 17.  That was really through my parents.  I started the game.  My mom and dad played.  I played a lot of tennis, really team sports, and and was more interested in team sports.  But I -- I was good at tennis, but I didn't feel I could actually make it in the professional game.  So I decided to have a go at golf because I loved and enjoyed playing in tournaments under that kind of pressure.  I thrived on it.  So we decided to have a go at golf and gave me three years to see if I could do anything.  I used to work in the winter, doing all sorts of lovely jobs. 
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  Well, I was a cleaner for a while. I looked after children and older people, as well.  I cleaned peoples' houses.  I worked in a hospital in the sterilizing department.  And then I went and played the amateur circuit in the summers.  We took a huge risk, because I haven't really got  any academic qualifications.  But my dad knew, he had a feeling I could make it in the game.  What was the other question? 
 

Q. Do you wish you'd started earlier?
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  No.  I've got no regrets at all. Because I enjoyed my team sports and enjoyed playing them at school, so it was never a problem for me. 
 

Q. Your success in Oregon?
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  I don't know.  I won my second LPGA tournament in Columbia, Edgewater, and here we are on the U.S. Open champion.  I think I probably ought to play a bit more in Portland (laughter) and I might move here, you never know. 
 

Q. Are we going to see you in September?
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  I don't know.  I haven't made a decision about that.  I'll see how things go when I get back home and see if I can fit it in my schedule.  I'll try hard to, but there may be a possibility I might not be able to make it. 
 

Q. This may be somewhat frivilous, but there's always talk about short people competing in golf and other sports. How far do you hit a 5-iron, for instance?
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  About 165, 160 to 165.  But it was going further this week, for some reason.  I was hitting a 6-iron about 160 this week. 
 

Q. What holes were those? 
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  Battleship they call me at home. 
 

Q. Alison, given your size and your ability to hit the ball a long way, in your country are there comparisons made between you and Ian Woosnam ever?
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  Yes.  With a lot of fans.  They say you're just like Ian Woosnam.  I have been compared to him on occasions. 
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  I do know Woosie, yes.  Not very, very well.  But whenever I've watched him in a tournament he's always come and said hello.  I've spoken to him on a few occasions.  I enjoy watching him play.  He's probably one of my idols, as well.  I've followed his career, and especially I got a lot of inspiration from him when he won The Masters. 
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  He might do that. 
 

Q. Alison, Nancy made some calls before she came in here.  Have you had a chance to call anybody in the world and if not, who do you plan to call first?
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  I haven't called anyone yet.  I would like to call my mom -- I can't call my mom, because she's in a yacht in the Mediterranean.  I don't think I'll be able to get a hold of her.  But my sisters and my dad, I'd like to call them.  I don't know what time it is in England right now.  I  don't think I'll worry about it too much. 
 

Q. When you came over and played the LPGA Tour and then you went back to Europe, why did you go back, Alison, what was the turnoff here?
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  Well, I was just struggling out here, and I was homesick.  My whole mindset wasn't quite right.  And I needed to go back and gather myself together and get a bit of confidence back before I came back out here again. 
 

Q. When was that?
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  That was '90, it was. 
 

Q. Was it because the game was bad or --
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  No, I was struggling mentally, I think. 
 

Q. How is it different now, other than this?
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  I realized that the thing is when you come over from Europe, obviously the strength and depth of the competition is greater over here than it is there.  I didn't adjust very well to that, because I was used to being in the top five every week in Europe, and it wasn't happening, I was missing cuts.  I just got a little bit down on myself and I realized that that was going to happen on the LPGA.  And I had to go back and get my confidence back in Europe and come back and realize that, okay, you can play well and miss the cut sometimes.  I had to realize that and not get down on myself and just play each week and be more patient with myself.  
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  Thank you very much indeed. 
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  I hope I'm still alive. 
 
ALISON NICHOLAS:  Yes, it's terrific.  What a great job everyone has done this week.  It's been superb. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT