U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 1997
Alison Nicholas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ALISON NICHOLAS:  Obviously after having a good round yesterday, I was excited, a bit early, the tee time.  I'm not good in the mornings, so I had to really shake myself.  But I was ready to play and hit it well on the range.  And I hit as many greens as possible.

ALISON NICHOLAS:  Yeah, I hit a 5-iron to about 8 feet.

ALISON NICHOLAS:  On No. 3, I drove it into the right-hand trap off the tee, decided to play short of the water, the creek running across there, and hit a wedge to about 8 feet and holed that to save par.


Q.  What did you lay up with?

ALISON NICHOLAS:  Just a wedge out of the bunker.  Then on No. 4, I hit half a sand wedge to about two feet.  On No. 5, I hit a 6-iron to about 12 feet.  Then No. 8, I hit it in the fairway bunker and then into the green-side bunker with a 7-iron and nearly holed any bunker shot.  So I knocked it to about six inches.  It ran over the hole, apparently.


Q.  Did you not drive into a bunker at 7, as well?

ALISON NICHOLAS:  I did at 7.  But I managed to get that out down the fairway in a reasonable distance, and I hit 9-wood in for my third.  And then I knocked it close on No. 9, to about 12 feet and had a chance there.  And on 10, about the same distance, I just had a few miss reads there.  And then on No. 12, I knocked it about ten feet there.  On No. 14, I hit a driver and an 8-iron to about 6 feet but misread the putt, so I was pleased with that, because that's a good hole.  And then 15, hit a 6-iron to about, probably about 14 feet.  And then 16, I hit a 7-wood to about 25 feet.  On 17, I hit a 7-iron to about 12 feet, had a chance there, but misread the putt again.  Then 18, obviously I got up-and-down from the front -- well, just short of the front edge and holed quite a long putt for par.


Q.  How long do you reckon the putt was?

ALISON NICHOLAS:  I try to drive the ball left center, and then a 4-wood over and then just -- I have half a wedge in.  But unfortunately I didn't hit a good driver, just cut it a little bit and was in the rough, so I had to lay up.  There's no point in me going for it, because I couldn't get over.  I could have got on on my third shot, but I didn't have a great lie.  But I managed to make par, anyway.


Q.  Well, you were just in front and chipped up.

ALISON NICHOLAS:  Yeah.


Q.  How close? 

ALISON NICHOLAS:  About 15 feet, maybe.


Q.  You made a 15-footer?

ALISON NICHOLAS:  Yeah.


Q.  Did you also drive into a bunker at 6?  Did you not have three drives into bunkers?

ALISON NICHOLAS:  No, I didn't, no.  It was just 7 and 8.  It felt like more.


Q.  Everybody said, "Oh, this is a long hitter's course," but I don't know if you're considered one of the longer hitters, but you're obviously in contention.

ALISON NICHOLAS:  I'm not one of the shortest one's, either.  I'm sort of average, and when I do hit one, I can hit it 250.  On 17, I hit it over 250.

ALISON NICHOLAS:  Half an 8-iron into 14.  So I think basically you've just got to keep it on the fairway and go from there.  I think straight is probably more appropriate.


Q.  How do you rate the round?  As a clear round?

ALISON NICHOLAS:  Definitely, without any bogeys, that's probably one of my best rounds.


Q.  Those chances you had, can you imagine what  this might have been today?

ALISON NICHOLAS:  But you can't -- don't make everything, that's just golf, and try my best is all I can do.  And I came in with a 66.

ALISON NICHOLAS:  A little bit.  Probably a more difficult golf course this week.  I've been playing well in Europe.  I was here in America last week.  I played in the Jamie Farr Kroger Classic last week, and I was in Europe for three weeks prior to that and I've been playing very well there.  I lost in the playoff to Ayako Okamoto in the Evian Masters, and I came in third in Ireland.  So I've been playing quite well, and putting quite well.  So last week I was a little bit jet lagged and I was preparing for this week.


Q.  What was the name of the event you lost in the playoff?

ALISON NICHOLAS:  The Evian Masters.


Q.  You've been playing so well in Europe, and you've had success there, how much do you even prep for this, is it just a spot in the road or did you work up  to this event?

ALISON NICHOLAS:  Obviously you're always looking to the majors to play well.  I came over last week on the Tuesday, and didn't really expect to play that well last week, because of jet lag, really.  And I already had three weeks on the road.  So I just took it easy last week.  And that was really my preparation for this week, for the time change and just to rest up.


Q.  Having already won the British, would this be as big a thrill to win this?

ALISON NICHOLAS:  It would be a bigger thrill, probably.

ALISON NICHOLAS:  Because when I won the British -- that was my first win ever, the British Open in 1987.  And it will be probably a great memory, but I think this is probably -- we've got a better field.


Q.  Could you tell us what time you got up, how you prepared to get up so early if you're not a morning person?

ALISON NICHOLAS:  I got up at 5 o'clock and drove to the course and had some breakfast here.  And just practiced as normal.  I was very quiet for about an hour after I got up, because I couldn't cope with  talking to anyone, particularly.  But I'm not that good at getting up in the mornings.  But I was okay.  I went to bed early last night.  I just did as normal, really, but it took me a bit longer to wake up.

ALISON NICHOLAS:  I won't be teeing off at 7:19 tomorrow.  I can have a lie in tomorrow, I'll probably wake up at 5 o'clock, but nevertheless --


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT