THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 25, 2011
Alison Nicholas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Alison, try to sum that up for us. That was absolutely incredible to watch? 
 ALISON NICHOLAS: It was. I've been in agony all day, actually, to be fair. But I've been trying to maintain a perspective. The players have had such heart and passion and purpose. I hand it all to them. They've been unbelievable. 

 Q. Their reaction up there tells us everything we need to know, doesn't it? 
 ALISON NICHOLAS: Yeah, they were so up for it and they believed in themselves. They just fought to the end. The rookies have done fantastic. The experienced players have done really well as well. It's just been a real team effort.

 Q. Suzann Pettersen finished birdie, birdie, birdie, from 1 down, 3 to play. She's a class act, isn't she not?
 ALISON NICHOLAS: She is. She's a champion. That's what champions are made of. She's a special person. I just think she's a great player and a great person. 
 We've had our battles to try and get her to play 54 holes, but I can tell you what, she's the best.

 Q. Your policy to rest everybody this time so you were stronger in the singles has paid off. How proud are you of that decision? 
 ALISON NICHOLAS: Yeah, we decided to keep with that strategy. It was very easy to think I'm not going to do that, but I had to stick to my guns. But Annika and Jo, my vice captains, have been incredible as well. They've helped me all the way.

 Q. The work of Caroline Hedwall, that half point was absolutely crucial with 2 down and 2 to play. 
 ALISON NICHOLAS: I know. What a great rookie performance. She's a class act. She's going to be a star of the future. Watch out for her.

 Q. Where does this rank in your list of achievements? 
 ALISON NICHOLAS: The best ever.

 Q. What's in your heart right now? 
 ALISON NICHOLAS: Just the players, the players and my captain's and the LET. What they've done for me, they've come together as a group. They've got passion, they've got heart, they've got a purpose, and they've just got true grit. 
 I can thank each and every one of them. They're absolutely fantastic. I can't believe it. It's amazing.

 Q. Laura Davies today, Juli Inkster, Suzann Pettersen?
 ALISON NICHOLAS: Yeah, what great champions. I mean, amazing stuff to see them play. What tough conditions too. It was raining, it was blowing, and they just all stuck in there. And great American team too. Great performances from them. Don't forget that.

 Q. At what point did you feel like we've got this? 
 ALISON NICHOLAS: About five minutes ago (laughing).

 Q. And the shock of it. 
 ALISON NICHOLAS: Yeah, I mean, it's just wonderful. Amazing, isn't it? They just hung in there. I've got no words.

 Q. European golf stands to gain what from this? 
 ALISON NICHOLAS: Hopefully a lot. You know, the European Tour has been doing really well. Hopefully people invest in it a little bit more, and I just wish the players and everyone on my team to go forward, onwards and upwards in their golf and go and show the world what they can do.

 Q. Can you summarize women's golf today and what this competition means to it? 
 ALISON NICHOLAS: Oh, it's just incredible, absolutely incredible. I mean, for some of the golf that we saw yesterday and today, tough conditions. Yesterday was lots of birdies. Today was about par golf. But then we had great performances with Pettersen coming in with three birdies. 
 It was fantastic to watch. It can do nothing more than elevate women's golf. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT