THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 22, 2011
Rosie Jones
Alison Nicholas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: We'd like to welcome everyone to the 2011 Solheim Cup. In just a few minutes we're going to reveal the pairings for tomorrow's foursome matches tomorrow morning. We would ask that you keep these pairings under strict embargo until they are announced on Sky Sports and Golf Channel at approximately 5:45 p.m.  
No, tweeting, Facebooking, et cetera. This is done as a favor so you can get your stories started.   
So without further ado, we'd like to welcome the home captain, Ali Nicholas, and the visiting captain, Rosie Jones. Rosie, I'd like for you to start with your pairing for 7:40 tomorrow morning.  
 ROSIE JONES: Match number one, Michelle Wie and Cristie Kerr.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Ali?   
 ALISON NICHOLAS: I've got Maria Hjorth and Anna Nordqvist.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Match number two, Rosie?   
 ROSIE JONES: Paula Creamer, Brittany Lincicome.  
 ALISON NICHOLAS: Karen Stupples and Mel Reid.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Match number three, Rosie?   
 ROSIE JONES: Stacy Lewis and Angela Stanford.  
 ALISON NICHOLAS: Catriona Matthew and Azahara Munoz.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Finally, match number four?   
 ROSIE JONES: Brittany Lang, and Juli Inkster.  
 ALISON NICHOLAS: Suzann Pettersen and Sophie Gustafson.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Ali, we'll start with you. Just some thoughts on putting your pairings together this year.   
 ALISON NICHOLAS: Yeah, well, I've got some experience there and a bit of youth too. We're very happy with them. Annika and Jo were very much involved in the decisions, and we're looking forward to the start.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Rosie?   
 ROSIE JONES: Well, we had a great time putting our pairings together. We put a lot of thought, my assistant captains, into this, tweaked it around a little bit. Wanted to make sure that we took into consideration this golf course and the competition that we knew was going to be beside us.   
 Wanted to put in our strong teams right from the beginning.  
  
  Q. Alison, Catriona did well with Diana Luna last time. Is that why you maybe put her together again with a rookie because she's got something of experience that will help?   
 ALISON NICHOLAS: Yeah, I think she's a great leader, and everybody gets on with Catriona very well. She's a very steady player, and so is Azahara, and I think they make a very good pairing.  
  
  Q. Melissa Reid, Ali, is making her debut, but it doesn't feel like that, does it? Because she's been around and done so well. Can you just say what it is about her that is so exceptional and what you're expecting from her throughout this competition?   
 ALISON NICHOLAS: Well, she's a fine player. She's playing very, very well at the moment. She won last week. She's high in confidence. And Karen and her have played before in Nations Cup, so I think she's going to be a great asset to my team.   
 I think she's going to play very, very well, and a very, very good player. She's a great team member and lots of fun.  
  
  Q. Juli Inkster and Paula Creamer form a good partnership, but not playing together tomorrow. Is there a reason for that?   
 ROSIE JONES: This golf course is playing very long at the moment. We thought better to split those players at the first round, see if this golf course dries out a little bit. We're using our spreading out the talent in that respect. It's fit in really good with our plan.  
  
  Q. Is it important for both of you to have all of your players play the first day?   
 ALISON NICHOLAS: Depends really what happens in the morning (laughing). I haven't made that decision just yet.   
 ROSIE JONES: I think the matches dictate your plans. I have a master plan. I'd like to stick to that as much as possible. I plan on getting all my players out. I think that's important. But you have to wait and see how the first matches go and adjust.   
 I think part of the golf game is hit it and adjust and hit it again. So we'll see what happens in the morning.  
 ALISON NICHOLAS: Same with me. I've got a plan, but sometimes you have to watch that depending on what happens.  
  
  Q. Just wondering if there were any surprises for either of you on those pairings? Any comment, perhaps, on each other's choice?   
 ALISON NICHOLAS: Not really, no (laughing).   
 ROSIE JONES: I actually thought that you would put out Suzann Pettersen in the beginning match. You have a tendency to do that. I was kind of going on what you have done before. That didn't work out, but it's okay. You got me there. Strike one (laughing).   
 But I've got heavy hitters in every match, so I'm not really worried about it.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about your leadoff team and are you trying to make a statement, set a tone with them?   
 ROSIE JONES: My what?   
  
  Q. Your leadoff team, your first team up.   
 ROSIE JONES: Well, Michelle Wie and Cristie Kerr have played together, have had a lost success together. You know, they're a great team. They love to play together, good leaders. Want to get that point up there fast.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: All right, Captains, we'd like to thank you for coming in and best of luck tomorrow.   
 A reminder, strict embargo till 5:45. Thanks.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT