ROLAND GARROS
May 24, 2015
Oceane Dodin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  K. NARA/O. Dodin  3-6, 7-5, 6-1  An interview with:  OCEANE DODIN   THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.   Q.  (Question regarding arm band.)  OCEANE DODIN: It is not really a problem, but I had to put a bandage to support my arm.  Nothing serious.  No real problem.   Q.  How long have you been wearing it?  OCEANE DODIN: Two months.  I felt I was more comfortable.  I didn't feel any pain in my arm.   Q.  Would this problem explain your double faults?  OCEANE DODIN: No.  It's my lack of experience.  During all my tournaments and at the important time, I made lots of double faults. Now, on my serve, during this match I was lost with my serve.  I didn't know what to do with my first serve.  But things came back little by little, and now I need to prepare my season on grass.  I hope I'll make more aces than double faults.   Q.  How do you feel on clay?  OCEANE DODIN: Well, in the beginning I thought clay was not for me, but I feel better.  I still haven't won any match on clay, but I'm making progress. I'm adjusting my game.  If I had had a bit more practice, maybe for a month.  But that's the way it is.  I like grass better.   Q.  Were you impressed playing your first round here at Roland Garros?  OCEANE DODIN: Impressed?  No, not really.  Looking forward to it.  I had played the Australian Open.  It was nice playing the main draw here in Paris.  I would've loved winning.  It's never easy to lose, but it's another experience. I hope I can do better next time.   Q.  Will you get a wild card to play doubles?  OCEANE DODIN: No.  I don't like playing doubles.   Q.  We know your game, which is very fast.  Clay is slower.  Maybe it's difficult for you to adapt your game to that.  OCEANE DODIN: No.  My game is the same whatever the surface, whether on grass or on clay.  Of course the surface here is not as fast so it's not easy, but it requires more energy for each match, for the ball to have the impact I want it to have. I felt I was lacking energy at the beginning of the second set.  She started having balls that were more round, so to speak.  Congratulations to her, because she managed to change her tactics when she had to.   Q.  You were talking about the grass season.  What's your schedule?  Do you know what you're going to do between now and Wimbledon?  OCEANE DODIN: Yes.  I think I'll play the ITF and a WTA.  I'm looking forward to that, because that's my favorite surface.  I love playing on grass.  There you go. I hope I'll be playing well at Wimbledon.   Q.  In Melbourne you were in all the newspapers because of your first victory.  What came after that?  OCEANE DODIN: I've had this question for six months.  It's becoming a nightmare.  Okay, it was a great experience for me, but I have Anthony sitting at the back.  That stresses me for my answer. So Melbourne was a great experience for me.  I can't remember what your question was.   Q.  Was it hard coming back on the ITF circuit?  OCEANE DODIN: No.  My results were not as good, but I didn't play many tournaments.  I want to improve my game, practice, and I want to play a beautiful tournament in Wimbledon, because that's what I'm preparing for.   Q.  Which WTA tournament will you play?  OCEANE DODIN: S'Hertogenbosch.   Q.  You still travel by car?  OCEANE DODIN: Yes.  We don't have the dog with us, so it's still the case with my mom and my dad.  It's always practical to have a car with you.  Of course for long trips the car is not the easiest way; the plane is best. So I'll see if I drive there.  But I think we will drive there.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT