NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: DEVILS v AVALANCHE
June 2, 2001
Larry Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Anything said between the second and third period tonight?

COACH ROBINSON:  Well, I am sure there was things said.  I don't know exactly what was said, I think mostly we wanted to stick with the game plan.  I think that we had a ton of chances out there.  It was unfortunate we gave up that second goal, but that's  -- it could have been a real downer us, but we were able to get that back with our own. 


Q.  How is Jason Arnott and what did you think of the way his wingers responded?

COACH ROBINSON:  Well it happened before where Arnie was out and we end up putting Chino in there. I thought they responded really well.  As far as Arnie goes he went for precautionary X-rays that's all I know. 


Q.  Just following that up he came back and played a little bit at the end of the first period.  What happened that he then went for the X-rays, did he feel woozy or something?

COACH ROBINSON:  I don't know, I just came back in they told me that he wasn't coming back for the second period.  That's all I know. 


Q.  Could you just talk about the great of this team.  Ten minutes to go you are down and really you lost the game obviously been down 3 games to 1, they come back and tie the game then get a late goal.  How about just the greatness of this team tonight?

COACH ROBINSON:  Well, I mean, we talked about playing this kind of game that the team that we are playing against never quits they keep coming at you, and they got a lot of speed and they got great goaltending.  They have everything and basically they out played us the last game at our own game.  So we just wanted to come back in and if nothing else at least leave the building knowing that we gave everything that we had. 


Q.  Your thoughts on Gomez and Mogilny?

COACH ROBINSON:  Well, I mean, tonight they were both skating and getting involved.  I kind of look back to the Toronto series and that's the kind of series that the games that Gomez was playing where he is always around the puck, he is not  -- you know, what I call cheating on the offensive side, but he was around the puck all the time.  Alex had a couple of great chances, but more than that he was just  -- he was being involved a lot more. 


Q.  Talk about the defensive effort the team put up tonight.  I mean, there have been times when Colorado seemingly skated at will.  Tonight the shot total showed that your team is playing the defensive that everybody has come to expect?

COACH ROBINSON:  Yeah even if you look back at the last game the one that we lost it was still tied 1-1 going late into the game so it is not just a question of that we weren't playing well defensively.  I think that we weren't  -- we were giving them chances but we weren't creating anything ourselves that we were able to create a little bit more tonight.  We passed up a lot of shots, the previous night to try to make that extra play.  Tonight we were shooting the puck more and the other thing we had more guys there for rebounds and around the net. 


Q.  You did not mask your feelings after the last game.  Are you as pleased with the effort and the puck control tonight as you were displeased with the effort after Game 3?

COACH ROBINSON:  Yeah, for the most part.  I think that we played pretty well.  As long as you get the effort, I mean mistakes are I guess are part of the game, but it is effort that you want.  That's all we ask before the game was just make sure we don't get outworked.  I don't think we got outworked. 


Q.  What part do you think your penalty killing played in the victory tonight?

COACH ROBINSON:  If we don't have that we are not even in this series.  If I was to look back so far in this series and look at something that I am completely disappointed in, that is the number of stupid penalties that we keep taking. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT