NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: DEVILS v AVALANCHE
June 2, 2001
Larry Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Talk about the line adjustments you have made, Brylin with Holik and Corkum?

COACH ROBINSON:  Yeah, it is a minor adjustment.  Nemchinov has played with Gomez and Mogilny for most of the year.  Putting Brylin up there because he has played with Bobby too.  It is nothing major, nothing to read into.


Q.  What is it that you can say to the guys?  I mean, yesterday at practice Jason Arnott said basically this is it, we have to win.  The feeling is that to win three in a row against Colorado would be nearly impossible.  I wonder if you could comment on that?

COACH ROBINSON:  Well, I mean, you know a lot has been said about losing the first game back home.  But I don't think it would have been any different had we lost both games there and won our first one at home.  This game puts us right back to square one again.  But indeed you don't want to go down 3-to-1 to a great team like that.  I think everybody says, "well you came back last year against Philly," but that is last year.  This is a much different team, a much hungrier team, so we have to  -- this is a definitely a big game for us, but by all means, you know, it's not the end of the world if you lose this one too.  It still takes four and the fourth one is the hardest one to get. 


Q.  You have seen your team in this situation enough times in the Playoffs where it is coming off a loss.  Almost always it has responded.  Is there a different demeanor to the team in these situations in a morning skate before the game, something you notice a little differently about them?

COACH ROBINSON:  Well, you kind of look for down faces and everything else but everybody looks very upbeat.  I think they are looking forward to the game tonight.  It is unfortunate it's such a long day, waiting up until game time, but you know, I think we are prepared.  I don't think it's going to take meetings or anything else.  Right now it's a little bit of soul searching and guys have to, you know, look at themselves and prepare themselves to play one of their best games of their careers.  They are not going to get many opportunities like this.  We have worked hard all year to get into this position, so, better do it now.


Q.  Did you give any consideration at all to splitting up Gomez and Mogilny for tonight's game?

COACH ROBINSON:  Well, I mean, Game is 60 minutes and you can always switch your lines around.  But those two guys have played together all year and matter of fact, moving Nemchinov back in there I am going to be looking for a big game from him.  I think you are going to get an excellent game from him tonight.  They all look really focused and ready to go.


Q.  Will you be looking to make any different line matchups than you have been maybe Holik up against the second-did?

COACH ROBINSON:  It is quite possible but I won't tell you this morning any way.  I will tell you after the game.


Q.  If you were at any point to make a change on who plays Sakic would your main motivation be finding a better way to stop Sakic or trying to find a way to free up the Arnott line for a little more offense?

COACH ROBINSON:  Probably both.

Although, I think the Arnott line has done a great job against the Sakic line.  I think other than the first game he really hasn't hurt us that much.  The times that he has been getting his chances have been on the powerplay anyway, so...


Q.  Your team has just seemed very confident, very loose, especially after Game 1.  What do you attribute that to?  They don't seem like they are feeling any pressure for being in the Stanley Cup Final.

COACH ROBINSON:  Like we said many times since the start like we establish some goals at training camp.  We were very clear about our goals and we are now entering the Final chapter of our goals.  This is to attain the ultimate goal and obviously there's still lots of work to be done.  But we are following the plan to the letter.  We don't want to change anything.  I love like my players approach.  I love the way that we play.  We have so much experienced guys in the locker room, so much leadership that certainly helps in tense moments.  We learn to face adversity.  You find a lot about yourself when you face adversity and I think that we responded very well throughout the season when we had our backs to the wall.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT