NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: DEVILS v AVALANCHE
June 9, 2001
Larry Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Are there any lineup changes expected tonight on your side?
 
COACH ROBINSON: Probably there will be one at least.  O'Donnell is going to go in instead of Sutton. 
 

Q.  The Devils have shown a split personality in the Playoffs.  But can you tell eight hours before a game what Devils' team is going to show up?
 
COACH ROBINSON: You can get a pretty good idea usually in the morning skates but the way the guys act in the morning at our meetings or while they are getting dressed.  So you get a pretty good feeling for it. 
 

Q.  Who do you feel?
 
COACH ROBINSON: Pretty good.  Very good. 
 

Q.  Following up, a couple of guys this morning have said it seems like they are less anxious than they were on the morning of Game 6.  Is that the same feeling you have gotten?
 
COACH ROBINSON: As I mentioned to some of the guys I said it's great to be nervous, and the comment that was made to me said nervous, we were nervous the last game.  Got nothing to be nervous about for this one, which is a great sign.  
 

Q.  Do you coach a Game 7 or this type of game with everything on the line a little differently?  Do you make moves quicker than you would normally?
 
COACH ROBINSON: Well, yes and no.  Certainly if somebody is not playing well you can't kind of wait it out.  But at the same time you don't want to shorten your bench too early, especially in this altitude, you can burn guys out in first part of the game as well.  So I think you have to gauge it as to how the game is going, if it's a high-tempo game, then I think you need all of your personnel.  If it's a slower-paced game you can maybe double shift guys or come back every second or third shift with the same people.  I think tonight you definitely coach a little bit differently than would you in any other game. 
 

Q.  What traits of Mr.  Stevens make him a good captain?
 
COACH ROBINSON: Well, just his work ethic and his dedication.  I think you have different kinds of captains.  You have got the vocal captains, the guys  -- the rah-rah type of fellows that stand up and kind of take charge.  I think Scotty is more of a quiet leader.  He is your hardest worker in practice.  He is your hardest worker in games.  One of the most dedicated players that I have seen as far as looking after himself and making sure that he is ready for the games, both physically and mentally.  I think that's what guys look upon mostly and his uncanny way of sometimes just finding a way with a big hit or a big play to give the guys a lift. 
 

Q.  Do you find it presumptuous, the city is planning for a parade on Monday?
 
COACH ROBINSON: Sounds good to us.  I like urinating on parades. 
 

Q.  I don't think we can use that one.
 
COACH ROBINSON: That's why I said urinate and not the other one. 
 

Q.  As a coach and as a player back in your career, how different is the feeling coming into a deciding game for you personally?
 
COACH ROBINSON: Well, it's nerve-wracking as JD once said.  He said he hopes to go two or three overtimes tonight and really make it wonderful for everybody.  I told him why doesn't he just take a knife and stab me now.   (LAUGHTER) For a player, I mean, you really look forward and you love these games.  I think you do the same as a coach, but you ask anybody that has to stand and watch, watching is probably the most difficult thing that you will ever do. 
 

Q.  Do you think Arnott's comeback last game and his head condition had any distracting effect on the team watching out for him in the last game?
 
COACH ROBINSON: No, I don't think so.  But I think the Arnott that we saw the other day is not the same one that we are seeing today.  He is very focused today and I think he is a guy that looks like he is ready for a challenge. 
 

Q.  You played with Lemaire and coached under him and Scotty.  Do you draw all these guys on your coaching how you pattern yourself as a coach or is there any particular one or none at all?
 
COACH ROBINSON: No because they never said anything to me.  (Laughs). I never knew what Jacques was thinking, you know, I know he is as nervous as I get and I don't know how about Scotty.  I don't know how he has been able to coach this long.  But really I haven't really taken  -- I have taken little bits and learned through listening and watching from them.  But I don't really pattern myself through any of them.  I try to coach through my own experiences and what I have learned as a player and as an assistant and put those things out there and try to give those pieces of advice to the players. 
 

Q.  With what you have been through with your experience at the Kings and now the Devils, do you have a sort of a finite amount of time that you want to coach or is it open-ended?
 
COACH ROBINSON: For me it is always open-ended.  I did it as a player and I don't plan to change it as a coach.  I think when the if you know is gone and/or you don't feel that you are contributing the way that you can, then I think it is time to move on. 
 

Q.  Are you going to save some of these one-liners for just before the game to loosen up the mood a little bit?
 
COACH ROBINSON: (Laughs) I don't know what I am going to say yet to be honest with you.  I just try to get a feeling for how the dressing room is and then go from there. I think if they look nervous and uptight then certainly want to do something to loosen them up a little bit. 
 

Q.  What did you say to them after practice?
 
COACH ROBINSON: I just said you know it's normal to be nervous and that's when I got the comment from them, nervous, they said they were nervous in the sixth game.  I just mentioned about  the parade and didn't want to miss it if it was going to be Monday.  
 

Q.  You seem nervous.
 
COACH ROBINSON: I seem nervous?  I can't hide it.  I am trying to but I can't.  It's a big game.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT