NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: DEVILS v AVALANCHE
May 26, 2001
Larry Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Can you talk a little bit about-- there was so much talk about the lineup matchups
going into the series can you talk about their top line compared to your top line tonight?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Well, our top line had some chances early, but it was our inability to
control their top line; that was part of the difference. But most of all I think we got
out-hustled and that worked tonight. 
 
Q. Do you think after the Pittsburgh series-- I don't want to say totally surprised but
not ready for the physical game Colorado brought tonight?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: No, I think we were ready. I think we saw-- most of our guys saw the
St. Louis series and you know that was a nasty series I thought, so we were well prepared
for it and we know that especially their first guy comes he is very, very aggressive. He
finishes his checks and then if you retaliate he falls down like he has been shot out of a
cannon. So, we know all the little things that we do, but we just didn't react to it very
well. 
 
Q. Did you think your team showed lack of discipline toward the tail end of the game?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: I don't think it was a lack of discipline I think it was overall
frustration because of not playing well. 
 
Q. Have you seen since you started coaching this Devil team, have you seen them play
worse than they did tonight?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Yes. On a number of nights. But I think we can look back -- it just
looked like we didn't have our legs tonight and we were a step behind all night, whether
it was because you know, the trip here took more out of us than we like to admit or just a
lack of effort or maybe a little bit of both. 
 
Q. Can you think that they were targeting the "D," particularly Rafalski and
did they do a better job?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Very much so. I think -- I don't think that other than in the third
period I don't think Blakey or Ray or Foote got hit all night and certainly Joe never
could have wore eggs in his pants, he didn't -- never got hit as well. Our guys were
getting hit left and right. We didn't do a good job of obstructing them and holding them
up from getting in and getting on the forecheck. A lot of our big guys didn't play very
well tonight, didn't put out an effort and if your fourth line is your best line, there is
something missing. 
 
Q. Is McKay out?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Yes. 
 
Q. The powerplay seemed to really struggle for you guys. What do you think you need to
do to get it to turnaround for you?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Try to -- when you are on the powerplay the question is you have got to
work as hard as the guy -- as the four guys that are working against you. Our passes
weren't good, they were in our feet; we were always looking for the extra pass instead of
taking the shot when it was there and we just got outhustled. 
 
Q. Previously in this year Playoffs seems your players have saved their best
performances for when they felt threatened after a loss, certainly the Toronto series, the
Pittsburgh series after Game 2 maybe playing a different animal right now...
 
 COACH ROBINSON: If that's the case then we should play awfully good game next one
because we didn't play very well tonight. 
 
Q. Does your team do anything to prepare for the change in altitude in Denver?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Well that was one of the reasons why we tried to come here as late as
possible. We did it earlier in the season where we come in the day of the game, but League
rules being what they are we have to come in the day before at noon. But I think all
different sports have tried different things as far as when you come into Denver where the
so-called air is supposedly thinner. I think a lot of it is psychological to be honest
with you. It is just a question of you can't get caught out there in long shifts, and so
you have to change quicker, work harder but stay out shorter. 
 
Q. Can you talk about Randy McKay what happened on the play and what his status is for
the rest of the series and what that loss might mean for your team?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Well, it was a play right in front of our bench and the puck was coming
to Randy and he saw Ray coming across at him, tried to -- he just moved out of the way and
caught his hands on Ray and fractured his hand. 
 
Q. After a game like that, do you approach it pragmatically or emotionally, do you
reason with your players get them to play better or do you go hard after them?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Well I went a little hard at them after the second period, didn't do
much other than rile them up a little bit and they ended up at least showing a little
spark of life albeit taking maybe some foolish penalties but at least they showed a little
bit of emotion, a little bit of great and life to them. But it was a little bit, a lot
late. So we certainly have to go over the game tonight and look for ways of playing
better. 
 
Q. Sakic's second goal pretty stylish. Can you tell me what you thought of the play he
made on that?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Well, you know he was coming down flying down on Scotty, Scotty got
caught flat-footed made a nice move to free Scotty and then we didn't do a very good job
of backchecking. We had a couple of guys where-- that were within reach that could have
come back and maybe caught him but we did what we did most of the night, stood around and
watched and he made a good move and Tanguay then drove Sykora right into Marty and you
know, Joe made a great shot.  
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT