NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
June 10, 2000
Larry Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Larry, congratulations first of all.
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Thank you. 
 
Q. I saw a replay on television of your reaction. Were you ever that excited winning a
Cup as a player in Montreal?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: You are always that excited, but this one -- this one is special. No.
1, it was nice to win this one for my new grandson. But most of all, I am very, very, very
happy for our Dr. McMullen who is leaving on a high note, and very deservedly so. He is
just a great owner, and I couldn't work for a better man than Lou Lamoriello who basically
had the confidence in me that I could come here and do the job, and that says a lot for a
man of his stature who has been around as long as he has. So I am very, very happy for
him, but I am also happy for that group of guys, that I think as the Playoffs and even a
little bit before the Playoffs, even though we weren't successful and we didn't -- we
weren't really setting the world on fire those last few weeks before the Playoffs started,
I felt that we started to come together more as a group, and we started to believe more in
what we were doing on the ice. And as the Playoffs wore on, we just became a closer and
closer knit group. We strayed a little bit from it, as I am sure you guys have been trying
to tell me for through the whole Playoffs about that so-called meeting, but I think the
guys really believed in themselves, but they just, you know, sometimes you don't know what
it takes to win. And sometimes you start to doubt yourself. The easiest thing is to go
back to old habits. We kind of went back to them a little bit, but we were able to regain
ourselves. And that Philadelphia series was a huge stepping stone for us. And I think that
is why we were a little more prepared when we came against Dallas. But I mean, I take my
hat off to Dallas and the job that Hitchy did. I know how hard it is to win the Cup, and I
know how hard it is to repeat. And they have got nothing to hang their heads about. They
gave us everything and a little bit more, and we were just fortunate -- sometimes the
bounces go your way; sometimes they go the other way. But I think hockey can be really,
really proud of the last two games that were played here. The other night in Jersey and
tonight, I -- I don't think you are ever going to see two buildings that are more tense
with people sitting on the edge of their seats than those last two games. 
 
Q. A couple of times there you looked like you were talking to the forwards and saying
to them: Keep on shooting. It is going to go in. Is that indeed what you were saying?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: No, I said: "Hit the net." We were shooting, but we were
shooting wide, and the problem was when we were shooting wide, we were always shooting on
the far side, so the puck would end up ringing around the boards and going out, and we
would catch two guys in deep. But the thing -- the thing that I wanted them to do more
than anything else was to go to the net a little bit more. I tried to make mention of how
Modano scored the other night, all he was doing was cruising in in front of the net. Next
thing you know, there is the puck in front, and he tips it in. So that is all that I was
really looking for. 
 
Q. It is sort of cliche that you rally around the injured guy, win one for the Gipper.
Did you, in fact, use Sykora's injury as a bit of a rally point?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: A little bit. But I think everybody was too nervous to really worry
about anybody but themselves. I don't think I have seen our guys the last two games as
tight as they are, missing passes, and getting great chances, and not putting them in. And
I think that the thing that helped us a little bit tonight was we got a little bit tired.
We didn't have to think about being nervous. But definitely it was in everybody's minds. 
 
Q. About you put the Jersey on at the end so clearly it was --
 
 COACH ROBINSON: No, I mean, the one that had it was Patrik Elias. Him and Sykie I think
are attached at the hip. They follow each other around. They are a very close knit group.
In fact, Arnott, those whole three guys, you know, they go out together, they eat
together, and they are very tight group. I saw that Patrik had it, and I said: Here, you
already got yours. Show your name, and I will take it and put his on. That is the only
maybe dark cloud in this whole thing is not having Sykie here, but -- he is here in spirit
for sure.  
 
Q. Can you talk a little bit -- you seemed particularly excited when Scott was named
the Conn Smythe. Can you talk about his play in this series?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: What more can you say. It is not just this series. This whole Playoffs,
I mean, if -- mostly the cons submit I think goes for the Final series, but in this one
you could say he was the most valuable player -- him an Marty did a great job through the
whole series, as did a number of people. Scotty Niedermayer just played phenomenal. But
nobody is more deserving. When I took this job, there was always questions before: Oh, our
club doesn't have leadership. That was the first thing that we straightened out when I
came in was that. I said: Listen, you have got probably the greatest leader, one of the
best leaders in the League right here. Because he doesn't stand up and shout and holler
and you don't hear him talking all the time doesn't mean he isn't a great leader. Bob
Gainey was a man of very few words, but he's probably one of the best captains that I
played for. And Scotty reminded me a lot of Bob Gainey, because nobody works harder in
practice; nobody comes to play every night more than Scotty Stevens. Nobody plays with
more heart than Scotty Stevens. So I think it is truly fitting that he won, and I am very,
very happy for him and his family. 
 
Q. Goaltending matchup, you have obviously seen a lot of Playoff action. Is that one of
the best duels you have seen?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: You know what happens, I was telling everybody the other night, as soon
as you say: Well, great Playoff duel. Back in '72, '73, they had this great Playoff duel
between Tony Esposito and Kenny Dryden. Final in that one was 8 to 7. So I think this was
an unbelievable duel between these two guys, not only because of the score and because
everything went into overtime, but you are talking, probably over almost 200 shots in two
games, and these guys only let in a couple of goals. I mean, and they were great chances.
Both of them stood on their heads. 
 
Q. One year ago, if someone had told you you would have been the head coach of this
year's Stanley Cup Champions, what would you have said?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Dream on. Mostly because I didn't know if I really wanted to do it
again. I don't know if I was going to get another opportunity. Some of the best-laid plans
are never laid. So I have, first of all, Jacques (inaudible) to thank for talking me into
coming back here, and secondly, I have Lou Lamoriello to thank for having the confidence
in me to allow me to take this job. 
 
Q. Do you marvel at Scott's stamina?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: He is not a kid anymore. He still plays physically, and as much as he
does, he's still be able to maintain that level. You know why I don't marvel at him,
because he is probably the best-conditioned athlete or one of the best-conditioned
athletes on our team. And he prides himself in looking after himself and being in top
shape. And when you do, I think that -- that is a great example. And one of the other
reasons why he is a great captain is I think all the other kids see this guy working hard
and coming to play every day and comes to practice and works his tail off, I think this is
setting a great example for all these young kids that are coming in to start to play. 
 
Q. What did you feel when you saw the puck go in?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: I wish I could describe it, but it is an unbelievable feeling. I mean,
I have had these feelings as a player, and I have had them as an assistant, but what we
have gone through, since I took over has just been a fairy tale for me. I think the kids
have made great strides, and our team has made great strides to be a family. And I am
very, very proud of each and every one of them. I think I mentioned even on one of the --
I think it was ABC that, you know, through all of this, the ones that are lost in it are
Brad Bombardir and Kenny Sutton and Steve Kelly and Brule. But you look back through the
Playoffs and Kenny I think was only one that maybe didn't get a chance to get in there,
but everybody else contributed. And so when we talk about the New Jersey Devils, Stanley
Cup Champions, they have to be mentioned as well. 
 
Q. Can you compare and contrast your thoughts and emotions from when Jason got the
penalty versus getting the winning goal?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: It is called both sides of the coin. You know, I mean, it is easy for
us to say. You got to keep your calm and everything else, but this is -- I mean you can
cut the tension out there with a chain saw. It was so thick. So it wasn't a good penalty,
but I think he made up for it. 
 
Q. At any time did you talk to your team specifically about what had gone wrong in the
Playoffs the last couple of years, and did you talk to Marty about what had maybe gone
wrong with him in the Playoffs?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: No, I think in cases like that you are better off not reminding him of
the past. I think you can learn lessons from the past, but if you start dwelling on what
happened, then you are not -- I don't think you are focusing on what you have to do. And
all we have -- we had to do here was just focus on the -- first of all, in the Florida
series we just had to focus on getting through that series. Everybody was telling -- well,
remember last year -- we didn't we said forget last year. This year we got a new group,
new bunch of guys that come in. Vlady Malakhov, who they tried to run out of Montreal
because they said he wasn't any good, and I think performed unbelievably in here. Mogilny
came over. They said he couldn't check, but he played great two-way hockey for us. So we
had a lot of great people and different people that came in here. Just said: Forget about
that. Let's just start a new page. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT