NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
June 10, 2000
Larry Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. I was just asking some of your guys about this as well. The aspect of playing a
little tight tonight, because to state the obvious, of course if they win, it is a Game 7,
and a Game 7 traditionally, all bets are off. Will there be some tightness?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Oh, I am sure there will be. I think there is tightness on both parts.
I think if -- maybe "tight" is not, a little tentative. Obviously, everybody
knows what is at stake. I mean, it is no secret that -- these are all huge games. If you
are not a little bit nervous, you are not a little bit uptight, then you don't care. These
are important games, and mistakes are usually costly, unless you have got goaltending like
we had the other night, and then they can cover up for a lot of mistakes. But they are
human. So I am sure there is a little tightness there. 
 
Q. At the same time, there was a lot of hype and expectation before the last game,
especially with the two days leading up, that is no longer there after the last game. Do
you think that helps in calming the guys down as well?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: No, I don't think so. I think there is still a lot of importance
involved. I think there was a lot of distractions for us going home, having a lot of
family, and the possibility of winning it on home ice, everything else. I think it got to
our guys a little bit. But the bottom line is you have still got to go out and play. We
have got to get rid of all of our distractions and all of our thoughts about the end
result, and just play the game. 
 
Q. Could you talk a little bit about the aspect of, I am sure, having been in this
situation as a player, you want something so badly you are concentrating on it so much,
that maybe you try to do too much, and that can cost you?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Sometimes your greatest asset can be your biggest downfall too. If you
are a goal scorer, you know, you put so much pressure on yourself to score the goals that
you don't normally do the things that you do in regular time. You put so much pressure on
yourself, you become almost brain dead, and I think a lot of that happened in the
overtime. I think guys just got so uptight and so focused and so nervous about making a
mistake that we made mistakes, and you can't make mistakes in overtime like that. I think
we had great opportunities to score, and guys just tightened up a little bit. 
 
Q. On that subject, did you speak to Bobby at all afterwards? Did you feel you needed
to kind of get him calmed down? Did you talk to Randy at all about not playing in the
overtime?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Not like one-on-one where I said to Randy the reason that you didn't
play and so on so forth. I think in Randy's case it wasn't so much what he did. He had a
really good -- he came out and had a really good first shift. Then they didn't get on the
ice because of matchups, and whatever, for a while, and then he just didn't really get
into the flow of the game. Then, once we got into overtime and everything, he had been
sitting so long. I didn't think it was fair to him at that point to put him out there
being cold and stiff and everything else. That is the reason why he didn't really get out
there. But speaking to Bobby, no reason to. He played a great game. He did all the things
that he was supposed to do, except I think the only thing that concerned all of our
centermen is that our faceoffs were not up to par. Any time you are 32% in a game, that
means the other team had the puck probably 3/4 of the time. You don't win a lot of games
doing that. 
 
Q. How much will fatigue actually play factor tonight?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Well, I think emotions probably will overplay the fatigue factor. We
were able to get a good rest. I am sure they did the same thing. As long as you get the
fluids in you and you get your sleep when you can, then I think emotions and the energy
that is created by the importance of the game tonight will not really be a factor as far
as fatigue is concerned. 
 
Q. How do you address the faceoffs? Matchup technique? What did you discuss or.....
 
 COACH ROBINSON: A lot of the times faceoffs are more mental than technique or anything
else. I think if you go in there, and if you are positive about what you are doing, you
have a better chance than if you are just going in with a negative thought. I think we
just go in more as -- with the thought that this is just another routine thing and we
don't bear down. We don't concentrate on it. That is something that we have got to do a
better job of doing. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT