NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
June 9, 2000
Larry Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What has it been like? Did the Stars get some momentum with that win, and how hard
was it for you guys to put that in your rearview mirror and look ahead to Game 6?

COACH ROBINSON: It was a huge loss for us at home. I think everybody wanted to win it
and get it over with. It has been dragging on long enough, but hey, that is part of it.
They are a very veteran club that has been there before. They have got nothing to lose. I
thought we played a little tentative, a little nervous, and then once you get into
overtime, anything can happen.

Q. Nieuwendyk said this afternoon he thinks because of what was at stake, you guys
being one shot away from dancing around the puck and they took that away, he says they
have a mental edge ....

COACH ROBINSON: I am glad they are feeling that. This game is not all mental though.
Still got to win it on the ice.

Q. Long flight, rain delay getting down here?

COACH ROBINSON: Wasn't bad though.

Q. What did the guys talk about? Was it a quiet flight?

COACH ROBINSON: Watched a couple of movies and --

Q. What did you guys watch?

COACH ROBINSON: I don't know. We didn't get to watch it. We were up in the front so the
monitors didn't work.

Q. Have you noticed an attitude or mood about the guys today?

COACH ROBINSON: No, it is pretty laid back, actually. I think everybody is still
suffering the effects of the disappointment the other night, but we have got tonight. I
think the most important thing for us right now is to get fluids in our body and get a
good rest. That is a long game. And we will see come tomorrow who it affects more.

Q. For the most part with the exception of the score, were you happy with what you saw
out there?

COACH ROBINSON: Yeah, I thought as the game wore on, I thought that they started to get
more of the momentum, but they were strictly going -- I think Modano was out there
probably almost every second shift, and he was flying all over the ice. But we had some
chances. I think Bobby alone could have probably had a hat trick, and then Marty made some
unbelievable stops. So what it came down to was two goaltenders that were almost
unstoppable. I kind of figured that the winning goal would be some kind of a fluky thing,
somebody knocking it in the air or somebody going to the net and having it hit them; and
sure enough, that is how it ended.

Q. When you suggested that you might be fresher coming out of the game last night,
Hitch said you ought to mind your own business. I know my players; he knows his. Any
reaction to that?

COACH ROBINSON: Well, since when did he ever worry about my business? That is my eye,
that is on my own thoughts. And if he doesn't like the way I think, then he shouldn't
listen to what I am talking about.

Q. After five games, these teams working up a little bit of hate for each other?

COACH ROBINSON: Well, not hate - hate is a very --

Q. Animosity?

COACH ROBINSON: Well, I mean, you are banging heads with each other for six, seven days
in a row, and you see each other every day. So certainly, yes, you do -- you do feel
animosity sometimes towards the other guys. Especially when you have Hatch going on down
there chopping the way he does, and probably some of our guys doing the same on theirs. I
mean, that is -- unless you are a masochist, you are going to have some ill feelings.

Q. Did you say anything to Arnott? He said right after the game he saw the hit and
nothing was going to happen.

COACH ROBINSON: To Arnott?

Q. Yeah.

COACH ROBINSON: Seems like everybody in the building thought it should have been a
penalty except the two guys that were on the ice. There is nothing you can do. It is over
with.

Q. What can you pass on to the players after losing?

COACH ROBINSON: You can't dwell on the past. That is the way games go. And especially
when they go that long and you get into the overtimes, those kind of things are going to
happen.

Q. Anything to change in Game 6?

COACH ROBINSON: Yeah, we -- that was probably our worst game as far as forechecking
goes. We just -- we almost gave them the first half of the ice. We can't be doing that. We
have got to do a much better job of forechecking. I thought we were very guilty of staying
out there, long shifts. There is one thing that Dallas does, and they do it very, very
well, and a lot of it is you know, Hitch's philosophy in discipline, you know, keeping the
shifts short. And we were very guilty of long shifts. And that may not wear on you early
on, but after -- as the game goes on, that is a cardinal sin. I think that it is a natural
feeling when you are that close and you are only, you know, a bounce or one shot away and
we had that breakaway in the overtime and you can always, you know, think back on all the
things that could have, would have, and should have happened, so you are bound to be very
disappointed.

Q. I know every game is different and every circumstance is different, but if you look
back in these Playoffs and Pittsburgh losing the game that it did, they didn't recover
from that. I don't know if that --

COACH ROBINSON: That long overtime you are talking about?

Q. Yeah, I don't know even if that is --

COACH ROBINSON: Sports is a big mind game sometimes. As long as you don't let your mind
get the best of you then you will be fine. That is our job.

Q. Did you get any read on the team today?

COACH ROBINSON: No, not really. We are the same team that came down here the last time.
I think probably a little more disappointed, but I don't want our guys hanging their head.
It is not the time to hang your head.

Q. You mentioned yesterday how many minutes Mike Modano played and he is not all that
young anymore. You have got some guys that are a little older. Are you comfortable and
confident with their ability?

COACH ROBINSON: I hope so. Modano, he is a little older, but he is also probably one of
the better skaters in the League, but I am just saying that when you play that much it is
going to take some of its toll, same as it will on our guys, I am sure. But I think we use
more -- other than last night most of the time we used more players. It is not too often
that we have anybody over as 17 or 18 minutes up front.

Q. Scott Stevens, he has only taken like six penalty minutes the whole Playoffs. What
does that mean to the team to -- he's got a short fuse too?

COACH ROBINSON: I think he has curtailed that quite a bit. I think that is one of the
reasons why he is playing so much better now. He is able to not let that distract him from
his game. He knows what he has to do and he does it well. But I mean, those are
circumstances where I mean, he is a physical player and usually physical players are bound
to get a few penalties here and there, but he knows he is an important part of our team
and he stayed out of the box.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT