NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
June 8, 2000
Larry Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. I wanted to ask for your comments on Malakhov, and it just seems like he has been
making a lot of turnovers recently and things like that.

COACH ROBINSON: I thought Vlady played a great game. I don't know which game you were
watching tonight, but I thought he played very, very well. He carried the puck a couple of
times, made a couple of great plays that we should have deflected in, and it is
unfortunate that he was on the ice for that one, but not much you can do. Modano tipped
that one right out of the air, but Vlady has been playing very well.

Q. What was it like in the room? Was it devastation, disappointment?

COACH ROBINSON: The guys, they are down a little bit, but, you know, we do have a
cushion here a little bit. It was a great game, you know. I mean, we hit 3 posts, Bobby
Holik could have had like 6 goals himself. Alex had a break-a-way that could have went in.
But Belfour stood on his head and played extremely well. So we should be disappointed
because, you know, it could have been all over, but there is nothing you can do about it.
We now have to go back there and win another game, that is all.

Q. (inaudible)

COACH ROBINSON: That is my job, so, we will work on that tomorrow. Got a
two-and-a-half-hour flight, you know, to think about it. But they should -- I mean, it is
natural to be down after a loss. So I won't expect them to be jumping up and down and all
smiles.

Q. How tough is it going to be having a 6-period game, losing it, travelling, and
playing again, you know, on just a very short rest like that?

COACH ROBINSON: Well, I think we are the fresher team anyway. With Modano playing about
75 minutes tonight, he probably played more than, you know, half of our team put together.
Every second shift he was out there, so, I mean, he's not a young man anymore either, and
they have got a lot of guys that played a lot of hockey. So I think with the way our guys
play and the fact that we use more players than they do, it should be an advantage to us
going back there.

Q. You have been around this game a long time. You played a long time with Ken Dryden.
Was that the best goaltending duel?

COACH ROBINSON: That was great goaltending. Not that -- the stops that they made were
of the spectacular kind, but any time it is a goaltender duel -- (inaudible) I was part of
a goaltender duel; ended up 8-7, hopefully we won't get to see one of those.

Q. Given that this game was so tight, does it really take much out of you guys
emotionally the fact that you lost it?

COACH ROBINSON: That is the way it usually is in overtime, you either go a long time or
it is over in the first five minutes. Not too often is there pretty goals that are scored.
It is usually -- I told the guys before just be throwing pucks at the net and anything can
happen. Watching the Colorado game where Matvichuk just threw it and Nieuwendyk tipped the
puck, those are the type of goals that go in in overtime. So it is just unfortunate it
went their way instead of our way, but I thought that they -- they were more concentrated
on going to the net than we were. We had too many guys standing at the side and Belfour
was getting to see too many of the shots.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT