NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
June 8, 2000
Larry Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Talk about the anticipation of this night, knowing that a win will bring the Cup in,
knowing the Cup is in the house, and just your thought on the whole anticipation of the
evening?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Well, the Cup has been in the house all along, so that is not going to
change. It follows wherever the series goes. Anticipation, well, it was a very short
night, but this is what it is all about. Hopefully, we are -- everybody is prepared and
well rested and well focused. I think that is what it's really going to come down to. We
can't be looking at the end result. We have to look at what we have to do on the first
shift, first period, and then go from there. I think you are giving yourself false hopes
if you are looking at the end result, because we don't know what the end result is going
to be. It's a very veteran team that we are playing against, a good hockey team. Every
game has been extremely close, and every game has just been a bounce here or a bounce
there, so we have to be realistic; and, by being realistic, if we don't play well, then we
are going to get beat. We have to put our best game on the ice. 
 
Q. As a player, did you ever play a bad game in a Cup clincher?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: According to me or according to somebody else? (laughs). 
 
Q. According to anyone.
 
 COACH ROBINSON: I don't really -- I mean, I can't remember back that far, first of all.
But I was involved in a -- very fortunate to be involved in a number of them. I think the
last game against Calgary in 1989, I don't think that I was happy with my game. Mind you,
I was older. I think I ran out of gas is basically what it was, but I didn't think that I
had a great game. I went away from that, from losing that game to Calgary, knowing that I
thought that maybe I could have made more of a difference. 
 
Q. The fact that you have played in so many Cup-clincher games, do you think it has an
effect on some of your younger players who might listen a little more closely, the fact
that you have been there, have experienced it, and know what it takes to get that final
win?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: You know what, I don't know if anybody knows what it takes to get that
final win. I told them this morning, I said that if you are nervous, then you should be.
If you are scared, then you should be. Because if you have never been nervous and you have
never been scared, then you have never been in the Playoffs. That is what Playoffs is all
about. And it is not -- it is not a fear as we know it. It is not like a fear of dying or
a fear of falling off a bridge, or whatever. It is just -- it is a different kind of
feeling that you get, knowing that it is so close, but yet knowing that it is again so far
away. That is what being in this situation is all about. So it is so important that you
don't lose your focus. 
 
Q. Are you going to give them any kind of special speech or address before the game
tonight?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: I will do my normal thing, I guess. 
 
Q. Tirade?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: No tirade, no. (laughs). I have got something planned, yeah. 
 
Q. Can you just talk about how your defensive pairings came together? It seemed so
simple: One guy very mobile, one guy physical. Was it easy to define that match?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Well, Scotty and Brian have been together since Day-1. Dano and Nieder
have been together since before Day-1. Only leaves two guys left. So it just was kind of a
fit. Vlady came to us late in the season and so did Colin, so, they just seemed to be the
right fit. And just for those reasons that you mentioned, it gives us a stay at home
defenseman and a physical defenseman on each pairing and three guys that can carry the
puck. 
 
Q. How easy -- it won't be easy, but how important is it for you to try and tap into
the vulnerability of Dallas right now?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Well, I don't look at it like they are vulnerable. I think they have --
they have all the ingredients of a great team otherwise they wouldn't be here right now.
So I don't look at it as so much tapping into their vulnerability as much as we have to
play to our strengths and we have to stay away from their strengths. And I think their
biggest strength is certainly their powerplay. You can look at the statistics and say:
Well, they are whatever, 3 for 35 or whatever it is - I don't know what - I am not a big
believer in statistics, but you still know that they have powerful guns out there on the
powerplay. So we have got to stay away from taking foolish penalties, needless penalties.
That is the bottom line. We can't allow their good players to have time. I mean, it is not
a secret. I think good hockey players, if you give them time, they are going to make the
plays so you have got to take away their time out there. We have to remain being physical
and remain making the easy plays; not trying to do something that we are not capable of. 
 
Q. Whether it is a myth or reality the perception is that the guy who you played for on
a lot of those Cup teams, Scotty Bowman, you played -- the siege mentality, the players
didn't -- they played hard for him; they didn't necessarily love him. I get the impression
from your team that it's a different relationship - the guys seem to play for you because
they like you. Do you prefer it that way as opposed to the other way?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: No, I think every era has a different philosophy and I think Scotty is
the first one to admit that he has mellowed quite a bit since the early days. But in the
early days a lot of the times you played through fear - fear of being sent to the minors;
fear of losing your job and I think the Player's Association has created a more
comfortable level for players that way. But you can say what you want about Scotty, about
maybe not liking him. Maybe it is not necessarily liking Scotty; maybe you didn't like the
way he did certain things, but the bottom line is that I think we respected him because he
got the most out of players and he knew what he had to do to get players going. So I think
maybe there were some of his methods that we disagreed with, but I still think that in the
end we still respected the man because he made us all better players. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT