NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
June 6, 2000
Larry Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Is it worse for you guys or worse for the guys down 3-1 (regarding bumps and
bruises)?

COACH ROBINSON: I don't think it is an advantage or disadvantage for either one. It
depends on which team is suffering most from bumps and bruises. And I think both teams are
probably a little banged up. It has been a very physical series. So I think if there was
momentum involved, it would hurt the team that has momentum. As I said last night at the
press conference, when you get to the Stanley Cup Finals, I think momentum is kind of
thrown out the door. Each game is its own little series, and that is the way that we have
to look at it.

Q. Marty Brodeur said a second ago that your team learned from the 3-1 deficit against
the Flyers, that you can kind of apply in reverse now because you have been part of that.
Is that the mindset?

COACH ROBINSON: We were there firsthand, and we know that everybody was kind of
counting us out. And there is a lot of veterans on the Stars, and I am sure they all
believe that they have got nothing to lose, and they are going to come out and give it
their best shot. So that is the way that we have got to look at it as well. We have got to
look at this as being like a 7th game. We have to be prepared to go hard. It took 40
minutes for us to get on track. I think we made some mistakes. We got a little
overexuberant; took some needless penalties. That is a great powerplay that they have got,
and we can't expect to score shorthanded goals to win us games, especially Finals like
this. We have to play smart, and we have to be ready go.

Q. You spoke a little bit about your rookies last night after the game. What made you
decide to put so much faith in that group of those four guys who have been so successful
for you in these Playoffs?

COACH ROBINSON: Everybody else looks at them as rookies. I don't. I look at them as
hockey players with talent and with strengths, and you don't put a guy out there because
he is first year in the League. You put a guy out there because you believe that he is
capable of fulfilling whatever you want done on that shift. So I don't look at a guy as a
rookie. I look at a guy that he is an another member of our team and a very important
member of our team.

Q. Do you look at Gomez and White and say these guys don't get it, they are not
nervous, they show no wear and tear on what the magnitude of this is....

COACH ROBINSON: Trust me, they are nervous. I could be there father, but I still get
really nervous. If you don't get nervous, then you don't care. I can't say that they don't
care. They care a lot. Everybody hides their nervousness in different ways, and it is up
to each of the individuals to use that nervousness and that energy that they have to help
them be better players on the ice. I think that is what is happening right now. They are
using that nervousness to help them play through fatigue, because I am sure I know
everybody is fatigued at this point. You don't play as long as we have and not get a
little bit tired. So that is how you have got to use that nervousness.

Q. With all your close season experiences -- (inaudible)

COACH ROBINSON: I really -- I don't look at it from a personal standpoint. I look at
this as a great opportunity. We have come a long way. We have gone through a lot of
obstacles up until now, and the satisfaction and the feeling that I get is when it is
over. You know the old saying you don't count their chickens before they are hatched. We
have got a long way to go now, and there is nothing that we want to do more then to get
this thing over with, no more than myself. I mean, we have been at this a long time; got a
grandson waiting to see his grandfather. So I'd like to get back and see him.

Q. (inaudible)

COACH ROBINSON: You try not to think about it. I think that what you have to do, and
what I try to do, is just to concentrate on what you have to do to play and what you are
going to be facing. And what you try to do is to think what they are thinking about. I
think that is maybe what helps you, that, you know, you try to put yourself in their
situation and what they were thinking if you were the one that were in their position. You
go out there like there is no tomorrow. Try to take it a shift at a time and not get
yourself too emotionally involved and do something foolish out there that could cause your
team to be at a disadvantage.

Q. (inaudible)

COACH ROBINSON: Everybody thinks differently, but I know how I would feel if I was in
that position. In fact, I have got nothing to lose. You just go out there and try to do
the best that you can. And I am sure they realize that they were in this game right up
until third period last night, so they have got a lot of very good hockey players over
there, veteran hockey players that have been there before, and they are not going to quit,
we know that.

Q. What has been the difference in this series?

COACH ROBINSON: A couple of bounces here and there. You look at every series, and
there's always things that happen along the way, where you get a bounce here or a lucky
goal or an opportunity that, you know, went wide. I look back to the game last night and
-- where Modano has that great chance. Marty comes sliding out and makes a great save, you
know. So there are always little turning points that can make a difference in a series.

Q. Are you using the Philly series to keep them focused -- (inaudible)

COACH ROBINSON: No.

Q. What is your message to them?

COACH ROBINSON: What is my message?

Q. Yes.

COACH ROBINSON: Get some rest. Get some fluids in your body, because these two games
here were really hot. I think rest at this point is really important at this juncture of
the series. Try to stay focused. I think that is the most important thing. When you are in
this position, you know you are going to have thousands of people telling you how great
you are and how you are going to walk around with the Cup the next game and so on, so
forth. And that has got to be the furthest thing from your mind. You have to deal with
reality, and reality is we still got to win another game, and it is a big win and probably
the hardest one to win.

Q. Do you think your youth has been a big factor in this series?

COACH ROBINSON: Our youth? Thank you very, very much (Laughter.) Well, I think -- I
don't know if youth has a huge bearing on it. This is something that as a coach you cannot
teach how to be in pressure situations and be in a situation like this. This is a great
teacher for them, and it is going to help them in their future careers, and everybody has
made a contribution. That is the great thing about this Playoff run is that we have had
some outstanding leadership from our veterans, but we have gotten, you know, every night
there is somebody else that has stepped it up, and it hasn't just been a one- or a two-man
team. That is what it has been. It has been a team effort, from guys that maybe only got
in two or three games, to guys that are out there practicing and not maybe getting
involved in the games. It has been a team effort from everybody.

Q. (inaudible)

COACH ROBINSON: It is always great to win it in front of your home crowd. But
personally, I had as much fun winning it on the road, because that plane ride back was
always fun.

Q. What is the key to ending it in Game 5? When you have got -- seems like you are
quicker, more relentless, less fatigued?

COACH ROBINSON: The fourth win is always the toughest one because, I don't know, for
some reason or other, you know, the end looks like it is so close, but yet it is so, so
far away. You know, you got to keep telling yourself that it is -- that it is not over;
and like I said, there is going to be so many distractions with people telling you, oh,
you know, you are going to win it at home; so on, so forth. You just got to really, really
-- this is a -- more a mental time of the year than any time before that, because it --
there are so many distractions, and we have to be and remain as focused as we ever have.

Q. A lot better to be 3-1 than 1-3?

COACH ROBINSON: Well, yeah. But like I said, last one is the toughest one.

Q. More stress as a coach than as a player?

COACH ROBINSON: There is a lot of difference. As I said before, I think the toughest
thing about being a coach is that you have to be preparing 20 or 24 guys as opposed to
just preparing yourself. And you are always thinking of what you can do to prepare them
and what you can say, and say it at the right time, and when is the best time, and stuff
like that. So it is difficult.

Q. Is it more satisfying in some ways?

COACH ROBINSON: Yes, a lot more.

Q. You can walk up to --

COACH ROBINSON: Carpenter and I were talking about that the other night, and Carp was a
player when we won the Cup here 1994/1995, I guess it was. He was just telling me that the
feeling that he got when we won in Philadelphia, something that he has never seen before.
I said it was great as a player because you were so banged up and you have been playing
for so long and you are going: "Oh, geez, it is finally over. My bruises can go
away." For a coach, it is just seeing guys that have never been there before, the
euphoria that they are seeing, and, you know -- actually, you know what they are feeling
because you were there before. So it is great to see guys that are jumping around like
little kids. It is just -- it is a super feeling for a coach.

Q. (inaudible)

COACH ROBINSON: The first time I think it is like a novelty, it is great, and it is
something that you have never felt before, but the second one, you know, you are kind of
looking forward to it, because you know the feeling that you had before. And so I think
you get to relish the second one a little more than you did maybe the first one because it
is -- all the first-time memories and everything else, you probably said to yourself:
Well, gee, there are a lot of things -- I was so excited. There were a lot of things that
I had done. So you can use the second one maybe a little bit more to your advantage.

Q. What are you doing differently as a coach?

COACH ROBINSON: I haven't done anything differently.

Q. Might be more keen?

COACH ROBINSON: No. I was still keen when I left L.A.. Everybody just said I looked
older, so I am now older.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT