NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
June 5, 2000
Larry Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Larry, a lot of players getting hit in the head in these Playoffs. Would you say
that was a cheap hit that Derian Hatcher put on Jason Arnott, no penalty call?

COACH ROBINSON: I am not the referee, so I can't call those. Four of them out there;
one didn't see it. But I honestly played it back, I thought maybe he hit him with the
stick, but he didn't. Definitely was with -- some of the penalties that were called, that
definitely was -- should have been a penalty. But, hey, it is a tough job, and you
certainly don't want to be the cause -- I am sure they feel they don't want to be the
cause of a win or a loss. Just live with it.

Q. I know that you are focused in on the task at hand, but is there any sort of
bittersweet feelings to be this close to the Stanley Cup to know this is the end of the
McMullen era and Jersey, and a lot of things are going to change?

COACH ROBINSON: Honestly, I haven't even given it one thought.

Q. Could you just talk about two rookies scoring such big goals back-to-back in the
third period?

COACH ROBINSON: Well, definitely those were huge goals. Definitely, we dug a big hole
for ourselves by taking as many penalties. That is probably the first time in this Playoff
series where we definitely lost our composure and took some very stupid penalties.
Luckily, our penalty killing came up big and got a goal for us. Madden missed a good
chance right just before that, then came back got the other one. But those were definitely
huge turn of events for us.

Q. On a team like yours, we have so many veterans, been through so many wars before,
how do you feel -- how big a lift do you get from your four rookies, first time to the
Playoffs, yet they seem -- every game seems to come up with something big?

COACH ROBINSON: Well, I don't look at it -- I don't really look at them as four
rookies. To be honest with you, they are four very talented hockey players, and otherwise
they won't be on the field. This is a great learning experience for them, and they are
going to get better, and they have been put into different situations because they deserve
to be in better situations. The only way they are going to get experience and get better
is to be in those situations and, you know, have success or failure. Even through failure
sometimes you learn a lot about yourself or about the player, and all of our rookies have
performed extremely well.

Q. What were the elements of Madden's penalty killing? What makes him effective?

COACH ROBINSON: Believe it or not, it is his quickness. He is one of the quicker guys
for the first ten or fifteen feet. The other thing, he is a student of the game. He
studies the players. He is very good at getting his angles and knocking pucks out of the
air. And anticipation, I think all those are great traits. That is why Carbonneau for all
those years was such a great penalty killer is that because of his anticipation and his
ability to knock pucks out of the air and get the angles.

Q. I think Dallas was 11 and 0 with the lead after two periods going into this game.
Can you talk about the third period you guys had and why you were able to come back, you
think?

COACH ROBINSON: Well, I think really that, you know, the tying goal gave us a huge
lift. Up until that point, we had a number of good chances. But we either made a pass and
it deflected away, or Eddie came up with some big saves. Just breaking the ice and getting
that first goal gave us a lift, certainly a shorthanded goal is a big demoralizer for any
club, and that gave us a lift. Then Raffy jumped on that loose puck and made a great play.

Q. You talked about the two chances Madden had. First shot he shot wide. Second time,
did you think he might pass?

COACH ROBINSON: No, we looked -- when we were looking from the bench, he had the same
shot the first time, and he just was a little fine on it. And I was saying to myself:
Please don't pass it this time, because he had the same amount of net to shoot at. Usually
the guy that goes in the first time doesn't usually miss the second, so it was a big lift
for us.

Q. Talk about momentum in the Final as opposed to any other series with the wear and
tear and everything involved in this situation. 

COACH ROBINSON: Well, I think momentum sometimes in most cases, I think in the Finals
isn't really appropriate, because it is not like, well, you have got another series to go,
and so these guys know that there is no tomorrow, and usually the last one's the hardest
one to win. Definitely the longer you go in a series, the more things that can happen
through injuries or bad luck. I mean, we know this firsthand, having come through a series
ourselves where we thought that we were down and out of it and never gave up. So there is
no reason why, with the amount of veterans that they have and the talent and experience
that is over there, that they are going to come out even stronger the next game.

Q. You seem to be beating them right now with your legs at the key moments of games.
You seem to be a bit fresher, younger, bit quicker. You play for teams that won Stanley
Cups by being able to outskate opponents as well?

COACH ROBINSON: The game of hockey is speed. But you can't tell me that Nieuwendyk and
Modano are slow out there. They are flying. It is just that we were able to get our sticks
on some of their shots, and few of the times that they had some chances, Marty came up
with some big saves. That is the way the game -- that is the way -- sometimes you get some
bounces, sometimes you don't.

Q. Speaking of Rafalski, the goal that he had was huge, but talk about the stops that
he made on the Stars a couple of their shots early on.

COACH ROBINSON: Well, I mean, when Brian is on his game, he has got the ability with
his skating ability. He is a lot like Niedermayer in that the two of them can skate the
puck out of danger, even tonight when Dallas were dumping the puck in, he was able to get
back and carry the puck out of danger. And one trait that he has had since he came to our
club in training camp is that if he sees the ice very well, sometimes he is hanging on to
it a little too long. But most of the time, he can see a lot of the open men and makes
great passes; got very underrated shot. Most of the time he gets it on net.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT