NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
June 5, 2000
Larry Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Obviously, the big story for Dallas is the return of Langenbrunner. Your plans to do
anything differently, or is it just what you guys have been doing has been working and
that is the way you are going to do it?

COACH ROBINSON: There is no doubt that, you know, he is a proven Playoff performer. And
they keep saying that Nieuwendyk is a different player when Langenbrunner is there, so it
is up to the guys that are on the ice against Nieuwendyk and Langenbrunner to pay
attention to him. He is probably going to bring a lot of energy. Physical player; good
around the net. So we have to pay attention to him the same as we have to pay attention to
everybody on that team. We faced the same situation, the Philly series with Lindros coming
back. We realize that they are great players. You just have to adjust accordingly.

Q. Does the pressure build on the players having been there as the series goes on, or
does it stay the same or get less?

COACH ROBINSON: I don't know. I think each individual is different in how they handle
pressure. There is no doubt about it, there is a lot of pressure on all these kids in the
Playoffs; more so the ones that maybe would know what they are getting into. A lot of the
youngsters are -- can use that nervous energy to maybe make them play better. But there is
no doubt about it, Playoffs are pressure. But it is good pressure. It is going to make all
of these kids much better players; especially seeing how that they handle it and how they
play.

Q. The talk on the Dallas side is a lot about how they have got to get scoring from
people other than Modano's group. I wonder if you guys are talking about taking heat off
the Arnott/Elias/Sykora lineup?

COACH ROBINSON: We can't expect one line to do all the scoring for us. I think we have
had other lines that have had great chances. They just haven't been able to finish. It is
my hope that we will get some scoring from other people. We got a goal the other night
from Alex. Gomez has been around there -- Bobby and Claude; that he can score some goals.
The nice thing about it is we have got some scoring on every line. It just so happens that
the Arnott line doesn't score goals and it is up to other guys to do the scoring.

Q. When you have played more than 100 games at this point of the season, how much
difference does it make it that you got fresher legs, all four lines; is that a big
advantage for you?

COACH ROBINSON: I think when you get down to this point of the season I don't think it
really comes down to, you know, how many games we have played or whether I have been using
four lines or not. I think, you know, there is so much at stake that I don't really think
that fatigue plays a big matter. A lot of the times your emotion also take over from the
fatigue part of it. But there is no doubt that we can -- we have to try to wear their guys
down that play a lot more. So that means being physical on the players that are playing a
lot.

Q. Can you talk about Bobby Holik's play throughout the Playoffs?

COACH ROBINSON: Bobby has had the job of checking most of the other teams' big lines
and has done a very good job of doing that. He played against Sundine, he has had to play
against Primeau. I think that he has sacrificed a lot of his offensive play in order to
play better defensively, but he's still been getting his chances. He has been taking key
faceoffs for us as well. So he's been a big part of our club.

Q. When you first took over in late March, could you conceive in your mind that this is
the time, this run -- was it a time when you were just trying to make things happen a day
at a time?

COACH ROBINSON: I always do that. Life is full of ups and downs, and I just try -- try
not to get too high with the wins or too low with the losses. If you can stay at more of
an even keel, I think you can keep your emotions under control. You can make better
decisions if you are not emotionally involved. So that is all I try to do.

Q. Are all the rabbits out of the hat strategically now, and it is a case of: Let's
have --

COACH ROBINSON: I think we have played each other enough now that I don't think there
are a lot of secrets. They claim that they have another gear that they can go to and play
better. I also think that we have more gears that we can go as well. We have had great
offense from the Arnott line, but we are kidding ourselves if we think that, you know, one
line can do all the scoring. We have got to get good play from all of our lines.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT