NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
June 3, 2000
Larry Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How bad is the ice out there?

COACH ROBINSON: Ice is fine. It is frozen.

Q. Really it is remarkable considering how many penalties you guys took during the
regular season that you only have been shorthanded once so far in the Final. Is it just a
matter of turn the other cheek; is that the whole emphasis on your part?

COACH ROBINSON: Well, the main thing is that we know that they have a good powerplay
and penalties shouldn't -- shouldn't be taking penalties unless they are saving the goal
or they are necessary. It is not so much the penalties that hurt you as it is the
unnecessary penalties and a lot of the times it is from not being in the right position or
being lazy and I think most of it is that we have made a concentrated effort to try to be
in a good position and not be lazy and also realizing that unnecessary penalties hurt your
team more than help your team. I think that is the main reason why we have stayed out of
the penalty box as much as we can.

Q. Do you notice a significant improvement from last series to this in Randy McKay and
did you talk to him much between the Philly series, start of this one, about his game the
way you had used him again the Flyers?

COACH ROBINSON: Well, the thing is that it just -- it was kind of the way the games
went in that Randy, I didn't feel, was playing as well or maybe was forcing a little bit
and a lot of the times I talked to Randy about it and mostly it was because he sat for a
long periods of time because of the penalty and powerplay situations and he just found
that it was hard to get himself going. So I mean, Randy's game is, you know, in front of
the net, grinding it out and being physical and I talked to him after the Philadelphia
series and said that this is another series and get back to where he was before. He has
worked really, really hard before this series began and has been concentrating on what he
has to do and has -- and he has done what he is supposed to do, but he is a pro and he's a
leader out there and he will do whatever it takes for him to help the team out. Just
having him positive and talking to the young kids and being ready when he is called upon,
that is all you can ask for.

Q. When Hitch started Modano's line in Game 1 starting lineup, you came up with the
Arnott line and it was as if to say we are going to play power against power or that is a
matchup that you embrace. Do you talk to your players about that or is it understood that
when you put them out against best versus best or power versus power that you expect your
guys to win that battle?

COACH ROBINSON: Well, I expect our best lines to be responsible as much as any matchup,
but I don't think that when I put a line out there I don't want that to be the sole line
to go against like if I put Arnott against Modano that doesn't mean that one of the other
lines won't get against him as well. I believe that I have certain guys that match up well
against his players and if he likes the matchup then fine I will stick with it unless we
are having problems with it. Otherwise, if he tries another matchup then I have to have a
backup and especially when you are on the road you can't always get the matchup that you
want so you have to have more than one line that is capable of playing against one of his
lines.

Q. Do you feel the feeling-out process with these two teams is over now?

COACH ROBINSON: Well, I think the feeling-out process is called Game 1. Really that is
why it is always nice to get that first game out of the way and you kind of know where you
stand and what is going on and who you have to watch and what you have to prepare for. But
also, at the same time, I think that we really haven't seen what our team can do when we
are at our best and they are at their best. So I think this is going to be a good test for
us tonight. It is a tough building to play in, but it is actually a good building. Our
guys like to play in buildings like this.

Q. You sort of answered this question about the line matchups before, with Hitch having
the last change here, is that a major factor to you or do you not worry that you have to
have a certain person out there against another?

COACH ROBINSON: Well, if you have got to worry about matchups then you don't have
confidence in all your guys. I have confidence that any one of our lines can play against
any one of their lines. We will just see how the game goes.

Q. Can you just talk about what Lehtinen being put back with Modano and Hull in Game 2
did for those two guys and maybe -- or the way you have to attack that line?

COACH ROBINSON: Well, I don't think -- you can't take anything away from the young kid
Morrow. I thought he's played great on that line. He brings a lot of enthusiasm. He's a
good skater, goes to the net well. You also can't replace a Lehtinen who is -- he's a
great two-way player and I think what it does, it gives the other two guys the luxury of
being able to take a lot more chances because they know Lehtinen can -- will be able to
cover up for them with his experience. But I don't think there is a big change other than
a little bit of different style of player.

Q. Did you have any discussions with the Arnott line about getting it going the way
they did in Game 1?

COACH ROBINSON: Not necessarily the Arnott line per se but I have talked to everybody
on that line and they know that they weren't up to par last game. I thought Arnott was
fine. I think the other two guys didn't have one of their better nights but those things
happen and they have got to bounce back from them.

Q. Why is this building so difficult for teams to play in?

COACH ROBINSON: I don't know, because everybody says it is.

Q. You just said it.

COACH ROBINSON: I said it because that is what I have been reading from you guys all
along. (laughter). I mean, me, particularly, and a lot of our guys enjoy the challenge of
playing in the opponent's rink. There is a lot of screaming, a lot of yelling going and as
much as it gets maybe their guys going, I think it gets our guys going. We seem to have
played better in Philly in front of a loud crowd. We know that there is not a show to put
on for the home fans. I think we concentrate on playing a better game and a better rounded
game when we are on the road.

Q. You said you hesitated somewhat in the last game and thought that maybe you should
have switched up your top line before the end of the game. How long do you wait before you
do that if you find yourselves behind in this game?

COACH ROBINSON: Well, I think I have to react to it a lot quicker than maybe I did the
last game. If I see there are guys that aren't going, then we will definitely have to
change things around.

Q. Getting back to the theme of this building, the humidity has a tendency to change
the ice surface once the game gets into the later moments. Does that become a factor at
all?

COACH ROBINSON: No. I think that ice conditions and everything else are played way out
of proportion. I think the big difference maybe is in a place like Colorado where they
practice every day and are used to the higher elevation, but when you get into temperature
conditions really, when we left New Jersey it wasn't any different than when we arrived
here yesterday. Same temperature, same humidity. When the game starts and the guys are on
the ice, the other team is playing under the same conditions that you are playing under,
so I don't really see where it is a factor.

Q. Obviously you'd like to win both games here, but have you maybe said if not to your
team, to yourself, that if you can split here and go back with home ice, that is a big
key; would you be happy with that?

COACH ROBINSON: No. We are coming here to win both games.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT