NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
June 2, 2000
Larry Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Do you think it may be easier for your team to play disciplined kind of hockey on
the road as opposed to being here with a full house and maybe a desire to entertain?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: No, I think discipline is a mindset. It has nothing to do with where
you are playing. It is how you are focusing and where your mind is. I think if you put
your mind where it should be and you are focused on what you got to do, then you are not
going to be involved in those kinds of things. I don't think it has anything to do with
where you are. 
 
Q. (inaudible)
 
 COACH ROBINSON: I think that they (Dallas) forechecked much harder last night and they
were moving the puck through the neutral zone a lot better. They were finding those seam
passes because we were giving them more opportunities to do so. I thought we were very,
very guilty of one guy trying to beat three. They were just lining up three and four
across the blue line and we were losing and turning the puck over in the gray areas which
is the biggest sin a hockey player can do. When you are playing against a talented team
like that, you do not give them opportunities. They jump on those turnovers and we were
guilty of it time after time and that was our biggest downfall. 
 
Q. A lot has been made of the condition of the ice down there. Any difference?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Same for both teams. When you start making excuses for ice conditions
and all the boards aren't right or this isn't well or that isn't well, then you are not
being focused on what you have to do. It is the same for both teams. You just have to be
careful in the hot weather; that you don't get dehydrated; you make sure that you are well
hydrated and that you are getting lots of fluids in your body. You shouldn't have a
problem. 
 
Q. Occasionally in the Playoffs you guys have had the lapses where you have guys trying
to rush too much or defense misjudgment. Are you now more frustrated that it is still
happening --
 
 COACH ROBINSON: No. 
 
Q. ---or confidence that you can rebound?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: No, it is funny because Ken Hitchcock was saying the same thing about
his club, how they come, they show up for the one game; then they are not there for
another game. I think that the biggest thing is that I think when you have a little bit of
success, you sometimes get a little self-satisfied with yourself and you think it is just
going to be easy. I think that is just -- that is a little bit of the nature -- it is
natural to maybe think that way. It has been a long season and guys have had to work very,
very hard to get here. So I think it is -- sometimes it is natural to have a little bit of
a let-out. So I think it is important for guys to remain focused. I think it is a much
used word in the Playoffs but it is so very, very important. Two of the most important
words that you can use as a player or coach during the Playoffs are "Discipline"
and "Focus." Because there are so many distractions. I don't think you are going
to get this many media everyday at a practice or everyday at a game during the season. A
lot of these guys aren't used to this much attention. I think it is even more important to
not lose site of the fact of how you got to play and what you have got to do to be
successful. 
 
Q. This team has got a history of really playing exceptionally well on the road. What
do you guys like about --
 
 COACH ROBINSON: We don't have a show to put on. They don't have family and friends that
are coming to watch them play and score goals. They are concentrating on one thing and
that is; win the hockey game. That is the focus that you have to have. 
 
Q. You spoke briefly last night about the matchup, the Arnott line and Modano line.
Talk about that a little bit more.
 
 COACH ROBINSON: They got two goals with that matchup; I am sure he is going to like it.
We got four goals the night before; that is why I liked it. I think the biggest thing on
that line right now Lehtinen gives them an exceptional -- well, you have got the best
two-way player in hockey last year and voted so, and he makes a big difference on that
line. But both Modano and Hull are opportunists. I think the Arnott line last night was
guilty of giving the puck away too much. You can't do that against a line like Modano and
Hull. They have got to control the puck more. They have got to get skating. I thought the
three last night Arnie did a much better job. He was at least being physical. The other
two were really as dominant as they were the night before. They were non-existent last
night. 
 
Q. When you see that happening with them, what are your options?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: I kicked myself this morning. What I should have done is when I saw
that they weren't as sharp I should have probably broke that line up and maybe sat one of
them and played -- I thought Mogilny had great legs last night and I probably should have
maybe moved him up because he was ready to go and so I will take the blame for that one a
little bit myself because it was something that I thought about, but you always hope, I
mean, that is the same line that dominated the night before and you are hoping something
will get clicking and they will get going. But when I saw it wasn't happening, I probably
should have sat one of them on the bench and got the other one going. 
 
Q. Will you keep them together for tomorrow?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: If they are playing. 
 
Q. Do you like the idea of one against one?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: One line against one line? 
 
Q. No. 1 line against -- one line against the one line and A defense against A defense?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Well, it is the old adage of: If it ain't broke, don't fix it, and if
it is working why not stay with it. But if it's not, you have got to adjust. I think the
one thing about being on the road is that you don't have the last change so when you make
a decision you have got to make sure it is the right decision. 
 
Q. How about watching the game on TV, do you enjoy one against one more than one
against --
 
 COACH ROBINSON: I don't really look at a game and look at matchups or anything else
unless I am playing that particular team, then I am seeing who is having success against
one line but a lot of coaches in this League believe that here, this is our power; here's
your power, let's go at it. I think truthfully, though, what it comes down to is you want
your best or the defense pair that you feel best suits the team that they are going
against. 
 
Q. You were 1-1 against Toronto. 1-1 against Philly. Does that kind of give you some
confidence?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: There is no doubt about it, the game last night is over with so there
is nothing you can do about it. At this point you are not going to hang your head and for
sorry for yourself because nobody feels sorry for us right now. We know that we are a much
better team than we showed and I don't think that this is time for us to start looking
back. We have got to look ahead. I know we can play better and it is too bad. Everybody
says well, that is all you hear. You can't do the thing the easy way. My answer to that
is: Why not - be a lot easier on us as coaches if it was done the easy way. But there are
no easy ways. Everything takes a lot of hard work and we just have to get back to doing
the things that we did before. 
 
Q. What kind of things did you tell your team, throwing any trash cans, screaming,
hollering anything like that?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: It is unfortunate that if you have to start screaming and kicking trash
cans at this point of the year, this is the most important time of the season; the most
important times of their careers and if they can't get motivated or they can't handle
things at this juncture or at this time of the year, then we are only kidding ourselves of
what kind of hockey players they will be. This is where your true stars and true players
come out with the grit that you want on your organization. The other guys, they are the
guys that shine at this time of the year. 
 
Q. So essentially it is a light touch right now?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: It's not a light touch. We got to get back to where we were. We got
away from it. As Jason was saying, we played their game last night. The pushing and the
shoving and the scrums after the whistles. That is -- that gets our focus off our game.
That is not our game. It is not that we can't handle it. It's not that we are not a tough
team, but this is not a time to prove who is tough right now. This is a time to prove who
can play the game the best. 
 
Q. Injury-wise?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Fine. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT