NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
June 1, 2000
Larry Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Wondering if you could comment on the progress of Brian Rafalski. You seemed to have
more confidence in him as Playoffs have gone on. Would you comment?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Brian has been playing really, really well. I thought tonight, though,
he was trying to do way too much. As a result, they were forcing him to turn the puck over
way too much. But when he is on his game he moves the puck and can skate really well. He's
a very valuable player for us. 
 
Q. The fact that it is Hull and Modano, is that why a player would try to get in a
situation like this -- two guns like that try to do too much?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: No, I don't think so. Just a case of nothing happening out there and
trying to do it all himself instead of sticking with the game plan, I think more so that. 
 
Q. Those two, did they pose a particular problem? Does this combination in particular
pose a different set of problems?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Well, I think in a way, yes, because Modano can create his own space
out there. He is such a skilled player, when he gets the puck, he is very dangerous to any
defensemen. Hull, I mean, probably the best pure shooter in the League. Doesn't need, as
he showed on that one goal, even though it was four feet off side, he doesn't need a lot
of chances. 
 
Q. In the Philly series, a lot was made about you guys trying to carry the puck in. Do
you think your guy did that?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Way too much. They lined up 4 across the blue line. They were trying to
beat them. That is why we didn't get any penetration. 
 
Q. A little bit Dallas defensemen sagging back, showing your forwards the blue line a
little bit?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: No, just guys not doing what they are supposed to do. 
 
Q. Do you feel like you have let a golden opportunity slip away? You dominated Game 1,
dominated a lot of this game, had a chance to get out of here and have Stanley Cup
Champions down 2-0, do you --
 
 COACH ROBINSON: I don't think we dominated the game. I think that Dallas were much more
aggressive on their forecheck tonight. I thought our decisions tonight with the puck were
very poor, and I think overall that was probably our worse game that we have played in
probably the last four, five games. And yet we were still very, very close. So it is
encouraging that we can play as poorly as we did and still be close to the Stanley Cup
Champions. As much as they may feel good about themselves, we don't feel very good about
ourselves, because we didn't show them our best game. So now we are 1 and 1. They didn't
play their best game; we didn't play our best game. So we are going back to Dallas to see
who is the best when we both play well. 
 
Q. Go back to the comment about it being four feet off side. Explain the play and what
you are talking about, please.
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Just before the goal they came across, I spoke to one of the linesmen
about the play, and he missed it. He was looking for the icing and showed clearly on the
replay that Lehtinen was about four feet off side when the puck entered the zone, and then
shortly after that, the puck went over to Hull and he scored the goal. But, hey, that is
not the reason we lost. 
 
Q. You are disappointed obviously you lost. You go to Dallas. You guys have a
spectacular road record in the Playoffs. A split isn't that big.
 
 COACH ROBINSON: It's not the end of the world. It is the same -- I don't think it is
time to panic or anything like that. We certainly know we didn't play very, very well, and
we have to play a lot better in that building. We seem to play much better with adversity,
and we certainly created enough of that for ourselves. And so we just have to go back to
what we have been successful with. And we have stuck to our game plan very, very well.
This is certainly not 3-1. It is only one-to-one. There is no reason why we can't go in
there and play well and see what happens. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT