NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
June 1, 2000
Larry Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. They clearly feel they can be better in Game 2. Do you feel you could be better?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Yes. We made some mistakes as well, but I think the one common
knowledge amongst all of us is that they certainly can play better as well. They have got
a tremendous record after a first game loss, so we are prepared for their best. 
 
Q. Do you think these guys learned a lesson, your players learned a lesson from the
last series after winning Game 1 the hole you put yourselves in and do you focus on that?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: No, we don't focus on that. All we are focusing on is our preparation
for Game 2 and what we feel that Dallas may or may not do differently and focus on that. I
am not someone who dwells on the past that much. We look at maybe different things that we
did, but those series are over now and you have to prove yourself once again. 
 
Q. What are those changes you are expecting to see from Dallas tonight? What do you
expect to see differently from the get-go tonight that you didn't see in Game 1?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Just going back by some records we have of their game against Colorado
and they come out slow in their first game against Colorado but were more aggressive, a
lot more forechecking and more physical, so those are the kind of things that we are
probably looking at. 
 
Q. So far in the Playoffs you have been able to shut down the opponents's top scorers.
What have your forwards been doing to make that happen?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Well, I think that it is not just the forwards. I think defense and the
forwards in unison, you have to take away a lot of their time. I think the way I look at
it a bad hockey player becomes a good hockey player when he has time. A good player
becomes a great player when he has time, so great players become even greater when they
are given time to do things. You got two of the best passers in the League in Modano and
Hull and a great offensive player and a guy that is great around the net in Nieuwendyk, so
you can't give these guys time. If you give them time they are going to make the plays so
you have got to get on them quickly. 
 
Q. Talk about the status of John Madden if his knee is good enough?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: He is fine. 
 
Q. Will you limit his shifts?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: No. 
 
Q. If you would gauge the importance of this game at this point before going to Dallas?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Well, you want the old cliches that go along with it? Game 2s are
important because as a visiting team when they come in, if they lose the first game
basically they are saying, well, let's go back with a split; then they have got home-ice
advantage. Basically that is the importance of a Game 2. The importance for us is that
when you get your opponent down two to nothing it then puts a lot of pressure on them to
have to win back home. More so than anything else, the longer the series go on, more
things can happen and so you have got to take care of each game and each game has a great
importance and certainly this is a big one for us. We can't just be a flash in the pan to
show up for the first game and disappear. We have been guilty of that before and we
certainly aren't going to be able to come back 3-1 against every team. 
 
Q. You said before this series Game 1 would not be indicative of the rest of the
series. Surprised by the outcome of Game 1? What do you expect tonight because of that?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: You are always surprised to score 7 goals against a team like Dallas.
They pride themselves in being a great defensive team that doesn't allow a lot of goals.
So certainly it was a great surprise and so what you do is you wash away Game 1. I said
yesterday that I look at this as a 7-game series. Each game is a series in itself and so
once that game is over with, let's forget about it and go on to the next one. We have to
be prepared to meet a Dallas team at its best. 
 
Q. After you had your talk with Scott Gomez during the Toronto series, have you seen
consistent improvement from him and has he done everything that you had hoped he would
after speaking with him?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Yeah, well, I think he is back to where he was early on in the season.
I think his work ethic went down a little bit. He wasn't as aggressive as he was before
and the big improvement I have seen in him is his responsibilities in the defensive zone.
He is much more responsible about doing the job in the defensive zone. I think offensively
he is just -- he's a gifted player that is going to come naturally, but he's taken a lot
of pride in his defensive work. 
 
Q. So many teams are so banged up when they have reached this point. Does it seem as if
the Devils are relatively healthy compared to a lot of teams this late in the game?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Well, you are as healthy as you can be playing in a physical series
where you are playing every second night. If you don't have any bumps or bruises then you
haven't been playing that much. That is just the way it is. But we don't have any - touch
wood - we don't have anything serious to really speak about. I think Madden was our only
major casualty and it didn't turn out as bad as we had thought. 
 
Q. Hitchcock and Matvichuk said after the first game it was much easier to hate the
Devils -- they don't see you quite as (inaudible) -- in your experience does that sort of
rivalry, bitterness, sort of brew after Game 1 or Game 2 of a Stanley Cup Finals?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: "Hate" seems like a very harsh word to use. I think you
certainly can't love your opponent, but you know, I think rivalries are built through
competition. Certainly you build up rivalries over the years by competing against them in
the Playoffs. That is where you get your true rivalries. We haven't played against them
more than one or two games a year. So you certainly don't get to build up rivalries that
way. 
 
Q. Playing in June, would that have been a different world for you back in the '70s and
early '80s?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: We thought it was long when we were playing in May so -- it is
definitely not the way I think that, you know, most people would like it. I know speaking
to a lot of fans that I have talked to they say that they find it hard sometimes watching
games when it is in the middle of June. But there is no way getting around it. It's a long
season, long Playoffs, the nice thing about it is when you are playing in June it means
you have gone a long way. 
 
Q. Speaking of rivalries, comment on Sather's hiring today?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Good for Slats. 
 
Q. Is Petr Sykora all right? I did not see him out there?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Yeah, he's fine. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT