NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
May 30, 2000
Larry Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Have you confirmed your plans for tomorrow vis-a-vis the Richard funeral?

COACH ROBINSON: No, I spoke to Lou yesterday. He was supposed to finalize them today.

Q. As someone who has played in the Stanley Cup Finals; been involved in it a lot, what
advice can you offer those who haven't been there before, the younger players on your team
who haven't participated in this event before?

COACH ROBINSON: Well, I think the biggest thing that you can tell them is that it is no
different than obviously any other game except for all of this that is here. You are going
to get a lot more media attention and there is going to be a lot more demands put on your
time around practices and everything else, so it is very important for them to try to keep
focused and try to concentrate and not worry about the distractions that are going on
during the Finals.

Q. You have probably been asked variations of this question a thousand times, but as
someone who was able to rise to real great heights as a player during the Stanley Cup in
your days, do you have an added appreciation for what Scott Stevens has done for you so
far in these Playoffs?

COACH ROBINSON: Well, not really because I felt that Scotty has always been at the top
of his game. Nobody plays harder; nobody practices harder and is more dedicated than Scott
Stevens, so I am not surprised at how he has played. I am surprised at how he has been
able to keep it up because he has just been a tower of strength and at times he has played
a lot of minutes of hockey and the fact that he is a physical player, he is almost like
that Everready (sic) Bunny, he just keeps going and he has been a tower of strength for
us.

Q. Considering the way that New Jersey drafts and develops young players and they
produce so many, is it surprising to you that it has taken another five years to be back
in a Final for this organization?

COACH ROBINSON: Not really. I think unfortunately the way the drafts go every year you
can only keep so many players, so inevitably somebody is going to get away and even though
that you draft well and you have some good players, you can't protect everybody and so it
is a lot harder for clubs to win and to continue winning even though you draft; at some
point you are going to lose some good young players if they haven't fit into your club
already.

Q. Considering how Dallas' record isn't as great as one might expect and they have
perhaps top heavy scoring assortment, home matchups crucial; home ice crucial?

COACH ROBINSON: I think home ice is always crucial. But I don't know so much -- won't
take anything away from their or put any importance on their record, especially this year,
mostly because they have been often injured and a lot of key people have been out most of
the year. So right now, with maybe the exception of a couple of players, they are healthy.
I think they have proven they can win anywhere but you definitely have an advantage if you
want to put certain people against their key people and vice versa, it is always easier
for the home team.

Q. Your penalty kill has been outstanding throughout the Playoffs. Is the secret to
that strong positional hockey? Is that the key and in this type of series special teams
could make the difference in the series?

COACH ROBINSON: Well, I mean, we have been successful so far in the Playoffs, but again
you are starting a new series and I think if you look at the personnel that they have for
their powerplay you have pretty well the top players at each one of the positions. You are
not going to get a better, purer shooter than Hull; as far as passing and setting up plays
and speed Modano is probably at the top of his game. And then you have got one of the best
quarterbacks in the League in Zubov, so our penalty killing will be tested.

Q. Since yesterday the Stars were pretty loose and having fun with this entire
situation; whereas your guys seemed to be a little more business-oriented. Scott Stevens
himself said there is still a job to do in the Finals. How do you assess how your team is
feeling at this point?

COACH ROBINSON: I think I like the fact that we are more business-like. That is the way
that this whole Playoff series has been. I think we have gotten away from it from time to
time and our play has suffered. But this is still a business for us. I mean, winning the
other series means nothing. We set out at the start to get to the ultimate and the
ultimate is winning the Cup. Dallas is probably a little bit looser because most of those
guys have been there before. They are the defending champions, so they prepare the way
that they have to prepare but our guys know how we have to prepare and it is nice to know
everybody is focused.

Q. Considering how confident Ed Belfour appears to be right now, how important is it to
put some doubt in his mind early?

COACH ROBINSON: Well, any time you get against somebody that is confident, feeling good
about their play, best way is to go right at them and to challenge them right off the bat.
But it is not like he hasn't been challenged before. I think one of the games they won,
they were outshot 40 to 15 or 39 to 15, so we just have to find a way to get the puck by
him.

Q. Is Darren Hatcher their Scott Stevens or is that too simple a comparison?

COACH ROBINSON: That is a pretty good comparison. Both physical players; both play a
lot of minutes and both play against the other teams big lines, so I think it is a natural
comparison.

Q. In the last years against Philadelphia the first goal was so important - first team
that got it won every game. Against their experience, is it very important for you to get
the first goal; especially tonight?

COACH ROBINSON: I think for momentum-wise it is always nice to get -- especially early
in the series always nice to get the first goal. I think it is bound to give any team a
lift. Certainly means the other team has to score two in order to beat you, so it is
always nice to get out quick, yes.

Q. Are you nervous coaching your first Final?

COACH ROBINSON: No. Not yet. (laughs) Ask me that at five to. In any Playoff series I
think that for me the most important thing is to get a feeling in the first game. You can
look at films and you can do all the things that you want, but really that first game is
where all your work starts. I am not really looking any farther ahead than the first shift
and then we are going to see what happens after that.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT