NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: DEVILS v AVALANCHE
June 5, 2001
Larry Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Could you say something about the guys that have come in and played roll rolls so to speak, Sutton, McKenzie, Corkum, O'Donnell?
 
COACH ROBINSON: Well, I think through this whole Playoffs we have used more people and how had to use more people this year through injuries and what have you.  I think that it really is kind of a testament of the depth that Lou has been able to bring in and the guys that have contributed very well in everyone of the series we have had.  Guys like Corky and Jimmy Mac and of course Sutsy, but I don't  -- O'Donnell has been almost been in almost all of the games so I don't really count him as a spare. 
 

Q.  (Inaudible)
 
COACH ROBINSON: Only because with Arnott not available on the powerplay, I didn't want to have to over tax Scotty and play him, you know, a lot on the PP and Kenny Sutton is capable of playing the PP.  And just the fact that both him and Colin have played together.  It was just more of a move because of the absence of Arnott. 
 

Q.  Just talk about nothing comes easy for this team.  Circling the airport for a while?
 
COACH ROBINSON: 50 minutes, yeah.  Once around and in.  No, it was much better.  We knew by travelling last night I think some of the families that went down flew back last night; they didn't get until 5 in the morning.  So this way we got a good night's rest and good meal and then travelled today. 
 

Q.  Last year you had a chance in Game 5 to close out Dallas.  It was a classic fifth game that  --
 
COACH ROBINSON: That went on and on and on and on. 
 

Q.  Is there anything that your team maybe reflects on or learns from that to say, okay, when you are at home and you have the chance to close it just get it done?
 
COACH ROBINSON: Well, I wish it was that cut and dried.  But it is not.  Right now we have got two teams, one that can win it.  The other that can be eliminated.  So you have a desperate team, one that doesn't want to go back to Colorado and the other one that does.  So you are going to have two teams that are going to be playing their best hockey and we will just have to wait and see what happens.  But I know that  -- I know that we don't want to send it any farther and we will have to be at our best and play our best and if we do, then that's all we can ask for.  We will see what happens after that. 
 

Q.  Do you have any kind of an explanation?  You are 7 and 5 at home in the Playoffs.  8 and 3 on the road.
 
COACH ROBINSON: Well, I think most of it stems from I think we have more distractions at home than we have on the road.  You go on the read and all you got to worry about is getting dressed, going to the rink, coming back to the hotel.  I think at home you have family and friends all telling you how great you are and everything else and it is much harder to get focused.  So I think that's probably the major reason.  We seem to get more focused on the road just because of the distractions. 
 

Q.  Kind of a how-great-you-are type question, but did you get a chance to look again at Elias's goal?  Talk about the hand-eye coordination and the skill involved in stopping a puck in the air and dropping it down and taking the shot.
 
COACH ROBINSON: Well, both Sykora and Elias are very talented young players.  We have got a few guys on our team that have great skills.  So really when you see them score goals like that it is something that you have watched in practice and seen all year long, so you just kind of take it for granted.  But those are the kind of things that win hockey games for you.  They have scored some huge goals for us in this Playoff series. 
 

Q.  In the last two games just looks likes your team as a whole has looked hungrier and raised its level two or three notches.  Has that happened for any particular reason or did you see that happening in your mind at any particular time in Game 4?
 
COACH ROBINSON: Well, it's not that I looked for it.  I knew that in order for us to be able to compete against Colorado we had to at least match their work ethic and I think the first game we certainly did not match their work ethic.  We got outworked and outhustled.  Mistakes are all part of the game and the only thing that I ask of the players is that you know, when it is all said and done, just make sure that we are not being outworked and we are not being outhustled.  And if that's the case, then you know, all you can do is say well I gave it my best.  But if you are not working hard and you are being outhustled then certainly you are not going to stand a chance out there. 
 

Q.  Tomorrow you will have all the families I guess and fans coming here to see a celebration.  How do you block that out and have the team maybe not playing a little tight because of that expectation, that pressure?
 
COACH ROBINSON: I think both teams are going to be playing a little tight because there is a lot of pressure.  This is the Playoffs.  This is Stanley Cup Finals, so I think the best way to face it is when you go out there, you know, try to get a body check in right off the bat and loosen you up a little bit or  -- don't try to do things too fancy right off the bat, keep your game simple.  Both teams have been very aggressive getting the puck in and chasing it, especially early on in the game, and I am sure that's not going to change.  A lot of the times you get into games like that just comes down to who gets the bounce at the right time.  Hopefully for us, if we are working hard we will get the bounces. 
 

Q.  I think it was after Game 1 you said Sakic could have played with eggs in his pockets, it wouldn't have been broken.  Did you send that through media or did you deliver it direct after the game to them?
 
COACH ROBINSON: Well, a little bit of both.  I don't think that you can play in the Playoffs especially in a Finals by playing soft.  I think when you get to the Playoffs it's a question of hit or be hit.  But at the same time, you have to be smart about it.  I think that a lot of teams run around and try to get their hits, but they put themselves out of position.  So body contact is great, but you also have to be very smart about it and I think the first game we were not smart about it and we weren't hitting. We weren't finishing our checks, we were turning away and we are not a good team when we circle and turn and don't finish our checks.  No team is.  
 

Q.  What do we know about Jason Arnott's availability for tomorrow?
 
COACH ROBINSON: You probably know as much as I do right now.  
 

Q.  Any plans for a medical examination, say, hospital examination or...
 
COACH ROBINSON: No, I think he has had all the examinations and tests that need to be done.  I think it is just a question of how he is going to feel tomorrow. 
 

Q.  You have been at this point many times in your career both as a player and as a coach.  How do you look at it  -- it is a whole different team, it is a different situation.  Is there a way to separate where you have been before and looking forward to Thursday's night's game?
 
COACH ROBINSON: I think we all -- we all are in this sport for the reason that is coming up on Thursday night to be in the position that we are going to be in.  But really you can't face it any differently than you face any other game.  I think that if you look at it as you know, a do-or-die situation then you are going to be at your best.  If you look at it as well, if we don't win this one, then we have got another one then, I think you really open yourself up to playing mediocre.  At the same time you can't put a lot of pressure on yourself.  We are playing a game that you are supposed to have fun at it, really only way you can have fun is by being successful at it.  All we can do is just prepare ourselves the same way we have prepared ourselves for the last four games and go out and give it our best. 
 

Q.  Could you talk a little bit about why you guys seem to be playing so well with a lead lately and how outsiders explain it as a neutral zone trap, but that's not really what the deal is anymore.....
 
COACH ROBINSON: Well we are not  -- if we are doing the neutral zone trap then so is Colorado because they are forechecking us the same way.  But I think the difference for us is that I think in the games that we weren't successful we didn't use our speed; we didn't use our size and we weren't physical and we did a lot of standing around.  When you are playing against a team like Colorado that has as much speed as they do and can move the puck as well as they can you are playing right into their hands if you are not getting on top of them and taking away their space.  So just a question of you know, we have been able to get a couple of breaks here and there and get the first goal and we really haven't looked upon trying to sit on a lead because I don't think you can sit on a lead against Colorado.  You just got to keep coming at them and keep going at them because they can explode and score on you at any time.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT