NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: DEVILS v AVALANCHE
June 4, 2001
Larry Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Larry, were you surprised at how well the team dominated the boards especially here at the Pepsi Center?
 
COACH ROBINSON:  Well, I don't know if we dominated the boards.  I think we played a lot smarter in here than we did the last time.  Certainly getting that early goal gave us a little bit of life.  But it is just  -- it was more a case that tonight we worked.  When we work, things happen for us.  If we don't work, they don't.  
 

Q.  You used a number of combinations in the first period tonight.  Was that by design or just by happenstance of the game?
 
COACH ROBINSON:  A little bit of both.  We had an idea of some of the combinations that we wanted to get out there against some of their people and we just tried to make those adjustments as we went along.  Unfortunately we screwed up a little bit on the too many men, but it was more a case of a guy starting to come off and then decided that they had moved the pucks up quick and went back just the same time as our other guy jumped, so those things happen. 
 

Q.  After Alex Mogilny had a couple of scoring chances the last game, what did it mean to see him get a goal tonight?
 
COACH ROBINSON:  Well, that's just  -- if we can get Alex and Gomez, everybody else picking up the slack for Arnott being out and we can spread our goals around a little bit, it is always a good thing.  But this game is over.  The  next one is the hardest one. 
 

Q.  When you are making changes the way you are making them, is it the players' responsibility to know to go to see when his guy is on?  Is it the assistant coach telling him to look for it?
 
COACH ROBINSON:  Both. 
 

Q.  How are you working it?
 
COACH ROBINSON:  Well, we knew ahead of time -- certain guys knew that they were going out if some of their people were on, so it's more the players, but it is through our advise who we wanted out there at certain times. 
 

Q.  It's like hands-on  --
 
COACH ROBINSON:  I am telling them. 
 

Q.  They have been without Forsberg for a while.  You missed Arnott tonight.  Can you compare Arnott's worth to your team versus Forsberg's worth to their team?
 
COACH ROBINSON:  There's no doubt when you have a player of that magnitude out, it just  -- at least you hope as a coach that everybody else elevates their game to make up for the loss of a great player.  Sometimes when things happen like that, it brings a team closer together and it sometimes brings out the best in other players because they are given opportunities that they may not get otherwise. 
 

Q.  What happened with McKenzie?  And when did you make the decision to dress, I guess, Sutton for  --
 
COACH ROBINSON:  Only because with Arnott out we needed somebody else to go out there and control  -- not control, but to be on the powerplay, without giving Scotty Stevens an extra workload.  So that was the main reason that we did it.  The other reason being that, you know, Sutton and White have played together as opposed to maybe taking White or somebody else out.  I wanted to keep pairings that knew each other.  But the decision was mostly because of Arnott not being in there. 
 

Q.  The circumstance is different because it's the championship round, but the Leafs had your team in the same position you now have Colorado and they weren't able to put you away on their home ice.  How important is it to take advantage of your crowd on Thursday night?
 
COACH ROBINSON:  Well, I mean it's all cliche, but the last one is always the hardest one to get.  I think for us the most important thing is to not look at the score, not look at the standings, not look at anything, but each shift that you go out there and play each shift like it is your last shift.  We can't doing crazy things because there is an explosive team.  They have got  -- they are very, very well coached defensively, offensively.  You know, we certainly have to cut down on our penalties that we are taking again and we have just got to keep chipping away and not looking anywhere past our next shift. 
 

Q.  As the Playoffs have unfolded, it seems that it always takes a defining moment for your team to bring its best effort.  Is that just something that you kind of throw your hands up and resign yourself to?  Is there something you can put your finger on?
 
COACH ROBINSON:  I wish I could put my finger on it.  It would save me sleepless nights and a lot of gray hair.  I think when you get to this point, there are so many variables involved:  Nerves and travelling and so many distractions.   You know, we go through the whole year and we don't get this much coverage, for some reason or other.  All of a sudden now, everyday, every paper, everywhere you go there are distractions around and different people handle it in different ways.  So I think it is more of a case when you get into the Playoffs it is new and it is something that over time maybe you get a little used to, but I have been around it for a few years, and even for me it is tough.  There is so much going on.  You really got to concentrate, really got to keep focused. 
 

Q.  Was this Brodeur's best game all things considered?  He made some really tough stops?
 
COACH ROBINSON:  Especially the one I think it was in the second period, was right near the end, made a huge stop.  He definitely was very, very focused tonight.  Every shot he was really square to the puck and was smothering his rebounds and handled the puck well.  The kind of goaltending that we have become accustomed to with Marty. 
 

Q.  How much of a difference will home ice make in Game 6?
 
COACH ROBINSON:  Who knows.  It hasn't really been a factor so far.  I think in a Final series, I think it has a bit factor in that you know if you get a goal you get a little momentum or if you need a little extra push the home team is always nice to have, they get you going.  After they scored their goal tonight, I mean this crowd went crazy and they buzzed us for the better part of 4, five minutes there.  So the crowd is definitely an emotional lift.  But how much, you know, the games are still won and lost on the ice.   
 

Q.  Hard to believe that you took two here and won in Carolina without Arnott?
 
COACH ROBINSON:  Is it  -- 
 

Q.  It is tough?
 
COACH ROBINSON:  Is it tough?  
 

Q.  Yes, is that tough to do?
 
COACH ROBINSON:  Well it is not tough because I have great faith in all of my members of my team.  I had faith that Kenny Sutton would be able to go in and do a good job tonight because we needed him as far as powerplay goes and you are taking out a guy that has been pretty powerful in us in Sean O'Donnell but sometimes you have to make little adjustments and you have to be able to suck it up sometimes for injuries.  Best example is this club next door to us, I mean they could have just folded the tent when Forsberg was out and say oh we don't have a chance.  But they all pulled together and I think it says a lot for their organization and for their team.  I think it says a lot for our organization and our team that we have people that are capable of going in when you have injuries.  That's part of hockey.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT