NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: DEVILS v AVALANCHE
June 4, 2001
Larry Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  With Arnott officially out, what are you going to do if he isn't in terms of lineup changes?

COACH ROBINSON: Nemchinov will go into Arnott's place and Jimmy McKenzie will probably end up going in.


Q.  That is the plan tonight?

COACH ROBINSON: As far as I know, yes.


Q.  You thought yesterday that he would probably be okay.  Can you talk about what has changed in the last 24 hours that necessitates Arnott missing the game tonight?

COACH ROBINSON: Well, it is more concerned with his health that's the biggest thing.  No game is that important that you risk your health.  That's the biggest thing.


Q.  After practice we saw you and the trainer and Jason sitting on the bench.  Can you just talk a little bit about what you guys were discussing?

COACH ROBINSON: I wasn't discussing anything.  I was listening.  They were just basically  -- Bill Murray was talking to Arnie about how he was feeling and going over, you know, what he thought and we want to make the right decision.  We certainly don't want a player out there that's not 100%.  Because in the Playoffs you can't afford to have someone start; put your team in jeopardy by starting and not be being able to finish it when you have got healthy bodies around.  That's basically what the gist of it was.


Q.  As far as the roster opening goes, is this Jim McKenzie or have you made that decision?

COACH ROBINSON: More than likely 90% it will be Jimmy. 


Q.  Are we talking about a medical term here, concussion, or is he just not quite ready to go for tonight's game?

COACH ROBINSON: As far as I know, and my medical background is not very good, but I think neurologically everything is fine, but right now it is just up to the individual, I guess.


Q.  The way that Sykora and Elias were able to finish up Game 4 after Arnott was lost, are you confident that they will be able to go into tonight's game and still come up with an effort despite  --

COACH ROBINSON: Oh, yeah.  We lost Arnie in the Carolina series as well and Chino went in, did a great job and those three guys know each other extremely well.  We are in the same situation a little bit like the Avs were in with Forsberg out   - everybody else  pulls a little harder that's all.


Q.  What does this do to the powerplay?

COACH ROBINSON: Well, we have other guys that have played there before.  Chino can also go in and play the powerplay.  We can move Turner in there.  There's a lot of different things we can do on the powerplay.  You just don't have that big shot of Arnott's but we are not getting that many shots away anyway.  They are pressuring us pretty good.  Just that will just be a minor adjustment. 


Q.  What does this do for your matchups?  Does it mean you will do your best to get Holik on Sakic?

COACH ROBINSON: Yeah, I don't think with or without Arnie I don't think it would have changed any of my thinking or any of my matchups.  Inevitably he is going to get the last change, so.....


Q.  Unrelated question.  Talk a little bit about the loyalty that exists between this organization and Ken Daneyko?

COACH ROBINSON: That's a good question for Lou.  I don't know about me.  Kenny has been here for a long time.  He has been a warrior for this organization and seems to play and save his best for big games and Playoff series.  He is done that for us again this year. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT