PLAYSTATION FIESTA BOWL: PENN STATE VS WASHINGTON
December 26, 2017
Matt Lubick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (Question about Penn State's defense.)
COACH LUBICK: Very disciplined.  I think they play really fast and run to the ball with tremendous energy.  I think that's an indicator of great coaching, because those guys know what they're doing, so they can play fast and they're very -- they're an attacking, not a reacting defense.
They're multiple in their coverages.  They have a bunch of different pressures they can bring at you.  A lot of times when teams are multiple like that, you'll see some ways to take advantage of maybe a big play here or two.  And that's the most impressive thing is they make you earn everything you get and they don't give up a lot of big plays.
Q. Did anybody jump out on tape?  I know a lot of times when coaches watch on tape it's different than watching a game on TV.  There may have been things that jump out at you, was there anything --
COACH LUBICK: That's the first thing we do as a staff is we look for, is there any personnel matchups here or there that we can take advantage of?  And that's a big challenge because they don't really have a weakness.
They've got -- they start 11 but they play a lot of different guys.  They've got 16, 17 good players that can all play at a high level.  And so for us it's going to be a big challenge.
Probably the most physical team we've seen up front.  Remind us of going against our defense, our guys, but they're very good in the back end, which is, again, going back to the fact they don't give up a lot of big plays.  And statistically they're one of the top defenses in the country, both against the run and the pass.
And we get all those statistics before we actually start watching tape.  When you watch the tape you can say, see, they're just very sound and well-coached.
Q. They rotate a ton of guys up front.  How much of a challenge is that for your O linemen to keep them kind of --
COACH LUBICK: They're strong and physical, and I think it's smart what they do because those guys are fresh and they play hard.  It's not like there's a big drop off when one guy comes out and another guy comes in.  It's a tribute to what they've done in the recruiting process, to build that type of depth.
Q. I cover Penn State.  For people who haven't seen a lot of your offense, what are your strengths?  And I'm not asking for a game plan.  When watching that, what should they expect?
COACH LUBICK: We like to be balanced.  We think we can run the ball as well as throw the ball.  And we think we've got a good quarterback that can make good decisions, and some playmakers that have proven they can make plays when the ball's in their hand.  And we try not to beat ourselves.
From whether it's a penalty standpoint or from a turnover standpoint, we don't want to have self-inflicted wounds and try to play sound football and play hard.
Q. I talked to Jake for a couple of minutes, seems like a real low key guy here.  Is that kind of what he brings to the field, too, kind of a balanced --
COACH LUBICK: Sure.  I think he's very composed, very cerebral.  He's a coach on the field.  He's a coach off the field.  His preparation in the game plan, starting with himself, is second to none.
But when he's on the field, he's a tremendous competitor.  And our guys look up to him because of the way he practices, because of the way he prepares and because of the results he's gotten.  But what you see is what you get.  He's very humble, but he's also very confident and he's able to blend those real well.
Q. Have you crossed paths with any of the Penn State coaching staff along the way?
COACH LUBICK: Not really.  I've always been a big fan of Coach Franklin's career, through Vanderbilt, what he did there, to taking Penn State to a new level.  I think any college football coach or fan looks at that and says wow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT