BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 4, 2017
Mike Carey
Teana Muldrow
Tynice Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
West Virginia - 82   
Oklahoma - 58   
THE MODERATOR: We are now joined by the West Virginia Mountaineers, Coach Mike Carey and his two student-athletes, Tynice Martin and Teana Muldrow.  Coach, congratulations and your thoughts on the game?   
MIKE CAREY: We come out ready to play.  I knew we was going to be ready to play.  Our shootaround today earlier was probably the best shootaround we had all year.  They were focused, a lot of energy.  In fact I had to cut it down because they were going too hard, so we just cut things down.  The other thing I thought was great is out of 33 field goals we had 20 assists and that means we were moving the ball and against their traps.  1-3-1 that's what you had to do, so I thought the players did a great job of doing that.   
 Q.  Mike, you really took control of this game early, didn't you, 26-10 in the first quarter, of course you didn't let off the gas at all, you have to be proud of your team that they never let up.  
MIKE CAREY: Oh, very proud.  That's something we've talked about all year.  We would get leads and then give up the leads and I thought second half we got in foul trouble again a little bit with Lanay, and I thought Des came in and did a good job.  I thought it was a total team effort and our players at every timeout up 30 I kept reminding them we've got to continue to play hard, play hard, play hard because they're going to dribble/drive us.   
 Q.  Coach Carey, you guys shot twenty 3s, 45% from 3, did you come into the game knowing you were going to shoot the ball well against Oklahoma?  
MIKE CAREY: We took what they gave us, them trapping and once we reversed the ball we had a lot of open looks.  You never know what's going to be open, maybe the drive open, high-low, or maybe they're not going to guard the three.  And they chose to sag on Lanay and Teana and we were able to hit some shots, which was big for us.   
 Q.  You were able to hold or the or the to two assists and she leads the Big 12 in assist-to-turnover ratio.  What did you do to make her uncomfortable throughout the game?  
MIKE CAREY: They have a bunch of good shooters.  Oklahoma has a really good team.  They just didn't play well, so let's give them credit.  And we played pretty well.  We've had those days, too.  The shoe was on the other foot, so I totally understand that.  I hope they do great in the NCAA Tournament because they're a lock for the NCAA Tournament.  Give these two credit.  They're going to try to take Tynice Martin out of the game, but she still got a lot of good looks and the players rotated the ball and when Teana plays well we play well as a team, because she can hit the three.  She can guard a 5.  She can guard a guard, and she is that versatile where we can use her unanimous different positions, so it's important that she stays out of foul trouble for us.   
 Q.  Tynice, do you love playing against Oklahoma?  You must.  You've scored like 700 points against them.  Tonight you had 21, but what is it about you and Oklahoma and your match-ups there that seems to favor you?  
TYNICE MARTIN: I don't know.  We started on defense today and we just kept it going.  We kept our foot on the pedal and that's pretty much it.  I didn't know that I was going to shoot well tonight.  I didn't know how I was going to play, but I kept my energy high along with the team and, you know, we played well.   
THE MODERATOR: We'll see you tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT