SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 11, 2019
Andrew Putnam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Really sensational day when you cleared all the up and downs as well as those birdies.  You have to be very, very happy.  
ANDREW PUTNAM: Yeah, it was an up and down day.  Didn't have my A-game with hitting the ball, but hit a lot of good shots and managed to have another great score.   
 Q.  At 18 that was not an easy play.  You made it look awfully easy from over there beyond the bunker; threw it up there about three feet.  
ANDREW PUTNAM: Yeah.  Gets tricky in that grass.  That bermuda grass sits kind of weird and sometimes you just don't know how it's going to come out; came out perfect on that shot.   
 Q.  We talked about your putting yesterday.  You've had 286 feet of putts in the first two rounds; you're No. 1 in strokes gained putting.  You were No. 2 last week.  Did you work on the putting when you were off?  What's the story there?  
ANDREW PUTNAM: Honestly, I didn't hardly practice this off-season.  I got my tonsils taken out so I was resting up for a while.   
But I've always been a great putter.  That's been one of my strengths.  Obviously seeing the lines great this week.   
 Q.  Yeah, you really are.  Talk about tomorrow.  Playing in the last group with Matt.  You have to be excited about that.  
ANDREW PUTNAM: Yeah, it's going to be a lot of fun.  Never played with Matt, but seems like a great guy.  Going to have a good time.   
 Q.  Are you confident having a win under your belt?  Again, the putter is so good.  Confidence must be really, really high.  
ANDREW PUTNAM: Yeah, confidence is up there.  Excited to be in this position.  You know, this is what we play for, so ready to go.   
 Q.  How much did your play last week -- you played pretty well lat week - how much is that kind of spurring this on?  
ANDREW PUTNAM: You know, it always helps to get a tournament under your belt coming here and not have it be the first event of the year; kind of assess where your game is.   
Yeah, it was definitely helpful.   
 Q.  How is your foot?  
ANDREW PUTNAM: Foot is doing better.  It's still a little bit swollen, but I'm able to walk on it.  Every thing is good.   
 Q.  Andrew, great day.  Just get some comments on your round.  
ANDREW PUTNAM: Yeah, it was another great day.  Course is playing tough, fast, and firm.  Just happy to have a pretty clean scorecard and have another great round.   
 Q.  You were able to get a few birdies today.  Had the long one on 7.  Is that carryover from yesterday?  
ANDREW PUTNAM: Yeah, that one was.  That was reminiscent of yesterday.  That was just kind of a bonus putt that went in.  Probably didn't putt quite as good today, but still putted pretty well.   
 Q.  Along with those, how big were some of par saves, like on No. 6 and over here on 18?  
ANDREW PUTNAM: Obviously nice to have those go in.  It's not make or break at this point in the tournament, but great to not be too many strokes back of Matt.   
 Q.  Was it nice to just keep the momentum going?  
ANDREW PUTNAM: Yeah, I think it helps.  Whenever you see putts drops gives you a little bit more confidence for the next hole.   
 Q.  And No. 8 when you're amongst the trees and you were able to save par there.  
ANDREW PUTNAM: Yeah, you know, I hit it left there yesterday.  I was just trying to not go left because it's dead.  It was an okay place to be and hit a great shot.   
 Q.  Anything different in your routine or anything?  
ANDREW PUTNAM: Just doing my same thing and not trying to change much.   
 Q.  Consistency?  
ANDREW PUTNAM: Consistency, yeah.   
 Q.  Which foot is it?  
ANDREW PUTNAM: My right foot.   
 Q.  Where exactly?  
ANDREW PUTNAM: My second toe on my right foot.   
 Q.  Feeling better today?  
ANDREW PUTNAM: Yeah, it's feeling better.  We're good to go.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT