SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 3, 2015
Andrew Putnam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JOHN BUSH:   We'd like to welcome Andrew Putnam into the interview room, our 36-hole leader here at the Shell Houston Open after a 7-under par, 65 today.   Andrew, 1-under on the front-9, but then you really got it turned on there on the back.   If we could get some comments.
ANDREW PUTNAM:   Yeah.   I kind of had a slow start and just 1-under on the front and then the putter starting rolling and the ball started going in the hole.   I don't know what my strokes were on the backside, but must have beep pretty good with the putting.

Q.   Talk about your season up to this point.
ANDREW PUTNAM:   It's been a slow start.   I played pretty good last year on the Web.com, and I did have some success early on my first couple PGA events.   It's been a little bit of a struggle recently.   Been working hard to get back and working on my swing, and the putter is usually there so just trying to get the ball on that green as fast as I can.
JOHN BUSH:   Questions.

Q.   You're playing a lot better this year at the Shell Houston Open than you did last year.
ANDREW PUTNAM:   Yeah.   Last year it was actually my first PGA TOUR event as a pro, Monday qualified in between some Web.com events.   That was fun.

Q.   Andrew, when you hear yourself introduced as the 36-hole leader, what ran through your mind?
ANDREW PUTNAM:   You know, actually I actually had a share of the lead Las Vegas in the fall, so I guess I have been here but not quite the same.   Solo leads, that's pretty cool.
JOHN BUSH:   Next question.

Q.   Last year was your first PGA TOUR tournament was here.   What's different that -- are you just playing that much better?   You're scoring so much better than last year, what's the difference?
ANDREW PUTNAM:   Well, experience is huge.   I mean, two years on the Web.com Tour made a big difference, and, you know, just about getting comfortable out here, playing with some better players and bigger names and bigger crowds.   Yeah, it's all about getting a good comfort level.

Q.   Did you know you were tied for the lead going into the last hole, the par-3, 9.   If you did, what were your thoughts about attacking that hole?   Tell me how you played that hole.
ANDREW PUTNAM:   Kind of a tougher par-3.   It's a little bit longer.   Didn't play as tough as some of the guys might have played it earlier in the morning because the wind kind of died down.   But I saw the scoreboard on No. 7, the par-3, and saw my name up there, and I hit it to like 15 feet on No. 9.   I figured might as well make it.

Q.   What club did you hit?
ANDREW PUTNAM:   4-iron.

Q.   Andrew, Phil told us a few minutes ago that with his slow start this year and everything, even with that, that he felt at least recently that he had been playing pretty good.   He hadn't been scoring good.   Take that comment.   Does that in any way reflect what's been happening with you?
ANDREW PUTNAM:   I haven't been playing good or scoring well (laughter).   Both have been bad.   Doing both well this week.

Q.   Any particular part of the game that --
ANDREW PUTNAM:   Haven't been hitting the ball very good.   Putter has been pretty good normally.   So I was just kind of getting it in play.

Q.   Hitting it better this week?
ANDREW PUTNAM:   Yeah, hitting it a little bit better.   This course is a little bit more open.   Not a lot of rough.   You can kind of hit it off line and get away with it.

Q.   What did you find?
ANDREW PUTNAM:   I mean, just the putter was rolling pretty good.   I was just keeping it in play.   I wasn't hitting it, you know, amazing.   I wasn't hitting it my best.   Just hitting good shots at the right time.   There are some intimidating tee shots.   I gave myself a lot of chances and started seeing the line pretty good.
JOHN BUSH:   Anything else?

Q.   Is this a real mental thing for you tomorrow with the situation you're in and everything, trying to think about it but not think about it, et cetera?
ANDREW PUTNAM:   Yeah.   Golf is always a mental battle no matter where you're at.   It will be interesting challenge.   Haven't been there before, so we'll see what it brings.

Q.   What was it about the back-9?   You just get aggressive, you started feeling better about the whole thing?
ANDREW PUTNAM:   Not really.   I hit some good shots.   I put it in a lot of good spots.   I made a couple birdies with the wedge.   I hit my wedges in pretty close and made probably three 20-footers.   That kind of does it.
JOHN BUSH:   Anything else?   All right.   Andrew, best of luck tomorrow.
ANDREW PUTNAM:   Thanks, guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT