SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 17, 2014
Andrew Putnam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   Rock solid two days, just getting your feet wet on the PGA TOUR. 
ANDREW PUTNAM:   Yeah, I had a good day today, pretty sweet round.   I had a bogey early on, but ever since then I felt pretty good.

Q.   Talk about the last hole here, pretty interesting.   You were able to attack that hole location. 
ANDREW PUTNAM:   Yeah, driver off the tee is almost a little too much club, almost hit it in that water on the left side, so we decided we kind of had to stay to the right.   But I had a perfect number and (inaudible).

Q.   Wouldn't it be nice for your brother to say, hey, I'm Andrew's brother?
ANDREW PUTNAM:   Yeah, I don't know that that's going to happen any time soon, but it sure is fun having my brother out here.   We played the Web.com TOUR two years ago together, and then I got out here with him, so it's been fun traveling with him. 
He's helped me a lot at the start of my career, and he's been great. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
ANDREW PUTNAM:   It was a good round.   I started off slow, one bogey, but played good out there.   I played the par‑5s well today, was able to take advantage of those.

Q.   Your brother Michael is out here; what kind of advice have you taken from him and how much has he offered?
ANDREW PUTNAM:   I took a lot of advice from him.   On the Web.com, we played together out there, and golf is golf at every stage, but it's fun to have family out and be able to travel with them. 

Q.   You guys are so close.   Has it been beneficial pushing each other to where you want to be?
ANDREW PUTNAM:   I think so, yeah.   I think I was the one that pushed him two years ago on the Web.   He actually won the Money List that year, and then, yeah, I was trying to get out here to join him.   I missed hanging out with the kids and with him and the whole family.   It's going to be a fun year out here. 

Q.   At least you're going to be in the conversation, on the first page of that leaderboard heading into the weekend.   How do you manage the emotions? 
ANDREW PUTNAM:   There's going to be a lot of emotions, first time being‑‑ second PGA TOUR tournament as a member.   I feel like the Web.com helped me learn a lot how to deal with those emotions, and just go out there and have fun.

Q.   Talk about playing in pressure situations. 
ANDREW PUTNAM:   Honestly I feel like looking back, even a week after that happened, it was obviously disappointing, one round away from having my PGA TOUR card.   But I wasn't comfortable in that situation and I felt like my swing was a little loose, so it was good to have one more year on the Web.com.   I was able to tighten up my swing a little bit, work with my swing coach, and improved a lot from last year to this year.

Q.   Who did you start working with?
ANDREW PUTNAM:   A guy named Mark Blackburn.   He works with Kevin Chappell and a couple other guys. 

Q.   What's gone well these first two rounds?
ANDREW PUTNAM:   I started to hit it better.   I haven't hit it like I did the beginning of the Web.com season.   I wasn't driving it that well for a few months.   Been working on getting the ball to stay on the right line and tightening it up a little bit more, trying to move the ball both ways, getting a little tighter off the tee. 

Q.   It was a quick turnaround from the Web.com TOUR championship.   Does it make it a little bit easier‑‑
ANDREW PUTNAM:   I've felt like the last two days I was on a different Tour.   We were finishing in the dark, spike marks everywhere.   You're playing with the guys on the Web.com TOUR (inaudible) you're still on the Web.com, but yeah, the weekend is going to be a little bit better. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT