SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 13, 2019
Andrew Putnam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Andrew, I can see the disappointment in your face.  Can you just kind of describe your emotion right now.  
ANDREW PUTNAM: Yeah, fought hard for a lot of the round.  Did my best; just didn't work out for me towards the end.   
 Q.  Talk to me abut those closing holes, trying to make something happen.  
ANDREW PUTNAM: Yeah.  Trying to make birdies.  Just had the ball draw a little too much out of the rough on me and go in the bunker.  Made that bogey and just didn't execute on my last couple holes.  A little disappointed.   
 Q.  Overall good experience for you though, wasn't it?  
ANDREW PUTNAM: Yeah, good experience.  Kuch obviously played great.  Really did what he had.   
 Q.  So second for Andrew.  I want to go back to the opening nine.  You grabbed the lead.  From that point on, what are you thinking through your game and through your mind?  
ANDREW PUTNAM: Yeah, I was feeling great.  Hit some great shots and felt like the momentum was swinging towards my way.   
Yeah, I was looking forward to that back nine.  Unfortunately didn't work out for me.  Kuch played great coming down the stretch.  Made the putts he had to.  Congrats to him.   
 Q.  As you analyze and look back on this day, can you pinpoint what was going on on the back nine for you?  
ANDREW PUTNAM: Yeah, I just didn't execute on some of the shots I was hitting.  Hit it in the rough on one those holes is a tough place to be.   
Just didn't make the putts I needed to and Kuch made three, four birdies coming down the stretch.  I just couldn't keep up.   
 Q.  You had your tonsils removed latter part of last year.  Didn't get a chance to prepare for these last two weeks.  Bee sting this week; didn't play a practice round.  As you look back, tied for 14th on Maui and second place finish here, you take away what from the Hawaiian Islands?  
ANDREW PUTNAM: Yeah, it's been a great couple weeks.  This is going to be one of my last tournaments my wife will be traveling to before we have a baby, so cool way to end that.   
My goal is to get top 50 in the world.  This is another step in that direction.  Yeah, overall great couple weeks here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT