NBA DRAFT
June 24, 2010
Greg Monroe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  No. 7 Selection, Detroit Pistons

 GREG MONROE: I'm very grateful and it's been a long time coming and very excited, Pistons is a great organization and I just come in and try to do what I can to help this team out. 

 Q. A lot of young talent in Detroit. Talk about what you bring to the table with your versatility?
 GREG MONROE: More talent, versatility, big man that can come in, rebound, score, make plays for his teammates. 

 Q. Inaudible. 
 GREG MONROE: You know, you have to make a lot of reads and you have to play the game of basketball a lot. I think that's probably the biggest part of the offense that's helped me prepare for the NBA.

 Q. Detroit loves hard work, they rally around guys that work hard. For years they have been known for their defense. Are you going to be a guy that can bring that back? 
 GREG MONROE: Definitely. I'm going to come in and, like I said, just do everything I can, defensively, working hard, high intensity, play hard, so definitely think I can help with that. 

 Q. You're going to a team with a lot of UCONN players and you're wearing your Georgetown colors; looking forward to the next time the two teams play?
 GREG MONROE: Yeah, I won't be outnumbered by that much. 

 Q. Have you talked to DeJuan Summers? 
 GREG MONROE: No, I talked to him recently and the last couple of months but he just texted me, told me, "welcome," and I will talk to him more obviously. 

 Q. Have you spoke with Roy Hibbert about life in the league and also continuing your education at Georgetown?
 GREG MONROE: Definitely, Roy was back on campus and I got a chance to work out with him for a few weeks and talked to him a lot. Every time I started at Indiana and went out to eat dinner or something like that, he was helping me a lot.

 Q. Georgetown is a fine school, with a very good academic programs; is there a game plan to finish up your studies over there?
 GREG MONROE: Definitely, going to try to get as many credits as I can. 

 Q. Can you just talk about the adjustment from the Georgetown/Princeton system to the pro-style system?
 GREG MONROE: It will be a big adjustment and something I was used to for the past two years but transitioning to a pro-style offense, I'll do fine learning, work hard, study a lot and I think transition will be pretty easy. 

 Q. Can you talk about your interview and what they liked, and did they have any concerns or questions? 
 GREG MONROE: Basically just getting to know me, they were asking me about Princeton and my family and the things they liked about me and of course the concerns defensively and my athleticism like everything but they liked me enough to take me and I wanted to come in and work hard and make the pick worthwhile. 

 Q. When did you get a sense that this would be the range you would be going in? 
 GREG MONROE: All along this has been the range. My name has been bumped around and this is right in the middle, so this is the range that I expected. 

 Q. Inaudible. 
 GREG MONROE: Coach has been great. He's really supported me ever since I made my decision and he's been there to give me advice. He talked to all of the teams. He's been, you know, converting the stuff that they said back to me and he was in the gym with me just like all of the other coaches working me out and helping me prepare. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT