BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 13, 2010
Greg Monroe
John Thompson III
Chris Wright
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 West Virginia -60
  Georgetown - 58 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. John, what did you expect them to run on that last play as opposed to what you got?   
 COACH JOHN THOMPSON III: We expected them to put the ball into Butler's hands and let him make a play.   
  
  Q. What makes West Virginia so tough to box out especially on the offensive glass?   
 COACH JOHN THOMPSON III: They're just persistent. They have guys that go after it.   
  
  Q. I think you were 4 of 16 from three tonight. Do you think some of that might have been four games in four nights?   
 COACH JOHN THOMPSON III: No, I don't. I think if anything, you have to give credit to them and their ability to contest shots. We got some looks we normally make that didn't go in, long guys running at you.   
 But I don't think it was a question of fatigue.   
  
  Q. I have a question for Chris: Chris, why did you foul with 27 seconds to go in a tie game?   
 CHRIS WRIGHT: I made a mistake.   
  
  Q. Coach, you came into the tournament on a little bit of a downer. But it seems like everything flipped around for you in this tournament. How do you look at the way you're coming into the NCAAs?   
 COACH JOHN THOMPSON III: It's hard to analyze that right now just because I'm extremely disappointed. We got three guys up here with me that are extremely disappointed. We have a locker room back down the hall with a bunch of other guys that are disappointed.   
 You know, that being said, I don't think -- you said we came into this tournament on downer. I don't think this group has ever lost confidence in what we're doing, lost confidence in each other. And that's still true right now. You know, I said this prior to tonight's game, I said this after last night's game, we're playing well. I like where we are going into the NCAA Tournament, and I probably can still say that. We did some things tonight we have to do better, obviously.   
 But I like the way this group -- I like where this group is right now heading into the tournament.   
  
  Q. Can you just elaborate a bit on what you like them to do better going forward?   
 COACH JOHN THOMPSON III: Not right now. I'm not sure.   
  
  Q. Coach, do the four days like this have any lingering effects for next Thursday or Friday, or does it play any role?   
 COACH JOHN THOMPSON III: I don't know. I think that you look at the previous three games, this group -- we said it before, we know that we can play with anyone. But that's not necessarily -- we didn't learn that coming out of this tournament; we knew that.   
 Lingering effects, I'm not sure. Get over this quickly and move on. This is not the time. It's March. And we are extremely disappointed, but this too shall pass. We need to move on and get ready for next week. That's hard to say 15 minutes after the fact. It's hard to -- I'm not at that point yet, neither is this group. We will get there and tomorrow find out where we go and who we play. Whenever we are scheduled to play, we're going to be there and we're going to be ready to roll.   
  
  Q. In terms of going up against their front court, what's most challenging in their scheme out there?   
 GREG MONROE: They were denying really hard and making it very difficult for me to get the ball in the post. They were sending two. I mean, they were sending extra help from both sides, from the top side and from the baseline. So they kind of made it real hard for me to score and get the ball.   
  
  Q. Chris, was there ever any thought to pull up for a jumper? When you got the ball did you think I'm going to get the basket on that last play there?   
 CHRIS WRIGHT: No. I was thinking of getting to the basket. Trying to finish, try to get a lay-up. I had time on the clock. I wasn't thinking of pulling up or anything. Just get over to the basket and get it to overtime.   
 THE MODERATOR: Georgetown, thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT