THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 3, 2019
Feliciano Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. KHACHANOV/F. Lopez   
4-6, 6-4, 7-5, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How do you reflect on that match?  
FELICIANO LOPEZ: I think that match was under control after winning the first set.  Had a few chances, you know, beginning of the second set, two times 15-40 on his serve.  Didn't make it.  Then I got broken two, three times today just when I don't have to get broken by the end of the set at 5-4.   
Then to finish the match also after, you know, making that break, playing great, saving match points at the last game, and then I don't know.  I didn't serve well enough, I think, at those moments.  Because I got broken two, three times at the end of the sets, and it's not very useful when I play.   
You know, I think that was the most important thing today, to get broken there.  I mean, it was unexpected for me.  I was one set up, playing good.  I thought I going to get another break, another early break in the second set.  Didn't make it.  Then at the end of the set I got broken.  And then he started playing a little bit better and better.   
But still, the match was very equal.  It's not that he was getting better and better and I was not playing good enough to keep the match, you know, there.  But, I don't know, somehow I got broken at those moments, as I said before.   
 Q.  And it was a mammoth final game.  Can you talk us through that?  
FELICIANO LOPEZ: Again, again, four times I think I was serving to go 5-All and I didn't make it.  I was trying to serve down the T, but some of the serves, some of the first serves, I miss them.  He came up with some great returns.  Miss a few volleys, also.  But I don't know.  It was a strange game.   
 Q.  If you can reflect on your grass court season, you'd be proud of it?  
FELICIANO LOPEZ: Yeah, of course I have to be proud of my grass season, of course.  Right now, after losing today, you know, the way I lost the match is not the right time maybe to reflect on that.   
But of course I'm very happy.  You know, I won a tournament that I didn't expect it.  So I have to be happy for that, of course.  Gives me a lot of confidence, you know, to play the rest of the season and probably next year, also.  I'm in top 50 again, which is great.  This is something to be happy.   
 Q.  You say you will play next year also.  Do you think next year will be your final year or...  
FELICIANO LOPEZ: It's one year at a time for the moment.  I don't want to look farther than that, to be honest.  I think right now at this stage of my career, the way I see things now, it's one year at a time.   
I will play next year because I think after winning Queen's I have to play.  I will enter the best tournaments in the world where I want to play, and of course I'm going to play one more year for the moment.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT