FEVER-TREE CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2019
Feliciano Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








F. LOPEZ/F. Auger-Aliassime
6-7, 6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Very long day.  How are you feeling?
FELICIANO LOPEZ: It's crazy.  I mean, if someone have told me this a week ago, I would say you're crazy, because it feels so great.  To be here again in the finals in both singles and doubles, it's tough to believe, no?
I feel I made a huge effort.  After the French Open, I still believe that I can do well in the grass.  I went to Surbiton and I want to Stuttgart to play the quallies, and I lost with two match points.  I was pretty disappointed when I finish that match against Lucas Pouille.
But I thought that somehow things are going to go well on the grass, and this week has been fantastic from the very beginning.  I was a little bit lucky that Delpo, unfortunately he was injured and we couldn't play that match, but you always need a little bit of luck, no, in order to perform that well.
Q. Have you ever had a week quite like this from start to finish?
FELICIANO LOPEZ: Not really.  When I won here in 2017, but in doubles I didn't go very, like, farther in the draw, like this year.  It's been really special.  I mean, I'm in the finals here, 37 years old.  What else can I say?  I play with Andy for the first time.  He's come back in the UK and we are in the finals, also.
Q. How difficult was it to focus over such a long period of time this afternoon?  And physically, as well?
FELICIANO LOPEZ: I think the first hour after my singles I still had, you know, the energy from the singles match that I won, and I was so happy.  So I put this energy into the beginning of the doubles match.  Well, the match that we couldn't finish yesterday and the first set of the semis after.
But after one hour, I start to feel a little bit more tired, obviously, because I played a lot and it's late, you know, and it's getting cold so my body is a little bit more sore.
But, you know, at the end we managed to won this crazy tiebreak and we are in the finals, and I'm so, so happy.
Q. Was it good for you to kind of keep the matches rolling on?  Would it have been more of a problem if you would have stopped and come back after an hour's rest?
FELICIANO LOPEZ: Of course, of course.  But also the fact that I finished the singles around 6:30, 7:00, so we don't have much time to finish.  We had two matches to play, the one from yesterday and the semis in case that we are winning the first match.  So this is the way we had to do it, because there is not much light (smiling).
Q. Looking back on your career, have you had so many matches in such a short space of time?
FELICIANO LOPEZ: Not really.  Last five years I was playing singles and doubles, not every week but Masters Series, and Slams.
But to have matches like today, for example, back to back with a match to finish from yesterday, this doesn't happen, you know, quite often.  So, yeah, it's a great effort.  I'm so happy that my body was still competitive and I was physically strong enough to play against Felix, and then to come back immediately after the singles to play the doubles with Andy.
Q. Has Andy shown you enough this week that he could potentially go and win Wimbledon as well as maybe Queen's this week?
FELICIANO LOPEZ: What Andy showed me that he basically he's a great champion.  I mean, he went through two surgeries.  He's here playing again.  I mean, what can I say?  He's a great champion, a great friend.
Yeah, I'm learning a lot of things from him, no?  He's so competitive.  He loves winning.  He does everything he can in order to perform well.  I mean, it's so nice for me to play with Andy this week, and, you know, maybe we can play another tournament in the future.  Who knows?
But for the moment we are in the finals and we are really looking forward to play tomorrow here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT