FEVER-TREE CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2019
Feliciano Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








F. LOPEZ/M. Fucsovics
6-7, 6-3, 6-4
FELICIANO LOPEZ: Guys, before I start with the press conference and with any questions related to the match, I want to read something for you.  It's very simple.  I'm going to start reading it.
Following reports in media that mentioned my name and my partner, Marc Lopez, I feel it is still important to come to you and absolutely deny any link with events described in relation to the allegations of match fixing.
Unfortunately, all tennis players are public figures and exposed to having our good name used beyond our control.  For that reason, I will do everything within my power to defend myself against any such false accusations.
Marc and I had immediately contacted the TIU to fully cooperate, and they confirmed that there had been no investigation about that match at Wimbledon 2017.  We have full faith in the TIU and the role they play protecting our sport.
I have always believed in the values of fair play.  It has been the case during my long career and I stand for the integrity of the game, which is so important.  I am now focused on giving my best, as always, and play with 100% focus at Queen's.
For now, these are the only comments I wish to make on the matter.  Thank you.  That's all.
THE MODERATOR: Questions?
Q. Could we ask you one question about it?  Were you shocked to learn of it yesterday?
FELICIANO LOPEZ: What was the question?  Sorry?
Q. Were you shocked to learn of that story yesterday?
FELICIANO LOPEZ: Yeah, of course.  I found it on Internet (smiling).  So this is the way I found it.
Q. One important question:  Do you know Raul Bravo?  Do you know Carlos Aranda?  Have you ever met them or spoken to them, contacted them?  Do you know these individuals in question?
FELICIANO LOPEZ: No, I didn't.
THE MODERATOR: If you could please respect his wishes.
Q. Without commenting on it, how has it affected your preparation for the game today and also for tomorrow's doubles?
FELICIANO LOPEZ: Well, of course it's not easy, no, when you find yourself in an article saying that you might be a match fixer.  But, you know, I believe that I didn't do anything wrong, no?
Of course it's not easy.  I have to deal with a lot of tweets regarding the issue, but I was just trying to just focus on the match today.  It was difficult for me to play, and I'm very happy that I went through a difficult situation when I was a set and a break down and I made it.
So I'm very happy, even more happy, because under the circumstances, it was not easy for me to come back.
Q. Has Andy been kind of supportive, or have you talked to him about this?
FELICIANO LOPEZ: No, he didn't say anything.  I mean, this thing can happen to every one of us.  That's the problem that we have.
He didn't mention.  So he's happy to play with me this week.  I think we can play great, and he's been training normal.  I think he's ready to play tomorrow.
Q. You have been playing a long time and your career has been long.  Have you ever been approached by anyone to lose a match or anything like that?
FELICIANO LOPEZ: No, not really.  But a long time ago, I think it was British tabloid or someone, they came out with a story about the match of Nieminen and me.  That was probably 15 or 16 years ago.
I saw the article.  I went to my lawyers.  They had to publish another article saying that I was not involved in any match fixing at that time.
That was a match that I retired after losing the first set in Long Island.  That was probably 15 or 16 years ago.  Long time, long time ago.  It's the same thing.  These gamblers, they know, they have information that you maybe are not 100% or that you have an issue, an injury, whatever, and they put a lot of money on your name.  That's an issue that we have to solve.
Q. Can you just remind us, two years ago, why you retired against Mannarino?  What was the injury again?
FELICIANO LOPEZ: I injured my foot.  That  doubles that year, I won Queen's, I lose the final in Stuttgart the week before Queen's.  I won here.  I was playing against Mannarino and I injured my foot, and I had to retire in that match.
And then we tried to play doubles.  We tried to do our best, and we ended up losing the match.  That's all.
THE MODERATOR: Questions about Queen's, the tournament, doubles?
Q. Obviously there is quite a lot of tension around this match tomorrow because it's Andy's first match back.  Have you been around long enough that for you it's just another doubles match, or do you kind of have more of a sense of excitement about it?
FELICIANO LOPEZ: I'm so excited about playing with Andy.  Since we agreed to play, I told everybody that it's a very exciting moment for me.  I mean, Andy is one of the best players in the history of tennis, and I'm very lucky to be playing this week with him, even more at this special tournament.  I won here.  This is a very special place for me.  We are in the UK.
So it's a very exciting moment, and I don't want this thing to overshadow, you know, this doubles match.  This is the most important thing that I played today, I won my match, I'm going to play tomorrow against Del Potro, one of the best players in the game, and also the doubles with Andy.  It's so exciting for me.  Yeah.
Q. Given how much time you have had to work with Andy, realistically, what are your expectations of how far you can go into the tournament?
FELICIANO LOPEZ: It's tough to say.  I think Andy is a great doubles player.  He hasn't played much doubles, but when he played he did very well.  Obviously I don't know how is he gonna feel.  When we train together, he seems to be okay.  His hip is pain-free.
He's feeling great, confident.  But you never know.  He hasn't played for five or six months.  He went through a surgery.  It's tough to say, you know.
We don't have any expectations, because we can have expectations to be realistic.  I mean, it's going to be his first match, and we haven't played together.  It's the first match also that we are gonna play together.
But besides that, I think it's a very exciting moment.  I think we can play good.  Grass is a good surface.  It fits with our games.  So we will see.
Q. Can you just clarify, is this partnership just for this week or have you spoken about future weeks, as well?
FELICIANO LOPEZ: Well, for the moment, we commit to play this week and then we will see.  If everything goes well, we might play another week, but for the moment, the commitment is just for Queen's.
Q. For Wimbledon, for you, is that difficult because of singles, et cetera?
FELICIANO LOPEZ: Yeah.  I don't know, but for the moment, we have the commitment to play here, and then we will see how it goes.  Then I will be more than happy to play with Andy any other week after Queen's, of course.
Q. I think he's teamed up with Melo next week.  Is that because you're expecting to play quallies or something?
FELICIANO LOPEZ: Where?
Q. Eastbourne.
FELICIANO LOPEZ: Eastbourne?  Yeah.  Yeah, always depending on my results here at Queen's, but I'm planning to play Eastbourne, yes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT