AEGON CHAMPIONSHIP
June 24, 2017
Feliciano Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
F. LOPEZ/G. Dimitrov   
7-5, 3-6, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You must feel very comfortable.  Conditions today were very different.  Can you elaborate on what was different for you?  
FELICIANO LOPEZ: Not really.  Only the fact we have this break because of the rain.  It is true that during the week the weather was perfect, it was sunny and the court was dry, but today the court was still dry, no?  Even after the little rain that came, the court was perfect, no?   
Conditions were windy a little bit.  That's it.  The rest was very similar.   
 Q.  You had 46 aces coming into today, and Grigor stepped up his return game in the second and third set.  You had four aces.  How did that put pressure on the rest of your game?  
FELICIANO LOPEZ: I think the third set I played probably the best set of the week, to be honest, on my serve and also on the return.  I was moving well, I was very aggressive, I had so many chances to make the break from the very beginning of the third set.   
And after the rain, I came on the court, I got the break.  Lost the set, but third set was perfect from my side.  I was aggressive enough with my serve, and then I put so many balls in, and I think he was feeling the pressure, no?  I had so many chances.  Finally I got the break, 4-2, and then the last one also to win the set.   
 Q.  Did the rain suspension change something tactically for you, or you just went with the same plan?  
FELICIANO LOPEZ: Not really.  I was one set up and nearly a break.  I didn't convert the chances on the beginning of second set before the rain came.  And then I was -- you know, it was a quick break, only half an hour.  I went back on the court.  I was just trying to hold my serve, to be aggressive, and, you know, it's about one or two points.  Sometimes that make the difference in that surface.   
So I was really focused, trying to put so many balls in when I was returning, and that was I think I have to do tomorrow, as well.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts on playing Marin?  I believe you played him twice here previously.  
FELICIANO LOPEZ: Yeah, I played him many times.  I played him here last year.  Had a match point.  I lost in the end.  Yeah, he's been playing unbelievable.   
Today beat Muller, one of the best players on grass.  Pretty impressive effort.  I think Marin is also a great grass court player.  He plays good everywhere, but on grass he's especially good.   
I have to keep it up with my, you know, level, with the way I'm playing, and wait for my chances, you know.   
Marin, he does everything well.  He has a great serve.  He moves well for his height.  He returns pretty good.  So it's a very tough match, I think.  I have to play my best tennis if I want to win tomorrow.   
 Q.  How important was experience today?  
FELICIANO LOPEZ: Experience is always important.  It's not only today.  And also the fact that I have been winning many matches lately.  I reach the finals in Stuttgart.  It was four matches won there.   
Here also reaching the semis.  I came on court today with a lot of confidence.  Right now it's all about, you know, confidence in tennis.  It's not 100%, but nearly 80 or 90% is on the mental part.  I think that's why just today I save a match point the way I save it, because when you are on the good mood and you're winning matches, everything goes normal to your side at the end.   
And this is what happened yesterday.  And today I came also on the court with a lot of confidence.  I lost the second set, but I still, you know, believed that if I keep playing as I was playing the whole week, I will have a chance to win the match.  This is what happened in the end.   
 Q.  You seemed quite emotional at the end after the match point.  Presumably this tournament means a heck of a lot to you.  
FELICIANO LOPEZ: Yeah.  You can imagine how important it is for me to be in the finals of Queen's at this stage of my career.  It is one of the tournaments that you, first of all, you love.  I was dreaming to play.  When I was younger I was watching Queen's all the time, and it's one of those tournaments that you always want to play.  For me, it's so special to be in the finals.  You can imagine, no?  It's a long way until I'm here.   
This year hasn't been great for me.  Started the year injury in Australia.  So it's a gift for me to be again in the finals, especially here.   
 Q.  Win or lose tomorrow, your confidence must be pretty high heading into Wimbledon.  It seems relatively open this year in terms of a lot of the big guys struggling and some really good grass court performances from yourself and Cilic.  Do you see any form of an upset there this year?  
FELICIANO LOPEZ: Well, considering the results of the best players in the world, it is true that it is probably the most open Wimbledon in the last ten years, I will say.   
Well, Roger is playing great.  He's not playing much, but when he's playing, he's winning (smiling).  Novak and Andy, it's true that they are not playing their best, I will say, and Rafa, he hasn't played on grass for a long time.  So it's probably a little bit more open.   
But, you know, anything can happen in tennis.  It's two weeks of tennis.  So many things, you know, that may affect the performance of the players.   
So we'll see how it goes, but it is true that it's very open this year.   
 Q.  For yourself?  This has been probably the ideal preparation for Wimbledon.  
FELICIANO LOPEZ: Yeah, of course.  I had some great years on grass.  I lost the finals here and won Eastbourne the week after few years ago.  Then lost fourth round of Wimbledon.  So that was my best year on grass compared -- well, not my best year because I reached the quarters at Wimbledon a few times.  But, yeah, there is no better preparation.  Yeah, it is true.   
Yeah, really looking forward to Wimbledon.  But first of all, I have to play a final tomorrow.   
 Q.  Would I be right in thinking, seeing something in your box, that you have been frequenting a restaurant that's been made quite famous in London by your compatriot, Mr. Nadal?  
FELICIANO LOPEZ: Yeah, it's true.  The restaurant, it's a great place.  I know this place and the owner from 20 years, since the first time I came to Wimbledon.  I met the guy.  He's a tennis freak, I would say.  He loves tennis.  And, yeah, we became very close.  I go almost every day for dinner at this place, and it's also a routine for me, no?  So I'm not going to break the routine tonight.   
 Q.  Is it you that recommended Rafa to go?  
FELICIANO LOPEZ: Yeah, because I'm a little bit older than Rafa (smiling).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT