ROLAND GARROS
June 4, 2016
Feliciano Lopez
Marc Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LOPEZ-LOPEZ/Bryan-Bryan
6-4, 6-7, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.
Q. Can you tell us about the match, your feelings about the match.  It seems to be surreal to a certain extent.
MARC LOPEZ: We have never experienced these moments.  I mean, winning a Grand Slam is something amazing, and I didn't have a Grand Slam victory on my résumé.
I didn't think that I could be in a position to win the French Open.  Roland Garros is my favorite tournament.  It has been the case for quite a long time.  When I was a kid I was watching the matches of great champions, the Spanish champions.
I'm delighted to have won this match with Feliciano Lopez.  I can't ask more?
Q. Feliciano, how do you rank this tournament in your career?
FELICIANO LOPEZ: There is no doubt that this is one of the most beautiful wins in my career.  For the past 18 months I have been playing the doubles, and at that time I didn't think that I would be in a position to win a Grand Slam so quickly.
It's quite unexpected.  It's a great reward, because I have made lots of efforts.  I think that our level was quite high.  This is what I told my partner.  And when you reach that level you can win matches.
We played two Grand Slam tournaments in our life.  The Bryan brothers are the best doubles team in the world, but we managed to win and that's great.
We haven't played quite a lot together, but when we played together, we played at a high level.  And when you can achieve that for many days, for many weeks, you can achieve great things.
Of course we were fortunate and of course we managed to win this Grand Slam tournament against the best doubles team in the world.
Q. In the second set, I mean, when you were about to lose the set, what did you think?
MARC LOPEZ: I didn't have time to think about it because we were pulling out all the stops to win the match.  But I was under stress, and we lost the second set.
Anyway, we have some experience.  We already lost some matches of this kind, so in the third set we thought about our losses but we were calm and composed.  Even though you are not convinced, you have to tell your partner, Forget about the match point that we had.
Inside I felt that we could have converted this match point.  You have to give it all in order to have no regrets.  I can tell you that the level was quite high, and we managed to break them.  Then they broke back and the court was slow.
The last game was one of the best games.  At 5-3, we were ahead and Feliciano helped me quite a lot with his serve.
So 5-3 on my serve I'm not quite sure we would have won the match.  So Feli played great at the end.  He delivered an ace on the match point.
Q. Are you in Wonderland?  Do you think that you've won against the best team in the world?
FELICIANO LOPEZ: We won the match against the best in the world.  If you analyze the match, I can tell you that we managed to win the match against their best doubles team.  You can't expect anything better than that.
We were dominating the game and we managed to notch up a good victory.  Of course we were fortunate.  It's always like that in the final.
This is my first final in a Grand Slam tournament, so I can tell you that this is unexpected.  This is something that I didn't envision.  I haven't played doubles for quite a long time, so as I told you, this is unexpected, especially against the Bryan brothers.  It's a great achievement.
Q. Do you have some different objectives?  You won the Masters, haven't you?
FELICIANO LOPEZ: I have never won in London.  Marc won in London the Masters tournament.  We have some small objectives, and maybe we can play the doubles at the end of the year.  These are gifts for me, when you help a friend win a major tournament.
Of course, I mean, for me it's important, but Marc is a doubles specialist, so winning a tournament in doubles, I mean, this is a great achievement.  We have been playing for the past five or six months, and I think that we will be even better.
Q. How are you going to celebrate this victory?
FELICIANO LOPEZ: I don't know.  I don't know.
MARC LOPEZ: I don't know.
FELICIANO LOPEZ: We don't have enough energy to celebrate.  We're going to take a shower and we will see.  We will make the most of this event and we will enjoy it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT