DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 25, 2016
Feliciano Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








F. LOPEZ/N. Djokovic
6-3, 0-0 (Retired)
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Your thoughts on the match.
FELICIANO LOPEZ: Strange.  It's very sad when you play against one of the best players in the history of the sport and he has to retire the way he did.
I didn't know.  I had no idea before the match that he was -- he told me he had an infection in the eyes since a few days already.
I had no idea and I just went on court just without knowing, you know, about his illness.  And, yeah, I felt that he was taking risks a little bit more than normal in some of the points that we played, especially when I made the break.  Then he was trying to be more aggressive.
Seems like he was not taking care of his shots sometimes.  He was very aggressive where he normally don't.
So that's why I kind of realized that something was going on.  But it's just an idea.  You don't know really what's happening.
Q. You both play wearing contact lenses, don't you?
FELICIANO LOPEZ: I did.  I do, sorry.
Q. Are the conditions dusty out there?
FELICIANO LOPEZ: Well, the wind, obviously dust affect when people that they wear lens, as we do.  Also the sun, for me, it's bothering sometimes.
But I don't know why.  You know, he just told me that he had an infection in the eye.  I don't know if it's because of the lens or I don't know.
Q. You have a good record here.  Do you now view this as a very good chance?
FELICIANO LOPEZ: It is.  But, yeah, tomorrow is another battle against Marcos.  He played unbelievable today against Roberto.  He won 6-Love the second set, and I can tell you that it's a difficult task to beat Roberto 6-Love because he's not giving anything.  He's a fighter.  He makes so many balls in.
So that means that Marcos is playing some of his best tennis.  So it's a good chance obviously.  I'm in the semis.  I want to play one match at a time, and I think Marcos is a great player.
If I play the way I have been playing this week, I will have my chances but it's a very close match.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT