U.S. OPEN
September 6, 2015
Feliciano Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








F. LOPEZ/F. Fognini
6-3, 7-6, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You were talking about kryptonite on Twitter.  Looks like you found it.
FELICIANO LOPEZ: The way they were playing, it was just amazing.  I was watching the match in my room.  I couldn't believe how good they were playing, especially Fabio, how many winners he was able to hit on that fifth set.
Yeah, I was thinking about him playing this way against me.  I was scared.
But obviously tennis is always different.  Every match is completely different.  My game is another game.  I think I played a great match here today, no?  I was very aggressive.  My serve was working.  Every time I come in, I find a way to win the point.  I was very quick also in the net.
So, yeah, I think I have to be very happy, because winning Fabio in straight sets after the way he was playing is such a great result.
Q. Why do you think you never reached the quarterfinals in any other major other than Wimbledon?
FELICIANO LOPEZ: Well, yeah, I think I reached the fourth round two, three times.  Once I think I lost to Roger, another one to Rafa, another one to Lleyton, if I'm not wrong.
So for me, for players like me, is not easy.  Once you reach the fourth round you have to beat the top 2, 3 guys in the world.  Is so difficult.  You have to play your best every day.
You see now, if Novak wins, I will have to beat No. 1 player in the world to reach the semis.
Besides Wimbledon, I think I played good.  Also in Aussie played quite good, but not good enough to reach the quarters.
Here this year I made it.  After the second match against Fish, which was kind of a weird match under the circumstances there with his retirement and everything, I was four points, you know, away.  He was serving for the match.  I was almost gone.  Then it gave me another chance.
Against Milos and today I think I played some of my best tennis.
Q. When you went down a break in the second set, were you afraid that what happened with Rafa was going to happen to you with Fabio coming back?
FELICIANO LOPEZ: I knew that I will get broken today because Fabio is one of the best returners in the game.  This is something I already knew.  I went on the court knowing I'm going to get broken, no?
On the other way, I know his serve is not his strongest weapon.  I will be able also to break him, no?  So when I got this break, I just accept it.  I said, Okay, let's try to do the same.  You have to still be aggressive and try your best.
I mean, there was nothing wrong for getting the break.
Q. If you have to play Novak, how do you prepare for a match like that?
FELICIANO LOPEZ: When Novak plays good, you don't know what to do to be honest.  He has no weaknesses in his game.
I just have to try my best, take the chances, enjoy this match in the biggest court in the world against the best player in the world.  This is what I have to do.
In order to win I think I just have to be very aggressive and I have to play even better than I did today and the day I beat Milos.
If I'm able to do it, which I don't know because the level is getting, you know, up and up every round I win.  So, yeah, it's a great opportunity and a great challenge, I think.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT