WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 20, 2015
Feliciano Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. LOPEZ/R. Nadal
  5‑7, 6‑4, 7‑6

Q. A fantastic victory, second in a row against Rafa. Tell me what it means to you. 
FELICIANO LOPEZ: Well, it means a lot when you beat such a good player like him. It's not a normal match, no? It's something different and the atmosphere there when you play against Rafa, it's always something special. 
I think I get my best, otherwise I wouldn't be able to beat him.

Q. And the way of winning in the third set tiebreak, how much confidence does that give you?
FELICIANO LOPEZ: A lot, a lot. Because, you know, when the matches gets to those moments, those players, they play their best normally. I needed to play even better, no? 
I did it and I made it. I'm so happy, because it makes me so proud to be able to play at that level in the third set tiebreak.

Q. I know you and Rafa are very close. How difficult is it, A, to play him, and B, is it a bittersweet to beat him?
FELICIANO LOPEZ: Well, it's sad now when you play against a friend. It's difficult to fight someone you really know, and to beat him it's even worse, especially now where he's not playing his best. 
I wish I could have beat him three years ago when he was No. 1 in the world. But tennis is like this. I mean, for me it was a great win, so I have to be happy.

Q. You say he's not at his best. You obviously know his game inside and out. How different is he to Rafa Nadal at his best?
FELICIANO LOPEZ: I think he's playing better, getting better and better. He played good today. I mean, I was playing really my best today. Doesn't matter the way he played because I was playing so good today. He was difficult to beat me today because I played my best, I will say.
And it's tough. It's tough to see him when you see someone that you know and he's, you know, suffering and struggling. It's tough. But I think right now he's okay and he's gonna reach the top again, I'm sure, because he's playing better and better. 
As soon as he wins some matches in a row, he will be there again, I'm sure.

Q. What you have done is you have deprived the world ‑‑it would have been the first Federer/Nadal match this year. It's going to be you possibly against Roger Federer. How do you feel ahead of that one?
FELICIANO LOPEZ: Well, another great match to play for me. When you're facing those matches it's special. I never beat Roger in my life. Hopefully I can play the same way I did today I can do it again tomorrow. If he wins, obviously. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT