AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 26, 2015
Feliciano Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  M. RAONIC/F. Lopez  6-4, 4-6, 6-3, 6-7, 6-3  An interview with:  FELICIANO LOPEZ   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  You came back from match points down a couple times earlier in the tournament.  When you saved those two match points, did you get a sense you could do it again?  FELICIANO LOPEZ: Yeah, of course.  When the match went to a fifth set, you always have a chance.  After winning the fourth set, the match was so close.  I think I made a great effort in that tiebreak when I was match point down, hitting couple good shots at that moment.  But the third set, silly break that I got, and it was over.  He not going to give me one break at that time.   Q.  Can you explain the double-faults by the pressure of playing against him and trying so hard to hold your serve?  FELICIANO LOPEZ: Well, sometimes when I go on that situations, I think that I have to be aggressive, no?  Maybe I went too much, hit a couple double-faults on that breakpoints today.  But so many other days it was working the way I did it.  And today it didn't work.  He also didn't give me anything.  I made the one break in the whole match.  So for me was difficult to hold serve all the time, knowing that he's going to win his serve pretty easy all the time.   Q.  You seemed to get on to his serve in the second part of the match.  You were returning better.  FELICIANO LOPEZ: I was guessing.  With those guys you have to guess most of the time.  Sometimes you get lucky that you can reach the ball and make a good contact on the ball.  Sometimes you know where the ball goes, but you cannot hit it, or you hit it with the frame because the ball comes so fast.  But I think the problem today was not returning his serve.  You have to accept that playing Milos, you're not going to put so many balls in, so...   Q.  How will you look back at this tournament?  FELICIANO LOPEZ: I have to be happy overall.  If I see the whole picture, obviously I have to be happy.  I was out in the first round more, even more out in the second round.  I took the opportunity to beat Janowicz playing much better.  Today I was much close.  I saved two match points again.  But he played better the fifth set.  I gave him this silly break and it was over.  Looking back, I have to be happy because I was already out in the first round and I managed somehow to be in the fourth round and managed to play a good match against Milos.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT