SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 10, 2014
Feliciano Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 F. LOPEZ/M. Youzhny
  5‑7, 6‑4, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   What is your feeling with this big win, making it through to the semifinals?  
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   Well, it's a great feeling to be in the semis of a Masters 1000.   This one is always great.   It means that I'm very confident.   Especially here, I always played some of my best tennis.   Is the third time that I going to be in the semis.   
So very pleased to be in Shanghai again and to be successful.   
   
 Q.   What was going through your mind when he broke back?   Double‑faults, but you managed to refocus quickly in the next game.   
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   So many things.   I was one game away of the victory.   I didn't expect that situation because the match was a set and a break down.   I came back somehow.   I didn't realize that I'm going to be, you know, one game away at some point.   
So I didn't want the ball back.   I wanted to finish the point very quick.   I have to be more patient on that moments I think.   I went very aggressive.   I made two double‑faults, which you cannot double‑fault twice serving for the match.   Obviously you're going to lose the game.   
The game after I made the break.   I break him back.   I was a little bit lucky.   I played two good points.   But it was kind of, you know, strange.   The match was up and down all the time.   Yeah, that was basically what I think about the match.   
   
 Q.   You play Gilles Simon in the semifinals.   Talk about him.   
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   Yeah, is a tough opponent.   Baseliner.   One of the best in the tour.   Very fast.   He anticipates very good.   He reads the game very good.   
I think it's going to be a very tough match for me.   I have to be very smart tomorrow, aggressive, but at the same time I have to be smart.   I have to do certain things that I think I have to do in order to win this match.   
He's very confident, as well.   He beat Tomas today.   He showed some great form during this week.   I think it's going to be very tough for me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT