AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 14, 2014
Feliciano Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. LOPEZ/R. Stepanek
  7‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You must be delighted with that performance. 
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   Yeah, I think we played both a great match today.   I mean, the quality of the tennis I played personally was amazing during almost the whole match consistently.
And I think he also played great.   It was a matter of few points that came to my side, especially in the tiebreak when I was 6‑3 up and then he came back.   Then winning the first set for me was very important.
Yeah, I have to be pleased and I have to be proud of the quality of the tennis I have been playing today.

Q.   There was a point in that tiebreak, wasn't there, that was particularly important?   It was quite a long rally. 
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   Well, it was 6‑5, and then he made this incredible point for 6‑All.   Then we switch sides, and then I played a great point after, and that point gave me the set point. 
Then I don't remember the last point of the set, but I think to win the first set was very, very important.

Q.   You must be pleased that after that you were, I suppose, able to just get on with it?
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   Yeah, yeah.   It's true.   It was 6‑3.   I had the set in my hand, and seems to be disappeared for the moment.
But then I was able to come back and to win the set.   I'm very happy.

Q.   You're playing Grigor next.   I think the only time you have played him was actually here a few years ago when he was still a teenager. 
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   Yeah.

Q.   How do you think his game has evolved since then?   Will you change the way you have to play him?   Do you remember that match?
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   I remember barely, but is true that we played here before.   Actually, I think is only time we met before. 
Obviously tomorrow is going to be so different.   He's a completely different player than he was when we played here a few years ago.
As he showed today, he's playing great.   He beat No. 3 or 4 in the world easy today.   He's going to be very confident tomorrow. 
If I want to win, I have to play like I did today:   very aggressive, consistent.   If I play like this, I will have my opportunities, I think.

Q.   How do you view your week so far?
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   How do I feel about the week? 

Q.   Yeah, just generally. 
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   Besides our loss yesterday against Holland, everything is great (smiling).
Tennis is working, and personally I'm happy.   The only black point of the week is the loss against Holland yesterday.

Q.   Maybe you'll make up for it tomorrow. 
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   Do we play tomorrow? 

Q.   No, you're playing tomorrow. 
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   Yeah. 

Q.   You'll make up for the loss. 
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   Yeah, I hope I can make up, but there is no makeup for a loss like this, I think.   (Laughter.)   It's too much. 

Q.   Whatever happens tomorrow, will you be pleased with the week generally in terms of looking ahead to Wimbledon?
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   Of course.   When you play such a week like this and playing so many matches on grass on the first week, it's very important to adjust to the conditions on grass because it's already one year without playing on that surface.
This is what makes grass very difficult in the beginning, such a long time without, you know, going on the carpets here on Queen's.
Yeah, I have to be very pleased.   I have one more week in Eastbourne where I have to defend the title from last year.   But if I have to see it from now, I have to say that this is a great preparation for Wimbledon, obviously.

Q.   Were you watching the match last night with other Spanish friends?
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   No, no.   There is no other players here yet.   I was with my coach, with my trainer, with his wife.   We were like ‑‑we couldn't believe (laughter).
Yeah, but I hope they can beat Chile, and at least we can qualify for the next round.

Q.   You can still be world champions?
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   I don't think so.   (Laughter.)







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT