AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 13, 2014
Feliciano Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 F. LOPEZ/T. Berdych
  6‑4, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Perfect example that a set is never over till it's over?   Second set?  
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   Yeah, I think was over 6‑3 in the breaker.   Then won my serve twice.   I was lucky this point.   I was defending.   He was hitting the ball so hard with the forehand.   
Finally he made the inside out forehand out.   So it gave me the chance to go 6‑All, change, switch sides, and then good point and then double fault.   That was the luckiest one.  
   
 Q.   Very, very close, wasn't it?   Start to finish?  
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   Very close, very close.   I got the early break in the first set even though the match was very, very close.   But my serve was working perfectly today.  
I think I didn't give only two maybe in the whole match, two break points, which is almost nothing.   So I'm very happy with my performance today.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk a little bit about your serve?   Did you have a strategy going into it?  
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   Not really.   The way I play on grass, it's like this.   I have to be aggressive.   I have to, you know, come in as soon as I can.   This is the way I played always on grass, and this is what I have to do.   But sometimes works; sometimes doesn't work.  
Today was working perfectly, especially because my serve was really, really good today.  
   
 Q.   Radek said yesterday that he thought the grass courts even here were slowing down a bit.   Do you think that's the case, as well?  
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   Yeah.   Over the past years it was getting slower, yeah.   Since the first time I played Wimbledon was maybe 13, 14 years ago till now I think the grass is slower, definitely.  
Still good for my game but always can be a little bit faster.   (Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   Do you think Judy Murray will be disappointed you're not playing her son in the semis?  
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   This is tennis (smiling).   Would have been great to play Andy in England, semis, Queen's Club, would have been great match for me to play, but he lost and I have to play against Radek tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts about that?  
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   Tough match.   Radek is experienced player.   He knows how to play here.   He has very good hands.   Kind of similar to my game.   Maybe my serve is a little bit harder.   But he does few things that I also like to do, so it's going to be interesting match.  
   
 Q.   Quite a few of the top seeds have fallen out of the competition now.   Is there any specific reason for that, or does that just indicate that the level of...   
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   Well, I mean, Andy, I haven't seen the match.   The rest of the guys, Wawrinka is still playing and Tsonga lost to Matosevic who is playing really good on grass the past two weeks.   
He has Australian coach, Mark Woodforde, who was probably the best doubles player in the world if not in the history.   The Woodies were incredible.   He really know how to play on grass.   He's probably working very good with Marinko, so that's why he's playing great.   And Tomas, I beat him today.   
But as I said before, to beat these guys, you have to play very, very good as I did today.  
   
 Q.   You're unusual amongst Spanish players in choosing the serve/volley style of game.   What took you down that road in the first place?   Do you ever have any regrets about it?  
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   No, no.   When you're young, you try to develop your game in the best way possible, no?   
I knew God gave me this serve when I was really young, so I have to take advantage of it.   Since the first time I played here on grass, I knew that this is the way I have to play.   I mean, what else I can do?   
If I have this serve, this is definitely how I have to go on the court and play, be aggressive, try to come in, put pressure on the guys.  
I mean, as I said before, maybe few days working better than others, but hopefully is going to continue like this for two more weeks, three weeks (smiling).   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT