AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 21, 2013
Feliciano Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. LOPEZ/I. Dodig
  7‑6, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   It was tough to get on top of him in the first set, wasn't it?
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   Yeah, the conditions, they were very tough today.   There was a lot of wind, and it's really difficult to play, no, out there with this kind of wind.
But it's about to adjust and to play your best, at least try your best, because with these conditions it's always very difficult.

Q.   Is that the kind of thing you expect when you come to Eastbourne?
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   I have played here only once before, and I know normally it's very windy because of the sea.   But this year the wind it was okay until today, I think.   Today was the worst day.
But during the week it was okay.   Hopefully tomorrow it's going to be better.   We will see.

Q.   Where do you feel you're at right now with your game?   You had the couple of injuries, didn't you, earlier in the year?
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   I'm very happy.   I mean, for me now to be in the finals of an ATP event, it's a great feeling, it's good for me, for my game, for my confidence for the rest of the year.   It's definitely a great week for me.
I haven't played for two months this year, three months total, one month after Australia, two months after Miami.   I have played very few weeks, but I have played good almost all of them. 
So I'm very happy with my performance, and hopefully I can keep playing like this until the end of the year so I can, you know, improve my rankings again.

Q.   It's look being like Simon is going to reach the final to be your opponent.   That's also the first draw in Wimbledon. 
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   Yeah.   It's funny, funny to play the same guy in three days.   (Smiling.)
But this is tennis, and sometimes these things can happen, no?   The draw was like this at Wimbledon, and apparently I'm going to play him tomorrow also, no?   He's winning 4‑1 in the second set. 
Yeah, kind of funny things, but in a way is good, because tomorrow if I win or if I lose, I will take some feedback for the match on Tuesday, and I think for him the same.
So it's kind of funny, but, you know, we don't have nothing to do with this.

Q.   Which one would you prefer to win?
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   I think here.   Final is a final.   To win the tournament is not easy.   It's very difficult.   So for the moment I take this one, obviously.

Q.   A lot of the players said the courts here are in very good condition.   What are your feelings on the grass outside?
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   The grass courts are very good. 

Q.   A lot of them are comparing them against Wimbledon, have said they are very similar standard. 
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   Yeah, they are quite good.   I think the grass courts are very unique, no?   It's very tough to keep these grass courts in good shape, to be honest.
The guys working on that, they do a great job.   I have played Queen's, I have played here and Wimbledon, and all the grass courts in England are normally in very good shape.
Is true that the courts are great.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT