AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 20, 2013
Feliciano Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. LOPEZ/F. Verdasco
  6‑4, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Your very close friend thought the game should have been suspended after the first set.   You clearly weren't in agreement?
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   You mean for the, because the conditions, they were...

Q.   Yes.
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   Well, I think the court today was never in perfect conditions.   But since we went on the court, we knew that it's going to be difficult today because the atmosphere was very humid.   So the court ‑‑it will never get dry, really dry. 
So until last couple of games of the match, the court was not good enough to play, but sometimes on grass you have to play on these conditions.
Also, in Queen's last week, happen to me a few times.   We went out of the court three times with Benneteau.   After, when we came back, the court was wet but we still were playing.
So sometimes with the grass is difficult, no, because you feel that you are not safe.   But they tell you to play and you have to play.   So not much to do.

Q.   How do you think you played in the match as a whole?
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   Today?

Q.   Yeah.   What are your thoughts on the match?
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   I thought I played quite good.   My serve was working good.   I was aggressive, as I have to be, and I think in general I'm playing quite good this week.

Q.   Do you think you have a chance in the semifinals against Dodig or Fognini?
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   We will see.   Every match is different.   I have to still play like I was playing today and the previous matches, and if I play good I will have my chances. 
On that surface, if I play good, I know I will have a good chance to win, but I have to play good. 

Q.   Fernando thought the conditions suited your game better than it suited his.   Would you agree?
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   Yeah.   When the court is like this, it's better for my game.   That's really obvious.   If the court is a little bit wet, it is good for my serve, good for my slice.   I can, you know, go to the net quite a lot.
So it's true that when the court is like this it's better for me.

Q.   Did you think it was dangerous out there?
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   Not really, not really.   When I say the court was not 100% ready, I'm talking about 75%.   Still 25% to be more dry, but not very dangerous.

Q.   Fernando said if that was Rafael Nadal out there he would have got the game called off.   Do you agree with him?
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   Sometimes, yeah, happens.   (Smiling.)   Some players, they have a lot of power.

Q.   So do you agree then that if Nadal was out there today then the game would have been postponed?
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   I mean, it's tough to say.   You have to be ‑‑you have to be there, Rafa has to be there, and that was not the case today.   It was Fernando and me.   (Smiling.)

Q.   What did he say to you at the end?
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   He said I was serving like an animal.   (Smiling.)

Q.   He claims he said he hated you and then gave you a punch in the chest. 
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   (Laughter.)   Yeah, is true.   He said, You were serving like an animal, Cabron.
A cabron is like‑‑ I don't know what is the word in English?   Something like ‑‑it's not ‑‑I have to find a word.

Q.   He said you are like cousins. 
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   We are very, very close.   My father was his coach for a while when he was young.   We are very close friends, that's true. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT