MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 6, 2013
Feliciano Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. GIMENO‑TRAVER/F. Lopez
  2‑6, 6‑4, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Hello, Felly.   Good afternoon.   Maybe you forced it a little bit to play here in Madrid.   It's already 12 times in a row you've been playing here.   Maybe you didn't have the rhythm.   
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   Yeah, well, maybe.   You know, whenever you're going to play here in this tournament, in the situation that I was ‑ I was just about to be able to come back and play ‑ you always have a lot of illusion.   Maybe in another circumstance I would have waited a little bit more.  
But my wrist was really good.   I had already five or six days without any pain, training well.   Not all that I wanted, but quite well.   That's why I played.  
Even though the game started well, maybe, yeah, it lacked a little bit of aggressiveness.   Because at the beginning, without playing so much time, well, I didn't know how everything was going to go.   I didn't play sets when I was playing.  
I was 6‑2 and there was a break ball for 2‑0, and I lacked a little bit of aggressiveness.   I had to believe more in myself and the situation.   After the match was more equal.   I went down and I wasn't really competitive.   It all went downwards.   
It was predictable, and now we have to train and prepare to play what we have left of the year.   There is nothing else.   
   
 Q.   That down that you had there, was it competitive or because of something physical?   
FELICIANO LOPEZ:   Well, it's bit of everything.   Until 6‑2, 1‑0 of the match I was more or less dominating with the serve.   He was committing some errors.   
Afterwards when he broke me in that set it was more equal.   Then I needed that little extra bit to make him commit errors because he was playing well.  
And I lacked that little bit more effort, little bit more physical to be able to reach difficult balls.   Because when he was dominating me it was really difficult for me to go back and play well.   
My level, when I was serving.   As the match kept on going I wasn't serving as good.   Well, I think it is not a day to ask of myself more.   I think he played really well.   That's all.  
We have to look forward, like to Rome and Roland Garros and play the whole year without pain, if that's possible, and finish as good as possible.   I think I'm in a moment of my career where I have to try and end as high as possible and enjoy the moment.   
Because these are years where the injuries appear more often, and I have to look after myself to keep being competitive.   I have to try to play all year as good as possible.  
You know, if the injuries allow me, try to play as good as possible.   Well, my wrist is okay now, and I'll try to end up as high as possible to play next year all the tournaments that I enjoy playing.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT