U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2011
Feliciano Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. LOPEZ/V. Pospisil
  5-7, 6-4, 7-6, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Similar situation you had at Wimbledon coming up against Murray. What do you hope to do differently to the other matches you've had against him? 
 FELICIANO LOPEZ: Well, I think I have to play aggressive, no? If you want to beat one of these players on the top four, you have to be aggressive and you have to really go for it. 
 I mean, I'm not going to beat Andy playing from the baseline and waiting for him to miss. I have to be really aggressive, to play my game, and to believe. This is what I have to do, I think.

 Q. Do you think the conditions here will suit your game generally?
 FELICIANO LOPEZ: Well, the conditions are as they used to be in the Open. I don't feel any difference in the courts compared to last year, for example. 
 So I don't think that the court will really hurt me a lot. It's quite fast court. I mean, it's slower than before. Like 10 years ago it was a little bit faster. But this is the court we have to play. 

 Q. How would you assess your form generally at the moment? You won a couple of matches in Cincinnati, Montréal. 
 FELICIANO LOPEZ: Yeah, I feel good. I mean, since three or four months I've been playing great tennis, no? But when you play one of these guys, like Andy or Novak, Rafa, Roger, you have to do something else. 
 In Wimbledon, didn't work. He played much better than me. So I have to do better this time. 

 Q. When you see a match like Andy had - he played Robin Haase in five sets and it was very close - would you rather have the challenge of playing a top player like Andy Murray, or is there a little bit of you that hopes to play the opponent and it may not be quite so difficult?
 FELICIANO LOPEZ: Well, at this time when Robin came back after 4-Love in the fifth, of course the match was so close anybody can win. So this time I didn't know. I was pretty sure when I came out of the court that I'm gonna play Andy because I just saw the score on the screen on the way to the locker room and he was 4-Love in the fifth. So I was thinking about playing Andy. 
 But then after the shower, I came back and I was watching the end of the match in the locker room, and it was really close, so... 
 Of course, for me to play in the third round, it would be better to play against Haase. He is still a very good player, no? I lost against him in Kitzbuhel one month ago and I have a lot of respect for this guy. He's one of the young guys that can really challenge the top players. He was two years out because of an injury. 
 But considering this, I think is better to play Robin than Andy. But Andy won and I have to challenge Andy now. 

 Q. How did you think you played today? 
 FELICIANO LOPEZ: I played not really good but I still won, which is the most important thing (smiling). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT