WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2011
Feliciano Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/F. Lopez
  6-3, 6-4, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, Feliciano López.   
  
  Q. Were you feeling the effects of your last match today?  
 FELICIANO LOPEZ: Not really. Not really. Probably I was a little bit tired, but it's normal, no? When you play long match as I played on Monday, you feel tired, even though I have a day off yesterday.   
 But I don't want to put this as an excuse, because he was a much better player today and he was great on the court. He played unbelievable tennis. This is the main reason because of I lost.   
  
  Q. How much can you enjoy a match like that?   
 FELICIANO LOPEZ: Well, even if you lose, when you are losing in a match like the match I played today, you have to think how lucky you are to be in the quarterfinals of Wimbledon and playing on that beautiful court against such a great player as Andy is.   
 But of course you feel also disappointed because you cannot play basically as good as you know how to play. But still great tournament for me. You know, I take this as an experience, for sure, and hopefully is gonna help me in the future.   
  
  Q. Is that the best Andy's ever played against you?  
 FELICIANO LOPEZ: Against me? I think so, yeah. He was very solid, no mistakes, serving great, unbelievable returns. I mean, at one point I didn't know where to serve because he was reading my serve very, very good.   
 And he played, yeah, overall probably the best match against me.   
  
  Q. Where do you think he's improved from a couple of years ago?  
 FELICIANO LOPEZ: Well, these kind of players, they improve a little bit every year. Maybe his forehand is more powerful now than it was before, I think.   
 But still, you know, is difficult to improve when you are such a great player, no? You have a few small things that you of course can improve. But he's a very complete player overall, so there's not weaknesses on his game. So that's basically not much to improve.  
  
  Q. How do you think it will go between him and Rafa in the semifinal?  
 FELICIANO LOPEZ: Very tough. Very tough. If Andy manage to play the way he play today, is going to be very tough for Rafa, I think. Of course, is a totally different game. I'm a more aggressive player. I come in. Rafa is a baseliner player. Is going to be a completely different match.   
 But if Andy continue to play like this, is gonna be a very, very tough match, definitely.   
  
  Q. Do you think Rafa is the favorite for that, or do you think it's quite equal between them?  
 FELICIANO LOPEZ: I would say 50/50 maybe. Maybe Rafa a little bit more because he's No. 1 player in the world. He beat Andy last year here in the semis, as well, if I'm right.   
 But right now maybe he's favored by 5% or so, but not much.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT