WIMBLEDON
June 24, 2005
Feliciano Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions.  
 
 
Q.  Safin said that he had a lot of trouble with your lefty serve.  I was wondering if you felt your serve was working better than usual or is it a general thing?
 
FELICIANO LOPEZ:  No, my serve was working quite good today, no?  But usually is one of my best weapons, serve, no?  So it was nothing different than the other days.  Probably I got a nice percentage on my first serve, so this makes my game more regular, no?  
 
Q.  Do you feel you can go really far in this tournament? 
 
FELICIANO LOPEZ:  Well, what I feel now is just that I am in the fourth round for the third time in my career and I just feel that it's a great opportunity to go far, no?  But for sure if Mario win the match, I think he's winning, is going to be very tough, no?  He's a grass court specialist.  I just have to think in that match, nothing else.  
 
Q.  Marat said he felt a big turning point was in the first set when he had a breakpoint against you.  Did you feel the same way, that when you held you were then in control of the match?
 
FELICIANO LOPEZ:  In the first set?  I was serving 15-40 once in the first set, so probably if he (indiscernible) the match at this point, probably the match was more close, no?  But after I won the first set, I think I started to play better.  And finally I really play my best tennis, I think.  
 
Q.  Marat got very upset during that game that we're talking about, had the warning.  Did you feed on that? 
 
FELICIANO LOPEZ:  No, no, no.  I just try to play my best tennis, you know, when I on the court.  But, you know, this is normal.  If you try to play your best tennis and you see and you losing, no, it's normal that Marat get pissed, no?  I just try to focus on my game.  I don't think anything else.  
 
Q.  He was also unhappy with a few of the line calls.  What about you?
 
FELICIANO LOPEZ:  Yeah, I think we have a lot of wrong calls today - on Marat side and my side as well.  But, you know, is something that happens usually, no?  The linesmens, they are not that good, and the ball coming so fast, is difficult to see the ball.  
 
Q.  How do you manage to keep your frustrations inside? 
 
FELICIANO LOPEZ:  What do you mean?  
 
Q.  You said there were a few wrong calls today.  It must be very frustrating for you. 
 
FELICIANO LOPEZ:  No, it wasn't frustrating for me.  Is just something that usually happens.  You just have to try to play your tennis.  If you pay attention to the wrong calls, you have to try that the calls they don't affect on your game.  That's the only thing.  
 
Q.  Spanish players are known as clay court players.  Where is your love for the grass and your attacking style of play coming from? 
 
FELICIANO LOPEZ:  Come from?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
FELICIANO LOPEZ:  I think my game is a little bit different than the Spanish players, no?  I go more to the net.  I try to come in.  But I like to play also on clay, no?  But for sure my game for grass I think is better.  
 
Q.  In your young age did you practice on fast courts?
 
FELICIANO LOPEZ:  Yeah, a little bit more.  I was practicing in Madrid for a long time before I move to Barcelona.  We don't have that many clay courts in Madrid, so I was practicing on hard courts for at least five years. 
 
Q.  How many times have you played on Court 1 before?
 
FELICIANO LOPEZ:  Today was the first time.  
 
Q.  We notice you walked off the wrong way. 
 
FELICIANO LOPEZ:  After the match?  Yeah, I took the wrong way.  Once I realized was no door over there, I went to the other side.  
 
Q.  Did you feel embarrassed by that?
 
FELICIANO LOPEZ:  No, no.  
 
Q.  How does it feel, Marat is the biggest seed to have gone out so far? 
 
FELICIANO LOPEZ:  Well, for sure is a great win for me, no, to beat Marat in the third round in Wimbledon is a nice win and give me confidence for the next game.  I played Marat already a few times.  I beat him most of them.  But, anyway, is a great win.  He's No. 2 or 3 player in the world.  I'm No. 26.  So for sure it's a nice win.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT