TMS - MADRID
October 17, 2003
Feliciano Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Besides the fact it hurts to lose, do you have a good memory of the tournament? 
 
 FELICIANO LOPEZ: Yes, of course, because after having been on the court for three hours fighting for the match, having played the most important tournament of your life, I'm a little bit sad. But I know I played well this week, defeating very good players. That's why it's easy to take, eases the loss.  
 
Q. Did you think the match was yours at any point? 
 
 FELICIANO LOPEZ: No. We were at Love-40. I was close. I was confident with my serve. 5-4 on my serve was possibly the end of the match. Finally, it didn't happen. I didn't take advantage of this opportunity, and the match was gone. Victory was close.  
 
Q. What about singles and doubles for Davis Cup? 
 
 FELICIANO LOPEZ: I think I've played great matches during this week, and that is going to help me be on the team. They wouldn't think about me if it was otherwise. But my performance is going to help me to be on the team. However, I don't want to think about that. If I keep playing at this level, I might find a place on the team. I want to relax and concentrate on tournaments for the moment.  
 
Q. Science fiction now. When the level you proved last year in Madrid and this year, could Feliciano Lopez be No. 1? 
 
 FELICIANO LOPEZ: I don't know about No. 1, but if all tournaments were played in Madrid, I would be higher in the ranking, that's for sure. But motivation needs to be the same throughout the year. That's what I'm going to work at in order to go up in the rankings. For whichever reasons, this tournament in Madrid is easier for me. I'm happy. Maybe it's the court playing conditions, I don't know why, but I play well here in Madrid. That's what we have to try, to keep it at this level.  
 
Q. Does it help to have a journalist compare you with Beckham and thinks you're even cuter than Beckham? 
 
 FELICIANO LOPEZ: I don't know. Of course, I'll give you a kiss right now (laughter).  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT