TMS - MADRID
October 13, 2003
Feliciano Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. After losing the second set, the tiebreak, was it difficult, because he was returning very well? 
 
 FELICIANO LOPEZ: Yes. That was a difficult moment. But I always thought I could break his serve, and finally I did it. So I knew in the third set I was going to have my chances, as well. Finally, I did, and I won the set.  
 
Q. Tomorrow Philippoussis, and everyone is saying you're going to go to the Davis Cup. Everyone is going to be watching you play. 
 
 FELICIANO LOPEZ: Yeah, I've already played against him this year. But I don't want to think about tomorrow. It's going to be a fight for this tournament. I don't want to think about the Davis Cup, whether I'm going to be on the team or not. The captains have to evaluate the whole season, not only this tournament.  
 
Q. You are playing at home. Does that put pressure on you? And what about the doubles with Alex? 
 
 FELICIANO LOPEZ: The fact of being able to play a Davis Cup motivates me and makes me want to give my best, show the captains I deserve a place on the team. The fact of playing with Alex is also encouraging. I think that can help me. We make a good team on the court.  
 
Q. I think you already know this stuff about illegal betting that's been published in the press. They say there are players involved, and that you're one of them, according to them. 
 
 FELICIANO LOPEZ: I didn't know anything before coming here this morning. I read the article. It struck me. I found it ridiculous that when you're not feeling very well during a tournament, you're throwing up, you try your best despite everything, and at the end you retire, I find it difficult that an article says that tennis players bet against themselves, all this. I don't know if it's true. But I think these comments do not help tennis. I don't know if it's a matter of people talking too much, because I find it ridiculous. I know tennis players. I know no one's able to throw a match, because you're here to play to get to the top, not to throw matches and bet against yourself. Besides, there's many things I don't understand. Kafelnikov, whether he was defeated strangely. I've seen them both play very tough matches. Nowadays, anyone can beat anyone in the world of top tennis. If I play against Nieminen, I think it's an equal match, and no one should bet on one or the other.  
 
Q. Are you planning to ask for explanations from the newspaper or the ATP? 
 
 FELICIANO LOPEZ: No. Frankly, I was so surprised, I'm not going to do anything. I'm going to try to forget this stuff. If there's really something going on in the circuit that must be investigated, it's up to someone else to do it, not me. I knew nothing. I just read it this morning, as I told you.  
 
Q. Tomorrow Philippoussis, you play again the last match of the day. 
 
 FELICIANO LOPEZ: Yes, it's going to be very hard. I hope to recover. Tomorrow is going to be difficult. He's a good player. He's played well this season. I've got to give my best to beat him. Miami was difficult against him. I hope to get a victory. It would give me confidence for the rest of the tournament.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT