NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: DEVILS v AVALANCHE
May 25, 2001
Rob Blake
Ray Bourque
Adam Foote
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Ray, what are your memories of the original big three?  You played against them?

RAY BOURQUE:   Domination.  I grew up watching them and they compete so hard, it was such a big part of that team, always seemed to be on the ice, just them winning Cups after Cups.  Larry was a great skater to carry the puck one end to another, could hit, fight you, just do it all and surge, the spin-around, you know, the strong defense and goal.  Lapointe was another guy that was strong defensively, would jump into the play offensively and a really emotional guy as well.  So, for me it was really a lot of fun watching them play when I was growing up and playing against them and actually meeting them was a thrill as well. 

Q.  In terms of the Devils as a team, as a challenge, what do you see-- each of you see as the most difficult aspect in terms of beating them?  The biggest challenge in beating these guys from their side? 

RAY BOURQUE:   Well, for me, they are just so solid.  They are strong in all areas, from the goaltending to the defense to four lines, they keep coming at you.  There is really no weaknesses.  So, I think on our part we got to play great solid hockey.  I think when it comes down to it, special teams are going to have a big part in this series.

Q.  Rob, what is it like for you playing with Ray and so much has been made about Ray not winning the Cup, but you have never won the Cup either this is your first shot, only your second trip to the Finals too. 

ROB BLAKE:   Yeah, it is great to be around you know, I don't think you ever stop learning in this League, when you can come into a situation where you got one of the greatest defenseman to play alongside, to watch him day in day out, watch him prepare for the Playoff games, I mean, that's how you get better that's how you learn.  For my situation coming here, that is something that is going to help me in my career. 

Q.  When you play a team only twice during the regular season; is the first game of a Playoff series a feeling out situation? 

ROB BLAKE:   I think the first period of any Playoff series is kind of that situation.  You want to see what they are going to bring right off the hop.  But obviously, we study a lot of film.  I mean we have watched Jersey throughout these Playoffs, and you are familiar with those guys even if you play them only twice a year.

Q.  There was something in the paper today that you are hoping now that you stay with the Avalanche.  Is that the case?  Could you talk about that? 

ROB BLAKE:   It has been a great opportunity for me here.  I have been treated first class, a great organization and a great team.  I mean any time you can get into a situation where you are going to have the opportunity to win, I think that's what any player in this League wants.

Q.  Is this your best chance to win the Cup and it is your last chance to win the Cup? 

RAY BOURQUE:   Maybe my last and I think it is my best.  Previous two times, the first time we really didn't match up that well with Edmonton.  Second time we matched up a lot better.  But just you know, didn't get off the block very good and never really got it going.  Wasn't much of a series.  We only won one game in that second series.  I think this year I really like our chances and I think if we go out and we play like we can, we will give ourselves an opportunity to win.

Q.  Alex Tanguay was talking about how you had come up with him said:  Just enjoy this.  Do you say that to somebody because you might not get this chance again? 

RAY BOURQUE:   Well, I think we have all got to enjoy it because you really don't know when you are going to be back in this situation.  Perfect example is this team first time since 1996  they have been back and I think, if you ask a lot of the players, a lot of the players feel that they should have been back to the Finals with the talent that we have had here.  So saying that, there is no guarantees and when you work hard and you get there, enjoy it, make the most of it, because you really don't know.

Q.  Question about the fact that you are all All-Stars in your own right yet each one of you don't have to do it on your own anymore.  When you were with the Kings you were the man and Ray, when you went with Boston it was all the way on your shoulders.  Adam, when you guys won the Cup there was a lot of pressure on you.  Now the 3 of you can sort of feed off each other. 

ROB BLAKE:   I think it is great.  I think the more the merrier, I think all three of us push each other every game.  You come to the bench you watch Ray or Adam go out there and do what they do each shift, it brings the best out of you every time.  We all have the same common goal, we want to win, it is an ease  -- a comfortable fit. 

ADAM FOOTE:  Will, I think also what makes it so good with us is this group is like we all share.  I don't think anyone you know, when I see Rob do well or Ray do well I am pumped up for them and I  think likewise.  I think with the teams if you make it this far you have got to look at Jersey's depth.  You could never have enough guys.  We have got a good strong blue line, everyone always talks about us but John Klemm, Greg de Vries and Skoula are great players, and you need depth to win.

RAY BOURQUE:   And I think you know, the one thing we all do is we go out and compete so hard.  We all want to win.  I mean it is great situation to be in.  I think all three of us would say that, you know, we want to be out there and in crucial situations and when you have three guys and you know you look at our "D", a lot of it is talked about, all three of us, but you know, you look at Klemm that does a big job, de Vries and Skoula, but most times you will have one of us that you can throw out there because always one of us are fresh, and I think when you got 3 guys to work in like that, it is quite an advantage for a coach. 

Q.  Three parter; if I could ask each of you to address playing one of the best lines in hockey with Jersey, what strategy do you use against them and what challenge do they pose to you?

ROB BLAKE:   I think the strategies are time and space.  They have got a good combination of pretty much everything with Arnott in the middle two speedy wingers, guys that can shoot.  You take their space away in our zone they like to cycle and they free up for one-timers.  You have got to be a stick length away because it doesn't take them long to get that shot off. 

Q.  In this series the last series you were obviously doing a lot working with against Tkachuk, who do you see on Jersey as the kind of player you are going to have trouble with the way Tkachuk gave you trouble? 

ADAM FOOTE:  Well, I think on every team you look at the power forwards.  All of us are going to see probably Arnott's line and you have got to go even further than.  That you have got speed in the Gomez line.  Holik too, big guys like that I always say like Tkachuk or Lindros, LeClair, whoever you are going to play you just respect their talents, respect their strength and  if you have got the hit, you can take it, you take it.  If not, you play good position. That's what it is all about, I think try to take away their space and respect what they do well and keep it simple. 

Q.  Have you allowed yourself to picture your name on the Stanley couple, picture hoisting the Cup; have you allowed yourself to visualize that? 

RAY BOURQUE:   Yes.  Not for long though I have got stop myself because you know, I know there is so much work to be done, but yes, I have, and it is a pretty neat feeling and I don't remember feeling like this for the previous two.  Probably because I know that you know, I don't know if I am going to get the opportunity again, but I am certainly enjoying it and visualizing a lot of things.

Q.  You mentioned the other 3 defensemen that don't always get mentioned in this group.  How have your responsibilities changed with the addition of Ray Bourque and Rob Blake in terms of leadership? 

ADAM FOOTE:  Well, I think like Rob said earlier get a guy like Ray Bourque coming in here and I think you know, ^it is ^ is it like when you are young maybe you might think you know a lot about the game.  But you got to take everything you can get off of these players.  I think you learn everyday and with my role change I think I can just play my play defense and we play with depth, and I don't think too many changes have changed.  I have never been always on the powerplay or offensively and these guys are two of the best in the game at that, so I think we can play not tired as much as maybe in the past and there is always someone ready to go out there and battle.

Q.  Ray, a number of young players on the Avalanche team, do you find yourself in these Playoffs being somewhat of a tutor teaching them  --

RAY BOURQUE:   You could say grandfather figure or something?  (LAUGHTER). No, I mean the guys have been good.  When you see guys, you know, tight or need a little wisdom in terms of just relax, enjoy it, or you know, sometimes you get pressed in certain situations or sometimes you get tentative.  You keep talking to them.  We have got some great leadership on this team.  These two guys alongside of me with Joe and Patrik, and a few other guys, you know, we have been around and so they are getting it from a lot of different areas.

Q.  Adam, the Devils have a lot of big guys who like to go to the net and stand there even some of their smaller guys do.  How important is keeping the crease and slot area clear? 

ADAM FOOTE:  I think it is important, of course, but I think also is recognizing who you are up against, if you are up against like I said earlier a power forward someone who is -- like Arnott and Holik is position and worried about his stick.  I think the mistake a lot of the defensemen make in this League they try to get involved in a battle in front; that's when you get out of position and that's when those guys get you in trouble.  So it is all about I think positioning and making sure you know where their stick is and play to your strengths and containment is better than getting big hit in most situations, and you just have to respect their strengths.

Q.  I have one question for Adam.  You alluded to this, there is only 6 guys left from the 96 team.  What is your perspective on that and that it took so long to get back? 

ADAM FOOTE:  Well, taking so long to get back I think it shows you how good this League really is how close it is and how  -- in a Playoffs you have to have the table set; everything has to be going in order to make it to the Finals and to win.  It is about injuries.  ^it is ^ is it about emotions.  It is about confidence and we can go down the line.  The 6 of us that are left, I think it is great that we still have some left for that and we can use our experience and help out others.  But I think also ^it is ^ is it more special right now it has been a long time since we have been back and there is a lot of hype and this feels good.  It feels different than the first time.  The first time it was kind of like, oh, hey, we are here, no one expected it.  Here we have had a lot of pressure and a lot of work and determination and we are here and like Ray said earlier the job is not done, but I tell you it feels good to make it this far and to go on and come over those humps. 

Q.  Ray, do you want to lift the Cup and skate off the ice and that would be it?  Would that be your last game? 

RAY BOURQUE:   I'd love to carry the Cup around and if it going to be my last game that  -- nobody will know and I don't know yet.  Once this is all said and done with, I will sit ^down ^ do you know, relax and think about that.

Q.  When would you want to make that decision? 

RAY BOURQUE:   I don't know.

Q.  Is there a contract thing on the option?

RAY BOURQUE:   No.

Q.  Date on the option to be picked up?

RAY BOURQUE:   Well there is a mutual option there on the Av's and my part, so I mean it doesn't matter, the option doesn't matter in terms of if I am going to play or not.  If the option  -- if they decide or whatever or you know, I mean, if I want to play hockey I could still play hockey.  It is a matter that decision will come after if I want to continue or not.

Q.  Could you talk about the luxury of playing in front of Patrick Roy after playing against him for so many years? 

ROB BLAKE:   Yeah, I mean, it is a feeling that's kind of hard to describe.  When you play against a guy like this you see him on his game, you almost know you are not going to get many chances, you have got to bury it, to play in front of him and it gives you so much more confidence just to play the game.  If there is a breakdown or something, you know it has to be a perfect shot, I mean he is the best there is right now and he is great to have on your side. 

Q.  Ray, were there times especially during the last couple of years in Boston where you thought you'd never get the chance again? 

RAY BOURQUE:   Well, every season I went into I am always an optimist always hoping that things were going to go well and you know, have a good season, make the Playoffs go from there.  I kind of knew that if we were going to do it we'd kind of have to overachieve.  Not that that is impossible to do, but you know, that last year was a tough one that year kind of got going, not so well and just continued to the point where they didn't make the Playoffs and at that point in time I knew that it was pretty much all over for me, thinking about the Stanley Cup possibly if I wasn't making a move and so that is why I made the move.  I think it has worked out great.

Q.  All that hoopla that kind of surrounded where you might go off the trade deadline, does that seem like a million years ago or  -- is this what you envisioned and had in mind when all that was happening?  This was the goal?

ROB BLAKE:   Definitely.  I think the day it happened and the day I found out it was Colorado, I mean the expectations to get to the Stanley Cup Finals were there.  That is a tribute to the team that played that whole season.  They have had that in their mind, the commitment to be there from Day-1 I had to fit into that.  That was a great feeling. 

Q.  You and Larry Robinson went through a couple of difficult years together in L.A. was it satisfying to you to see how he went onto better things?  Did you know that he had the kind of ability when you played for him?

ROB BLAKE:   Definitely.  I think he -- the same tribute he showed when he played as what he has as a coach.  It was difficult time in L.A..  There was a lot of player movement, a lot of ownership changes and things.  When he went on and had success in Jersey with a couple of Stanley Cups, I mean, it deservedly so because that's what he brings to the game everyday. 

Q.  What specifically did you get from the short time you played with Larry and also the time you played for him when he was coaching?

ROB BLAKE:   It was great for me.  My first year and to play alongside one of the best defensemen, I mean, you learn so much about the game, not only on the ice how to handle different situations, mistakes and things, but off the ice how to prepare yourself, you know, for the regular season how to prepare for the Playoffs.  You can only get that experience and that from guys that have been around.  That that that was fortunate for me.

Q.  Adam what would it means for you guys to collectively to be the team that helped Ray get his Cup? 

ADAM FOOTE:  Well, I think it would be definitely special.  That has been pressure -- it has been pressure that the media has been talking about all year and ^it is ^ is it something that we have been talking about all year as a team.  We have taken it to heart.  We have been determined since Day-1 and ^it is ^ is it for the fans, ^it is ^ is it for all of us and ^it is ^ is it going to be for Ray.  As much as everyone is talking about, come tomorrow we have got to think about how we have got to play and put that behind us and just start from scratch, keep it simple.

Q.  How do you manage not to get tired when you are playing past 22 minutes, 25 minutes?  How do you explain the stamina?

RAY BOURQUE:   Well, for me I am probably playing anywhere 25 to 28 minutes for me those aren't major minutes.  I am used to playing or I was used to playing over 30, 35, you know, so for me those are good minutes and they are not hard minutes because they are not consecutive minutes.  I might stay out there for 30 to 45 minute max then I sit and rest then I go back out there. It is when you are constantly out there and you know, relied upon to, you know, powerplay, penalty killing and when you are with a group like we are now, like somebody mentioned earlier, we could share a lot of the quality minutes.  That makes a huge difference because we are fresh when it comes to end of games where you might need a little extra to score a goal or to defend and you have it.  I think it's a good feeling to have.   


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT