SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 4, 2017
A.J. McInerney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Now that you've experienced three rounds on a PGA TOUR event, how do you feel?
A.J. MCINERNEY: It's still amazing.  So thankful for the opportunity.  Felt a little bit calmer out there today, and took advantage early of the calm winds, and then the winds picked up for us on the front side there.  And I really didn't hit many bad shots, and I just misjudged the wind on 3, made bogey.  Again on 5, I made a double.
But, you know, just having a blast out here with all the local fans.  Everyone just cheering and having fun in Vegas right now.  So it's pretty fun to be a part of it.
Q. Any memorable comments throughout the three days that kind of stick out?
A.J. MCINERNEY: Just Vegas Strong.  Vegas Strong.  Bunch of people just saying let's go A.J.  Vegas Strong.  So that's really cool.
Q. You played the season on Web.com.  How does playing on a PGA TOUR event differ from playing on the Web.com tour?
A.J. MCINERNEY: It's, I mean, it's so similar.  The pins are a little bit harder out here.  The pins right now are in some spots that I've never seen, and I'm from here.
So, yeah, but the Web.com Tour is great.  The talent and the competition out there is amazing.  So that's a great learning place for me.  I'll continue to learn out there until I get my full card out here.
Q. You shot 32 on the front.  Can you talk about how you had it going early on?
A.J. MCINERNEY: Yeah, that was my front side.  That was the course's back side.  That side does play a little bit easier.  But we were the first group off.  So the wind hadn't really picked up until -- it really didn't pick up until 16, 15, 16.  So we got five holes in there with virtually no wind.  So that was a big help.  So, yeah.  I think that the putts were kind of dropping for me, and I was missing the right spots.
Q. Besides the wind on your back nine, what was the trouble there on that par 3?  You made a double there.  Anything in particular happen?
A.J. MCINERNEY: Yeah, I switched clubs right before I hit it.  I switched to one more club.  I just, I don't know that I was 100% committed to it.  But it kind of got up in the wind, floated left, and got a bad lie down slope of the bunker, downwind.  These greens are rock hard right now.  I had no chance.  And tried to get aggressive with the putt, rolled one by, and missed the comeback with easy doubles.
Q. A.J., on Tuesday, you mentioned that even if you're Top 10, you're still going second stage at Web.com.  Is that a decision you expected to have to make?  I guess you'll be happy if you have to make it.
A.J. MCINERNEY: I thought about it, of course.  Top 10 tomorrow will be awesome.  But I'll still be in Texas on Tuesday.  Actually, Sunday night.
Q. Made a little bit of a run yesterday just to make sure you would be here on the weekend.  Can you walk through maybe the latter stages of your round yesterday?
A.J. MCINERNEY: I had to finish four holes this morning, so my first tee shot was on 15 today.  This morning at 7:30.  I made birdie there.  It was a great birdie.  Kind of settled me down and got me a decent cushion from the cut line.  Hard 16, 17, back left pin with the 6-iron in your hand, it's 8:00 in the morning, it's cold.  I mean, it's not exactly the shot you want to have.  But dumped it in the bunker, made bogey, and parred 18.  So kind of did what I had to do, I guess.  But, yeah, to make the cut was a positive for me, and I'll make the best tomorrow.
Q. What was it like last night knowing that the cut was kind of looming there?
A.J. MCINERNEY: I didn't even look at it.
Q. You didn't?
A.J. MCINERNEY: I asked my caddie when we were sitting down at dinner.  I asked what the cut line was at, and he said don't even worry about it.  I'll tell you what you have to do.  So I had my phone off all night last night.  I need to focus on golf right now.
But he would have told me if I needed to make something happen there at the end, and luckily I didn't.
Q. What's it been like at night?  Just going through your routine?  Going back to the house?
A.J. MCINERNEY: Yeah, I'm going back home, up to Anthem.  Hanging out.  I've got my caddie staying with me, one of my good buddies, Tad Darling and his girlfriend at the house.  Kind of have a full house, and we're just hanging out and having fun.
Q. I know you have one more day to go.  But just the three rounds, is the first round different than today?  I mean, I know because the emotions of the first tournament compared to this morning?
A.J. MCINERNEY: Oh, yeah.  I was nervous the first day.  I think it showed in my score and the way I hit it.  But then to come out this morning and play those four holes kind of got those nerves out of the way and made the cut.  I hadn't hit balls for ten minutes after I finished, and went straight to No. 10 tee.  So I didn't have a whole lot of time to think about it.  And I felt a lot better out there today.  More calm, more in tune with my swing and my game.  Made some birdies there early.  And the course is playing tough.
I mean, yeah, that front side is tough.  So if you shoot even par, 1-under on that side, you're golfing your ball.
Q. Considering what you just said, how much of an advantage is it for you to be in the clubhouse and watch everybody else out there twisting in the wind?
A.J. MCINERNEY: It is a big advantage.  I don't know where I stand right now at 2-under par.  But, yeah, the guys that are making the turn and going to the back side, it does play easier.  There are two reachable par 5s and a drivable par 4.  But, yeah, it will be interesting to see and fun to watch on TV.  It's firming up out there.
Q. What are your expectations for tomorrow?
A.J. MCINERNEY: Just to stay in the moment, take it one shot at a time, and have fun and enjoy this crowd.  I mean, the Vegas community out here this week, and everyone's saying Vegas Strong and go A.J. and that kind of stuff, it's really special.  I just want to enjoy that and take it one shot at a time and see if I can get some putts to drop.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT