ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2014
Laurent Lokoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. JOHNSON/L. Lokoli 
      4‑6, 6‑7, 7‑6, 6‑3, 6‑3 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please.   
   
 Q.   Will you remember this match that you lost yesterday, will you remember that forever?  
    LAURENT LOKOLI:   Yes, it's never easy when you have a match ball in your racquet you want to win.   But that's part of the game, that's what tennis is about.  
    This sport drives us crazy sometime.   You know, I saved match balls, and I had some.   Eventually I lost.   
    This Roland Garros will nevertheless be a beautiful memory.   I played three first sets at a very high level.   I didn't manage to finish the match.   I don't think I played worse, but I allowed him to step up and get organized.   He started playing much better.   And then tennis goes very fast.  
    But a first match in five sets, I wish it finished the other way around.   
   
 Q.   How did you manage to sleep last night?   I guess you had many things on your mind.   
    LAURENT LOKOLI:   Yeah, I was not very happy.   I knew I had many opportunities.   I should have played them differently.   But then I managed to tell myself that this was behind me.   There was nothing I could do about it.   I had a match that I needed to finish.  
    I tried to do everything I had to do.   I tried to feed myself properly, rest myself, warm up, and then start well in the fifth set.  
    But the problem is we were already at 3‑1, and it's difficult to come back, especially after a player like him with such a beautiful serve.  
    But you're right, it was difficult for me to sleep last night, because even though you try not to think about it, it's difficult.  
    But for me, for my personal experience, I think it's great, because that's something I have learnt.  
   
 Q.   Did you see yourself winning the match yesterday?   He was in a difficult position.   Did you see yourself winning the match?  
    LAURENT LOKOLI:   Oh, no, that's a tennis match, and a tennis match is over when the last ball is played and when the last point is played.  
    The first match point, he played it in a wonderful way, so I have no regrets.  
    As for the second one, I missed it and it went out.   It's not always easy to manage those moments.   
    But for a first slam, I did well I think.   I gave everything I had and that's a ball that was out.   I have no regrets.   I wish I had won this match, obviously, but I gave my best.  
    Today I'm exhausted, but I have no regrets.  
   
 Q.   Would you say that this is a huge step forward for you?  
    LAURENT LOKOLI:   I'll tell you that in the upcoming weeks.   I mean, it's always easy to be very good on one tournament, but then you have to continue being good.  
    But I proved myself a few things.   Mentally, for instance, five‑set matches are more difficult than three‑set matches.   And I discovered something different.   I discovered another way of playing tennis, because you don't play a match in three sets the same way.   It's a totally different approach.   
    So it's good.   It's good for me.   And I hope this will trigger something.  
   
 Q.   Would you say you've won your spot in the Davis Cup team because you attracted such a huge crowd?   That's quite unique.   Have you ever experienced that in any of your matches?   What's the impact on you?  
    LAURENT LOKOLI:   Well, there were many people who came from Corsica to support me.   I told you about it.   I said they would come and support me, and they did.   And they were very loud, and I liked it very much.   
    I love this island of mine.   I love it.   And seeing all these people, they came all the way.   They had no return ticket to go back home.   They came with just a single ticket to get to Paris.   
    I don't know if you get to see that in other parts of France, but in Corsica, they wanted to support me with all their heart and all their passion.  
    I don't know if any other players ever experience having so many people from his or her native island supporting him.   I'm so proud.   It's a unique moment for me, and I want to thank them from the bottom of my heart.  
   
 Q.   So you're back to your daily routine.   What's your agenda?   Are you playing a future?  
    LAURENT LOKOLI:   Yes, a future in Corsica.   I went through ups and downs in my life.   My life is what it is.   Not always fun.   But Roland Garros was a dream for me.   
    I wish the dream could have lasted longer, which is not the case, but I know where I belong.   I know I have to play many futures and challengers.  
    This tournament was a dream, and I need to continue working hard, because I want to perform even better here.   And to be able and manage these moments, which I didn't manage that well yesterday.  
   
 Q.   Did you log onto the Internet to see all the fans you have after your match today?  
    LAURENT LOKOLI:   Well, I have realized that, and it gave me strength.   Because when you are down 1‑3 in the fifth set, and you want to continue, it gives you strength.   
    But now I think it's good for me to go back to my room.   So now I know what I have done well and what I have missed.   I have seen the passion of my fans, and I was so happy because those matches are never easy and I did not consider myself as somebody who managed to remain focused all the match.   So I was a bit upset with myself.  
    But when you get to the fifth set, I think you lose your focus.   I missed many opportunities.   I'm still a rookie on the tour.   But it was great fun for me, and I really wanted to play well this morning.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT