THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 4, 2014
Troy Matteson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Troy, wow.   Congratulations.   Super round of golf.   9‑under, nine birdies, no bogeys on the card.   Good sand save at the last and 19 putts.   Did you feel this coming when you got here this morning?  
TROY MATTESON:   No.   Actually I was a little worried this morning.   I've been working on some new swing stuff, and you're never quite sure when it's only been a day or two.   So obviously today I hit it much better, as much as YOU can out here in the wind when it's as gusty as it is.  
   
 Q.   Talk about your putting, because I think you one putted the first eight.   You made that one at 17 for birdie, and that was officially not a putt.   I guess you were on the collar.   But the flag stick was superb?  
TROY MATTESON:   Yeah.   It was unlike any day I've had this year.   I just haven't been getting it in the hole all year, and to have a day like this really kind of turns things around.   But I've always been a streaky putter.   When I get hot, it usually falls in from just about anywhere and that's one of those days today.  
   
 Q.   So when you put the ball on the ground at 18, did you look at the flag and go, you know, if this goes in, it's a 59?  
TROY MATTESON:   Well, I had 9‑iron out, and I guess it's 163, and my caddie goes, you know, you need to play that left of the hole there just a little bit.   And I said the only way to make this and shoot 59 is to get a wedge.   And I said like, do I really want to mess this round up, and I was like, you know, I gotta take a shot at it.   How many shots are you going to get.   
And you know, I just pushed it, just very slightly, and you know, at 163 downwind, I mean your shot has to be perfect to that pin today just to get it inside of 10 feet.   So I felt like I had to take a stab at it, and it worked out in the end.   Making a 3 was much better than I expected seeing that ball go in the bunker.  
   
 Q.   Your season has been kind of frustrating.   You missed a bunch of cuts.   You've made four.   Does a round like this give you a big spark going into the weekend to take advantage of this and get those FedExCup points, get some cash?  
TROY MATTESON:   Yeah, I think so.   You're going to go through rough spots in your career at some point, and it's just a matter of how long they are, and for me usually I'm a streaky putter.   You know, I play good in five or six tournaments.   They might be in a row.   They might be sporadic throughout the year.   But that's how golf is.   It's an 80/20 deal.   For some guys it's the reverse, but for most of us it's an 80/20 deal.  
   
 Q.   Well, you didn't make a birdie on Thursday.   You made a bunch of them.   Congratulations.   Good luck on the weekend.   
TROY MATTESON:   Thank you very much.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT