FRYS.COM OPEN
October 6, 2011
Troy Matteson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Troy, nicely done. You play yourself around pretty well. Your caddy says you lose one to the right at 17 and then the good stuff starts happening out there.  
 TROY MATTESON: Yeah. It was kind of an odd day. This is a tough golf course. It's a long golf course because it's wet, and I didn't start off too hot and really didn't get much going and hit a bad one at 17. But after that I just kind of was patient, just kept waiting for our putts and we finally got two good looks at it coming in.  
  
  Q. Bounce-back at 18, I'm sure, fixes everything at 17 and really gets your mind back in the right shape?  
 TROY MATTESON: It sure does. You know, to that right pin on 18 just getting one in there three feet. Knowing you can make it because it's straight in, straight up the hill is always good.  
  
  Q. How tough was it to feel your way around this golf course today, with the rain, with a little bit of wind, especially on the greens? I understand they're kind of hard to figure. A lot of undulation here.  
 TROY MATTESON: It is just because it plays so long, so you're going to have more putts than most locations you did not hit last year. Like 9 was obviously very reachable last year and you gotta really pound one today to get it down there.   
 The greens are difficult. There's a lot of putts you misread by a ball or two and that makes a huge difference out here, and it's tough because you play on both sides of the creek in this valley, and really, there's no one direction that all the putts go, so you really gotta be on your game when you're reading them.  
  
  Q. You've been playing pretty well this year. Are you looking for the one big week that would really make it a great year?  
 TROY MATTESON: Yeah. I don't think -- I haven't put it together this year and it's just been one shot here, one shot there or maybe a bad round on Sunday, and it could have been a very different year. But this is going to be my last tournament this year, so hopefully this is a big one.  
  
  Q. Go out with a bang.  
 TROY MATTESON: Thanks.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT