PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY SEEPUERTORICO.COM
March 11, 2011
Troy Matteson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Good playing today. Was there anything particularly that stood out today from your round?
 TROY MATTESON: You know, I would say just this week in general I've hit the ball much better. I've putted pretty good. These greens are tough to read, but you know, that's just kind of the part of the game when you come here. You try to hit as many greens as you can, and hopefully you read some of those putts well. And I think we've done a nice job reading the putts so far. 
 But with that being said, I mean you still misread a few and scratch your head. So this week I've hit the ball nice from tee to green. That's certainly helped out.

 Q. Okay. Conditions wise, yesterday we had a little rain, softened the greens up a little bit. How would you compare today from yesterday?
 TROY MATTESON: You know, this place dries out pretty quick. I didn't play obviously in the afternoon, so I couldn't really tell you, you know, how soft it got. I saw a little bit of the coverage on TV and saw the guys -- a few guys got some mud balls. 
 But you know, it pretty much seems the same to me. I know it can dry out a little bit here, but this is pretty much an ideal place to play golf and grow grass, and it's always good here. So it's really hard to say that it changes much from day to day. These guys do a really nice job.

 Q. Then just Puerto Rico in general. How has the week been here on the resort? Are you staying outside? How are they treating you so far?
 TROY MATTESON: You know, I stay on site every year I come here. There's no reason not to. They do a great job with food and a place to stay and be close to the golf course. You can get a lot done in a short period of time. So it is fun, and we also hit the lakes a little bit and do some fishing, you know, which is an extra bonus for us to be able to do that. 
 But you know, I've been coming to Puerto Rico for a long time, and I really enjoy it down here, and I know a lot of guys do, and it's nice to have an extremely nice golf course to play while you're down here.

 Q. And you get asked this a lot, I'm sure, but just thoughts going into the weekend. You're up towards the top of the leader board. Anything you do differently because of that?
 TROY MATTESON: No. I'm going to pretty much play the same. I've been hitting it good, starting to see the ball turn over a little bit more, hit a little bit more up in the face. And you know, I just want to put a solid weekend on the board, more than anything. You know, if I hit it the way I did these first two days, I should be in good shape to do that. And I haven't played well this year, so I'm just happy that I got off to a good start this week. 

 Q. Great. Thanks. 
 TROY MATTESON: Appreciate it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT