FRYS.COM OPEN
October 24, 2009
Troy Matteson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome Troy Matteson into the interview room here at the Frys.com Open. 9-under par, 61. Just incredible playing. If we can just get your comments on the day.
 TROY MATTESON: It's just been unbelievable. I've not even shot a 61 prior to this week. To shoot two of them, I don't even know what to say. You know, just making a lot of birdies out there and hitting a lot of good shots and keeping my ball in play. 
 A lot of close opportunities, and that's really the key out here. How many times can you hit it inside five, ten, feet. 20 feet just doesn't cut it out here. 
 So we had a lot of good looks at it over the last two days, and I've had a lot of easy putts. If you get easy putts and you're stroking it well, you're gonna make a lot of putts.
 JOHN BUSH: All right. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 TROY MATTESON: You know, what, I hit quite a few greens. I think I hit 14 greens. I missed two greens in two really bad positions and made two bogeys that way. 
 And then, you know, I just didn't hit anything really close. Just didn't have good looks at it. With the valley effect here, I missed some putts low that I probably shouldn't have missed low. 
 But, you know, it's just a struggle. Nothing would go in. All of a sudden I come out here the next day and it's like voila, there it is. You start hitting it close and you start making putts. 
 I don't know. I can't tell you why sometimes we shoot 72 and then 61, but, you know, I'll just take it right now.

 Q. You're not supposed to follow one 61 with another 61. That's probably the hardest thing to do in golf. 
 TROY MATTESON: Well, you know, yeah, it is. It's tough to finish -- follow up a good round. You know, typically when you shoot 8 or 9-under, you know, if you can shoot 3 or 4 the next day you're pretty happy with yourself. 
 Like I said, I had a lot of the same putts I had today. You know, right edge putts, inside right. I didn't have anything crazy. I didn't have any big 10-foot breaking putts, which you can get out here if you hit it on the wrong side of the green.
 Just had a lot of good looks at it. Pretty easy day for me. Usually, like I said, when you shoot a low one, you end up struggling a little bit the next day. It's really uncommon to have two days where I didn't struggle.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 TROY MATTESON: The greens are perfect here. They've just done an excellent job with the golf course. The fairways, for us, give us great lies every single time we're hitting into a green. So a guy drives it in a fairway, he's gonna feel really good about his shot into the green. 
 Once you got on the greens, they're perfect speed for making putts. They're immaculate right now. If you put a good read on them, it's gonna go in. I've seen a lot of putts made. I played with Bill over the last three days, and he's made a lot of putts. 
 You know, that helps just to see a lot of putts go in. When you see everyone in your group making putts, that helps you get them in there. That's extraordinary. Right now the conditions are just perfect for shooting low.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 TROY MATTESON: Boy, you know what, we saw him hit the shot on 11. We're standing on the tee box waiting for them to play. He hits it, and the next thing I know, you know, you can't really see it from that far away, but everyone just went crazy at the green. Of course you can see the green from the tee box, so we figured he made a double eagle. 
 Did he birdie the next hole after that? 

 Q. Parred. 
 TROY MATTESON: Parred and then he birdied the par-3? 

 Q. No, he aced it. 
 TROY MATTESON: He aced it. See, somebody came up to us when we were out there, and they said, Yeah, he aced this hole. Then somebody goes, No, no, he birdied it. So we didn't have really reliable information. But we were thinking on the tee, Well, we don't know what he did on the last hole, but let's just say he birdie this one. What if he aced it? I mean, could've potentially gone two, then a birdie, then a one.
 He could have played three holes in six shots. That's pretty incredible. To make a double eagle once in your lifetime is incredible, but to make one of those and then make a hole in one within three holes has got to be some kind of unrealistic odds. He needs to go straight back to Vegas and put some money down.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 TROY MATTESON: You know, I just -- I'm happy with mine the way it turned out. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 JOHN BUSH: Any of the birdies stand out? I know you said you hit it close most of the day, but any long ones? You only had 24 putts overall.
 TROY MATTESON: You know, 17 was a really good birdie for me just because I don't play here normally. The valley effect I have to really guess. I probably played over double the break I would've played on my putt on 17 and made it, which was really exciting. I actually guessed right on one of those difficult putts. 
 You know, I know if you're a member here and you play here, that's just one that breaks a lot more than think and you know it. So that was exciting to get that one in.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 TROY MATTESON: Well, you know, it's been an incredible year. I think I've seen six hole in ones this year. You know, there's three today. There were four at Canada, so they gave away all four cars at Canada. I was playing with Baird when he made one there. 
 I've seen Elkington make one; I've seen (indiscernible) make one; I've made two. But, you know, it's just been a weird year. A lot of hole in ones this year.

 Q. You made two?
 TROY MATTESON: Yeah, I made one in a practice round and I made one at Pebble Beach. Well, I made one at Poppy when we played the Pebble tournament. 
 But, you know, it's just been a weird year. Couple eagles, hole in ones, guys holing it from the fairways. Last week was like that. A lot of guys holed shots from the fairway. 
 So, you know, it's just the old these guys are good. They're pretty good. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 TROY MATTESON: You know, with the year I've had, it's -- first of all, it's indescribable. Two days ago, if you'd have asked me what I was gonna shoot on Friday, I would have said, You know, I'll take anything in the red. 
 It's amazing how fast golf changes. It's just one day something clicks, and all of a sudden you get on a little run. Hopefully I can keep it going.
 It's nice to have some good rounds with the year I've had. It's getting towards a nice ending. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT