SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 20, 2013
Troy Matteson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Troy, what a birdie run you go on.   You par eight holes, you birdie 9, 10, suddenly you get everyone's attention.   What were you thinking through that stretch?
TROY MATTESON:   You know, the back side here is definitely where you can make your birdies and I was just fortunate enough to kind of birdie those holes that you don't normally birdie.   I mean it's easy to maybe pick one up on 10, one on 13, one on 15, one on 16.   But we just happened to hit it close and gave ourselves very good looks and that's something we didn't do all week.

Q.   Yeah.   You had just three birdies over that stretch before today.   Obviously putted very well and a great ball‑striking round for you.   You hit 17 greens. 
TROY MATTESON:   Yeah, it was a really good ball‑striking round.   As a matter of fact, when I got to 16, I thought I was going to get that eighth one and I ended up hitting the pin almost going in the lake, so would have had a tap‑in there.
But you know what, all in all it's a great end to my week.   I didn't quite figure it out in the middle of the week, but certainly put it together today.

Q.   Congratulations. 
TROY MATTESON:   Thank you very much.

Q.   What did you figure out?   Any adjustment or what?
TROY MATTESON:   I've been working on my swing quite a bit with Buck Mayers for quite some time, and I've been working with him for probably I want to say seven months.   And I'm starting to put it together a little bit.   I've been kind of moving forward on top of the ball and kind of being rotary first instead of staying in position and hitting the ball.   It's just taken a long time to get to where I've hit a few shots that I would consider good, and obviously out here when you're playing 18, you want to be able to aim at those bunkers and turn it off of them.   You don't want to be aiming right up the middle of the fairway there because it looks like you could hit it in the gunch if you just pulled it just a little bit.   So I'm starting to see that ball turn over a little bit.

Q.   That's great.   Thank you very much.   Did you hurt your nose?
TROY MATTESON:   I did.   I had a little accident, but you know what, I survived it.

Q.   Anything dramatic?   Burglar broke?   Fist fight?
TROY MATTESON:   No.   No.   I wish I had a good story.   Just being dumb.   Just rough‑housing.

Q.   Just curious.   There were a ton of guys out there that were thinking 59.   Were you just thinking birdie every single hole on the back?
TROY MATTESON:   You know, I knew if I had a good drive on 16 I could pick up one more there.   The lay‑up didn't kill me, but when I hit that wedge shot in there, I thought it was going to be good.   I really didn't think it was going to nick the pin, and it nicked the pin and you know how it does when it nicks the pin.   It automatically spins back, and I was very fortunate that didn't end up worse.   Sometimes when you're playing good you almost wish the pins weren't in the holes.
But you know, it's always a possibility out here.   I mean look at what happened in the first round with J.J. and I think it was Andres Romero; right?   You know you're flirting with it the whole time.   I mean that's what's fun about this course is there's a lot of birdie opportunities.   Yeah, you can shoot a bad round if you let it get away but we like playing here because there's just so many good opportunities.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT