THE BARCLAYS
August 29, 2009
Troy Matteson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   TROY MATTESON: Obviously when you come in here and you're 125th, nobody can pass you, which is great, because all year, people are passing you. Somebody can win and jump you if you haven't already made 500 points. So coming in here is pretty much a win/win situation for me regardless of what I do, especially making the cut and playing well on the weekend.   
 I hope I get a chance to play in Boston. I played pretty well up there, and you know, I feel like if I can get to Boston, I might even be able to get to Chicago. So you know, it would be a weird year if that happens, being that I had not played very well up to this point, but that's golf, and you don't know when you're going to play good.   
  
  Q. Did you study it coming in?   
 TROY MATTESON: No. The points are so high in the Playoffs that you know, you can have a good week and it just does so much more for you rather than the regular season, having a Top-10 sometimes won't move you that far, depending on where you're at.   
 You know, for me, this is kind of like a second chance at the season and it's just the benefits of being in the Playoffs.  
  
  Q. How much were you thinking about it coming in?  
 TROY MATTESON: Oh, we watched it pretty hard on Sunday. I'd go outside, I'd be inside, I'd go outside, I'd be inside. Pretty much all day, you're watching the leaderboard and you're pulling up everybody's play-by-play to see where they are at and what they are doing or could do.   
 It's kind of a perfect storm, because a lot of people that played well that needed to move ahead of us, and they did. And the few people that could have rocked the boat on the last day ended up not playing well at Greensboro. So it was just a real nerve-wracking Sunday.   
 You know, at the end of it, it still said we were tied with Matt Jones, and that was online obviously, and then the computer with the TOUR actually had me a point ahead. It looked like we might both get in there for a second. It was really a hard Sunday.   
  
  Q. Do you feel more relaxed?   
 TROY MATTESON: Definitely now that I'm here and I wasn't going back home.   
 With as much as I've played this year, this could be -- don't quote me, you may have to look it up, but 26 tournaments or 27 tournaments already this year, and if I got in next week, that would be one more and then I'm certainly looking at playing the last four or five in the Fall Finish.   
 So this will be the most tournaments I've played in the season to date. You don't want to have to play over 30. You would like to play 20 and make good money and finish high, but some years, it just doesn't work out like that.   
  
  Q. Do you have any sympathy for Matt Jones?  
 TROY MATTESON: You know, you want to get in so bad, you don't stop to think about that until after the fact. A lot of good players didn't get into the Playoffs, Ken Duke, Rich Beem, and especially guys like Rich being a major winner. You do wish everybody could get in obviously but at the same time, this is why we play and they want to beat me add bad as I want to beat them.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT