BUICK OPEN
July 30, 2009
Troy Matteson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Just go ahead and talk about your overall round. 6-under, pretty good round today. 
 TROY MATTESON: Yeah. It was a little bit of an odd round just with chipping in and holing in from the rough on a hole. 
 I probably didn't putt it the best I could have, but very odd round. I had a few eagles to end up at 66, but I'll take it. I haven't been playing good this year, and anything under par right now I'll take.

 Q. Do you really feel like the greens were to your advantage? I know the last couple holes were probably a little rough for you. 
 TROY MATTESON: You know, these greens held up well today, and usually here it's a little softer than this, so this year we've had great weather, and the greens are really holding up nicely. I thought they were smooth for 16 or 17 holes, which is very tough to do on greens like this. And I think this is going to be a great tournament; I think this is going to be a great week. 

 Q. Languishing in the 135 in the FedExCup. What a good time to start playing good. 
 TROY MATTESON: It is. It is. I haven't played good all year. It's nice to have a good round and have a good start to a tournament where you have a chance to play well. 
 There's a lot of guys obviously in my situation, and there's a lot of guys above that mark on the FedExCup, which is where you want to be at this time of the year, but we'll take whatever counts.

 Q. When you have a start like that, you know, 4-under after four, is it hard to stay in the present and not get ahead of yourself?
 TROY MATTESON: I think so. I think it is for anybody. I've had a lot of good things to focus on in my golf swing and things that I'm doing, so obviously that helps. 
 When you don't have enough to focus on, your mind starts to wander a little bit, and luckily I didn't have to deal with that too much today.

 Q. What did you use on that chip-in from No. 2? You said you had to come around the trees on that one. 
 TROY MATTESON: Yeah. I had 134 yards, 9-iron, hit a little flight cut, and it's just a shot you're trying to get within 20 feet of the hole, and just so happened it ended up perfect.

 Q. Do you remember the last time you had two eagles in a round?
 TROY MATTESON: It's been a long time. When you play bad, you don't make many eagles, so it's really nice to have those eagles. 

 Q. Obviously 6-under, how does that change your approach going into tomorrow, now that you're in contention now?
 TROY MATTESON: I think tomorrow you just try to do more of the same stuff, maybe hole a few putts. 
 I mean you're not always going to hole those shots out, but hopefully I'll putt a little better tomorrow. I actually putted really well today, just didn't get that much drop. 

 Q. Do you think the course was better this morning as opposed to the afternoon?
 TROY MATTESON: The greens may have been slightly smoother, but as I said, these greens were excellent all day. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT