ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 24, 2009
Troy Matteson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. An eagle, I mean, Troy, in this wind? It started out not quite blowing as hard as it did when you finished, but, still, tell me about your round, man?  
 TROY MATTESON: I tell you, I hadn't had that many birdies and eagles all year if you add it all together. So it's good to get a little round like that. And we had eight, nine, ten holes without much wind.   
 So getting that eagle at the end really helped. By that point we were playing downwind. It's just shaping up to get a little pace taste of what we got yesterday afternoon.  
  
  Q. Tell me about this golf course, and how it changed from round one to round two?  
 TROY MATTESON: The greens are going to be more dried out with the wind. And getting a little wind is going to make the shots difficult out there. With the greens they roll around quite a bit. There is a lot of green and some break to them. It's going to keep transforming. The greens will be firmer, and the fairway faster.  
  
  Q. After the front nine, did you look up on the scoreboard and think to yourself, okay, I've got a little something now?  
 TROY MATTESON: Yeah, this course out here, if you can shoot five or more, you're going to make a move. A good, solid round is usually three. When we cross that barrier, we knew we were doing pretty good. We didn't have to look up there.   
 But I think most of the low scores are going to come out of the morning.   
  
  Q. You've got to be happy, 8 under, you tore this course up. Seems like a lot easier playing this morning than today?  
 TROY MATTESON: In the morning you're going to get little wind for at least five or six holes. Just to get off to a good start is important on a course like this. You can make a lot of bogies pretty fast. You can make a lot of birdies fast. And getting our shot out this morning was nice after seeing what the guys did yesterday morning.  
  
  Q. I know you've had a lot of success on many of the holes, but what stands out for you?   
 TROY MATTESON: Just getting a few holes in before the wind. It makes those shots so much easier. We've got great par 3s here, great finishing holes, 17 and 9. You have to step up and finish a shot.   
 But in the middle, you have holes you can take advantage of as long as the wind doesn't blow too bad, those shots aren't too difficult. And 17 and 9 aren't so difficult.  
  
  Q. Do you have a number in your head that it's going to take to win this tournament, because the numbers are climbing?  
 TROY MATTESON: It's hard to tell. If the wind blows maybe it will be 15 or 16. If it doesn't blow, maybe it will be 20. You never know out here, because this golf course can change very quickly.   
  
  Q. Do you look at the forecast and see what the weather's going to be in terms of the wind and worry about that at all?   
 TROY MATTESON: I think we do. We look at which way the wind's going to come out of. If it's going to stay the same. It helps us for wind direction. It does help you with the mindset.   
 If It's blowing 20, 25 miles an hour, you know you don't have to go that low. You know you're going to have to be a little smarter with managing your golf ball around the golf course. You know, for me, that will dictate how I play.   
  
  Q. Is that the key today of controlling the ball and moving it around?   
 TROY MATTESON: Out here we've got -- obviously in the morning we got away without having much wind for the front nine. And that's really important, because these shots can become very, very difficult if you've got 15-mile-an-hour winds.   
 You're hitting a lot of 9-irons, 8-irons, 7-irons. You're only hitting 115 to 130 yards. That's just really key to manage your ball flight out there.  
  
  Q. Was the course set up as well today as it was yesterday?   
 TROY MATTESON: Yeah. They moved some tees around today, and I think they had to based on the wind we might have this afternoon. And it's good to change it up. It's good for people to see different holes and see a guy maybe be able to take a chance on a hole, whereas, the day before he had to play it conservative. So I think it set up really well.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT