WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 2, 2013
Troy Matteson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You didn't start off so great.   What turned it around this week?   
TROY MATTESON:   I don't know.   You know, I was sick most of December, so I spent the first couple of weeks just getting used to playing golf again.   We got the bug in our family just like everybody did this year.   
Really I didn't touch a club until the first tournament.   You know, I got here this week and felt a little better about it.   This is always a birdie test, so if you can get any confidence, you can make some birdies.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the greens, because obviously to make birdies you have to roll in some putts.   
TROY MATTESON:   They were really good.   They had some years where the weather got them early.   I think the overseed probably took pretty nice.   All in all, the course is in great shape.   The greens roll well here.   You see guys making eagles and birdies.   
   
 Q.   Obviously if Phil's car breaks down on the way out here, it will be an interesting tournament.   What do you do when you see a guy who goes and runs off from the field?  
TROY MATTESON:   He's definitely put himself in a great position, and I'm sure he will make a few more before it's all said and done today.  
Hats off to him.   A guy comes out and almost shoots 59 the first round, it's just really unbelievable to see guys play like that because the quality of golf is so good out here.   It's hard to get three, four, five, six shots ahead.  
   
 Q.   It was fabulous playing, no doubt about it.   We have to play golf tomorrow, and just about anything can happen.   How do you stay in your game plan tomorrow and with your mindset and not pay attention to what's going on around you?  
TROY MATTESON:   I think you go out with the same mindset, just try to hit quality shots that give you the looks.   Who knows?   Guys can shoot 8, 9 under, so it's not over yet.  
But, you know, if he shoots 8 or 9 under, it's going to make it really difficult.  
   
 Q.   No doubt about it.   Go get 'em.   
TROY MATTESON:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   Any highlights in your 66?   More of the same from the previous two days?  
TROY MATTESON:   You know, I hit kind of a bad shot on ‑‑I parred the first two holes and had a bad drive on 3, found myself in the ditch, in the mud.   Somehow hit a good layup shot and had mud all over the ball and somehow got it close to the hole and made 4.  
If that turns into a 5 or 6, obviously that's not how you get your round off to a great start, but just saving the little putts out here are so important, 5‑ and 6‑footers for par.   When you do have them, you need to knock them down.   We have done a pretty good job with that so far.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT