WNBA FINALS: DREAM v LYNX
October 5, 2011
Marynell Meadors
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Minnesota: 101
  Atlanta: 95

 THE MODERATOR: Coach, if you would begin please with an opening statement and we will then open the floor to questions. 
 COACH MEADORS: I thought the Atlanta team fought a hard game, the game was extremely long, 2:26 which tells me there was a lot of stoppage. Other than that I felt like we played hard enough to win the game; we just didn't win it. 

 Q. Seems to be a lot of frustration in your locker room. Are you feeling that as well? 
 COACH MEADORS: If you were the coach would you feel frustration after watchin' that game? That's what we felt. 

 Q. Coach, you actually led for most of the game, sometimes by double digit margins. What turned around in the fourth quarter that made the difference? 
 COACH MEADORS: Well, you know, short of getting fined for anything, there were a lot of free-throws taken in that game, 46 by Minnesota, 32 by us. You know, I just really don't understand some of the things that were being called. Not to say that they were wrong, but there were a lot of things that I disagreed with. That's part of the game. I felt like when we had the lead, we did things that would -- a quick shot, if they didn't go in, they scored, and I think that hurt us in the fourth quarter. 

 Q. Coach, could you discuss the performance of Angel McCoughtry tonight, 38 points as the WNBA Finals record. 
 COACH MEADORS: I didn't know it was a record but I know that Angel played very well tonight, she shot the ball well. We were able to get her in good positions where she could score. She is just a fantastic player. It's difficult to stop her. I thought she played extremely well from the beginning to the end. 

 Q. Coach, was there anything that you saw differently auto her part in the second half from the first? Did the Lynx defense change at all on her? 
 COACH MEADORS: No, I mean, defenses have a hard time stopping her; she weaves and bobs and jumps and she just makes shots. 

 Q. Marynell there are a lot of people who are trying not to say -- they don't want to get fined tonight. What do you need to do in Atlanta? 
 COACH MEADORS: They've got to come to Atlanta for two games and we will be ready for them. 

 Q. Coach, what do you think about what you got out of Erika tonight? 
 COACH MEADORS: She had 10 rebounds, and that certainly helped us, it did. 

 Q. Coach, I was going to ask you along the same lines, not just the rebounding but the pressure it took off of Sancho Lyttle, who scored the ball a lot, but the other question I had about your post play is by late in the game partly because of foul trouble, I would imagine, you were back to the smaller, quicker lineup. Was that strategic or --
 COACH MEADORS: No, it's as a result of fouls, just foul trouble. You look at our lineup and everybody's got 4, 5 or 6 fouls. When you're down one player already and you're playing with 10, then it does make a difference. 

 Q. Coach, Cheryl Reeve said that was the best performance she has ever seen out of Seimone Augustus tonight. What do you think of her performance tonight? 
 COACH MEADORS: I think she is a very good player, she warrants the best defensive player that most teams have to try to stop her or make things difficult for her, and that's one of the things we were trying to do is make it difficult on her scoring. 
 But if she gets loose and gets in a rhythm, it's very hard to stop her, she is such a great scorer. 
 THE MODERATOR: Coach, thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT