NCAA WOMEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: COLLEGE STATION
March 19, 2016
Rick Insell
Ty Petty
Alex Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Florida State - 72, Middle Tennessee State - 55.   
RICK INSELL: Well, I think more than anything, the third quarter, the end of the third quarter, kind of got away from us.  We missed a three, they hit a three.  I think they were up one then at that point and went up seven.  And that was big.  And then they came back out, we had a turnover and they hit another three.  And then they were on a roll and they began to play downhill.  And that was, I think, the difference in the ballgame.   
Of course, you look at the rebounding totals, we knew coming in we were going to have to rebound, and they out-rebounded us 22-41, and that's hard to overcome.  We knew they were big and strong inside.  They jump well.  They're very athletic, and we knew that we would have a problem.  But I thought our players battled.   
 Q.  Alex, Coach talked about you guys -- they were big and athletic down low, but you were still able to get 22 points.  What enabled you to get your offense?  
ALEX JOHNSON: I would say just putting it against the glass.  When my teammates were throwing it into me, it didn't matter the size or how tall they were.  I knew that I was able to get it around them and put it up.   
 Q.  Ty, you see Alex having that success down low, what's it like as a point guard to see that and to be able to keep going for her and knowing that she's going to put it up against the glass?  
TY PETTY: I'm very proud of how Alex has stepped up, especially as a freshman.  I mean, she's been a big priority to this program.  I mean, I'm just proud of how she handled it.  She did everything that Coach, all the coaches, had told her to, and she was very coachable, so I'm excited that I got her for one more year.   
 Q.  Ty, it was a great year, Florida State put up a great game.  What does this season define for you heading into your senior season?  
TY PETTY: It definitely shows what type of team we are.  We've grown a lot from the chemistry and just everything.  We didn't get here just by snapping a finger.  We worked and, I mean, we got here by our work ethic, coaches getting us ready.  I mean, it's definitely not over.  We're just going to get ready for next year, be able to finish strong.   
 Q.  Coach, same thing for Ty:  You guys had a great season.  This loss doesn't really define your season, but can you talk about the season as a whole and what this team accomplished this year?  
RICK INSELL: Well, the last two months has been very enjoyable.  They're very coachable.  They came to work every day, and they had passion for what they were doing.  They had passion for learning.  They took our scouting reports.  They took our practice plan to the game floor.  You know, we were -- just about every game the other team was stronger, taller, in some cases faster, but we were able to execute and win those games.   
And today they were taller, stronger and faster, but they were able to -- they were so athletic, they were able to cut off some of the passing lanes and get against some of our players, and it caused us a lot of problems.   
 Q.  You mentioned how big and fast and strong they are.  Alex Johnson was still able to get 22 points.  What does that mean for her for tonight and also going forward for the rest of her career?  
RICK INSELL: Well, I've said all along, Alex was going to be a great player.  I think that she gets in the weight room this summer, works on her strength and conditioning, works on her three-point shot, she's going to be -- the sky's the limit.  She's got great touch.  She's very intelligent.  She loves the game.  She's got all the intangibles.  Now it's going to be up to her to take it to another level.   
 Q.  You lose a couple great seniors.  What was your final message, not only to the seniors, but also to the locker room?  
RICK INSELL: Well, we lost three seniors, and Caroline played hurt today.  She's been playing hurt for about two weeks.  I was real proud of her.  She gave us some good minutes.  TiAnna's had a great -- the last two months has been her best two months of basketball.  We needed someone to step up, and she stepped up for us.  And then Bria Edwards has just been steady all year.  She rebounds the basketball, knocks down shots, passes the ball.  She does everything that you ask her to do, and we were very fortunate to be able to have her for two years, and I can't wait to see how she's going to do in the pros.  They always need shooters, and she's a shooter, I can tell you that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT