U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2014
Joshua Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  nd in the fairway for the most part, but then when I would stray off my intended path, I'd get the ball up-and-down.  I made a few clutch putts on the back nine which helped me.   Q.  What were the best couple up-and-downs you had?  JOSHUA MARTIN: I made a really good up-and-down on 15.  I hit it in the bunker and didn't hit a very good bunker shot to like 15 feet and made that.  Then on the first hole I had a good drive on the fairway and just missed the fairway and the lay-up shot and got a fly with my wedge.  Went way over the green and I made a 20-footer for par on the par-5, so that was good on the first hole.   Q.  When you shoot a 69, what kind of mindset now do you have going into the second round?  You know what you're going to face on the Highlands which is maybe just a little harder than this course.  JOSHUA MARTIN: Yeah, well, I mean, I played my prior round on both courses, so I'm pretty comfortable going into the Highlands Course, and I know what I have to do to get it done.   Q.  What challenges does the Highlands present as compared to the Riverside?  JOSHUA MARTIN: It's actually very similar to this, but I would say off the tee the fairways are just a little bit tighter.  They have some run offs around the greens that just fairway right into the water.  So it's got to be slightly more precise on the Highlands Course, but overall it's the same type of course.  You have undulating greens and it's going to be a good challenge for tomorrow.   Q.  What was your approach coming into this championship?  What did you expect of yourself?  JOSHUA MARTIN: Well, my last time I didn't play very well.   Q.  Where was that at?  JOSHUA MARTIN: It was at the North Carolina Amateur Match Play.  I was looking for a good tournament here to get my confidence back up.  So I set a goal for myself to make Match Play, and hopefully I can play well enough tomorrow to achieve that.   Q.  Does this give you more confidence what you did today?  JOSHUA MARTIN: Yes.  It reflects to how I've been playing in the past, and I'm excited about tomorrow.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT