CHICK-FIL-A PEACH BOWL: LSU VS OKLAHOMA
December 23, 2019
Neville Gallimore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  On the impact of not having a player like Ronnie Perkins.  
NEVILLE GALLIMORE: I mean, you know, that's our guy, but can't really worry about that right now. We've still got a job to do. Just trying to focus on that.   
 Q.  Are you confident in the other guys who will be playing in his place?  
NEVILLE GALLIMORE: Definitely got the most confidence in our group. You know, it's an opportunity to step up and we're just going to do what we've got to do.   
 Q.  As the leader of this defensive line, how much have you had to had conversations with other guys in terms of stepping up?  
NEVILLE GALLIMORE: Guys already know what the deal is with us, the standard that we have for us as a group. Despite what happens, we know what we got to do, and the primary thing is just focusing on the task at hand and make sure we play our best ball.   
 Q.  Neville, specifically on Jalen Redmond, what kind of growth have you seen from him this season?  
NEVILLE GALLIMORE: Definitely seen a lot of growth. Seen a guy that, you know, made the most out of the opportunity. Definitely stepped up for us. He's a guy that definitely really played big when we needed him the most, and just happy to see him develop as a player but also as a person.   
Just to see him kind of -- see all the opportunities that he has in front of him present themselves. It's a good thing to see.   
 Q.  Because of his pass rushing ability, is he a guy who could play a significant role on Saturday?  
NEVILLE GALLIMORE: Definitely. But all the guys -- we have so many guys on the defensive line just waiting for that opportunity. Like I said, it presented itself and guys are hungry. Again, guys are going to step up and make the most of their opportunities.   
 Q.  What have you guys seen from that LSU offensive line, specifically?  
NEVILLE GALLIMORE: Solid group of guys. Play well together. Well-coached and guys that want to do their job. Credit to them.   
 Q.  How is Ronnie Perkins handling what has happened? Lincoln said he traveled with you guys. How is he handling it?  
NEVILLE GALLIMORE: That's not really for me to speak about. He's doing fine.   
 Q.  Have you guys felt -- talking to an older guy, being younger, sort of being there for him?  
NEVILLE GALLIMORE: You know, that's my brother. Honestly, I'm not here to really talk about that. It is what it is.   
 Q.  What's the challenge of playing with Christmas in the middle of the week?  
NEVILLE GALLIMORE: It's a challenge, but more so just opportunity. Obviously, you know, you can't really get caught up with the other stuff. Obviously, a lot of us would love to be at home. But you have an opportunity to play a bowl game and to do what we do.   
So we're here. We're going to make the most of it. Obviously, nobody is going home. So got to get through.   
 Q.  The way the calendar fall this year, it's compressed. Does it feel different, the bowl prep this year, versus some of the other ones you've been through?  
NEVILLE GALLIMORE: I wouldn't really say that. Just because we knew what it was. Just, you know, once we got in into playoff ball, we knew again this is a business trip. You got to approach it as such and you just know that we're here for one thing and it's to play ball.   
 Q.  What have you seen out of Joe Burrow? When you watch him on film, what's kind of made him be a Heisman Trophy winner?  
NEVILLE GALLIMORE: He's a play maker, obviously. He's done a lot of really impressive things. So, again, you know, the primary thing is just trying to focus on what we could do and how we can have an impact and just focus on playing our best ball. He's a great player, obviously, the film shows that.   
But, you know, you got to play.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT