U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2020
Clay Feagler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. 1-under 70, you're in safely to the championship.  How do you feel you're playing right now?
CLAY FEAGLER:   I'm playing great.  These two courses are very demanding on flighting your shots and knowing your numbers.  I felt great out there the first two days.  When I got my tee time before the championship, I was a little hesitant with the wind, but played the practice rounds, got a good familiarity with the course and the wind, and I just played really good.  That's all I can say.
Q. Obviously you made a few birdies today, took advantage of a couple of the par-5s.  What were you doing well?
CLAY FEAGLER:   I think on the hard holes, I was basically just getting on the green, 30 feet and just two-putts, and then on the par-5s and 14, I was just trying to make sure I get up to the green close and chip up and make birdie.  I think on both courses you've got to take advantage of the downwind holes and you've got to play really steady on the into-the-wind holes, especially on the other course.
Q. Any long putts today that you thought were key?
CLAY FEAGLER:   Well, I made a birdie on 9, made like a 35-footer for birdie, and then I think just kind of keeping the ball in front of me and just plotting my way around the golf course.  I think getting to 16 in two was really good.  In the past rounds I went driver, 4-iron or 5-iron, and to get there in two and two-putt was really good.  When you play good the first round, you kind of just have to conjure up something as good and just kind of keep your head down and just keep playing.
Q. Did the wind pick up at all during your round?
CLAY FEAGLER:   Well, on Trails, I think 1, 2 and 3 are pretty exposed, and 15, 16, 17, 18 are really exposed.  But the rest of those holes in the interior, 6 to 13, it's really not that bad.  There's wind, but it's not as bad.
Q. Fifth Amateur in a row.  You got to round of 32 at Pebble.  What does all that experience give you going into tomorrow?
CLAY FEAGLER:   It gives me some good experience.  I haven't played much match play.  I played Colleton River, I lost in the first round, and then I got to the round of 32 at Pebble.  I think just keep putting yourself in that position and experiencing it is going to be key, but I'm just glad to make it through, and it's going to be a fun rest of the week.  I'm excited.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT