NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: MAPLE LEAFS v HURRICANES
May 23, 2002
Travis Green
Jyrki Lumme
Alex Mogilny
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You seemed to have your chances tonight?

JYRKI LUMME:   We had shots, and when you have that many shots, you should come up with a victory, especially when you only give up 14. 

Q.  Having several chances on the power play, why were you not able to convert? 

JYRKI LUMME:   We kept the puck alive pretty good.  We had some chances, but again, chances don't win anything.  You've got to put the puck in the net.

Q.  Did Pat Quinn's presence affect you at all tonight? 

JYRKI LUMME:   Probably, but at the same time, we knew that from the last game that we can't play like that, especially in the first period.  We were able to control the puck.  We did some good things, and I don't think they had so many scoring chances.  It felt like they were never in our zone but just a couple of times and they scored.  If we just keep the same things up, eventually, something's got to crack.  If we can keep doing those little things right and keep getting shots in at the same time, don't let them get too many shots, we can clean it up. 

Q.  They only had a one-goal lead for much of the game, but is the power play what hurt you?

JYRKI LUMME:   Well, especially when you give up the lead in the early going.  Sometimes you can go 0-for-8, but if you can score on a five-on-five, but right now, we can't get any goals.  It's just tough.  Right now, it feels frustrating. 

ALEX MOGILNY:   Seems like every time they had a rebound, instead of our guy, their guy was there and he picked the puck up.  The power play wasn't working. 

Q.  After three games, what's left to try and break that trap? 

ALEX MOGILNY:   Keep playing.  What can we do.   We'll give it everything we have, there's no question about that. 

Q.  Is there enough time to rest do you think? 

ALEX MOGILNY:   I think so.  I hope so.  Just taking it day-by-day.  Tomorrow is another day.

Q.  How frustrating is it when you put that many pucks to the net and still nothing goes in?

ALEX MOGILNY:   It is frustrating, but you've still got to find a way to get the puck in the net.  The power play wasn't working tonight, but we'll keep trying for the next game

TRAVIS GREEN:   Well, we played a much better game tonight.  Just tried to get the puck in the net, and in the end, it's frustrating.

Q.  Can you talk about Irbe's play?

TRAVIS GREEN:   Yeah, he's playing really well.  They played good team defense, and took a lot of second chances.  It's frustrating when you only get one goal in two games. 

Q.  Would you say there was an inspiration with your coach coming back? 

TRAVIS GREEN:   Yeah, it was great to see Pat back.   

Q.  Did you look back on the first period and say those three consecutive power plays, that's what got you?

TRAVIS GREEN:   Well, obviously, looking back, it's easy to say that.  The guys tried and just didn't go in the net. 

Q.  This has been one of your best shots, with the quality of chances you had, the sense of frustration has to be higher than ever before?

TRAVIS GREEN:   Yeah, I thought we played a much better game, but we've still got to play better. 

Q.  Any gas left in the tank?

TRAVIS GREEN:   Yeah, that was by no means a problem tonight.  It's an old cliche, but it's one game at a time, and just try to get a win. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT