NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 23, 2016
Gonzalo Fdez-Castano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The course is obviously playing a little different judging by the scores I've seen so far.  Can you talk a little bit about how tough it is out there.  
GONZALO FDEZ-CASTANO: You know what, you know what it takes, I don't know about the fairways, because I've, as I said, I was mostly in the rough today.  I finally hit four fairways, I really struggled off the tee, and this is one course where you really need to be hitting fairways so you can be as aggressive as this course let's you.  Today it's been a constant struggle for me off the tee, saving some really good pars, doing great recoveries, so I'm extremely happy with my level par round, to be honest with you.   
 Q.  Can you talk a little bit about the grind, because this is more of a grinder's golf course and you obviously grinded today to keep yourself in contention.  
GONZALO FDEZ-CASTANO: Absolutely, and that's what I like about this course, every time you break par on this course you know you're going to climb up that leaderboard.  Through the week it's only going to get harder, the fairways are getting firmer, the greens are getting firmer and faster, and as I said, it's compulsory to be in the fairway if you want to have any chance of attacking those flags and making birdies.   
So, hopefully I can straighten my tee shots.  I'm going to go to the range and work on that a little bit.  But I'm extremely happy with the way I hung in there, because, as I said, I didn't have my A game with me, I don't think I even had my B game with me today.  So it's been a good round, it keeps me in contention, which is the main thing, being in contention on Sunday.   
 Q.  What do you think it was why you were missing the fairway today?  
GONZALO FDEZ-CASTANO: You know, I'm not a morning person I hate waking up at 6 o'clock in the morning to play golf.  So it always takes me awhile to kind of get warmed up.  And once you start missing shots, all of a sudden the swing kind of gets a little faster, so I really have to focus on my rhythm out there.  And thank God I made a very good par save on 8.  I holed a good par putt there.  I think that was kind of the turning point for me in the round.   
Then I birdied 9.   
So, but as I said, it always takes me a little while when I play early in the morning to get it going.   
 Q.  A round like today, as scrappy as it was, has to give you confidence heading into the weekend, knowing that even if you don't have it, you can still hold it together.  
GONZALO FDEZ-CASTANO: That's the beauty about this course.  You know that you can have a bad day and go level par or even plus one and you know you're not going to go that far back on the leaderboard.  So, that's what I was thinking out there, just hang in there, make pars, and 5-under going into the weekend is going to be a good score.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT