NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 22, 2016
Gonzalo Fdez-Castano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Hot start.
GONZALO FDEZ-CASTANO: It is.
Q. What great round of 5-under in the afternoon.  Talk about the conditions and your play.
GONZALO FDEZ-CASTANO: The course is definitely drying up a little bit.  During the practice rounds and even yesterday morning it was playing soft, but with the weather we're having and the heat, it's definitely drying up.  So it's playing shorter, which is a good thing.  The greens are still receiving pretty good, so that's probably the reason the scores are still low.  But I think through the week the greens are going to firm up and I think it's going to get tougher.  Every time we play this course, any time you finish under par it's always a great score.  Of course, when I came this morning, I saw 6-under, a couple of 6-unders, 5-unders, that's not typical scoring when you're playing at this level.
Q. What one part of your game in particular was working for you today?
GONZALO FDEZ-CASTANO: In between my ears, that's what's working, that's what's been working the best for the last few weeks.  I think that's the key for me.  I'm hitting the ball all right.  I'm not going to say I'm hitting it great, because I'm not.  My recoveries were fantastic, every time I got in trouble today I got away with it.  I made great up-and-downs.  But as I said, I think the key to all this is the way I'm thinking on the course and the way I'm behaving on the course.  And it's been like that for a few weeks now and I'm happy it's happening now when it matters the most.
Q. Is there anything you changed in your thinking pattern?
GONZALO FDEZ-CASTANO: Absolutely.  I've been working with a Spanish psychologist Arturo Tenacio, based in Miami and he's been talking to me a lot, we have been working since April, there was a lot to fix and it took me awhile.  That's why it took me all the way to September, but it's been definitely worth it and if it wasn't for him, I'm convinced that I wouldn't be here talking to you guys right now.
Q. Does it feel different about having locked up your TOUR card and coming out here and practicing and playing with that kind of burden off your shoulders?
GONZALO FDEZ-CASTANO: Absolutely.  Last week when I was playing down the stretch I knew what was at stake and I was feeling the pressure and I was thinking to myself, you know what, you still have two tournaments to go, so if you can do it now the better, because I'm nervous, and I still have eight rounds to go and I don't even want to think about the guys who are playing who have that much at stake going into the last tournaments.  So, yes, definitely the swing feels freer, the putts, I can roll them better, be more aggressive, everything is easier when you got a TOUR card secured.
Q. Any reason why -- lots of good scores were shot early and you went out in the least favorable conditions, how were you able to do it?
GONZALO FDEZ-CASTANO: I played good, of course, I mean to shoot 5-under.  I think the par-5s were a little easier as they were playing shorter.  The course is playing shorter in general.  As I said, the greens were pretty receptive and my putting was good.  So, overall, I think it was a good rounds to be made.  My playing partner, Scott, he made 4-under, so overall I think this is one of those courses that if you struggle, nothing can go well and you struggle, you're going to have a hard time.  But if you're playing good, you can go low.  So, that's exactly what happened to me.
Q. Being at the home of Ohio State and Jack Nicklaus.  What's one thing you would like to ask Jack Nicklaus?
GONZALO FDEZ-CASTANO: I've been fortunate enough to spend time with Mr. Nicklaus at the Memorial and some other tournaments.  He's not only a true champion, but a gentleman.  He's got a tremendous family, great family and he's a mirror you would like to see yourself as in the future.  Of course, I wish I had 18 Majors like him, I would be happy with one.  But he's a true gentleman and that's what his life is about.  So, as I said, I've been lucky enough to meet him and spend time with him and it's a dream come true.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT