ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 7, 2015
Maegan Conwright
Sue Semrau
Ivey Slaughter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We'll start with an opening statement from coach and then take questions for the student‑athletes. 
COACH SEMRAU:   I just want to give a ton of credit to Louisville.   We started off really strong, shooting the ball very well, and they fought.   They battled.   They made it a 2‑point game and then Maegan Conwright, dang.   I mean just the guts, I mean it was like she had ice water in her veins when she stepped up and knocked down that three.   I thought that changed all the momentum.   I thought that when she really realized that we needed to be pushing the ball in transition, and we weren't doing a good job of that, and she said put it in my hands.   We put it in her hands and you see the result. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions? 

Q.   If my math is correct and as an old geezer it isn't always.   But first 15 minutes you're up 33‑9, the next 12 they outscore you 27‑7.   Last 13, you outscore them 26‑15.   What created that disparity insofar as the ebb and flow of the game?
COACH SEMRAU:   I mean it's an ACC semifinal.   Both teams made runs.   We had to answer.   I told the players in the locker room that Louisville led for zero minutes.   And it felt like they led. 
But for us to jump out and to be able to sustain their run, I thought that was ‑‑ and I thought both teams made runs, because they were playing great defense. 
Louisville played great defense during their run, we played great defense during both of our runs.   You're not an old geezer, Tom.

Q.   Both players, what does that feel like, that hasn't been said much that you've never been in this game before?
MAEGAN CONWRIGHT:   It's a great feeling just because we have never done this at this school before and to be the team to be able to bring them to the championship is a great feeling. 
IVEY SLAUGHTER:   Just going off of what Meg said, it is a great feeling and this is my second year.   And actually going to the championship and going through a game like this game, showing how hard you have to fight and never back down, it's just a great feeling to see the hard work actually paid off. 

Q.   Coach, I know it's been a long time since you played Notre Dame, but think back, tell me what this team learned from that game and how much you've improved since then. 
COACH SEMRAU:   We didn't have much of an identity during that game.   They are an excellent basketball team.   And I think they were just still developing their identity, so I think it's going to be a really different game than it was the first time. 
I know, obviously, there's a championship at stake.   But the most important thing is we get an opportunity to represent the ACC in the championship game.   And I think all of what we want through this tournament is to face the best competition, so we get ready for the NCAA tournament.   And we have had an opportunity to do that, just that, in this tournament. 

Q.   When we talked at the media day, there were a lot of questions about this team, they weren't ranked.   How did you get to be so dominant over the season?
COACH SEMRAU:   It's been a maturing process, it's been a ton of effort to become unified. 
It doesn't come easy.   When you have six new players, it was something that we had to really be intentional about. 
It starts with Maegan, a fifth year senior. 
Starts with Lauren Coleman, who you didn't see on the floor, but you see behind the scenes as somebody that really took hold of this and created an atmosphere that's very special for us this year. 

Q.   Maegan, talk about you being a senior, how special this game's going to be.   But also Notre Dame, obviously, has a good reputation, they have had a tradition of winning in women's basketball.   What do you think about being the upstart challenger? 
MAEGAN CONWRIGHT:   We focus on being the best team that we can be.   We want to play to our potential.   If we do that, then we have nothing else to say or nothing else to do.   It will show on the court.   That's what we try to strive for each and every time we step on the court. 

Q.   Could you address a little bit the timeouts during Louisville's run and your all‑ACC player getting very little touches during that time. 
COACH SEMRAU:   Well, the timeouts were to make sure that we were all on the same page.   They were switching their defenses and causing a bit of confusion, which we shouldn't have been confused.   But we got that settled. 
I thought that you look at what our team's done day in and day out, game in and game out.   It's always been someone different.   It doesn't matter ‑‑ Ivey stepped up today, 17 points.   That's not something that she does every day.   I wish she would, but, again, it's because we have such great balance on our team. 
If they're going to take one away, then we have an opportunity with someone else. 
THE MODERATOR:   All right.   Thank you.   We'll see you tomorrow. 
COACH SEMRAU:   Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT