WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: ROUND ONE
March 8, 2006
Francisco Campos
Paquin Estrada
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  It was an -- almost an expected victory over South Africa, but this doesn't mean that we don't have to make an effort tomorrow, right? 
 PAQUIN ESTRADA:  Well, in this case you have to win, and it was different.  There was an offensive -- the game, the first game was really good, and it definitely benefitted us to keeps us on our toes.  Now we have to continue and keep up our good play. 
 Q.  Paquin, tomorrow -- Karim Garcia was taken off -- or left the field today.  Do you think he'll be okay to play tomorrow?  Because he's a really important player for the Mexican team.  
 PAQUIN ESTRADA:  Well, he pulled a hamstring a little bit, and he it depends if he wants to play.  If he wants to play.  We'll try to keep an ice pack on him all night and make sure that he can play tomorrow, even though it might not be 100 percent. 
 Q.  Paquin, have you thought about the lineup?  Have you thought about the lineup for tomorrow?  Are you going to make any changes? 
 PAQUIN ESTRADA:  Well, I tried to usually have a catcher and player that work well together, and it would also depend on how Karim is doing.  If he feels good in the morning, I think I'll keep the same line up. 
 Q.  You made a last-minute switch today in the lineup flopping two players in the order.  Why? 
 PAQUIN ESTRADA:  Well, because I have to think who looks good.  I have to think who looks good on home, also if he's good at cutting off the swing.  And you don't have to do too much changes.  Sometimes you have to make whatever is necessary. 
 Q.  Talk about offense and also control of your own destiny.  Also the fact that now you're in control of your own destiny now that the USA team lost. 
 PAQUIN ESTRADA:  Well, I think it's a good opportunity.  I mean, we have to do what we have to do.  And we have to win in order to pass on to the next round. 
 Q.  Francisco, I have a question for you.  In the first three innings you were in control, and afterwards you started losing control.  What happened? 
 FRANCISCO CAMPOS:  I felt really good, but then there was a change.  There was a new pitcher, and the umpire wasn't giving enough time for warm-ups.  Then he walked a runner, and we are not also used to cold.  At some point -- and at some point, I got -- it bothered me.  And it was just a long inning. 
 Q.  You talk about putting together the battery for tomorrow with Loaiza.  You're still thinking of the same? 
 PAQUIN ESTRADA:  I'll have to think about it tonight and really think about it, get some possibilities, and they're both really good.  I still haven't made a decision.  I'll have to decide later tonight. 
 Q.  Paquin, is there any pressure on you, like permanent pressure? 
 PAQUIN ESTRADA:  Well, pressure, I wouldn't call it pressure.  I have been in baseball too long for that.  There is commitment.  Of course we are aware of our commitment, and we have to try to make the right decisions at the right moment. 
 Q.  I think that some of the batters have not really found the right pace or are sort of out of rhythm, out of beat.  Do you think they will find it during the tournament? 
 PAQUIN ESTRADA:  Well, there's still room for improvement.  Hopefully we'll have more time for them to show off their capability.  Nobody is going to be 100 percent, or at their 100 percent.  There would be improving little by little over time. 
 Q.  How important was Francisco to get off to a good lead, like that 5-run lead?  How important was that to him? 
 FRANCISCO CAMPOS:  Well, for me it's really very important, because I'm a free agent in the American sports arena.  And so for me, this has been an incredibly important showcase to show off my abilities.  And it's been extremely important for me to have this good performance opening the inning. 

 Q.  Has Mexico scouted out the Canadians?  What do you know about Francis?  Do you know about their stregths and weak points? 
 PAQUIN ESTRADA:  Well, we have had some people scout some information at least to give us some information about them.  And then, of course, on the field you have to make your own experience and find out what's really going on. 
 But we know that they have four left players, and so for tomorrow leave basically left pitchers, and I still have to make adjustments.  I'm pitching to the left.  I will have Loaiza, De La Rosa, Oliver and Rincon, and I will have to make the necessary adjustments.  


 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT