WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: ROUND ONE
March 7, 2006
Francisco Campos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
 FRANCISCO CAMPOS:  I believe that this tournament is really important, extremely important, both for the Mexican ball players and for baseball players all over the world.   
 We are extremely proud of it.  We feel extremely motivated, and we also consider that there's going to be a tremendous challenge.   
  Q.  With that in mind, can you talk about the team you face tomorrow, South Africa?  Do you much about them?  Is it sort of a mystery or -- you know, are they a mystery to you, or do you know anything about it?   
 FRANCISCO CAMPOS:  Actually, to us, it's a totally unknown team.  We don't know anything about them.  We don't know anything about their strength, their fortitudes.  We don't know if it's batting, if it's pitching, but we're going to play them as if it were any other important opponent.   
 Personally, I don't know anything about them.  They might know some things about us, because, I mean, if you watch baseball you know about the teams; you've seen the players in action.  But we don't know anything about them.  But, of course, we're going to play with the due respect of any opponent.    
  Q.  Talking of respect, the American team is considered the favorites.  They have such depth and strength.  Can you talk about that?  Do you feel like the Mexican team could upset them, perhaps even make the championship game?  How strong do you think your chances are of being the team to upset them, or any team upsetting them?   
 FRANCISCO CAMPOS:  Well, we have definitely seen the incredible quality of the U.S. team.  I've seen all of the stars, and I think that is really a factor that really inspired respect due to all their illustrious careers.   
 But of course, on the other hand, Mexico has come here with incredible will to succeed and to play really well with all the implications.  And we're going to try to beat an opposing team, and it is -- as I said, it is really something that inspired a lot of respect.   
 Maybe the Mexican team can give the surprise; we're going to give it our all.   
  Q.  Francisco, to have the success you've had in the Mexican leagues, just your opportunities with the Major Leagues in America, what is your opinion of the way things have gone there?   
 FRANCISCO CAMPOS:  Well, I've participated four times at  the training opportunities.  But so far I haven't really had the opportunity I'm looking for.  I've been sent to AAA branches, which is something that is not possible in Mexico.   
 I must say, in Mexico, I've been doing really well.  I've had a great career.  I've received all the titles that are available for a pitcher, and I still am waiting for this opportunity.   
 I believe that I could -- I'm convinced that I could do really well in any given team given the opportunity.    
  Q.  Francisco, how hard is it for a pitcher to face a team when you don't know any of the hitters or their strengths, weaknesses?   
 FRANCISCO CAMPOS:  Well, it's definitely very difficult if you don't know anything.  If you don't know the weak spots of the different players.  What are their strengths?  Are there strong runners?  Who is going to do the first string?   
 It's really difficult to play with this uncertainty regarding the opposeing team.  You don't know if maybe one of the players will have a good contact with the way you're pitching or they get a good swing, but maybe not.  Maybe what you're doing is not good for them.   
 You just don't know.  I will try to take it really easy until I start finding out.  The game itself will tell you little by little.  After the first time a player's up you will get a feel for it.  But regardless of all that, I'll just keep playing very intensely and I'll give it my all.   
 (Spanish.) I am looking at their faces.  Depending on the face they put on, depending on that, I'll pitch accordingly.  Of course, I'm kidding.   
  Q.  Last Saturday night in Tucson there was a tremendous atmosphere for Team Mexico, for the Diamondbacks I understand there will be many supporters of Team Mexico here today supporting the team.  Are you aware of that at all when you're pitching, and how does that affect your team?    
 FRANCISCO CAMPOS:  It is definitely -- we have a great atmosphere.  I know there's definitely something that speaks in favor of the Mexican team.  We have a really good harmony, a good team spirit.  You can feel it on the field, and it's incredible motivation both for the players on the field and the players waiting their turn.   
 And, of course, we've known each other for years already.  But the way they brought us together for this tournament I think has been really great, and we've bonded really quickly.  I think it will be a good result.   
 I would like to add something.  We have a great captain, Vinny Castilla.  I think that has been really important for the way the team has been playing.    
  
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT