MLB WORLD SERIES: NATIONALS VS ASTROS
October 25, 2019
George Springer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Going up against Sánchez tonight, what do you think has made him successful here recently? What is the key to get this offense going in an important game for you guys?  
GEORGE SPRINGER: He's extremely smart. He can move the ball around. He changes speeds from 90-plus to 70 and below. That's not easy to do. That's not easy to face.   
So, again, I think as an offense we're just going to have to look for a mistake, and if he makes it, we've got to hit it.   
 Q.  Alex said yesterday it just takes one game, one win to stop the bleeding, and AJ said today there's no gloom and doom in the clubhouse. Some thoughts about those things.  
GEORGE SPRINGER: Yeah, there is no gloom and doom. That's a really good team in the Nationals and they pitched well, they play well, they hit well. They did everything better than us. But I don't know why a lot of people don't give them credit. They played well. They beat us in our home park. It is what it is. And we move on. And, yes, obviously a big game. We'll see what happens.   
 Q.  Would you mind, if you don't mind, looking back on the fact that you broke that record that Lou Gehrig and Reggie Jackson had, most consecutive World Series home runs, now you're at five. What does something like that -- you're focused on winning, what does something like that mean to you?  
GEORGE SPRINGER: I mean, obviously those are two of the most historic names in the game. Iconic names. It's great to be amongst them. It's great to be in company like that.   
But at the end of the day, like I've said, I'd much rather win.   
 Q.  AJ did this before with a bullpen game potentially. If you have a bullpen game tomorrow, how much confidence do you have in your bullpen and the arms out there to get you through a game?  
GEORGE SPRINGER: All the confidence in the world. I think our bullpen hasn't gotten enough credit for what they've done, not just all year, but especially in these playoffs. Being able to kind of go blow for blow with Tampa, being able to go blow for blow with New York, they don't get enough credit for the stuff they've done. I have all the confidence in all those guys in that room. It doesn't matter who has the ball.   
 Q.  You said no gloom and doom. You've been down this road before, in '17, in New York and McCann and Beltran pulled everybody together. Who are some of the guys leading the way in that department right now and what do you think about this club you have handled adversity so well?  
GEORGE SPRINGER: Well, yeah, we've lost some games before but it's honestly not the end of the world. It's about getting to the next one, kind of doing anything we possibly can to understand that it's going to take all of us. And it's going to take a hit, a big pitch, a big play to get us right back in the ball game at any time.   
And guys like Jose Altuve, Justin Verlander are key in kind of reminding everybody of that. There's a lot that can happen, especially in that clubhouse. Guys believe in us. We believe in ourselves. We understand who we're playing. That's a really great team in the Nationals. We just have to do anything that we can to control it and we'll see what happens.   
 Q.  We had talked about Joe Smith getting into a World Series game, that being a big deal for him, as long as he's been in this league. Zack Greinke making his first appearance in a World Series game tonight. What do you anticipate from him and also do you guys enjoy watching him swing the bat?  
GEORGE SPRINGER: Yeah, you know, I think it gets lost in the magnitude of the game, the situation that for us as players this is unbelievable. This is awesome. You don't ever know if you're ever going to get to the World Series. You never know if you're going to play in the playoffs. That's the goal.   
So for us to have had that opportunity twice already in the last three years I think is obviously something special. Guys like Joe Smith who were hurt the last time he was in one, guys like Michael Brantley, it's awesome. I expect Zack to come out and be Zack and do what Zack can do. He can hit. He likes to hit. So we'll see what happens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT