AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: ASTROS VS RED SOX
October 13, 2018
George Springer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Astros - 7, Red Sox - 2
THE MODERATOR: Questions for George Springer.
Q. What's your approach with that at-bat in the second against Sale, bases loaded?  He's been a little wild and obviously the power that you've got too?
GEORGE SPRINGER: Honestly, it's get the at-bat to the next guy.  Do anything I can to head to first base.  It doesn't matter.
Anytime you're facing somebody like Sale, it's a grind from the first pitch on.  So it's just kind of one of those things where you grind out an at-bat and hope for something good to happen.
Q. Justin was just saying this team under Hinch, you guys don't care who the hero is.  On any night you just need a hero.  Tonight seems like a perfect example where it's 3-2 all of a sudden Reddick gets a homer and Yuli gets a homer, bit of a messy game.  You found a way to win.
GEORGE SPRINGER: Yeah, this is a clubhouse that believes in every guy.  Doesn't matter who gets the job done, just get the job done.  Pass the torch on to the next guy.
I know that goes the same way with the guys in the bullpen, the starting staff, the guys who are playing and then the guys who come into the game.  It's how can I be productive for the guys.  And it's a great thing to watch.
Q. You guys have proven you can win here at Fenway Park, which a lot of teams, even in the postseason have difficulty doing.  How important is it to win a Game 1 at Fenway knowing now that you guys have wrestled home field advantage back?
GEORGE SPRINGER: It's huge.  This is a tough place to play.  It's not easy by any stretch of the imagination.  It's an awesome environment all the time and these guys really feed off the home crowd, the home energy.  For us to come in here and get the first one is huge.  But you know what it's on to tomorrow.
I'm pretty sure those guys are going to be ready to go and ready to play in front of their home crowd.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT