AL DIVISION SERIES: INDIANS VS ASTROS
October 7, 2018
George Springer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Getting started with George, first question.
Q. Correa has been struggling at the plate, but obviously he still contributes to this team in a lot of different ways.  Can you kind of explain to someone who is out there, even though you're in the infield, what his presence is being on the field and obviously being very good at what he does at shortstop?
GEORGE SPRINGER: You know, he's huge.  He's a central part of this team.  It doesn't matter if he's hitting the ball well or not.
He's always due.  He's not the guy that I think has been happening to him, but to have him out there means a lot to us because he's our shortstop.  He's our guy.
He's been a mainstay in our lineup for three, four years.  So I know this is a pretty result-oriented time of the year.  But to have him in there means a lot to us.  And it's probably not easy to game plan around him as an opposing staff either.
Q. George, what's the feeling of the team being up 2-0?  You can eliminate them tomorrow.
GEORGE SPRINGER: It's always a good feeling to defend our home field against a very, very, very good Cleveland team.  That's a great offensive lineup, a great staff.  And for us to go in and score some runs and hold them to just a few, it was obviously big.
And, obviously, for us, it's just go and play the game and enjoy the day.  We understand the position that we're in.  Just go play, and whatever happens, happens.
Q. Alex said after Game 2 you've got to keep your foot on the gas.  Obviously, you never take your foot off anyway.  Is that something you have to remind yourself?  How do you look at that?
GEORGE SPRINGER: Yeah, I mean, with the lineup that they have over there, the staff that they have, a lot can happen and a lot can happen quick.  So for us, it's playing our game, staying within ourselves and just kind of controlling the things that our team knows how to control.
I think we saw it before when New York was down two and they came back on us there and won all three in New York and all that stuff.  So it's never over till it is.  But for us, it's just go out, play our game, and just stay in our dugout.
Q. George, after seeing Clevinger twice in the regular season, what makes him different from what you saw from Kluber and Carrasco in the first two games?
GEORGE SPRINGER: He moves the ball around well.  He attacks you with his fastball, has a little bit of a slower slider that can throw you off balance some.  But he comes at you.
He's obviously had a heck of a year.  It doesn't matter if we've seen him once, twice, 20 times.  He's always hard to face so I expect a good battle.
Q. As a guy who is close to Jake Marisnick, what's his psyche now that he's on the field and playing, as compared to last year, when he had to kind of be a spectator for the whole playoffs?
GEORGE SPRINGER: Jake is full throttle from the time he gets here to the time the game is over.  I think for any position player or guy that's a very, very intricate part of this team, who was hurt last year, and now he's active and he can play, he wants to contribute.
So he is, I mean, jacked up, to say the least, is kind of the best way to describe it.  He's the outfield closer.  You bring him in, and you pretty much just say, hey, man, I got the line.  Go get everything else.  Because he is, he's ready to go.
He wants to catch everything.  He wants the big hit.  So I'm glad he's able to play this year, because he's an elite defender.  I mean, he can fly and he can hit the ball out of the ballpark.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT