ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY AMERICAN EXPRESS
August 13, 2007
Carling Bassett-Seguso
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Welcome, everybody, and thank you for your understanding on the change of schedules.  We're very happy to have with us today the highest ranked Canadian in the history of professional tennis for our country.  Ranked as high as number 8 on the Sony Ericsson WTA Tour, Carling Bassett-Seguso.   
  
  Q.  Hi, Carling.  Tell us what you're doing these days?   
 CARLING BASSETT-SEGUSO:  What I'm doing these days?  I'm actually doing the same thing I did as a junior as an adult.  I'm training my kids, actually.  That's why I really, nobody's really seen me in the last 15 years here in Canada.   
 Because my 19-year-old's going to UCLA on a full tennis scholarship.  And my daughter's going to be a junior, and I have a 14-year-old back in my home base in Bollettieri in Bradenton, if you can believe it.   
  
  Q.  Do you foresee them getting on the pro circuit as well?   
 CARLING BASSETT-SEGUSO:  You know, I thought my oldest son, Holden, he was very focused last year I think it was either at the Ericsson or the NASDAQ, he did very, very well.  He had a pretty big contract, and he decided he wanted to go to school, and he got heavily involved in music at the same time.  So he's kind of transitioning into a couple of things.   
 But my daughter is strictly doing it for college, which I love.  And she wants to go into the orphanage and helping kids, and she's very talented.  And I don't know with the younger one because he absolutely lives, dies, and breathes the tennis.  So we'll see.  We'll see.   
  
  Q.  What do you think of the state of the game?  There's quite a few women who have unfortunately pulled out, Carling, what do you think of that happening here?   
 CARLING BASSETT-SEGUSO:  Well, it's such a shame.  I can't believe how unbelievable this tournament is.  Since I've arrived, I am so impressed with the Rogers Cup, you know, what American Express has done.  Even my clinic yesterday was just so well done, and all these extra bonuses.  I mean, this Aveda thing, and I think they have gone to such extremes.  You know, it's a shame that these players haven't come.   
 But then again, it gets so funny around the US Open because it is such a big tournament.  And right before the US Open, you know, a lot of times sometimes these things kind of happen.  But it's really a shame, because this is a fabulous tournament, and I've been to a lot of women's tournaments.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Carling will be participating in the Rogers Cup Tennis Legends presented by Acura.  The first format is the singles between John McEnroe and Jim Courier, followed by the mixed doubles with John, Jim, Carling, and Anna Kournikova.  We'll conclude with the formal questions.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT