FED CUP - BELGIUM vs USA
November 20, 2003
Martina Navratilova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions.


Q.  Lisa, you have had more partners in Federation Cup than Elizabeth Taylor.  How is the current partner?  What is that like? 

LISA RAYMOND:  It's an honor to be on the court with her.  We're actually going to team together and play next year together.  Really looking forward to that.  You know, to represent your country is one honor, but to represent your country with Martina Navratilova is pretty amazing. 

Q.  First time you played Federation Cup in eight years, Martina.  Were you invited?  Did you volunteer? 

BILLIE JEAN KING:  She earned it. 

MARTINA NAVRATILOVA:  I volunteered and I was chosen. 

Q.  She volunteered?  You chose her?  Is this something you had on your mind in?

BILLIE JEAN KING:  Yes, I've had it on my mind probably since January because I knew Martina made another commitment to play this year.  I knew once she made a full -- once I was really clear she made a full commitment again, she would go up the rankings once she started playing a lot of matches, so I kept track of her rankings off and on.  I think at The Open, you kind of like said, "Billie, I'd love to play Fed Cup.  Have you thought about me?"  "Yeah, I've thought about you.  Don't worry.  You're right in there."  I also always talked to Lisa, who is my go-to player for doubles always, who she thought she'd like to play with.  She said she'd love to play with Martina because Martina is the third highest ranking American in doubles.  At the time when I was looking at the rankings, she was third. 

Q.  Yesterday we asked the captain of the American team who would you like to see in the final the opponent. 

BILLIE JEAN KING:  Ask the players.  I don't care.  Whoever deserves it. 

Q.  Lisa, can you talk about your singles performance here?  You obviously played really well in both matches. 

LISA RAYMOND:  I feel good.  It feels great to be able to come out.  I haven't played a live singles match since Spain.  I think that was '99 or 2000.  It feels great to be able to get a couple wins for the US, you know, especially to clinch today's match and to lead us into the final on the weekend.  I'm really looking forward to that.  I'm looking forward to a day off tomorrow, just preparing for Saturday. 

Q.  The spectators were pretty loud today.  Was it noisy for you?  Did it disturb you? 

LISA RAYMOND:  I think it was fine.  You know, I think that's all part of Fed Cup, to come out here and have a loud, rowdy atmosphere.  That makes it even more exciting.   You know, obviously I guess it depends on who we play.  If we are to play Russia on Saturday, I'm sure the crowd will be very vocal.  I think this would be good preparation in case that were to happen. 

Q.  How did facing Elke as opposed to Kirsten, how did that change your last-minute preparation? 

LISA RAYMOND:  About five minutes before we walked out there, I thought I'd be playing Flipkens.  Obviously, watching Meghann play her for all of three hours yesterday, you know, I think I had a pretty good game plan against her.  I had never really watched Elke play much.  Certainly I've seen Kim play plenty.  You know, I think it was just a matter of going out there and kind of just playing loose and just getting rid of my nerves there, just playing my game.  I think I did a good job of that. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT