LPGA LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY J GOLF
April 18, 2013
Jane Rah
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Even par today.   Overall, were you happy to be able to get out of there with a solid round considering the wind this morning?  
JANE RAH:   Yeah, definitely.   I knew from the front nine I would have to take advantage just because it plays a lot easier.   
And I did.   I made three birdies on the front.   The back nine I played the same.   It was just hard to maneuver around with the wind, so I just tried to manage and not make such a big score.  
   
 Q.   Do you think there will be an advantage to the fact that you played yesterday in the afternoon when it was calm and then this morning when the winds might not have picked up?   It sounds like this afternoon it's going to be pretty breezy.   
JANE RAH:   Yeah, in that case, definitely.   It was a little breezy yesterday.   I mean, I think the girls in the morning got really, really huge advantage.   Obviously it's going to even out today.  
   
 Q.   Overall, how have you been feeling about your game?   Solid first round yesterday; another good round today.   
JANE RAH:   I've actually hit it better than I have this week, but finally my short game is coming around.   
That's been my struggle throughout the whole beginning of last year.   I had three weeks off because I didn't play in Kraft, so I just chipped and putted my mind out.   
So it's definitely paid off.   I'm thankful things are coming together now.  
   
 Q.   Where did you spend your three weeks?  
JANE RAH:   In Torrance, California.   Just at home.  
   
 Q.   So good time to kind of work on that short game and get it going.   
JANE RAH:   Yeah, I took advantage of the time off.   It was much needed for me.   
   
 Q.   As you look ahead to the weekend, what are the keys to this golf course to keep you up near the lead?  
JANE RAH:   I think I'm just going to have to manage the wind as best as possible.   I'm going to have to take what I learned from the last two days and try to apply it.  
I've been practicing a lot in the wind at home gearing up for this week, but it's a lot different playing in a tournament, you know.  
So I think if I can just not let the wind affect me so much.   You know, if you're by the green you can get up and down.   It's not such a big green, so...  
   
 Q.   Coming into your second year on tour, is there more of a comfort level?   
JANE RAH:   Yes.   A huge comfort level.   I just know what's going on.   I know the golf courses.   So like especially this week, I just play nine and nine.   I don't have to kill myself trying to play all 18 holes.  
I'm able to take it a lot more steady and just I know what's going on so I don't feel as bad or looking like I'm lost.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT