BIG EAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 6, 2020
Jim Crowley
Alyssa Geary
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Providence - 49, Georgetown - 46
JIM CROWLEY: Thank you. A credit to Georgetown, you know, they play really hard. Certainly you can tell Barnes didn't want her career to end.
I thought this game looked like a game of two teams that have played last week, both knew each other, and I thought there was some nerves at the start.
While, you know, we didn't rebound at the level we would hope, and we certainly could do a better job taking care of the ball, I thought our defense was really consistent. And we did a good job of regularly contesting shots and staying with possessions, even when we gave up offensive rebounds, even when we had those turnovers. To defend like that is a really impressive thing.
Just proud of our group. This year hasn't always gone the way we wanted it o to. They showed resolve and togetherness to knock it down at some moments where they could have throughout the became. Really proud of that. You know, going to enjoy this for about five minutes.
Q. Career high in blocked shots for you. Six. Can you describe what you were seeing out there?
ALYSSA GEARY: I know that before we were looking at the Big East book, and me and Mary were like I wonder, you know, had a little competition between us, who could get the most blocks. Coach stresses a lot to just wall up and let the ball come to you.
You know, that's what I tried to do. I just tried to wall up. I really didn't try to block anything, and the ball came in my hands, and I knew what I needed to do.
Q. I know looking ahead to tomorrow, a top ranked team, what are you seeing? You said you'll enjoy this for five minutes. What do you see looking ahead to that match-up?
JIM CROWLEY: You know, DePaul is obviously very dynamic offensively and very underrated defensively. You know, we're banged up, and it doesn't matter. We have to go out and play. We have to find a way to control tempo. They're great at extra possessions, and, you know, we have to do a better job of not turning it over and rebounding.
DePaul is coming in a little feisty, I'm sure, from how they ended the year, and they know they need wins to keep that home game.
As I said, there's a lot of good things going for them. The good thing going for us is we get to play again. We're going to go out, do what we do, play really hard and look forward to the experience.
Q. Coach, you used the word resiliency to describe this team. How did that manifest itself in the last two minutes of the game?
JIM CROWLEY: I would say throughout, Mary goes down at the start of second half, every time we got it to eight or nine, they hit a few shots. We had the turnover where the game looked kind of in control and, you know, we don't -- we give the ball back to Earlette before she's all the way in, they score off of that.
You know, their voices were a lot more prevalent as we were having huddles and time-outs and stuff, and that's growth for us. So just to kind of stay focused on what they needed to do to get to that point I thought was really resilient, and especially in some other cases, and against Georgetown. A lot of these folks, whether it is was our first game against Georgetown or all three last year had had some fourth quarter issues against them. To do it against them in this stage I thought was a good growth of our resiliency.
Q. Any update on Mary? Obviously she's out of the rest of the game, tomorrow do you think --
JIM CROWLEY: We're a pretty good hockey school, so I'm going to go with the hockey lower body injury and see where it goes. We have an incredible athletic trainer. You know, it's a short turnaround, so we'll see.
Q. Coach, DePaul, how much harder is it for you now to play them in their hometown?
JIM CROWLEY: Well, fortunately -- well, not fortunately, we did that before, about a month ago, and that didn't go great. We have played in this arena a couple of times. We have played them in this arena.
We'll prepare for them. We know, you know, the great thing about Doug and DePaul is they are who they are, and they do it very well. We have to make sure we play really hard. We have to make sure we grow from this, you know, and see where it ends up.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT