NEW ENGLAND REVOLUTION MEDIA CONFERENCE
July 21, 2018
Brad Friedel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








New York Red Bulls - 2, New England Revolution - 0
Q. Your thoughts on how this one played out?
BRAD FRIEDEL: Well, not quite like the last two.  The last two, we were by far the better team.  I thought this one in the first half, there was nothing in the game at all.  In the second half, again, it wasn't that entertaining of a game, but we were definitely in it.
Claude Dielna made a terrible mistake.  It was a needless free kick to give away.  We didn't defend it and from that point on, we were trying different things to try to stick on as many strikers as we could to try to get the goal back and it never came.  I don't think in the second half, we put the ball down and passed it the way that we could.
I thought we built ourselves into the game nicely to be able to do that but give Red Bull credit, they performed pretty well in the second half.
Q. So was that kind of the issue for you in terms of not creating quite as many chances as the last two games?  Obviously had the one big chance in the first half with Teal, but seemed like you struggled to generate any real quality looks from there?
BRAD FRIEDEL: They created zero, also.  So it was just, when you play New York Red Bull, they hit long balls and they look for the second ball and they have Wright-Phillips, he's very good on crosses and tries to break but they don't break you down with any intricate passing.
If we look at the run of play, I think they probably had a couple of chances; we had a couple of chances.  I mean, it wasn't an end-to-end game.  It was all played in the middle of the midfield.  There was just nothing in there.  It was a needless foul to give away and we didn't defend.
Q. Two weeks until the next game.  Is there an opportunity here to reset?  How do you approach these two weeks ahead of the Orlando games?
BRAD FRIEDEL: We said good teams never lose two in a row.  Here we are with three, three losses in a row.  I think it's a big mentality check for us as a staff and us as a team and the whole.
The bye week, you know, maybe comes at a good time where we can address some things.  We're going to get a couple new faces in, which will help, as well.
And it's nothing more to it other than hard work and get back out there and we need the three points against Orlando.  We'll assess the game and we'll go over it but we're going to have to stay positive.  We have a lot more football to play and we'll try to get as many points as we can.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT