NCAA MEN'S 2ND & 3RD ROUNDS: PITTSBURGH
March 19, 2015
Chris Holtmann
Kameron Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 BUTLER - 56
  TEXAS - 48
 
MODERATOR: Once again, we'll start with an opening statement from Coach Chris Holtmann, move on to student-athletes.  Coach?   COACH HOLTMANN: Well, I can't say enough about our guys.  This is kind of who they've been all year.  We've been able to grind out a lot of wins.  We have a lot of respect for Texas, Coach Barnes and their ability.  They obviously made it very difficult for us to score the ball.  We knew they would, particularly around the rim.  And they did that the entire night.  It was a back and forth game. I thought we were able to make just enough plays right before the final media to create a little bit of distance.  But obviously, it was a heck of a game and Taylor certainly bothered us there late.  I can't give our guys enough credit for grinding out this one.  To have five field goals in the second half and come away with the win says a lot about them.   MODERATOR: Questions for the student-athletes.   Q.  Kameron, you guys get out-rebounded significantly.  You don't shoot the ball well.  How did you get this win?  KAMERON WOODS: Well, they're a big team so we knew that the battle on the glass was going to be something that we needed to not necessarily control but something that we needed to kind of keep in reach.  They're so big, they have so many long athletes down there.  It was going to be tough for us to win it like we usually do. We just tried to make everything tough for them.  We tried to pack the paint, keep Isaiah out of the lane and just contest everything.  I think that's what we did.  They missed a lot of shots that during the year they've missed, and we were able to get rebounds when we needed them. I mean, it's all kind of so fast, I haven't really been able to think about it.  But we just fought.  That's what we do.  We just fight and grind them out.  We knew it was going to be a grind and that's what we tried to make this game.   Q.  In your starting lineup, I think everybody except Roosevelt played at least 36 minutes.  In the second half, you outscored them by three times what you did in the first half.  Seemed like you came on stronger in the end.  How important was conditioning or stamina?  Why were you all be able to be on the floor for a significant amount of time and still play better at the end there?  KAMERON WOODS: I think we're a well conditioned group.  Something we do in practice, we always get up and down the floor, make sure our legs are ready for however many minutes we play.  Rose was the only guy who didn't reach 30.  I think Kelan stepped in and did a really good job for him.  He guarded really well.  He was able to give us some timely buckets.  We have guys out there who know what's on the line. I think for me and Barlow, we don't know when our last game is going to be, so it's almost like your legs are just numb because you don't feel any of that type of stuff.  All you know is what's right there in front of you. So I think that type of energy fed into all the other guys on the floor and we talked about it at halftime, that we played good in the first half.  But good's not going to be good enough to beat a team like that.  So we knew what we had to do so we just tried to go out there and get it done.   MODERATOR: Anyone else for the student-athletes?  Gentlemen, congratulations.  You're good to go. Questions for Coach Holtmann.   Q.  Coach, defensively, how did you limit -- they had four big bodies and they combined for eight points.  How did you do that schematically?  COACH HOLTMANN: We really tried to work on working them outside their sweet spot and committing to team coverage with their low post guys.  We were certainly concerned about that, Tom, going into it. They've got multiple bigs that can, if they get it in the area they'd like to get it in and can certainly make plays. So I think for the most part, our guys were able to get them off their sweet spot.  And our team approach, I think, was good for the most part.  We had a few slip-ups.  For the most part, we made them work.  Anything they threw in, for the most part, we made them work.   Q.  What's the deal with Rose?  COACH HOLTMANN: I think he's being examined right now.  He did have a little Willis Reed moment there.  And I think we're not sure at this point.  I wasn't sure right now -- I don't even know if I'm sure on that, Tom, but obviously, he wanted to play and I know he's going to want to play on Saturday, but we're going to do what's in the best interest of him and his health too.   Q.  The last thing for me, you're facing a totally different team now, from the nation's best defensive team to the nation's second best offensive team.  So what's the challenge there from a mindset?  COACH HOLTMANN: As we were preparing for potential teams we were going to play before the NCAA tournament, one of our assistants said, whatever we do, let's try not to get matched up with a rim protecting team before the brackets came out. So, you know, obviously Texas rolls up there.  We check Pomeroy and they're the number one shot blocking team in the country.  We didn't get our wish there. Having said that, Notre Dame is terrific.  They really spread you out.  They are completely different so they're going to present a number of challenges we're going to have to respond to with their ability to spread you out.   Q.  Chris, I know it's a little sudden, but five months ago you were an interim coach.  Now you've just won an NCAA tournament game.  Can you explain what that all feels like?  COACH HOLTMANN: It's emotional.  It is, Dana.  It's been a ride for sure.  Every time I go in the locker room, and I genuinely mean it, I say there's not a group I'd rather do this with, this journey, this season, than with this group. They have embraced, certainly, this whole dynamic, this new dynamic for them.  They've embraced it.  We've went through a lot of times in the locker room that have been really special and I just can't say enough about everyone that's in that locker room, how they've embraced this.   Q.  Special moments.  What was it like with this one?  COACH HOLTMANN: It was special.  I see my wife crying and my daughter bouncing around.  She has no idea what just happened.  She's four.  And I see -- as I've said, I think when you're -- I was asked this earlier.  Certainly, when you're a head coach, you're excited for yourself.  You're really excited for your team and you're really excited for those people who feel a part of this.  Alumni, boosters, fans, faculty members, to see them smile and get to spend a few more days enjoying their team makes it really special.  It really does.   MODERATOR: Anyone else for Coach Holtmann?  Coach, thank you.   COACH HOLTMANN: Thanks, guys.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT