WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 28, 2021
Scottie Scheffler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  MICHAEL BALIKER:   We would like to welcome the runner-up at the Dell Technologies Match Play, Scottie Scheffler.  I know it was a tough end there, but making it, going the distance in this event and making it to today, I mean, I guess as you look back on this week, what do you think you would be most proud of.
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Yeah, I think I'm proud of the way I fought all week.  My game was trending in the right direction pretty much the entire time, and this afternoon was really the first time I didn't feel like I played my best -- or not didn't play my best.  I think this afternoon was probably my worst round out of the last four, I think.  So I grinded it out.  I fought really hard and I just wasn't able to make the putts this afternoon.
 MICHAEL BALIKER:   Then just briefly before we go to questions, as we exited the 17th green, I think the support out there was unbelievable and if you could just kind of comment on how much you really felt that and over these, this past week.
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Yeah, for sure.  Ton of energy from the fans.  It was a lot of fun having them out there.  They kept me going all week.  Definitely encouraged me to keep fighting and it was so much fun having people out there again hooting and hollering again.
 MICHAEL BALIKER:   We'll take questions, please.
 Q. It's a long week, but why do you think you didn't play to your standard in the afternoon?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   I just couldn't get really get anything going.  I got a few weird breaks at the beginning of the round and then a few silly shots here and there and just didn't make the putts.  A couple of misreads.  Can't really put my finger on it, it's golf, it's a hard game, you can't always play your best.  But I did what I could with what I had today.  It just wasn't enough.
 Q. Then on, of the putts that hurt the most, I guess, 12 or 14?  Feels like 12 would have been a huge steal.
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Yeah, those are the putts that I've been making all week up until this point.  It seemed like every time I had an opportunity like that I was pouring those putts in.  Today, just didn't fall.  I hit my line on 12.  14 probably started a touch right and just didn't go in.  It happens.  I felt like I approached each shot mentally the way I needed to and then just didn't perform.  So as long as I stick to my routine and just keep things rolling I'm sure I'll make those putts in the future.
 Q. If you look at the way you played the par-5s, you kind of left the door open and yet every single time you kind of halved the hole and kept things going.  Did that actually provide you a little bit of motivation?  I know your game was off but did that kind of keep you going?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Yeah, for sure.  I had a really good save at the beginning of the round.  I got that weird bounce, I think it was 6, that terrible bounce off the tree that went against the fence, made a great par there, and then I tossed one away own the next hole, but I got things back in check pretty quickly.  I just wasn't able to make any birdies this afternoon.  I couldn't really get that spark that I needed, and I gave myself some opportunities, just wasn't able to make the putts.
 Q. Is there something to be said in this particular format that just doing enough to get by is more important than, I know you said that this was probably your worse round, but I know there's rounds sometimes where you just don't play your best golf and you get the win.
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Yeah, I would say the beginning of the week I did not have my best stuff and was able to just squeeze out wins, make the important putts at the right time, especially this morning.  I did not feel like I was playing too great, but I made that huge putt there on 17 and was able to close that round out.  And I think I did that pretty much every time this week until the last match, and I mean, that's golf, that's what happens.
 Q. You said your game's trending in the right direction, and you got next week.  You're playing in San Antonio, same deal, crowds will be backing you and everything.  Does that make you more excited to get to Augusta, knowing you played there in the fall, you're trending in the right direction?  Does that make you more excited for what you have coming up in a couple weeks?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Yeah, for sure.  I didn't really feel great with my game leaving THE PLAYERS.  My swing did not feel very good.  But this week hitting a lot of really good shots under pressure definitely gives me some confidence going forward in these next two events.
 Q. What are the two of the biggest things you take away from this as you move forward?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   I think one of my biggest takeaways is most of the week I performed when I needed to.  Obviously this last match I didn't perform there towards the end.  But up until that point when I really needed to make a putt or hit a really nice shot I did that.  So a lot of confidence going forward performing under pressure and especially match play, just the guys I had to go through this week, a lot of talent out here and to make it to the finals there is definitely some confidence going forward.
 Q. You mentioned that you like match play.  Do you think you can elaborate on what it is about the format that fires you up and makes you play so well?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   For me, it's really simple.  You just got to beat the guy that's in front of you and I really, really hate losing.  (Laughing) and I'm pretty pissed off right now.  And so I hate a this feeling and I'll do anything in my power to not have to feel this way again in match play.  So for me it's just I really, really do not like to lose and I think that's why I tend to perform well, just because there's one person in front of you and I don't like to lose.  I like to win.  And yeah, that's how it goes.  But tip the cap to Billy.  I'm happy for him.  Even though I'm mad, I'm happy for him.
 Q. Because you have that combative nature and you're really good when there's one person in front of you, do you ever wish that golf was more of a sport where this happened more often?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   I think we have a good balance.  It's nice to have this tournament.  We have a lot of team events in which there's plenty of match play, and so I think there's, I think we have a good balance right now.  It's nice to kind of have this event mixed in and stroke play is still the same.  When you put yourself in contention, it's almost more fun, you get to beat a few more people.
 Q. Is your confidence that you take from this, is it something that you think will help you in big tournaments like the Majors, something that you can draw on?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Yeah, I think early in my career I've already seen myself perform in big moments and big events and I look forward to continuing to do that far into the future.  I think this week is definitely a little bit of a confidence boost.  I'm obviously unhappy with how it finished but definitely some confidence moving into the next two events.
 Q. And I know it's real far out, but do you even allow yourself to entertain thoughts of maybe making the U.S. Ryder Cup team?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Yeah, obviously, I want to be on that team.  It's not going to cross my mind when I'm out on the golf course because that's, what is it March?  Six months?  Yeah.  Six months away.  So we got a lot of golf, a lot of big tournaments coming up, and that's way in the distance.
 Q. But I think beating Poulter and Rahm, two heavy weights like that, surely wouldn't hurt your case any, would it?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   No.  No, I don't think -- I think winning any match isn't going to hurt my case.
 Q. You talked about how you like Billy and how close your relationship is.  He's one of your favorite guys to be out there with.  Does that make it odd when you're in this type of situation, a match play situation?  It's funny Paul Azinger get better kept saying, yeah, these guys are happy and hugging and friendly.  Does that take away from the juices or does that actually make it just a little easier for you to kind of play your game?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   I like beating my friends.  I don't know how you guys feel (laughing).  Beating my friends is fun.  I think I'm pretty cordial with most of the guys out here.  I mean, I had a lot of fun with Ian.  I had a lot of fun with Jonny and Kuchar as well and most of the guys I played this week.  I feel like I get along with most of the guys out here really well.  Billy is definitely one of my favorites out here and happy to see him win, but it's very fun to beat your friends.
 Q. In terms of not being able to find a spark or make a putt or not having your swing the way you wanted to and you still take it 17 holes, do you take anything out of that?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Yeah, I think -- I did a good job staying patient today.  I didn't really force things.  I think really the only time I kind of tried to force something in there was probably on the par-5, 12.  But other than that, I stayed real patient all day.  I didn't get ahead of myself.  I gave myself the opportunities that I needed to without my A game and I just wasn't able to get it done.
 Q. What did you force on 12?  Which shot are you talking about?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   The second shot into the green.  I wasn't as comfortable as I wanted to be with the wind and I didn't commit.  I kind of just tried to force one in there without really thinking and that was probably just really the only mistake that I think where I just didn't approach the shot appropriately.  Other than that, I approached every shot the way I wanted to today.
 Q. You talked or I heard on TV, anyway, about not getting through the ball.  Was that a problem and is that hard to fix in the middle of a round?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Not really.  I mean, that's just lack of commitment on that golf shot.  Other than that, everything's fine.
 MICHAEL BALIKER:   Thank you, Scottie, we appreciate it.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT