THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 23, 2020
Scottie Scheffler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. How is your caddie?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   We think he's going to be all right.  He said he'll know more in the morning, depending, this type of injury, it depends what it looks like and feels in the morning.  We'll see.  I don't know what to think right now.  Hopefully he'll be able to go next week, but I'll do some preparations tonight just in case he can't, so I'll figure something out.
 Q. Can you take us through what he suffered?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   We're walking up to the green on 9 and it's kind of a little blind shot, 30 yards to the pin and we're both curious where the ball is.  I'm like, oh, it's here, and as I say that, he jumps to see where the ball is and immediately he goes down.  And luckily it's high up on the calf; it wasn't his Achilles.  At first he said he heard something pop, so mind starts to wander to dangerous places, but hopefully he'll be all right.
 Q. How did that affect your play over the back nine?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Yeah, I rely on him pretty heavily on the course.  He does a lot for me out there.  It was different for me getting my own numbers and stuff.  Seems like I was guessing on the way in because it was swirling pretty bad.
 Tried to refocus.  I was definitely rattled on 10.  Mind was all over the place.  Thinking about him and hoping he's going to be all right.  I settled down after that and played good the last few holes.
 Q. Coming off the high of the 59 on Friday, how do you feel about the way you played over the weekend?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   I feel like I played a solid round yesterday.  I just made too many mistakes, and today got off to a low start and didn't make many putts.  I put myself in a good position going into the weekend.  Didn't play well enough, but looked like I needed something pretty cool to catch up to DJ.
 Overall, I'm happy with how the week went.  Obviously a little disappointed not to win, but a good week and good start to the playoff.
 Q. All the way to Atlanta --
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Yeah, I think I was 4 going into this week and I didn't want to focus on getting into Atlanta because I don't think I needed to do that much.  Like I don't know exactly what it would have taken, maybe like a Top 15 or something like that.
 But I didn't want to be focused on that because then you start looking at 15th place and go, oh, if I could just do this, if I finish 15th -- so I did a good job of focusing on the task at hand and trying to make as many birdies as I could.  Wish it could have been more, with you still a decent week.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT