THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 22, 2020
Scottie Scheffler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Following up the 59, how do you feel about today's round?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   I got off to a little slow start today but played solid on the back nine.  Felt like I played pretty solid today.  Didn't make as many birdies as I hoped to but still a decent round.
 Q. Playing with DJ and having to go back and forth, any sort of competition there?  Were you looking at anything he was doing or just trying to stick to your game?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   I wasn't really paying attention too much to what he was doing.  Trying to stay in my own world and keep plugging along.  I did a good job of that.  Dustin played a great round today and gave himself a little cushion for tomorrow but still not too far back.
 Q. (Inaudible.)
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Decent amount, couple hundred.
 Q. More than after the U.S. Open?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   More this time for sure.
 Q. Heard from anybody after the 59?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Ben Crenshaw keeps texting me.  He's cool, he's always been really nice and shoots a text every now and then, that's pretty cool.  He's very supportive of Texas alumni, so that's cool of him.
 Q. What do you think you have to shoot tomorrow?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Find out tomorrow.  Something low.
 Fun seeing Coach.  Had not seen him due to COVID.  Great seeing him, catching up a bit, for sure.
 Q. What's he doing here?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Hanging out, doing a little work with bow, not sure what capacity.  Coach Fields has always been really good to alumni and I'm sure bow needed him this week, so he came out and hung out for a week.
 Q. What's it like coming back after a 59?  Do you get frustrated early in you're not going bananas?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Not really.  Yesterday was awesome and the only difference going into today was everybody was telling me good round still, and that's pretty rare.  It's fun.  Once I got on the course, I didn't think once about it.
 Q. Swing feel different?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Not really.  My swing feels a little bit off.  I've had a little trouble working it left-to-right.  But I'm managing it pretty well.  I would say I probably hit it better in San Fran than I am right now but the margins out here are a little wider than they were there.  At a major, you've got to be so specific.  So that makes you take your ball-striking to a new level.  I wouldn't say I'm hitting it poorly.  I'm obviously hitting it very well.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT