THE AMERICAN EXPRESS
January 18, 2020
Scottie Scheffler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. There are bad bounces, there are good bounces, and there are unbelievable bounces like you got on 18. Walk us through what you saw on that hole.
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: I was just trying to hit a little draw 3-wood and I drew it a lot (laughing). I'm not sure if it would have crossed up there, so it was a great break bouncing off the rocks like that. I guess you take them where you can get them.
Q. Very lucky bounce, to say the least, and putting yourself into a really good position to end the week. This is your first time seeing Stadium Course in competition play. What did you make of it?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: It's a tough course. It's a good track. If you're not on your game, you can really struggle. There's a lot of trouble out there, so you've got to hit a lot of quality shots to keep the ball in play, so it's a good track. Good test.
Q. Not to get too far ahead of things, but as you are chasing your first PGA TOUR win, what past experience are you going to draw on when times might get tough or you might start to doubt yourself?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Yeah, I think winning is pretty similar at all levels of the game, and I feel like I've gone a good job of closing tournaments out, especially this year on the Korn Ferry TOUR. So looking back on that experience should definitely help and it should be a fun day.
Q. First off, 18. I was behind the tee there when you hit that tee shot. It looked wet. You got a nice break.
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Yeah, it felt wet, that's for sure. But, yeah, it was a great break. Take those breaks where you can get them. Obviously pretty happy with the bounce and happy to make a 4 there after the tee shot. So it was a good hole.
Q. All in all, though, really a good day. 15, the second shot up there to a foot. That's a par-4 that doesn't get a lot of birdies. That was a heck of a shot.
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: That was a great shot. I was kind of in between clubs and hit a good hard 9-iron. It was nice and high and landed soft on the down slope and it nestled up there close to the hole so it was good.
Q. Is it an advantage playing this course now two days in a row because the way the rotation works out it could be?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Yeah, you know, I'm not really sure. I couldn't tell you. But I like being able to play two days in a row. It's kind of nice. I had the first round over at La Quinta and then I've had the rest of the rounds over here so kind of been in the same routine the last few days and it will be the same tomorrow.
Q. You've won at every level, whether it's junior golf, collegiately, the Korn Ferry. Now a chance to win on the PGA TOUR. Same feeling the night before? Perhaps tied for the lead or the lead, is it the same kind of feeling?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Yeah, it's exciting. It's always fun to be in contention. It's fun to play well. It's what we work for, so I'm looking forward to tomorrow very much.
Q. What the is game plan when you go into the final round? Is there a specific one or do you just feel it as you go?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Feel it as I go. You kind of just see how the game's feeling in the morning and I guess see how I start off. I'm not really going to pay too much attention to the leaderboard or what anybody else is doing until maybe the last few holes, so. All you can do is control what I can control and go out and play a good round.
Q. Some thoughts on the third round here. Stadium Course. Nice playing.
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: I felt like I managed my game really well today. My swing felt a little bit loose, but was able to hit some quality shots, and give myself a lot of looks today, which was nice.
Q. What was, as soon as the ball came off the club on 18, what was your, what was going through your head?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Oh, I hope that crossed (laughing). I'm not sure if it did. I'm glad we didn't have to figure that out. But, yeah, it was a great bounce. Worse swing of the day ended up with a par, so I feel pretty good about it.
Q. You hit, I think with three holes left, I saw this stat, your proximity to the pin on your approach shots led the field, I think it was 18 feet. Was your iron play that strong today or what happened?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: It felt pretty good. Like I said, my swing was a little bit loose, but I felt like I still hit a lot of good quality shots and hit a few in there tight, gave myself a lot of good looks, which is important around here. You've got to hit fairways and greens, so it was nice to be able to do that.
Q. You mentioned the bounce on 18. How about how fortunate it was where the flag stick was on 16?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Yeah, that was good. I left myself with a tough pitch there and yeah, good line, I guess. Not going to turn down a break like that either.
Q. What do you draw upon for tomorrow being in the final group here?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Yeah, it will be an exciting day tomorrow. It should be a lot of fun. I'm looking forward to it. It was nice to have a few wins last year and hoping to do the same thing tomorrow.
Q. You've only got a handful of tournaments under your belt, but are you as comfortable out there as you look in this arena?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Yeah, it's been a lot of fun. This is a pretty relaxing week as far as a tournament goes, playing with the ams, had some nice parings, it's been a lot of fun. But I feel comfortable out here, which is nice, I got a lot of friends out here on the TOUR and this is where I feel like I belong so I guess yeah, pretty comfortable.
Q. You've won on every level, you've had some chances on the PGA TOUR to win, what do you need to do differently to get across the line tomorrow?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: I think this is my best chance, being tied for the lead going into the last round. I've gotten off to some good starts but I haven't been in this position going into the final round, I feel like I've been chasing. So it will be nice to be up there near the lead and it will be a fun day.
Q. Being at the top of the leaderboard the last two days how does that prepare you for tomorrow?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: I don't think it makes that big of a difference, it's just I've been playing solid golf, you can't get too far behind on these courses, you got to make so many birdies that if you fall too far behind you can't catch up. So it's been nice not having to play catch up so far and I feel like I'm in a good spot for tomorrow.
Q. And playing Stadium Course for the first time, I mean usually by a Sunday you've played a course three times, you kind of have an idea of what the ins and outs of it. How is this different?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Yeah, it's a little different because tomorrow will be only my third time playing the course, so you're not as used to the track as you would usually be. But I don't think it will make a huge difference. I feel like I got a good feel for the course and looking forward to tomorrow.
Q. You know where the rocks are.
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Yeah.
Q. You've played the par-5s so well this week. On number 8, which you ended up with par today, did that, do you feel like you kind of gave one back there?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Sort of. You got to take advantage of the par-5s out here, they're birdie holes and you got to make a lot of birdies around these courses. So I didn't play them as well today but I think I was still a couple under. The par-5s on the Stadium Course are much harder than the other two courses so 2-under is not bad.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT