U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 15, 2017
Scottie Scheffler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Scottie, what about the U.S. Open brings out the best in your golf game?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Well, I don't really feel like I've played my best yet.  It's only the first round, but it's nice to get off to another good start this year.
Q. It's obviously a little bit different because last year at Oakmont, terrible weather, half the field didn't finish. Just talk about how you're feeling this year compared to last year after your first round.
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Well, I'm a little less tired.  The day was a little quicker.  I got to sleep in.
But the course here, the weather has been great, and hopefully it stays as good as it has been.  But we'll see.  You don't really know.  But just feeling really comfortable this year.  Using my experience from last year as kind of more motivation.
Q. How big has the recent strong play at NCAAs this spring, how big has that been for your confidence going into the summer?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: It's been important.  I've been swinging it really well and putting it pretty good, so definitely feeling off that confidence.  But I wasn't able to win any coming down the stretch.
I had three top 3 finishes and no wins, so it wasn't my best, but still playing pretty good.  Just happy to get off to a good start this week.
Q. You said you don't feel like you're playing your best so far this week, in what way?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Well, I didn't really strike the ball as well as I needed to today.  My swing wasn't really feeling too great, but I somehow got it around.
I finished really well, but got off to a shaky start.  Yeah, I didn't hit the ball particularly great today.  My irons and wedges were good, but off the tee I was struggling a little bit.  So I've got to go figure a little bit of that out.
Q. Did something click in after your two early bogies?  You bounced back pretty quickly with two birdies right there.
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: I started feeling well.  I made two nice putts.  Good putt on 8, good putt on 9.  9 is a challenging hole and I feel like I stole a shot and a half with a birdie there.  I had a really good par putt on 11.  Made about a 15-footer for par and kept the momentum going.  I was able to make a few more birdies coming down the stretch.
Q. You stuck it to three and four feet, didn't you?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Yeah, yeah.  The irons were feeling pretty good.  I needed to put it in play a little more off the tee.  I was a little shaky off the tee today.
Q. People see that "A" after your name and fans maybe think it's a different designation.  How do you feel out here with these guys?  You played a lot with these guys, but how do you feel in the field with these guys?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: I feel really comfortable.  Last year, coming into this year, last year I was a little less comfortable.  Kind of getting used to everything.  But now I've done it the second year in a row, I feel much more like I belong.  Mentally I think that's really big.
Q. How much did that pass from last year to this year, which is very similar, help you this time out?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: I certainly gained a lot of experience the way I qualified last year.  I had a good start last year.  I didn't play particularly well in the second round and it really cost me.  Coming into this year I know that I got off to a good start, but I didn't keep looking at the leaderboard.  I mean, it was a good round, but I'm still four shots back.
Q. How much did the tee being up on 18 give you confidence?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: The tee being up?
Q. Yeah.
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Was it up?
Q. That's what Marc said.
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: I think, what was it, the 640 box?  18?  I think it was the 640 box, so I mean, it's still a long hole (laughing).  But, you know, it's playing a little bit downwind, so I felt more comfortable on the tee and I was able to hit a good tee shot and good second shot.
Q. Outside of winning, what is a successful finish for you?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Well, no matter what I'm going to gain a lot of experience this week, so I really feel like I can't go wrong.  I don't know how I'm going to play the next three days, but my game's feeling pretty good, and we'll see what the world has in store for me the next couple days.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT