U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2016
Scottie Scheffler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Good round of golf up there today.  Can you talk about it.
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: I felt pretty good about it.  I mean, I feel pretty good.  It hasn't really sunk in yet.  I played pretty solid.  My lag putting was really good on the greens, and I made some good 7-, 8-footers that kind of helped me keep the round going towards the end, which was really helpful.
Q. (No microphone)?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Yeah, there's definitely some scores out there to be shot.  It's tough with the adjustments that we had to make during the round.  We're used to playing short to all these pins, and now we've got to worry about controlling our spin.  And you've really, really got to be on the fairway to attack these pins again.
Q. What are some of the (inaudible)?  Any examples out there?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: For me, it was coming into the greens and trying to control the spin on the wedges.  All three days before, when we were playing, we were bouncing, trying to put as much spin as possible on the ball to keep it on the green.
For instance, I get on hole 11 today, second hole of the day, and I spin one back like 50 feet off the front of the green.  I thought I hit a pretty good shot, and all of a sudden, I'm left with a really hard two-putt.  That's just one example of an adjustment.
Q. How tough was it dealing with the wind towards the end there, when you were trying to finish that round before this weather?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: I was hoping to just finish No. 9 downwind.  That was helpful.  That's a difficult hole.
I was telling Callie on 8 that I just wanted to be able to hit that tee ball with a downwind, but the wind was kind of switching a little bit, which was another challenge.  There was a lot that we had to go through today with the weather and everything, the stop and go and trying to stay loose and stuff like that.
Q. What's that comfort level like having her on your bag?  How does she help you?  How important is she to have (inaudible)?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: It's very important to me.  I'm glad she was able to get the week off to come help me out.  She's a week into an internship, and she's already asking for a week off.  Hopefully she doesn't get in trouble.
The comfort level is a huge and she's caddied for me in a couple of pro events before.  We both kind of knew the drill.  Definitely the preparation between those events and coming into this one, it really helped -- another rain delay.  But it kind of helped get everything settled in.
The atmosphere around here is a little different than what we're used to, but having the experience behind us in the other two events was really helpful, especially with her caddying.  She knows the drill.  She knows how to caddie out here because it's very different than any other place.  I don't think we got in any trouble today, which is a good start.
Q. (No microphone)?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: The experience is -- I can't even describe it right now, but I didn't really let the magnitude of what's going on kind of get to me.  Once we got on the course, I was fine, but I'm glad we got here a little early this week to kind of get used to everything because this is something I've never experienced before.
But just kind of getting in here through the week, there's a lot more stuff going on than what I'm used to at an amateur tournament.  We've got courtesy cards and security and a bunch of people around.  The people don't really bother me.  It's just the other stuff that kind of goes on.  It's doesn't bother me, it's just something I'm not used to, like how we're going to get to the course tomorrow is going to a struggle because we've got to dodge thousands of fans.  That's something I've got to figure out when I'm done here.
Q. (No microphone)?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: I think my mental game has a lot to do with it.  Just trying to stay as patient as possible and not letting bad shots or maybe a bad hole or a bad stretch get to me.
This year in college golf was pretty tough on me, and I'm glad that I was on a really good team because that helped me get through it.  Our team is very supportive, and we were able to make a good run at the National Championship.  I think that helped all of us grow as players and as people and as a team.  I think that will be really good for us next year as well.
Q. (No microphone)?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Just a little bit.  There was just a little stuff that was bothering me, but nothing major or serious that's anything to worry about.
Q. (No microphone)?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: No, no, I was at 100 percent.  When I stepped on the tee box to play in a college event, I was ready to go.
Q. (No microphone)?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: She's interning -- WorldLink.  It's -- the only way I know it, it's another college golfer's dad that she's working for.  I think that was the big reason why she was able to get off work today.  And she's pursuing a graduate degree in marketing right now, so she's got a year to finish that up at A&M and a year left in college golf.
Q. I know you played 36 holes (no microphone).
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Yeah, well, I hope we'll be able to get in 18 tomorrow.  I don't know what -- Ryan is shaking his head no.  So we're not going to get in 18 tomorrow.  That will be another adjustment for us.  I don't know if we'll be teeing off at 7:00 at night or we'll be starting out at 6:30 in the morning.  I don't know.
Right now I'm going to go back to the hotel, get ready for the basketball game tonight, and then try to get some sleep.
Q. (No microphone) on the rain delays?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: One of them, we were out on the course, so I was hanging with Dre and then Charlie Danielson.  Then when we came up here, I was hanging with Charlie again and then Nick Hardy, and then I spent some time with my family at lunch.  My college coach is here, as well, and my instructor.  So we all just kind of hung out at lunch for a little while.
Q. Was it tough to readjust (inaudible)?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: The hardest part for me was getting loose.  After the first one, we didn't have much time to stretch other than walking out to the hole.  So that was the challenge.
After the second one, I made the mistake of not playing that close of attention.  All of a sudden it was 1:45, and they're like, we're leaving in 20 minutes to go back out.  So I did a quick stretch and hit a couple balls.  That was another adjustment we had to make.
Q. (No microphone)?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Well, yeah.  I was excited to get done on 18.  I tapped in like a 2 1/2 footer kind of quickly, which maybe wasn't the smartest idea.  I wanted our group to get done so we didn't have to come back in the morning because we were up at 4:00 a.m. this morning.
Some rest would be good tonight, and honestly, I really wanted to watch the basketball game tonight.  I wanted to get done so I could stay up late to watch that.
Q. Cavs going to win tonight?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: I don't know.  I don't have pull on either team.  I love the NBA, so I just want to watch.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT