MASTERS TOURNAMENT
November 14, 2020
Scottie Scheffler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Pretty nice finish there, huh? 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Yeah, that was nice. 

Q. Take us through your round. 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Coming out this morning, the weather was a lot different. The course was playing a little bit different. The greens I felt were significantly faster. Probably still not where they want them, but definitely faster than yesterday, and cooler temperatures. The ball is going nowhere. 15 went from like a driver, 4‑iron so I think I had almost 3‑wood in today and didn't go for it. But it was nice to get those two birdies at the end. It was a good finish. 

Q. With two holes left, were you looking at par‑par or just kind of taking what came to you? 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Yeah, just kind of taking what came to you just because you've got to be pretty careful around this place. I hit some good shots, had a good look on 14, good look on really 15 and 16, didn't make them, and so I just tried to keep giving myself looks. Made a nice putt on 17 and then 18 missed on the correct side of the hole there and I had a pretty simple pitch and hit a nice one. 

Q. I know you kind of showed up on Monday and saw it for the first time this week. You seem to be pretty comfortable around here. What is it, does it just suit your eye? 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Yeah, I'm starting to play a lot better. My swing is starting to come around a little bit. I think I'm figuring out a lot of the angles around this place and where a lot of the greens pull in certain areas. I was fortunate enough to play here a few times in college, and I felt like I learned a lot then, so coming into this week I felt like I had a decent idea of what went on. Especially when you come here and play, you've got a local caddie so he's telling you where all the pulls are and all the reads and was able to remember it, which was nice. 

Q. Do sounds help your concentration or is it easier to pick up on some of the distractions? 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: I would say the typical event it was easier to pick up on small distractions but there's really not much going on out here. It's really peaceful. I haven't felt distracted at all with there being no people out here. If there's any sort of maintenance or volunteers or whatever is going on out on the course, I'm not really hearing any of it, which is great. It's very calm. 

Q. You did well at the PGA Championship and didn't have a chance to play the U.S.Open, now here you're playing well. Do you feel like the majors suit your game? 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Yeah, I feel like the majors kind of suit my game better. I feel like I hit a lot of fairways, which is important at major championships and I'm able to hit my irons really high so when the greens get firm like they were in San Francisco I think it suits my game really well. And this course, you can play this course a variety of ways, as you see. You've just got to play really smart, work the angles, just kind of plot your way along. If you get too aggressive in some spots it can get messy pretty quick, so just trying to stay patient and hit some good shots. 

Q. Is the plan now to kind of go get some rest and see how it goes and come out firing this afternoon? 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Yeah, Saturday pins out here, should be some birdies I would assume. I don't know exactly how they're going to set it up, but should be some birdies. So just get out, get rolling, and get a little bit of rest now. Not too much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT