U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 16, 2017
Scottie Scheffler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You did pretty good for a while there?  
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: I felt like I hung in pretty good.  I wasn't really swinging it well, and put myself in bad spots in the beginning of the round, so hung in there pretty good.   
 Q.  Have you noticed a better ability to be able to hang in when you don't have your best stuff?  Obviously that time around the NCAAs where you made the early quad and still hung in there?  
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Yeah, I think I was like 4-over through two.  I actually did pretty good getting around the back nine in 4-over there.  I think that's something you see with really good players, is when they don't have their best stuff, they still play pretty good.  I think you see that a lot with the top guys.  It's nice I'm seeing a little bit of that with my game.   
 Q.  You're not happy, but how do you feel about making the cut?  
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Feel good.  It's exciting to be able to play the weekend.  I've never done that before.  So it will be a good experience for me and we'll see how it goes.   
 Q.  You've got two more rounds to play, obviously, but do you regard this as a motivational week for you or validating week that this is what you can do for the next 20 years?  
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: More motivational because I haven't been able to look at the scores.  But right now I'm still six back, so I have a lot of work to do on the weekend.  Two more days and we'll see what happens.   
 Q.  So you're talking about a lead.  Where in the rankings of things would you like to be, maybe finishing as the top amateur?  
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Well, top amateur would be nice, but I'm more focused on how I finish with the entire field.  It would certainly be very special to be the low am, but I think that will just come with how I play.  I'm not really going to focus on that this weekend.   
 Q.  Shortly on that vein, right now there's only two amateurs that are under the cut line, you and Cameron, a Longhorn and an Aggie.  
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: No, no, Cameron's a really good buddy of mine and we've known each other a long time.  It will be fun.   
 Q.  How long have you known him for?  
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Cameron?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: At least six years.  I mean, long time.  I mean, me and Cam went on a trip together.  We played the Toyota Junior World Cup in Japan, so, I mean, that's when we became pretty close.   
 Q.  So there's no bad blood or anything?  
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: No.  You'd have to ask him that, but no.  Maybe double check with him.   
 Q.  Was that junior high school that you guys did that?  Maybe after?  
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: I can't remember.   
 Q.  Maybe the summer between junior and senior?  
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Maybe.  I honestly can't remember.   
 Q.  Do you remember anything from that week between you guys?  
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Yeah, I remember we both had our birthdays that week, so it was this time, I guess, five years ago.  I remember eating a lot of McDonald's together.   
 Q.  When is your birthday?  His was yesterday?  
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Mine's the 21st.  It's next week.  I remember his was the beginning of the trip, and mine was the very last day, and that was fun.   
 Q.  What is the biggest difference in your game now compared to, say, a year ago?  
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: I feel like I'm a lot more consistent now.  I think I've sharpened everything up a little bit.  I still have a long way to go.  But I feel like overall driving it a lot better than I was last year.  I've just been more consistent with all parts of my game.   
 Q.  What do you think making the cut does for your Walker Cup chances?  
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: I hope it helps them.  It certainly couldn't hurt.  But that's up to the committee and all that.  All I'm going to do is play golf and see where it puts me.   
 Q.  How badly do you want to make that team since you got a taste of it at the world amateur team last year?  
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Yeah, world amateur team is a really cool experience.  That was really special.  I've been close.  Last year or two years ago, I was the first alternate; and then the two years before that -- I mean, that was the year I won the Junior, and I think I was the last American in the Am, so it's not like I feel like I've been snubbed, but I felt like I've been really close.  So definitely to take it to the next level to be on that team would be really special.   
 Q.  Were those two of the toughest moments for you, being so close and not being able to play on that team?  
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: It was a tough moment.  But it's up to the committee.  It's not really up to me.  All I can do is play as good as I can and see where that puts me.  It would be a really special honor being on the Walker Cup.  It's something I've been thinking about since I figured I had a chance about four years ago.   
 Q.  Did you come to Erin Hills thinking this was a possibility, making the cut and playing on the weekend?  When you showed up, did you feel like that's what was doable for you?  
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Yeah, I was trying to win.  I mean, making the cut is great and it's a step in the process, but my goal this week was not to make the cut.  It was to put myself in contention and see what I could do.   
 Q.  How is Cali doing this week?  
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: She's doing okay.   
 Q.  Did she ask for a raise?  Any fire or any great advice?  
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: There wasn't any fire out there, but she's doing a good job.  Getting better with the club selection.  I feel like our club selection was pretty good today.  We only messed up once, and it was on 8.  We misjudged the wind together.  That was the only mistake she's made.  For a caddie that's pretty good.  One mistake in 36 holes for us is pretty good.   
 Q.  How many were there in last year's U.S. Open?  
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: How many what?   
 Q.  How many mistakes?  
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Oh, I can't remember.  That was a year ago.  Honestly, I have no idea.   
 Q.  Did you feel any pressure taken off now that you've made the cut?  Maybe that was a little bit of a psychological thing from last year?  
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER: Yeah, it was definitely in the back of my mind today, which certainly wasn't a good thing.  But kept it enough out of the way where it didn't affect me.  Now I'm playing the weekend, and hopefully I'll feel more loose and free tomorrow and play some golf.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT