HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 17, 2014
Scottie Scheffler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   So pretty crazy day.   Your scorecard has lots of marks on it.   Can you describe the overall roller coaster aspect of it? 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   My putting, I pretty much had no confidence from inside 6, 7 feet, which is not very good.   That's where all my bogeys came from, I think, missing putts inside 6 feet. 

Q.   That's not you when it comes to putting. 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   No, not usually.   It was really bad, but I still played okay. 

Q.   I was going to say to get the score you did out of today, of course a hole‑in‑one helps‑‑
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Hole‑in‑one erases two of them, so that leaves three.   Three putts inside 6 feet that I missed.   Could have been better. 

Q.   Talk about the hole‑in‑one. 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   I was in between 5 and 4, and I figured that I didn't want to go short, so we decided I should go long, and I hit it pretty solid and it landed up on top, rolled in. 

Q.   That's a rarity for an amateur to have a hole‑in‑one.   How does that make you feel about the game? 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Made me feel pretty good.   It's pretty lucky to have hole‑in‑one.   It's not all about‑‑ anybody can have a hole‑in‑one. 

Q.   Oh, yeah? 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   I guess, but it gives me a little bit of confidence.   I needed that to happen.   I just missed two short putts the two holes before that.   Kind of settled me down a little bit. 

Q.   How are you handling the pressure, this tournament?   You were playing High School State Golf just‑‑
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   I've been handling it pretty well, I think.   It's gotten bad.   Sometimes it's‑‑ it was almost embarrassing the way I was putting today, but I stayed in it mentally and made a few putts coming down the stretch, so that was good. 

Q.   Was that your first time in competition, hitting a hole‑in‑one?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   That was my third in competition. 

Q.   You celebrated, raised your arm hugged your sister.   How does it feel to have your sister at a moment like that? 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Feels good.   That's the second one I've had with her on the bag. 

Q.   The other would be the amateur? 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   The AM, yeah.   Yeah, that's pretty funny.   That one we actually got to see go in, so that was pretty cool. 

Q.   You were posing, though, on it. 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   It looked good in the air.   I looked at it to make sure it wouldn't trickle over the back of the green, but it landed in a good spot. 

Q.   Have you ever had a round where you missed‑‑ you said 6‑footers, but some of them were 3‑feet, 4‑feet‑‑
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Right, yeah, "inside 6 feet," right. 

Q.   Have you ever had a round where you missed‑‑
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Not that many.   I've had some where I missed a couple, maybe, two, three, but not five. 

Q.   But in competition you don't play greens like this, right? 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Actually sometimes you usually do.   The greens in the USGA stuff usually are faster and harder than these, just because of the moisture they've had on them over the past couple of‑‑ or the beginning of the week, and they can definitely pick up pace, but that didn't have anything to do with it.   I just missed the putts. 

Q.   Last I saw you were tied for 23rd.   Any sense of accomplishment out of that? 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Yeah, a little bit.   For the way‑‑ it feels like each day there has been something wrong with the way I was playing, but I also was doing good stuff, too.   It gives me confidence.   One of my biggest worries coming in was I wouldn't be able to make enough birdies to compete, but my problem has been just making too many mistakes. 

Q.   You sound like a perfectionist there in terms of evaluating your own game. 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   I guess, I don't know.   Too hard on myself. 

Q.   Do you think you might go home and do some math tonight and see what a 33rd place would be if you were not an amateur? 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   I guess I'll do that when the week is over.   We'll see. 

Q.   Congratulations on the hole‑in‑one.   Mind‑set the same?   Unexpected?   When you hit it you knew it? 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Really unexpected.   At that point my day wasn't going very well, but that helped a little bit. 

Q.   For the record, some of us were talking this morning.   Your hole‑in‑one was the story, just so you know! 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Pretty cool. 

Q.   What's been the best part about, if you will, coming out to the Byron Nelson?   You came off high school golf to come into this type of atmosphere. 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   It's a little different.   I got a little used to it when I was playing in South Carolina.   There were some fans out there, but nothing like this.   It feels pretty good.   Pretty comfortable. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT