HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2014
Scottie Scheffler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We'll get started.   We would like to welcome Scottie Scheffler into the interview room, here at the HP Byron Nelson Championship.   He is making his debut on the TOUR.   He is a 3‑time Texas State Champion and also a past winner of the Junior Amateur Championship.   Scottie, welcome to the Byron Nelson.   If we can get some comments on being here. 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   It's a pretty big honor.   I would like to thank the Salesmanship Club for letting me play in their tournament. 

Q.   You played the course this morning.   Talk about how it suits your style. 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   You gotta get it in play, hit fairways and hit the greens and hit it in the right spots in the fairways. 

Q.   Describe your game for us for those who might not have seen you play. 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Depends on the day sometimes, just try to ‑‑ most of the time I just try to get in to play, and get it in the fairway. 

Q.   Talking with your dad during your practice round.   You have a test in the morning? 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   I do.   I have a calculus project I have to do tonight and an quantum science test in the morning. 

Q.   And that would be a final? 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   No, it's just‑‑ I'll take it so I won't have to take my final.   If I get a good grade on this I won't have to take my final. 

Q.   Describe juggling, being a normal kid going through your senior year and next thing you know you're out here walking with the pros. 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   It's pretty cool, I've been doing everything I normally do, except going to school the past couple of days (Laughter.) 
It's a cool experience for me, it's fun. 

Q.   Any particular cool moment or somebody coming up to you?   A "wow" moment? 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Not quite yet.   I've been hanging out here, it's been nice. 

Q.   Scottie, can you talk about how you came to the game of golf and who your influences in the game have been? 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Well, my dad got me started.   He doesn't really play much, but he used to go hit balls and I would tag along and finally I got into it, start hitting balls and he stopped and I kept going. 

Q.   Who has influenced you in the game? 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   My coach, Randy Smith has influenced me and a lot of the pros that practice where I do, Martin Flores, Harrison Frazar, Justin Leonard, guys like that?

Q.   How much do you feel, Scottie, if at all, the pressure of what Jordan was able to accomplish four years ago here and the feeling that you're kind of following in his foot steps a little bit? 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Obviously there is a little bit of pressure, but I'm trying to treat this like I would any other tournament with my preparation, and that's really all I can do, is just keep preparing the same way I have been. 

Q.   Do you feel like you're following in those foot steps? 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Am a little bit.   I can see the connection. 

Q.   What would you consider a successful week? 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   I was going to try to get in the top‑10.   I thought that would be a good goal for me. 

Q.   Just how much interaction have you had with Jordan? 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   In Junior Golf I had a lot of interaction with him, but he's a little bit older than I am so he went to college and obviously turned pro.   I saw him today, he came over from No. 1 and said hello to me.   That was nice. 

Q.   Did he help influence you at all, going to UT? 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   A tiny bit.   He was there when I was being recruited but I had a pretty good idea that he wouldn't be there when I was going to end up being there.   A little bit, but not too much. 

Q.   Your name has been tied to his ever since you were, what, 10 year old?   12 year old? 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   I'm not sure.   A while. 

Q.   Is it something you're used to or something that has been somewhat bothersome or are you perfectly comfortable? 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   It definitely doesn't bother me at all.   It's been mentioned for a while and I don't mind.   It's a pretty good person to be compared to. 

Q.   Scottie, what do you think is the strength of your game in terms of hitting the ball, strategy, what have you? 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   I think my strategy is pretty good and the way I approach it.   I mean, yeah, I think that's my strength, the way I approach the game. 

Q.   Wondering how much you have had a chance to play this golf course?   And specifically, what kind of condition is it now compared to years past?   They have had a lot of rain and there have been changes made. 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   I haven't played it that much in years past but the weeks leading up to this I've been playing a little bit.   We got a lot of rain last night and a north wind tonight and a north wind tomorrow, but it should flip back to the way it usually is when the tournament starts. 
THE MODERATOR:   All right, Scottie.   We appreciate the time, and play well this week. 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT