U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2013
Scottie Scheffler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to do a quit sit down with Scottie Scheffler, who's been kind enough to wait for us here.   Scottie, thanks for joining us.   You made it to the quarterfinals as a 17 year old.   That's still quite an accomplishment.   Tell us about the match from your perspective. 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   I played pretty solid.   I didn't putt very well.   I hit some good putts, I just wasn't reading them right. 
Didn't finish as well as I've been this week, but I guess that's why I lost. 

Q.   Obviously you're disappointed, but not too many people make a hole‑in‑one in their career, let alone the U.S.Amateur quarterfinals.   Tell us about that shot. 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   I clubbed down to a 5‑iron because I knew it would release down that hill, and then hit a pretty good shot, and it landed up on top of the hill, started rolling down, and then we all just kind of started walking up, and about six, seven seconds later everyone started cheering, and it just went in. 

Q.   On 10 you hit that putt a little downhill, I think it was a right to left, but after that you seemed to struggle with the greens, like you said.   Were you just leaving yourself in bad spots and just kind of attribute that to your poor putting over the last couple holes? 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   I mean, it's hard‑‑ I wasn't leaving myself in bad spots.   I mean, a few of them I did, but other than that, not really, just misreading the greens, I think.

Q.   Was it a speed thing or were you just not reading the break enough or too much?   What was happening? 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Just depends.   There's some weird spots in the greens, and I seemed to find those today. 

Q.   How many hole‑in‑ones do you have in your career?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Four now. 

Q.   And how many in competition?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Two. 

Q.   Can you talk about the lie in the bunker on 18, what your mindset was trying to get that out? 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   I wanted to get it‑‑ the lie, the fried egg, the egg part was really big.   There was about that much room between the actual depression and my ball.   So I tried to get as close to the depression as I could and swing as hard as I could, and it was about four feet from being good. 

Q.   What's your feeling just overall?   You did get to the quarterfinals.   Just overall the way you played this week?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   I had a good week.   If you would have told me on Saturday that I was going to make it to the quarterfinals I would have taken that.   I had some good matches, and I'm happy with the way I played. 

Q.   I don't think you'd lost 18 all week, so could you sort of talk‑‑ I don't know what your yardage was on the approach, if there was any wind that affected your second shot, if you hit it the way you wanted to. 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   I was about 185, and I was in between 5 and 4, and I went with 4, and I hit a little cut, and I think the wind kind of gusted on me.   I came up short, and then just didn't have much in the bunker. 

Q.   You said if we had told you that you'd be a quarterfinalist you would have taken it.   How about the last‑‑ I guess one of the last Americans left in the tournament? 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Yeah, I guess that's good. 

Q.   To go back on that theme, you're one of three Americans that were left in the quarters, and now obviously no Americans are left.   This is a Walker Cup year.   I don't know if you came in thinking that you had an opportunity depending on how well you did here this week, but can you talk about that and if you really did think you have an opportunity?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Yeah, I think I have an opportunity.   I've played some good golf this summer, showed I'm good in match play and in team competitions.   I don't really know.   I knew if I played well this week I'd have a chance, and I played pretty well, showed some heart and stuff.   So maybe they'll pick me.   I don't know. 

Q.   The whole idea that they pick five early and there's five left, and now it looks like two of them have to be mid‑ams, does that feel a little difficult for you when as far as you know no mid‑am has got into the match play portion, and yet there's three guys that are in this portion, the qualification, and the likelihood that all three of you would get picked is not very good?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   No, I don't think so, but if they want to pick me, then I'll accept it, and if they don't, then I'll get in in two years. 

Q.   You've got one more year of high school; when do you start back up at school?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Next Monday.

Q.   So you're heading right back up to school?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   I've got a whole week, but yeah, I guess.

Q.   So just another week?
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Yeah. 
THE MODERATOR:   Scottie, congratulations on a great run. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT