WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 27, 2021
Scottie Scheffler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Overall assessment of the two matches today.
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   I felt like I played some really good golf.  I think I kept things bogey-free and I got some early leads and made sure that I kept the pressure on those guys and made them feel like they had to do something special to beat me, which they weren't able to do.
 Q. 15 birdies in 31 holes today.  Was it tough keeping the momentum between matches?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   I wouldn't say so.  I knew I had to bring my A game again this afternoon just like this morning.  So going up against two great opponents like that I didn't really lose much energy and I was excited for both matches.
 Q. You're always good at keeping your cool, your emotions in check.  Is that hard to do in this format?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   I wouldn't say so.  I think in this format you got to just keep things in check and keep hitting really good shots and keep the pressure on your opponent and I think the way you do that is just staying calm and just try and hit good shots and that's about it.
 Q. How big was that putt on 14 after Jon chipped in?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   That was a big one.  I was standing there green side and that was kind of the moment, it was kind of his do or die moment for the round, and I had a feeling he was going to hit a really good shot and it happened to go in and I knew I had to roll that one in to keep things in check.
 Q. You've got a Ryder Cup legend and a top 3 player.  Where does this rank for Saturday achievements for you in your career?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Pretty good.  First match play tournament, so being able to take down those two guys last two matches and Xander in the final match on Friday, like I said before, I think my game's trending in the right direction this week and I'm looking forward to getting some rest and get back out on the course tomorrow.
 Q. Were you getting some juices from the crowd down the stretch?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Yeah, for sure.  Those guys brought a lot of energy.  It's nice to be in front of a home crowd and I got some friend and family out here, so it's nice to play some good golf in front of them.
 Q. I don't think you trailed all day today.  Having that momentum again, was that a big lift for you?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   For sure.  Jon gave me a little opening at the beginning of the round with a bogey on 11.  I stepped up with a nice birdie on 12 and he made two nice birdies, I believe, on 7 and 9, but then I got right back at him with a good birdie on 10 and put the pressure on him on 12, hitting a good shot right in front of the green easy up-and-down and I think he knew he kind of had to force something and didn't hit a great shot and was able to get that win and then kind of keep him at bay as we came down the stretch.
 Q. Do you feel like you played as well this afternoon as this morning?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   I would say so.  I played very well this morning.  I probably made a few more putts this morning than this afternoon but hit a lot of quality shots this afternoon.
 Q. We have a picture of you from this tournament just a few years ago when you were here as a spectator.  I don't know what year that was, but do you remember walking around and maybe who you might have been following?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   All I really remember was coming out here with my buddies and wife and just kind of having a good time walking around seeing shots, kind of messing around, gambling a little bit and having some fun.  I don't think we watched anybody in particular but just kind of walked the course and had some fun.
 Q. You have known the course for a long time.  Was this a course where you could think to yourself, if I was in a match I would do this or do that?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Yeah, for sure.  I think that stuff's always going through your head being a player and watching these guys.  So I think just coming out here and watching and seeing what these guys are able to do, I definitely believe that I had the talent to come out here and play some good golf.
 Q. Does it seem more realistic and within your grasp?  I know you got two matches hopefully ahead of you, but does it seem, this close to what it would mean to you?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Yeah, I mean, this is the position I want to be in at the end of the week.  I didn't want to lose any matches and so I got another, I don't know who I'm playing in the morning.  I'm not sure if that match is finished.  Kuchar?  So another great opponent in the morning and looking forward to getting on the course with him.
 Q. You said something earlier about watching the Ryder Cup with your dad and then getting pissed off.  Is that Ryder Cup something that looms large in your mind, especially in match play?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Yeah, for sure.  That's one of my favorite tournaments of the year.  Always watching it, always rooting hard, love the USA and love that tournament whether I'm playing or not it is a ton of fun and love rooting the guys on.
 Q. You ever been to one?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Yeah, I played the Junior Ryder Cup in 2012 and my dad and I were there on Saturday and we actually left Saturday night and all we remember or all I remember was us watching on the TV in the airport and I know Poulter made some putts late and my dad's like, Oh, crap, not good.  And sure enough they beat them the next day and that's one that will always kind of stick with me.
 Q. Tomorrow it's supposed to blow 20 to 30 miles per hour, you grew up in Texas, how would you rate yourself as a wind player?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Yeah, I mean I think I would rate myself as a pretty good wind player, I definitely played in some conditions around this course and I think it's going to be a different direction tomorrow, I think it's going to be a north wind and so a gusty north wind around this course is something these guys may not have seen and I think I'll have the upper hand with a little bit of experience and looking forward to the challenge as well.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT