WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 24, 2021
Scottie Scheffler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. It seemed like it was give and take the whole time.  When you're in a match that close, can you ever come up and take a breath, or is it pretty tense the whole way?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   I think it's pretty tense.  There's a lot of risk-reward holes and there's a lot of good pin positions today, so you kind of had to pick your spots when and where you wanted to be aggressive, and I think I did a good job of that today.
 Q. Did you have any nerves today?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Yeah, of course, just like any other day I come out to play.
 Q. Yeah, anymore -- you're playing Jason Day, who has won this event -- anymore than usual?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Yeah, any time you come out for match play or a bigger event like this really or any time I tee it up I'm usually nervous, so nothing I'm not used to, I guess.
 Q. You drove the ball well today?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   I felt like I drove it well.  I didn't drive it as well on the back nine, but for most of the front nine I put myself in a lot of good spots.
 Q. What happened on 16?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Jason pulled his drive a little bit.  We all thought it was in the bunker up there and it turned out to be in the water, and he made a couple mistakes from there.
 I was -- it would have played pretty conservatively with my chip to make a par and kind of get out of there.
 Q. You played plenty of match play as an amateur.  Does this feel any different, or is it?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   We haven't played match play in a while.  In college it was always nice getting that experience.  And as far as nerves go, I would probably say I was more nervous in college coming out and playing match play with four guys depending on me.
 Out here it's just myself and my caddie so things are a little simpler.
 Q. So more nervous in college?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Well, I mean, yeah, I guess.  National championship on the line.  Sure.
 Q. You obviously pushed it to 18.
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Yeah, yeah.  I felt like we had a good match today.  I don't think either of us had our best stuff.  But we both hung in there.
 Q. How did the course play today?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Pretty good.  It was a little softer than I expected, but depending upon the weather we get this week, we'll see.
 Q. Was it surreal at all for you today?  Like obviously you came here as a fan, when you were at UT you played here, and obviously every golfer's goal is to be top 64.  But to be top 64 did so quick, you expect it this quickly in your career?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   I don't think you expect anything in this game I always believed that I would be here.  I didn't expect it.  But, yeah, I mean, I was obviously very bummed last year when this tournament got cancelled.  I was really looking forward to coming out here and playing in front of all the fans.
 So this year to at least have a few people out here is great and it's nice that things are starting to get back to normal.
 Q. Some of your buddies here?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Yeah, a few of them.
 Q. Who all is here?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Just a few buddies, some college friends, family.
 Q. You never trailed in this match.  What were you able to do so well to keep Jason at bay?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   For most of the front nine I hit it really solid.  He kind of struggled with his ball striking a touch at the beginning and I took advantage of that, made a couple nice birdies there.
 But overall I thought my ball striking was really good on the front nine and then the back nine I kind of just hung in there.
 Q. This is your first-ever appearance in this championship.  How important was today to get that victory?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   It's always nice to get the first win.  I think the other guys halved, so as long as I win my next two matches I'll go through for sure.  And it's always nice getting that first win out of the way.
 Q. Great match.  Tied going to 16, ended up winning 2-up.  Thoughts on how the match went and how well you played today?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Yeah, I think I played pretty solid.  I didn't make as many putts as I wanted to, but I did a good job of giving myself a lot of looks and I'm sure as the week goes on those putts will start falling.
 So it's nice to get a win on a day where my putter didn't feel that great.
 Q. First time in this event.  What was it like?  You were playing Jason Day, veteran of these things.  What was going through your mind this morning, and anymore nervous than normal?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Not really.  Match play is a little bit simpler.  You only got one guy in front of you.  I knew Jason's obviously a great player and I was going to have to play some nice golf to be able to beat him, and was able to do that.
 Q. Got your first point in group 6.  Thoughts on the state of your game and how it suits this golf course.
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Yeah, I think I know this place really well.  I think I know how to kind of work the angles around the golf course, and as long as I keep driving it well, I think I'm going to have a lot of looks this week and should be able to play some good golf.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT