WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 5, 2021
Scottie Scheffler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Good round today, 6-under 65.  Just a few comments about the round and then we obviously want to talk a little bit about 17.
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Yeah, I played pretty solidly.  I had a really good front nine.  It I didn't play as well on the back nine, but it was nice to get off to a good start today and looking forward to the weekend.
 Q. How about 17, if you could just take us through what club you hit, the yards, so forth.
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Yeah, I think it was 151 stick.  It may have played down, too, or something.  I can't remember.  I think the actual number was 151.  I was kind of in between wedge and 9.  It was just starting to warm up at that point in the day and I hit a hard wedge.  Louis's ball was able to get some spin on it.  It looked like it was going in.  There was literally nobody there so I couldn't tell if it had a chance or not.
 Q. Were there any people out there then?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   No, it was empty.  There was like maybe five or six people at the green.
 Q. Same on 17 with the eagle, nobody?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   There was more people on 17 than there was on 16.  There was like 20 people on 17.
 Q. Driver or --
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   3-wood.
 Q. What about the four-putt?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Missed my first putt a little left and then misread the next two.
 Q. Is it hard to come back from something like that?  You seemed to not have any problems with it.
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   What are you going to do about it?  It happens and you move on, finish good after that.
 Q. I heard on the broadcast that you broke your gamer driver before the tournament.
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   I did, yeah.  My driver cracked on Wednesday afternoon.
 Q. How comfortable did you feel with the driver?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Pretty good.  I think the results speak for themselves.  I had traveled with a backup most of the time and luckily the Ping guys were here when it broke Wednesday afternoon, and we put a little extra glue in the toe and started seeing the shot shape that I like, and it's been good.
 Q. Is this a course that you thought you would play well?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Yeah, I think it suits my game well, especially when I'm driving it good.  I think the greens will get firmer as the week goes on, and I hit the ball pretty high, so pretty comfortable out here.
 Q. Have you ever played with Stricker, and what would it be like to have a chance to play with the Ryder Cup captain?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Yeah, it would be cool.  Whoever we're paired with this weekend, I should be in a good position going into the weekend, so looking forward to moving up the leaderboard.
 Q. What do you think of Stricker, doing what he's doing at almost 53?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   Yeah, 53?  Yeah, it's pretty cool.  It's nice to see him playing well.  He's got such a great swing and good rhythm.  It's pretty cool seeing him play well again.
 Q. Any bonus to getting to play with him, show him what you've got?
 SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER:   No, I mean, there's a big body of work for the two to three years in between Ryder Cups, so I don't think one round with him is going to change too much.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT