U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2015
Maddy Herr
Brynn Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Congratulations on today.  You guys played a couple of older players today, some mid-ams.  Can you talk about what that match was like?  MADDY HERR: It was a fun match just because I've known Meghan won the Mid-Am four times and it's kind of an honor to play with her.  We just kind of went out there and had fun, and we played with them in the practice round so it was kind of relaxing because we had already played with them.   BRYNN WALKER: Yeah, we kind of knew what their game was like, and we had just come off a playoff and had made really long putts, so we were kind of sticking with the momentum from that.  We had adrenaline going and we came back from 2-down in the last match, so we just kept going with it, and we kind of -- at the beginning of the last match didn't play our real game, so we kind of just want to stick to our game plan and keep it doing, so that's what we did.  We got to knock in a birdie on the first hole and from there just kept rolling.  That's the first time we've been up on the first hole throughout the match, so that felt good.   Q.  Who made that birdie on 1?  BRYNN WALKER: That was me.  I hit 3-wood off the tee and maybe like 20 yards out, and I just stuck it to like two or three feet.   Q.  So the practice round on Thursday, did you know those girls then before, or was it a random pairing?  MADDY HERR: It was a random pairing, but I think my dad had known what she had done, plus she's from Pennsylvania, I think, so I knew of her, so it was nice to play with them, yeah.   Q.  You built a lead, but they tried to make a little comeback there.  I know dawn had two birdies there in the middle.  What are your thoughts when you -- you've got your 4-up lead and you see them start chipping away at it.  BRYNN WALKER: Like I've played in match play a good bit before, and I remember we were 4-up, and I was like, we can't get lazy, got to keep charging, keep growing the lead.  But they just played really well those two holes, and then the next hole luckily we hit some good shots, and I was like, if we can make a birdie then this is an advantage for us.  We both had birdie chances but I went first, so I made the putt, and then that kind of grew our lead, and just kept going with that, and she made a great birdie on the next hole, just kept going.   Q.  You guys are only like teenagers?  BRYNN WALKER: Yeah.   Q.  You seem a lot older.  BRYNN WALKER: I know.  We try to be.   MADDY HERR: I think we're both youngest in our family.  She has two older sisters and an older brother and I have an older brother and older sister, and her older brother plays golf and my whole family plays golf, so I think we learned a little bit from them.   Q.  Your sister, did you come when she played the Open?  MADDY HERR: I did, yeah.  I wasn't there the first day because I had my own tournament, but I drove up with my cousins, and I caddied for a hole.   Q.  Why did you do just one hole?  MADDY HERR: Because I think my dad was starting to get tired, and I think he knew that she wasn't going to make the cut, so he's like, hey, hop on the bag and just, like, enjoy the experience.   Q.  That was late in the day then?  MADDY HERR: Yeah, that was the last hole.  It's funny.   Q.  Did you guys stay with Stacy Lewis that week or something?  MADDY HERR: We did.  A family friend that we know, the Waughs, they had a house up in the Hamptons, so they were hosting Stacy Lewis, and we were going to get a hotel, but it was like such a long drive to get to the actual course, so they're like, hey, we have plenty of room, just stay in the house, and that was amazing.  It was really nice to meet her.   Q.  Did you think you learned anything from her?  Did you talk golf at all?  MADDY HERR: I didn't really talk golf at all, but I did speak to her and she was very nice.  It was nice, she's like one of my favorite players, so I was a little star struck, but it was definitely nice to meet her.   Q.  You guys are going to have Robynn and Hannah tomorrow.  What do you know about their games and how do you prepare for a match like that?  BRYNN WALKER: I've played with Robynn before, so I've kind of seen her game, but it was stroke play so I wasn't paying much attention to it.  We're not really going to change our game plan.  If we just stick with what we're doing, we should be pretty good, but we're going to have to get some sleep, that's for sure.   Q.  You've mentioned that game plan twice.  What is it?  BRYNN WALKER: Well, usually she goes first off the tee, and I can be a little bit more aggressive, and on the par-3s I go first.  We don't really have a reason for that, but it just works out better.   MADDY HERR: She doesn't trust me on the par-3s.   BRYNN WALKER: I don't know, it just worked out better.  The first day it didn't work so the second day we switched it up.  But yeah, she played a little bit more conservative on the hole, and I just know after she's in the fairway I can be a little bit more aggressive, and then usually we can both be aggressive on the second shot, so that works out pretty well.   Q.  Now, you're going to Penn State, right?  MADDY HERR: I'm going to Penn State.   Q.  And you're going to North Carolina?  BRYNN WALKER: UNC.   Q.  How did this partnership happen?  MADDY HERR: About maybe three or four -- probably four years ago we met, three years ago we met at the PA Girls' Junior, and I won, but only by like one stroke, and I think we just became really good friends from there.  We see each other a lot at summer tournaments.   BRYNN WALKER: We live 45 minutes away from each other, so we might visit each other every once in a while, but it's fun to be out here for a week together.  It doesn't happen usually.   Q.  Did you practice at all at home or did you just come in here fresh?  BRYNN WALKER: Individually we practiced.  We didn't practice together.  We wanted to, and it never happened.   MADDY HERR: We're like, hey, are you free this week?   BRYNN WALKER: We both had a couple tournaments before this, so it wasn't like we were coming out cold.  We were in tournament mode, and I think that definitely helped us.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT