NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: CAPITALS v RED WINGS
June 15, 1998
Chris Osgood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Chris, I guess I just wanted to ask you from the beginning -- you've probably been asked this before -- from the standpoint of watching the Stanley Cup last year versus being a part of it, if you are holding up the Stanley Cup this week, is it going to feel a little more special because of that?
 
CHRIS OSGOOD:  Yeah, obviously.  But I will -- I don't take -- I don't take away anything from what happened last year.  I enjoyed everything about last year and the experience of winning.  That's what it's all about.  But this year obviously to play more it means more when you're contributing that much more. When you're doing it, it's that much more gratifying.  I'm not saying that to take away from last year because it meant a lot to win last year as well. But it would even mean more this year. 
 

Q.  I'm sure there were times last year when you were hacked off and just wanted to get the hell out of Dodge.  Sticking in there obviously paid off for you, didn't it?
 
CHRIS OSGOOD:  I really wasn't mad last year. Maybe at the start I was because I wasn't playing.  But after I accepted what happened -- I mean, the past is  the past, really.  I played quite a bill, I knew I would be here for a long time.  It was just a little phrase, really, a bunch of years that I have played, that was -- that was one thing.  I didn't enjoy not playing, but I accepted it and had a great time winning the Cup last year.  But like I said, it would be a little more gratifying last year. 
 

Q.  The worst part about last year was this week between Game Three and four.  That is been tough?
 
CHRIS OSGOOD:  Yeah, it's been -- I mean, yesterday, I think it was good just to get away from everything and relax.  But today I think you start anticipating the game tomorrow and what can happen and you get real excited.  I mine, it's -- in one way it was good to get a break, we've been playing so hard, and, in another way, you just want to jump back out there.  I don't think it really matters.  We're just anticipating the game today and getting excited about tomorrow. 
 

Q.  But you'd like to play tonight, though, wouldn't you, if you had your druthers?
 
CHRIS OSGOOD:  No. 
 

Q.  Really?
 
CHRIS OSGOOD:  A little break, play tomorrow when we're all rested and ready to go.  
 

Q.  How many times did you hear or get the feeling from fans and media during the regular season, okay, this is fine, but we'll see what Chris Osgood is really made of come playoffs?  That seems to be the feeling -- and I know you didn't doubt yourself -- but is it gratifying to kind of hear everybody else taking notice of that you've accomplished right now?
 
CHRIS OSGOOD:  I don't have any problems with those questions because I played previously in the playoffs and went to the conference Finals.  People don't just remember what happened last and I expected that.  I had no problem with that during the regular season.  I knew come the playoffs I had to prove I could play.  I mean, I think I've done that and we're not done yet but I've taken a lot of big steps to get to this point and it's gratifying.  But people ask me that question and to be honest, I haven't had any problem with -- because I've pretty much accomplished everything I had to in the regular season than I had to do in the regular playoffs.  I have mean, that's sports and that's being a professional athlete, you have to tenuously try and prove yourself.  I mean, I thrived off that more than  anything. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT