FED CUP - AUSTRIA vs USA
April 28, 2002
Barbara Schwartz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ANDRE CHRISTOPHER:  Questions for Barbara Schwartz, please.


Q.  How do you feel after such an incredible victory? 

BARBARA SCHWARTZ:  I'm just happy.  I still can't believe this.  I mean, it's unbelievable for us  to win here.  I don't find even the right words, but I'm just (inaudible). 

Q.  I mean, it was a very long match.  There were so many ups and downs.  How did you keep yourself in it fighting the whole time?  You fought off the matchpoint. 

BARBARA SCHWARTZ:  Well, I mean, I always thought from the beginning on that we have the chance, we can win.  And Meghann is a great player, I know that.  She's No. 12 in the world now.  I just thought, "I have to fight for every point, and I have to take every chance," because you don't get it the second time normally.  Then it was so close in the third set.  Then I got a break.  Then I knew, "Okay, you have to do it."  Maybe I was a bit lucky, but I did it.

Q.  Did you think the match was over on matchpoint against you?  You made a desperate floating shot, and she didn't volley it, she waited for it to drop. 

BARBARA SCHWARTZ:  No, I never thought that the match was over for me.  The match is always over after the matchpoint.  But I'm always trying to fight and keep in the game.  And maybe it looked desperate, but I was just fighting  - just go for it. 

Q.  Anything special about beating the United States as opposed to any other country? 

BARBARA SCHWARTZ:  Well, I mean, for us, when we came here, the little Austria, it was the big United States, the No. 1 nation, and such great players.  Also, if Capriati is not here or not playing, I mean, if you have a team with Seles, Shaughnessy and Raymond...  We were just happy to be here and to play.  It's great that we won. 

Q.  Did you ever sense, the last couple days, that they were distracted by what happened with Capriati? 

BARBARA SCHWARTZ:  Well, I think it was a tough situation for them  - being at home and playing, and then you lose the No. 1 player.  But, I mean, still - again - it's a great team  also without Capriati.  And we just had a little chance and we took it and we just are unbelievably happy.

Q.  How did the leg injury affect you?  Did it alter your game at all? 

BARBARA SCHWARTZ:  Well, it was very tough for me because it was 5-all in the second set and it was very close.  And, well, with the tape on, it was a bit better.  And I just tried.  I couldn't run like I did before, but I was just fighting and keep the mind on the game.  I just tried. 

Q.  What was wrong with your leg? 

BARBARA SCHWARTZ:  Well, I did a big step.  I don't know actually what exactly happened, but it was just very tight.  And then it felt sore.  And so I took the  -- I put the tape on.  Now it hurts but, I mean, the game is over, we won, and now I get my massage after this (smiling). 

Q.  On one point after the injury, you cried out.  Did it cause you pain as you went on?

BARBARA SCHWARTZ:  Yes, yes, it did.  I was so concentrated.  You feel concentrate, you win some points, then you're just in the game and you keep on fighting.  But now, when I went off the court, I mean, it hurts actually.  But it doesn't matter.  I have massage now  - again  - and then we will go home and, yeah, take some days rest.  (Inaudible). 

Q.  What does winning two days in a row against Seles and Shaughnessy say to you about your own game and your own career? 

BARBARA SCHWARTZ:  For me it's very important, but I think first it's very important for Austria.  I mean, we are just a small nation, and it was great for us to play the United States.  And we won.  I played for Austria.  And, as I said in the beginning at the press conference, it's a great honor to play for our country.  We didn't come here with  -- I mean, some players were not here.  We couldn't be the whole team here.  So we just came in and tried.  It's a young team, actually.  So we tried.  And it's very good for the team and for Austria. 

Q.  Which side do you feel more comfortable on when you have to pass? 

BARBARA SCHWARTZ:  What do you mean? 

Q.  Someone comes to the net against you.  Do you feel more comfortable passing off the backhand or forehand side? 

BARBARA SCHWARTZ:  Well... It's okay on both sides.  I think it's sometimes easier on the forehand because you have more time.  With a one-handed backhand, it's tough to get the pressure back on the other side.  But, I mean, my backhand worked really well this weekend.  And so it's okay. 

Q.  You said you took a lot of chances in one of the first questions.  Did you go for shots that you normally wouldn't go for? 

BARBARA SCHWARTZ:  Well, when I had the injury from 5-all in the second set, then I went for the shots because I wanted to keep the volley game for sure.  So I tried to hit, like, the backhand winner, also if it was not really possible.  But, I mean, if you're confident, then you can try (inaudible). 

Q.  You beat the U.S. team all by yourself. 

BARBARA SCHWARTZ:  No, I wouldn't say that.  Austria beat the United States. 

Q.  All right.  But it is a unique situation, isn't it, especially with the idea you did it in two days? 

BARBARA SCHWARTZ:  Well, but... Yeah, we did it.  We all together did it. 

Q.  Is it spoiled at all that you didn't play Jennifer? 

BARBARA SCHWARTZ:  It really doesn't matter for me, because Meghann Shaughnessy is like No. 12 in the world.  It's great for me to play against her.  I mean, it was great for me to play against her.  I had the opportunities to play against Seles and Shaughnessy, and that was great.  I mean, if I would have played Capriati, that would also be nice.  But hopefully I will have the chance at the tournament. 

Q.  Barbara, do you feel like when you're playing this way that you can be a Top 10 player? 

BARBARA SCHWARTZ:  Yes.  Actually, yes.  I mean, I was a bit unlucky with my injuries the past years.  I was like No. 14 in '99, but then I had the elbow injury and three operations and it took me two years to come back.  And this year I also had a bit of problems.  So I just have to be fit and to keep on working, and I believe in my chance.  I mean, I played really great here this weekend.  But I think it was also because we were here as a team, and it was really a great time.  Also the people here, they were so nice.  It was a great week for us.  And so, yeah... I hope I can do it.

Q.  Do you find it easier or more motivating to play for Austria than you do when you're playing by yourself, say, at a Grand Slam? 

BARBARA SCHWARTZ:  Well, when I'm on the court, I'm always motivated because I just like to play tennis, and especially when you're injured for two years and you can't hit the ball for one whole year.  Then I think you have to be motivated.  If you can come back and play on the court, that's great. 

Q.  Did you use basically the same strategy today that you did yesterday in moving her from side to side on the court? 

BARBARA SCHWARTZ:  Yeah (smiling).  Yeah, she's a right-hander, so it's a bit different.  But she has a very good forehand.  When I was serving to her forehand, it was "boom!"  It was faster than my serve, it came back.  So I had to do something.  I had to try to move her because she was playing very fast.  And she's also a very good runner, so it was very difficult.  But, as I said, I was maybe a bit lucky and so I could do it.

Q.  Were there any points in the match when you felt a little bit hopeless? 

BARBARA SCHWARTZ:  Well... The point at 5-all when I had the set point, I was like, "Oh, my God."  And then it hurt.  And I didn't know what is it exactly.  But then I just thought, "Okay, next point, try it again."  But this situation was a bit difficult because if you get an injury, it's always tough.  And it was a close score.  But it's okay. 

Q.  Were you getting tired at the end? 

BARBARA SCHWARTZ:  Yeah.  I was definitely tired.  But I just tried to get my serve in, to win my service games.  And then I had one chance before at love-30, but I couldn't do it.  She was serving very well at 30-all  - it was an ace.  But, yeah, I had the chance at her service game again, so I took it.  Then, as I said, I knew I have to do it now. 

Q.  There were a number of games in the third set where Meghann didn't give up any points on her serve.  There was about three or four.  Did you realize that and at one point wonder if you were going to get anything back?

BARBARA SCHWARTZ:  When she was serving, she was serving pretty good.  And I just  -- I tried to do something because I couldn't run that much - again.  And sometimes it was like 40-love for her because I overhit the ball. 

Q.  And were you saving yourself up a little bit at that point? 

BARBARA SCHWARTZ:  No, no, no.  I was not thinking about it. 

Q.  Barbara, it seemed like you never got nervous, hardly at all, the whole match.  With her, it was pretty apparent she was nervous in some big points.  Did you feel anything, any kind of nerves? 

BARBARA SCHWARTZ:  Well, when I went on the court today and  -- in the beginning, I was a bit nervous because I was thinking about  -- when we were warming up, I was thinking about, "Okay, 2-love, we have a chance, come on."  But then from the first point on, I always think, "Okay, just this one.  Forget everything.  Forget the crowd."  And, well, it really worked out great this weekend.  And so I didn't feel nervous.  I was just nervous after the match, everyone is here (smiling).  And I still can't believe this. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT