NCAA MEN'S COLLEGE WORLD SERIES
June 19, 2016
Kevin O'Sullivan
Logan Shore
Jeremy Vasquez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Coastal Carolina 2, Florida 1
THE MODERATOR: We'll start with an overview from you, Kevin.
COACH O'SULLIVAN: Congratulations to Coastal Carolina.  They played very well tonight.  Obviously their starting pitcher was really good.  He didn't misfire.  He pretty much hit every spot.  He mixed from angle to angle.  He was good.  He deserved to win tonight.  And their offense was good.
They got a bunch of extra base hits.  We worked ourselves out of a few jams there on the mound.  And at the end of the day we scored one run and they scored two.
So we've got no choice right now but to come back on Tuesday be ready to go.  Just that simple.
THE MODERATOR: Questions for the student-athletes.
Q. Logan, the replay review went on for what five, six minutes, something like that.  As you're standing out there what was going through your mind and just talk about that delay and the angst of not knowing whether that was going to be fair or foul?
LOGAN SHORE: Yeah, I mean, it looked foul to me but obviously with the replay it showed it was fair, which is unfortunate.  But I mean I was trying to get out of the inning after they called it fair.
Q. Logan, obviously your pitch count was driven up a little bit there earlier in the game and you exited earlier probably than you would have anticipated.  Was that something that they were doing to drive up the pitch count or did you feel you didn't have your best location tonight?
LOGAN SHORE: No, I thought I threw pretty well.  Credit them.  They're a good team.  I think the reason I exited the game is because it's the College World Series and we knew it was going to be a close game and we wanted to limit the damage there in the sixth.  And I thought I threw all right.
Q. Jeremy, you were one of the few hitters that had so much success against Beckwith, but just what made him so difficult for a number of hitters in your lineup, what made him such a challenge for you guys tonight?
JEREMY VASQUEZ: Well, he was throwing from over the top a lot and going down a lot, and he was just keeping us balance all night.  We couldn't adjust.  He was sinking the balls to righties, we couldn't adjust to that, and he was just keeping us off balance all night.
Q. Jeremy, could you talk a little bit about the challenge now?  You guys come in as potential favorites, probable favorites.  Now you guys are in the elimination bracket.  How do you guys bounce back from this?
JEREMY VASQUEZ: We've just got to learn from this, move on, and take it one game at a time and just compete our tail off from here on out and hope for the best.
Q. Jeremy, just coming out and having to face that off the bench, how tough is that coming in as a pinch-hitter and seeing the multiple arm angles?
JEREMY VASQUEZ: I was watching him, how he threw to all the lefties all night just in case I had to come in and face him.  I didn't know it would be so soon.  But when I came up I had a good idea where he was putting the ball.  I got a pitch up and put a good swing on it.
Q. Logan, a lot was made of the Coastal Carolina lineup coming into the game.  They tag you for a few extra base hits.  What were your thoughts about kind of the challenge of facing them two or three times in the order?
LOGAN SHORE: I thought they were pretty good.  I thought they put good swings on the ball, when the ball's in the zone.  I thought my approach going into the game was good.  Really just came down to executing a couple of pitches.  And didn't execute them.  The fastball that ended up going over Buddy's head was supposed to be inside and I left it over the middle of the plate.  They made me play.  That's what good teams do, and that's what good hitting teams do, so that's how I feel about that.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.  Questions for Coach.
Q. Coach, you've seen a lot of submariners over the years.  You've coached them as well.  How often do you see a guy being able to maintain throwing strikes from so many different arm angles for nine innings?  That seems highly unusual.  Have you seen someone do that for a full nine innings?
COACH O'SULLIVAN: No, to be quite honest I haven't.  I think the last one that I've coached from multiple angles was a kid named Josh Cribb, if you remember him.  And it's one of those things where it's just a different look.  There's no way to simulate it.  There's no one in our league.  There's no one that does it.  We tried to do the best we could preparing our guys.  And the thing about it is he's going to both sides of the plate and you gotta pick one side or the other.
And for us, I thought the best way to go was when he dropped down was just to get off the plate, move up in the box and try to beat the sink and get the head out.  But for whatever reason we're not being able to get the head out tonight.  And we just kind of got beat over and over, when he dropped down.  It's just one of those things.
He didn't walk anybody.  I kept waiting for a walk here or there.  We had the leadoff man on in the first and second innings.  We couldn't do anything.  We had the lead-off single by Dalton, then struck out the next bat.  And we put a hit-and-run on with Deacon and the ball's hit right to Remillard at third and they turn a double play.
Didn't have many opportunities.  It was a game of inches.  Ball down the right field line.  They got the call right.  It was a double.  And we did everything we possibly could pitching wise to keep it right there.  Made some big pitches when we needed to.  But their starter was really good.
Q. After facing somebody who is so unconventional like that, do you worry about getting your hitters out of rhythm for the next game?
COACH O'SULLIVAN: No, I don't worry about that.  We'll be fine.  We'll be fine.
Q. Obviously you've been in this situation before, losing the first game to FSU, Super Regional, losing the first game of the SEC tournament.  Anything you can kind of draw from that in terms of maybe rallying the guys for Tuesday and possibly beyond?
COACH O'SULLIVAN: Yeah, I mean, we'll talk about it, about the SEC tournament, and we got to the final game and then obviously lost the first one against Florida State and then won the next two.  That's all we can do at this point.
There's a lot of people disappointed.  I'm disappointed, to be honest with you.  I think that's a really good team.  We just ran across a guy that was just really good tonight.  And but we'll bounce back.  We'll have a good practice tomorrow.  And we've got no choice.  We've got Alex on the mound, and we'll do whatever we need to do Tuesday and hopefully win and then move on.  Just take it one game at a time.  That's all we could do at this point.
Q. Could you talk about Dunning?  He's been really, really good for you here the last three or four -- all season, but particularly the last three or four weeks -- what's he been doing pitch-wise and mentally-wise to be this good?
COACH O'SULLIVAN: It comes down to the same thing.  It's about location.  He's got good sink to his fastball.  He's got a breaking ball and a change-up that he throws for strikes.  And his location has been good.  He's probably been one of our, if I were to single out two or three guys, MVPs, he'd have to get a lot of votes, at least from me.  He's been really valuable for us.
Q. Your thoughts about going with Faedo on the mound for Tuesday's game, the kind of season he's had for you, how do you feel about having the ball in his hands?
COACH O'SULLIVAN: Feel great.  He's been great for us all year long.  I watched a little bit of the TCU-Texas Tech game and I think they got, like, six right-handers in the lineup.  So we'll run him out there.  I feel great with him on the mound.  And I feel very confident but we're going to have to obviously swing the bats a little bit better.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT