THE RYDER CUP MATCHES
September 18, 2004
Chris DiMarco
Jerry Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Are you disappointed not being able to make par on 18?
JAY HAAS:  You know, I think the wheels were coming off all four of us coming in.  I drew kind of a bad lie on my pitch shot there and just didn't get it up-and-down.  Hit a good putt.  But I have to say, two tough competitors.
Q.  You guys are leading off again this afternoon, how important is it to go out and do well once again?

CHRIS DiMARCO:  Yeah, it's huge.  We hung in there and we made some good putts and kept it going.   It's going to be important to go out and make some putts early.
JAY HAAS:  I guess the last seven holes, we were up early and they came back a little bit.  We knew it would be very difficult.  We had to play close to our best to stay with them.  You know, a halve, we certainly would have liked the full point.
Q.  You've come back in the morning rounds to get this back into a competition, so you have to be looking forward to the afternoon?

CHRIS DiMARCO:  Absolutely.  I think we really gelled together well.  Jay played really good this morning.  Hopefully my game is going to come out this afternoon.  It was fun.  These guys, they had some chances on 17 and 18, so definitely the ball was in their court coming down the stretch.  We were lucky to get a half a point as it turned out, and half a point is better than a loss.
JAY HAAS:  That last hole, it's a shame we couldn't have got a 4 and got away with a full point.  Obviously we didn't want to lose it, but Sergio missed a pretty makeable putt at 17.

I had a great opportunity there from the middle of the fairway.  Just didn't hit it real solid coming up there.  Drew a pretty poor lie on my pitch shot.  A little disappointed, but not as disappointed as if he would have made the putt.
Q.  As a team, the goal had to be to make a big comeback this morning.
JAY HAAS:  Yeah, it looks good.  Hal told us to go out and try to do our damnedest to get on the right side of that leaderboard.  We did it early and didn't quite hold onto it, but it's great for everybody to see the red, everybody up, at least all-square.  It just makes you feel like you're not climbing uphill all day.

So we need to keep the same format in the afternoon, we've got to be positive.  We can't just hold our own or lose points.  We've got to chew into that lead.  We did a good job this morning but we still have a long way to go.
Q.  When you see some of that red, is that what creates that energy?  There was great energy out there.
JAY HAAS:  Oh, there was.  I think the crowd definitely got into it.  I think they took the gloves off a little bit out there.  Yeah, that means a lot to you.  I think, you know, you can sense when you hear the roars and the "USA" and things like that.  We didn't give them much to cheer about yesterday, by a long shot.  So you could tell that the right guys on our side were doing the job today.
Q.  You have to also be careful you don't put too much pressure on yourself.
JAY HAAS:  Yeah, you can only do so much.  You can only hit one shot at a time.  You can have the greatest game plan in the world, but if you don't hit the shots and don't put it close to the hole and don't make the putts, the game plan goes out the window.

I played very well for me.  Sergio and Lee, I don't know if they played their best, but it was a tight match.  You know, when you're even the whole way, the last seven holes, we were even, one blink and the other team is going to take over.  It makes it a little harder to be aggressive.  We were just fortunate that they didn't hit those last two putts.
Q.  Any nerves at the start?
JAY HAAS:  I felt good all day today.  Hopefully I will continue to feel that way.  I feel great right now.

Chris and I have been teaming together real well.  We feed off each other.  We had a good day yesterday in the alternate-shot, so hopefully that will continue and carry over to today.  We will just see.  Again, our game plan is to go out strong and try to get red on the board but we have to hit the shots.
Q.  How was the meeting last night?
JAY HAAS:  Well, it was laid back, it was jovial and then we got our ass chewed.  You know, any time -- if we didn't respond I think we were going to get our ass chewed again tonight I think (laughing) but that's okay.  You know, we didn't perform yesterday as a team and that's what it's all about.  So we had to come out today.

We all wonder why it takes getting behind to turn it on, so to speak.  I think you play a little freer from behind.  I think we need to continue to do that.  We need to continue to be positive and aggressive.  You know, the momentum is on our side but we have to continue it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT