SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 23, 2015
Jerry Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Great round.  You're really hot right around the turn there.  JERRY HAAS: Yeah, I made a -- the 8th hole has killed me there, a seven and a six.  So I drove it just in the rough and hit a poor chip and then 3-putted. Then I had to lay up on 9.  I hit a really great drive I thought and it went just through in the rough.  And I laid up to the right and had a hundred yards on the nose and made a birdie there.  Made a nice putt. Then I had 80 yards into 10, hit a nice shot out of the rough to about 15, 18 feet and made that. Then 11, I was in the right rough and caught a perfect 8-iron out of there and it hit and landed how I wanted, chased back to the shelf.  And I made about a 15-footer. Then I 3-putted 12 and 3-putted 13. Made a good save on 14, 15, and 16. Then, I hit a nice 7-iron on 17. And then 18, I hit a really great drive.  I had 135, kind of down cut in.  Hit a pitching wedge and I never would have dreamt I would have had a pitching wedge into that hole in the practice rounds. But I hit a really great drive and I knew when I hit it I thought, oh, that should be perfect.  And it ended up about a foot and a half away.  And I snuck it in somehow, barely made it.  The only struggle is on my short putts.  I'm better off from 15, 18 feet, sometimes, than I am from two feet.  So, it's strange.  It's strange. But it was out there today.  I think that, I know there was a couple 68s and I see the leaders are kind of 1-under today and kind of in that area. But 16 was no gimmie.  Par-5.  You had to drive it well. 17, the pin's in the back.  That's a tough pin to get to. 18, there will be some birdies.  But you got to drive it well. Shoot, I drove it just in the right rough on 8 and made six. I drove it in the rough on a couple other holes and couldn't, for me, I can't get to the green.  I'm not strong enough to get it out of there. And, looking back, I think you really have to get it out of the rough and back into the fairway. Number 8, I hit a really good shot out of there.  I thought it was going to carry, run to the front left fringe and be perfect.  But it hit and went down by the bunker in the grass and I hit a weak chip, just a gutless weak chip.  No two ways to say anything more about it than that.   Q.  I saw you chatting with your brother.  What were you talking about?  JERRY HAAS: I was hoping he was around.  I didn't know what he was shooting.  We never, they were ahead of us, I never could catch him.  But he was happy I birdied the last.  And I think he's struggling with his back a little bit more than he'll let on.  You're 61 and he's getting a little older, and he's still, I've enjoyed being with him this week for sure. It was nice to -- actually, a lot of times out there, I was trying to play fast so I could get up there and see what he was doing.  Only time I could really talk to him was 9 tee and then I just made six, I didn't feel like talking to anybody, so.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT