PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2006
Jerry Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JERRY HAAS:  It's a hard golf course to play.  Going in, I'm like, well, if I bogey every hole I can shoot    you can't think that way, but practice rounds I'm hitting 4  and 5 iron into No. 18.  Today I hit a good drive and had 8 iron in there.  But at the same time I'm over the shot thinking don't try and get too fancy, and I hit it in the right fringe over there and I made par.

I don't think very aggressively.  I'm just trying to get out of danger's way.  Just anything to kind of keep it moving, try to get it    if I drove it in trouble I just pitched out basically.

But all in all, I played better than I thought I would, quite honestly.  Hopefully I can get through tomorrow.  I had this in the Open at Bethpage.  I woke up last night and my tee shirt was just soaking wet, just having the heebie geebies.  That's no fun.

I'd much rather play somewhere if I hit it in the rough, I've got an 8 iron in out of the rough and enjoy it a little bit.  Obviously playing with my brother was great and Paul Broadhurst was very nice, too.
Q.  How much more comfortable    obviously maybe not that much more, was it playing with Jay?  Did that help reduce a little bit of nervousness?
JERRY HAAS:  Yeah, maybe a little bit.  I think it actually probably hurt his game a little bit.  He's too worried about what I'm doing and pulling for me maybe to play all right and do things.  But Jay birdied the first hole and then had about an eight footer on No. 11 and missed it, and then we both drove it in the rough on 12 and made bogeys.  Then 13, he hit it in the left rough, and he made 7 there.  That kind of got him going the wrong way.

Shoot, I had some good shots.  I hit a nice turning 3 wood on 16.  I had 186 yards or something up there, and I hit the best 5 iron I've ever hit and it landed about two feet past the hole and went to the back edge of the green, so I had a 35 footer, two of my best shots.  Next hole I hit a 5 iron just to hit over the water, and I got up and down from over the green.  I just can't hit it high enough.  I wouldn't say far enough.  I hit it far enough, but I'm out of my element.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT