LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 23, 2002
Laurie Brower
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR:  Nice 67.  Could you go over your score card. 
LAURIE BROWER:  Sure.  I had seven birdies and looks like I had two bogeys.  One 3-putt on 13 and a bogey on 14, the par 5. 
MODERATOR:  How did you bogey that one? 
LAURIE BROWER:  On 13, the 3-putt, I was pin-high, and that's really not the place to be on that hole.  You need to be below the cup on that hole for sure.  It broke about six feet, five feet. 
Then on 14, I just didn't hit a good approach shot.  My third shot wasn't a good shot.  So, you know, I was pin-high when I came in, and that putt breaks about 10 feet.  Those were my two bogeys. 
MODERATOR:  Can we do your birdies?  Do you remember the club you hit and the length? 
LAURIE BROWER:  Yes.  Let's see.  I started on  -- go to No. 2, the par 5 over here, I hit a 7-wood in there, but I had about a 40 foot putt. 
MODERATOR:  2-putt. 
LAURIE BROWER:  Yeah. 
No.  5, the other par 5 coming back this way, I hit a 5-iron in there and 2-putted that one for birdie. 
And then on 8, I hit a 3-wood off the tee and a wedge to about four feet, just below the cup, which is what you have to do there.  I made that putt. 
Then on 9, I made birdie.  3-wood off the tee, hit a 9-iron in there about, I don't know, 15 feet or so, put it on the right edge and it dropped in. 
11, the par 3, I chipped in for birdie.  It was actually my second hole.  Just short of pin-high on the right there, chipped in there. 
Then I bogeyed 13 and 14. 
Then my birdie on 17.  I birdied 17 and 18, so 8, 9, 17 and 18.  That's nice. 
Let's see.  17, I knocked it right above the cup about 10 feet and made the putt.  Hit a 9-iron in there. 
Then 18, gosh, they're almost identical, about 15 feet away, and knocked that putt in. 

Q.  How does your round today compare to what you've done so far this year?
LAURIE BROWER:  It's been hard to play this year.  I had a good round last week, played pretty well last week.  I was like in fourth last -- we had to finish one day and then the rest of it. 
I'm kind of on the verge of getting ready to play well, because now I've played like two tournaments back to back, which helps.  One tournament a month is not a good way to get going, so...

Q.  You played The Corning before?
LAURIE BROWER:  Oh, yeah.  You've got to come to Corning.

Q.  How do you normally do here?
LAURIE BROWER:  I usually play this tournament well.  I was trying to think back.  I think there was one time I think I was in like tied for seventh or something like that going into maybe the last day, I think, and didn't finish it off right.  But I was playing with Lopez and could hardly hold my club on the first tee (laughter).  I was young. 

Q.  Players earlier this week were saying how long the course was playing.  The weather conditions are different.  How is that affecting it?
LAURIE BROWER:  If you played here so many times, you almost automatically know the bounces, the rolls, what the green is going to do.  You know, your memory just automatically clicks in.  Yeah, you have to almost not second-guess but come pretty close to second-guessing yourself today because it's not doing  -- normally you'll get 10 yards' release on certain holes if you land it short of the green.  Today that wasn't happening.  Normally, you had to play on the front of the green, let the ball roll out. 
Today on some of the holes, some of them, you had to kind of figure out which ones you could fly it right at the flag. 
They're starting to get firm out there right now.  By Sunday it will be back to Corning. 

Q.  So everything people were learning earlier in the week you can forget and start over again?
LAURIE BROWER:  Exactly.  What you did in the practice round, ProAm, other than tee balls and all, but the rest of it, you know, your approach shots are going to be changing.  Of course, I played in the snow on Monday, so... (Laughter).

Q.  You just mentioned you were playing the last two holes each round pretty well.  Is that a nice feather in the cap, to keep in the back of your head?
LAURIE BROWER:  Yeah.  I don't mind birdie-ing 7 and 8, 17 and 18.  That's nice.  Of course, having two birdies when the round's over is a nice way to end up, too.  Yeah, I'd like to do that again tomorrow (laughter). 
MODERATOR:  Thank you. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT