UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 16, 2019
Ian Book
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Notre Dame, 52 - Navy, 20   
 Q.  What can you say about how much Chase has developed this season, and what do you think has been the key to him taking his game up a notch?  
IAN BOOK: He's having an awesome year. I would say it's starting to show on Saturdays because of how hard he's working during the week in practice. He's taking the next step Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday in practice. Not only going out there and just working hard every day, but being a leader, too. That's excelled his game a ton.   
He's someone that all the receivers look to. He's someone our whole offense looks to be a leader, and he's doing that and he's showing that with his play as well.   
 Q.  Third down pass to Keys where you're rolling to your left, can you walk through the mechanics of that. And a month ago, do you even have the confidence to even try to rip that?  
IAN BOOK: Go through play and how it happened?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
IAN BOOK: Probably should have thrown it to somebody else if we're going to be honest, just because of the look we had. It was really one of the plays I wanted back. Was able just to extend the play. I knew I wanted to go to my left with all the receivers already over on that side. Saw Keys coming to the sideline. Perfect. I knew I had some space.   
I'm confident enough to make that throw, and glad it worked out. He did a great job of really working for me as well when I am moving around. All the receivers working for me to make a play and not giving up, and he did a great job with that.   
 Q.  I realize you've always said, I'm a confident guy. But last week, this week, back to back, the way the Virginia Tech game ended, is this as good as you've felt since you've been the starting quarterback here?  
IAN BOOK: Yeah, I feel great. I'm confident with all the guys on this team. The defense is doing an awesome job getting us the ball. They play so well and give us so many opportunities. And then our offense is starting to roll. It's awesome. We've got ten other guys on the field that are playing for each other, and that's when you find success.   
I am definitely really confident, and this whole offense should be.   
 Q.  Congratulations on a dominant performance by your team.  
IAN BOOK: Thank you.   
 Q.  You delivered two long touchdown passes in the first half. How much of an area of emphasis is throwing the long ball and completing those passes been for you over the last year?  
IAN BOOK: You know, as a quarterback obviously those are huge plays. You know, really it's when you get those opportunities making the most of it. We got some guys that can really run on the outside. When Lenzy takes off it's my job to throw it and make sure I get it to him.   
When you hit big plays it just opens up your whole playbook, opens up a lot of things offensively for us. So it's a huge part of the game. We were able to have that work out tonight.   
 Q.  But it hasn't always been a part of your forte.  
IAN BOOK: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  After tonight are you feeling more confident? We're talking about confidence here.  
IAN BOOK: Yeah, a lot of people have been on me a little bit for the deep ball. I've never -- I've always been confident that I can throw the deep ball. It's just getting the right looks and letting it rip.   
Nothing special. It's not like every day we go and everyone is like, You got to hit the deep ball always. It's not like that. I know I can do it and I'm confident, and I know those guys are going to get the ball when I throw it.   
Again, you have those opportunities, and it's about making those in big games. That's what happens.   
 Q.  What's the conversation like with Chase when he gets on a roll like that play to play? Is he a demanding-the-ball kind of guys? How do you know when he's really feeling it?  
IAN BOOK: You know, Chase always has the juice. He's always talking and he's such a confident person, like he should be. You can tell when he gets on a roll. You want to keep giving him the ball. Even though it might not be the clearest look, he's going to come down with it, and that's the best. Makes my job a lot easier.   
It's amazing being able to throw to him.   
 Q.  And then you look back at October, I think he had eight catches for the whole month. I know he's playing through some injuries. Is it as simple as that, that he wasn't 100%, or do you look back and wonder, how did that happen?  
IAN BOOK: Yeah, just everybody working together, playing for each other, opens up more opportunities. I wouldn't pinpoint one certain thing for that. He doesn't give up. He works hard every single day. It's paying off.   
 Q.  A lot was said and made of the team after the Michigan loss, how would you guys would respond. How do you feel like your team has responded in these last three games?  
IAN BOOK: Tremendously. We're playing for each other and that's all that matters. We love each other and we're all on the same page. We're a really good football team that can get rolling.   
That's what it's all always good and blocking out the noise, letting people say whatever they want. It really doesn't matter. It's about us. It's hard to win in November. We're doing that, and we've got to keep it going and there is no better feeling than that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT