NL DIVISION SERIES: BRAVES v GIANTS
October 7, 2010
Matt Cain
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Matt Cain. 

 Q. Matt, have you sought any advise or gotten any advise from anybody on the team, pitcher or otherwise, on your -- for your first playoff start? 
 MATT CAIN: No, not really. I've talked a little bit, but nothing in depth. Just trying to take it as another start. Obviously, it's going to be an exciting game, but really trying to control the emotions and go out there and pitch just like any other start. 

 Q. Matt, you mentioned controlling emotions. Were those involved in that game against the Padres last Friday, was it an issue or it was not that at all, it was something else? 
 MATT CAIN: I think that was definitely a very exciting game, because I had the opportunity to be able to close out those guys the first night. 
 So I think that was definitely a test. And I think that I'll use that to my advantage for tomorrow night and carry some of that, what I -- some of my mental preparation and how I felt during the game. And the good stuff and the bad stuff, I'll carry that in tomorrow. 

 Q. Matt, when you first came into the league, Matt Morris was instrumental in helping you adjust and make adjustments. Have you talked to him recently, or even back then, about what starting a post-season game would be like? 
 MATT CAIN: I think the biggest thing he always said was it's fun, it's exciting, there is not a whole lot you can put on to it. I think it's really just trying to get the nerves out in the bullpen and let all that energy out in the first pitch or so. And after that, it just kinda starts flowing like normal. But that first pitch or so is always a little bit nerve-wracking.

 Q. Matt, how much attention have you paid to Tommy Hanson this year and have you noticed that he pitched well and not gotten a lot of run support? 
 MATT CAIN: I haven't seen any of his starts and the short time he's been up, he's thrown the ball well and he's thrown it well against us, but I haven't noticed his run support or anything like that. 

 Q. Matt, you usually don't pitch right after Tim. There is usually a lefty in between you. Does that change how you look at tonight's game? 
 MATT CAIN: I always watch Tim, especially when he throws the same series that I do. I always try to feed off what he does against some guys. So we throw different in a lot of ways, but then, again, we have some similarities. So I'll try to cheat off him and see what goes on. 

 Q. Matt, obviously you're going to be focused on the competitive aspect, but is there any satisfaction out of, I guess, having seen this rebuilding process through with the Giants during your career? 
 MATT CAIN: Yeah, for sure. From when I first came up to really not having much of a chance of makin' it, you know, into September sometimes, to being able to play now, the past couple of years. We've been having a lot of fun all year and playing ball real well. It's definitely fun and it's a test to what the management has done and what they wanted to do with the players, to push us to keep going out there and believing in ourselves, that we can be as good as we are now and to keep pushing us through the system. 

 Q. Matt, have you had a chance to talk to Barry since the decision not to put him on the roster? Is it a strange feeling to be moving forward without him on the roster? 
 MATT CAIN: I haven't actually talked to him. 

 Q. You know whenever you have a game plan for a team, you identify the one or two guys you don't want to beat you. McCann leads this team and he's only got 77 RBIs, obviously a dangerous hitter. Who would be the guys in that lineup? 
 MATT CAIN: There's a lot of the guys, a lot of the guys on their team can be those guys. McCann obviously is the guy that you know from their team. But D. Lee, is a guy that's swinging the bat well, swung the bat well over the weekend. You know you've got from Heyward to Infante and keeping the first guys off the bags can work to put pressure on the middle guys. 

 Q. Matt, can you talk about your expectations when Buster was called up and if he has far exceeded those expectations for you guys? 
 MATT CAIN: He definitely has. We all had big expectations for Buster, but for him to have the year that he had this year was pretty amazing. And to go ahead and step up and take over the staff and control the pitching staff the way that he did throughout this last month, I think shows how mature he is and how great I think he's going to be down the road. 

 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Matt.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT