NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: CARDINALS v GIANTS
October 21, 2012
Matt Cain
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   We are hearing about these pregame speeches.   What does it mean to you, what does it mean to players to hear these things from Pence or Bochy, does it carry over into a game?
MATT CAIN:   Yeah, I think it does.   And I think we all know what situation we're in.   So it's not really something that has to be said.   But I think it's just something that really gets the guys together and gets them thinking about let's go out there and leave it out there.   Whatever happens, happens. 
It gets everybody on the same mindset.   We all understand what situation we face.   But I think it's good.   I think it's great for all the guys to really get on the same page.

Q.   You guys didn't face an elimination game in 2010.   And this is your 5th tonight.   What do you think is the mindset, why is this team thriving in this situation?
MATT CAIN:   You know, I don't really know.   But for some reason it seems like ‑‑ I wouldn't say we like it, but it seems like guys are playing really well when we get in this situation.   Guys are just kind of letting it all hang out and it seems to be working out really well.

Q.   How closely do you watch Ryan approach these guys tonight?   In some sense you are both right‑handed pitchers, and you know what you have to do against St. Louis.   Do you know what you've got to do tomorrow, anyway?
MATT CAIN:   I've got an idea of what I'd like to do tomorrow.   I'm definitely going to pay attention to what he is doing.   Vogey studies real hard on trying to find weaknesses on the guys. 

Q.   Have you ever pitched a win‑it‑all game, high school, at any level?
MATT CAIN:   We had a game my senior clear of high school that was to go to state against our rival school.   But that didn't work out so well for me.
But then I think the game against Cincinnati was it.   That was the game that ‑‑ and I thought back to that game in high school.   I thought about what I did then.   I know it's a long time in between.   But I tried to use that, go out there and still have fun with it, enjoy it, not put too much on to it.

Q.   Just as a follow‑up to that, a lot of guys in the clubhouse made fun of Bumgarner two years ago when he said it was just like pitching in the high school championship game.   Were you one of those guys?   Now that you just said that, that you did sort of draw upon that, do you get a sense of what he was talking about two years ago?
MATT CAIN:   Yeah, he was, especially for him it wasn't that far apart from it (laughter).   He was, what, three years difference from pitching in high school and all of a sudden now he's pitching in the biggest stage in baseball, in the World Series.
I don't remember if I was one of those guys that made fun about it.   I probably did.   But that's ‑‑ in a way, that's a lot of times what this game is.   You almost have to revert back when you were in Little League because the game is about having fun.   And sometimes when you put too much on to it it kind of ruins the moment for you and you don't end up playing as well as you'd like to if you put too much pressure on yourself.

Q.   After watching Barry struggle as much as he did for five years what's the feeling among you guys to see the success that he's had knowing the work that he's put to get where he is, that culminated with the game he pitched the other night?
MATT CAIN:   To me it just shows what kind of class he has as a person, as a teammate and as a friend.   And then it showed his professionalism.   He never stopped trying to find ways to get better throughout the years that he struggled.   And throughout all the criticism and everything, he kept fighting and trying to find ways to do things different.   And it really, really paid off the other day when he stepped up big for us.   And he went out there and pitched great. 
You could see that from the beginning on.   He had that aura around him that, hey, I'm going to let you guys hop on my back.   I'm going to throw well tonight, you guys score a couple of runs for us and he did a great job of that.

Q.   From the outside you had a different look in Game 3 of this series.   Seems like you were hitting your spots a little more.   Did you have a different feel on the mound in Game 3 against ‑‑ in this series than you did in the first starts you had in the postseason?
MATT CAIN:   I felt like I probably had the best command I had out of the three starts was the other day against the Cardinals.   I felt like I was ‑‑ it took me a while to settle in the first game against the Reds.   It was the energy and everything going.   I wasn't really overdoing anything, but it was like the nerves and kind of being over‑hyper and stuff like that.
But I felt like the other day was the best stuff that I had and I'll try to be able to take that into tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT