MLB WORLD SERIES: RANGERS v GIANTS
October 27, 2010
Matt Cain
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Is there any advantage for being able to sit and watch tonight just to see how they approach things? I know you have scouting reports, but any advantage to watching them live before you pitch?   
 MATT CAIN: Yeah, I definitely think it will. Kind of see a little bit of their game plan against Timmy and then kind of just maybe watch a little bit of their at-bats. But I think definitely it'll be helpful to see it live tonight.   
  
  Q. How have you been doing so far with kind of the sporadic rest versus the regular routine of the regular season? Have you come out kind of strong early with the extra rest or just how has it been working?  
 MATT CAIN: It's been fine. You know, you've just got to -- you make a little about of a new routine in between the starts. You try to stay on your same running program and if you have to add a bullpen here and there, you do what you have to do.  
  
  Q. Is there some concern with that camera over the field? You were out there checking it out and is that resolved?  
 MATT CAIN: We were just checking out what it would be and where it would be at. It won't be any problem when the game is in play or anything like that. It was just kind of being able to tell the guys where it's going to be and what times it's going to be used and stuff like that.   
  
  Q. All the media are giving the series to Texas before it even starts. I know that even if you guys say you don't read and hear that stuff, it has to filter into the clubhouse. What are some of the guys saying today about the fact that you pretty much are given no chance?   
 MATT CAIN: I mean, that's pretty much any game, I think. They favor one team over the other. So we're excited about playing and we feel confident in ourselves and our team and the group of guys that we have. So if that's what they're writing, I guess we'll have to change it.   
  
  Q. What sort of impact did Bengie Molina have on you when he was here?   
 MATT CAIN: He was great. He helped me tons. Every time I went out there and started he was the guy that I was able to talk to in between starts and maybe figure out -- pick his brain a little bit of ways to pitch to guys and do things, and he did a great job of really opening up my eyes, and I think probably a lot of other guys' eyes of how to pitch to guys.   
  
  Q. Bochy has talked about the cast of characters you have here. Can you describe Aubrey Huff's presence in the clubhouse and what he's meant to the team on the field.   
 MATT CAIN: I'd say he's probably a notch below Wilson. I think Wilson is better because he's a little wittier. That's the only reason that I can give him a notch above. But Huff has been a huge attribute that we've had from spring until now. He's been a guy that's not afraid to liven stuff up in the dugout, on the field and in the clubhouse. I think the biggest thing is he's able to take some of his fun and relaxed ability out to the field, and bring that into some of the rotation.   
  
  Q. Do you think you guys have actually gotten better or developed in some ways during the post-season? And if so, how?   
 MATT CAIN: We feel like we have. You know, we've had to find ways to get stuff done. You know, it hasn't always come the easiest way. We've got to find ways to get guys over, drive guys in in different situations, and I think it's really grown -- made the group of guys we have grow together and really lean on each other. Hey, let's be confident in everybody and everybody feels like they can all get a job done somehow.   
  
  Q. You take a look at their lineup, they scored more runs against the Yankees in one series than the Phillies and Braves scored against you guys in two series. It's pretty formidable. How do you plan on attacking that lineup?  
 MATT CAIN: We're going to go at those guys just like we've pitched to anybody else. We're going to try to throw a lot of strikes, try to take the pop out of their bat and really pitch to our ability and go to our strengths and try to keep those guys off the bases as much as possible.   
  
  Q. You're 26 years old and you're the longest-tenured guy on this team. We've asked you after many, many starts where you didn't get the runs or where the team finished under .500, during any of those struggles of '08 or '09 did you ever have any those grass-is-greener type of thoughts about going someplace else or having the opportunity to be someplace else?  
 MATT CAIN: No, we've always felt like we had a good group of guys here ever since I've been here. We've had our tough times, and we've always gone through our good spurts and our bad spurts. But obviously this year has changed where we've gone through our bad spurts but haven't worried about it, just popped right back out of it whereas in years past we might have sat in those ruts for a little bit longer. I think that's what has made this year special.   
 But it's also helped, I think, a ton of us to get out of those ruts this year because of stuff we've gone through in the past.   
  
  Q. How do you sleep the night before a start in the World Series?  
 MATT CAIN: Close your eyes. (Laughter).   
 I mean, you've got to try to take it like a normal start. You try to do your similar things, prepare, and try not to pump it up too much while you're sitting there trying to go to bed. But obviously it's going to be exciting. You'll probably wake up a little earlier than you want to, but that's the fun part, knowing that's your day to work and go out there and have a lot of fun.   
  
  Q. How do you feel like you fit in the kind of dynamic of the young starters that you have? It seems like there are different approaches, different personalities and everything else, and Dave Righetti mentioned yesterday that once you knew Buster Posey was good to work with, everybody kind of followed that lead. Are you any sort of leader in that kind of capacity?  
 MATT CAIN: I have no idea. I mean, obviously we appreciated having Bengie over here, and when Buster was sharing time with him, both of those guys started working seemed like almost together and getting on the same page. Hey, this is what this guy likes to do, and Buster really, when he stepped in full-time, has done a great job of really trying to figure out what the pitcher wants to do, trying to call his game so there's not a lot of downtime in between, there's not a lot of mound meetings. And he's done a great job of just going out there and really taking over and finding out what we want to throw and showing also the confidence if he's maybe iffy on the pitch or something, he has the confidence to put it down there, and we'll throw it.   
  
  Q. The Yankees determined that they were not going to let Josh Hamilton beat them. Is he still the guy that you have to be particularly aware of?   
 MATT CAIN: I think he definitely is. He's definitely the guy that's done obviously a ton of damage throughout the year and in the post-season, so he's the guy that you've got to watch out for. But they've got plenty of other guys that can do the damage, as well. So you can't just sit there and focus on him. You've got to take care of the rest of the guys, as well.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT