VERIZON INDYCAR SERIES: GOPRO GRAND PRIX OF SONOMA
August 30, 2015
Juan Pablo Montoya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: We will get started with our post‑race press conference now. We are joined by Juan Pablo Montoya, driver of the No.2 Team Penske Chevrolet who finished sixth in the race today, which left him in a tie with points for the championship and Scott Dixon wins on the tiebreaker. Juan, if you could just summarize your day, first of all. 
JUAN PABLO MONTOYA: We had a good car. We had a good start, and you know, we did everything we needed to do at the beginning. Will overshot and I was fighting with Newgarden, we shot the corner, we got inside and he cut across and I was there, and we touched and that was it. We came from behind and do our best, just wasn't enough. It's tough there, tires are going off, and it's one of those days. As I told you, it could happen, and it happened. It sucks, but when you make double points the last race in a road course and you change the tire and you do everything you did for this weekend and you put so many variables, it doesn't even matter what you do all year. Dixon had a shit season all year and had one good race, and we paid the penalty. 
THE MODERATOR: Once that incident happens, you have to obviously shift gears mentally and change your strategy. What were you doing to get yourself back into the picture? 
JUAN PABLO MONTOYA: Nothing. We did what we needed to do, and we ran as hard as we could, and that was it. 

Q. Juan, you've said all weekend long that this would be nice, but it's been a good year. You've succeeded in the things you wanted to do. So you did succeed in the things you set out to do this year. 
JUAN PABLO MONTOYA: Yeah, we had a great year. We opened the year with a win and we won the Indy 500 and led the points all year. Yeah, we did‑‑ as I said, it would have been great if we could close it, and there were so many variables, we got through Mid‑Ohio and here again, and that's what it is. It's racing, and we move on. 

Q. You took up with the rules of the double points, do you think it needs to change sort of? 
JUAN PABLO MONTOYA: Well, we'll see if they change it, but they like the excitement for the last race. Is it fair? No, but we go into the last race of the year knowing it's a double‑points race. Is it fair for a normal championship? No, it's not fair, but it's the rules they want to play with, and if you don't like the rules, don't race. 

Q. How hard is it to accept that you led all year long and here at the last second‑‑ 
JUAN PABLO MONTOYA: It wasn't that bad. I had like 45 laps to figure it out, or 50 laps or something. So no, it wasn't that hard. I did everything I could. I drove my butt off as hard as I could. Just luck of the draw, I guess. 
THE MODERATOR: Juan Pablo, thank you very much. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT