INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
March 25, 2019
Juwan Morgan
Devonte Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions for the players.
Q. Devonte, when is the last time you dominated the boards like that?
DEVONTE GREEN: Freshman year (smiling).
Q. Coach talked about they have big guards.  That will be a component tomorrow night.  Guards are going to have to rebound.
DEVONTE GREEN: Yeah, we definitely are.  Their guards crash the boards hard both ends of the floor.
Q. Juwan, they've got a couple big guys that you have to deal with right around the rim, McDuffie, a guy that can play big, small.  What is the challenge this front court will present you?
JUWAN MORGAN: I think you nailed it on the head.  They have a lot of low versatility, a lot of big guys.  They can play any which way really.  They have guys that are good around the basket, also good at altering shots without fouling.
It's going to take a high-level focus, keying in on finishing around the basket, driving and kicking, not trying to challenge shot-blockers.
Q. After you got past the disappointment of not playing in the NCAA tournament, the crowd that was here on Saturday had to be electrifying to you.  How do you feed off of that?
JUWAN MORGAN: Just them giving us energy on defensive plays, great plays that we have.  I think they did a great job just cheering us on.  I think we did a good job giving them something to cheer for.
Q. Juwan, this is the first time you're certain this is your last game in Assembly Hall.  Have you thought about that at all?
JUWAN MORGAN: No.  I think all the emotions with it being my last game went out at Rutgers.
Just another game.  Got to be ready to play and come out to win.
Q. Barring anything unforeseen, you'll finish in the top 25 scorers of all time here.  Given the history of the program, what does that mean to you?
JUWAN MORGAN: It's a lot of points.  That's a lot of points to be scored.  Couldn't do it without all the teammates I've had all four years.
Q. Coach said something, once you get past the first game in this tournament, you're back to playing ball.  Does this feel normal again?  You've been past the emotional points, not making the tournament, do you feel like you're back to playing basketball games again?
JUWAN MORGAN: I definitely think that.  You could kind of tell after they announced the tournament field, all the guys were disappointed, nobody really wanted to practice or anything.
I think once the actual game day got here, guys had a different mentality.  Guys were ready to play.  As you can see, we won the last two.  I think guys are feeling more and more great about going into this post-season.
Q. Devonte, does this feel like normal basketball again?
DEVONTE GREEN: I would agree.  I think after the disappointment, we got that out of the way, I think we just started to play basketball again.
Q. Devonte, if you're fortunate enough to win tomorrow night, NYC.  A good carrot?
DEVONTE GREEN: Definitely a great season, how I'd like to end the season.  Always fun playing in front of a home crowd.
Q. How many people do you think would be there?  What would the support be like back for you in New York?
DEVONTE GREEN: There would be a lot of people there (smiling).
Q. Devonte, over the weekend one of your tattoos was getting a lot of interest on the Internet.  Talk a little bit about what it means to you.
DEVONTE GREEN: I mean, I was surprised when I seen it was everywhere.  I mean, I don't know.  I don't really know.  What is the question?
Q. The GTA tattoo.
DEVONTE GREEN: I thought of it when I was just thinking of tattoo ideas.  I was like, Well, basketball-wise I think I'm a cheat code.  People tell you you're a cheat code, you can't play.  Maybe I should get a cheat code tatted.  Went down the GTA list, that one's perfect.
Q. When did you get that?
DEVONTE GREEN: I think back in August last year.
Q. Why didn't you tell us?
DEVONTE GREEN: I don't know (laughter).  Surprised you noticed.
Q. Devonte, 37 minutes last two games.  How hard has that been on your body?  Are you fine playing through that?
DEVONTE GREEN: Without Romeo, I know that I might have to play more minutes.  I mean, I practice hard every day of the week.  It's not anything new really.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT