INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 22, 2018
Juwan Morgan
Aljami Durham
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Indiana 94, Jacksonville 64   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Juwan, I don't know if you're into mathematical symmetry or not.  You had the triple-double today.  You played 30 minutes, your plus-minus was 30 and your team won by 30.  Any comment?  
JUWAN MORGAN: No comment (smiling).   
No, I just think it was a great offensive scheme throughout the whole game.  I think we really had trust in each other throughout the whole game, trust in them for finding me, reciprocating that, finding them and getting open shots.   
 Q.  What does it mean to you to be one of only two guys in this school to ever do that here?  
JUWAN MORGAN: It means a lot.  Triple-double is very hard to come by.  You don't see too many people do that.  This is the second one in school history.  I really don't know what to say.   
 Q.  At what point did you realize you were working on it?  
JUWAN MORGAN: Johnny was keeping me up to date on it.  He told me I only needed two more assists to get to 10, one more basket.  When I threw it to Al, I just kept telling him to shoot.  We were going down the court, Regardless, as soon as I throw it, shoot it.  He made it.  Give all glory to God.   
 Q.  Al, what does it say about Juwan?  
ALJAMI DURHAM: You just see all the hard work come into the light really.  He's a hard worker.  He does everything for us.  He's just a great guy.  I feel like, if anybody, he deserves this.  It's an honor to be a part of it with him.   
 Q.  Al, career high 18 points for you tonight.  What was working for you offensively?  
ALJAMI DURHAM: My teammates finding me and trusting me.  I feel like they had the confidence in me.  I was just knocking it down, as Juwan would say.   
 Q.  Al, how comfortable are you in knowing where your shots are?  
ALJAMI DURHAM: We go over this in practice.  Nothing new to me.  We just get the reps in practice.  I feel like it translates to the game for me right now.   
 Q.  Juwan, you have this 12-day layoff coming up.  What do you feel this team needs to fine-tune before you get back into Big Ten play?  
JUWAN MORGAN: I think everything can use a little fine-tuning.  I think specifically starting off strong.  We had a couple games where we didn't do that as well.  I think tonight we were really coming out, weren't just throwing the ball away the first 10 possessions.  I think we really ran our stuff.  Just continuing to build off that.   
Also just staying connected on the defensive end, getting the stops early on, setting the tone for the rest of the game.   
 Q.  Why was the passing as good as it was tonight?  
JUWAN MORGAN: We had a couple games where we didn't do that, as well.  I really don't know.  I kind of feel like I always just pass that way.  Sometimes I pass more than others.  I think guys were doing good of finding gaps in the defense.  I was just finding them in those gaps.   
 Q.  That bounce pass you threw, best pass you've ever thrown, top five, top ten?  
JUWAN MORGAN: Top three (smiling).   
 Q.  Do you remember what else?  
JUWAN MORGAN: I've done that pass a couple times.  I just say all three of those are tied.   
 Q.  You had a 15-point lead at halftime, then came out and scored the first 10 points of the second half.  Was there an emphasis at halftime of a fast start in the second half?  
ALJAMI DURHAM: We didn't want to let up.  We wanted to keep our intensity up from the first half.  We wanted to come out strong, make sure we didn't miss a beat, I would say.   
 Q.  The team has really picked up the sharing of the ball.  The ball movement seems to really be improving for you guys.  
JUWAN MORGAN: Yeah, I would say it's just been a point of emphasis in practice.  The ball moves faster than anybody on the court.  I think finding open guys as quick as possible, advance pass, things like that, it really gives people confidence.  Confidence is contagious.   
ALJAMI DURHAM: To piggyback off of what he said, coach emphasized it into our offense.  I feel like we do it so much in practice, it's just translating over.   
 Q.  Juwan, I presume when you were sitting on eight points, coach called that inbounds play for you, did you know that was coming?  
JUWAN MORGAN: Yeah, he kind of said he wanted to get another triple-double.  So he called that up and we executed it.   
 Q.  Juwan, how valuable was it for a week like this when other guys were able to get a run?  How valuable was it to go into that holiday break building confidence?  
JUWAN MORGAN: I think you said it at the latter part of your statement, building confidence going into the Big Ten season.  We're going to need those guys at any time for them to step up, like Cliff at Penn State.  Whenever their number is called, they have to be ready.   
 Q.  Some guys, especially some young guys, have had to play a lot of minutes.  How important is this long break going to be for some of the younger guys to get fresh again?  
ALJAMI DURHAM: Say one more time.   
 Q.  A lot of the young guys on this team have had to play a lot of minutes in this season.  How important has this week been, then this break?  
ALJAMI DURHAM: I feel like a break from this will do them very well because they've been playing real hard, a lot of minutes.  This break will do good.  A couple days off, then when we come back, we're right back to it.   
 Q.  Juwan, back to the assist portion.  How much pride do you take in that number?  How have you developed that part of your game to become the passer you are?  
JUWAN MORGAN: I really don't know how.  I've never really done it, all the way up until I pretty much got here where I was not like the man any more.  I never passed.  I don't know where that came from (smiling).   
It's just something I've really taken pride in, getting other people shots.  I love when other people shine.  I love when those guys have great nights.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT