COUNTDOWN CLASSIC: INDIANA VS LOUISVILLE
December 31, 2016
James Blackmon Jr.
Juwan Morgan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Louisville - 77, Indiana - 62
Q. Coach talked about too many times shots not falling and not playing well on defense.  How do you break out of that?
JAMES BLACKMON JR.: There's not too many times where we're going to shoot as bad as we did tonight, so I don't think that we should just start focusing on offense more.  I think it's going to come more from defense, and we've just got to focus in on that and follow the game plan a little better.
Q. Does it feel like the offense just got stagnant, too much dribbling and going too deep in the shot clock?
JAMES BLACKMON JR.: I don't really think it got stagnant.  I just think that we didn't make our open shots today.  I know it'll get better, and we've just got to tighten up on things that we can control.
Q. James, the ability to prevent this from magnifying things, two in a row, maybe from a player leadership standpoint, what has to happen to turn this thing around?
JAMES BLACKMON JR.: We've just got to come together and know what type of team we are, have confidence in each other and just believe.  We were here before, so we've just got to come together as one group and figure out what works for us.
Q. James, I know you haven't been here for all of (indiscernible).  What do you think about playing in Indianapolis?
JAMES BLACKMON JR.: I really don't know.  Like you said, I wasn't here.  I don't look at it like that.  I look at it as a great opportunity to be here.
Q. Juwan, when you went down the other day, you looked like you were in a lot of pain.  Can you talk about from that moment until getting cleared today to play, what went on?
JUWAN MORGAN: Oh, I just went through a lot of treatment, a lot of strengthening and stuff like that to make sure there was stability and that it would hold in while out there because we knew it was going to be a battle down there in the trenches.  Just the doctors and all the strength coaches just making sure it was stable and would be able to with stand all that.
Q. James, Coach said the decision making has kind of been the team's achilles heel this season.  When you don't have Yogi Ferrell, what do you offer the rest of the guys?  How do you guys as a group do the decision making?
JAMES BLACKMON JR.: We've just got to step up.  We've got Josh, we've got Rob and me and also Devonte and Curtis to call to in those positions, so I don't think that that'll be a big huge problem for us.  We've just got to work more on it.
Q. Coach mentioned their length before the game.  When you're out there playing against it, how much of a factor is it?
JAMES BLACKMON JR.: It was a factor, but I just feel like it was more of us.  I don't think that they threw us off too much.  I think it was just things that we can control and do better on our part.
Q. You guys were really good at offensive rebounding.  What was working for you guys down there?
JUWAN MORGAN: Just use our quickness to get around them.  That's really all it was, and not accepting getting blocked out.
Q. What do you feel like the mental state of this team is after losing two games and now having Wisconsin coming in early next week?
JAMES BLACKMON JR.: It's got to be strong.  We can't look in the past or go back to games that we can't control.  We've got a great coaching staff, and we've just got to buy in and have a short-term memory and get a win on Tuesday.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT