INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 19, 2019
Juwan Morgan
Romeo Langford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Purdue - 48, Indiana - 46
JUWAN MORGAN: You can't really reach the highs until you have been through the lows.
Q. Romeo, not just in the last couple days, but through the struggles you guys have had the last couple months, what's Juwan been like in terms of staying vocal, keeping guys engaged and motivated?
ROMEO LANGFORD: He's been the leader that we've needed him to be through this hard time.  He hasn't shied away from this like stretch we're going on.  He's just become even more of a leader and that's what we need, and I think that's the reason these last couple days going up to Purdue we had such good practices.
Q. Juwan, I think the stats show you were 7 for 26 in the paint.  Was that them?  Was that the ball just not going down?  How do you explain that?
JUWAN MORGAN: I think it was a little bit of both.  They made it tough early on, and I think as -- when you see something just falling out, it's frustrating, not -- for the shots that we usually make, but at the same time, as a team we just have to regroup, be focused in and really concentrate on putting those down.
Q. On what ended up being the winning basket for Purdue, did you think that you had position on Haarms on the inside there when the Edwards shot kind of went off the rim, or how did you feel you were set up to get the rebound there?
JUWAN MORGAN: A hundred percent I think I had position.
Q. Can both you guys talk about the defense you played today?  It was much more intense, made it much more difficult for Purdue and certainly with Carson Edwards, who I think was something like 4 for 24.
ROMEO LANGFORD: We just looked at film from last time and tried to do the things we struggled with when it came to Carson Edwards and Ryan Cline, and we worked on that for the past few days, and I think that was the reason that we were so disruptive this time on defense, because we had a great two days to prepare for them, and that showed today.
Q. Juwan, do you feel this was you guys getting up for the rivalry game, or do you feel this is a change in intensity that can be maintained and sustained?
JUWAN MORGAN: I think it's a change in mentality, just that we have no choice but to maintain.  These last few games we still have a chance.  Everything we want is still in front of us, and I'm proud of how the guys fought today.  A couple shots here, a couple shots there, and it's a different ballgame, but at the same time, just on the defensive end we really didn't -- like you said, we went 7 for 27, whatever, in the paint, and we still were right there.  We were still fighting on defense, fighting after loose balls, and I think just going for it when shots aren't falling.  If we keep that mentality on the defensive end, then it's going to be a tough team to stop.
Q. Romeo, now your second time going up against Nojel Eastern kind of Head to Head.  What kind of things does he do to make life difficult for you kind of as a wing scorer?
ROMEO LANGFORD: He's just a real good defender, very physical.  He's big at his position.  But overall Purdue's defense as a team is real good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT