ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 5, 2018
Andrea Pavan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Bogey-free round of 63 out there.  What was going on?  That was brilliant?  
ANDREA PAVAN: To be honest I played well yesterday, as well.  Just struggled a little bit.  It was very tough yesterday with the wind.  I didn't put that well yesterday.   
Today I started off hitting it really close, and you know, I made those birdie putts within six, five feet, and then yeah, at the turn, I felt like, you know, I was hitting my irons well.  So yeah, just kept hitting it close and luckily I kept rolling it nicely.  So yeah, it was a very nice round.   
 Q.  The confidence must have kept growing as you made the turn, knowing the wind was holding off and perfect conditions for scoring?  
ANDREA PAVAN: Yeah, we knew that yesterday was going to be tough, and today and tomorrow, the wind is not going to be as strong.   
But at the same time, you know that it's for everyone the same and the scores will get lower.  When it's like that, you still have to make the putts and make the birdies.  As I said, yesterday I felt like I was hitting good putts.  Just couldn't read the lines.  Today, I felt like I got a lot of good lines.  Very pleased.   
I knew coming into this course, I had played well in the past, especially on this course.  So yeah, maybe that helped.   
 Q.  What about the mind-set then, tomorrow, after to Carnoustie, changing three courses each day.  Obviously it's a little bit different.  How do you approach that?  
ANDREA PAVAN: Yes, I think you have to adjust and you have to be more flexible and be a bit quicker in adjusting to the speed of the greens or the receptiveness and all that.   
We have a good plan.  We know the wind is going to probably switch off the north.  It will play a little different than Wednesday when I played there.  But overall, it's still a golf tournament and trying to stay aggressive and play within my own and we'll see what happens.   
 Q.  You must be pleased going into the weekend, tied for the lead, and then obviously with that experience of the wind earlier this year, a bit of confidence behind you, too.  
ANDREA PAVAN: Yes, definitely.  I mean, it's great to start playing well like this, and give myself chances.  All I can do is keep plugging along and playing well.  Right now, the focus is just to get out there tomorrow and just play each shot and to have a good game plan and then we'll see.  I mean, all you can do is try to play well and be within having a chance on Sunday afternoon.  That's all you can do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT