UBS HONG KONG OPEN
October 22, 2015
Andrea Pavan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What are your thoughts on 6-under to start?  
ANDREA PAVAN: Yeah, it's a great round of golf.  I can't complain.  This golf course, it's not very long, but it's tricky.  So just one bogey out there, and made a few saves.  But towards the end, I hit some lovely irons and obviously converted a few chances for birdies.  So that was very good.   
 Q.  It's not usually a course we would associate with a long hitter doing particularly well but I take it, you've put the ball in the right positions?  
ANDREA PAVAN: Yes, it's all about hitting fairways and giving yourself good chances, because the greens are small.  And if you're missing fairways, then you're going to struggle to hit it close.  It's tough to make birdies.   
So you're always struggling to save pars, pretty much on every course, but this one especially with the rough and the greens that are firming up.  I think since Tuesday, the course is playing a little firmer and a little shorter, as well.  I think tomorrow and the weekend, it's going to firm up, as long as it doesn't rain.   
You know, it's going to be a lot of -- not many drivers off the tee but into the greens, you really have to shape your irons and just be patient on the greens.  Obviously today was good on the greens but it's all about waiting for the putts to drop.   
 Q.  What was your attitude coming into this week given your lowly position on The Race to Dubai?  
ANDREA PAVAN: This year has been a struggle to say the least.  I'm just trying to big deep and really look forward to every week.  Obviously this is the last of the year, and then I'm looking to go to Q-School.  So it's all about just giving myself chances.   
So, you know, here, I'm just really trying to get my game in better shape.  It's good on the range.  I still feel like I'm lacking a bit of confidence.  Today I've managed to play very well for about 15 holes and then I had the occasional bad shot.   
So today I got away with it a couple times.  It's all about just waiting.  I know I have what it takes.  It's been tough last year and this year, but it's all a learning curve and I really hope I can make the next step soon.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT