ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 4, 2012
Andrea Pavan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Where did it you right for you today?
ANDREA PAVAN:   I just played well, you know, lucky we hadn ’t much wind the front nine and actually for the back nine for me, I played steady, gave myself a lot of birdie chances and I made a few so I did not make a bogey so it is nice always to go bogey-free.

Q.   Do you like links golf?
ANDREA PAVAN:   Yes I enjoy it, I played a lot of links golf as an amateur, I never played St Andrews before so Monday was my first time.

Q.   Did it live up to the hype?
ANDREA PAVAN:   Yes it was very nice, but it was quite breezy and a bit colder, but I still loved every minute of it.

Q.   And of the three courses, Kingsbarn is traditionally probably thought as the easier so you had to take advantage today …
ANDREA PAVAN:   Yes of course, but at the same time you still have to play well, which I did, and of course it is nice to get off to a good start and then hopefully keep playing well for the rest of the week.

Q.   You ’re a little bit down in the money list, so I guess you kind of need a big week just to push on and keep your card for next year?
ANDREA PAVAN:   Yes, I have four weeks left so if I can just get it back to my form that I had at the end of last year, I ’ll be fine.

Q.   How have you found your first year on Tour, has it been tough at times?
ANDREA PAVAN:   It has been at times because I didn ’t play as well, and you know my game started to struggle and my confidence kind of went away. I tried to build that back and today was a good round, so hopefully it ’s the start of a nice stretch.

Q.   Are you looking forward to the rest of the week?
ANDREA PAVAN:   Yes, we get to play tomorrow at St Andrews and then Carnoustie on Saturday and then hopefully play Sunday again at St Andrews, which would be great.

Q.   I assume like everyone else you watched the Ryder Cup on Sunday night?
ANDREA PAVAN:   Yes I was unbelievable, it was really intense to watch. Me and Lorenzo Gagli were here in Dundee watching it, it was a lot of fun to see but it was very intense, probably more intense to watch it than actually play it.

Q.   Do you know Franceso quite well at all?
ANDREA PAVAN:   Yes, I know him very well and I will see him next week in Portugal and I have lots of questions to ask him.

Q.   Could you get in touch with him after his round?
ANDREA PAVAN:   Yeah, I sent a text, but I guess he ’s been busy. We will have a nice chat next week and maybe play a practice round together, which will be nice.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT