BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
September 19, 2019
Andrea Pavan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Well-played today. How important is it to kind of get off to a good start, especially such a big week?
ANDREA PAVAN: Yeah, definitely. Good starts are always important. I feel like throughout the year, I generally don't have many good first rounds, so this is -- on a big week like this, it's good to start with a strong first round.
Q. Very impressive back nine, especially the finish on 18 makes it more pleasing. Just talk us through the eagle on 18?
ANDREA PAVAN: Yes, definitely. I played pretty well throughout the round. Yeah, it was nice to make a few birdies and a couple putts. But then on 18, I hit a good 3-wood off the tee. I thought I was a little further down, and I think I had about 229 -- yeah, 229 yards to the pin, and yeah, my caddie talked me into hitting a big cut with 2-iron, just playing for the back of the green. Hit a very good shot. Yeah, almost a 60-footer with at least like ten foot of break. I struck it. It looked nice. I thought it was a little fast but went in and it was great.
Q. How is the course playing? It looks in fantastic conditions. To play out there, does it play as well as it looks?
ANDREA PAVAN: Yes, conditions are great and this morning, early, it was pretty cold. So the ball wasn't going quite as far, and the rough was very wet. So if you were out of position, it was very difficult.
But you know, as I said, I played well, and I didn't miss a fairway I think until my 12th hole. So I was always in position, which is very important here.
Yeah, then it got warmer, and a little breeze starting to pick up. So just have to adapt, but this is the type of golf course -- so far, the weather's been fantastic, yeah. Very enjoyable.
Q. Is today a reflection on how well you've been playing recently?
ANDREA PAVAN: Yes, I think so. There's been a lot of good stuff lately. So yeah, just kind of trusting. Just keep working on the right things and then preparing well. I have my coach here this week, and had three days of good practice, and yeah, today wasn't great. I was 1-over after 11 holes, but just kept my head there and had a good finish.
Q. You've had a taste of victory this season. What would it mean adding a Rolex Series Event to that?
ANDREA PAVAN: That's totally different, but yeah, that would be amazing. Still first round, and so much golf to play. Just get ready for tomorrow. Only thing I can do is play my game, and if I'm close enough on Sunday, that would be great. You never know what can happen.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT