ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 13, 2019
Andrea Pavan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Five birdies, two eagles today.  Talk us through this round?
ANDREA PAVAN: Yeah, that was a good morning, I would say.  Yeah, just started off, I actually had a really bad warm-up.  Kind of run out of time on the putting and just kind of rushed through everything.
But I told my caddie, hey, I played some good rounds with a bad warm-up.  And then hit two okay shots down the first and then I hit about a 50-yard pitch shot.  I couldn't see it, and as soon as I hit it, like the crowd -- I was walking towards the hole and the crowd just went crazy, so I figured I made it, so that was a good start.
Yeah, just kept playing well.  Hit a lot of good shots.  I hit it close a lot, so that was good.
Q. And you really have had such a good round, and coming off the first two days when it wasn't quite your best, how was it going out as one of the first groups, and then managing to have such a surprising success?
ANDREA PAVAN: To be honest, the first day I played, I played pretty well.  But I couldn't make a putt.  Missed quite a few short ones, and so that was a bit frustrating.  Yesterday, playing late, I didn't play my best, but yeah, it was kind of the same.  I really didn't make many putts.  Yeah, today, I holed a shot and I made a 12-yard putt off the green on 7.
But again, all the other birdies, I was putting from the green on par 5s and just hit it close a lot.  That was good.  It was just a very good day.
Q. Well, you might have played quite well on the first day, but it's really only after today that you've managed to put yourself in contention, so how does that feel?
ANDREA PAVAN: Yes, definitely.  This morning had nothing to do with that.  I walked out of the recording area thinking I missed the cut, and I was preparing dinner and then all of a sudden I got a text from my caddie saying, hey, get ready because you're playing tomorrow.  So that was nice.
Yeah, I knew I had to go low today.  Yeah, I'm just really happy I managed.  It's fairly easy out there, but you still have to shoot it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT