BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 23, 2019
Andrea Pavan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Congratulations on winning your second career title on The European Tour in dramatic style.  How sweet is this moment?  
ANDREA PAVAN: Yeah, it's amazing to be honest.  I thought I had a chance starting the day, and then, you know, you just start well.  I was playing very well coming into the week, and then I just hit a few kind of bad drives and it's always a little bit my Achilles' heel.   
But I hit a very strong 3-wood, a good 2-iron, so I know my way around, and you know, this hole, it's not the best for me without driver.  But yeah, I managed to make birdie and it's been amazing.  I can't thank enough my sponsors, Callaway and Colmar; Callaway, for helping me out, it's been amazing to help me dial in every time.   
 Q.  How satisfying a shot of that quality to close it out?  
ANDREA PAVAN: It's great.  I was just telling my caddie, you know, I was feeling kind of like the rush, and then I was like, okay, I'm out of position.  Let's hit it close.  You know, I had a little pitching wedge.  Luckily I had a decent lie, but it just felt great and then it was really close and I was glad it was close.   
 Q.  Describe the emotional roller coaster you've been on over the last hour and a half.  You had to wait for the playoff and the diagram after the playoff and the ball looked like it was in the water, and not?  
ANDREA PAVAN: Yeah, it's never easy, but you have to be ready.  When I finished, I thought, at best, I have a playoff and I was happy, obviously.  It's nice, a two-man playoff.  I was in a playoff for the U.S. Open and it was five guys for one spot and that was tough.  I 3-putted on the first and then you go home with nothing.   
Here, I feel like at least at worse, you finish second.  It's very satisfying to get the win.  It's just so hard.  It's so difficult.  I can't believe where I was two years ago at this moment.  I was really struggling, and I can't thank enough my coach, my caddie and my family and my wife.  It's really amazing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT