INDY RACING LEAGUE MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 20, 2006
Chris Festa
Mike Hull
Pablo Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 MIKE HULL: First I'd like to thank everybody that's  taken time this week in this holiday mode to be working like we have. Secondly, the Indy Pro Series is, it is right  up our alley in terms of what we do with young talent.  
 Without belaboring that, it's fair to  say that we work hard to enhance the value of young drivers and we've always  done that, both in the ranks of open and closed wheel racing. And a few months ago, a good friend of ours,  John De La Pena, came to us and was representing Pablo Perez at the time and  still is, and actually represents not only America but Argentina very well. And with the idea that they wanted us to run  a car for Pablo in this series, in the IPS series.   
 We've always been very interested in  doing it but have not really figured out a way to do it in our mind  successfully, so we decided because of John's friendship over the years with us  and the team, both with Chip and myself, we would take a look at that and as a  result of that we ended up involving ourselves or inviting participation from  Chris Festa. So we have two young  drivers, Pablo and Chris, and we're working very hard here internally, and soon  externally, with some testing to be prepared to race.   
 And it's important to us and we  think it's important for people to understand what the statement is that we're  making. We fully support IndyCar Racing,  and we've taken credit for good things and we've taken shots because sometimes  people think that, you know, we're looking somewhere else to race, but actually  I think this makes a pretty strong and firm statement about who we are, what we  represent, what our brand is, and where we're going with IndyCar Racing, and  it's important for us to run a program. We  think all the IRL teams should be running programs in-house, and we're not the  first to do it, and we know that others are going to be doing it this year but  we think it's very important to be doing it, so we're happy to make this  announcement.   
  
  
 MIKE HULL: I think that everybody's assumption are the  test days are the most important part of the deal. We don't look at it like that. They are important to us, there's no question  about it. But what they actually allow  us to be able to do is be able to work with -- and in this case, because it is  in-house, we can look at young drivers firsthand. We see them every day in action in our  building with our mechanics, at the racetrack. We intend they would be a part of the things  that they do with IndyCar team with what they do with IPS and that would  include the test days we would do.  
 The second thing is, our business is  all about people. It's how the people  work together. And this is an  opportunity in a climate that's a bit tough currently. The open-wheel climate is not the best place  to be, but what this does is it allows us to be able to look at additional  staff members here. It allows us to be  able to look at additional engineers, mechanics and staff members, and that's a  big deal for us because all those people are the future of what we do here at  Chip Ganassi Racing. So those are the  reasons why we're interested in doing this.  
  
  
 CHRIS FESTA: It absolutely makes me feel good, that  Ganassi does everything 100%, and that's what it takes to win this racing. It makes me feel very good because I know I'm  going to have great cars underneath me and great personnel looking after they  to give me the best opportunity to put it down on the race rack. Somebody like me coming into their third  season without a win, coming into with somebody like Chip Ganassi Racing who is  going to do it properly from their side really is a great feeling for me going  into the season.  
  
 CHRIS FESTA: Well, I'm looking at back on the past two  years on all of the mistakes I've made, and things I should have done  differently, and as well as I'm working myself a lot harder in the gym to  prepare myself physically for the car as well.  Because with the competition getting better, I'm just going to have to  work a whole lot harder within the car on the track as well as have my mind in  the more proper state to compete against these guys.   
  
  
 PABLO PEREZ: Okay, thank you. First of all I'm very excited to join Chip  Ganassi Racing. This is a big step for  me. This is a big step for reaching my  goals. And I know that Ganassi Racing,  with Chip, Mike and John, they will do the best possible for me, and it's like  a dream come true. This is a big  family. I visited the shop last week and  it was incredible. I saw the car and I'm  very looking forward for the first test.   
  
 PABLO PEREZ: I think that my first goal is to finish all  the races. That is very important for me  because, as you know, I'm a rookie. This  is my first year in the United States, and so I have to finish all the  races. Also, if I have the chance to win  one race, it would be great, but I know that next year when we start will be a  lot of competition. And I think that my  first goal is to finish all of the races, and if we finish in the Top-5, it  would be awesome, you know.   
  
  Q.  Any chance of a third car in your program at the Indy 500, and I guess  I'll start with that.   
 MIKE HULL: Today was supposed to be an announcement  about the Indy Pro Series and I know that IndyCar Racing is very important to  all of us. At present, we do not have  plans for a third car.   
  
  Q.  Is there any opportunity for the Colombian to be involved? I know the schedule is really tight.   
 MIKE HULL: If you're referring to Juan Pablo Montoya as  a Colombian, I would say that in the first year of his NASCAR involvement,  because that have and because of the pressures they are going to be under and  the goals that they have set for themselves there, with the Chevron Texaco  team, that the likelihood of that is probably remote.   
 But you know, you'd have to talk to  Juan about that. If something came to  pass where any driver like Juan was available to us, you know that this team  would do everything that it could to get that driver into the race, but there  are no plans for that at present.   
  
  Q.  What is it that you guys get -- besides actually test days, what is it  that you guys get out of doing this thing?   
 MIKE HULL: We think it's a good -- as we kind of said at  the beginning, it's important for us always to look at people. That for us is absolutely critical for our  future.   
 Racing and racing series and what we  do, some are consistent, some are inconsistent in terms of the direction that  they go, but by doing this program, we'll be able to look at Pablo and we'll be  able to look at Chris as race drivers. We'll  be able to look at the engineers that we hired to help us with this program,  with the mechanics that help us with this; with the sponsorship value and the  value back, the value added, it's all of those things that are important to  us. Because some of these drivers and  over time -- this is not a one-year program for us, but over time. And some of the mechanics and some of the  engineers, and, in fact, some of the people that helped support this program  will all be keepers for us. They will  help the sport and they will help Chip Ganassi Racing.  
 And any time you can increase your  exposure and can increase the tentacles that you have in racing, it's a  benefit. Chip Ganassi Racing is not a  single-dimension situation as you know. We  race in NASCAR in two divisions. We race  in the Indy Racing League, we now will race in the Indy Pro Series, and we race  in the Grand American Rolex prototype division.   
 So all of those things are basically  done under one large umbrella, and they all have value and that's what this is  all about.   
  
  Q.  The thing is, you mentioned Grand Am, is there any chance that either  one of these two guys, or what's your plans for the Rolex 24 and Daytona  prototypes?  
 MIKE HULL: Well, I'm not in a position today to announce  what we are doing with the driver lineup.  But the driver lineup has been decided prior to what we did prior to the  signup with this. We would like both our  IPS guys to be involved in Daytona and by the fact or by the clear direction  that we've set for both of these guys, either one of them would be a good  choice for anybody in the prototype division at Daytona. They would hold their own against anybody.   
 So at present, we don't have a spot  for them with those teams, but that was kind of predetermined by something we  worked on quite a while ago, and by way of information, we'll have an  announcement after the first of the year after the driver lineup for Daytona.  
  
  Q.  And speaking of that, though, Mr. Perez, I understood, drove for Helio  down in Argentina, if I was correct, or in South America at any rate, what's it like working  for him, Mr. Perez?   
 PABLO PEREZ: It was fantastic. I know very well Helio when I went to see the  Indy race. To work with a team over  there in the Brazil area, and as you know, all of the  races, the Brazilian guys are very fast, very aggressive. So I worked with him and also that was the  other owner of the team.  
  
  Q.  Pablo, with Juan Montoya signing with Chip Ganassi Racing, has that  raised the profile of this team down in South America where Chip Ganassi is  much better known than perhaps he was before?   
 PABLO PEREZ: Yeah, you know, all in South America, people always love the racing, so  I think that this team, a lot of people will be very happy. Because we never have Argentina driver over there, so for me it's  an honor to be the first one.  
 It's great for me to sign with Chip Ganassi  and all the people because everybody knows in South America the potential of Chip Ganassi. So I feel a little pressure about that, but I  think that it will be okay for my first year because I'm a rookie. So I don't have the pressure to win my first  year.  
  
  Q.  And is open-wheel racing more popular than stock car racing in South America?   
 PABLO PEREZ: No.  Stock cars are more, you know, the people of South America like stock cars. But I think that with this deal and we have a  lot of young people over there that have the potential to race in the United States or Europe, and well, I think that it will go  next year because of this deal, you know.   
  
  Q.  Part of this program is you are going to have to turn your Indy cars  over for half a day at least at a time to these drivers. How much confidence do you have in these  drivers in their ability -- do you have to look at their ability to move up, do  you even let them do the Pro Series deal?   
 MIKE HULL: Well, that's certainly I think in some  people's mind would be a liability, and in ours, we think it's a clear,  positive asset to what we are doing.   
 We think that these two guys are  capable of being drivers for the future in major open-wheel racing. And we intend for them to be part of our test  program on a 50/50 basis as the rules are defined during the season when we  have an opportunity to test.   
 Everybody thinks -- everybody thinks  that we're just going to go out and use up the test days, but in reality, if  you look at the schedule of events that we have before us to be able to do the  IndyCar Series, and as a matter of fact, to do the Indy Pro Series, it's going  to be tough to do those test days.   
 So the test days are important to  us. Assessing the driver talent for 2008  is important for us, also. And they will  be ready to test when we have the days.   
  
  Q.  What do you think of the IndyCar schedule for this year, is it too  compact, is it too crowded?   
 MIKE HULL: I think -- I think it's a good schedule,  first of all. The races that we're going  to do are all in good marketing areas. As  time goes on, we know that the IndyCar officials have told us they are going to  tweak that schedule to try to improve it geographically.   
 But the intent is correct. The compactness helps us to be able to  generate momentum, and that's what we need.  Momentum is the most important thing for our future, and that's what we  need.   
 So the schedule is fine. Now in terms of what we do as a race team,  it's a lot of work to turn an open-wheel car around the way you have to turn it  around week-in and week-out, because by comparison to NASCAR who has over 35  events a year, if you don't add the all-star races to it, they have a fleet of  automobiles, and it's a lot of work for those guys, but it's not the same  thing. If we bring a chassis home and  turn it for the next race and if we have a problem with that car, it makes it  even more difficult.   
 So the teams are going to have to  change the way they do business internally to be able to ride the momentum that  can be created.   
  
  Q.  How much personnel are you going to have to add to do this team  properly?   
 MIKE HULL: Just in terms of numbers?   
  
  Q.  Yeah.   
 MIKE HULL: We have outlined a staff of nine or ten  people to help us run two cars. The one  good thing that we do have here is we've got a staff internally with a lot of  shop-based people. So our IPS program  will be part of the Grand Am and part of the IRL package that is run internally.   
 So those staff members on the IPS  program can draw upon all of the stops that we have in the building, the paint  shop, the carbon shop, the fab shop and so on to help them turn the cars  between events.   
 So we intend to run this program on  an equal basis to all our other programs.  So I'm not sure how to answer that question in terms of what the staff  actually is, because you could say it's a staff of a hundred people.  
  
  Q.  But you'll add a few mechanics, engineers?  
 MIKE HULL: The core group to run this program is nine or  ten we feel.  
  
  Q.  Are you pretty close to where you need to be?  
 MIKE HULL: In terms of hiring?   
  
  Q.  Yeah.   
 MIKE HULL: Are you applying? Are you applying for a job?   
  
  Q.  Why, certainly, Mike.   
 MIKE HULL: We're not there yet, but we're getting  there. (Laughing).  
  
  Q.  No work for someone with hot air, huh?   
 MIKE HULL: Well, I don't know, you've got a lot of  experience. (Laughter).  
  
  Q.  Okay, back to square one now.  Pablo, are you going to move to Indianapolis for total immersion?  
 PABLO PEREZ: At the first moment, no. I will travel a lot. But it will being impossible for me to live  in Indianapolis because of my family and my work, I  also work, but my first priority is, you know, to race.   
 So I will travel a lot from Argentina to the United States.   
  
  Q.  Back to you, Mike. You haven't  said anything about sponsorship for this program.   
 MIKE HULL: Sponsorship will be announced. It has not been completed yet. We decided we'll announce the whole package  when we're ready to work outside of it.  
  
  Q.  One more question for Chris. Chris,  do you feel an extra pressure to perform, because you're going to your third  team now and because these guys are always running at the front, at least now  that they are on equal basis with everyone else in the IndyCar Series?   
 CHRIS FESTA: Well, I prefer to not look at it as much as  pressure as much as look at it as another opportunity to do it. And I feel being with Chip Ganassi Racing  that I have the best opportunity I've had in past years to accomplish that.   
 So for me, I just need to sit down  and focus on what I need to do and the best way to go about doing it.   
  
   
  End  of FastScripts…  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT