ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
August 7, 2019
Jeongeun Lee6
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TOM BENBOW: Please welcome Jeongeun Lee6 in the Aberdeen Standard Investments Ladies Scottish Open Media Centre.   
You're one of our top-ranked players this week, world ranked No. 7.  You have two Top 10s and a win this year in the U.S. Open.  You're making your debut in this event, and your first time in Scotland.  What are your impressions of Scotland so far?   
JEONGEUN LEE6:  Yeah, I mean, when I came here, the weather seems kind of pretty bad lately.  Also, this is my first time playing a links-style course.  I'm pretty excited about it but I'm not really too sure if I'm going to play well this week.  So we'll see how it goes.   
TOM BENBOW: A Top-10 last week in the women's British Open, and although it wasn't a links course, you said you had started practicing a few knock-down shots.  Have you done anymore of that this week or have you changed any part of your game?   
JEONGEUN LEE6:  Yeah, last week, I just tried to make all my tee shots to make it lower so that I can kind of adjust the distance and everything, but last week, the wind wasn't blowing too much.  But this week is pretty extreme.  So I'm going to try my best as I can to hit low shots as much as possible, and we'll see how it goes.   
 Q.  How has your life changed since becoming a Major Champion?  
 JEONGEUN LEE6:  I was really worried about -- you know, I'm still a rookie player, so I was just worried about if I am eligible to play for a long time on the LPGA Tour.  But luckily that I won the major championship, so there is a chance that I can play the LPGA for five years, and so yeah, I'm pretty excited about it, and a lot of galleries, they watch me.  So they know me since when I won the U.S. Women's.   
 Q.  At home, have parents started giving their children a name like yours with a number?  
 JEONGEUN LEE6:  I mean, there are so many players who have the same name as mine.  It's not that I wanted to putt my last name right next to the number.  It's there are so many players out there, and that's why.  Also, there's Jeongeun Lee 5, but she didn't put her last name right next to my number, so that's why, you know, I don't want people to get confused with like Jeongeun Lee and Jeongeun Lee, so that's why I put mine down as No. 6.   
 Q.  I think it's very clever.  I like it.  I just thought other parents might copy.  
 JEONGEUN LEE6:  I mean, so your question is like if other players are going to copy?   
 My name is a pretty common name, but it doesn't mean that everyone out there has the same name as mine, a lot of them, and that's why.   
 Q.  How does your clothing line, Lucky 6, going?  
 JEONGEUN LEE6:  It I actually designed the logo.  I know Phantom were asking me what kind of design, like they wanted it, so I designed the logo.  It's going pretty well so far, and I get so many new designs.   
 Q.  How are you holding up mentally and physically?  This is your 10th straight week of play.  
 JEONGEUN LEE6:  It's been kind of hard lately because I've been playing so many tournaments in a row.  Yeah, my condition is all right, but you know, I'm going to try my best as I can this week and play well.   
 Q.  You've only missed two cuts this year.  What did you learn from those experiences?  
 JEONGEUN LEE6:  I've been just practicing really hard after missing the cut.  But during Evian after missing the cut, I went to the Swiss museum -- the Olympic Museum, and it got me wanting to reach my goal to play the Olympic tournament next year.   
 Q.  This year, you already won a major.  You've pretty much have looked in Rookie of the Year honours.  What are some of your goals for the rest of the season?  
 JEONGEUN LEE6::  So my goal right now, I don't want to miss a cut the rest of the tournaments.  So I'd like to win another tournament.   
TOM BENBOW: Have you sought any advice from anyone here in Scotland, any local caddies or any other local influencer, or have you brought your Tour caddie with you, and who else is with you this week that could give more advice on the course?  This is a course you've never seen before.   
JEONGEUN LEE6:  Yeah, so my current caddie told me -- I told him it's my first time playing a links-style course.  He told me, don't worry about the weather.  Just enjoy this week and you know, wherever the shot you hit, like just play it shortly and play it safely as you can.  That's what he told me.  He gave me a lot of advice on the course yesterday.   
TOM BENBOW: Who is your caddie.   
JEONGEUN LEE6:  Graeme Courts.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT