AIG WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 31, 2019
Jeongeun Lee6
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Welcome Jeongeun Lee6 to the AIG Women's British Open media centre.  This is your debut in England at this tournament.  What do you know about the event?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  This is my first time coming to the British Open tournament and also coming -- I mean, I've been to Evian Championship twice, and so yeah, British Open will be my first time -- and even Scottish Open will be my first time, as well.  Pretty excited about this week and next week.
THE MODERATOR: Is there anything interesting that's caught your eye in England this week about the golf course or even the people or the things that are in England that are different?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  I'm not really sure yet because I've just been focusing on my practice and I've been on the range most of the days.  Yeah, just trying to enjoy the course.  I really like the course so far, and also this major event looks very amazing to me.  It looks very, very major tournament.
THE MODERATOR: Everyone over here is fascinated with your nickname, the Lee6.  Could you tell us a little bit more about that and things that have come with it, so things that you've done to adopt the name, if you like?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  So quick story.  So I'm the No. 6 player who has the same name Jeongeun Lee, so also this number is my lucky number, and so since I've been playing in most of the tournaments in KLPGA and LPGA I've been shooting a lot of No. 6, so that's why it feels like No. 6 has meant to me a lot.  Yeah, and then also some people cannot pronounce my first name, so people call me "6," so I feel pretty happy, and it's amazing how they call me "6."
Q. Sung Hyun Park has her fan club, Jin-Young Ko has a fan club.  Do you have a fan club?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  Yeah, I have a fan club.  My fan club name is "Lucky 6."
Q. How has winning a major changed your life?  Do people recognise you now?  Do they know who you are?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  First when I played in LPGA tournaments, a lot of -- there weren't a lot of galleries, and so after winning the major tournament, a lot of galleries are recognising me, especially when I'm in the airport or restaurants, and a lot of people will come up to me and want to sign an autograph and take pictures with me.  So it's pretty cool.
Q. In Atlantic City at ShopRite, people were calling you "6" and people in the gallery were just shouting it out.
JEONGEUN LEE6:  Yeah, so after winning the U.S. Open and then the next tournament obviously was ShopRite, and a lot of people came, and they called me "6" and they were all cheering for me, and so I felt more confident playing on the course.  I feel pretty happy about it.
Q. How are you feeling about this golf course this week?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  Yeah, so this golf course, there's so many trees, like a lot of tall trees, and so I just need to focus on where to target and also try to make sure like where I want my ball to land at, so that's the main focus I wanted to play this week.
Q. The wind and rain is often a factor in this championship with the weather.  Is that something that you welcome?  Do you like playing in those sorts of conditions?  Do you like that challenge?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  I mean, if it's raining I'm fine to play with, but if it's extremely windy, just like now, it's hard to play because I just need to like make sure -- make as low a shot as possible, and yeah, trying to find the right distance and stuff.  So yeah.
Q. What do you feel like you learned from winning that first major championship that could potentially help you here this week?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  So pretty much after I won the U.S. Open, like I felt more confident, and I feel like I can play well most of the rest of the tournaments.  Yeah, and since I've been playing in LPGA tournaments, all the practice facilities are so nice and so good to practice, and so I feel more like wanting to play well and know what I should fix and what I should improve for the next tournament just to get ready.
Q. Following on from the question about playing in the tough conditions, have you practised any specific shots knowing you were coming to England?  I know we're not on a links course, but it's windy, it's different.  Have you practised any different low shots?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  Basically we're just teed lower just to make my driver distance go the same distance as I used to play, and so yeah, everything I've just been practising on low shots, and so that's all I've been doing, working on.
Q. When you won the U.S. Open, a lot of people were talking about your hair and it being blond.  It's still blond; is that a good luck charm for you?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  I mean, I like to change my style, different style, and so I just made my mind to dye my hair to blond.  But actually my dad told me to dye my hair into darker colour, and so I ended up dyeing my hair a darker blond colour.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT