KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2019
Jeongeun Lee6
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: She became a Rolex first time winner when she captured her first major title at the U.S. Women's Open, and has also been in contention at the LPGA Mediheal Championship and the ShopRite LPGA Classic.  In fact, no finish this season worse than 33rd.  6, welcome to Hazeltine.  You said you played 18 holes yesterday and will play later today.  What are your thoughts on the golf course?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  The course set-up is amazing.  And the KPMG Championship really seems like a PGA tournament.
Q. Do you think it's a difficult course for you?  What is the challenge?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  I think the 16th hole is really challenging because it's hard to aim and figure out how to attack the pin.  And there are so many hazards so it's very, very difficult on hole 16.
Q. I want to go back to Charleston and the U.S. Women's Open and your win there.  What have the last few weeks been like since winning that major championship?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  There were so many messages from my family and friends in Korea that I've been trying to reply to everyone. But I've been trying to focus on my game because we have so many tournaments coming up like right after was ShopRite and Meijer.  I've just been focusing on that.
Q. I know you're very close with your mom and your dad.  They were in Korea.  What was their reaction when they found out you won?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  They really didn't know how to react because they didn't think winning was a possibility and we especially didn't expect to win this quickly.  They felt pretty amazed and proud of me since I won a major championship on the LPGA.  And everyone was surprised and especially my fans - they were celebrating for winning the U.S. Open championship.
Q. Do your parents call you Jeonguen or do they call you 6?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  They call me Jeongeun.
Q. I wanted to ask you, when you played the practice round yesterday, on the 16th, did you go to that forward tee?  And do you think you'll try to drive the green when you play it?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  I consider holes 16, 17 and 18 to be really important at a major and I want to play those holes as safely as much as I can.
Q. At the beginning of the year, what goals did you set for yourself?  Have you exceeded those, and what are your goals now?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  I don't think my goals really changed since I won- my goal was always to make as many cuts as I can and make as many top-10s as I can.
Q. Are you coming into this major championship approaching anything differently now that you have a major attached to your name, or are you treating this week the same as you would have if you wouldn't have won the U.S. Open?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  Yeah, I mean little bit different than before.  Pretty much I just need to focus on, attacking the pin accurately and just to focus on my second shot, like where to aim, like where I wanted to land it at.
Q. Do you feel more pressure this week at a major now that you've already won one?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  Since winning the U.S. Open, I know there are a lot more people that know who I am after winning the tournament.  And so now I just want to continue playing well and to my best ability-- I'm so thankful for all their support.
Q. Did you know anything about Hazeltine before you got here?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  This is my first time so, no.
Q. Have you heard of Minnesota?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  No, not at all.  First time.
Q. I'm curious, what is her first memory of golf on television and her favorite memory of golf on television?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  The most I remember is that Se Ri Pak, when she took her shoes off and then she was hitting her shot at the U.S. Women's Open.  So that's the most memorable that I ever watched.
Q. Jerry Foltz was just in here talking about the U.S. Open and how after one of our American coaches made some disparaging comments about the women's tour, he thought that fans were rooting harder and harder for you to succeed.  Did you feel that in Charleston, that the fans were more behind you than they have been before?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  I didn't really think about it much.  I wasn't really paying attention to the gallery.  I didn't really think about it too much.  But I like playing when there's not a lot of galleries because it's so quiet, I never played really quiet courses before during the round.
But, yeah, I mean, I feel pretty grateful that a lot of fans know me and then they cheer for me and just makes me feel confident.
Q. In Korea, it seems that the women are more popular than the men.  The women golfers are more popular.  What needs to happen for that to be the case here in America?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  I'm not sure but all I can think of is that every player should play professionally, just try as best as they can and just kind of perform while, like how the PGA players, how they play.
Q. What's the nicest thing you've ever bought for yourself?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  Shoes.  (Laughter).  I mean it's not just only shoes.  Just really high-end brand shoes, really, really nice.  Gucci.  (Laughter).
Q. You mentioned Se Ri Pak as someone you remember.  This tournament is about inspiring greatness.  Who are players or people that inspire you in your career?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  I am inspired by Jin Young Ko and Sung Hyun Park.  They're really great players because their rankings are 1 and 2.  But I mean right now, Lexi Thompson has been playing really well so I am inspired by her also.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT