SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
June 8, 2019
Jeongeun Lee6
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What a way to end on 18.  What was the strategy on that finishing hole?  
 JEONGEUN LEE6:  Yeah, so on hole 15, I made a bogey, and actually before the hole 15, I kind of wanted to make a birdie as much as I can, and so after hole 15, I just wanted to finish strong and so especially on hole 16, I made a par and hole 17, I made a birdie.  Hole 18, I made an eagle, so I kind of wanted to finish strong and I did.  So I'm pretty satisfied with it.   
 Q.  So for you, were the conditions different out there today?  There were pretty big gusts of wind, especially, probably on your back nine?  
 JEONGEUN LEE6:  So the wind condition was pretty, it was kind of a little bit severe than yesterday, but my shots were pretty good, but then other than that, my short game was a little bit iffy.   
 Q.  Were you checking leaderboards at all?  You were one of the only ones to really go even lower than you were today, or were you just focussing on your own game?  
 JEONGEUN LEE6:  Yeah, so I know the wind condition was not that great, and I know that -- I assume the score will not be as good as yesterday.   
 Yeah, so my goal was to finish at 3-under and I'm pretty satisfied with my after-nine hole round.   
 Q.  What's it going to take for you to stay on top of the leaderboard tomorrow and bring home another victory back-to-back?  
 JEONGEUN LEE6:  Yeah, so I mean, all my shots were pretty good, but it's just I need to focus more on my short game, especially my putting.   
 Yeah, so hopefully no 3-putts for so many.   
 Q.  You mentioned 15.  What happened at 15 that got you so motivated and made you want to finish strong?  What went wrong at 15, basically?  
 JEONGEUN LEE6:  Yeah, so I mean, my shots were pretty good.  It's just my putting, and it was not good enough.  But I mean, I know that hole 16 and 17, 18, the yardage, the distance, are pretty short, and so I know that I will make birdie as much as I can.  I know 16, like I could have done a little bit better, but hole 17 and 18, I think I did pretty good with it.   
 Q.  How far was the birdie putt on 17, and how far was the second shot into 18?  
 JEONGEUN LEE6:  Yeah, so hole 17, the length of the putt was about five meters, and hole 18, my second shot was about 169 meters, but there was a back wind and so it kind of helped me with it.   
 Q.  And the crowds today, how did you find the crowds, and are you getting more and more recognized now as you continue this weekend?  
 JEONGEUN LEE6:  I am so glad that a lot of Korean fans are here supporting me and cheering for me.  I'm just really happy with that, and so you know, tomorrow, the final round, I'm sure it will be a little more crowded.  My goal is wanting to show them -- have a good round, have a good time with everyone, and also, I know I'm going to be a little bit nervous, but I know I'm going to do well tomorrow.   
 Q.  What club did you hit on 18, the second shot?  
 JEONGEUN LEE6:  6-iron.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT