SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
June 7, 2019
Jeongeun Lee6
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. An up-and-down round out there, a couple birdies, a couple bogeys.  How were you feeling out there on the course?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  I'm pretty satisfied with my round, pretty much all my shots and my short game.  I think I did pretty good with finishing on 8-under.
Q. You've said that you've liked to be relaxed and consistent on the course.  Did that come out today in your play do you think?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  Yeah, so I felt really pretty relaxed on the course.  I didn't feel nervous.  And yeah, I think I did pretty good.  I just played it just like how I played it last week, so yes, I'm going to focus on the second and third rounds.
Q. Do you feel like you're riding off the momentum of your U.S. Women's Open win?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  Yeah, so last week I did pretty good in last week's tournament, and so I feel pretty confident.  Now I feel like I wanted to play well in the rest of the tournaments.
Q. For you, what is there to work on for tomorrow and Sunday?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  I'm going to be focused more on my rhythm, like shots and my short game, and so I'm going to be practicing more.
Q. A lot of people talk about how draining, how tiring the U.S. Women's Open is.  You won it, but obviously you didn't have a letdown.  How were you able to deal with the emotion and the physical strain of winning last week and coming back and playing like this today?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  So pretty much, I mean, this tournament is only three rounds, and so I got a couple days off for me, and then I've been balancing myself to make my physical and mentally be stable, and so yeah, I've just been working on that.  And then also the weather was better than last week's weather.
Q. What was going well for you in your round?  What part of your game was the strongest today?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  Yeah, so I mean, my shots were pretty good so far, and then also my putting was pretty good, too, and I made a lot of putts.  So that's why I had so many birdie chances.  And also I did pretty good with the middle-length clubs.
Q. The greens here in the afternoon have a reputation for getting bumpy.  How did you find the surface?  Was it smooth enough, as smooth as you expected?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  Yeah, so the greens are pretty good.  It was pretty smooth, and then all my shots were -- I had so many good shots.  I think I controlled it pretty well.
Q. A lot of people who shot low today played in the morning.  You're one of the few in the afternoon to shoot as low as you did.  How did you handle the wind in the afternoon?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  Yeah, during the practice round, the wind was blowing, also, so I had been practicing on that.  So I just kind of -- it helped me a lot with the round, yeah.
Q. This was your first tournament as U.S. Women's Open champion.  Did you find there were more people following you today than usual?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  Yeah, it just feels pretty -- I feel pretty happy that so many people are watching me.  It feels really weird sometimes because I won the U.S. Open and then also a lot of people came to watch me, especially a lot of Korean galleries, they came and support me.  So yeah, I feel pretty good about it.
Q. You win the U.S. Open last week, shoot a 63 today.  How much confidence do you have now, and how good do you feel about your game when you go out there?  How much confidence are you playing with right now?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  You know, I try to remind myself just to make my shots, to think about the rhythms and everything and just to be consistent with all my shots and all my short game, and so that's what I've been focusing on, and so that's why I feel more confident.  And then also I focus more on the putting, the green speed.
Q. What did you think of the gallery on 17 with your name?  Did you see that?
JEONGEUN LEE6:  I feel really surprised how people were -- it was so crowded, and the people out there on the stage, like they were wearing her tee shirts, Lee6, so I was surprised about it, and I feel pretty happy and confident.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT