U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 31, 2018
Jeongeun Lee6
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How does it feel to be the co-leader of the Women's Open after Round 1?
JEONGEUN6 LEE:  Well, it's just the first round, just started it.
Q. What was the reason for the good score, was it good iron play, good putting, driving, combination?
JEONGEUN6 LEE:  I would say my putting was better today.  I would be totally happy with how I did with my driver and the shots but I think my putting was better today.
Q. You had a bogey-free round which is amazing considering the condition of the golf course.  You do have to feel proud, perhaps, on how you played today.
JEONGEUN6 LEE:  My main strategy today was not to have a bogey and I think that worked and also when I went to a more difficult situation I try not to get into trouble.  I stay out of it.
Q. Did you play a practice round, how was the course today?
JEONGEUN6 LEE:  I came from Korea last Wednesday and I managed to have three round of 9 hole.
Q. You got very lucky then with the rain.  How has the course improved with the rain, the conditions over the last few days?
JEONGEUN6 LEE:  Yeah.  I feel the same way, it was a good thing I came earlier so that I get to have some more practice.  If I compared the condition of the course, I would say it was pretty much the same as when I was doing the practice round.
Q. Did you have any mud balls where you had to really scramble for par?
JEONGEUN6 LEE:  I think overall I was -- I did okay.  I didn't really run into a huge issue with the mud.  I had a little bit of mud on my ball.  I don't think it had an effect on how I played today.
Q. How do you prepare now for tomorrow seeing that you're on the top of the leaderboard?
JEONGEUN6 LEE:  I think what I try to do is stay straight with my shots and my putting.  I think I'm going to apply pretty much the same approach tomorrow.  That's what I'm think.
Q. Do you have any family or friends coming with you this week?
JEONGEUN6 LEE:  No, not my family.  I have people from my company here with me.  Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT