BELGIAN KNOCKOUT
May 19, 2018
James Heath
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How are you feeling?
JAMES HEATH: Yeah, good.  Still buzzing.  I'll probably be tired in about 15 minutes but still obviously buzzing, because of the format, you're never too far from each other, and so you're always -- you're always buzzing.  There's no kind of like, oh, let's just settle into the round because you're there from the get-go.
No sign of tiredness, yet.
Q. The previous round, that was quite eventful, as well?
JAMES HEATH: Yes, it was.  I was really proud of myself because I stuck in there.  He was rolling in putt after putt in, and it's very easy to just be, okay, not my day.  Just do the best you can the next shot, just do the best you can next shot, and played a great shot into my next hole, but a really risky -- risk/reward shot taking that pin on with that yardage.  So, delighted, really delighted with that second round.
Q. This round, the last, what was going through your mind?
JAMES HEATH: It was a 9-iron.  I think I just went on autopilot a little bit.  I saw Robert in the trees and I had a pure lie and I just hit the shot stiff the last three times and I thought, expected it to happen, rather than just turning up.  Just one of those things that happens in golf.  Like I said, I was proud of myself and that bunker shot, was like, right, let just start again.  Make up-and-down like you've done a thousand times, hit a good bunker shot and hold the putt.
Q. It's been a difficult year for you, so far.  This is obviously a lot better.  What's been the difference, do you think?
JAMES HEATH: I think I was saying to you yesterday, that the format certainly makes a difference.  Just it's right in front of you, and as I said yesterday, for a guy who has not been playing that great, the thought of a four-round tournament on a tough course, it's like, it's up here, you know what I mean.  It's too far away from me right now and I just needed something just to grab hold of.  Just be, right, okay, I can play well for two rounds around this golf course and I can beat anybody around nine holes.
So I think it was the format that brought out some good golf in me, really.
Q. Tomorrow, you've got Nicolas Colsaerts.  How much are you looking forward to that?
JAMES HEATH: Yeah, it will be good.  Obviously big home favourite.  Only Belgian guy left in.  But honestly, you've got to imagine that the expectations are quite low of me beating him because he's in good form.  He's been 2- or 3-under par and I've been level par, and he's playing better golf than me.
This format, who knows?  I know I'm capable of playing good golf.  I know I need to find something on the range or the putting green and maybe I can turn up with better holes tomorrow.  You know you've got to be 3- or 4-under par, and I've double-bogeyed that 13 hole twice today.  I'm not driving it particularly well.  Without the double bogey there, I'm not playing too bad.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT