OKLAHOMA CITY THUNDER MEDIA CONFERENCE
June 1, 2016
Mitch McGary
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What was that playoff run like?  
MITCH McGARY: Insane, crazy.  Just like the atmosphere of arenas, how intense the games, like they amplified to another level from regular season to the playoffs.  Just being a part of it was amazing.  Last year we didn't make the playoffs unfortunately.  We didn't get our end goal of winning a championship, but we played the two best teams in the league this year, and I thought we held our own.   
We left it all on the court, and unfortunately, Golden State got us.   
 Q.  Even though you didn't play, did that help you at all as far as being there?  
MITCH McGARY: Definitely.  Just being in that position, we took the Spurs to six games.  Being in a Game 7, not being out on the court but mentally just being in the game, locked in the game, seeing what goes in and out of the game through time-outs, being engaged, seeing little things, picking up on things, giving guys little pointers really can help me in the future in my game as well.   
 Q.  Mitch, we didn't always see your progression this year.  What do you think you progressed on this year, and what do you think you have to do moving forward?  
MITCH McGARY: My passing.  You know, personally, different players and all the other bigs on the team can handle the ball a little bit better, and Coach has really strived on showing my passing skills.  I worked on that a lot this year.  And my shooting.   
Obviously, just a lot of footwork stuff.  Defensively, trying to be essentially a traffic cop on defense and see everything, call out screens and switches because we're the last line of defense.  Just a lot of learning here, man.  I'm very excited for next year.   
Unfortunately, didn't get the shot I wanted this year.  That's mainly on me.  Just didn't get things going.  So next year -- this summer is very big for me to possibly get things going next year.   
 Q.  You talked about being kind of locked into the games and how things were playing out.  It seems like the way that teams defend Kevin and Russell, big man in the center of the floor with the ball in his hand, is often something that's asked of bigs on this team.  Is that a role you feel like you can fulfill?  
MITCH McGARY: Definitely.  I think that's something we can incorporate mainly because they were double and triple-teamed every time they touch the ball.  So having that outlet in the middle of the floor that can put it down, dribble on the perimeter, make an occasional three, maybe.  But I think that we can incorporate that, and I would be a big part in their offense.   
 Q.  What did you say about you maybe not playing, it was on you, what do you mean?  
MITCH McGARY: Just it was a lot of learning this year, like learning steps, and I didn't take the right steps just to give myself a shot.  I wasn't always in the best shape.  Mainly that, just trying to stay healthy and be on the court.  I had some injuries again this year, and hopefully I can be prepared after this summer to stay injury free, knock on wood, and go from there.   
 Q.  This team is pretty loaded with good big men.  Do you feel like you want to stay here and this is a place you want to prosper or perhaps a change of scenery?  
MITCH McGARY: I love it here.  I wouldn't want to leave them.  I love playing with these guys, alongside these guys.  These guys are fun.  We're all around the same edge, Enes and Steve and I, Serge a few years older, and Nick's our grandpa basically.  He takes us under his wing, him and Nazy.  They teach us the ropes sometimes.   
But, you know, I couldn't imagine playing for another team.  This is the team that drafted me.  Like I say, I'm loyal, but I just want to play ball.  That's it.   
 Q.  When you stepped away for your personal reasons, when you came back to the team, what did that do for you personally aside from basketball?  
MITCH McGARY: Just put things in perspective.  You know, I've been playing this game for so long, when you stop playing, it kind of puts things in perspective, and you realize this is what you're doing.  This is what you've been doing your whole life.  So just keep grinding and stay with it.   
 Q.  Defense the biggest thing for you, do you think, moving forward?  You mentioned traffic cop.  Just really --  
MITCH McGARY: Yeah, just attention to detail, not taking possessions off defensively, just staying in games the whole possession and seeing man and ball.  You know, it's a lot going on, and I try to watch what Steven did this playoffs.  This whole season, he did a great job.  His growth was tremendous in his style.  He saw the floor defensively.  Called out switches.  Ended up guarding guards with five on the shot clock and doing a great job and us getting stops.   
So just trying to see what Steven did and apply it to my game.   
 Q.  This is early but (indiscernible)?  
MITCH McGARY: It's not really my call, but I plan on it.   
 Q.  Is that up to Donovan?  
MITCH McGARY: Coach or Sam.  I don't know.  It's not my call.   
 Q.  Do you think you have a real shot to carve out some minutes next season when you get into camp?  Is that on you?  
MITCH McGARY: I mean, I think overall it would be on me just because, if I play to my potential, you know, I think I got a pretty good shot at playing.  Obviously, I love the guys on the team.  I don't want to take any minutes away from them, but I want to win.  I love to play.  Just got a love for the game, a passion, and I can bring a lot of energy to the game.   
So whatever I can do to help the team is what I'm going to do.  So this summer, that was very important for me personally.  Kind of being selfish in a way, just getting my body back in shape where I can have that ultimate shot of playing next year.   
 Q.  How hard is that.  I think it was this time last year you're talking about getting a new chef and all this.  How hard is it to stay with it?  
MITCH McGARY: Pretty difficult.  Consistency is probably the one key.  You know, you can always -- I can always start on a diet, but you're never going to stay on it.   
No, basically just consistency, man.  Like we had guys come in and strength coach and trainers come in all year long and just adding guys to our program, only to help us and to benefit us.  So to try and incorporate that with our daily routine was just difficult, and like I said, consistency is just the key.  Just staying consistent with your daily routines and staying in shape.   
 Q.  Does that make this summer maybe your biggest test because you're going to be away from the strength coaches if you're on vacation or whatever?  
MITCH McGARY: Oh, yeah, definitely.  Right now I haven't played the last -- the majority of the last two years.  So this is a big key for me in my career if I want to keep it going.  Because if I want to prove the player that I am and that I have the potential to be, that I know I can play at this level and be an elite player with some of the guys up there, this is a big time for me to prove myself.   
 Q.  Mitch, you mentioned Serge as being a guy, you know, that you can kind of lean on, learn from.  Has that collection of big men playing in front of you, Enes, Steven, help to kind of show you some of the things -- they each offer different things in terms of mentoring in their games.  
MITCH McGARY: Definitely.  You know, Serge from the defensive aspect.  He's a rim protector and knocks down shots.  One of the best midrange and three-point shooters in the country -- or in the league, I think, from the 4 spot.  I think that's what I learned from him this year.  Just not really learned, but just working out with him, getting shots up and really trying to work on our skills from behind the arc and midrange.   
Enes can score the ball well and rebound.  That's something I like to do is rebound.  So I take things from the guys, just seeing them this whole year, and Steven especially, being around the rim defensively, making passes, just trying to incorporate everything that they do into my game is pretty cool.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT