ALLSTATE SUGAR BOWL: OHIO STATE v ALABAMA
December 30, 2014
Doran Grant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk to me a little bit about what you guys have been talking about in terms of preparing for them.   Alabama hasn't been known for a heavy pass attack but all of a sudden this year they got that decent wide receiver, they got a quarterback, scored 55 points on Auburn, et cetera, et cetera.   How have you guys been planning for that?
DORAN GRANT:   Just stand to what we do.   Playing our base defense, playing for one another‑‑ big games like this that's the only thing you can do, prepare, watch film, come out, play hard.

Q.   One of the sub plots of the playoff has been kind of the idea that it's like an extra round of games, maybe cuts into more exams on the front end or second semester on the back end.   You laugh, why?
DORAN GRANT:   It's true.

Q.   Tell me more. 
DORAN GRANT:   Because we have more to think about.   Usually just go into a bowl game knowing it's a bowl game, that's it.   When you have to truly prepare in playoff mode knowing it's another game possibly afterwards, you have to stay focused.   You have to stay in football mind, gotta keep going.   Just extending the season.

Q.   You played in a bowl game before?
DORAN GRANT:   Yes.

Q.   Is it different in terms of everyone wants to win every game.   People don't play football, like me, read things like, will say things like maybe you don't care as much and in fact what we're told is that if you've ever played a football game you understand that like there's no way to play a football game without caring because you're putting your body on the line, et cetera.   Having said that, is there an up level of intensity this year knowing that you're playing for not just like the pride of winning this one game but the chance to advance and a chance to win the national title?
DORAN GRANT:   I think so.   Because like you said we're playing for something.   It's a four‑team playoff.   So we're on the stage.   You have to perform well to win to get to Dallas.   And that's what we tend to do.

Q.   And talk to me a little about the nitty‑gritty of when exams ended when practice was when the second semester is beginning, exams were when?
DORAN GRANT:   Exams were finished up two weeks ago, about two weeks ago.

Q.   After the Big Ten game?
DORAN GRANT:   Yes.   We were still in exams, after the Big Ten.

Q.   After the Big Ten game.   Then you get back to practicing, don't have school.   Semester break.   When does the second semester start?
DORAN GRANT:   The 12th.

Q.   Obviously you want to make the game.   But obviously you're not going to cry tears if you have to miss a couple days of class.   Is that something in your mind like‑‑
DORAN GRANT:   You don't want to get behind in class, especially the start of the semester.   Starting this week you got all your information, know where your classes are at everything.   That's going to be critical, trying to get back to possibly make it to the next round.

Q.   What are you studying?
DORAN GRANT:   Sociology.

Q.   What was your favorite class this semester?
DORAN GRANT:   Sign language, I took sign language as a foreign language.   That is my third class.

Q.   What do you see from Cooper on film?
DORAN GRANT:   He's a good player, very good player.   Good speed.   Great route runner.   He plucks the ball out of the air very well.   More than anybody receiver I've ever seen.

Q.   That's my question who is the best receiver you've seen this year?
DORAN GRANT:   That I played against?   I say I name a few.   Tony Lippett from Michigan State and Carroo from Rutgers he wasn't bad.   And Dave (indiscernible) those are pretty good guys.

Q.   You get the sense Cooper is on a different level there?
DORAN GRANT:   Yeah, definitely a different player for me.   Obviously the top three.   Heisman finalist for a reason.   He's just up there.

Q.   You feel like it's going to be a game where it's you and him on an island or think a lot of guys will get their turns on him?
DORAN GRANT:   It's one of those things I'll play my boundary and we'll go.   I know we'll have some matchups.   That's what I'm looking forward to, especially at a big stage like this.   That's what the whole playoff is about anyway.

Q.   Who covers slot guy for you all in the run game?
DORAN GRANT:   Nicolas, Nico, the linebacker. 

Q.   Specifically who in the secondary is the nickel guy?
DORAN GRANT:   Armani Reeves plays some nickel and Vonn Bell also.

Q.   When Cooper is in the slot, probably they get their turn on him?
DORAN GRANT:   Yeah.

Q.   What were your impressions of Nick Saban sort of coming into this and have they changed at all now that you spent a little more time looking at how Alabama does it?
DORAN GRANT:   More balance with Lane Kiffin bringing more spread to the game and obviously been working for them when they can balance it out just run, run, run, throw deep every time.   So I think it's a change but I think we can handle it.

Q.   From what you've seen of Saban, does he sort of compare to Coach Meyer?
DORAN GRANT:   I can't really tell.   I'm not one of those guys, I'm not around him.   I only see what I see on TV.

Q.   You guys have been down in New Orleans for a couple of days.   Obviously there could be some distractions with Bourbon Street and fans how have you been able to cope with that?
DORAN GRANT:   We did well.   We did our walking around the streets.   But nothing too crazy, just been walking, sightseeing really, because we know what it is, big game, big playoff game.   And opportunity to go play for the first nnational championship.

Q.   What time are you guys sort of checking in for the night?
DORAN GRANT:   I think about 10:00.

Q.   10:00 every night or just 10:00 tonight?
DORAN GRANT:   10:00 tonight and yesterday also.

Q.   Any highlights walking around the city?
DORAN GRANT:   Just seeing the different talents on the streets, guys ask for tips they have different talents.   Seen a guy, a mime, a true mime, doing the Jabberwocky and a transformer.

Q.   Tap dancers?
DORAN GRANT:   Yeah, they had the things on top of their shoes, tap‑dancing.   They were on both sides of the street.

Q.   Nobody came up to you and said I bet you I know where you got them shoes or anything like that, have you ever heard that one?
DORAN GRANT:   I've been warned about that.   But nah.

Q.   Questions about Amari Cooper.   Have you gotten familiar with his film?
DORAN GRANT:   Yeah.

Q.   What do you make of his particular strengths?   Is it his combination of speed and ability to locate the ball in the air and get it up high for him?
DORAN GRANT:   That's what makes him very good because he does a lot of good things, things that guys at this level can't do altogether.   But he has a little bit of everything and that's what makes him great.

Q.   What are your thoughts on going up against him?   I assume you're looking forward to it?
DORAN GRANT:   Definitely I'm looking forward to it, especially on the Sugar Bowl stage, first college playoff, semifinals.   Great teams, great matchups.

Q.   Would you enjoy playing man on him or do you think zone's the way to go?
DORAN GRANT:   If I have the opportunity to play man I'll play man.   I'm not saying that's what we cover him, man. 

Q.   Do you think it's going to be the toughest challenge all year?
DORAN GRANT:   Yeah, I think so.   He's the most complete offensive player we've gone against as a defensive unit.   So I say that.   It's going to be a great challenge.

Q.   Obviously can't be nervous or intimidated about it in any way. 
DORAN GRANT:   Obviously with a championship, gonna be nerves.

Q.   Talk about your relationship with Bradley Roby?
DORAN GRANT:   We have a great relationship.   I've been texted him all week, he'll be here for the game, exciting to get to see him.

Q.   Offered you any encouragement going against Cooper?
DORAN GRANT:   He told me some things I might want to watch for and different things getting advice from him being at the next level.   I appreciate that a lot.

Q.   Apart from Cooper what has he told you just in general about what the league's like?
DORAN GRANT:   It's a lot of work.   You have to come to work every day.   Be prepared to work and work hard and compete. 

Q.   Sugar Bowl trophy and stuff.   You know why Alabama put the No. 15 helmet up there?
DORAN GRANT:   Do I know why?   We're going to play them it's going to be 2015.

Q.   They've won 15 national titles is what I'm assuming.   I'm assuming that's the reason that the number 15 is there. 
DORAN GRANT:   I didn't know that.

Q.   What do you think about them doing that, do you think it makes sense or do you think it's a way of trying‑‑
DORAN GRANT:   Have they won‑‑ they've won 15 already? 

Q.   Won 15 national titles. 
DORAN GRANT:   Oh, man.   I thought it was just something they want to do.   That's crazy.

Q.   I just wondered, last year was Sammy Watkins had such success.   Do you guys draw?   Did you study any of that?   I'm just wondering, does it give you any motivation going into this game just to not get up like that?
DORAN GRANT:   Sammy is a different guy.   He's a different receiver.   He's a guy I never seen nothing like that.   I can't compare Amari to him if that's what you're really asking.

Q.   I don't need you to.   But‑‑
DORAN GRANT:   Like preparation? 

Q.   Preparation for shutting down another guy who has got skills like probably you haven't‑‑ I know there's some good receivers in the Big Ten. 
DORAN GRANT:   I know what you're saying.   Basically the only thing you can do is still watch film and study and get the game plan together and run it, run it to the best of your ability.

Q.   Did that make you more determined to not let something like that happen again?
DORAN GRANT:   Definitely.   Definitely.   Because last year we gave away too many yards in the air.   We can't let that happen this year.   Gotta stop the plays.

Q.   When you study Amari, what does he do best?
DORAN GRANT:   I probably say the best thing I've seen from him on film is his route‑running ability.   He has good speed but his route running ability is very sharp.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT