NAVY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 10, 2015
Ken Niumatalolo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Navy - 24
  Notre Dame - 41 
  
KEN NIUMATALOLO: First off, hats off to Coach Kelly and the team. They played a really good football game. Coach had a nice plan on defense and they did a nice job. A nice job of bouncing back. I know they had a tough loss last week and I thought they did a good job of bouncing back. We knew we had to play perfect again these guys and it was probably our worst game this season. We have been taking care of the ball and had three turnovers and against this team you can't turn the ball over. We gave it to them there at the end.   
They did a nice job of getting down there in field goal range. We had some penalties, some turnovers, some missed assignments that normally we're pretty clean on both phases and against a good team like Notre Dame, that spells disaster and that's what happened to us. But like I said, hats off to Coach Kelly and the team and wish them the best of luck as they move on.   
   
 Q. (No microphone.)  
KEN NIUMATALOLO: He'll be fine. Just got kicked in the shin. Just get some rest next week and he'll be back. But I thought Powell came in and did a really good job considering the circumstances. And we feel good coming out of halftime and that opening kick off, that took the wind out of our sails. We were in good shape, down three, we get the ball to start the second half, we defer it on purpose to try to get the ball to start the second half and we liked where we were at, but you can't turn the ball over deep in the territory and we did it twice and gave up 14 points. And then, when we're behind, it's tough for us, that's not how we're built as an offense so us being behind kind of takes us out of our rhythm.   
   
 Q. (No microphone.)  
KEN NIUMATALOLO: We didn't get enough stops. We didn't get enough stops, especially when we needed them. But Coach Kelly does a great job, I always thought this, that he's one of the best head coach, offensive play callers in the country. Does a really good job of keeping you off balance. He's got a great feel for the game and he just had us off balance. He got us on a little shuttle play going outside and we tried to get outside and had the quarterback keep and so, like I said, what they did, well coached, good schemes, and we just had a hard time stopping them.   
   
 Q. (No microphone.)  
KEN NIUMATALOLO: Yeah.   
   
 Q. Every loss hurts, but the message in the locker room may be a little bit different now that you're in a conference and have something to play for outside of this game in terms of a league title and other goals that are still attainable in front of you?  
KEN NIUMATALOLO: Well, you try your best and I think that it was kind of interesting that ‑‑ I read Coach Kelly's comments last week, you can't let one loss turn into two and that's the same for us. It's a devastating loss for us, we were playing really well coming into this game and not to show up and not play very well, personally I did a bad job of getting our team ready against a really good football team. It's just disappointing. I wish we would have played better. You try to look for some silver lining in the deal and that's one of them, we just got to press forward, try to get ready for conference play.   
   
 Q. I know you coached an against a lot of Notre Dame teams. What's your impression of this team?  
KEN NIUMATALOLO: When I saw him in person, he's bigger than our linebackers, I mean just, when I saw him in person I said, geez I knew he was big on TV, but didn't realize he was that big. I don't know how to explain it, he kind of reminds me of Chuck Muncie, just real slithery and the next thing you know he's gone. Just a really patient back, physical, he's got good vision, and I thought Kizer got off to a little rocky start, but he bounced back, obviously, and played really well. I think the future is bright with those two guys.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT