FED CUP - BELGIUM VS. USA
April 23, 2005
Eveline Vanhyfte
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Can you talk about the emotions and the nerves of just even walking out onto the court today. 

EVELINE VANHYFTE:  Well, yeah, it's a very big experience for me.  If I go on the court and I see like I don't know how many people, four thousand or something, I'm like, yeah.  In the beginning I was very nervous, but during the match, it got better.  But I was very excited to play, yeah.  It was a great experience for me. 

Q.  Talk about having the opportunity for players like yourself to face off against a Lindsay Davenport. 

EVELINE VANHYFTE:  Yeah, in normal tournaments, tournaments I play, I don't get opportunities to play against players that are ranked so high.  So for me this was a big opportunity to play against someone like Lindsay Davenport, the No. 1 of the world.  I think I can only learn from this match and probably this will help me in the future to improve my tennis. 

Q.  How did playing against Lindsay work out in terms of what you thought it would be?  Was she even better than you thought the No. 1 player in the world would be or about how you expected? 

EVELINE VANHYFTE:  Well, of course, I expected a very good player.  Yeah, it came out like that also.  She's serving so well, it's very difficult to get in the game.  But, of course, I was impressed of Lindsay.  You have to be very good to be No. 1 the world, yeah. 

Q.  When did you for sure know you would be playing? 

EVELINE VANHYFTE:  The coach told me on Friday just before practice.  He told me that I was going to play.  He didn't know it.  I think he decided in the morning.  But when I found out, yeah, I was very happy. 

Q.  What day did you know you were going to be on the team? 

EVELINE VANHYFTE:  On the team? 

Q.  Was there a team where you were in limbo, thinking whether Kim or Justine would be playing?  When did you firm up you would be playing?

EVELINE VANHYFTE:  One month ago.  I don't know the exact date, but it was around 20th of March, something like that. 

Q.  Did you expect the pace of her groundstrokes to be as hard as they were?

EVELINE VANHYFTE:  Yes.  The thing is they're very hard and they're very close to the lines.  I think that's the big thing about Lindsay, she's playing so close to the lines, that it's very difficult to get in the game.  I think that's the main thing about her game. 

Q.  In the end, was it more fun or more humbling? 

EVELINE VANHYFTE:  No, it was more fun for me because the experience for me was, yeah, really great.  Yeah, I was very happy to play.  I felt good on the court.  The atmosphere was great also, yeah. 

Q.  When are you going to call home? 

EVELINE VANHYFTE:  Now I'm going to call because with everything around, you don't have a lot of time to call home.  Really, it's not easy, everything is going so fast here (laughter). 

Q.  Who was the highest-ranked player you played in a match before this? 

EVELINE VANHYFTE:  Well, actually it was another American player, Alexandra Stevenson.  I played her once in the WTA tournament in Antwerp. 

Q.  How did that go? 

EVELINE VANHYFTE:  I lost also.  I think it was 6-2, 6-2.  She's also taller than me.  I don't know what happen, but I play against taller players than me (laughter). 

Q.  Was the crowd what you anticipated?  Did you expect it to be more lively or about as much as it was out here today? 

EVELINE VANHYFTE:  No, I think the crowd was great.  I think, yeah, I'm playing in the USA, so it's normal they are cheering for Lindsay.  But I think they were very fair in the game.  Yeah, they were good. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT