HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 5, 2015
Sock Hwee Koh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   First round, HSBC Women's Champions 2015.   Talk us through your round.   How was it out there? 
SOCK HWEE KOH:   It was okay.   I chipped it all right.   Struggled a little bit on the back nine in between but apart from that I felt like I handled myself really well. 
First hole, once I teed up the ball, I was really nervous.   Before that warming up and everything, I felt I was all right.   But once I tee off, nerves really got into me.   But I hit a good shot down the fairway, so everything was nice.   After I put the 12th, I think everything just settled me down, so I had quite a good‑‑ I mean, decent start and then I doubled the 15th, and then made some birdies.
So I felt like I did all right.   Just messed up a few holes on the back nine, but I feel good. 

Q.   And carding 7‑over.   Plan for tomorrow? 
SOCK HWEE KOH:   Just keep going.   I don't think I'll change my game plan.   I just want to focus on each shot at a time.   Even today, I think when I was up there, I just focus on where I wanted to hit it and everything.   Not really thinking much about the scores, just keep going.   It's like a marathon, just keep going.

Q.   And you're out there with Anna Nordqvist and So Yeon Ryu; how was your pairing? 
SOCK HWEE KOH:   It was nice, actually like really friendly.   So I had a few chats here and there along the way.   I like my draw.   I enjoyed myself out there.

Q.   Still very much early days, but what are your initial takings from competing in a tournament like this with the elite field that you're up against? 
SOCK HWEE KOH:   The scores are quite low out there today.   I guess today the wind is not really up.   I mean, I see a couple of good scores, and, I don't know, I just want to focus on my own game and not think too much about the end result.

Q.   Enjoying the experience?
SOCK HWEE KOH:   Absolutely. 

Q.   Any target score? 
SOCK HWEE KOH:   I'm not really focusing on it.   Like I say all day, I just want to go out and focus on hit be every shot, every hole.   I had some bad holes out there but I just move on, just keep going.   There's really nothing I can do, so I just want to play my own game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT