HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 4, 2015
Sock Hwee Koh
Jing Yan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Okay.   We have Jing Yan here and local qualifier here.   Does anyone have any questions for them?   
   
 Q.   Maybe you can just tell us a little bit about your expectations for this week, and what you feel about the status and condition of the golf course?   
JING YAN:   I think the course is in really good condition as always.   It's always played really tough, as you've seen every year watching the tournament.   It's good to get to play it this year, and I'm really thankful to HSBC for inviting me to play in this tournament, because it's just a really great opportunity on a world stage, and hopefully I'll just be able to play my own game, take it one shot at a time and post a good result out there.   
   
 Q.   Do you have in your mind an idea of the kind of scores that you are looking to shoot?   Is even par your tar get?   
JING YAN:   Not really.   I think it's not that I really put a target in my mind.   Just try to play the best I can every shot, so try not to limit myself.   
SOCK HWEE KOH:   Like Jennifer said, the course is in great shape.   I practised here but don't get to practice on tournament ready condition.   The greens are rolling really well, really fast, really firm.   It's in great shape.   
For myself, expectations‑wise, a lot of people are saying, of course, qualifier always finish last but just haven't been giving it a lot of thought.   Just want to go out there and enjoy myself and feel plea the best I can.   
Like Jennifer said, I don't think it's a number you want to putt on your receive.   You just go out there, grind a number and if you're playing well, just go with the flow.   
It's a tough course, but just feeling comfortable on the course itself, it's‑lot more of a mental itchy think.   You just feel comfortable standing up on the tee.   I think it's more like a mental, you're just more comfortable being out there.   You know you've played this course many times.   
JING YAN:   And also, just all the family and friends.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT