HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 25, 2012
Sock Hwee Koh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Okay, so how do you find your performance today? 
SOCK HWEE KOH:   A lot better than the first two days.   Started better.   Everything just got rolling better a lot earlier.   After the game yesterday, my caddie and I, we worked on my chipping and putting a bit.   We left quite late.   Did a bit of work just to get confidence back, and today everything was a lot better.   I was out there with a lot more confidence, just feeling like I could do my usual thing here.   Today was in general a lot better, even though the scores were just not‑‑ not like they were great, but you know, I still feel a lot better with a 78 now. 
Stay patient for tomorrow, last day, just go and enjoy.   I mean, when am I ever going to be in such an event ever again?   Just going to enjoy.   Try to better my score today but no pressure. 

Q.   How do you think you'll play differently tomorrow? 
SOCK HWEE KOH:   I probably won't play anything differently, but somehow today, the course just seems a lot easier.   When you know you're playing well, everything just seems a lot better and easier.   I'll just stick to the game plan and just stick to using that.

Q.   So you mentioned yesterday that you are driving well but you don't seem to be putting very well and chipping very well.   So after working on your chipping and putting yesterday, do you think it really helped you? 
SOCK HWEE KOH:   Yes, definitely, working off the practise green yesterday, I just had a lot more confidence.   Coming into today, I know I can do it.   I know I can execute shots, and also, definitely it was a lot of a confidence boost.   I know if I miss the green, I can chip up‑and‑down from there to save par. 
First two days, just go there and I'm just praying and hoping that I do a good chip to get of save par.   Yeah, definitely helped a lot.   It does help a lot mentally more than just technique‑wise, but, yeah, just gives me an added boost.

Q.   Today was you and Christina Kim on the flight together, did it take pressure off you, since I know you are comfortable with her. 
SOCK HWEE KOH:   She's always a nice person to play with.   She's really nice.   Yeah, maybe if I was playing with Michelle Wie again today, probably felt a little bit more pressure but thankfully it was just Christina.   She's really nice and she talks to me and asks questions about Singapore, and just takes pressure off the game as well.   It was really a fun game with her. 

Q.   Do you know who you are paired with tomorrow?
SOCK HWEE KOH:   I think it's probably going to be her and Michelle Wie.   Not sure how Michelle Wie shot, but maybe it will just be the three of us again.   I think it's going to be a three ball flight again. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT