HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 23, 2012
Sock Hwee Koh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SOCK HWEE KOH:   You know, like take it easy for a start but then I start making bogeys, it keeps adding up. 

Q.   So what is your expectation? 
SOCK HWEE KOH:   I just want to go and enjoy.   I mean, today, not saying I didn't enjoy, but first I think just too much pressure on myself and I just forget, and just playing and enjoying the atmosphere.
I think I just want to start that tomorrow, and the score‑‑ just let it happen. 

Q.   Who is following you? 
SOCK HWEE KOH:   I had my family following you, as well as two of my close friends. 

Q.   Family is who? 
SOCK HWEE KOH:   My parents and my two brothers. 

Q.   How key was it, you said you did not start well today; so how key is it to start well tomorrow?
SOCK HWEE KOH:   Starting well always takes the pressure off the rest of the round.   You just don't think as much, because you've got the ball rolling and a good start, and you just want to keep it going.   It's much easier to just let it happen once it starts well. 

Q.   Did Katherine say anything to you? 
SOCK HWEE KOH:   She was really nice, like come and talk to me.   Katherine, I have always known her as‑‑ people have always said she is a very nice person, and she's very encouraging, also.   They ask me if I want anything‑‑ they just make like small talk to me as well. 

Q.   Your performance today, what do you think of it?
SOCK HWEE KOH:   I shot ten over, not as good as I wanted to start, but I was really nervous when I started.   I was really nervous, I started with a bogey and everything kept‑‑ once I got a bogey, it just keeps adding up.   You want to stop the bogey, but yet you try too hard.   I was just really scared.   I was being overly offensive, and I didn't start to well.   I didn't have any high scores but just soft bogeys, soft bogeys, I just felt that I left a lot out there. 

Q.   Did you talk to ease the nerves a bit‑‑
SOCK HWEE KOH:   I was talking much more to my caddie, until suddenly my flat mates approach me and start asking me questions and I felt a lot better. 

Q.   What did they ask you about? 
SOCK HWEE KOH:   I think because my coach, Chris, his friend‑‑ he actually asked me how long have I been with Chris and if I intend to turn pro.   I actually don't remember what else she asked me‑‑ she asked me if I'm studying, so just small talk. 

Q.   Did it help calm your nerves a bit? 
SOCK HWEE KOH:   I guess it did.   You know, you just feel a bit more relaxed.   But then I was still‑‑ like I was still stressed over when I was like hitting the ball, but just the atmosphere and the flight became a little bit better.

Q.   And also, because you are a local representative, that must have added some pressure to you, as well? 
SOCK HWEE KOH:   Definitely, but like coming to this tournament, I try not to think too much about it.   But you can't help but think about it.   So just have to deal with it a bit better tomorrow. 

Q.   I know it's too early, but what is some of the things that you intend to do differently for tomorrow? 
SOCK HWEE KOH:   I'm going to practise on my putting.   I really need to work on my putting.   My coach is here, I think that will help me a bit.   I'm actually hitting the ball quite good.   I think if I make some putts tomorrow, I can actually come back for a pretty good score.   Not looking at something under par, but decently close to 2‑ or 3‑over I think can be done. 

Q.   So just overall just to sum it up, how would you sum up your debut performance in this tournament? 
SOCK HWEE KOH:   I like to say I still enjoy it.   I wish I could really just go out there and didn't bother about anything else and just play, but it didn't happen that way.   I just learn to enjoy it even more the next few days.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT