NCAA WOMEN'S 1ST & 2ND ROUNDS REGIONALS: BATON ROUGE
March 22, 2008
Doug Bruno
Allie Quigley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Coach Bruno, your opening statement, please. 
 COACH BRUNO:  DePaul won 70 percent of the basketball game, but it was the wrong 70 percent, and Marist won 30 percent of the game, and it was the right 30 percent.  The reason we got beat tonight was because Marist was tougher, smarter and better.  The second reason, the same basketball team that outrebounded Marist 30 to 15 at halftime got outrebounded 20 to 14 in the second half.  Again, I just want to make sure that this Marist team, I think the nation understands how good they are. 
 Believe me, I believed how good they were before we played this game tonight.  If our basketball team is good enough to be able to be up 11 at the 11-minute media timeout, then we should be good enough to finish the basketball game.  But the reason we didn't was because, again, at that timeout -- let's just ask questions and I'll go there later.  Go ahead. 

 Q.  Allie, seems like everything was going you guys' way.  Do you have any idea what kind of happened to flip the switch?  And what was it like out there for you? 
 ALLIE QUIGLEY:  Yeah, definitely the momentum changed.  I think that we just didn't guard them.  We didn't get rebounds and they did a pretty good job of everything basically, shooting.  Viani went off, and defensive rebounding, and once again, they were better off. 
 THE MODERATOR:  We'll excuse the students and thank them very much.  Coach, would you like to continue your discussion and then we'll ask whether there are any questions from the group? 
 COACH BRUNO:  I mean, when you ask me to continue the discussion, the 11-minute timeout, I remember it like it was a second ago, and we knew -- we stated to our team that Coach is going to take over the game with No. 12, and No. 3, Viani is going to take over the game on her own.  These are issues that we had thought we had prepared for, and that's exactly what happened at that moment.  Fitz and Viani took over the game, and we had no answers for them. 
 Again, I'm very -- I'm very irritated about the lack of -- no, I'm so happy for Marist.  They're just a great group of young women. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Coach, thank you very much.  You had a great season, and best wishes for next year. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT