INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 14, 2018
Rob Phinisee
Al Durham
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Back in the top-25 this week I guess what does that mean just being there?  I know it's more about maybe the end of the season where you guys are in March, but just at this point having that national prominence and being in that conversation what does that mean as a team to be in the top-25?  
AL DURHAM: I mean the hard work is just like it's starting to show, so I feel like just getting notification on a national level is just showing the hard work is really paying off for us, I would say.   
 Q.  How much do you, I guess, embrace that without getting too caught up in it and in a place where that kind of performance is obviously you want to make it more of an expectation?  
ROB PHINISEE: We just really just try to focus on what we're doing in practice and not worry about what we're receiving on the national level and just locked into what coach is telling us to do.   
 Q.  What do you remember being at Bankers Life last year at the end of that game?  What was that like to watch that?  
AL DURHAM: Just to see that and be a part of that, just watching that amazing performance and being a part of it, just us coming back and fighting hard and getting that win at the end of the day it was just amazing, it was like one-of-a-kind atmosphere.  So I feel like just being a part of that was really great.   
 Q.  Your two co-captains made a play for the best free throw.  Talk about that?  
AL DURHAM: Most definitely.  Zach grabbed the rebound, he dropped it of to J-Mo, he dunked it, and the whole place just exploded.  I feel that's like when we felt like we really had it and we just went off of that energy off that amazing play that Zach made and it just took care of itself.   
 Q.  It's not been that long since you were recruited by Butler.  What did you respect about that program and what did you like about what they did there?  
ROB PHINISEE: I know I was recruited by them with the coach that's at Ohio State now.  But I mean just being the underdogs and coming in looking to knock off top-ranked opponents, I really respected that and just the atmospheres they had at games it was pretty good.   
 Q.  What do you guys need to do to stop Baldwin?  
ROB PHINISEE: Really just play team defense and just lock in really and just help each other.   
 Q.  What impresses you guys about the back court in general, not just him, but Jorgensen and the other guys?  
AL DURHAM: They're really great players.  We got to lock in and key in on their tendencies and keep going over it with the team and just keep working on it in practice and just make sure we execute the game plan that coach brings to us.   
 Q.  How have you guys taken advantage of this time?  Obviously it's a little balance with finals week and everything, but coach talked about the importance of when you guys are practicing, like really practicing hard and things like that.  How have you managed to take advantage of that time when you are in practice?  
AL DURHAM: Studying for finals, coming in, practicing, so we try to take advantage of the time we got on the court because you know how finals can be, so we just try to take advantage of the time on the court, go over things that we need to and just try to make the most of what we got.   
ROB PHINISEE: Really just take time and rest and just get a lot of sleep and really just not do things that are stupid.   
 Q.  So you're not pulling all-nighters?  
ROB PHINISEE: No.  No.   
 Q.  Rob, what's it going to be like playing in Bankers Life in an in-state battle against Butler?  
ROB PHINISEE: It's going to be pretty surreal, just all the in-state schools.  I know I'm from Indiana so just going in there, last time I was there, besides a closed scrimmage was the state championship, so I know it's going to be a great atmosphere and I'm just really looking forward to it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT