INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
January 31, 2020
De'Ron Davis
Rob Phinisee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  De'Ron, just playing against Ohio State's bigs, obviously you guys did it a month ago, but the second time around, what you've seen on film and stuff like that?  
DE'RON DAVIS: Honestly we've just got to continue to be as physical as possible without fouling. We have to wall up, and we just have to try to eliminate as many post-up opportunities as we can really and just try to keep the ball out of his hands.   
 Q.  Rob, looking back to the Penn State game, kind of obviously well-documented you guys struggled to shoot the ball, but looking back at the film, it looked like you guys were getting good shots, just not making them. Is that what you guys saw when you watched the film of that game or was it something different?  
ROB PHINISEE: Yeah, a little bit. I felt like we did have some good looks that didn't go down. At the end of the day we have to make shots when we need them. We can't dwell on the past, just move forward and win the next game.   
 Q.  Just following up on that, how much do you guys think about the way you guys played at Penn State? Do you try to completely put it out of the way or is there anything you emphasize in practice going into another road game this weekend?  
ROB PHINISEE: Yeah, you really can't look at the past. You can't get too high after a win and then too low after a loss, we just take it one game at a time.   
 Q.  De'Ron, your teammates and coaches have always gone crazy for passing out of the post. When you first get the ball, where do your eyes go first, or does it depend on what other defenders are doing to kind of double-team you or whatnot? How does that process work for you?  
DE'RON DAVIS: Well, we have a lot of movement in our offense, so I guess as soon as I get the ball, I kind of just check middle to see if there's a double coming right away from the middle, and then I do my crab, and if I have an opportunity to make a move, I make a move first and then I kind of read my teammates. My teammates do a great job of moving around the perimeter, and so it's easy to find them, especially when they interchange on the opposite side, and the defense kind of lose their man on the interchange, and you'll find like Rob or Al in the corner.   
 Q.  For either player, Archie discussed getting to the free-throw line, maybe being a little more aggressive. How do you guys try to execute that tomorrow and kind of going forward considering how important it is for this team?  
ROB PHINISEE: Yeah, that's how we want to play, inside out. I feel like once we draw fouls into the big guys, if we can draw fouls on Wesson, I feel like that'll be a big thing for us tomorrow. Really just try to have an inside-out approach, and I feel like that'll help.   
 Q.  Rob, last year you were a freshman point guard in a big role on the team and this year it's kind of Armon playing in the backcourt. How have you seen him grow over the season and what have you given him in terms of advice?  
ROB PHINISEE: I've seen him grow a lot. The season is really long, so there's always going to be adversity in everything. Really just tell him keep a level head and really just work hard in practice, and I feel like it'll translate in the game.   
 Q.  De'Ron, obviously early in the season I think the minutes were kind of limited. You've been playing more lately, getting some jump shots, feeding guys. Do you feel like you're in more of a rhythm, gotten more comfortable as the year has gone on?  
DE'RON DAVIS: Yeah, I have. Each game we play, I just continue to -- you build your chemistry with the guys on the court and your rhythm. The more and more time I get on the court, the more and more I get a better feel, and I think the better I do.   
 Q.  Coach touched on it a little bit, but with the situation with DJ Carton at Ohio State. How much as student-athletes is that something with mental health that you guys are talking about, either with coaches or with people around the facilities?  
DE'RON DAVIS: I mean, I'm on the diverse council group that kind of focuses and gives their opinion on mental health and just stuff to help athletes around campus, and I feel like we actually just talked about this a couple days ago, that there's a lot of -- this school, IU in particular does a great job of giving students, not only student-athletes, what's it called, like an outlet or someone to talk to, so I feel like we always have someone that is always talking to us or texting us like just little things, and we do a good job as a team just staying together connected. So I feel like if we just talk within each other and just have a family bond, it'll help us out a lot, especially with mental health.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT