INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
January 10, 2020
Joey Brunk
Rob Phinisee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Joey, I think there's probably not a more talked-about guy in the league than Kaleb Wesson and what he's grown into as a player and the way he can go inside and outside, obviously the physical challenge he presents. For a team that has depth of bodies inside, how do you prepare to defend a guy like that when maybe you know it's not going to be one guy but two or three guys taking on that matchup as the game wears on?  
JOEY BRUNK: He's a really skilled player and has a lot of talent, and we have a lot of guys that are ready for the challenge and want to play hard and play hard in spurts, and someone's going to be ready to step up for the challenge come tomorrow.   
 Q.  Rob, Coach was talking about turnovers kind of killing you guys. What are the things you guys have to do better to play more secure with the ball do you think?  
ROB PHINISEE: I'd say once we -- really just move the ball, move the ball, and everyone just has to really move and talk really. I say sometimes we have a miscommunication, and that can mess things up, too. So really just play together and play as one.   
 Q.  Rob, just how are you continuing to come along physically at this point in the season? And being able to kind of make some plays late in the game, the alley-oop to Trayce, how did that feel confidence wise going into this game?  
ROB PHINISEE: Yeah, I'm coming along pretty well. Really taking it day by day really. Just work hard in practice and I feel like it'll translate to the game. So I'm really working hard in practice and really just making every play I need for my team.   
 Q.  Joey, I feel like we've talked to you guys about Trayce Jackson-Davis a lot, but just his progress at this point in the season, before we enter BIG TEN, how do you feel like he's kind of grown since the beginning of the season and especially here lately?  
JOEY BRUNK: I think Trayce is continuing to get better. He works hard in practice. He's got a lot of physical gifts, and those continue to be an asset for him. He continues to develop his skill, and I think he's starting to realize some of the spots on his floor he gets his looks. And I think as the year goes on, he's only going to continue to get better as he gets more acclimated to BIG TEN play.   
 Q.  Joey, can you talk a little bit about the frustration level of Wednesday night when you guys were down 10 and then the rally to come back and win and how that may have impacted what the last couple days have been like practice wise to turn that corner in that game as quickly as you guys did?  
JOEY BRUNK: It was kind of one of those moments in the game where we knew we had to turn things around, and it's been a point of emphasis to play with energy and play for each other these past two days. And we want to carry that over to tomorrow afternoon.   
 Q.  Just speak to the last couple of days in practice. Has it been a little more intense than you've seen in the past?  
ROB PHINISEE: A little. I mean, practices with Coach Miller are really intense. But it's picked up a little bit, like you said, but besides that, I feel like we just have to come out tomorrow and play with energy from the go, and just play 40 minutes like that.   
 Q.  Joey, obviously you played for Chris Holtmann. What are some of the things that kind of define his teams and what do you know about Ohio State just because they're coached by Chris Holtmann?  
JOEY BRUNK: They're going to have guys that play hard. They're going to be tough. They're going to be tough-minded, and they're going to play for each other, and they're going to play the right way. That's the reason why I wanted to play for him out of the gate.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT