INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 26, 2019
Romeo Langford
Rob Phinisee
Race Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Indiana - 75, Wisconsin - 73   
 Q.  Romeo, it's simple.  Iverson gave you trouble all night, but what did you see on that last play, just how did you get him kind of moving the wrong way to open that lane?  
ROMEO LANGFORD: Rob came up to the screen, and they messed up the read on it.  I just seen a lane to get to the basket, and that's just what I did.   
 Q.  Race, for you not only getting meaningful minutes in the game, but kind of getting thrown to the fire there with the overtime periods.  How did you kind of keep yourself calm and composed during that stretch, and how do you think you performed out there?  
RACE THOMPSON: I kept calm because my teammates, I know they have faith in me.  They keep telling me I'm good, like you got this.  This is what we do for a living.  There was no reason for me to be nervous or nothing.  That's what we do.  I think I just played to my strengths and did what I had to do.   
 Q.  For all of you guys, so many of these types of close games have gone against you guys this season.  What made tonight different?  
ROB PHINISEE: I'd say the home crowd.  Home crowd got into it.  I feel like that boosted us.  The next man stepped up, and that helped us a lot.   
 Q.  Race, you've been able to go against De'Ron Davis and Juwan Morgan in practice consistently.  How did that help you for your matchup today against Ethan Happ?  
RACE THOMPSON: It helped me a lot going up against them every day is not easy at all.  They're really good players.  So we help each other every day in practice.  So we really help each other.   
 Q.  For any of you three guys, it's a double overtime game.  You're all freshmen.  You're the ones sitting in here talking about it.  I know some guys fouled out and things like that, but for a young team, just how much of a learning experience have some of these close games been, whether it's a win against Michigan State and Wisconsin or some of the close losses the last couple weeks?  
ROMEO LANGFORD: Like you said, we've been in a lot of close games.  This team is majority young and new faces onto the scene, but I just feel like the games we played in the first half of the season and then some of the games we played in the second half, which came down to the wire, just prepared us for this.  We learned from our mistakes for the ones that we lost and kept on battling, and we came up on top today.   
 Q.  Guys, for any of you, after the Minnesota game, I guess it would have been easy for you guys to play out the rest of the season.  The last three games, I know you only won one of them.  You showed a lot of fight.  What has kept this team together and kind of continuing to play hard despite the losing?  
ROB PHINISEE: I say our leadership from J. Mo and just the seniors.  We don't want to go out on a bad note.  Like you said, we could have did that, but we just stayed together, and we're just going to keep fighting.   
 Q.  One of you guys mentioned the close games you guys played in the first half of the season.  Did tonight remind you of the team you were in December?  Just the sort of games you won during that stretch.  
ROMEO LANGFORD: I felt like the last three games really reminded us of ourself in the beginning of the season, just how hard we've been playing and hold ourself on defense, even though we came up short.  Especially tonight, we went in two overtimes.  Beginning of the season, we didn't give up on like if a team made a run on us.  Wisconsin made a run on us.  We got up by ten, and they came back and took the lead, and we didn't panic and just stayed with it.   
 Q.  For any of you all, it's kind of a simple question, but just from an emotional standpoint, what does pulling out a victory, not only to have something in the win column, but in this kind of gritty style, double overtime, what does that do for your confidence keeping you going as the season nears the end?  
ROB PHINISEE: It is a confidence booster.  We just have to build off that, take it one game at a time and bring it for Michigan State Saturday.   
 Q.  Romeo, what does it mean to just come through with a shot like that basically?  You've had the ball in your hands late in the game in certain situations.  This time you're able to take it to somebody.  What does it mean for you when you have your ball in the hand at the end to be the guy that makes that shot?  
ROMEO LANGFORD: I mean, just finally I hit one.  I know the past two times I had it in my hand at the end of the game, it didn't come out as we planned.  I just learned from mistakes in the past two, settling for a jump shot, and I felt like they couldn't stop me getting to the rim.  That's exactly what I did, and I made the shot.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT