U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
April 30, 2019
Rachel Heck
Sadie Englemann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just tell us, you seemed to have it really going today as a team once again.  Tell us a little bit about how it started off for you.  Talk about both matches really if you don't mind.
SADIE ENGLEMANN: Well, I think we played well when the other person was down.  I think that's a really good thing we did today.  We never really played bad together, so I think that was really important in both matches.
Yeah.
RACHEL HECK: Yeah, we just played great as a team.  Keep each other positive.  Other one would get down, other one hit a good shot and tell the other one to keep their head up.
We just had a lot fun again.  We're best friends, and like I said before, we don't get the opportunity to play in this format so we're having so much fun and taking in every second.
SADIE ENGLEMANN: Yeah.
Q. How often was it that one or the other of you was not in trouble, but not in good shape for a par?
SADIE ENGLEMANN: I would say fairly often.
RACHEL HECK: Yeah, I felt like one of us played the first match better and one of us played the second match better.
Q. Who is who?
RACHEL HECK: I played the first match better and she played the second match better.  But it's not like the other one was shooting 80.  We were still making pars.
SADIE ENGLEMANN: Yeah, we were still playing good golf.
Q. Yeah, yeah.  There were a lot of matches, couple matches went overtime.  Came down to the 18th hole.  You guys didn't play nearly as much golf as some of the other teams have.  Do you think of it in terms of you're a little bit more fresh for tomorrow, didn't play as many, or once you get to 14, 15, 16 holes it's all kind of the same?
RACHEL HECK: Right.  We were actually just talking about that on the way back.  We were like, Oh, they're still playing out there.  We get to come in.  Save my legs for tomorrow.  I can tell you we're tired right now.
SADIE ENGLEMANN: Yeah.  It's a lot of golf to play.  But, yeah, it was nice.
Q. How often in the past have you had to play 36 holes in one day?
SADIE ENGLEMANN: I did it a few times in high school and one or two AJGAs that we do it in.  It's not that often.  I think with all the golf we played prior to this the past few days, I think that made it a little harder today.
Wasn't terrible.
Q. Has anybody been hitting it well or maybe the other one putting it and getting up and down well?  You both contributing?
SADIE ENGLEMANN: Kind of rotated really.
RACHEL HECK: Yeah, it definitely changed.
SADIE ENGLEMANN: We both had really hot putting streaks, which has gotten us to win a few holes in a row which helped a lot.
Then I think both of us just hitting pretty steady and solid all week so it's helped.
RACHEL HECK: Yeah.
Q. Any particular holes that just fit your eye?  Have you just been really getting more and more familiar with the golf course as the week goes on?
SADIE ENGLEMANN: Honestly, no specific holes, but I think definitely as we keep playing we're getting more comfortable, especially with the par-5s.
I think stroke play especially, like the first played stretch like 8 through 12 pretty well.  Just kind of get into it.  We won a couple holes that way today.
Q. This type of course - older course, Ross course, push-up greens, really slope from back to front -- do you have any experience on these kind of courses and do you like playing golf here?
SADIE ENGLEMANN: Oh, absolutely, yes.  The course is in perfect shape.  It's so much fun to play.  The greens are definitely really difficult, but they're in perfect condition.  You're rewarded for good shots and punished for bad shots.  It's a fair course and it's really fun to play for match play.
RACHEL HECK: Yeah, and it's a lot different than most courses we play.  I can't think of another course really similar to this.  I mean, I think No. 14 out here has a turtleback green.  I've never played on a turtleback green.
SADIE ENGLEMANN: Yeah.
RACHEL HECK: It's kind of scary honestly.  It's a really fun golf course.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT