ATP CUP
January 4, 2020
Nicolas Jarry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








B. PAIRE/N. Jarry
6-7, 6-3, 6-3
France - 1
Chile - 0
THE MODERATOR: Who has the first question?
Q. What you were thoughts overall on the match?
NICOLAS JARRY: I think it wasn't a great match on my side. I was able to play well a couple moments throughout the whole match, but when I had a little bit of more advantage a set and a break I lost a little of my head. I missed many things. I hesitate and doubt myself a little bit. And that's the, I think that's just the key of where the match went. I think that he was always imposing, dictating points and stuff and nothing, like I had to control better my head. I'm doing a lot of changes, so sometimes they mix up. But I tried to stay there in the second set, at the beginning I had a couple chances, didn't take them, and then he did well. So congrats for him for playing the way that he had to play to beat me.
Q. You say you're making a lot of changes to your game. Mentally or what do you mean exactly?
NICOLAS JARRY: Yeah, everything. I just changed coach for first time in all my career, so we're adapting things. And nothing we haven't -- I think we have improved a lot of things since the three to four weeks that I've been training with Dante. And I have to just be calm and trust the process that this will lead to be a better player. And, yeah, I think it will be a bit, I don't know the word in English, but to think that all the changes will work in the first match. But I think Paire, that he's 20-something in the world and I felt that I had that match throughout the whole, it was only depending upon me, so I think that's good. I think I just need to -- those moments, I need to control myself in those moments of the match, and I think the results will start to come. He's a great competitor and he proved that today.
Q. What made you want to work with Dante? He obviously has a lot of experience.
NICOLAS JARRY: Yeah, he has a lot of experience. I think he's a great coach. To be able to be with Kei for many years, he has a lot of knowledge, and I think it was a great fit for me. He's from Argentina but he's based in South America, so he knows both games, both mentalities. He will understand me and my way of being because we're from South America and different cultures, so it will be really good. It will be a great team and I'm very happy for it to go through, and I think I'm very happy with him right now. I think he's -- also, we're training very hard. And nothing, I think this is the first match, I think to be the first match of the season to lose to a great guy, it's okay. It wasn't that bad, with all the changes and stuff. So I'll have two more chances coming up in a couple more days so I'll try to recover that as much as possible.
Q. What do you think of the atmosphere out there with your teammates nearby, just the overall atmosphere?
NICOLAS JARRY: Yeah, it's amazing here to play, to play in Australia. There's a lot of Chilean guys so I feel a lot of support. It's great to be here. I like the format to be with the coaches there. It's nice. It's different. I would have liked to have the players to be a little bit more closer to fill in a little bit more. I think they were too distant. But, so, yeah, but it was nice. It's nice to play in a group event the same as Davis Cup. It's special and it gives you energy in the moments that you're a little bit down.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT