UL INTERNATIONAL CROWN
October 4, 2018
Jessica Korda
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you just describe the roller coaster of a day that today was?
JESSICA KORDA: They got off to a really hot start.  I mean if Anna wasn't making a birdie, Caroline was making a birdie, so it was hard to get into it.  I had, the first shot in I hit a bomb drive and it ends up in a divot.  And half the lies out here were just in slight holes.  So when you had a chance you didn't really like you could really take advantage of it.  Then we started making a charge out there, but just, it is what it is.  It's match play.  Like it's not stroke play.  I don't know what to say other than that.
Q. You dug yourself kind of a hole.  Did you guys, did you say something, what were you thinking about how to get it back?
MICHELLE WIE: Just kept waiting for an opportunity.  That's really, we told each other that we're just going to keep going and keep going.
Q. How is your wrist?  Your first real round back in a long time.
MICHELLE WIE: It felt pretty good.  There were a couple of lies out there that were not ideal.  It's a tough golf course with the lies out here, the conditions.  And every single ball we just had were just in the fairway but in a like we hit the drive really great, then in a hole.  And I was just like, it's a little bit tough when that happens, but it happened to Anna and it's happened to everyone, we're not the only ones.  But I felt pretty good, I'm excited.  Completed day one.  I'm proud of us for making it to 18.  We were down very fast, very early, but we fought hard and I'm proud of my partner.  Tomorrow we're excited.
Q. Was there a point where you were afraid to hit a shot out a few of those holes with your wrist?
MICHELLE WIE: You always have that little bit of fear.  I think any time you have a past injury, any time you see a lie you just know it's going to hurt, but it was fine.
Q. Do you feel like you got something though, turning it around that you can use again?
JESSICA KORDA: Oh, yeah.  For sure.
MICHELLE WIE: Today was definitely a learning experience.  It's the first tournament I played since the British Open and just throwing it in in match play it definitely took a couple holes to get the rust off.  But I'm extremely excited for tomorrow.  I think we're playing good.
JESSICA KORDA: They just played really well, right off the bat we were 1-down, so -- and then we were 2-down and 3-down.  And then I hit it to like two feet or whatever, three feet, and here comes another putt coming in on top of it.
MICHELLE WIE: They made a lot of long putts on us today.  It wasn't like they were sticking it, they just putted great.
Q. How many people in the gallery were friends and family, like a dozen?
MICHELLE WIE: I think.  So there weren't as many today.  I asked for 50 passes, so.
Q. So it's going to grow.
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT