CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 21, 2014
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   Happy to be joined in the media center by Michelle Wie after a 5‑under, 67 today.   What was the difference for you out there today? 
MICHELLE WIE:   You know, it really wasn't that big of a difference.   Kind of felt like I was a bit frustrated yesterday because I felt like everything was so close.   Caught a couple bad breaks. 
But, you know, my irons weren't as good as today.   So I worked the range a little bit with Leadbetter yesterday after my rounds and felt like we kind of figured out a little something.
So I felt good today. 
MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   Given the injury kind of derailed your momentum, what would a strong finish mean to you? 
MICHELLE WIE:   It would mean a lot to me.   You know, I feel like I played well in Asia and kind of gained a little bit of momentum back.
But even with the injury and all I'm very happy with how things went this season.   There is a lot of positives to remember from and build upon for next season.
For this week all I want is an opportunity, a chance.   I'm really proud of myself for giving myself that today.   I just want to go out there tomorrow and put myself in a great position for Sunday.
That's all I want and that's all I'm asking for.   Whatever happens, happens.

Q.   Everybody has talked all week about is there more pressure because of all that's on the line.   Are you feeling that at all?   Is there any more intensity than any other week?
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, you know, I think with the Race to CME, on top of it being the last tournament of the season, it's exactly like final exams where what you learned about the season you kind of want to use in this week.
But at the same time, you really can't put too much pressure on yourself.   It's kind of the same mentality as a major.   You can't put pressure on yourself.   It's the same golf tournament.   You're playing 18 holes.   You need to do the same thing you do any other week.
So that's what I focused on today, kind of hitting the shots and really staying in the present and not really focusing on, Oh, what would this mean?   What would this do?   How does it change my standings in this tournament or whatever. 
Just got to hit good golf shots, make some putts and let it take care of the rest.

Q.   Because there is nothing after this week, I mean, it's one of the situations where you can put it all out there because you don't have to go get on a plane and go to the next one. 
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, it's kind of a good last tournament to just, Okay, this is what I did this season.   Just kind of build upon that for next season.
At the same time, even though you have like a month or so in between.   It's still a continuous cycle.   You still build upon this week.   It doesn't end after this tournament. 
I kind of practice after that tournament and you just have to build upon it. 

Q.   How did you make bogey on No. 1?   How did you feel about it?   Could you talk about the 7th hole? 
MICHELLE WIE:   I hit it right off the tee and I had a pretty good chip‑out and I hit a hook with my 6‑iron.
Thought it was going to be pretty good.   A little short of the green.   Didn't get up‑and‑down.   I was pretty pissed. 

Q.   Irritated?
MICHELLE WIE:   Irritated.   You wanted that to fill your word quota? 

Q.   (No microphone.)
MICHELLE WIE:   (Laughter.)   Irritated.   I was irritated.   You never like to bogey a par‑5 nonetheless on the first hole, but I think it kind of fueled me.   I made a birdie on 3 and the hole‑out on 7 was a lot of fun as well.
But, yeah, sometimes I play well when I bogey the first hole because then I am very irritated. 

Q.   How about your distance on 7?
MICHELLE WIE:   It was 125 yards, and I hit a little pitching wedge. 

Q.   You were somewhat irritated after your round yesterday because you felt like you were so close, but then immediately said, Hey, I can't wait to get out here tomorrow because I can build on this.   Is that part of the maturation process that you've been through, you don't let bad rounds get to you too much?
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, that's the beauty of this game.   It's a hard game and you're going to have tough days out there.   At the same time, that's kind of the fun part about it.   You go out there after your round and try to figure it out.   I love that part. 
I love when you're not feeling comfortable‑‑ I love working with David and trying to figure out, Okay, what can I do to make myself more comfortable the next day.
There is always a next day, a next tournament.   You just got to work on some things if you need to.   If not, just keep playing.   It's a hard game.   You're going to have bad days and good days.
I just want to build upon today.   There are a lot of the positives.   Obviously some things I do want to work on for tomorrow. 
Just got to keep going what I'm doing. 

Q.   Just curious about this course compared to last year, how it's playing this year.   Do you feel like it favors you as a long player?
MICHELLE WIE:   You know, I think it is playing a lot longer than last year.   I feel like last year was very firm and balls were rolling out a lot.
Then again, the greens are playing a lot softer so that makes it a little bit easier.
It's a tough golf course.   It's not an easy one.   I thins par is a good.   Birdies are great, especially with the wind. 
I never really know if it favors me or not.   You got Julieta who's not a long hitter leading the scoreboard.
You just need to be in the right position and try to make some putts. 

Q.   Leadbetter was saying that your leg strength has improved a lot this season and how much that's helped your swing.   Can you comment on that and the stability you have and maybe how you've done that? 
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, for sure.   I always thought I was quote/unquote strong, but I really wasn't.   I was unstable.   I was not strong in the right places for the golf swing.   I really feel like Dave Donatucci this year has really helped me to figure out where I need to get stronger. 
There are certain things in my swing I wanted to fix with Leadbetter, but we just couldn't.   No matter how hard I tried, I just couldn't get in that position. 
But I feel like Donatucci really helped to get stronger and help the club to get in the right position.

Q.   Leadbetter went through the challenges with you at times when people were saying, Get rid of that guy.   Can you speak to why you stayed together and how satisfying it was to achieve this together?
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, when you're playing bad, it's not anyone else's fault.   It's not your caddie's, your coach's.   It's really you not being able to execute the shots and make the putts.
I've always believed in David's philosophies.   He's kind of like a second father to me.   I've been working with him since I was 13.   So he's definitely one person that has always believed in me no matter what. 
I believe that he's one of the best.   If I don't go to him, then I don't know who to go to.   I just needed to fix some things as a player, and it wasn't anyone's fault.
I always thought he said the right things and taught me the right way.   I just needed to learn how to execute it.

Q.   What kind of exercises or what do you do to strengthen your legs, and where?
MICHELLE WIE:   You know, I always thought, Oh, you need to do heavy weights whatever, squats.   But golf is a lot of fine motion.   A lot of little muscles here and there, little muscles in my butt that I have discovered over the past year that have been really hurting.

Q.   In your bottom. 
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah.   (Laughter.)   My bottom muscles were irritated all year.   (Laughter.)

Q.   What you said about David and it being no one's fault but yours, you've certainly heard a lot of the criticism of him over the last 10 years.   Was that hard to listen to?   Secondly, is it a little amusing when you hear coaches getting blamed?
MICHELLE WIE:   You know, I think everyone has their own reasons.   For me personally, I never like to play the blame game.   I think that people are really quick to blame people.
If my caddie gives me a bad read, I'm still the person that decides to listen to the guy and hit the right‑to‑left putt.   Everyone wants that player to play well. 
You never give bad advice because you want to or whatnot.   In the end, it's about the player executing the shot. 
I felt like David was obviously one of the top‑notch instructors out there, and he gave me the best advice that he gave me.   Whether or not it was good or not, I took it, I believed in it.   In tournaments I just didn't execute the shots.
So in the end, it was really all my fault, because I am the player and I take full responsibility for it.   But I felt like my support group was great with my parents, my agents, sponsors, everything. 
Kind of we all want the same thing and everyone is helping me achieve my goals, so I'm really grateful for everyone that has helped me.

Q.   You don't blame anybody for anything?
MICHELLE WIE:   No, I do it all the time.   No, I try obviously I am human, and internally I do feel like I play the blame game a lot. 
You have to take a step back and realize you're the one pulling the trigger and you have to take responsibility for what you do.
I'm a believer of that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT