CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 22, 2014
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Consistency.   Today was not very consistent.   What was the big issue out there today, do you think?  
MICHELLE WIE:   I just missed a couple greens, and my short game was absolutely horrendous, so I am definitely going to just work on that a little bit today.   
Just definitely wasn't consistent out there, but I am proud of myself.   You know, I lost a couple strokes early and I definitely made four birdies almost in a row.   Just got unlucky on 11.   Just one of those days that the fine line between shooting 3‑under and shooting par.  
But everything feels pretty solid.   Just need to work a little bit on my speed, little bit here and there, and hopefully finish strong tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   And yet you are still in the ball game.   You have a chance to win for the third time and possibly win that $1 million bonus.   Game plan for tomorrow?  
MICHELLE WIE:   Today I felt like it could have gotten away from me, but I'm proud of myself for staying in there.   I still have a chance for tomorrow.   I'm not out of it, like you said.   You know, that's all I can ask for.   I'm excited for the opportunity tomorrow, and we'll see what happens.  
I'm just going to play as hard as I can and see what I can do.  
   
 Q.   Still a really solid performance.   
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, you know, I wish I shot under par today, but it was a very up and down day.   Felt like I let a couple go, couple easy chip shots here and there.   
But I let a couple go in the beginning and then I made a couple birdies.   I was under par and I got an unlucky break on 11.  
But, you know, overall it was a tough day out there, and I still am not too far away, which I am really glad about.   I have an opportunity tomorrow, so I'm just going to see what I can do.   
   
 Q.   Yeah, you're hanging in there for the Race to CME Globe.   You feel like there are a lot of birdies out there for you?   
MICHELLE WIE:   It was tough out there today, but there are some definitely birdieable holes out there, and I think tomorrow, going to try to birdie the birdieable hole and par the hard ones and see what I can do.  
   
 Q.   Are nervous heading into tomorrow thinking about it?  
MICHELLE WIE:   I think I will be.   I was a little bit nervous today as well.   There is a lot on the line, but you kind of just have to play golf.   You know, there is a lot going on outside, but there is really nothing you can do.  
If you make birdies, it'll take care of the rest.   
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT