THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2014
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Good afternoon, everyone.   We would like to welcome in the inaugural Rolex Annika Award winner, Michelle Wie. 
I know you were really disappointed when you weren't able to play this week and the injury sidelined you for a couple majors now, but to be able to walk away with this award and know that you performed the best at the majors this season, what does this mean to you? 
MICHELLE WIE:   It's pretty crazy.   It was an interesting week.   I came here and had to miss Wegmen's.   I really wanted to come here and play well this week because I thought I really needed that to win.
Just really feel like very honored just to be standing up there.   I entered this week just feeling so grateful that I even had a chance.   I really am very surprised too, but very happy.
THE MODERATOR:   To have your name now associated sa the first winner of this award and to be associated with Annika, who did have such major excellence, is there something extra special about that? 
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, for sure.   It's awesome just to be a part of history to win the first inaugural Rolex Annika Major Award.
I remember hearing that we were going to have this award last year, and I kind of set that goal for this year.   That was one of the biggest goals that I had this year.   I really wanted to win it.   I tried really hard at all the majors.   Unfortunately only played couple, but I worked really hard to get this award. 
I am extremely proud of myself.
THE MODERATOR:   Maybe only got to play in three, but a win, a runner‑up finish; those are pretty impressive.   Considering the years that you were searching for that major victory, how much do you enjoy that moment every time you step on the tee and they announce you as a major champion? 
MICHELLE WIE:   It will never get old.   Never gets old.   Also seems a little bit surreal, too.   When you want something so much, even with this Rolex Annika Major Award, it's just when you want something so bad and it actually happens, it's a very surreal moment. 
THE MODERATOR:   How is the finger feeling, and do you have any plans to have it looked at when you get back to the States? 
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, I can't really say how it's feeling or whatnot just because I'm not really sure what it is.   Definitely going to get an MRI when I get back to the States and kind of just see where I'm at and make my decision going from there.
I am planning to play in China, but obviously if the MRI shows otherwise I will have to take more weeks off.   I'm hoping for the best and trying not to think about it until I kind of see it. 

Q.   Two questions:   Thrilling finish today.   Did you watch the end of that, and what would you like to say to that little 19‑year old girl? 
MICHELLE WIE:   It's amazing.   I think this is her first major she ever played in.
THE MODERATOR:   Uh‑huh.
MICHELLE WIE:   So she's 1‑1.   Pretty good.   It's pretty incredible the putt she made on 18.   That takes guts really, guts and talent to make that kind of putt.
It's pretty amazing at 19 that she did that.   I played against her at Lotte (?) This year played and played with her a couple times before that, too.   She's a solid player.   She's solid from tee to green.
I think it'll be really nice to see her out on tour next year. 
MODERATOR:   Michelle, you stuck around this week for this ceremony knowing that you had the opportunity at this award, which was very gracious of you. 
What have you been doing to keep busy until today when you got to hold that beautiful trophy? 
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, it's kind of a blessing in disguise.   I've been coming to Evian for so long and never got to see any of the parts.   Went it Mont Blanc yesterday or the day before; Amazing.   Went to the ice caves; unbelievable.   So it kind of cool just to be able to see everything.
I wish I was playing, but at the same time, I really felt like I got to experience some really cool things over this weekend.

Q.   Question about Kim.   Do you think now age is perhaps less of an issue for players coming through? 
MICHELLE WIE:   I guess it seems that way just because there are so many young players out there.   It's all really personal.   Everyone has their own path and acceleration rate.   You can't put a blanket for everyone and say that now 19 winning a major is normal.   It's not normal.   It's pretty incredible what she did.   It's pretty incredible what Morgan did wining at 18; Lexi winning this year at her age; Lydia playing as well as she did. 
I think everyone has their own acceleration rate.   It's pretty incredible. 
THE MODERATOR:   Yesterday we were talking about the U.S.   Women's Open trophy and how it has a pretty special place where you can look at it all the time.   Is this award going to go pretty close to that other trophy in your house? 
MICHELLE WIE:   Oh, for sure.   Definitely. 
THE MODERATOR:   And I am sure with those rubies it'll stand out.   Congratulations. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT