RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 11, 2014
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Obviously disappointing, can you just tell us what you feel right now?
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, I'm extremely disappointed how I played.   But you know, there's nothing I can do about it.   Just think about what I did wrong here and how I can improve.   I think that it's a good week for me to look at what I did. 
It's just one of those weeks where I just got off on the wrong foot and never felt comfortable.

Q.   What part of your game do you think you struggled with the most? 
MICHELLE WIE:   Just tempo felt off this week.   I kind of felt a little bit uncomfortable and I got into mind‑set of trying to par instead of trying to make birdies out there.   Just need to work on my tee shots a little bit more and just kind of get back into the swing of things.

Q.   What's the most frustrating part of this week for you after being in such good form coming in? 
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, it's just the fact that I won't be able to play this weekend.   I love this golf course.   I love playing links golf.   It's just really sad that my week got cut short.   I just want to go out there and play and try to get better.   So maybe I'll just play a couple other places this weekend.   But yeah, just need to get better. 

Q.   Pretty shocked having watched you this season, I didn't expect that from you over the first two days.   Can you put your finger on why it sort of went wrong? 
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, it was one of those weeks where I started off on the wrong foot, didn't feel quite comfortable.   But stuff happens like that.   Golf is hard.   Even though I played well all year, I still feel good about my game and doesn't change how I look at my game.   But I think it's kind of a good kick in the butt just to know what I need to improve. 
There's obviously things I need to improve and I need to get better at, and I'm just going to look back at the last two days and see what I can get better at.   It's obviously very disappointing but at the same time I think I'm kind of looking at the positives here and I think I can learn a lot from the last two days.

Q.   What do you need to improve?
MICHELLE WIE:   I think the tee shots a little bit, get a little better.   My tempo got off this week and just find it again.   Nothing was too off this week.   It was just nothing was quite right. 

Q.   You talked about being conservative off the tee, trying to avoid those bunkers.   In hindsight would you change the strategy? 
MICHELLE WIE:   In hindsight maybe.   But I feel like when things go poorly, you can look back, and oh, I should have done this, I should have done that; I would be here all day thinking about that.   I just didn't hit the shots I needed to and I need to work on that.

Q.   Did the course setup fair?   Is this a good test? 
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, Birkdale is great.   I'm just disappointed I won't be able to play it the next two days.   I just want to keep playing this golf course and figure it out.   It's unfortunate I didn't quite figure it out.

Q.   Do you stick around or head back to the States because you're playing in Toledo next week. 
MICHELLE WIE:   I'm actually not too sure.   I haven't really thought about it yet. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT