U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 20, 2014
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Great round of golf.  What away to finish.  Do you feel pretty good about the day?MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I can't complain.  End of the day yesterday I was thinking if i just did this again, that would be nice.  But always finishing with two birdies is always great. It's a grind out there.  It's not easy.  Really grateful for the par putts that I made and some of the birdie putts that I made.  I can't complain, I'll take it.
Q. Mindset going into the weekend and who knows what will happen but right now you're in the lead.MICHELLE WIE: You never really know at U.S. Opens.  I'm just going to go out there and have fun.  I'm really grateful for the opportunity that I have.  Being in contention, having the clubhouse lead for now, I'm just really excited for the weekend.  I'm really excited that I have chance and I'm going to have a lot of fun this weekend.
Q. How badly do you want it?  I know it's been a long time coming.MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, it's definitely one of the Majors that I really want to win.  I think the U.S. Open as an American is one of the most important tournaments.  But at the same time it's -- Sunday is a very, very long time, far away.  Just take it shot by shot.  You really can't think about Sunday, 18th hole, now.  You have 36 holes to play. So I'm just going to go out there and just try and do what I did the last two days and just focus on every shot and try not to think too much about the past or the future, just really try to stay in the present.
Q. Your composure, talk about were you able to go out there and you talk about it being a grind but were you able to have some fun?MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, Pinehurst is awesome.  Just playing here, playing, seeing all the history and the golf course is great.  I love the way the USGA set it up.  It's a great golf course.  I feel like we're making history this year playing at Pinehurst, same stage as the men.  I just was very excited watching the men play on Sunday and just to kind of see what they hit and kind of try to do the same things, it's a lot of fun.  It's great.
Q. Is the course any different today than yesterday?MICHELLE WIE: It was pretty similar to yesterday.  I felt like a lot of tees were up forward.  There's some hard pins, some easy pins.  Yeah, it was playing pretty similar to yesterday.
Q. What will you do the rest of the day and tonight?MICHELLE WIE: Pretty early start for me, so I'm probably going to work out a little bit, see the physio and just chill out, have some dinner, get to bed by 8 o'clock, probably.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT