U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2014
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Nice way to finish.MICHELLE WIE: Thank you.
Q. How do you feel about the round?MICHELLE WIE: You know, I'll take it, any round under par, I'll take it.  It was a grind out there today.  It will probably be a grind the next three days, but I'll take it.
Q. How much tougher did the course get?MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I mean I definitely had a lot more -- it's easier to hit it closer onto the greens with wedges than with 6-irons.  I think that it was pretty forward today.  I think it might be forward tomorrow, as well, too. But I just didn't quite take advantage of the par-5s when they were up so far ahead.  But definitely had a lot more wedges than I expected today.
Q. What was the key shot, do you think?  There were a couple of moments that that round could have maybe started to get away from you and you made key putts.MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, you know, it's kind of what the U.S. Open is.  I was playing great on the front nine, just wasn't -- thunder comes, which is -- that's North Carolina, too -- but, yeah, I felt like it was a grind out there. It's a tough golf course.  You just need to go out there and try to make pars and birdies.  I felt I played well.  Even the bogeys I made, sometimes stuff like that happens.  I just didn't hit a great chip shot on the par-5 and it rolled all the way back to the bunker.  Actually made a pretty good bunker shot.  Stuff like that will happen.  I have to have the mentality that stuff like that is going to happen, I just have to think positively that happens.  But it was fun today.
Q. Do you consider yourself a grinder?MICHELLE WIE: I think so.  I think I definitely work hard out there, and that putt that I made on 17 felt really great and gave me good momentum going into 18. But, yeah, that's what U.S. Open is all about.  You just have to get yourself in those par positions, make those putts, and see what happens.
Q. Is there any situation where having the yardage book of Keegan or Rickie came into play or helped you out?MICHELLE WIE: Oh, yeah, they were big helps.  They put some really good notes in for me.  I did a lot of homework.  I think it's the most homework I've ever done on a golf course.  Just kind of color coordinated everything.  Just took the notes from both of the books. It really helped just because, obviously, they played last week in similar conditions.  And they're, obviously, great players.  I definitely learned a lot from looking at those yardage books just seeing what they do.  And I definitely learned a thing or two.
Q. What was a particular instance today in your round?MICHELLE WIE: Just for everything, every shot, just knowing where to miss it, where not to miss it, just stuff like that, just preparation.
Q. Does this course need water?MICHELLE WIE: No, I don't think so.  I mean, I think that the middle of the fairways are very great.  I think that it's brown, for sure.  But I think that's exactly how the USGA wants to play it. It definitely makes it harder to hold the greens.  But the greens, they were -- they're perfect.  They're rolling perfect, they're green.  There's really no spots on the greens that are brown.  It's just the fairway.  But I think it looks really cool like that.
Q. (Inaudible.)MICHELLE WIE: Not really.  It felt pretty similar the whole day.  It was definitely windier in the beginning, which made it tough.  I think the wind kind of calmed down in the afternoon which made it a lot easier.
Q. Talk about hitting out of those native areas on 8, and a couple of holes.MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, you can definitely get lucky out of those.  It just depends on what lie you have.  But, yeah, it's just -- I like it more than rough, I think.
Q. You've got a pretty good short game.  How is that helping this week?MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I mean it's a good short game golf course, just because you're going to miss greens.  You are going to miss it on the short side.  You've got to get creative with your shots.  It's just -- I didn't do so well on the bunker shots today, hopefully tomorrow it will be a little bit better.  Yeah, creativity really helps here.  You have to not be afraid to use your putter, as well, too, which I should have done on one hole thinking back on it.
Q. Are you as ready to win a Major championship as you've ever been?MICHELLE WIE: I don't want to think about that.  It's a long road until Sunday.  I've had a lot of fun today, it's great being in contention.  I'm going to do my best tomorrow and see what happens.  If I keep doing what I'm doing now, I'll be close, and hopefully I'll be there Sunday having an opportunity, and that's really all I can ask for.
Q. What did you hit in there on 5 and what was the thought process after that?MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I mean, I just tried to hit a regular chip shot and I shouldn't have.  I had done the same thing on the practice round and it worked out great.  I think it was a little bit softer in the practice round, a little bit more grass.  It definitely browned out a little bit more.  I just thinned it a little bit where I shouldn't have thinned it and it went into the bunker.  It was fun.
Q. What was more satisfying, the big save putt on 17 or the birdie putt on 18?MICHELLE WIE: Definitely the putt on 17.  I definitely -- I went there, I was kind of angry that I hit my bunker shot there.  And I really wanted to make the putt.  And it's fun when you make putts that you really want to make.
Q. What was the line on that putt?MICHELLE WIE: Left-to-right, up and over.
Q. Everybody has sort of been waiting to see how the LPGA players would do on this course.  Do you think you guys put on a pretty good show?MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I think we put on a great show.  There are a couple of red numbers out there.  There are a lot of people hovering around even par.  But I think it's great.  I think it's -- I love this idea.  I love that we are playing on the same stage as the men.  I think it's really interesting.  It makes it very exciting.  It's new and exciting.  I think it's great for our Tour.  I'm personally so excited to just be here at Pinehurst.  I always wanted to play here.  And the fact that I'm playing at Pinehurst in the U.S. Open just makes it extra special.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT