NORTH TEXAS LPGA SHOOTOUT PRESENTED BY JTBC
April 29, 2014
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   I would like to welcome in our Rolex Rankings No. 13, Michelle Wie, into the interview room.   Michelle, thank you for coming in.   Busy past couple of weeks for you.   Freshly off your win two weeks ago.   You played in San Francisco last week.   It's been a whirlwind of a time.   I was there with you in Hawaii and it was quite an experience for somebody to even see, but take us through the past two weeks, how that's been for you celebrating and coming off that win? 
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah.   It's been great.   And I think obviously winning in my hometown definitely is a dream come true for me.   Winning is great, but winning in your hometown with all your family and your friends there, it had to be one of the most wonderful moments of my life.
And then going back to the bay area.   I haven't been back since I graduated.   It was amazing seeing all my friends.   Definitely a bit tired last week, but I'm real excited for this week.
THE MODERATOR:   How important was it for you?   Is it I know there was a lot of emotions in Hawaii coming off that win and going back to San Francisco.   I know you did a Stanford tour.   You saw the Stanford team doing a lot of things.   How important was it for you to bounce off that win and come back and get another Top 10.   How focused were you on following up that win with a really good week? 
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, I think it was important for my psyche and my confidence.   I definitely am feeling very confident after the last two weeks. 
You know, it's a tough golf course.   I think I was under the weather a little bit with a cold, so I was kind of struggling a little bit, just holding myself together.   But I felt good on the last day.   I felt great.   So it was nice to be in the warm weather, I have to say. 
THE MODERATOR:   Everyone said they were looking forward to coming here and it being warm.   Tied for 56th last year, obviously looking to improve a little bit.   What were the problem areas coming into this course last year where you improved? 
MICHELLE WIE:   I think we changed a couple of game plans, positions off the tee boxes, aim wise.   I think last year I just underestimated the slopiness of the fairways.   I think we would just try to land it in certain spots and hit it to the right places. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Michelle? 

Q.   Michelle, not only the win this year, but you've had a pretty good year at all of the events.   I don't think you've finished lower than 16.   Just talk about what's going well for you, how good it feels to kind of get your year started like this?
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah.   It feels great.   The No. 1 thing that David and I have been working on in the off season, the main goal this year is consistency.   I just want to keep improving a little bit every week and just trying to be more consistent with my game, hit more fairways, hit more greens, make more putts.   Just overall just keep getting better. 

Q.   With so many young players coming up, can you just talk about how that kind of creates parity out here and maybe some advice you can give the younger players on coming up and what challenges they face?
MICHELLE WIE:   It's great.   It's great seeing all the young players out there.   I look at them and I feel very happy just because they're going to be the future of our tour.   They are stars right now, but obviously they're going to be here after we leave, and it's just great.   I think there's a lot of really great young players, but at the same time, you know, they're also really great people as well, too.   You know, just every single one of them, I feel like it's nice to see them. 
And you know, I don't really have that much advice for them.   I think they're doing great, they have great heads on their shoulders, and I guess all I have to say is don't forget it's still a game and you just gotta go out there and have fun. 

Q.   I saw a tweet this past week ask ho's writing the scripts for the LPGA.   I don't think anybody could do any better.   Paula's putt in Singapore broke her win drought, you in Hawaii, Lexi, Lydia last week.   What does that mean to you to be part of the resurgence of the LPGA and everyone saying watch the LPGA, watch the LPGA, these girls are killing it?   What does that mean to you to be part of this excitement, and all the headlines weekly, not only nationally but globally as well?
MICHELLE WIE:   I think it's great.   I mean we've come so far.   We have.   I mean I feel like this has been a great community effort between everyone, the staff and the players.   You know, there's a lot of good personalities out there and a lot of great players, and it was really awesome to see Paula make that putt.   You know, I think it's really great for the tour that Lexi won and great that Lydia won last week.   There's just a lot of great story lines out there, and I'm just so happy that the LPGA is finally getting the attention that it deserves.
THE MODERATOR:   I know you were home two weeks ago, you were in your second home last week.   Saw you tweet out some barbecue pictures.   I keep asking you about the food every week.   That's something you always talk about, barbecue choices.   Do you have a special place here, special spot you've been to or favorite so far?   Any recommendations given to you? 
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah.   I've had a couple recommendations given to me.   I think we're doing ribs tonight.   But there's just so many here.   You just can't go wrong.   I mean I'm just so excited about the food.   I texted Gerina Pillar about some good Tex‑Mex places here.   So this week it's definitely going to be an eating week for sure.   Not like any other week. 
THE MODERATOR:   My last question, four American winners this year.   All three other than you were teammates of the Solheim Cup.   What does that say, do you think, for the American resurgence?   I know with Stacy getting up to No. 1 last year and being up there and Lexi playing well, what do you think it has to say for women's American golf? 
MICHELLE WIE:   I think it's great.   There are so many big American names out there, you know, Jessica Korda, Stacy Lewis, Lexi Thompson.   Paula Creamer, there's so many good American players out there, and I think it's so much fun.   It's fun to see American women do well, it's fun to see my teammates play well.   You know, I think it does a lot of good things for the tour.   We are a global tour, but it's nice to have American girls on American soil.
THE MODERATOR:   Any other questions? 

Q.   I'm excited about seeing you in person.   I remember watching you, I guess it was ten years ago when you played with Ernie Els. 
MICHELLE WIE:   Yes.

Q.   I just want to know your feelings about, you know, you seem to have a sense of the history of the LPGA, playing in Texas, you know.   There wasn't an LPGA event here for many years and last year was the first year.   Do you have any special feelings about playing in Texas?
MICHELLE WIE:   I know a lot of the girls from Texas are really excited, because they really look forward toit.   I was talking to Angela Stanford in Hawaii and Gerina and everyone, and they're so excited to come back home and they're so proud to be able to show Texas off to everyone, and we're really excited to be back here as well, and it's just great to see that the LPGA is going back to a city that we have a good backing.   Brought LPGA to the bay area, which we are really glad.   Hopefully we can go to a lot more cities in the future. 

Q.   Similar question, for a player, what do you look for in a tour event?   What makes it a success?
MICHELLE WIE:   I mean I would say the food.   (Laughs).   But you know, I think it's just‑‑ every tournament has been top notch, I think.   The golf courses have been in really great shape.   We go to really great golf courses, like last week.   This week another good golf course.
For me I think it's just condition the golf course is in, and you know, it's just great to see the fan support, and hopefully this week the crowds will be really big. 
But yeah, I think the golf course is definitely the top thing for me, and I feel like every week it's just been great. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT