SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
May 30, 2014
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   All right.   We'd like to welcome Michelle Wie into the interview room here at the ShopRite LPGA Classic.   Solid way to open up, 67.   Better than your opening round last year.   You had a solid round last year, 68.   Talk about the importance of opening up strong here especially in a three‑day event.   
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, for sure.   You kind of play and you kind of forget it's a three‑day event.   You forget it's a Friday, not a Thursday, but you just go out there, I just went out there and tried to take advantage of shorter holes.   Definitely was playing a lot easier than it was yesterday in the pro am for sure, but yeah.  
THE MODERATOR:   Talk about your game plan today.   Did you have anything specific you guys wanted to achieve, anything you wanted to stick to?   
MICHELLE WIE:   Going into this golf course, I always want to take advantage of the par‑5s on the front nine, but didn't quite do that today.   Just keeping it in the right places, not getting too greedy and just kind of staying below the hole and just the normal stuff really.  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Michelle.  
   
 Q.   Michelle, could you talk about the importance of that last putt, saving par there, kind of maintaining your momentum going into overnight?  
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, you know, I think that it was unfortunate I hit in the heather, and I made a start play of taking an unplayable instead of trying to hack it out.   
But yeah, I missed a lot of putts out there today, so it was good to make that one on the last hole.  
   
 Q.   Michelle, the fact that you didn't take advantage of some of the par‑5s like you said you wanted to and you still scored well, does that give you encouragement for tomorrow and Sunday?  
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, you know, I think that I did well on the par‑4s and the par‑3s today and tomorrow I just gotta keep doing the same and just try to take advantage of the par‑5s and just keep doing what I'm doing.  
   
 Q.   Michelle, you said it wasn't a real great day putting.   Was there something wrong?  
MICHELLE WIE:   I mean I just gave myself a lot of chances and read them right, just misjudged the speed on a couple of them.   But yeah, it's not like I miss‑hit a lot of putts.   I just gave myself a lot more opportunities and I just missed a couple, but it was good on the last hole that I just confidently just made it and finally got the speed and the direction right.  
   
 Q.   Well, 67 obviously the ball striking must have been pretty good, huh?  
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, it was okay.   
   
 Q.   Just okay?  
MICHELLE WIE:   (Laughs).   
THE MODERATOR:   So modest.   Any other questions?   All right.   Great job so far.   Good luck the rest of the way.   
MICHELLE WIE:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT