LPGA LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY J GOLF
April 18, 2014
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   My pleasure to welcome Michelle Wie into the interview room.   2‑under today, just talk about overall the round today, how you felt coming into the final stretch.   Obviously not the last hole you wanted to finish on but get us through the day.
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, left a couple of shots out there today, but I have one more day and hopefully tomorrow I'll make a lot of birdies and catch up to her.   It's going to be fun tomorrow.

Q.   Coming into the final round, does it change your game plan when you're going to be coming from behind?   I know sometimes that helps people.   You are not going to be off the radar, let's just be honest.   Do you think it's less pressure coming from behind? 
MICHELLE WIE:   I mean, ideally going into tomorrow I wouldn't want to be this far behind.   I think it'll make it more interesting tomorrow.   Just go out there and try to make some birdies early on and see what I can do.

Q.   Did you feel like you were putting yourself in position to potentially cash in on several birdies there?
MICHELLE WIE:   Oh, yeah, a lot of birdie opportunities today.   It was one of the head scratching days where I'd hit putts.   I'd hit it the perfect speed, right where I want to and then it go completely off the direction.   So I had some putts, hit some bombs, hit some wind, just one of days where ‑‑ it was really my day to do it, just stay patient out there today. 
Unfortunately I made a bogey on the last hole.   It's just one of those days where hit good shots and need to do the same thing tomorrow and be patient. 
Once the flood gates open, they'll hopefully.

Q.   You are no stranger to large galleries, but I think you had a really good, large supportive one today.   Can you comment on that a little bit? 
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, it's great.   Crowds were bigger today than they were yesterday.   Hopefully they'll be bigger tomorrow.   I love the support from the people.   I love‑‑ a lot of my friends came out today, family and friends came out.   It was nice seeing them.   Hopefully a lot will come out tomorrow.   It was great.   It was a lot of fun. 

Q.   Game plan for tomorrow?   Keys to the round?   Obviously you said putts weren't dropping, so work around the greens? 
MICHELLE WIE:   I just need to stay patient.   The speeds today were good.   Keep doing the same thing I'm doing, keep giving myself chances and really cash in on them. 

Q.   Have you done the visualization of you winning in Hawaii?   Can you think of what this place would be like if you were to end up on top? 
MICHELLE WIE:   It would be a lot of fun.   It would be awesome.   I'm just not going to think too far away head.   I have a lot of work ahead of me for tomorrow.   Just see what I can do.   I'm going to play my hardest and just play my heart out tomorrow and see what I can do.

Q.   I think you went to the putting green right after your round.   Did you feel like you were able to shake off any frustration you might have had or get a betting feeling ending the day like that?
MICHELLE WIE:   I think the moment that I shook off my frustration was right when I pounded the driver.   That always makes me feel better. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT