LPGA LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY J GOLF
April 16, 2014
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Very solid day for you.   Just take us through the day.   Obviously a windy, windy day.   Talk about conditions as well. 
MICHELLE WIE:   It was quite windy out there today.   Just started off with bogey, but just kind of hung in there.   I just was patient all day today.   It felt good.

Q.   Round of 70 and it seems like you probably could have done better than that.   Do you feel good, if the conditions start to settle down a little bit, about your chances tomorrow? 
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, I just had (indiscernible) by to 2‑under par today.   Se Ri is kind of killing it with 5‑under out there. 
It's not easy, but I'll take it.   I positioned myself quite well today.   Three more days to go, so I'll see what I can do. 

Q.   Solid round seems like the theme you've had this season.   How much fun is this to come back home and start off the tournament on such a good note?
MICHELLE WIE:   It's awesome.   I'm having a blast out here.   It's great to see a lot of friends out there today.   Hopefully more will show up in the next three days.   I like I said, I think I'm in a good position and see what I can do in the next three days. 

Q.   Is it nice to see Se Ri playing so well considering that she is a pioneer for a lot of players out there?
MICHELLE WIE:   For sure.   I looked up to her growing up.   She was definitely the role model.   I just wanted to be like her.   She was so cook and she still is very cool.   She is 5‑under today, and it was not easy today out there at all.

Q.   (Inaudible?)
MICHELLE WIE:   I mean, you expect the trade winds, but at certain points you just needed stuff in your pockets, I felt like I was going to blow away. 
It was pretty strong out there.   There were some holes where the balls were moving a lot bit, not moving but wiggling.   It was tough.

Q.   Talk about the shot on 16.   Near hole in one.   How bad did you want that? 
MICHELLE WIE:   Well, you know, my caddie and I, we decided the next time I make a hole‑in‑one, we're going to give like an epic chest pump.   We're getting all ready, we're both getting ready.   I was like, wait a second, how did that not go in?   I got a little bit confused for a bit, but I'll take it on that hole.

Q.   Talk about the way you bounced back from that bogey on par‑5, to be able to come back and go birdie‑birdie the way you did, seems like that was a big part of the round?
MICHELLE WIE:   Just a bad tee shot on that hole, just stupid hitting it in the water.   That hole is going to be playing really hard, but just made some putts coming in which felt good.

Q.   You don't do any change in game plan, I know.   Kraft you were hitting kind of line drive shots?   Does that change here? 
MICHELLE WIE:   Definitely hitting a lot of low shots today.

Q.   Curious, you have been playing such consistent golf that might work if the wind kind of sticks in the mix.   Would you welcome that a little bit or would you like to see it die down a little bit?
MICHELLE WIE:   I am going to take whatever comes.   I think that I definitely like a challenge, definitely like if the wind blows.   If it dies down, it would be fun to make more birdies and stuff like that.   I'm not going to expect anything, just take whatever comes at me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT