KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 6, 2014
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You played well, but she was just too much today?
MICHELLE WIE:   She played amazing today.   She played probably the best I've ever seen her play.   She hit the ball so well.   She made everything.   It was just hard to catch up to her all day today, but I'm really happy for her.   I'm really proud of her.   She really played well today, and I thought I played okay, too.   I think it just got to a point where I just tried to force it.   I think I needed to really come back with a lot of birdies, and I think it got to a point where I just tried too hard. 
But I'm just proud of myself for how the week went, and I think she did amazing today.   That's really what happened. 

Q.   In hindsight today would you have hit more drivers now that you can look back on it?
MICHELLE WIE:   You know, I think I stuck with my game plan, and I think it was the right play.   Who knows.   In hindsight you would do something here or do something there, make a putt there.   That's the way golf is.   I just couldn't get anything going today.   I gave myself a lot of chances, but just couldn't get the speed right today, so I just kind of struggled with that all day.

Q.   You had that one opportunity I believe it was at 14 where you had a six‑footer, I believe, for birdie.   Was that particularly disappointing that that came up short?
MICHELLE WIE:   Well, I thought that putt was like really quick.   I just remembered that putt from last year was really quick.   After I hit it‑‑ yeah, what can you do.   I just hit it short. 

Q.   What will you take away from this week? 
MICHELLE WIE:   You know, it was a lot of fun playing in contention, being in the final group.   It was nice to be in the final group at Kraft again.   I think it's a sign.   I think I'm getting close.   I think I can get a lot of confidence from this week.   I think I'm improving and improving, and I think getting second at a major, I think it means that I'm close, and I'm really proud of myself, and I'm really excited for the upcoming events.   There's four more majors left this year, and I'm just really proud of myself, and I just want to keep improving a little bit every day. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT