HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 22, 2014
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Michelle Wie into the interview room.   Michelle, great 69 in the third round here at the Honda LPGA Thailand.   Right in the mix.   Three shots off the lead.   Take us through the day today. 
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, I had a really fun day today.   Playing with Stacy and Sandra, really fun group.   It was good.   Couple hard pins; couple easy pins.
Didn't really take advantage of the par‑5s like I wanted to, but I can't really complain about it.
Hopefully tomorrow I'll just have a lot more birdies.

Q.   Probably final group tomorrow.   How good does it feel to be in the mix, that all the hard work paid off and you're going into Sunday with a good chance of winning? 
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, yeah, it's fun being in contention, I think.   Being in the final group on Sunday, you kind of work hard Thursday, Friday, Saturday to get yourself in that position. 
So I'm just going to go out there and have fun and try to take the most advantage of it.

Q.   It's a loaded leaderboard right now.   You took the outright lead after 10 holes.   Watching the leaderboard at all?   Is that giving you an extra push to get things going? 
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, I took the lead, I saw that.   But, yeah, I need to make a couple more birdies.   There were a couple birdie holes coming in.   I didn't really take advantage of the drivable par‑4 today.
But birdies are out there.   Just got to be consist of the, not too aggressive on some holes, and got to make the putts tomorrow.

Q.   Last win came in 2o10.   How badly this off‑season did you readjust your goals or make any type of adjustment mentally to say, I really, really want to get that third win?   Two under your belt.   What do you think it's going to take to get No. 3?
MICHELLE WIE:   I think just not thinking about it.   I took a really nice mental vacation this off‑season.   Went home for five weeks and didn't take my clubs.   Just worked out a lot and was active.   Did a lot of active resist I guess my trainer called it.
I know I want it.   It's not a question to me how much I want it.   It's just a question when I go out there tomorrow it's another day.   Just going to go out there and try to take advantage of being in contention and make a lot of birdies and we'll see what happens. 
I really want that win, but I'm not going to put the added pressure on myself.

Q.   You have recommitted yourself to fitness. 
David Donatucci, talk about what your regimen has been like with him?
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, you know ‑ knock on wood ‑ I finally feel healthy.   I've been through a lot of injuries where I couldn't work out or hurt myself working out or whatever.   So I finally feels good to be healthy‑ knock wood.
But it's good.   I work out with him.   It's just fun. 

Q.   I heard he kicks your guy's butts essentially.   He's tough. 
MICHELLE WIE:   Six days a week. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Michelle?

Q.   Tomorrow do you have a number in mind?   What do you think it might take to come out on top?
MICHELLE WIE:   Like I said before, you really have to take advantage of the par‑5s here.   They're birdieable holes.   If I do that tomorrow, I think I'll be good.
Couple good par holes.   Just go out there, and my main goal is to take it shot by shot and not think too far ahead and have fun out there and make a lot of birdies. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT