HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 20, 2014
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Started off on 10.   Run me through the birdies. 
MICHELLE WIE:   I hit it in the fairway, 4 hybrid over the green, and got up‑and‑down.   Putt was about four feet. 
15, I hit two hybrid, left rough.   Then I hit a 52 to about nine feet. 

Q.   18? 
MICHELLE WIE:   Driver, laid up, and then I hit it to like one foot. 

Q.   That stretch, 18, 1, 2, momentum booster in the middle of the round?
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, for sure.

Q.   How much do streaks like that get you going?
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, I birdied all four of the par‑5s today, which definitely helps on this golf course.   It's just good.   After 18 I was hungry, so I went to the locker room and got some food from my bag, so I think that helped. 

Q.   Pad Thai in your pocket?
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, some curry in my pocket.

Q.   What did you have?
MICHELLE WIE:   Just had like these nuts, like these little nut crunch things.   I was thinking about them on the front nine.   I was really mad I didn't put them in my golf bag. 
So I ran up to the locker room and ran back down.   Pretty sure that had something to do with the birdie.

Q.   Bogey on 3.   What happened?
MICHELLE WIE:   Oh, boy.   I hit a great driver, I smashed it, and then I just decided to not follow through on my 52 and I flared it right and I didn't get up and down. 

Q.   What do you like most about course?   Kind of set up for big hitters.   You said you were using hybrids.   How many drivers did you use? 
MICHELLE WIE:   Almost all of them.   It's definitely one of those golf courses.   I don't get to use a lot of drivers during the year.   This is one of the few golf courses that I get to just hit driver all the time.   So it's fun. 

Q.   Being here in Thailand, you go everywhere.   Big Buddha.   Jamie says Green Curry Pad Thai, all day every day. 
MICHELLE WIE:   Oh, yeah.

Q.   What's the best thing so far?
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, think it's my fourth time here.   I love Thailand.   The people are so welcoming.   Thai food is definitely one of my favorite cuisines.   So I just get really excited.   I definitely try to get mango sticky rice and Panang curry every night.   It's just so good, especially if you like coconut milk.

Q.   Greens here rolling pretty purely. 
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, the conditions this year are the best I've ever seen them.   Fairways are great, greens are rolling great.   They're firm, quick.   Pretty great conditions this year. 

Q.   Who did you play with today?
MICHELLE WIE:   Jennifer Johnson and.
Na Yeon Choi. 

Q.   Visor story.   How did that get started? 
MICHELLE WIE:   Well, it kind of started a couple years ago.   I've always seen Grace Park wear these, and I'm starting to get worried about wrinkles.   So like two years ago I told Mikey, I want to wear the Grace Park visor.   We need to bring it back. 
They brought it back.   This is one of their main hats this year.   May be kind of a visor kind of year. 

Q.   Looking forward to next three rounds.   Things you want to improve?   Stay the same? 
MICHELLE WIE:   I think I need to keep taking advantage of the par‑5s.   That's really important on this golf course.   I think my wedges just need to be better.
I missed two greens with wedges today, which is stupid.   That needs to not happen.   Just need to play consistent, hit the fairways, be on the right side of the green.   They're rolling quickly, so you want to keep staying below the hole. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT