JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 20, 2014
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   All right.   66.   Very strong opening.   Talk about the round, the eagle on the front nine.   Can you give us the details on that?  
MICHELLE WIE:   For sure.   I just couldn't really get anything going the first couple of holes, and I think that eagle really kind of got me going.   
It was good.   I hit 3‑wood, 5‑iron over the green and then chipped in.   So that was a good chip‑in.  
   
 Q.   So you think that was the booster on the front nine that kind of got things going?  
MICHELLE WIE:   I think so.   I think it was also the 3‑putt on the next hole that kind of got me going as well.   That too.   (Laughs).  
   
 Q.   What about the round?   You had five birdies after that.   Any of them that stood out?   
MICHELLE WIE:   No.   I just, you know, nothing really.   I just hit a lot of wedges in today.   It was really firm.   Just a lot of wedges.  
   
 Q.   How was putting?   Everybody is saying the greens are quick.   
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, the greens are quick.   Just miss a lot of them.   Hopefully saving up for tomorrow and the weekend.   But yeah.  
   
 Q.   How was playing with Webb and Pettersen?  
MICHELLE WIE:   Oh, I was really excited coming in today playing with Suzann and Karrie, two of my favorite people, and I look up to both of them, and I just made a lot of birdies out there, so that was a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   What about, you say you're always so comfortable now.   You're feeling very comfortable with your game.   Anything this week coming in did you feel was going to be your strong point in particular?   You had a couple weeks off.   
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah.   Just recharged my batteries a little bit after Asia.   Just excited to be on the West Coast, or close to the west close.   
   
 Q.   Close enough.   
MICHELLE WIE:   Close enough.   West side of the country.   And it's just, you know, it's a fun golf course.   You know, it's good to see the founders, I think.   It's just great to see them.   Kind of puts things in perspective, like what they've been through to put us in this situation, so we're just thankful for them.   And I think it's a great week in general.   We get to celebrate the founders, so I got excited this week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT