PURE SILK-BAHAMAS LPGA CLASSIC
January 24, 2014
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MICHELLE WIE:   I think I was on hole 14 or something where the leaderboard is, and I saw scores were really low today, and I thought, okay, gotta giddy‑up.   That's not good enough.   
All of us played really well today in our group.   A lot of birdies in our group.   That I guess motivated me.   But it was just fun out there.  
   
 Q.   Is there something you worked on in the off‑season that you were pleased with how it went today?   
MICHELLE WIE:   Well, I just came off a really long vacation, so there wasn't really a lot to work on.   I think I just had a good rest this off‑season.   When I came back in January and I picked up my golf clubs, I was really excited to play.   I was so ready to get back into a rhythm.   It was good motivation playing this week because my first tournament was supposed to be in Thailand, and if I didn't play this week, then I would have just got into it slowly.   I kind of had a freak‑out session about two weeks ago, where I was like, oh, my God, I feel like I'm at a tournament.   I had a couple really good practice sessions, workout sessions, and I think it just kind of motivated me to do well.  
   
 Q.   Also playing in a wind like this, it has to feel good because your swing has to be really fine tuned for that, right?   If it's a little off it gets more exaggerated?  
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, for sure.   I mean, I guess I hit my ball pretty low, so it's not too bad.   But it's a great golf course.   I think it's fair, even with the wind.   It was fun.   
   
 Q.   What are your first impressions of the Bahamas?  
MICHELLE WIE:   Oh, I love it.   I absolutely love it here.   I can't believe I've never been before.   The color of the ocean is just unreal.   I tried to explain it to my friends and my family back home, and it's just‑‑ you have to see it for yourself.   I tried to take a picture of it, and it almost looks like a filter, but it's just so turquoise, it's amazing.  
   
 Q.   How were the dolphins the other day?  
MICHELLE WIE:   Dolphins were awesome.  
   
 Q.   Did you swim with them?  
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, it was really cool.   We swam with‑‑ we didn't swim with them, but we met the sea lions, as well.   They just had so much personality and they were so smart, and it looks like the trainers really treat them well.   It was fun.   
   
 Q.   When did you do that?  
MICHELLE WIE:   Tuesday.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT