U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 2, 2018
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How has it been with the stopping and starting and all that?
MICHELLE WIE: I just need to get on the right said of the wave for once, for sure.  It is what it is.  You know, it's unfortunate, looked like we were clear to go and all of a sudden things kept building up.
At this time of the year there's really nothing you can do.  I was glad that we did start an hour later, I have to say.  I woke up, checked my phone and went straight back to bed.
Q. What did you do during the rain delay?
MICHELLE WIE: Actually pretty relaxing rain delay.  I was in the physio trailer with Korda and really just the two of us.  We had a heat pack going, got some massages done, watched some TV, laid down.  Got a towel over us.  It was nice.
Q. How do you deal with the weather and your wrist, put ice on it?
MICHELLE WIE: It's really hot.  Nice to have ice on your body.
Q. How do you feel about your position going into the final 36?
MICHELLE WIE: I wish I made a couple more birdies today but, at the same time, you know, I grinded it out out there, I made a lot of par putts.
I'm really happy about the position I'm in.  Hopefully the next two days, give myself a couple more birdie chances and try to make something happen.
Q. You wanted to relax and not talk golf, what's some of your favorite songs right now that's calming for you?
MICHELLE WIE: I've been really on -- I'm going to say this bad name, all going to laugh, Rainbow Kitten Surprise, one song, Holy War.  The new song by Demi Lovato is good too, The Solo.  I've been listening to the Marilyn Manson CD.  I don't know where my head space is at.  Let's go with it.
Q. With the overnight rain, how much does that change it for you, the course?
MICHELLE WIE: It was definitely a little bit more wet out there this morning.  That rain last night was pretty crazy but, you know, again, pretty impressed with how they got the course ready for this morning and it will be -- hopefully the storms will hold off for today and the course can get dryer and dryer.
Q. How do you approach a day like today -- (inaudible)?
MICHELLE WIE: I think I have enough time to hopefully get a shower.  Gross right now.  Be nice to get a shower in, get some food in and play 18 more, hopefully.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT