WEGMANS LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 8, 2013
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MICHELLE WIE:   Didn't play as well today as I did yesterday and couple bounces here, couple bounces there, and missed putts a couple here and there it just adds up on this golf course.
I know I played well yesterday.   I just kind of stayed patient and just did the same thing, not tried too hard today.

Q.   You played really well last week and come in and play pretty well so far today.   Are you starting to feel something?   Do you feel as though the game is coming around?
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, you know, like I said last week, I put in a lot of work over the off season, and it's been feeling that way for a very long time, and I'm just being patient and just waiting for my opportunity to come and just enjoying myself, and just working hard at every step.

Q.   So does that become a bit of a validation maybe what today's round did to pick up where you left off last week?
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, especially on this golf course.   I've tried a lot of things off the tee on this golf course over the past couple of years, so shooting 68 today really gives me the confidence.
And you know, starting to understand this golf course a little bit more every year.

Q.   Has your strategy changed in how you played it?
MICHELLE WIE:   You know, I just try not to be greedy on this golf course.   You know, I only hit driver twice today, and I hit a couple more drivers yesterday, which cost ‑‑ all my strokes really cost me for my drivers yesterday.   And on this golf course, even if you have 5‑iron, 6‑iron in, you just have to be in the fairway.

Q.   What kind of clubs are you hitting off tees then, 3‑woods?
MICHELLE WIE:   3‑woods, 2‑hybrids, 4‑hybrids.

Q.   Michelle, it's a little early, but are you thinking about the Solheim Cup as you enter this sort of long stretch where we've got a lot of points on the line?
MICHELLE WIE:   Oh, I've been thinking about the Solheim since the beginning of the season.   You know, it's definitely one of the most important things for me to make the team, and every opportunity is the double points, so it means a lot more to me.
You know, I've been, working to get points all year and hopefully this week I can get some points this week.

Q.   How often do you check the rankings?
MICHELLE WIE:   You know, I've never checked it.   I don't like checking things.   I just know that if I don't play well, I'm not getting the points.   If I play well, I'm getting points.   So there's no need to check.   I think I just need to play well.

Q.   What is it like for you, because I know you've been a couple times, playing with someone who looks up to you so much, you've played with Lydia so much.   What's that like?
MICHELLE WIE:   You know, it's nice.   She's such a nice girl, and today I was walking in front of her and she was talking to my caddy, and she was like, "yeah, I'm getting old."   And I was like, "what?"   (Laughs).   I looked back at her.
But no, I've played with her a couple of times and she's so talented and she's a fun person to play with, so got lucky I got to play with her this week.

Q.   How much did you have to adjust your game today given the conditions or how much maybe did you pick up yesterday going into today?
MICHELLE WIE:   You know, like I said, I played well yesterday.   You know, just, you know, if you're in the wrong position in the rough or you get a bad lie in the rough it's very easy to make bogey here.   So just gotta be patient and just not be greedy.

Q.   It seems like there's no give to this course. 
MICHELLE WIE:   No.   You have to earn everything you get.

Q.   Was there a highlight to today's round?   What stood out?
MICHELLE WIE:   Highlights, I mean any of the birdies really are highlights, you know.   Just ‑‑ any birdie you can get on this golf course feels good.

Q.   And about not hitting the driver very much, is that difficult for you?   Do you like hitting your driver?   Do you want to hit it?   Do you have to tell yourself no?
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, for sure.   I love hitting my driver.   I feel like ‑‑ you know, like I said, I've tried a lot of different things on this golf course over the past couple of years, and you know, on some conditions if you're feeling great and some holes it does work, but sometimes it will nip you in the butt if you get a little bit greedy here.   So just gotta just step back and even if you have five ‑‑ I had a lot of 5‑irons, 6‑irons today.

Q.   How do you prepare for 36 holes on Sunday at a major?
MICHELLE WIE:   Go to bed really early, have a really big dinner, and yeah, not do too much.   Get off your feet.

Q.   Are you happy to be done at like 12:30?
MICHELLE WIE:   I actually am.   I actually am very grateful that I have the rest of the afternoon just to do nothing.

Q.   And I asked Cristie about this.   What did you think about ‑‑ she tweeted a picture of now I'm finally as big asthma shell, those big pictures of you on the side of those Hampton Jitney buses.   Have you seen those?
MICHELLE WIE:   I saw a couple of pictures.   Yeah, they're pretty cool. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT