THE SOLHEIM CUP
August 16, 2013
Cristie Kerr
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We would like to welcome Cristie Kerr and Michelle Wie into the interview room.   Congratulations ladies, a nice victory in your afternoon match.   First off, take me through the match a little bit.   Cristie, you had gone out in the morning, had a little bit of a tough loss and then to come out this afternoon and you guys seemed to get some momentum early on.   
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, we did.   We ended up birdieing the first hole and they ended up parring it, got the momentum right from the start.   
Ended up having kind of a bad hole on 3.   Got it right back then.   Birdieing the par‑3, whatever hole that was.   6, I guess.   
They squared it at the turn and I made a huge putt on 10.   
Michelle's barely missed some putts right and left out there, and they were just not dropping for her, but she was putting beautifully.   
And then we were able to hang tough, halving holes with birdies and finally, Michelle chipped in on 13 and we kind of hung in there.   
THE MODERATOR:   Michelle, take me through that chip in.   I know we all were watching and Cristie, your reaction was pretty good as well.   What did that do for the match and kind of the momentum swinging and keeping that going?   
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, it was a huge momentum swing there, just because I hit such a bad wedge shot and I got relief from the grand stand.   And I felt pretty good over the chip.   I kind of saw what Catriona's putt kind of did.   And once I hit it‑‑ I mean so many putts before that it ‑‑ everything looked like it was going to go in, so I just needed one to go in.   And that one looked like it was going to go in and when it went in we just went crazy.   I think we really needed that and it felt awesome.  
THE MODERATOR:   How much were you guys watching the other matches throughout the afternoon?   And to split 2‑2, kind of what's the feeling like heading into tomorrow down 5‑3?   
CRISTIE KERR:   Actually, I don't think we really paid much attention to the other matches.   We had our hands full with playing a tough team, and it would have been great to get another point this afternoon, but we hung tough, we got some points, and we're coming out strong tomorrow.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions?   
   
 Q.   Can you just talk about your frame of mind and the mood after that morning session, that tough morning session.   
CRISTIE KERR:   You're talking to me because you didn't play in the morning.   Okay.   It's been a long day.   
   
 Q.   For the whole American team, not you personally?  
CRISTIE KERR:   We knew we had to rally.   I thought we did a good job of rallying in the afternoon.   They're tough.   But we knew we had to get some points, and we did that, and I felt like I was close to playing really, really well.   This morning ‑‑ no, I'm saying this morning.   
MICHELLE WIE:   You did play really well.  
CRISTIE KERR:   And I came out and got the momentum right away and started hitting some better iron shots, and the greens are about as firm as they can get, I guess.   
You hit a wrong club, you're going to go screaming over a green, as you saw happen a couple times.   
I got my putter to work, so it was really satisfying seeing some of those putts go in when we needed them to.   
   
 Q.   Michelle, knowing how badly you wanted to be on this team, just how much does it mean to you to make a point?   Is that a relief and what does this do for your confidence?   
MICHELLE WIE:   I went out to watch a couple of matches this morning, and just seeing so much blue on the leaderboard, it was just the motivation I needed when I got off today.   
But honestly, I just had so much fun out there with Cristie, grinding out there.   It was nice to see her make some putts, it was nice to do that really big chip in.   And it was fun out there.   We grinded out there, it feels great to have a point.   And we're just going to kill it the next two days.  
CRISTIE KERR:   She has fun with me because I think she can put up with me.   
(Laughter.)   It's actually true.  
   
 Q.   Cristie, talk about playing this morning and then playing this afternoon and grinding out on a 36 holes on a course like this; a long course, a high course, an up‑and‑down course.   
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, it's tough.   With the altitude, and it's a hilly course, and I actually felt pretty good today.   It's probably the first day I really haven't noticed the altitude so much.   It's taken me three or four days to kind of get used to it.   So yeah, it's tough.   I'm going to sleep well tonight.   
   
 Q.   Cristie, you and Paula made a little run late in your morning match, did any of that carry over into your afternoon play?   
CRISTIE KERR:   For sure.   In foursomes in the morning, the alternate shot, you have to get up in your match.   If you lose control of the match early it's hard to get it back.   So every little bit helps.   If you're 4‑down you get to 3‑down, get to 2 town, get to 1‑down.   Take that into another match, it all adds up.   
   
 Q.   You both were young once and?  
CRISTIE KERR:   Thank you.  
(Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   And were out playing.   Can you speak to Charlie Hull.   Had you seen that kind of performance from a 17 year old before?   What did you think?   
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah.   Right here.   (Indicating to Michelle).   She's a good player.   She's thrown into a lot of pressure and an interesting situation this week.   And Solheim Cup makes you a stronger player.   It makes you believe that you can, and learn how to, handle anything that comes your way.   And she will be a better golfer for it.   
   
 Q.   Are the Americans staggered by this score and the outcome in the first day?   
CRISTIE KERR:   I don't think so.   We have seen it before.   A lot.   We have to have a really strong day tomorrow to give us the momentum to go into singles.   And we are all prepared to do it.   No matter what it takes.   
THE MODERATOR:   All right thank you very much, ladies.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT