KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 4, 2013
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   This has to be an encouraging‑‑ you gave yourself a lot of birdie opportunities today, and no one is really going real low. 
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, it was a shame.   You know, unfortunately made two really stupid mistakes on the back nine, but it feels good.   It feels good to show that I could have shot 66 out here, and it feels good that I know I left a lot of birdie chances out there.   I'm just excited for tomorrow.   Just can't wait to go out there and make some birdies. 

Q.   People talk about Lydia being 15 and the obliviousness of youth.   Can you remember the last time you felt completely carefree during a competitive round, like whatever? 
MICHELLE WIE:   Never, actually.

Q.   Seriously, even when you were 13 playing here?
MICHELLE WIE:   No, I was always‑‑ no, it's pretty cool, just having that experience as an amateur.   Watching her play today, it's such a cool experience.   I know I had such an amazing experience playing here as an amateur.   I think that's why Kraft is so special because it gives amateurs these opportunities to play with the pros, and it just brought me back to memory lane a little bit, and it felt good. 

Q.   What are your observations of her and her game?
MICHELLE WIE:   She's damned good.   You know, she hits it straight and she's not short.   She's pretty long and a good putter, good short game, just really solid of a round.   Doesn't really play like a 15 year old.

Q.   Does anything about her remind you of you? 
MICHELLE WIE:   I don't know, I guess a lot of people put us in comparison, but I don't like to compare.   I think she's really good on her own without having to compare her to me.   I don't know.

Q.   So Annika had a few comments are the reports today.   I guess you read them.   Certainly nothing new, but what was your‑‑ nothing that she said she hasn't said before. 
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, I mean, she actually reached out to me last night, said a couple things got misquoted, and I thought it was really nice of her to reach out to me.   She apologized for what she said, and I accept it, and that's that.

Q.   Didn't she write it, though?   How can she get misquoted on her own writing?
MICHELLE WIE:   I didn't read it, so I don't know what she said.

Q.   Does it ever feel normal to play with someone who calls you her idol? 
MICHELLE WIE:   No, that's weird.   That's really strange.   You know, I played with her for the first time in Australia, and she mentioned that to me, that she wants to go to Stanford like me.   It was kind of strange I have to say, but I'm just really rooting for her.

Q.   How does it put things in perspective watching her?
MICHELLE WIE:   Just kind of, like I said, puts me back on memory lane, and you kind of have to play, like you said, when I was 13, just kind of go out there and really just be in awe of everything.   I think at that stage that she's coming out, I think when I was 13 I was like, wow, I can't believe I'm here.   So I try to bring back that feeling a little bit and just feel really lucky that I'm here, and I think Kraft does that, it just makes you remember all the good times.

Q.   Trying to not be jaded?
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, I think so, kind of just like a fresh start and kind of like, wow, I'm here playing the Kraft.

Q.   So do you wish you could ever go back to that time knowing what you know now?
MICHELLE WIE:   I don't want to be 15 again.   I don't want to go back to high school.   Yeah, those were the really bad years. 

Q.   When you miss tee shots wide right, what's happening there?
MICHELLE WIE:   Well, that just slipped out of my hand.   It's just something I'm working on.   I had a couple of injuries, and I'm just getting back into it just hitting the ball again, just not being afraid of hurting. 

Q.   And you're liking your putting stroke?
MICHELLE WIE:   I do.   I was actually interested what you were going to make fun of today.

Q.   The table technique, that's what it's all about. 
MICHELLE WIE:   The tabletop.   (Laughter.)

Q.   When you played here for the first time, I went back and looked, and you were quoted, someone said, are you going to turn pro, and you said, well, I'm going to wait and I'm going to go to a college and then I may not even be a professional golfer, I may start a business or teach. 
MICHELLE WIE:   It's really funny hearing all the things that you say when you're 13, 14, 15.   You just look back, and you're like, the stuff that came out of my mouth. 
But it's just, like I tried to explain to Annika last night in my text messages, it's a personal decision that I'm going to make.   I didn't plan for any of this to happen, it just kind of happened, and I'm just really enjoying it, and it's just going to college is one of my best experiences of my life.   I didn't really plan anything, it just happened, and I'm going with the flow and trying not to have any regrets because I think even if you do make mistakes you still learn from it, and I'm having a lot of fun. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT