U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 31, 2018
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We are here with past champion, Michelle Wie.  Michelle shot a 3-under, 69 today.  Just walk us through a little bit your round.
MICHELLE WIE: I had fun today.  Played like a pretty decent round, which I'm always happen at a U.S. Open.  We had a great group today, Jess and Lexi.  We had a blast out there.
THE MODERATOR: Talk about the back to back birdies on 2 and 3.
MICHELLE WIE: On 2, right?  Not driver, 9-iron and four foot putt.  Then the next hole the par 5, right, 3-wood, then I laid up into the rough and then I hit a sand wedge to about five feet.
THE MODERATOR: Talk a little bit about the practice time you got this week.  I know you were out here Monday.
MICHELLE WIE: Played 18 holes Monday, took Tuesday completely off.  Then played 9 holes on Wednesday, yeah.
THE MODERATOR: What does it take to win the Women's Open?
MICHELLE WIE: I think patience.  Lot of patience and confidence.  A high pressure week this week.  I think being confident and kind of just being patient out there really helps.
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Michelle.
Q. Were you surprised by how dry it actually had gotten by this morning?
MICHELLE WIE: Crazy.  It's mind-blowing how great the golf course is.  The greens staff, they've been working day and night trying to get this golf course ready and have done an amazing job.
I thought there was no chance we could play a practice round yesterday.  I was out there and the greens were actually great, today even better.  Hopefully, you know, there will be no storms and just get better and better from here.
Q. Did you have any mud balls or any areas that were questionable at all?
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I had a couple mud balls.
Q. You said you took Tuesday completely off.
How much do you think that might help this week, actually be an advantage to be rested?
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah.  It's a tough week.  It's a long week, long rounds and, you know, especially being how hot it is now, it actually was nice to just take an off day and get your mind off of it.
Q. The other thing you said, you had done some rehab on that day.  How does that figure into like your travel schedule, how much time do you have to devote just to staying on top of injuries and staying healthy?
MICHELLE WIE: I have to say I did a good solid six hours on Tuesday of just rehab stuff.  Any free time I get, you know, I'm just in rehab mode always.
Q. Michelle, you said you had a couple of mud balls.  How did they come out?  Did you get any bad results from them?
MICHELLE WIE: I had a couple that went in completely different directions of what I thought it was going to do.  For the most part, it wasn't really as bad as I thought it was going to be.  I thought I was going to get half the ball covered in mud on every shot.  Wasn't that bad.
Q. After all the talk pre-tournament about whether to play the ball up or down, you were quite happy with the decision?
MICHELLE WIE: I never thought that we were ever going to do lift, clean and place.  I went in with that kind of mentality, just playing it down, I think they will moving forward.  You just have to be okay with it.  There's really nothing you can do.  If there is a mud ball, it's unfortunate.  That's the way they want to play it.  That's how we're going to play it.
Q. Any course it's good to be long with these conditions, was it even more of an advantage?
MICHELLE WIE: Possibly.  I think there's just no roll on the fairways whatsoever.  Yeah, so I guess it was nicer to have shorter clubs in, I guess, although I was the shortest one in my group.  I felt like the shorty today.
Q. Talk about your last hole there, what were you thinking I guess your 3rd shot into the green I mean obviously hits the cup there?  How important was it to make par there and what were you thinking when it almost went in?
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah.  You know, I was in the rough.  I had a mud ball and I was just like there's no chance of me hitting the green, be smart.  Laid up.
Was over the ball and I was like to my caddy, "I can still make par from here."  "Yeah, you can potentially make birdie."  I knew as soon as I hit the cup I could hear my caddy being, "I told you so."  I think it was definitely very important to keep the momentum going, yeah.
THE MODERATOR: Anything else for Michelle?  All right.  Thank you.
MICHELLE WIE: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT