SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
May 31, 2013
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   I'd like to welcome in Michelle Wie, 3‑under 68 opening round.   Awesome round, low this year, low here at this event.   Just talk about your round, take us through it, five birdies, two bogeys.   Take us through your day.   
    MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, I think I was out there and the main thing I focused on was just staying patient today.   I was really just thinking one shot at a time, not really thinking too far ahead or getting ahead of myself.   I think I did a good job of that and I really have to do that for the next two days.  
    THE MODERATOR:   Talk about the greens here, pretty tricky and a lot of undulations.   Talk about your work around the greens today.   
    MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, I think that's why I have to stay patient over here.   It's really hard to read the putts, and a lot of times you hit good putts and it hits the slope and doesn't go in.   So you have to know that you hit good putts and just focus on that.   
    THE MODERATOR:   We just said outside you're pretty well rested, took the week off through the Bahamas.   Talk about just taking a week off, coming here well‑rested and what you did at Sebonack.   You got some practice rounds in there, too.  
    MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, I made the decision not to go just because I can't really do four weeks in a row.   I've never really done that.   But after I saw all the pictures that everyone posted of Atlantis and the golf course and just everything, I was really bummed out that I didn't go, so next year I'm definitely going to go there because it looks awesome.   
   
 Q.   Are you disappointed about 9 and 18?   You were right next to the green and walked away with pars on both holes.   
    MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, it was a bit frustrating on 9 and 18, but on 9 I put myself on the wrong side of the hole.   I hit a really good chip and I left myself 30 feet.   It was a pretty difficult chip shot there.  
    On 18 I hit a great putt, just it was Mount Everest on the right, so it didn't go very far.   It's just about being patient out there, giving yourself opportunities and really try to make the best of it when an opportunity does come.   
   
 Q.   Following you around out there, it looked like 1 and 2 getting those saves was huge for you to get you going, and then later on 11 and 12, the back‑to‑back bogeys, but you came back pretty nicely.   Talk about the issue of mental toughness and how you were able to keep it together through those seemingly rough stretches of the round.   
    MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, like I said before, it's just a matter of being patient.   On the first hole I hit it in the fescue and just really got to take it one shot at a time, not really think too far ahead or not thinking of anything else but that shot, and I think I did a very good job of that today.   The two bogeys that I had back‑to‑back on the back nine, I hit good shots, just got a little bit unlucky, and same thing there.   I know I hit good shots, I know I hit good putts, and move on to the next hole.   
   
 Q.   This is the 10th anniversary of your first appearance here at age 13.   What do you recall of those days, and how exciting was it for you to actually be playing with LPGA Tour pros as a teenager?  
    MICHELLE WIE:   I can't believe it's 10 years already.   I feel so lucky of all the experiences I've had the last 10 years, playing this event.   I know it was always one of my favorites coming out here when I was 13, 14, just being in awe, just like you just look up to these players when you're growing up and you're actually warming up next to them on the driving range.   It's a pretty cool feeling to have.  
    I'm so grateful for everything that the sponsors have‑‑ all the experience that they let me have, and by believing in me and giving me sponsor exemptions and letting me have those experiences, it's pretty great.   I still try to keep that same mindset.   I do still feel very grateful that I'm out here, that I'm out here playing in tournaments, so I just always try to keep that in mind and just really put things in perspective.  
   
 Q.   I remember when you were here you were like the next superstar and all that, and your career path has been golf and college, where you've got your degree and everything.   When you thought of your career path say as a 16, 17 year old, what did you plan for yourself and did it come out the way you wanted it to come out?  
    MICHELLE WIE:   You know, I think nothing really goes exactly the way you plan.   There may be hiccups in the way and little adjustments along the way, and I think I did that.   College always in my game plan; always from day one I always wanted to go to Stanford, and I achieved one of my biggest dreams of going.   I'm just so happy that I went.   
    Of all the experiences that I've had, good and bad, I feel like I've learned from them, I feel like I am who I am now, just because of that, so I'm very grateful.   
   
 Q.   You talked about being patient today.   How do you sort of keep that attitude, that patience going into tomorrow and not get ahead of yourself, and also what does today's round do for your confidence going forward?   
    MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, you know, I think the big thing for me is not to really look too far ahead.   I think tomorrow No.1 tee all I'm going to think about is the first shot and for every shot just really be in the moment.   I think that's going to be a big key for me this week and the rest of the year.   
   
 Q.   It seems that everyone has a criticism about anything that you do.   Do you know about the criticisms?   Do you read about them?   How hear about them, whether it's your putting stance or whether you should go for a par‑5 in two or whether you should change your hair color?   Do you ever want to just tell people to take a hike?  
    MICHELLE WIE:   I think everyone is entitled to their own opinion.   I think that everyone makes their own opinion, and that's fine.   I have my opinions about people, and it's totally valid.   I think that it is what it is.   I try not to listen to it as much as I can, but it's just‑‑ you can't please everyone.   I'm not going to go around my way living my life trying to please everyone because in the end it doesn't really matter.   They're not the ones that are living my life.   They're not the ones that ultimately are in my life.   So I just am so grateful for my friends, my family and for the people inside my circle that believe in me.   
    And everyone else, I do want to be a role model, do good things for me, but you just can't please everyone.   
   
 Q.   And the circle that you talk about, how many people are in that circle?   
    MICHELLE WIE:   Not a lot.   
    THE MODERATOR:   Her posse is like 15 people, small group.   
   
 Q.   When did you decide to change your putting style and why?   
    MICHELLE WIE:   I did it late last year.   I think I did it in the middle of a round.   I just went a little bit lower.   I was thinking maybe I'm putting bad because I'm too tall and I just want to be a little bit shorter.   It felt good and I kept going, and it is what it is now.   
    THE MODERATOR:   We had a couple of Solheim Cuppers in here yesterday for pre‑tournament stuff.   People kind of commented on you being such a fierce Solheim Cupper, it brings out the best in you.   Talk about the upcoming Solheim Cup and what you're doing mentally to make that team.   Obviously everybody has images of you being so passionate as a U.S. member.   Just talk about Solheim Cup and your plan on hopefully getting a spot on the team.   
    MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, I mean, I think being a member of the Solheim Cup team is definitely one of my proudest achievements and just one of my best memories is playing the Solheim Cup in 2009 and 2011, and if I could just make the team, that would just be, again, one of my biggest achievements.   And especially Meg being the captain, I think that there is no other team that I would like to make this year or within 20 years.   I'm going to work my hardest.   I've been working my butt off all year, and hopefully I can play well enough starting this week to make some points and make the team.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about your year?   You've missed five cuts, you've had, I think, four or five rounds in the 60s.   Is it coming around or what?   
    MICHELLE WIE:   Well, I think I've been putting a lot of hard work in in the off‑season, and I do believe it's coming.   I think I've just been close to playing really well, and like I said, I just have to be patient.   I know if I put the work in, I know I can do it.   I just have to be patient and let it happen, not force it or anything.   
    THE MODERATOR:   Thanks for coming in.   Good luck the rest of the week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT