KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 5, 2013
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Making a lot of birdies?   
MICHELLE WIE:   For sure, I made a lot of great birdies.   I would have to say the front nine‑‑ well, actually the whole round was pretty interesting in general.   I hit some interesting shots around the trees, but just going out there and having fun, like I said yesterday, going out there and not taking anything for granted and being excited that I'm actually here and using that mind‑set today and I just felt it.   
   
 Q.   Did you have an embedded ball on the first whole?  
MICHELLE WIE:   Oh my God, I have never had anything like that in my entire life.   The edge ‑‑ and it was literally sloped 80 degrees, 70 degrees, and I got to it and I was like, where is my ball and I thought it was going to roll back and Duncan was like, "It's right there," and I saw a centimeter of the ball.   
So I had to take it out, identify it and then create the same exact lie, and I was looking at the rule official like, "Why am I doing this again?   Why am I covering this up?"   He was like, "Cover it up more," and I was like, "Okay."   But I got it out thankfully, but never had anything like that happen.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the up and down at nine when you had to call for the ruling and it just seemed like when you walked off that green you felt good about walking away with par.   
MICHELLE WIE:   I hooked one good.   I hooked my 5‑iron into the tree, and I hooked that well, bounced over the bunker, never hit it into the scoring tent before, that was interesting but overall afterwards it was like, that was a good 5.   I'll take it.   
   
 Q.   Do you have any‑‑ obviously you have memories around here.   Are there specific holes to where you think back to a great moment from your youth?   
MICHELLE WIE:   From my youth!   You know, there is a lot of them, really.   I think just really when I‑‑ well, most memorable one, I don't know if it's good or not but the most memorable, I was leading at one point on 14 or 15 and I hear a big roar and I'm like, what just happened and Karrie pulled it out on the last hole, and that's the most memorable.   I don't know if it's good or not, but a lot of great memories here.   
I played some of my best golf here so I'm excited.   
   
 Q.   What about the Women's Open in Sebonack?   Have you played there before?   
MICHELLE WIE:   I have not.   The owner at Sebonack is a member at my golf club.   I talked to him a lot, trying to get inside tips, and I'm excited, heard a lot of good things about it, never been to the Hamptons before, seen a lot on TV, so excited.   
   
 Q.   What kind of tips is he giving you?   
MICHELLE WIE:   Saying that it's tricky, it's pretty wide, which I was ecstatic to hear.   
   
 Q.   What's name of the golf club?   
MICHELLE WIE:   Bighorn Golf Club.   
   
 Q.   What will you work on?   Anything for tomorrow?   
MICHELLE WIE:   Touch up for everything, touch base on everything, won't spend too much time because I've been out here for a while.   
   
 Q.   Spent quite a bit of time with Lydia Ko the last month or two months.   You guys getting to know each other well and what do you think after two days here?   
MICHELLE WIE:   She is amazing.   I think she's pretty good and like I said yesterday, she is also a really good girl.   
I think she is grounded, she has a good head on her shoulders and she is just really‑‑ you know, she is enjoying herself out here.   I could tell she got a little frustrated today, but she made some great up and downs, but she is a solid player and a really good girl, too.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT