RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
September 15, 2012
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  COLIN CALLANDER:   We have Michelle Wie, just finished a 1‑over par total, a fine round today.   Completely different today, wasn't it?   
MICHELLE WIE:   It's amazing how different it was today.   You know, we were talking out there about how many stroke difference it would have been if we played yesterday.   But it was perfect for me today.   It was nice.  
COLIN CALLANDER:   When you started out, it was still a bit of wind?   
MICHELLE WIE:   Oh, there's a bit of wind when I started but nothing like yesterday.   The wind just stopped now.   
COLIN CALLANDER:   Did you think because of that, the afternoon starters might have a might advantage?   
MICHELLE WIE:   They might, they might not; but you can't really think about that.   You can't control the weather or other people playing.   So I'm just going to think about tomorrow.  
COLIN CALLANDER:   Scores are still pretty tough, does that show you how tough the golf course is.  
MICHELLE WIE:   Oh, the golf course is very tough.   There's a lot of bunkers still.   The bunkers aren't moving anywhere.   The fairways aren't getting wider.   It's a tough golf course.   It's a really good championship golf course, for sure.   
   
 Q.   You must be pleased with 1‑over par?  
MICHELLE WIE:   I am.   I had a lot of fun out there playing and I felt like I hit a lot of good shots.   I'm excited that I have a really good chance of not waking up at 4.00 am tomorrow, so I'm quite excited about that, too.   
   
 Q.   You probably are going to be in the mix now, or you would at least hope to be in the mix?  
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, for sure.   I guess 3‑under par leading right now.   Not sure what that's going to be at the end of the day.   But that's the only red number, and in a major, definitely gets up there.   Once you move up the leaderboard definitely gives you a chance.   So I'm really excited for 36 holes tomorrow and see what's going to happen.  
   
 Q.   Did you manage to get out and about yesterday seeing as we were winded off?   
MICHELLE WIE:   I went to that Liverpool mall area.   I was really tired.   Going out to dinner, and went to a really nice restaurant, and I was like, okay, I probably should go to bed and I saw the shops, and my eyes lit up like it was Christmas morning.   And I'm like, I'm not tired anymore.   So I did some shopping, so I guess I should do that again today.   
   
 Q.   (What did you buy?)  
MICHELLE WIE:   I don't want to bore you with that.   Well, if you really want to know ‑‑ you do really want to know.   
A couple pair, some pants, which is nice, some jeans.   Might return one today, didn't fit.   I was too lazy to try them on, if you really want to know‑‑ trousers.  
COLIN CALLANDER:   Tomorrow, 36 holes, a bit different than a normal Sunday.  
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, they told us yesterday.   I knew it was going to be 36 holes tomorrow.   So I've been preparing myself mentally that it's going to be a long day tomorrow and we'll see how the weather is tomorrow.   
It could be like this or it could be bad.   I'm just excited that I have a chance and that I'm in the mix and that I have an opportunity and just climbed up the leaderboard, so I'm going to try to win it tomorrow.   
COLIN CALLANDER:   With just 50 and ties playing, possible almost anybody in the field could win.  
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, a bit of a shock when I got that e‑mail yesterday but just got to go out there and try harder today.  
COLIN CALLANDER:   Do you think it was the right thing to do?   
MICHELLE WIE:   Obviously they are doing everything they can to finish by Sunday, so I mean, definitely cutting at 50 helps that.   I was a bit surprised, still, getting that e‑mail yesterday, but they have to do what they have to do.   
COLIN CALLANDER:   Thank you very much.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT