ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
July 24, 2018
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR: First I'd like to say welcome Michelle to the Aberdeen Standard Investment Ladies Scottish Open Media Centre.  It's great to have you here.   
MICHELLE WIE: Thank you.   
MODERATOR: Before I get going I thought I'd just kind of go through some Ladies Scottish Open career information for you.  You're going to be making your second appearance after a 19th place finish yesterday, yesterday last year should I say.  You're coming into the year with some great form.  You've missed no cuts, 14 for 14, and a win at the HSBC Champions.  You must be feeling pretty good.   
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah.  Excited to be here.  I love playing links golf.  I really enjoyed myself last year, and I felt like it was a great British Open prep.  So I made sure that I put it in my schedule again this year, and I'm very excited for this week.   
MODERATOR: You're obviously no stranger to links golf.  Have you had the chance to sneak out on the course?  How does it suit your eye?   
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah.  I've seen it twice now, and it's gorgeous.  It's definitely a little bit different with all the elevation changes.  Wasn't quite expecting that.  It looked flatter on TV.  But it's a beautiful golf course.  It's challenging.  And I think it's great.   
MODERATOR: Were you able to see the men play here two weeks ago?   
MICHELLE WIE: I saw some on TV.  I watched about like 30 minutes, and that's all I can handle of watching golf (laughs).   
MODERATOR: So you didn't pick up any tips from any of the guys, any Rickie Fowler drives?  Did you see any of the 400-yard-plus drives?   
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah.  I saw that one.  It was pretty impressive.   
MODERATOR: Do you think you can match anything like that?   
MICHELLE WIE: Oh, man.  If I hit a sprinkler, another sprinkler, I think so, yeah.   
MODERATOR: Just one more question from me before I pass it around.  You've seen the course twice.  Do you have three key holes that you think might kind of decide the championship this week or even three key holes to you?   
MICHELLE WIE: You know, coming down the stretch is always really important, I think 16, I remember watching it on TV and all the guys being aggressive and going for it.  It's all really going to be weather dependent.  Seemed like they had good weather.  But I think the par-5s here, there's only three of them.  So I think try and make birdie when you can.  It's a good mixture of holes, short and long.  The first hole is a good tough opening hole.  So if I could just come out steady, I think that would be great.   
MODERATOR: Great.  I'll open it up to the floor.   
 Q.  You mentioned the elevation being different from Dundonald where it's very flat.  The course is also very fast running compared to last year.  Is that a challenge that suits you?  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah.  I mean it's kind of what you expect when you come over here and play links golf courses, you know, little hills everywhere.  It's firm.  Really depends on what bounce it takes, and I think that makes it exciting.  You know, we played -- I mean over in the States this year it's been raining every week.  We've been playing some really soft golf courses, so this is a nice change of pace.   
 Q.  You finished 19th last year, but you were ^ there from the start.  What do you recall from the experience of the whole week last year?  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah.  Well, what I remember from last year the weather was just horrendous.  It's a little bit nicer here.  I was actually expecting it to be cold, but the weather is fantastic.  I hope I don't jinx it by saying that, but it's beautiful.  It's so beautiful here when the weather is great and you can actually enjoy the views.   
 Q.  You said you don't watch a lot of golf on TV.  Have you always never watched a lot of golf?  
MICHELLE WIE: I have to say 30 minutes is a record for me now.  So actually, I watched when Tiger was playing last week.  The weekend was very exciting.  But then again, I looked at my watch, and 30 minutes is all I can handle and I had to leave.   
 Q.  I think it said in your Twitter feed you just landed when Tiger Woods was leading.  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, that was exciting.  That was very exciting to see.   
 Q.  What do you put your consistency down to this season?  Has anything changed at all?  
MICHELLE WIE: Not really.  I'm just trying to focus on my tempo and keep that consistent every week.  I've played well, got in 14, and consistency was my main goal and I kind of strayed away from that a little bit and really trying to come back to that.  Just try and be consistent out there, being steady, not to up and down.  And that's kind of what I've been trying to do.   
 Q.  What do you make of this golfing hamlet, you know, having houses and golf courses, little village?  Have you known anywhere like it?  
MICHELLE WIE: It's amazing.  These little towns are so awesome.  I love coming over here, and it's a different experience than the States, for sure.  So I'm really enjoying myself.   
 Q.  And if I'm not mistaken, the first time you sort of learned links golf was at the Curtis Cup, wasn't it?  
MICHELLE WIE: Yes.   
 Q.  And what did David tell you to concentrate on?  
MICHELLE WIE: That's a long time ago.  I can barely remember what he told me yesterday.  Keep the ball low, out of the gorse.  Gorse wars and that's not fun.  So definitely stay out of that.   
 Q.  What would winning in Scotland on a links course mean for you?  
MICHELLE WIE: It's definitely on the very close to the top of my list.  You know, to win on the golf course or the style of golf course where golf was created, I think it would just mean the world to me.  Winning over here in Scotland, it's pretty cool, and something that I'm working very hard for.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT