U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 7, 2012
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Conditions were a little bit different today than they have been the first two days.   Did that affect the way you played at all?
MICHELLE WIE:   It was tough out there, for sure.   It was playing tough, and I left a couple of putts and left a couple of shots out there. 
Granted, it was playing really tough out there, but a little disappointed with my play today, but the thing is it's still the U. S. Open.   Na Yeon had a really awesome score today and we'll see what happens tomorrow.

Q.   Saw your course record lasted for all of the day.   Knowing how hard it was for you to post a 66, what does that say about a 65 when the pins were a little tougher today?
MICHELLE WIE:   I mean it was tough out there.   It was pretty crazy, that 65 today.   Good for her.   But I think tomorrow we'll see what happens.

Q.   In reality does she need to back up because it's unlikely to see another 65 or 66? 
MICHELLE WIE:   You never know what happens.   It was playing tough today, especially on the front nine.

Q.   How was the wind a factor in your game today?
MICHELLE WIE:   It was different because the winds were different.   The par‑3s played a lot differently.   Every hole played differently, but I felt I did a pretty good job of managing that.   Like I said, I hit a couple of loose shots and I felt like my putts should have gone in that didn't go.   So hopefully I'll get them back tomorrow.

Q.   What's your mindset going into tomorrow being so far back?
MICHELLE WIE:   Obviously a low score is good.   You have to look for that.   But it's still Blackwolf Run and shooting 65 is difficult, so I'm going to go out there and play the best score I can. 
Par is a good score, but obviously being so far back right now you have to make some birdies out there tomorrow.

Q.   Can you talk about being in contention and the crowds and everything and how you enjoyed that in '05 and '06?   What were the crowds like today?
MICHELLE WIE:   It was great.   The crowds were awesome today.   It was a lot of fun playing with Suzann in the final group.   It was a lot of fun being in contention.   I'm still not out of it.   Don't count me out just yet. 
It's exciting.   It's very exciting that I have the opportunity and I'm really looking forward to tomorrow.   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT