U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 6, 2012
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PETE KOWALSKY:   Michelle Wie at 6‑under par 66 ties for the third lowest second round score in U.S. Women's Open history.

Q.   Talk about your round.
MICHELLE WIE:   You know, obviously it went well today.   You know, it was just fun out there today.   I just went out there and kind of tried to be patient, and you know, when putts started dropping in, it makes for a low round.   So I'm really grateful for my score today, and I'm glad I'm definitely in contention. 

Q.   There's a lot of red numbers out there this morning.   How does the course set up today compared to yesterday?
MICHELLE WIE:   Well, for starters it wasn't quite as hot, which is nice, and the pins are a little bit more in the center today than yesterday. 
But overall it's still a U. S. Open golf course.   You know, I played out of my butt today to shoot 6‑under.

Q.   Michelle, knowing this course and how difficult it was and the conditions, did you think a 66 would have been possible going into this week or is that kind of a surprise to you?
MICHELLE WIE:   You know, not really, no.   Honestly, I thought even par for today would be really good.   But saying that, I'll take today, and like I said, it's halfway done.   I got a long way in front of me.   I'm really glad I shot the score I did today and that I'm back in contention and I'm really looking forward to this weekend.

Q.   What's the difference between today and yesterday?
MICHELLE WIE:   It's pretty similar actually.   Just a couple more shots got in there closer.   I had a couple more birdie putts today than I did yesterday, and yesterday I felt like I was lagging on my putts because I was outside 30 feet most of the day.   So being closer to the hole definitely helps.

Q.   People were expecting so many things from you at a young age.   Do you think a lot of people gave up on you too soon?   Is it kind of a reminder to people of how you can play and finish?
MICHELLE WIE:   I don't know if anyone gave up on me or not.   I'm sure some did and some didn't.   But I never gave up on myself, and today was a good reminder to myself that I can do and I still have it.

Q.   You must be please today with the starts you've had to the year already. 
MICHELLE WIE:   It's nice to know that I made the cut for sure, so that feels good.   But it's just like it was a good confidence booster.   But I have two long days ahead of me, you know, so I'm really looking forward to it.

Q.   How are you feeling in regards to not having to go to school anymore?   Does that free you up?
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, it does.   It's nice, when I go back I don't have to do homework or steady for an exam or anything, so it's nice. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT