U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 8, 2012
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   So just walk us through your round today.   How did it go out there?  
MICHELLE WIE:   It was one of the most frustrating rounds for me.   I hit a lot of missed shots today.   Just the long game, didn't feel comfortable for me out there, and I hit every putt really good and every putt looked like they were going to go in which didn't go in.   It was a very frustrating round overall.   But at the same time I still had a lot of fun playing today and it was a great U. S. Open experience, and I'm really looking forward to the next tournament.  
   
 Q.   Tell us about the experience this week.   What's it been like here with the crowds in Wisconsin?  
MICHELLE WIE:   It's been great, a really great overall experience in Kohler.   The fans were awesome, just very respectful and very cheering us on.   It felt really good.   I can't wait ‑‑ I hope there's another opportunity for us to come back here because I would really love it.  
   
 Q.   Such a big deficit for everybody to overcome.   Is it easy to get out there and press too much and cause you to hit bad shots?  
MICHELLE WIE:   I just didn't feel comfortable today with my long game.   On this golf course it's tough.   You have to hit good shots in there, which I didn't today.   You know, it just makes for a very long round.  
   
 Q.   What will you take out of this tournament with you?   Do you just kind of eliminate the bad and remember what went so well for you in the record‑setting round you had for the one day?   Or do you just kind of take all of it and try to learn from it?  
MICHELLE WIE:   I'm going to take all of it and learn from it.   Obviously there was a lot of positives this week that I will take on.   There are some things I need to work on, but at the same time this week was a definite confidence‑booster for me.   Being in contention again, it didn't work out for me today but just being up there?   Contention for me kind of got my juices flowing and kind of made me want it more and felt like what it was like again.   So I'm really looking forward to the next tournament and there's a lot of positives to take from this week and a lot of things I'm definitely going to learn from.  
   
 Q.   Where are you headed next?  
MICHELLE WIE:   Evian is my next tournament.   I'll have a nice two‑week break.   I think I'm going to need a little break after this week.  
   
 Q.   The way the course has been playing, is it that much more impressive the way Choi has been able to keep it going?  
MICHELLE WIE:   Exactly, yeah.   Like I said yesterday, her 65 was amazing.   My course record lasted a whole 24 hours.   
So you know, she's doing really well and I'm rooting for her.   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT