OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 15, 2011
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   So Michelle, well played today.
MICHELLE WIE:   Thank you.

Q.   Could I just have your reaction after that?
MICHELLE WIE:   A little frustrated after the last two holes, but I kept steady out there today.   I made a couple more putts, and I have two more days to try and shoot some more low scores.

Q.   It really was a recovery day after yesterday, but you're well back in the tournament.   I believe you're already two off the lead, after two days, you must be pretty pleased where you are overall.
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, I am.   You know, I'm definitely ‑‑ that's what matters.   I'm still in contention, and gotta go out there tomorrow, shoot another low round.

Q.   Can you just tell me exactly what you think went right today compared to yesterday?   Was it just the putting or better approach play?   What exactly was it?
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, you know, I made a couple more putts than I did yesterday.   That was pretty much it.

Q.   Maybe I can just ask you more specifically, talk about the round itself.   What were some of the high points for you in terms of putts you made or holes you were really happy with.   I mean yesterday you were saying fairways was an issue and just getting it closer to the pin.   Did you feel you kind of improved on that?
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah.   I made a couple long putts today.

Q.   Which holes were that?   Do you remember?   Do you remember birdie holes?   I mean your birdie holes, we wrote them down.   The 2nd?
MICHELLE WIE:   The 2nd hole I stuck it in pretty close.

Q.   The 10th?
MICHELLE WIE:   The 10th, yeah.   That was like a tap‑in as well.   12 was probably a long putt, like 30 feet or so. 
14 as well.   16 was like a nine‑foot putt.

Q.   So it sounds like you were just getting closer to the pin today.
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah.   A couple more.   You can't really rely on trying to make 30‑foot putts all the time.   (Inaudible).

Q.   I mean last question, I mean obviously you're at the halfway point.   You're in the mix.   Do you start thinking about getting up there and winning the tournament or is it still kind of too early to do that?
MICHELLE WIE:   It's still way too early.   Two days, a lot can happen.   Just gotta go out there and stay calm, stay focused and try and make a lot more birdies. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT