OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 14, 2011
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Michelle, would you just summarize your day for us. 
MICHELLE WIE:   Frustrating.   I just felt like it was just one of those days where nothing really went in and nothing kind of went my way. 
You know, I just kind of grinded out there, and you know, it was pretty frustrating that I was one over par today, but you know, I got tomorrow, and game's feeling pretty good, so I just gotta go out there and score.
THE MODERATOR:   You had a 65 here before.   Do you think that's in you again now? 
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah.   You know, I definitely hope so.   I hope it's in me still.   I just think I just gotta go out there, hit some more fairways, gotta get it closer.
During the last nine holes I felt like the wind judgment a little bit was difficult for me a little bit, so hopefully judge it better tomorrow and just go out there and make some more birdies.

Q.   Your putting, I mean I just was watching on a couple holes, you had a birdie chance I think on 7 and you just missed, and even coming in on 9 was a nice putt, just missed and your body language was just ugh.   Just seemed like you were just missing things. 
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, you know, it was just one of those days where I didn't feel like I was missing them.   Sometimes the speed was off a little bit sometimes, but like the last hole I think that pretty much sums it up.   I thought it was going to go in, doesn't go in.   If it does that kind of every time, it's kind of pretty frustrating.

Q.   How do you come back from them?   You were so close.   Do you kind of take something away and say, okay, tomorrow I just gotta make some small judgments, or what's your thinking going into tomorrow?
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, for sure.   You know, like I said, still feeling pretty good, still feeling confident.   Just gotta go out there and kind of make it happen, just get the wedge shots a little bit closer and get some shorter putts in there. 

Q.   Great.   Thanks so much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT