OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 17, 2011
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Could you give us a summary of the week?  
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah.   It was pretty frustrating.   I just couldn't get my putts to go in.   But a little better on the Back 9.   I just needed to play better on the front nine all week.  
   
 Q.   Seemed like coming off of 9 with that double bogey saw you throw the putter, because you were still in the mix coming into today.   I mean what happened?  
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, it was pretty frustrating.   I woke up with a bad neck today which is kind of frustrating when you sleep on it wrong and can't really move your head.   
But nothing really went in.   But at least I finished birdie, birdie, but gotta work on a lot of things for next season.  
   
 Q.   Yeah, looking ahead, what's your expectations for next season?   You didn't get the win this year, but how do you come off of this and try to keep positive?  
MICHELLE WIE:   You know, there's a lot of positive things to take away.   The round could have gotten away from me, but I hung in there and I made two birdies in the end.   
But aside from that there are just things to look forward to the off season.   I have things to work on, which is pretty exciting, and I am really looking forward to improving, and that's really exciting for me as a golfer, just going out there and trying my hardest and seeing how much I can improve.  
   
 Q.   One last thing, with Lexi Thompson, looks like she's going to win today.   What can you say about her?   I mean she made history as the youngest winner on the LPGA.   Now she's the second youngest here.   
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah.   I think she kind of has that mentality, just grip it and rip it.   She just goes out there and just kind of has fun, which is really nice to see.   She's a really talented player and I'm really impressed.  
   
 Q.   Would you offer any advice, obviously having been there, being young and having a lot of hype around you.   She's probably going to have something similar.   What would you be saying about how to deal with things like this, lots of media interest and pressure?  
MICHELLE WIE:   You know, I think she has a good support group around her, people that care about her, and you know, I think that she is doing really well.   I don't know about any advice I can give her.   I think she's handling it all very fine right now.  
   
 Q.   And how did the exams go this week?  
MICHELLE WIE:   Hopefully okay.  
   
 Q.   As you said, you didn't have a win this year.   You fell to 17th.   I mean you came back from 55 to 17.   Sorry.   What can you say about is there a lot more victories in you or do you kind of feel like oh gees, I wonder if I'm going to get another one or what's your mindset?  
MICHELLE WIE:   No.   Like I said, I'm really excited for the off season to try and really improve.   I really feel like ‑‑ all this year I felt like I was so close.   I felt like everything was so close, and I just need to go up to the next level and try to play better.   I'm really excited for that and for next year and to try and win from the beginning.  
   
 Q.   How's your neck?  
MICHELLE WIE:   Good.   Good.   I just slept on it wrong.   You know when you wake up and just can't move your head.   I think my body just freaks out when it's healthy.   Something has to be wrong with it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT