CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 27, 2011
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Michelle Wie into the interview room. Congratulations on your 4-under round today. Tied now at the top of the leaderboard. Take me through your thoughts as defending champion here, what it feels like to be heading into Sunday right there again? 
 MICHELLE WIE: It feels good. It always feels good to be in contention. As long as it gives me an opportunity that I can do it tomorrow, I'm very glad that I'm in this position. Tomorrow, I think with the weather, I've just got to be patient and try to get it done.

 Q. What has been the biggest difference for you this week with your game to be able to kind of put these rounds together? 
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, I just felt like for a while I was playing a lot better than my score showed. I was talking to Rosie. I just needed everything just to kind of fall into place. I'm kind of working on one thing a little too much and then something else goes, so I'm just trying to get everything together.

 Q. Your putter seems to be working really well this week. How comfortable are you with your putting right now? When you get that confidence, do you just kind of get on a roll with it? 
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I've been working really hard at my putting. Finally I kind of figured out a grip that I like, and I've been going at it for a couple of weeks now. I'm getting the hang of it, just trying to make some putts out there. That's the most important thing.

 Q. Like you said with the weather tomorrow they've moved the tee times up to try to make sure you can get the final round in. Does anything change when of you have to tee off much earlier? I know that everyone else is having to do the same thing too. 
 MICHELLE WIE: Not really. It's a pretty quick turn around from today, but I kind of like it. It gives me less time to think about things. I kind of sleep, wake up and get out there. So it's a good thing, I think for me.

 Q. Today it seemed that the leaders the ones who were still out on the course really didn't go low, you seemed to be the only one. How is the golf course playing differently today, and what do you think your game did to shoot the low score? 
 MICHELLE WIE: Well, I think the course is drying out a little bit until tomorrow. But it definitely is playing a little bit harder and a little bit faster. I don't know. I guess just kind of got like in a couple of holes for me, I guess, I don't know.

 Q. You and Paula have great fans. When you play together can you feel the excitement more than normal when the two of you play together? 
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, for sure. Paula has a really great if following, a lot of good fans. It's nice to see. I think it was great to play with her to today because everyone got kind of riled up and kind of excited. 
 It's nice to play in front of a crowd that's excited to see us play. It makes the game a lot more fun, for sure.

 Q. Your putter has been great all week, and today, near the end, there were a couple that were pretty darn close. Tomorrow do you feel if those that almost went in finally go in, that could be the difference tomorrow? 
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, for sure. Like yesterday and today I felt like a lot of putts during the end kind of just felt like they were going to go in but didn't. So you never know. It's kind of a fine line between making it and not making them. 
 So hopefully tomorrow I can go out there and everything will kind of just drop in.

 Q. You've been playing so well, are you a little concerned that the weather could play a role in winning the tournament tomorrow? 
 MICHELLE WIE: It's something that everyone's going to play under. I'm kind of expecting the worst as of right now. But you know, it's whatever happens, you never know. Whether the conditions are good or bad, you still have to play well and there are still players to beat and there are still things that you have to do no matter what. So I don't think it really makes that much of a difference. 
 Obviously, it could make things a little more challenging tomorrow, but like I said, it's the same game, everyone's under the same conditions, and we'll see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT