KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 26, 2018
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, I'm proud to be here with world No. 17 Michelle Wie, five-time LPGA winner, including this year in Singapore with the putt heard 'round the world, the 2018 HSBC Women's World Championship and a major winner at the 2014 U.S. Women's Open.  She's competing in her 14th event of the LPGA season, has made every single cut, as I mentioned, took the victory in Singapore, tied for 10th at the U.S. Women's Open.  She's competing in her 12th KPMG Women's PGA Championship, has three top-10 finishes and tied for 20th in 2017.   
We'll start off by saying, this is maybe some of the most consistent golf I think we've seen out of your in your career.  How do you feel out on the golf course, and is this maybe the most complete your game might be?   
MICHELLE WIE: I'm just having a lot of fun out there.  Every week I'm just trying to go out there and play my hardest, and just really trying to enjoy the game.   
THE MODERATOR: Michelle brought this up, I can take no credit for this.  I asked if Michelle had been here before.  She just finished 18 holes.  Last time she was here 17 years ago, age 11, the 2001 WAPL.  Has it changed since you were here 17 years ago?   
MICHELLE WIE: If I said I remembered this golf course, I would be lying.  But yeah, someone told that to me, and I was like, oh, yeah, Kemper Lakes, yeah.  A lot of great memories except for the golf course.  So I don't know if it'll benefit me or not.  But yeah, fun fact.   
THE MODERATOR: Now that you have done 18 holes and it's jogged your memory, what are your thoughts on the golf course?   
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, it's great.  I played the front nine yesterday.  Today was the first time playing the back nine.  Those finishing holes are amazing.  They're going to be a great challenge coming in.  Great golf course overall.   
THE MODERATOR: How is the wrist doing before we get into the week?   
MICHELLE WIE: Good, good.   
 Q.  Speaking of the younger Michelle, those of us who are watching you have noticed the swing is a little bit longer, looks a little bit closer to where you were at age 15, 16.  What are you doing?  How are you working on that, and what's the result been?  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I mean, I think I've touched upon this before.  The reason why my swing got so short and all the swing changes I've been through is really through my injuries.  I've had back issues, hip issues and ankle issues, which didn't allow me to swing the way I wanted to, and I had to try to find a swing that I could play with, and I think those being healthier now, I think just trying to get back to that swing, trying to hit it -- just get back to like that old swing.  I think with less restrictions on my body, it's helping for sure.   
 Q.  What makes those three finishing holes amazing?  
MICHELLE WIE: There's a lot of water.  It's tough.  The greens are definitely tough.  16 is a long hole and you're coming in, and it's a very tricky green.  17 is a great par-3, water all along the left.  Really depending on where they put the pin, it changes the hole completely.  18 speaks for itself, water on both ends.  It's just a great layout.   
 Q.  Does Singapore feel like a long time ago to you, or are you still riding that high?  
MICHELLE WIE: Feels like a long time ago.  I can't believe it's already summer.  We're already halfway through the season or even more, I think.  It's just crazy how time flies.  But yeah, it does feel like a long time ago.   
 Q.  You've been around this game at a very high level for a very long time; how has the level of competition around you improved over the years?  
MICHELLE WIE: Oh, exponentially.  I think every year I feel like the game is just getting -- everyone is getting better and better.  The scores are lower and lower every year.  The kids coming out are younger and younger, and it's an ever-changing game.  It's definitely trying my hardest to keep up and keep above it and just got to keep working hard.   
 Q.  What advice would you give to Brittany for what she's going to do next month in Lexington?  
MICHELLE WIE: We actually talked about it for a little bit.  We got paired together last week in Arkansas and we talked about it.  Just have fun, just enjoy it out there.  She asked me if I wanted to do it again, and I was like, no.  But I definitely really enjoyed it when I did.  It's a great experience.  I learned so much playing with the guys, and it's definitely a unique experience, and I think that she's someone that can compete with them.  She hits it really far.  She has the right mindset for it where she doesn't let things bother her and get to her, so I think she's going to have a blast.  Hopefully the course will play fast and you'll see her out-drive a couple of guys.  That would be fun.   
 Q.  You'd never want to do it again?  
MICHELLE WIE: Never is a strong word, but I'd probably say I wouldn't want to do it again.  I don't know, just don't really want to.   
 Q.  After seeing the course, how important will your distance be this week off the tee?  
MICHELLE WIE: I mean, if it plays this soft, it's definitely going to be playing pretty long, so I think hitting it further will definitely make an advantage because the greens are tricky out here.  Having shorter irons in will definitely be an advantage, I think.   
 Q.  If you could just describe a position that you're in with your swing right now that you and David are working on that you couldn't get to before because of an injury that you're excited about right now.  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I'm definitely excited.  It's nice hitting a golf ball and not having screaming pain.  But yeah, it's definitely a work in progress.  You know, trying to go back to a certain situation, it takes time, and it takes confidence, and I feel like I'm getting there.  The last couple of weeks I feel like the confidence is building, and I just need to get confident out there and just do what I need to do.  But yeah, just right now, it's just trying to build confidence with it.   
 Q.  When you are shorter, the swing is a little quicker.  You get back and through faster, and as you start getting longer, you're like, wait a minute, I should be at impact by now, so how difficult has it been to be patient enough to let that happen?  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, you just have to trust it.  I mean, I know when I'm out there and it feels quick, and I think every golfer has felt that, I was a little quick on that is kind of the phrase.  But yeah, just kind of trying to find my own rhythm, find it, get comfortable, and I felt like this year it's been getting closer and closer, feeling more and more confident.  So I just need to trust it out there, and you're right, I just need to trust the rhythm.   
 Q.  Your friend Danielle Kang is coming in.  What have you noticed different about her since she broke through to win her?  
MICHELLE WIE: I think she just feels more confident.  We talked a lot before she won, and she's been out here for a while and just feels -- she just was frustrated, frustrated about not having a win under her belt.  She knows how good she is, I know how good she is.  I think a lot of people know how good she is.  But she just needed that validation, and I think having that validation is important.  You put in all that work, and it's just nice to have something in return, and it was a great moment for her.   
 Q.  How much do you need validation like what you got in Singapore?  
MICHELLE WIE: I think every athlete needs validation.  Like I said, we just put so much work into it.  I think moments like Singapore for me, every win is such a high.  That's what we're looking for is the next high really.  That's why I practice.  I remember that feeling that I got at Singapore.  That's what gets me through my bad days, and that's what motivates me to wake up every day and go work out and go practice.  It's such an incredible experience that we get to even have that opportunity to feel that high, and it's just a fun experience for sure.   
THE MODERATOR: In closing, we're at the last cutoff for the UL International Crown.  Right now you'll be making the trip to Korea.  Things are very close.  What would it mean for you to have the chance again to represent the USA, and what will that week be like for us in Korea?   
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I think especially because it's in Korea it would be a very special week for me.  I'd get to see all my family and they'd get to see me play in another tournament, which is very rare for them.  So yeah, it would be amazing.  Any opportunity that I could get to represent my country, it's an incredible experience for me.  I'll be working very hard this week to try and make that happen.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT