THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 23, 2011
Cristie Kerr
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Interesting match, Cristie.   
 CRISTIE KERR: It was. We got off to a great start, and then they came back, and you know, holing out the bunker shot on 9 was so key for us.   
 It kind of got the momentum swinging in the right way, it went back their way, and we ended up getting it back.  
  
  Q. What do you say about your partner? Not only the bunker shot at 9, but a couple holes before that she was dead and just over the hazard on the par-5 and hit a great shot in which you made a clutch putt?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I think we work really well as a team. We hit shots and -- it's not going to go the way we want to always. But if she (Inaudible), obviously, we work well together.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible).   
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, you have to do that. It's a difficult format. It's easy to try too hard and you have to remind yourself to just try the right amount and we did that.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible).   
 MICHELLE WIE: It feels great. We had red going on the leaderboard, and I told Cristie, we're not going to let the red color go. We hung in there today. They put up a really good fight and we got lucky.  
  
  Q. There were shifts in momentum. Cristie, your bunker shot at 9, talk us through that.   
 CRISTIE KERR: I just knew with them being left of the green that we had to get that up-and-down. We couldn't really let it slip. (Inaudible) so I was able to pull that one out.  
  
  Q. Talk about Cristie's putt (Inaudible).   
 MICHELLE WIE: Stuff like that really helps. We work it out where I kind of get most of the irons. If I put it on the green, doesn't matter if it's 50 feet away or whatever, she'll make it. (Inaudible) so there are a couple of par-5s, I guess, I can hit it a long way.  
 CRISTIE KERR: We ham and egg it.  
  
  Q. Did you get as much of a buzz out of this as you ever have being your seventh time?   
 CRISTIE KERR: It's my sixth time. Thank you. Not quite Juli Inkster yet. Yeah, always. This is an amazing tournament. The Solheim Cup and the Solheim family, they do so much for women's golf.  
  
  Q. How important was it, do you think, to get the momentum going?   
 CRISTIE KERR: Very important. You know, I think it sends a message to our team that we're ready to play, ready to come out here. All of the matches are going to be tough, but to get the first point is great.  
  
  Q. Which hole was the key hole for you today?   
 CRISTIE KERR: That hole-out on the 9th hole, that was huge. That was a long bunker shot too, so, so unexpected, I'm sure, from the other team and from ourselves. You know, so to make that really was a shift in the momentum.  
  
  Q. What were your feelings after 15 going back after having the game for the match for a few holes?   
 MICHELLE WIE: It was frustrating. We played so well early on. Lost it, got up two again, lost it. We just kept patient. I think that was the key word out there, just not get ahead of ourselves. We just kind of grinded it out.  
  
  Q. What are you going to do now? Just take a bit of rest?   
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, going to try to rest and see what the captain has planned for the afternoon matches for us, because I'm not sure I really know quite what's going on yet with everybody else. I think I'm going out. We'll see.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT