CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 25, 2011
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome defending CN Canadian Women's Open champion, Michelle Wie, to the interview room. 5-under par today, with a nice long birdie on the 9th hole, which was your last hole of the day. If you would, just take us through the round and how it felt to be back out here with the Canadian fans supporting you?   
 MICHELLE WIE: It was fun. It was pretty cool on the first tee. They kind of announce you as the reigning champion, and that has a very nice ring to it.   
 But it was a good day. The weather looked like it was going to be bad, but fortunately it never rained on us, maybe for like five minutes. But I was trying to keep patient throughout the round. Didn't really get things going for a while. I just tried to stay patient, which I felt really good about.   
 THE MODERATOR: Can you take us through some of your key holes, anything that might have stood out to you?   
 MICHELLE WIE: I made two very long putts today. The other one was over 60 feet, which is pretty good.  
  
  Q. Which one was that?   
 MICHELLE WIE: The par-5, the fifth hole, I think it was. But other than that the thing that stood out for me the most was I was patient and I felt relaxed. Kind of had fun with Angela and Catriona, so it was a good day to day.  
  
  Q. How long was the putt on 9 for birdie?   
 MICHELLE WIE: Felt like 45 feet.  
  
  Q. Last year at this tournament you got off to a very good start. Does it feel the same as a year ago?   
 MICHELLE WIE: Well, other I'm missing the hole in one, but I think it's a long way to Sunday, three more rounds, and I've just got to keep patient like I did today. Some shots might not turn out the way I want to, but I've just got to keep moving along. I think that is the key for me this week is to just keep patient.  
  
  Q. Because the course played long and probably favors someone like you and quite obvious at minus-5, but did you feel comfortable enough that you knew that you were going to attack today as on posed to trying to manage it on the first day?   
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I think with the rain last night everything was pretty soft, so even with the longer club, you still could be very aggressive at the flag.   
 It's a difficult golf course. It's a challenging golf course, and like I said, you've just got to keep patient on it. You've got to be in the right areas.  
  
  Q. To hit two long putts like that, how much of that is the new putter and how much of that is just the aggressive approach? You looked like you took a pretty good round at the last one on nine?  
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, I like my putter. I think there's been quite some talk about it. Over the last couple of weeks I've been toying around with different grips and different ways to do it. But I think it's been feeling pretty good, and I've just got to keep working on it because obviously putting is something that I always need to work on and it's a very important part of the game.   
 Obviously, making two long putts do help the score. So for the next couple of days hopefully I can make a couple more of those.  
  
  Q. You missed a short putt on 16 that you never seemed to feel comfortable over, but then you made one on 17 that was a similar length. Talk about those both putts. Was the one on 17 important to get you feeling good about your putter again?   
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, 16 I hit a good putt. It was just one of those things where I was right on the crown and I just couldn't read it. It was one of those putts where it's not like you can hit it through the break because it's a very fast putt. And I hit it the way I wanted to, it just didn't break the way I wanted it to.  
  
  Q. Can you just talk about your decision to go to the long putter? Where were you in terms of how you felt about the standard length putter?   
 MICHELLE WIE: Well, before I never even thought about using a long putter. It just wasn't in my thoughts. And all of a sudden I just kind of -- I don't know. I guess I was just kind of practicing my strokes with my driver, which is about the same length as it. So I was like I might as well try it. It can't hurt.   
 So I had Nike make me a couple of putters and I've just been toying around with the grip. Sometimes change is good, so I felt good about it.  
  
  Q. I saw your parents out there. They seemed just as focused as you were sometimes. Does having them out there, do you draw encouragement from that?   
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, for sure. I love having my parents out there. They're really fun to watch as the gallery watch my dad's reactions and my parent's reactions. They really do entertain me out there.   
 But it's nice having a good support group, a solid support group out there that cheers for you even when you're not playing so well. It's nice.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT