RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 29, 2011
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What time did you leave last night?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Well, before David left yesterday we went out on the range, and it was raining when I was hitting balls on the range and it cleared up right afterwards. But I went back to my room to take a little nap and I came back and putted for quite a bit and hit a couple of balls, and I came back to the room at about 7:00.  
  
  Q. How long were you putting? Seemingly forever.   
 MICHELLE WIE: Seemingly forever. I think it was much necessary, though. But it was good. Maybe for like an hour or so. Not too long.  
  
  Q. What did you correct for the day?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Obviously it's my second week really using this putter, so just really fooling around with the grip and what feels comfortable. I kind of changed the grip a little bit today, and hopefully this will be the last change that I have to make. But we'll see tomorrow and the next day, just keep working.   
  
  Q. What did you change about the grip?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Kind of going into Matt Kuchar style right now, putter on the left forearm. Changing it up a bit.   
  
  Q. Did you feel confident with it today then?  
 MICHELLE WIE: I did. I felt pretty good with it. Obviously there was a couple of shots here and there, but overall it felt a lot better than yesterday.  
  
  Q. You're quite quick. Is that part of your routine now?  
 MICHELLE WIE: I always try to be quick. I never play well when I'm slow, and sometimes I tend to be a little bit slower than I want to. But I just kind of -- you just have to go in and hit it, I guess. Nothing more you can do.  
  
  Q. People were talking yesterday about switching between studies and golf. How difficult has it been for you the last few months?  
 MICHELLE WIE: It hasn't been difficult. I've had no school for the last few months --  
  
  Q. But when you have.   
 MICHELLE WIE: I played well actually when I had school. But it's just something that I kind of go through and kind of -- I put myself through. I really believe that education is important. It's a very important step for me especially, and I just couldn't have sat on it.   
  
  Q. I know you're looking forward to being able to have a good run at it once you're out of it, at golf, that is.   
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I'm looking forward to it, I think. It's been a good life experience so far. I've been playing in a lot of tournaments. I haven't really missed much at all. I've played in all the tournaments except for one this year, so even with my studies, I don't really miss out. But it is really nice to come back and have no homework.   
  
  Q. I can remember Tiger Woods being almost in the same spot, talking about just enjoying getting out and about in the countryside while he was here. Have you had any chance to do that?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Not so much. We went and toured the town of Carnoustie. We've been going out to eat, and it's been great. I saw an awesome playground just over there, I think. But it's very pretty with the ocean and stuff.   
  
  Q. When do you graduate?  
 MICHELLE WIE: March.  
  
  Q. What exactly are you studying?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Communication.   
  
  Q. Who helps you most with your putting, mom or dad?  
 MICHELLE WIE: I think they both put a lot of input in. Yesterday it was a good session. We kind of all kind of brainstormed. I kind of give them my feedback because obviously they spend the most time with me so they kind of see a couple things. But it was good. I can't say one or the other because then they're going to start fighting when they see this.   
  
  Q. So you can't give anyone credit?  
 MICHELLE WIE: No (laughing).   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT