KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 2, 2011
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Michelle Wie into the interview room. Congratulations, 3-under 69 today, 6-under now for the tournament. Kind of take us through your round today and what went right for you.
 MICHELLE WIE: It was a pretty solid round. I felt like I just went out there, tried to make a lot of birdies. Didn't make as many as I wanted to, but still a good round.
 THE MODERATOR: Questions? 

 Q. Michelle, for you to be in contention now after the way you started Thursday, does that even mean more to you than if you had been hitting on all cylinders from the start?
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah. You know, it feels good to be in this position right now after starting the way I did. But obviously I still have a long way to go, and I really want it, so hopefully tomorrow I'll have a lot of birdies.

 Q. I don't know if you've seen any of Yani, but it's like target practice almost for her today out there. How hard is it to chase somebody who's playing so well? And tomorrow can you even think about what she's doing or just try to make your own birdies?
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, it's tough to think about anybody else. You can't really control what they do. You can't like will them to do something. 
 But all I can do tomorrow is just go out there and try to shoot as low as I can, and if I go out there and I try my hardest and do everything I want to do, then I'm going to be happy no matter what. 

 Q. Can you just talk about what it was like to be out there on a roll on a major championship Saturday again, just what the atmosphere felt like?
 MICHELLE WIE: It was good. I think it was fun. It was a good crowds out there today, very energetic. Good weather and it was just a lot of fun today, a lot of fun to play. 

 Q. Can you talk about how the course sets up for your gam?
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, it sets up the way it does. It doesn't really suit me or not suit me. It's just what it is. I just have to go out and hit good shots.

 Q. What happened on the tap-in and how frustrating is that when your shots are so dear to try to catch up?
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah. I think it was kind of one of those putts that like -- I mean I didn't mis-hit it. It just broke a lot for a two-footer, a lot more than I thought, especially I missed the same putt last year from two feet.

 Q. (Indiscernible). 
 MICHELLE WIE: I don't remember, but it was the same thing as this. But I mean it is what it is. I feel like I hit a lot of other good shots, and hopefully tomorrow I can use the frustration for even more birdies.

 Q. Michelle, can you talk about how were the conditions today? Were the greens a little more receptive? It looked like you were able to hit the ball a little better. 
 MICHELLE WIE: I think with the wind a little bit into the wind it kind of stopped a little bit more. But it wasn't as windy as I expected it to be. I thought it was going to be a lot windier, but it was good playing conditions today.

 Q. What happened on 9?
 MICHELLE WIE: I don't know. I parred. 

 Q. With your shot. I mean all the way through. Did you mis-hit that or did it just release more than you thought it would?
 MICHELLE WIE: It was a hard shot. It was like one of those things where you can't really be sure, like be too aggressive. It was just a really hard shot.

 Q. You kept coming close and not birdieing on the front 9. What made them go in on the back 9?
 MICHELLE WIE: The putts just dropped in. I hit good putts on the front nine, but they didn't go in. Hopefully tomorrow I'll start on the front and hopefully get on a birdie roll. 

 Q. What did you hit it in there real close on 16?
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah. I hit a 9. It was about 140 to the hole. 

 Q. Is it true that win or lose you will be in class on Monday?
 MICHELLE WIE: Yep.

 Q. Or Tuesday. And can you talk about the decision to go to the spring quarter of school this year?
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, I thought it was a good time to do it. I didn't want to come back another fall after next March, and also it's my first spring quarter, so I'm really excited. The sun's out. It'll be fun.

 Q. Do you prefer coming from behind and maybe getting, you know, getting the crowd going if you make a couple early birdies or do you prefer playing from in front?
 MICHELLE WIE: I prefer being in front at this point, but you know, it is what it is. I am where I am. I'm really excited to play tomorrow. 

 Q. You said you really want this. Does getting close again just awaken that desire even more?
 MICHELLE WIE: Yes, for sure. It's been a while since I've been in contention here at Kraft, and it's a lot of fun. I forgot how fun it was, and I'm really excited to play tomorrow. 

 Q. Talking about tomorrow, have you thought about what you would do if you get to jump into Poppy's Pond?
 MICHELLE WIE: Not really thought about that yet. I'm just going to think about the first shot, second shot. I'm just thinking about game time tomorrow and just thinking about that. 

 Q. Have you played with Morgan recently? When was the last time you two played together?
 MICHELLE WIE: I mean we've played together. I think -- I can't really remember the last time I played, but I played with her a lot, so it should be fun. 
 THE MODERATOR: Any more questions? Thank you, Michelle. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT