EVIAN MASTERS PRESENTED BY SOCIETE GENERALE
July 19, 2011
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Michelle Wie into the interview room. Thanks for joining us today. You've had some really good tournaments this season, and you're coming off a great hole, birdie putt, to make the cut at the U.S. Women's Open and then played better on the weekend.  
 Can you just talk a little about your season and how you're feeling coming into this event.  
 MICHELLE WIE: I've been having a lot of fun this past season. Obviously it's been love the hard work. Been traveling to a lot of the tournaments and going to different places.   
 Playing the Broadmoor at the U.S. Open last week was an unbelievable experience. Um, so it's been fun. Hopefully play a lot better than the last part of the season.  
 MODERATOR: I know we talked quite a bit about this, but what is the experience like being a student and playing on the LPGA tour? There's lots that goes into that, and now you're getting kind of a little bit of a break in school so you can focus on golf a little bit more in the summer.   
 MICHELLE WIE: I think it's a unique experience. It's something that enabled me to grow more as person. I think kind of having the experience really helped me grow.   
 But also being on the tour is a lot fun. It's a lot hard work, and going out there, I think it's very fulfilling.   
 MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. How do you react to the words of Annika Sorenstam about your lack of playing and concentrating too much on studying?  
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, I think that just looking back at my stats and tournaments that I've played, this year I've played in every single one, every single one in year except one tournament. So I've been doing my best with those as well as I can.   
 You know, I love being out here. Obviously I want to be the best player that I can be; I want to win majors; I want to win tournaments; and I'm working very hard at that.  
 Right now that's my No. 1 goal, especially during the summer. And even if I'm at school, you know, I don't go to school full time. I have to go part time because obviously I do play, and I play in almost every tournament.  
  
  Q. Would you say you found a balance between sport and study?   
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I think education has always been very important to me, especially ever since I was young. So I've been playing on LPGA tournaments and going to regular high school and all of that, so it's been very important.   
 I think knowledge and education, I believe it's a very powerful tool for young adults. I also believe that your sport, your career is also important.   
 But I kind of didn't want to have to give up my education. I think that college is a lot more than just education and books. For me, I think it was a very important step for me to go to Stanford and to experience actually living on campus, kind of making it on my own, as one can say. People that have gone to college know that you do grow.   
 For me, being out here spending a lot of time when I was younger, it forced me to grow up a lot faster. I think I needed that step in my life, and I don't regret any of it.  
  
  Q. We have cold and wet conditions this week; how do you plan to adjust your game to this?  
 MICHELLE WIE: I brought a lot more clothes than in the past. It makes the golf course a lot tougher, I think, a lot longer. But hopefully it'll clear by the weekend.   
 The golf course is still in beautiful condition. It rained a lot on Sunday, I believe, and I came out to play yesterday and the course didn't seem at all soggy.  
 I think they've been doing a really good job maintaining the golf course, even with the weather.   
 MODERATOR: Any more questions for Michelle? All right. Thank you very much, Michelle.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT