U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 9, 2011
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. That final putt looks like it will be a big one to get you into the weekend.   
 MICHELLE WIE: Hopefully.   
  
  Q. Could you talk about that, and were you aware what it meant?  
 MICHELLE WIE: I think I live my life too difficultly. I mean, but, you know, I felt really good. Just kinda what I needed, and hopefully will be good enough.  
 I'm really proud of myself for making it. Um, if I don't make it, you know, I'll end it on a good note. Hopefully I will, and hopefully I play a lot better this weekend.  
  
  Q. What did you hit in and how long was that putt?  
 MICHELLE WIE: I hit a 9-iron, and the putt was about like 35 feet.   
  
  Q. Did you know you had to make birdie in order to make the projected cut line?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Well, I mean, not to put any pressure on me, but I was walking up to the 18th green and everyone was like, you have to make it to make the cut. I was like, Okay.   
  
  Q. You had a putt slip out on 17. You thought that thing was in?  
 MICHELLE WIE: I did so. But, you know, I hit some good putts out there. You know, a lot of putts in the middle that should have gone in. I missed a lot of short ones, as well.   
 So hopefully I'm really hoping that this will get me enough to play the weekend. Hopefully I can just make a lot more birdies. I learned from my mistakes on Thursday, so I'm feeling good about it.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like making the projected cut gives you more life?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Well, you know, I don't really like being on the cut line much, but as of right now I'll take it. I'll take tied for 59 right now. If that gets me into the weekend, that's awesome.   
 I'm just excited to be here. It's a great tournament. It will be honor to play on the weekend.  
  
  Q. Was it hard taking yourself out of Thursday? Did you feel you had to grind to just get out of Thursday?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I mean, you know, I played Thursday, came back on Friday, played one hole, and had a day's rest. I have been thinking about today's round for a long time.   
 So I'm glad I, you know, played decent today, and really happy I made that last putt. I can't emphasize that enough.  
  
  Q. You did a lot better on the greens today than Thursday. Did you work on your stroke yesterday?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Um, a little bit. Um, you know, I was just getting used to the mountains. Sometimes it doesn't look like it's going to be as slow or as fast, but it is.   
 So I think just getting used to the golf course. I did work on, you know, my game a lot yesterday. I had a lot of downtime.  
  
  Q. What makes the 18th hole so difficult?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Um, you know, with this pin position, I mean, the way Se Ri and Inbee hit it didn't look like a difficult pin position, but it is. There's a quick dropoff behind it.   
 Um, you just kind of want to get somewhere in the middle hoping it will bounce up.  
  
  Q. Is it the green that makes that hole so tough?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Um, I think it's everything. It's kind of like every hole, kind of hit the right part of the green. Kind of hard to get yourself a flat putt on that hole, which I think makes it difficult.  
  
  Q. Your first two rounds, what wasn't working and what did you fix?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Well, the strange thing is I hit a -- you know, the thing that was so frustrating for me that really kinda got me thinking is that I hit like 11 fairways on Thursday. I hit one straight in the middle of the fairway and I would make bogey from the middle of the fairway. You just can't really do that.   
 So just kinda working on my iron play, just getting to the right part. Just kinda trying to not make bogeys. I think that's the main key at a major tournament where you have to kind of play a boring kind of round where you make par, par, par, make a birdie here, make a birdie there.   
  
  Q. Have the weather delays affected you?  
 MICHELLE WIE: My tee time was supposed to be at 7:55 p.m., so, you know, I was about to get ready. I put on sunscreen and I was coming out, and then I got a call from my caddie saying that we're not gonna play. So then I kind of sat in the front of the TV a little bit more.   
 Then I got a call from him again saying we are gonna play at 8:30. I put on all my clothes with my cap and everything and then I got a call five minutes later saying we're not going to play.  
 So it was kind of like iffy. Kinda ate dinner really early. Didn't really know what to do.  
  
  Q. Did you notice the course play any differently after the weather in between?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Um, you know, it doesn't seem like there was that much rain, so it's playing a lot firmer definitely.  
  
  Q. You know, how much is expected from you. As long as you're in school, is it too much to expect you to be at your highest level?  
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, I think that a lot of people have been talking about that recently. But, you know, going to school is definitely one of my biggest dreams. You know, going to Stanford getting an education there and getting my degree.   
 But at the same time, I am a professional golfer and I am putting that as a priority - even when I'm at school. If I have a choice between having is to study or having to practice, I choose to practice, you know.   
 It's something that it's my career, so that's especially important to me. But at the same time, I think getting an education is also important, as well.   
 But, you know, I am trying my hardest. I'm not gonna say it's easy. I'm not gonna say going to school makes my life easier. But, you know, I'm trying my hardest, and I think I'm doing what I really want to do.   
 If I quit now, I'm gonna regret it for the rest of my life.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT