KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 1, 2011
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Michelle Wie into the interview room. 5-under today. Congratulations on your round. Can you tell us just a little bit about the round today and kind of what went right for you?   
 MICHELLE WIE: It was hot today. Seemed like it was even more humid than yesterday.   
 But I'm glad to have shot 5-under today with tough conditions, and I'm really looking forward to this weekend.  
 THE MODERATOR: What was the biggest difference between yesterday's round and today for you?   
 MICHELLE WIE: I think it's not really that big of a difference, couple putts here and there, couple shots here and there.  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions?   
  
  Q. Did the course play harder today did you think? I know you scored a lot better, but a lot of players aren't. What were the conditions like and how are they different than yesterday?  
 MICHELLE WIE: I think the greens are getting firmer and the rough is growing. It's pretty tough. You have to be in the fairway and you have to be on the right part of the green for sure.  
  
  Q. Yesterday you didn't seem all that discouraged after the 2-over. Did you know you just felt like your game was good, it was just a matter of a shot or two?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah. I mean I think I hung in there, grinded it good yesterday. I still had good feelings about my round, so I think today I kind of used those good feelings and tried to get off to a good start.  
  
  Q. Was it tough to get over the first tee shot? I mean what went through your mind when you saw what happened?  
 MICHELLE WIE: I never felt so horrible about a shot ever. I felt so horrible about hitting that poor little girl. But you know, I was kind of like, kind of got lucky and I just felt really bad, and hopefully she's fine.  
  
  Q. And the drunk fan on the back nine, did that have any --throw you off or anything?  
 MICHELLE WIE: I don't think drinking in over 100-degree weather is a smart idea. But he was quite entertaining. He wasn't obnoxious at all. I thought it was really funny. Started speaking Spanish there for a while.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).  
 MICHELLE WIE: No. But he was yelling out just things, random things.  
  
  Q. Michelle, did you know what happened after your first swing? When did you figure out what exactly had happened?  
 MICHELLE WIE: I thought I just hit like a sprinkler or a tree or something. I just -- but the little girl was the last thing on my mind, but hopefully she's okay.  
  
  Q. Have you ever hit anybody before in a gallery?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah. I mean considering how many times I hit it off line, yeah, I've hit a couple.  
  
  Q. Did you get a chance to talk to her?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah. I kind of was asking her if she was okay. Unfortunately I couldn't be with her until the paramedics came, but hopefully she's fine.  
  
  Q. Was the atmosphere pretty crazy out there today generally? Were people into it?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah. People were very into it. I think the crowds were very animated and it was a lot of fun playing in front of the crowds.   
  
  Q. Of all the four majors, which is your preference to win?  
 MICHELLE WIE: I really don't have a preference at all.  
  
  Q. You don't have more identification with one rather than the other?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Not really. I think this is a very special tournament, but I think all four majors are pretty important, but obviously I do have a lot of history here and it would be fantastic.  
  
  Q. Why is this so special for you, this tournament?  
 MICHELLE WIE: I think it's the fact that like I have a lot of good memories here. Playing in the final round with Annika when I was like 13, 14 was a pretty amazing experience, and I've been here for a long time and it's pretty cool. I've kind of grown up here.  
  
  Q. Was there a point where you finally made a putt that kind of got you going? Was there a stage in the day when that happened?  
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, it was nice to birdie the second hole and kind of get it going from there.   
 THE MODERATOR: Any more questions? Thank you, Michelle. Good luck the rest of the week.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT