OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 8, 2010
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. That was an eventful day on the golf course, what is the verdict overall?
 MICHELLE WIE: I'm just happy to be done. I thought that I played pretty good, hopefully make a couple more putts out there tomorrow and not have a 7 on the card.

 Q. Having made a 7 and 8, all champions have the ability to bounce back at the last, how did you do that? How did you reset and put it behind you?
 MICHELLE WIE: I was pretty mad. I was like, I can't believe that just happened. But things happen on the golf course and all you can do is get mad for a little bit and move forward. So thankfully I got it together on the last hole and made birdie. 

 Q. Saw you in a fair amount of discomfort a few times, you winced a few times, the injury is obviously a problem for you. How big a factor was it today?
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, I'm glad to be done. I'm just going to go out there and just grind out tomorrow. 

 Q. How will you spend your afternoon? 
 MICHELLE WIE: Studying, unfortunately. 

 Q. Talk us through the eagle. 
 MICHELLE WIE: I hit 3-wood and 6-iron to nine feet. 
 And then hit it left into the tree, took unplayable, dropped the ball, plugged in the sand and then I hit a 52 out and then I hit like a pitching wedge left of the green, didn't make it up-and-down. 

 Q. And then the other birdies? 
 MICHELLE WIE: I hit a 3-wood and then a pitching wedge and about a 12-foot putt. 
 15, I hit a 6-iron and about a 30-foot putt. 
 17, I hit a 3-wood and then pitching wedge left and then didn't make it up-and-down. 
 18, 3-wood, 5-iron and then lob-wedge. 

 Q. Maybe you can talk a little more about the round, you had an eagle early on and then the triple-bogeys, a little bit of a roller coaster?
 MICHELLE WIE: I grinded it out today, just went out there and tried to play the best I could and glad to be done right now, and just going to go out there and grind it out tomorrow.

 Q. 3-under, you were up there, second place and then to have the triple-bogey, that must have been disappointing, how did you feel coming off that?
 MICHELLE WIE: I was pretty pissed coming off the last hole, but felt good to make birdie and at least be in red numbers, but hopefully tomorrow and the rest of the weekend I won't have that.

 Q. How did you feel out there? Has the back been what's bothering you? 
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I'm just happy to be done. This morning, I didn't know if I could play or not, so I'm glad that I got through today, and three more rounds and I think just feeling good. At least the weather is warm. It's beautiful out here and it's just fun playing out there. So it's good that I got through today, get some rest tomorrow, have an afternoon tee time, so it will be good.

 Q. 1-under, does that keep you in the running in the weekend? 
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, for sure I definitely have to do better tomorrow, hopefully make a lot more putts and get a couple shots closer. If I just improve throughout the weekend. 

 Q. What were some things you felt good about and what were some things you struggled with? 
 MICHELLE WIE: I think over all I just kind of plodded down the fairway, tried to get on the green, just need to get a little bit closer to the hole and have shorter putts in. But aside from that, just have to make more birdies. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT