LORENA OCHOA INVITATIONAL BY BANAMEX AND CORONA LIGHT
November 10, 2010
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: We would like to welcome in Michelle Wie, defending champion of the Lorena Ochoa Invitational. You got your Rolex First-Time Victory here last year with an amazing bunker shot on the 18th hole. Just tell us how you feel being back here in Guadalajara.
 MICHELLE WIE: It's great being back here. The weather is awesome mand the course is even better than last year and I'm really excited to play. I'm really excited to defend and I feel like it's going to be a very good week. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: If you would, just talk about your season so far. Got your second victory in Canada this year. How has it been going for you? 
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, I think I struggled a little bit at the beginning of the season, but I do feel like I'm getting better as the season goes on. So hopefully towards end I can really get things going and play really well. 

 Q. How does it feel to have Lorena back in a tournament? 
 MICHELLE WIE: It feels great. You know, I think everyone is really happy to see her out here, and I think it's going to be really nice to see her play again. 

 Q. You are one of the first ones to have a chance to show that you're a back-to-back champion; can you talk a little bit more about that? 
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, hopefully I can play really well this week. You never know. Back-to-back would be really cool. But I'm just going to go out there and have fun and try my hardest. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: What's your best memory from being here last year, was it the 18th-hole shot or hoisting the trophy?
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I think definitely hoisting the trophy and the bunker shot was amazing. I think that was definitely one of the highlights. 

 Q. How have you felt being close to Lorena again? I know you two are friends. How do you feel seeing her once again in an LPGA event?
 MICHELLE WIE: It's very good. I'm very excited to see her and I think everyone feels the same way; that we are all very happy that Lorena is playing this week, and I'm very happy. 

 Q. Is there some kind of pressure you feel as defending champion?
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, there's a little bit of pressure but more so than that it's exciting. It's exciting to come back and have this opportunity. It's very cool. 

 Q. Last year, you won the tournament being a little bit injured, but yet you went out and won very convincingly. Now that you're healthy do you think you have an even better chance to win?
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I feel good so hopefully this week it will be even better. You know, just going to go out there and try my hardest as always. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thank you so much for coming in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT