CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 29, 2010
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: All right, Michelle, congratulations.
 MICHELLE WIE: Thank you. 
 THE MODERATOR: You're the winner of the 2010 CN Canadian Women's Open, your second career victory, held off Jiyai Shin in the final round, four players behind you, three strokes behind you. I think it might have been those three consecutive birdies on the back nine that did it. What do you think? 
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah. For sure. You know, that was a really great putt, really good confidence booster for me on 13 to make that putt going onto 14. Haven't been making a lot of putts the entire week, so it was good to make that; and then the chip was great. Everything kind of worked for me, and it was awesome. 
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, and please use the microphone. 

 Q. Michelle, can you tell us a little bit more about the chip-in on 15, what the lie was like? It looked from television and down there that you tried to maybe put the wedge in the ground to make sure the ball wouldn't stay short.
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, the lie was actually quite horrible. I was right up against the fringe. I never thought that 7-iron would go past, I guess the adrenaline and everything. It flew about like 20 yards from what I usually carry it. 
 You know, I kind of went up to that, I kind of had the same mentality on 17 when I was in the bunker and felt like it was going to go in. Just made sure I made good contact on it, landed right there and it went in, so it was awesome.

 Q. Michelle, when did it feel like you knew you had this tournament?
 MICHELLE WIE: I think -- I didn't know until like, you know, 17 really, because you know, a lot can happen. It's tough holes coming in. So you never know. 
 But you know, I felt that after I chipped in on 15 that, you know, it would be more probable.

 Q. On 8 and 14 you made a couple of big putts. You know, yesterday you talked about your putting needing to be better. How big was that for you?
 MICHELLE WIE: It was very big. I made a lot of crucial putts out there today. I made a lot of putts, but at the same time I made a lot of really crucial putts. 
 And you know, I think it was my ball striking that really kept me above water today. David and I have been working really hard at it, and you know, it's really nice to see that it pays off. 

 Q. What was the reception like on 18 when you got the champagne shower there?
 MICHELLE WIE: I was trying to run away from her. All I was thinking in my mind was I'm wearing white pants. 

 Q. What does it mean to get the second win for your career?
 MICHELLE WIE: It feels awesome. It feels absolutely fantastic. You know, I just -- it's been a long time since November, and it feels great. 
 You know, I just feel like I haven't been playing as well as I wanted to the last couple of months, and just really makes me more motivated for the rest of the season.

 Q. Do you think it's more special that you went wire to wire as well?
 MICHELLE WIE: Um, wire to wire. 
 You know, I think so. I think that like from the beginning it just felt like a good week, but then yesterday I, you know, struggled a little bit. 
 But you know, I was just kind of going out there and really focusing and really believing in myself, and it meant a lot to me.

 Q. What's your relationship, your friendship with Christina that she was able to give you that champagne shower?
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, Tina and I are very close. I've known her for a very long time. She's always been there for me, really good friend out here on Tour and even off Tour we hang out a lot. So she's a very special person to me.

 Q. You talked yesterday about just playing your own game, but does it mean a little something beating the person that they call the Final Round Queen?
 MICHELLE WIE: It does. I think that she played great today. And you know, yesterday she made a really big charge, and she's an awesome player. I mean I played with her a lot of times, and every single time she amazes me about how well she plays. 
 And I played with her, I feel like every player out here just brought their game to a whole new level, and I really had to work hard today to keep her off. 

 Q. Michelle, what's on the horizon for you now? What future plans do you have, participation, long-range goals, perhaps the Solheim in Ireland next September?
 MICHELLE WIE: I mean I can't really think that far in advance. That doesn't really work. I'm just going to go back to the States, have a good week off, work on my body and get ready for Arkansas.

 Q. You had mentioned you're also going back to school in the fall.
 MICHELLE WIE: Yes, I am. I'm going back right after Arkansas.

 Q. Michelle, can you just summarize the week for us, both on the course, off the course, what it was like for you?
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, it was a little tough this week. You know, there wasn't really a shot that didn't hurt this week, but you know, I fought through it. And you know, just keeping me healthy. 
 And you know, it was fun out there today and the rest of the week playing with Kristy, and you know, she had an awesome round, and it was a lot of fun. And definitely the hole-in-one helped a lot, I think, and it was a fun week overall.

 Q. Did you get a chance to get away from the course? Did you see any of the city at all?
 MICHELLE WIE: No, not really. I didn't really have a chance to. I didn't really have a chance to go "out and about." 
 THE MODERATOR: I guess we can close it on that one. Anything else? All right, Michelle. Congratulations.
 MICHELLE WIE: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT