RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 29, 2010
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, we have Michelle Wie in the interview area. She just shot a 2-under par 70, including a birdie at the 17th and an eagle at the 18th. Congratulations. How do you feel?

 MICHELLE WIE: You know, I felt good. I think that I stayed patient today. And it felt good making the par and making birdie and making putts. 
 But you know, it was a good day today. I think I hit a couple of good shots and a couple more putts.
 THE MODERATOR: Did you feel as if you missed a few out there today? 
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, I had a lot of birdie opportunities today. I hit them good, but they just didn't go in. 
 I just feel good that I'm hitting it right. It was good speed out there today, so hopefully tomorrow I'll be solid with that.
 THE MODERATOR: How difficult was it with the wind out there today? 
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah. It was quite difficult out there with the wind. It was pretty strong. A little different from the practice rounds, too. So that was interesting. 
 But just go out there and try to hit solid shots. If you don't, the wind's going to take over. 
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Michelle, when is the last time you started so well in a major? Can you remember?
 MICHELLE WIE: No, actually. 

 Q. Have you ever started this well?
 MICHELLE WIE: I actually don't know. 

 Q. When is the last time you felt so good, playing your first time in a major?
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, I think that today I was just patient out there today and I'm just going to do the same tomorrow. I think I just gotta hit good shots out there and give it one shot at a time. You can't look forward, you can't look back. You have to go out there and just stay in the present and just hit each shot at a time. 

 Q. Can you talk us through some of your distances in that run of 15 pars in a row? 
 MICHELLE WIE: I hit a lot of them. I hit a lot of close putts that nearly missed the hole that was just like just short that looked like they were going to go in. But I think all of them were like that.

 Q. You were giving yourself chances?
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah. I had a couple of good pars, pretty well, but I did well today.

 Q. Do you think that a couple of years ago that might have frustrated you and a few loose shots would have been the result of that frustration or do you feel more mature?
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah. I think even in the beginning of this year as well even when I was not making putts. I'm going to be very frustrated with myself. 
 But even before I started off today, I just told my caddy, told Brendan. And like if I'm hitting good shots, there's nothing you can do about the outcome. Just thinking more about the process.

 Q. Can you go over the details of the bogey on the first hole?
 MICHELLE WIE: I got kind of unlucky with that tee shot on one. I hit it really good on the line and just trickled down the hill. So it's kind of on the side hill. Second shot I didn't hit very well, went 100 yards. But had 98 yards kind of squirted out from the rough a little bit. So I had like a 40-foot putt for par. Two-putted.

 Q. And the birdie on 17th?
 MICHELLE WIE: Hit a driver. And then I hit a 6-iron to the right bunker, and landed on the front end, so I just tapped in. 18, I hit a driver and then I hit a 7-iron to about 25 feet. 

 Q. Can you tell us about whether you've worked with David Leadbetter in the past on your putting and also how recently have you been working with David on your swing?
 MICHELLE WIE: David actually was in England since the men's Open, they have a holiday here. So we've been working a lot. 
 You know, I'm in Orlando in the summer, so I see him a lot there. But we talk on the phone a lot. And caddying wise, you know, I'm just really trying to focus on myself and just trying to get comfortable with it. So you know, David and I have been working very consistently.

 Q. You don't have a different putting coach as such?
 MICHELLE WIE: No. I work a bit with Dave Peltz as well, too.

 Q. Can you remember '05 last time you played here, when you won the amateur medal?
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah. You know, I think it was a lot of good memories, especially in the practice rounds when I first got here and I first played it, it was like, oh, I remember being here. I remember that bunker, I remember being in the rough here, the fairway, but it's a fun course. 

 Q. Is it one of your favourites over here? 
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, I definitely like it. 

 Q. Michelle, the wind seemed to drop. Is there a constant speed that you have to make the most of, especially with the two-putts to finish?
 MICHELLE WIE: It's actually more confusing when the wind doesn't blow. It's like it has to come sometime. I had a flyer on 16. But it's almost more confusing when the wind kind of stops a little bit. 

 Q. Just wonder with the change of management a while ago, whether you're able to focus on your golf more with less distractions?
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, I think that I'm very happy right now and I'm very happy with IMG right now. I'm happy with them around me, I think they care about me, and they wish the best for me, so it's been nice. 
 THE MODERATOR: Any more questions? Michelle, congratulations. 
 MICHELLE WIE: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT