CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 28, 2010
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: All right, Michelle. Thanks for coming in. Third day in a row. This time you're tied for the lead going into the final round. Tell us about your day.   
 MICHELLE WIE: I felt like I left a lot of putts out there. I felt like I could have made a lot of them. But hopefully tomorrow I can make all of them.  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Michelle?   
  
  Q. Elements were very difficult all day, from the rain to mosquitos to maybe a back injury. How did you stay focused and play as well as you did?  
 MICHELLE WIE: I have to say of everything, the mosquitoes were the hardest to concentrate. They were pretty bad.   
 But I found out they were a little better on the greens than on the fairways. They were very bad on the rough. So I'll try to avoid that tomorrow.   
 But you know, a little tough out there today. I think Jiyai played awesome today, and it was fun today playing with her, so hopefully tomorrow I can make a lot more putts and see where things go.  
  
  Q. Have you had a lot of experience with mosquitoes prior to this? Do they have them in Hawaii?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Oh, yeah. We have a lot. At least you guys don't have flying cockroaches. (Laughs).  
  
  Q. Is there something you need to work on or is it just one of those days?  
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, I just think it was just one of those days. I just couldn't get the ball to the hole on most of them, so I'm just going to work on putting a little bit, and hopefully tomorrow they'll all go in.  
  
  Q. Michelle, have you noticed the course any softer today and how much? If you could talk about that a little bit.   
 MICHELLE WIE: Oh, yeah. The course is definitely a lot softer. The fairways were running a lot yesterday and the day before.   
 But you know, it rained. It'll probably rain a lot tonight, probably tomorrow, hopefully not, but the course is definitely playing softer.  
  
  Q. Would you rather have it softer tomorrow?  
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, I really don't -- it doesn't really matter. You definitely want to play on the same conditions.   
 You know, you always gotta go out there and play the elements.  
  
  Q. I noticed you were grabbing your back a lot today. Was it because of the weather or is it getting worse?  
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, it's hard to say. I have to say missing the fairways and trying to muscle it out of the rough did not really help the situation much. So hopefully I'll be in the short stuff tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Could you kind of describe your mindset, then, Michelle, as you go on to the final round and then for a chance to win this big event?  
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, I'm not thinking about winning or losing tomorrow. I'm just thinking about doing better than today. There's a couple of things that I want to do better.   
 I'm just going to go out there and just play. You know, it's not up to me if I win or lose. It's not up to anyone. You know, if I try to go out there and play my own game and I shoot a score that I'm happy about and if someone shoots a really low round, there's nothing I can do about it.   
 I can only control myself out there. So I'm going to focus on that tomorrow and just focus on my game and not focus on anyone else because I can't control them. I can't do anything.  
 THE MODERATOR: All right, Michelle. Thanks a lot.   
 MICHELLE WIE: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT