U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 8, 2010
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You found yourself 8-over after eight holes. Must be dejecting. What do you say to yourself? It's not easy to make birdies and make up that ground. 
 MICHELLE WIE: Oh, yeah, it's like I'm playing fantastic right now. It's a great day. But, I felt a little better. 
 Hopefully tomorrow will be a lot better.

 Q. What are the things you need to improve on tomorrow?
 MICHELLE WIE: Everything. (Laughing.)

 Q. That's a tall order. 
 MICHELLE WIE: Hopefully I can pull it off. 

 Q. What kind of positives can you take away from today? 
 MICHELLE WIE: Positives? You know, I'm trying to find 'em. Um, you know, just had a couple of good shots out there. I say a couple. Not many. 
 But hopefully tomorrow will be a whole new day and hopefully I'll play a lot better.

 Q. It's a tough not to get frustrated?
 MICHELLE WIE: I was trying not to today. It's kind of one of those days where nothing goes as planned. But, you know, I felt better coming in, so tomorrow hopefully start off on the right foot. 
 Try and make up for a couple birdies and try and have a good weekend. 

 Q. Was it more your game or more the golf course that was troublesome?
 MICHELLE WIE: Oh, it was definitely my game. I didn't play well at all today. 

 Q. You missed a lot of fairways. 
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, you can't really do that. Mostly I think it was just the putting that got me. Um, but, you know, I felt like my irons were good. My wedges were good. I just need to put it in the fairways so I can hit those.

 Q. (Indiscernible) After that, how do you settle yourself down?
 MICHELLE WIE: Um, you know, just -- you know, there was nothing I could do. You know, I try my hardest and things didn't really work out. I just try to move forward.

 Q. You played better on the back. Does that give you any hope for tomorrow, you know, a little bit of momentum going into tomorrow?
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, you know, tomorrow is a whole new day. I'm just going to go out there and try to shoot my best. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT