CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 26, 2010
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: We'd like to welcome in the first round leader Michelle Wie. Nice 65 today capped off by a nice shot on the 11th hole. If you would give us a brief recap of your day.  
 MICHELLE WIE: It was a fun day out there today, it was a good pairing. Just went out there and tried to have fun. Obviously it worked out well for me on 11. But it was pretty cool.   
  
  Q. How many hole-in-ones for your career, and what was it like when you saw the ball land on the green and roll into the cup?  
 MICHELLE WIE: It's my eighth hole-in-one, but second time in a tournament. It was the first time I had actually see it go in in a tournament. It was pretty cool. It was surreal. I didn't believe it actually happened.   
  
  Q. Did you feel like you had a 65 in you when you started the round today?   
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, I just went out there and just tried to go out there and have fun and focus on every shot. Even when I was out there, I just didn't really think about my score and just went out there and tried to hit every shot as best I could.  
  
  Q. How did you feel about the crowds? They were quite supportive?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, the crowds were awesome. The people out there were cheering pretty loudly. I'm really grateful to the fans that come out. It was just really fun today.   
  
  Q. Could you talk about the fan reaction on No. 11 when your shot went in, and then also, maybe elaborate when you went when you said that you did not do an embarrassing dance?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Well, I did a little shimmy after I made it in at McDonald's, and it got replayed one too many times and Scott made fun of it a little bit too much. So just decided against it. I really wanted to do it, but I didn't. But it was pretty crazy. You know, they make that sound like it's going to go in and make that noise and everyone's hands go up. It was really cool.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the mentality on 17, too, before you hit the bunker shot, because you sort of took your time and gave it a couple different looks before you jugged it.   
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, it just was an uphill lie, uphill to the green, and I just really thought I could make it, and I went up there, really thought about it, just trusted it, and kind of did what I thought it would do.   
  
  Q. How difficult was the wind to deal with today?   
 MICHELLE WIE: It was pretty difficult. I put my hair up in a bun. I was on the first tee and it was going everywhere, so I thought I would control it a little bit.   
  
  Q. You said earlier in the week that your game is kind of a work in progress. Does this really give you a boost at this point of your season to have a round like this?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, for sure. I feel like I definitely needed this, and it's always a work in progress. I'm going out there tomorrow, it's a whole new day. Today is over and tomorrow is a new beginning, so I'll try and go out there and try to have the same mentality I did today and just start fresh again.   
  
  Q. When is the last time you had the first round lead, and what does it mean in the big scheme of things?   
 MIKE SCANLAN: I think '05 Women's Open.   
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I think so. It's been a long time ago. It's pretty cool, you know, but it means nothing, really. Today is over and done with. We still have three more days of the tournament, so I've just really got to focus and try to play better every day.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Michelle, thanks so much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT