LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
June 8, 2010
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Okay, Michelle, we'll get started. Thanks for coming in.
 MICHELLE WIE: Thank you. 
 THE MODERATOR: I understand you recently made a nice purchase. Can you tell us about it.
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, you know, I got a puppy, which I'm really happy about. Her name is Lola Taco, because she's the color of a tortilla. (Laughing.) But I'm convinced she is part fox.
 THE MODERATOR: Enough about the dog. We'll talk about golf. Welcome back to Springfield. Just talk about where your game is at right now and how excited you are to be here at the State Farm Classic.
 MICHELLE WIE: I'm really excited to be here. It's a grit golf course. They treat us right here, so I'm really excited to be back and excited to play. Had a nice week off, two weeks off. I'm ready to play again. 
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Michelle. And please use the mic so that our transcriptionist can pick up the questions. 

 Q. How much more comfortable are you now in the environment on the LPGA now that you've been out here for a while now and won once?
 MICHELLE WIE: Yes, definitely you get used to it. You get used to the schedule, you get used to the tournaments, just the little rules. You know your rules, so you know what you can do. 
 It's just you get into a routine out here. I guess you just feel more comfortable with it once you do. 

 Q. Couple things. You mentioned the time off before this tournament. Does that help or hinder you? Do you get a chance to take a little time off and relax, or does it get you away from your game a little bit?
 MICHELLE WIE: Um, you know, I took a weekend off. But aside from that, I practiced every day and I worked out. There was a lot of things I wanted to work on. Had a couple good sessions with David Leadbetter, and it was good. 
 It was hot in Florida, so we had to wake up really early to practice. But, you know, I feel like I've got a lot done with my game, and hopefully I can play well this week.

 Q. Is it rare to get time an opportunity like that in the middle of the season? 
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, it's nice. You know, we have a nice stretch in front of us now, so it's nice to get ready for it and feel prepared.

 Q. How much has the Solheim Cup last year and the energy you took from that helped you this season?
 MICHELLE WIE: Um, it was great. You know, it got me really comfortable. It got me really excited. It helped me to handle really high-pressure situations on the golf course. 
 You know, you're out there with so much emotion and so much excitement, and a lot of pressure. It's not only you that you're, you know, playing for. It's your team and your country.
 So there was a lot of pressure, but it was a lot of fun. Teamwork was a lot fun. The girls on the team, we just had, you know, a blast playing. 

 Q. You mentioned being comfortable on the tour. What's it like to return to a course again, in this case, I think it would be, what, your third time here? 
 MICHELLE WIE: Uh-huh. Um, you know, it's excited to come back to a tournament, I mean, to a tournament where the golf course is very nice and where the conditions are really good. 
 I checked on the weather today. It was a really good week, and hopefully the weather clears up. 
 Always nice coming back to a tournament where you know that you like the golf course, and this is especially one.

 Q. Much has been said or written with Lorena retiring and Annika retiring a while back, that the tour needs a star to step up, especially an American star, for American audiences anyway. Do you agree with that? Do you think the tour needs an individual star to sort of come to the forefront?
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I think so. Um, you know, I think that all the players are bringing the game to a whole 'nother level, so it's harder out here. It's harder to win tournaments. Everyone is playing better and the scores are gonna be lower, there's higher competition. 
 And, you know, it is definitely more global. There are a lot the countries out there being represented, which I think is great. You know, I'm just doing my best to do as well as I can. 
 Hopefully when I play well, my game will speak for itself. Right now thought I'm still in the process, so I'm just trying as hard as I can and really just trying to focusing on winning.

 Q. In that context, do you get a sense at all of how much of your talent or your ability is still untapped now that you've been out and played a lot of courses and stuff?
 MICHELLE WIE: Um, you know, I feel like I still have a lot to work on. You know, I'm not as good as I want to be. You know, speaking of where I feel like I always have things to improve on. 
 You know, my goal in life, my goal in this career, is just to become the best player I can be and to try as hard as I can every week.
 I just do that and work on that and, you know, try and play as best as I can.

 Q. Again, in the context of the tour needing a star - and you're used to this because there's always been a lot focus on you - but at you're still young age, do you feel it's a little unfair for people to expect you to be that person at this stage of your career, or do you embrace that?
 MICHELLE WIE: Um, I'm actually flattered actually. It's great that people have such high expectations of me, because it's nice that people want me to play well and expect me to play well. It's nice. 
 I'd kind of have to start worrying if they don't have expectations of me and they think I'm gonna play bad. I have very high expectations of myself. I'm flattered every time I hear that. Just gonna try to do the best I can to hopefully live up to their expectations.

 Q. Can you talk about what specifically you've been work on with David. 
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, it's the same old same, same old: working on tempo and just trying to get the ball straight on the fairway and try and get into the hole. 
 THE MODERATOR: Anything else? All right. Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT