SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC
June 16, 2010
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We're here with Michelle Wie. Can you just talk a little bit about how your week has been so far and your preparation for the tournament.  
 MICHELLE WIE: It's been nice. Had a great Pro-Am round today. Had great partners. I haven't been here since 2003, so it's been a while. Um, you know, I come here and I kind of didn't remember the golf course. Went to the first tee and I was like, Ah, this is the golf course. It's just funny. I remember everything.  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. When you were a junior player, what percentage of the time would you say you spent practicing putting, and how does that compare to now that you're on tour?  
 MICHELLE WIE: I didn't putt at all when I started playing golf. I hit drivers all day long, and then I realized that you have to putt.   
 So then I started putting when I was like eight-ish, nine-ish.   
 You know, I spend a lot more time putting now, on my short game. I think I spend a lot more time putting and chipping than I do hitting balls now. Um, it was the other way around when I was younger.  
  
  Q. As a follow up to that, how would you compare the greens to the PGA events that you played compared to the greens week in and week out on the LPGA Tour?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Um, I mean, I only really played in really a couple (indiscernible), so it's really hard to describe.   
 But, you know, the greens out here are very nice. I think this course, the people that do the course do a really good job. I heard that they redid the greens, and they're looking a hundred times better. They are rolling really nicely.   
  
  Q. You mentioned 2003. I think you came here after winning the Public Links. I think that was the time when people were beginning to get an idea of who you were. Anything else about that time or that week kind of stick out for you?   
 MICHELLE WIE: Um, it's weird thinking that. I was 13. It was just so long ago. It was just -- you know, I just remember walking in and just feeling the way I did. It's just really cool to look back on it, because it was wasn't like I played it when I was 13 and kept playing after that. It was the first time I've been here since that time.   
 So it really makes me look back, and it really makes my smile, for sure. It's a good feeling looking back.  
  
  Q. Does it feel like several lifetimes ago and how far you've come since then?   
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, for sure. I always try to picture in my mind what I looked like. I don't know. Just funny to look back on it. It's just funny. It is.   
  
  Q. How well do you know Alexis Thompson, and what advice would you give her as she continues her path right now?  
 MICHELLE WIE: I actually don't know her at all. I met her once. But she's a very nice young girl. You know, I wish the best for her. I hope she just has fun and just, you know, tries her hardest.  
  
  Q. What's your take on the course, the condition of it? What will it take to play well here this week?  
 MICHELLE WIE: I think it's a fun golf course. There's a lot of different types of holes, and the greens are good. There's a lot of little slopes that can be tricky. So just got to keep it in the fairway, get on the greens, and try and give yourself an easy putt for birdie and try to take advantage of the par-5s.   
 There's a lot of long putts here, so just trying to -- I want to try not to make bogeys and make a lot of birdies.  
  
  Q. Will you be hitting a lot of drivers this week given the nature of the golf course and the doglegs?  
 MICHELLE WIE: I think when I was 13 here I think I hit almost every single driver. I probably won't do that this year. I'll try and mix it up between 3-woods, 5-woods, and drivers.   
  
  Q. Are there any players in particular that you've gotten good putting advice from, LPGA Tour players, PGA Tour players?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Well, I guess at the Solheim Cup when we were practicing I got to talk with Cristie a lot. I thought it was a good opportunity to pick her brain a little bit. Um, so she's been always very helpful. (Indiscernible) just a lot of the older players.   
  
  Q. Was there anything in particular she told you that really helped, any piece of advice?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Um, you know, just the way they, like, prepare for a tournament is what I was interested in. Just how they look at things. I just wanted to see what they saw.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the biggest hurdle that you face winning a tournament now?  
 MICHELLE WIE: It would have to be my injury. It was very unexpected. It just happened in a moment. That is the biggest hurdle that I have to overcome.   
  
  Q. A lots been made on the tour about the success of American winners. Cristie winning last week. Do you think there are so many good American players now, yourself included, it's just a matter of time before people begin to breakthrough?   
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, definitely think so. I think everything goes in waves, and hopefully the time will come very soon.   
 THE MODERATOR: Anymore questions? Thank you for your time, Michelle. Play well this week.   
 MICHELLE WIE: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT