KIA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY J GOLF
March 27, 2010
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   HEATHER DALY-DONOFRIO: Michelle, thank for coming in. Can you talk about your round and can you catch the leader? 
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, it was an interesting day out there today. You know, the front nine was a bit tough for me. I was a bit unlucky in situations, and I think I only hit one or two greens on the front nine, but I felt like my shots were good; I was rolling them good, and hopefully tomorrow I'll shoot lights out. 

 Q. You got a few flyers out there, didn't you? 
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, quite a bit. 

 Q. Were they just --
 MICHELLE WIE: It was from my muscle, working out. (Chuckles.)

 Q. Were they unexpected? Were you not able to play for them, given the lie? 
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I think I a couple of them were -- in the beginning of the round the wind was swirling, so on one of them it switched winds, but I think on a lot of lies, it was iffy. 
 They're small greens and you don't want to be short or long, and I believed in the club that I played with. I hit a good shot, and it went straight over the pin 20 or 30 yards, but it's what I can do; got to hit it in the fairway. 

 Q. Do you feel good about your score, given the battle? 
 MICHELLE WIE: Given the battle, I do, I really do. I had at least seven or eight really legitimate par putts that weren't easy, and I made a lot of them, so I'm happy. Once I'm in the fairway, I can start making a lot more birdies. 

 Q. Michelle, can you talk about the winds today and how that might have played into a course you're not all that familiar with? 
 MICHELLE WIE: It was a bit interesting. I felt like every hole was into the wind; it felt like a conspiracy, but it was okay. When you're out there, conditions can change so you've got to be prepared for it. I kind of knew before the winds would be weird, but it was weird. 

 Q. When you say you've got to shoot "lights out" what kind of number do you think it's going to take tomorrow? 
 MICHELLE WIE: I'm definitely going to try to go as low as I can, hopefully no bogeys tomorrow, just keep making birdies and keep truckin', just keep going and moving forward and hopefully something will happen. 
 I'm going to go out there tomorrow and have fun like I did today; hopefully I'll make some more putts and hopefully not get any flyers. 
 HEATHER DALY-DONOFRIO: Thank you, Michelle. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT