LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 14, 2018
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  3-under.  You happy with the way you finished this tournament?  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, it was a tough day out there today, so I'm happy to be under par.   
I wish I made more of a run for it, but I'm happy with the way I played today.   
 Q.  What was working for you today?  
MICHELLE WIE: I felt like I putted well today, and that helps in conditions like this.  I felt like I made a lot of good par saves out there to keep the momentum going.   
 Q.  Frustration earlier in the week from everybody with the wind.  Seemed like today might've been a little bit calmer.  Was it a little bit more agreeable at least?  
MICHELLE WIE: No.  I think today was the windiest day.  (Laugher.)   
 Q.  Definitely picked up here at the end.  Does that mess with your mind?  How do you deal with that?  
MICHELLE WIE: You know, you just have to be patient.  There are a lot of unpredictable circumstances.  Sometimes the wind can change.  You just have to hit good shots and be patient.   
 Q.  You get great support everywhere you go, but especially here at home.  What does it feel like to play in front of the hometown fans?  
MICHELLE WIE: Oh, it's amazing.  Such a great feeling to play in front of everyone.  A lot of my friends came out today, so that was really fun to see.   
Yeah, I love seeing all the junior golfers here, a lot of the kids from Hawaii State Junior Golf Association.  It's really good to see.   
 Q.  Michelle, you just finished up with a 71.  Give us an indication of how difficult it is out there today.  
MICHELLE WIE: It's pretty difficult, especially 18, straight downwind.  I'm just really happy to par that hole.   
 Q.  Players are coming into the stretch now where the wind is really gusting.  
MICHELLE WIE: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  How difficult are the holes, not only 18, but say, 15, through 18?  
MICHELLE WIE: It's just a little unpredictable, the wind.  It's gusts.  It's not a constant wind, so you think it's going to be one way and it does another thing.   
So just have to be patient out there.   
 Q.  You won in Singapore a couple months ago.  How close are you to being back in that sort of form?  
MICHELLE WIE: Feels pretty close.  Just feels like a couple shots here and there this week and I would've had a real chance.  I'm excited for how I'm playing, I'm excited for the next week, and hopefully give myself a chance coming into the weekend.   
 Q.  You're going to play Wilshire next week, a tournament in L.A., brand new event.  Also a busy evening tonight for you here at home.  Tell us about what you're doing tonight.  
MICHELLE WIE: Having a little fun ping-pong charity event to help support the Hawaii State Junior Golf Association.  It was actually great to see a lot of the kids out there today.   
It's going to be fun.  It's kind of a pro-am format.  Instead of golf, change it up a little bit, do a little ping-pong, eat some good food, and have fun today.  Raise some money.   
 Q.  Yeah, sounds like a fun night.  Best of luck font.  We'll see you next week.  
MICHELLE WIE: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT