LPGA TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
November 19, 2009
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MICHELLE WIE: I held it in there. But it was a tough day out there today. There was some tough pins out there and such. It was windy.

 Q. What happened on 17?
 MICHELLE WIE: I just hit a bad shot. I just couldn't, you know, go to my left side, and I just kind of lost it a little bit. 
 But, you know, I kind of went -- I got the second shot up-and-down, so it was okay. 

 Q. The ankle, just constant problem or it comes and goes? 
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, yeah. I'm still standing right now. Just have to -- you know, definitely gonna ice it and stuff and assess what I can do tomorrow.

 Q. (Question regarding drivers. )
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, I don't know. It's just -- it is what it is really. You know, like I said, I'm just gonna go and ice it now and see what I can do tomorrow.

 Q. Did you aggravate it sometime during the round today?
 MICHELLE WIE: No. I mean, I just -- it's just -- I don't know, it just happened.

 Q. Do you wish you would have been in the morning group?
 MICHELLE WIE: Well, you know, I heard there was no wind. Like right now there's no wind really. 
 But I think the wind just likes us. We always get the tee times with the wind. It was a hard day out there today, but, you know, I was proud of myself for just keeping it in play -- minus 17. We really just fought through everything.

 Q. (Indiscernible.)
 MICHELLE WIE: Oh, yeah, it was great. Since I saw my tee times, I was like, This is awesome. Um, you know, it was a fun day out there today, and I can't wait for tomorrow.

 Q. It looked like Christina had a running commentary through the whole round. 
 MICHELLE WIE: That's her for you. You know, that's Christina for you. But she, um, you know, fought through it and she kept playing. It's good to see her, you know, keep fighting through it.

 Q. I saw you at the Oregon/Stanford game. I was wondering, did you run onto the field with all the other students? 
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, well, actually I was like standing up in front, so people -- like I almost died. Stampede there. But I kind of went with the crowd and I went on the field, but it was fun. It was a great game.

 Q. Was it disappointing that you didn't win the big game on Saturday?
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, it's very disappointing. You know, the only time I went was freshman year. I'll be there for the Notre Dame game, so... 
 I'm really excited for that.

 Q. You just seem like you're so much more relaxed since the Solheim Cup, that you're really having fun and enjoying the camaraderie out here. Is there a correlation?
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, just kind of from the beginning of this year, just kind of looked at myself kind of like a new year's resolution kind of thing, where, you know, I promised myself that I'm gonna be, you know, happy more, and relaxed. 
 This is how I am off the golf course, so I'm ready to put that side down. Just being more myself really.

 Q. There's some mystery about what happened to the ankle. Can you clear that up, just where it happened. 
 MICHELLE WIE: Well, it's a whole saga, but basically stepped in a couple of holes here and there.

 Q. (Question regarding evaluation and playing tomorrow.)
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, as of right now, it's too soon right now. I just gotta see -- you know, gonna go to the trailer and get some ice on it and such. But, you know, just gonna really assess it. 

 Q. (Indiscernible.)
 MICHELLE WIE: Um, I think honestly, yes. We'll have to see.

 Q. The forecast says there could be a lot of rain and a lot of delays. Does that help you make your decision, or hurt you
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, we'll just have to see. You you never know what the weather is gonna do. We'll just have to see.

 Q. You are the top American player. Your last tournament was your first LPGA win. You feel like you have to be in this tournament, right? 
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, um, I just want to play for myself. Obviously it is a Tour Championship, which obviously it's a very important tournament. 
 So, you know, like I said, I just have to assess. I really want to play, so.... 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT