OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 10, 2009
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. A 69 yesterday, 3-under par, by the time you teed off today, 9-under was posted. What was the goal going out? What was the game plan?   
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, just hit some fairways, make some putts. Just keep making birdies. I made two stupid bogeys today, and try not to do that the next couple of days. But you know, keep making birdies and try to keep going low.  
  
  Q. You made a terrific birdie at 12 and then made a 3-putt 6 at the 13th. How important was the birdie at 14 for momentum?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Oh, it was very important. Just that 3-putt on 13 was quite strange. I felt like pretty good with my putting -- still have to keep working on it and keep making putts. Hopefully they will be going in the right way.  
  
  Q. How do you feel overall compared to yesterday?  
 MICHELLE WIE: I feel like I'm having a lot of fun yesterday. It's pretty cool playing in Dubai.   
 But I feel like I'm playing pretty consistent. Like I said I want to make a lot more birdies and keep playing better every day.   
  
  Q. Anymore schoolwork to come, or will you now focus on winning this tournament?  
 MICHELLE WIE: I have an exam tomorrow, so we'll see.  
  
  Q. Why is that so important for you? People will say, Michelle Wie is going to make a fortune playing golf; why is she so interested in getting these qualifications?   
 MICHELLE WIE: Well, I do believe that education is one of the most important things. I believe in that, ever since I started playing golf, before I started playing golf. And I just don't think that even if you become a professional athlete that you have to give up your education.   
 Hopefully I can send that message out there; that you can do both, you can go to school and you can come out here.   
  
  Q. What's your paper on for tomorrow?   
 MICHELLE WIE: I have an exam. It's on communications, just about the new -- like the digital media in society I guess.  
  
  Q. Will you be studying tonight again?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, probably.   
  
  Q. How will you send in the paper? Will it be tomorrow that you have to send it by Internet?  
 MICHELLE WIE: No, it's an actual exam. So they will send it to me, and I have to take it down and answer questions and stuff.   
  
  Q. So today, you started really well with three birdies in a row. Where did it come from?   
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, I kind of went out there, I saw the scoring was really low and I was like, I have to start out like this, you know. So I just kind of went out there and it kind of worked out.  
  
  Q. How did you make the bogey on 6?   
 MICHELLE WIE: Well, actually I was in the right sand and I hit a good shot, but had to chip. I chipped it to about four feet and I missed the putt.   
  
  Q. Just a couple behind at the moment. How do you feel about your chances of winning and having a good weekend?   
 MICHELLE WIE: I'm just going to keep having fun out there and keep trying my hardest and trying to make a lot more birdies and to not make any bogeys.   
  
  Q. Yesterday's leader had a double-bogey in the water on 18, were you aware of that?  
 MICHELLE WIE: No, I didn't. You can't see the scoreboard until you get on the green.   
  
  Q. Did you look at the scores of other players?   
 MICHELLE WIE: Well, you know, sometimes I look. Sometimes I don't. Doesn't really matter I guess. I'm just trying to go out there and make as many birdies as I can.  
  
  Q. You said you missed a few putts. Did you think those were easier putts to miss?   
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I missed a couple of short ones out there. Definitely going to work on that today, and hopefully that won't happen tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Will you get enough sleep for tomorrow?  
 MICHELLE WIE: For sure, I'm definitely going to sleep well.   
  
  Q. Do you know how many putts you had today?  
 MICHELLE WIE: I do know I didn't hit many fairways. That I know. But I can probably give you a linear regression on that.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT