LORENA OCHOA INVITATIONAL BY BANAMEX AND CORONA LIGHT
November 13, 2009
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Do you feel like you're really close to your first win on the LPGA, like it's the moment to do it? How do you feel going into the weekend? 
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, I do feel really close. There's a lot of work to be done. I feel like I need to shoot a lot lower and play a lot better over the weekend. But if everything works out, hopefully it will be the week. But I'm just going to do the same thing I've done over the last two days, just to try and play my hardest. 

 Q. Could you describe the eagle you scored? 
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, I felt like it was a really good shot, if I might say so myself (laughing). It was about 260 yards and I hit like a cut 3-wood, and it was a lot better than I would have expected. I was just thinking get in the bunker or whatever, but I hit it really well, and it felt really good. Eagles are great. 

 Q. On the first tee, I saw you with the ankle, you looked like you were limping, how much does it impinge on your game?
 MICHELLE WIE: Well, I don't know how to answer that question. It is what it is. (Laughing). 

 Q. So it doesn't impinge on your game?
 MICHELLE WIE: I don't know. I don't want to think about it. 

 Q. You're going to play in like the honor group tomorrow with Jiyai Shin. How do you feel about that? 
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, I love playing with her. She's a really fun player to play with and I always fell like I can learn from her playing with her, and I think it's going to be a really fun day tomorrow. 

 Q. How do you feel about the fans here in México, because it seems you have like a great support here?
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, I love the fans here. They are just -- you know, I love seeing -- there are so many kids out here, and I love seeing that. 
 The people have been very nice to me here, and just, you know, seeing the people on the golf course, seeing the cheering and stuff, it just makes many he feel good. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thanks, Michelle. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT