LORENA OCHOA INVITATIONAL BY BANAMEX AND CORONA LIGHT
November 10, 2009
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Michelle, thank you for coming in. Welcome to the Lorena Ochoa Invitational, your first trip here to this event. Have you been to Guadalajara before? 
 MICHELLE WIE: No, I haven't, no. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: If you would, talk about being here in Guadalajara and playing at an event and hosted by the world No. 1.
 MICHELLE WIE: It's a really cool city, what I've seen so far there are some really beautiful buildings around here. We drove around a little bit yesterday and went out to eat and it's just really nice. It's just really nice to be in a different country, somewhere where people don't speak English, is kind of cool. 
 And also, the golf course is amazing. Looking out this window, it kind of reminds me of home a little bit, and it's nice weather is warm. 

 Q. What do you think about your season so far you? Are you satisfied?
 MICHELLE WIE: I feel like I've done well, but I want to do better. I'm not 100 percent satisfied about what I did this season. I had a lot of fun playing in all of the tournaments and travelling a lot. And I did feel like I had a lot of good results out there, but I do feel like I need to improve a lot, and do better in these last two events. 

 Q. Your expectations about this tournament? 
 MICHELLE WIE: My expectations, you know, I expect myself to try my hardest here this week, play my hardest and to have fun. And obviously to play really well to win, that would be my No. 1 goal. But like always, just try my hardest and to have fun. 

 Q. What does this mean for you to play with the best players in this tournament? 
 MICHELLE WIE: It's just a great experience for me. I just feel it's an honor to be here in the top 35, to be surrounded by the best golfers in the world, and to be playing in Lorena's event and to be in her hometown; and just to be playing somewhere where she grew up, I think it's really cool. I think it's going to be a lot of fun this week. 

 Q. How is the ankle doing and what made you come here? Are you feeling better with your ankle and how did that influence your thinking?
 MICHELLE WIE: It's a tricky situation. It still hurts from time to time, but I got a tape job and I ice it and such. It shouldn't be too big of a problem. You know, I just want to come here and play. I haven't really played in a while and especially because it's Lorena's event, I wanted to come. I think it's going to be an enjoyable week. 

 Q. How important is it for you to get a victory? How much will that change your outlook on the course? Do you feel pressure to finally break through and win a tournament, and when is the last time you played?
 MICHELLE WIE: Well, there's a lot of internal pressure as well as external pressure. Everyone is hyping it up but I really want to win. I really want to break through and get it. But it's not an easy thing to do, and I've just been working really hard on it. I do notice that there are a lot of things to improve to get that first one, but it would just be so fantastic if I could get that first win very soon. 

 Q. When is the last time you played?
 MICHELLE WIE: Alabama, four weeks.

 Q. You didn't lose a single point this year at the Solheim Cup. Were you surprised that your first time out there would be that good, and what was the best part besides winning? 
 MICHELLE WIE: I was very nervous going into the Solheim Cup. My captains and my team, they really helped me to stay calm and they just kept talking me into it. I felt like it was a game really. It was really fun. 
 And just getting to know all of those girls a lot better and spending a lot of time with them was a unique experience. I think golf is such a solo sport, you're always out there by yourself, but being in a team, being on a team, I just felt it was a really nice change of pace, and it was just really motivating to be around the best American players and the best European players. It was just so much excitement and motivation and just to represent your country, it was a great feeling. 

 Q. Who do you feel are the strongest rivals in this tournament?
 MICHELLE WIE: I think everyone in the field. I think everyone in the world is a really strong player, and I think I just have to go out there and play my best and play well. 

 Q. Could you express in your mind a little bit about Lorena Ochoa?
 MICHELLE WIE: Obviously she's one of the best players out there. I just think she's really nice, as well. I've gotten to play a couple of practice rounds with her and got to know her a little bit. She's just really cool. She's an awesome person and a really good player.

 Q. I was reading some quotes from you that you are a more happy person right now. Can you describe for me what you mean to be more happy now than you were before? And the question is, how is Stanford helping you to share your life with golf? 
 MICHELLE WIE: Well, I guess growing up and just I've been through like a weird phase, a kind of growing up phase, just ups and downs. I feel like I've come to terms with my crazy life. I've just come to terms that my life isn't going to be perfect all the time. 
 I've just been stressing about it a lot less. You know, golf is just a game, and life, if you're not happy, then it's not worth it, whatever you're doing. I just try to find joys in other things and I enjoy to do other things, as well. You know, life's been pretty good. I've been pretty fortunate. Just been trying to find the good things and realize that I am fortunate. 
 But I think Stanford, also, is very helpful; that it does cause a lot of stress in my life at times, but I think the friends definitely makeup for it and the life experience that I gain from it. 

 Q. Having played here now with the best players in the world, where do you see that your game needs to be? What specific areas?
 MICHELLE WIE: It's hard to say. It changes every day, what I need to work on. I just feel like overall, I just have to put things together better. 
 You know, by playing -- there's four rounds in a tournament. If I can just get my all four rounds to be a little more consistent with one another, I think it would be great. I think I just have to be a little bit better and hopefully just get a little more lucky. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Michelle, thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT