NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MONACO R.V.
October 2, 2009
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DANA GROSS-RHODE: Michelle, thank you for joining you us. Another great round today. You have yourself in contention and only a couple strokes out of the lead. This course seems to be setting up okay for you.
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, it's a fun golf course. You know, ha d a lot of fun out there today. It was a little tougher conditions. You know, it felt like the wind were a little stronger. 
 But, you know, gotta do a lot of work in the next couple days.
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Questions for Michelle. 

 Q. There was a threat of rain coming into today. It ended up being nice. How did the weather affect your game today?
 MICHELLE WIE: Well, you know, it was blowing pretty -- I mean, it was blowing a little harder today than it was yesterday. 
 But, you know, the weather was really nice. We got lucky. 

 Q. I see you're wearing the color of the day. What exactly does that mean to you? 
 MICHELLE WIE: Well, you know, I think cancer in general, you know, it affects a lot of people's lives. I think breast cancer in general -- specifically, it affects women.
 So, you know, I think we have to do whatever we can to raise awareness. You know, I do believe that someone smart enough will find a cure. 
 You know, it just affects a lot of people. I feel like if we need can raise awareness one person at a time, then, you know, maybe we will find a cure. 

 Q. How did today contrast to yesterday? What was different? 
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, it felt like I didn't put in the long shots as close as yesterday. Um, but still felt pretty good on my round. You know, solid -- I hit solid shots out there, but I just didn't get them as close to the holes as I wanted them to. 
 I left a lot of putts out. I felt like I should have made a lot more putts today. But, you know, putting in the afternoon is always more difficult than putting in the mornings because you have a lot more bumps in the way and stuff. 
 But, you know, I'm pretty happy with the way I played. But like I said, there's a lot more work to be done in the next couple days.

 Q. Is it encouraging to you that you have been so close and you're about ready to break through on this course that you do have two more days to work on it?
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, you know, I feel good about having two more days. I'm glad that it's a four-day event. 

 Q. This is your second day on the course. Is there anything particularly that stands out as being difficult for you?
 MICHELLE WIE: Um, I mean, I think it's just you have to be in play. There's a lot bunkers out there. There's a lot of little undulations and all that. So you have to hit solid shots in the middle of the fairway, you know, hit it on the greens and give yourself some easy putts, because you can have some long putts out here. 

 Q. Do you have any connection with the rain gods? 
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, I just did a rain dance before I came out, so I got it covered. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: That you all very much for joining us. Thank you, Michelle. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT