LORENA OCHOA INVITATIONAL BY BANAMEX AND CORONA LIGHT
November 14, 2009
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Let's do your card. Birdie 1.  
 MICHELLE WIE: I hit 5-wood, and then I hit a sand wedge and I made about a 20-foot putt.   
 I hit a 5-wood and a gap wedge to about like 30-some feet.   
 7, I hit 5-wood and then sand wedge and about a 20-foot putt.   
 I hit driver and I hit a gap wedge over the green, and then I don't know what happened, but it went back to the other side of the green and I 2-putted.   
 13, I hit a 9-iron to about four feet.   
 5-wood into the bunker, and then into another bunker and I kind of punched it out. Almost made the putt from about 30-some feet.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Michelle, you're tied for the lead at 10-under par with Cristie Kerr. The last time you were tied was at the SBS this year. If you would, just talk about your emotions right now and how your round went and tomorrow, what you are thinking about?   
 MICHELLE WIE: Obviously there were a couple of loose shots out there, so I'm thinking about what I'm going to do for tomorrow. And you know, I'm really excited for tomorrow and hopefully I can go out and win.   
  
  Q. Your putting was very good today. What do you think was like the hardest thing for you today?   
 MICHELLE WIE: I think the hardest thing for me was, like I said, there was a couple of loose shots. I didn't get in the fairway a couple of times and it kind of cost me some.   
 But I feel like I hit most of my shots solid there. There were a couple of misses on a couple of holes but I'll try to make some more birdies tomorrow. I felt like I made some birdies early on and just couldn't get anything going after that.   
  
  Q. The reaction of the crowd on 18, you were cheered by the locals, I don't know if you are used to these kind of crowds; is it different from what you are used to?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I think it's different. On the other holes, we could hear them chanting on 18, like singing, off and on what it was, but something to Lorena. It was kind of cool.   
 They were just really riled up and they are really excited to be here, which makes us really happy to play in front of them. They are a great crowd, and they love great shots and it kind of motivates me to hit great shots when there's a great crowd around. It's exciting playing in front of them.   
  
  Q. You are right now tied for the lead with Cristie Kerr. Tomorrow, are you going to be feeling the pressure, tied for first place?   
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, for sure. I think I'm just going to play the same way I've always played and go out there and try my hardest and try not to make any expectations of myself. Just go out there like it's another day and try to play as hard as I can and try not to make any bogeys tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Tell me about the 7th hole, you played your second shot very, very well, almost made an eagle but you got out of that hole without a birdie and you could be leading now. Can you talk about the 7th hole? You had like 90 yards.   
 MICHELLE WIE: I felt like it almost went in but backspin quite a bit which was unfortunate. I hit the putt really well but it happens I guess.   
  
  Q. Could you talk about what it would mean for you to have your first win in México?   
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, it would be really great, the people have been great and hopefully that will happen tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT