NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MONACO R.V.
October 4, 2009
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MICHELLE WIE: It got interesting, the back nine, I would have to say.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 MICHELLE WIE: Well, I sprained my ankle about a month and a half ago. I sprained it on Thursday, stepped in a hole. Then I had a really bad lie on 10 and I just turned for the worst.   
 But you know, it's was fine. It was just hard walking a lot. It's just not the flattest golf course. I'm really proud of the way I grinded it out out there, especially the back nine. There was a lot of points where I felt like I had to stop and catch my breath and keep going.   
 But, you know, I kept moving forward, so I felt really good about it.  
  
  Q. Even with the ankle, did you expect to gain so much ground back nine?  
 MICHELLE WIE: I think that was the beauty of it almost. You know, I was -- like my ankle was the only thing I could think about. One step forward, another step forward. That's all I was thinking on the back nine.   
 You know, score wasn't really a factor. I just wanted to finish.  
  
  Q. Is it like a chronic pain or just a flashing of pain? Just how bad is it?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Well, you know, it got interesting on the back nine. You know, it just kind of -- you know, it just kind of like spurts of really bad pain. It just was uncomfortable.   
 Like I said, I kept moving forward and I kept walking, and I'm glad I made it through all four rounds. So I'm very happy about not playing golf for the next week.  
  
  Q. You're at -14. Last I checked, you were tied for second. Tell me about your day, your reaction to how you played today.   
 MICHELLE WIE: I couldn't get things going at first, you know, but I felt like it was a good break on 5. I sat down for quite a bit on 5 tee box because of that wait, and I really think that helped me out.   
 You know, sitting down for a little bit being able to catch my breath kind of helped me out. You know, I had fun out there today. Hye Jung was really nice to play with. You know, I felt like we had a good rhythm out there today.  
  
  Q. You got like five birdies on the back nine; is that right?   
 MICHELLE WIE: I guess so. Like I said, all I was thinking about was putting my right foot forward, my left, and so on and so forth. That was all I was thinking really.   
  
  Q. Being able to post 14 with golfers still out there and weather coming in, is that something that...  
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, I really don't know. Feel like I've been in this position one too many times. One can only hope. But I played my best out there and tried my hardest. I did what I could do.   
  
  Q. So are you gonna stay limber in case there is a playoff?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Um, I don't know. Anything can happen. They told me to stick around, so I guess I'll just stick around.   
  
  Q. Tell me about Copenhagen. Are you going to Denmark?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Yes. I'm really excited and I feel really honored that I gt chosen to go over there. I hope I do us proud.   
 Hopefully, you know, golf will be parts of the Olympics. I think if that happens, it would just would be the greatest thing that ever could happen to golf.  
  
  Q. What are you doing there?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Just lobbying.   
  
  Q. Asking the IOC to include golf?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah.  
  
  Q. In which Olympics, 2016 or...   
 MICHELLE WIE: 2016.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT