CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2009
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE: Okay. Thank you very much for joining us at the CN Canadian Women's Open. Michelle Wie, you're here as a Tour member. You've had two phenomenal weeks of golf. How are you feeling right now coming into this week?   
 MICHELLE WIE: I'm very excited. I love coming to Canada, and I got to see the golf course today, and it's absolutely beautiful. It's some really scenic walks, scenic views. It's a little tough to walk, I might add. Maybe I'm just lazy.   
  
  Q. It's been a long couple weeks.   
 MICHELLE WIE: It's been a long couple weeks, but I'm really excited to be here. I love coming here.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Great. We'll take questions, please.  
  
  Q. Michelle, how much do you think the Solheim Cup is going to help you in your career, just the success you had there?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Well, you know, I think it just gave me a lot of confidence, because there was a lot of pressure that week, you know, just because you're representing your country and a huge amount of pressure.   
 And I think, you know, being able to compete that well and play that well under that much pressure just showed me what I can do, and it gave me a lot of confidence, but you know, I had a lot of fun.   
  
  Q. Michelle, I'm wondering what it is specifically that you like about coming and playing this tournament and Canada.   
 MICHELLE WIE: Well, I just like Canada. It feels really relaxed here, like everyone is really nice, and it's really pretty.   
 It's a little bit cooler in the summer. But you know, I like it. It's pretty cool. Everyone just seems really nice here, and it just seems really relaxed. Like they gave us a nice cowboy hat at the tournament. I was pretty stoked.   
  
  Q. Michelle, welcome to Calgary. On the PGA TOUR, the Canadian Open isn't a top event like it used to be, but the field for this event, the purse, this feels like a big event, a major type event. Is that how it's viewed by yourself and fellow Tour members?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah. I think everyone loves to come back here. The tournament is so well run. I mean the food is phenomenal here, and they always pick the best golf courses. So it's nice because every year the golf course is different, so we get to play the best golf courses in Canada.   
 So I think they run the tournament really well, and the fans are really excited, which makes us really excited to come. And you know, it's just a really nice tournament to come to.   
  
  Q. Michelle, does the altitude here just south of Calgary affect your shot making? And what is it about this course that suits your game?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Well, I mean coming out here just this morning, the balls didn't really go that far, even without altitude, I have to add.   
 But it's a nice golf course, you know. The fairways are -- from tee to green is really nice, and the greens are really tricky. You have a lot of slope on them. So they can make it really hard, or you know, fairly easy. Just depends on where they put the flags.   
  
  Q. Michelle, so much has been written and said about your folks in handling your career. Has it ever bothered you that that's your parents people are talking about? Has it been the source of, I don't know, having to grow up in the public eye, in fact, having your parents there and all that's been said?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah. You know, it's hard to hear stuff being said about your parents. I don't think anyone could hear anything, you know. You know, so it's tough, you know.   
 I just don't like when people write stuff when they don't know what they're talking about. But you know, people write what they want to write. And you know, everyone has their opinion and everyone's entitled to it. But I don't think that gives the right to bash anyone's parents.   
  
  Q. Michelle, winning is everything. Do you think you're getting closer and closer to it?  
 MICHELLE WIE: I do. I feel like I'm very close, you know, but there's a huge difference between coming in second and coming in first. That leap is a huge leap.   
 And you know, I'm working at it. I'm really trying to become a better player so I can win tournaments and stuff. But you know, I'm having fun trying to get there, and I think it's going to mean a lot to me once I do.   
  
  Q. Just a follow-up to that. You're only 19. Maybe people forget that you are only 19.   
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah. I guess so.   
  
  Q. Hi, Michelle. When the pressure gets going on you, what do you do to keep your focus? Is there anything in particular that keeps you sort of grounded and focused on the game?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah. You know, I just focus on the excitement of it and try and enjoy the pressure. Like at the Solheim, like I really enjoyed the pressure, you know, like when I had to make a putt that was really important to win or lose, you know, you're just excited and you want to -- if you excel at it, it feels really good, so you kind of think about how good you're going to feel once you do it, and I just try to get excited for good shots and not think about bad ones.   
  
  Q. There's a lot of young girls out here, they know your names and they're asking for autographs. What would you say -- you're probably not that much older than a lot of them, but what would you say to these girls who are one day looking to be here where you are?  
 MICHELLE WIE: I'd just tell them to have fun. I definitely went through a period where it wasn't fun, and it's just not fun.   
 So try to enjoy yourself and have fun with it, just try to do your hardest and don't put too much pressure on yourself.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Thank you all very much. Michelle, good luck this weekend.   
 MICHELLE WIE: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT