LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 11, 2018
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How did it feel out there today?  
MICHELLE WIE: Good.  Breezy out there.  I'm happy with the way I finished.  Played consistently out there, and hopefully over the next couple days make a couple more birdies.   
 Q.  Breezy, Tradewinds.  How difficult is that?  
MICHELLE WIE: You know, I feel like back in the day I was really used to it because I played every week.  Now that I'm living on the mainland and come back I get a little surprised by it.   
Yeah, it makes it a little bit tougher.  But it's fun.  I like playing in the wind.  I think this golf course should be played in the wind.   
 Q.  After the 6th hole you dropped your club after teeing off and were holding your wrist.  How is that?  
MICHELLE WIE: Oh, it's okay.  It's fine.  I just got in a weird position as I was hitting the ball so it hurt a little bit.  Yeah, it's okay.   
 Q.  It's only a Wednesday; you already have quite the crowd around you.  Does that hype you up?  Put pressure on you?  I know it's a yearly thing for you, but do you get used to it ever?  
MICHELLE WIE: Oh, I love it.  I love seeing familiar faces in the crowd.  A lot my friends came out to watch, so that was really of fun.   
Yeah, I love playing in front of the hometown crowd.  To me, playing in Hawaii, my hometown, is a very special feeling, something that I cherish and look forward to every year.   
So it's going to be a very fun week.   
 Q.  Three former champs in one group to start off the week.  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah.   
 Q.  How does that push you guys?  How does that work for you?  
MICHELLE WIE: I kind of forget about it actually.  It's pretty cool thinking about it.  I like playing with Cristie and Sei Young, so fun day out there today.   
 Q.  Any dialog between you and Cristie?  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah.   
 Q.  What kind of things does she tell you?  
MICHELLE WIE: Just normal stuff, normal Cristie Kerr stuff.   
 Q.  You mentioned your wrist a few weeks ago; inner ear issues.  How is your health overall?  
MICHELLE WIE: Much better.  I finally got -- feel like I'm just kicking it.  Didn't really do much over the last week.  Just slept and took some meds and tried to get past it.   
Definitely feel a lot better.   
 Q.  You showed a little bit of frustration at the end there.  The greens reacting the way you expect them to?  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah.  I mean, they're tricky with the wind.  You have a lot of variables:  grain, wind, slope.  I feel like I hit good putts, I hit good shots.   
Just got to stay patient out there and seize the opportunities when it comes.   
 Q.  Did you feel unlucky on 6?  
MICHELLE WIE: Oh, yeah.  It was like an inch from being perfect.  That's just golf though.  Stuff like that happens.  You just have to brush it off and move on to the next.   
I feel like I finished strong, gave myself opportunities, and that's all I can ask for.   
 Q.  You mentioned staying patient.  Is that a big thing when the wind is blowing like this?  
MICHELLE WIE: For sure.  I feel happy with the way I played today.  Got to go out there tomorrow, and hopefully make some more birdies.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT