LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
June 2, 2009
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JASON TAYLOR: Welcome, Michelle. 
 MICHELLE WIE: Thank you. 
 JASON TAYLOR: You are in your rookie year this year. You have a couple of top-10 finishes already this season. If you would, just talk a little bit about the year you've had and just being here in Springfield this week. 
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, it's been a great year so far. It's been a lot of fun, traveling different places, playing in tournaments I haven't played in before, getting to know more people. It's been a great year. It's been really enjoyable. Looking forward to the rest of the year. 
 Second time in Springfield. Always great to come back here. People are just so nice, so welcoming. The course is in really good shape. It's just exciting. 
 JASON TAYLOR: Questions for Michelle. 

 Q. The course last year, it was really dry, really hard. This year we've got a lot more green, a little bit more lush, had a lot more rain. Does it fit your game better this year?
 MICHELLE WIE: Well, I think, first of all, the biggest difference I saw out there was they lengthened a lot of holes. It was a lot drier last year. But, you know, they did a good job last year of keeping it still green and stuff. 
 But definitely this year it's in really good condition. 

 Q. The obvious question is, do you have any bad feelings about coming back to Springfield? It wasn't the best departure for you last year. 
 MICHELLE WIE: No, not at all. You know, it was a hard lesson learned. I really enjoyed playing here, minus the little oppsy that I had at the end. I had a fun time playing here. So there's no hard feelings. 
 There was more excitement. It was more like this time around I really want to show people. It just made me even look forward to the tournament even more because, you know, that unfortunate ending last year, it made me want to come back even more, try it once again. 

 Q. You mentioned the course is longer this year. The par 5, 13, used to be reachable in two for a lot of players. Is that a hole that's still going to be reachable in two for you and some of the players or is that more reachable in three now?
 MICHELLE WIE: I think it's possible to reach it in two. It just depends on the wind and the conditions. But I think it's a definite doable. 

 Q. You've played a lot of golf, a lot of tournaments. Is it weird with this being technically your first rookie season? Is there a different feel to the full-time schedule, being full go?
 MICHELLE WIE: I guess I don't feel like a complete rookie in a sense. But at the same time I do because it's my first time that I get to play more than six times a year. So it's really exciting. 
 I feel like I'm part of something. Just being able to go to places that I haven't been to before. Last year, only being able to play six, or every other year, you play only a select couple, then you have to watch the rest on TV. Just being out here, playing every week, is great. 

 Q. Switching gears a little bit. There's been some talk in the LPGA about the importance of social networking, sites like Twitter. Do you have any social networking sites? If so, what are their roles for you?
 MICHELLE WIE: I'm actually going to do a shameless plug out here. I am officially on Twitter now. So put the world out there, everyone should follow the Michelle Wie. 'The Christina Kim' told me to put 'the' in front of it. If everyone can follow me, it would be great. Hopefully I'll try to entertain some people. 
 You know, it's great because of new technology. It's not just about the newspaper. It's not just about the news. There's the whole worldwide web that is untouched. So I think it's great, going into new areas. Hopefully it will be a good area to reach out to people. 

 Q. When you created your Twitter page, was that as a result of the LPGA kind of encouraging players to do that or did that come on your own?
 MICHELLE WIE: It was more Christina Kim (laughter). When she gets on something, she gets on something. But it was great. I still am learning how to use it. It's a lot more complicated than I thought. It's a whole new language about twitter. You can twee. It's complicated. I should know more about this, but... 
 I think it's great. There's a lot of LPGA players on that site now. It's a great way for the fans to really connect with the people because it's not just, you know, statements we prepare for the media, it's our day-to-day what we're doing, what we're feeling, what we want people to know. It's fun facts. I like to put trivia up there. It just shows a different side. 

 Q. You played very well here last year. You could use your driver a lot last year. A couple of holes have been lengthened up a little bit. Generally does it seem to be playing a lot like it did last year, where you can use that driver a lot?
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I think it's the same golf course so it's playing pretty much the same. But it's definitely a lot longer on a couple of holes. But it's a great golf course. You have to hit it well off the tee. I think it's a driver, 3-wood hole, just depending on the conditions. 

 Q. Considering how close you've come a bunch of times, does it surprise you you haven't yet won on the tour? Do you think maybe now that you are doing it full-time it will start picking up?
 MICHELLE WIE: Well, I think winning is an interesting matter. You can shoot a really good round. You can shoot the best round you ever had, but there's 148 -- 444 other players out there trying to get the trophy. 
 It's a work in progress for me. I'm having so much fun trying to get that prize. It's something that I really want. It's something that I really desire. 
 So, you know, I'm working really hard to get it. Hopefully soon the stars will align and everything will work out. 

 Q. An exceptional field here this week. With the LPGA coming up next week, with a major coming up, do you feel this is I don't want to say a rehearsal, but same kind of atmosphere with so many good players here this week?
 MICHELLE WIE: I don't like to think of it that way. I just even forgot that McDonald's is next week. I'm just focusing on this week. Maybe even not what I'm going to do tomorrow, it's what I'm going to do today, what I'm going to do right now. Right now is the most important part. You can't control the future. You can't control the past. What you do right now is most important. I'm learning that. I'm learning to try to stay in the present. It's not the easiest at times. But I'm learning how to do it. 

 Q. I don't know where you're at right now in the points standings. The Solheim Cup, is that something you think about at all?
 MICHELLE WIE: No, it's definitely a goal of mine. For sure it's a very important goal for me. When I got to play in the Curtis Cup, it was one of the most amazing experiences I ever had, representing my country. Right after I got through Q School, you know, I was talking with Meg. We were definitely talking about the Solheim Cup, how I really want to play well this year and really get into the team. 
 I'm really excited for that. 

 Q. Do you have a different caddie this week as opposed to your usual guy?
 MICHELLE WIE: Well, trying out a couple guys just to see. Gary is helping me out these past two weeks. It's been a really great pleasure working with him. Just trying to find someone. 

 Q. What is his name? 
 MICHELLE WIE: Gary Matthews. 
 JASON TAYLOR: Thanks, Michelle. 
 MICHELLE WIE: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT