EVIAN MASTERS PRESENTED BY SOCIETE GENERALE
July 22, 2009
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE: Michelle, thanks for joining us at the Evian Masters. This is your first time as an LPGA professional playing in the event. You've had very good performances here in the past. Talk about drawing on those memories this year.  
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, it's weird coming back here, even though it's my first year's as an LPGA Tour player. I just have so many good memories here playing since I was, I don't really know, but a long time ago.  
 So it's always a pleasure to come back. Since I didn't play here last year, it's almost like a new-found appreciation for coming back here. I think I've gotten really taken away by the views and the people and everything. I'm really excited for tomorrow and really excited for the tournament.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Great. Questions for Michelle.   
  
  Q. What do you consider being your best result or achievement this year so far?   
 MICHELLE WIE: I don't know. I've had a couple good top 5 finishes, but nothing really stands out. I guess I had a good tournament in Hawaii and a couple good spurts here and there. I think the thing that was the most recent was Jamie Farr. The last ten holes were really where I really got things together. It's just a good sign of what can happen.   
 So I'm not really sure what my best achievement is this year. Still working at it so I can play better.   
  
  Q. What are your plans for the rest of the season, apart of winning this one, of course?   
 MICHELLE WIE: Yes, that's definitely in the plans. British Open next week, and then hopefully, cross my fingers, I can play really well this week and next week and get enough points to play in the Solheim Cup. That is a really big goal for me.   
 After that, most of the tour events, you know like Safeway and all that. So pretty exciting year being the first year out here. I get to play a lot more tournaments and get to play some places I haven't played in, so it's really exciting.  
  
  Q. Any plans to one of these days to join the men's tournament again?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Um, I think it's definitely something that I've been thinking about. Obviously it's something that I've always wanted to do. But I think right now, at this stage, you know, I just gotta work on what I'm doing right now.   
 It's definitely something I want to do in the future, and definitely not out of the question. I think right now just gotta focus on what I'm doing right now. Then, if I feel up to it, I mean, Hey I do want to do it. I do have something itching inside me that makes me want to do it. I think it has to be the right time, and I really have to feel like it's right for me.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT