MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 5, 2009
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JASON TAYLOR: Welcome to Kingsmill, and thank you for joining us in the media center. If you would, talk about the rookie year you've had so far and just being here this week.
 MICHELLE WIE: It's been great this year. Even though I've played a lot of LPGA tournaments before, it's definitely a different feeling. It's been great playing almost every week, and it's been a lot of fun, especially this past weekend, we had the huge LPGA Sunday, my first one as an LPGA player. It was very interesting and I learned a lot of stuff. I feel great about the future. I feel great about the season, and I'm definitely having a lot of fun. 

 Q. You said that you've played on the LPGA before obviously, but what is different? 
 MICHELLE WIE: I don't know, I can't really pinpoint. But I think the fact that I know that I can play more than six every year; before, there were only six tournaments I can play in. But now I can pick and choose and see which ones fit my schedule and when I went to play in. 
 So I feel like it's a play-when-I-want card, and it's great playing every week. It's great to be playing out here and it's a lot of fun.

 Q. What makes this tournament one that fits what you want to do?
 MICHELLE WIE: Well, I always love playing back here. It's a great tournament. The people are so nice here. It's a really well-run tournament. The course is in great condition. It's always a really fun week to be back to; so I'm really glad to be able to come back again this year.

 Q. Does that play-when-you-want-to card give you an extreme comfort level and is that reflected in your game?
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, for sure, I think it definitely gives me a greater comfort level. I think it just allows me to play more, which is exactly what I want to do. It's been a lot of fun, and I've gained a lot of experience with playing a lot, and just been learning, being able to learn out here.

 Q. The Hall of Famers have all won at least one major here; what does that tell you about this tournament?
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, it's one of the best tournaments out here. Like I said, it's really well run. The people are really nice here, and if you look at the past winners, it's all Hall of Famers like you said, and you definitely have to bring your A Game here. I'm just going to try to play my hardest here to hopefully maybe join them.
 I feel really grateful that I'm here this week, and I'm just really looking forward to it. I'm going to play my hardest and try to do the best I can.

 Q. How you're played in the past -- inaudible -- it's well documented, is there anything you would change? 
 MICHELLE WIE: Well, I definitely learned a lot, but I'm at the point where I'm done looking at the past. I'm done trying to analyze the past and see whether I could have done better. It's just really no use. You learn from the past, you take what you need to take, and you move forward. 
 Right now, I'm just really trying to look not so much even to the future, and just trying to focus on the present and try to do the best I can in each moment and see where it takes me and have fun. I think that's the most important thing. 

 Q. Outside the Ropes, do you feel not necessarily pressure, but do you see an opportunity to maybe help the Tour? 
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, for sure, I think it's a great honor and it's a great privilege to be able to -- when you play well, to have people watch you play. I think that it's so much more fun when people are actually watching you play, and each shot counts. 
 You know, I definitely think it's an opportunity, definitely Outside the Ropes the LPGA has talked about, it makes me more excited about the future and makes me excited about where the LPGA is headed. I'm really happy and grateful to be part of it, and I think it's going to be great.

 Q. As an athlete how far does it take to develop consistency not only round to round by week-to-week?
 MICHELLE WIE: I think it's pretty tough. Every golfer knows that some days it's on, some days it's off, and we want the off days to be as closest to the on days as we can.
 I think physically I've been working really hard at it. I've been practicing a lot, been playing a lot, and up to a certain point, you have to let it go and accept it, and just try your hardest and try your best at each moment.

 Q. Talk about Lorena Ochoa, showing how consistent she is at being No. 1. 
 MICHELLE WIE: She's the No. 1 player and I think she's really great at what she does. I think shows a great player. It's really impressive the things she's done. 

 Q. Rain today, pretty soggy track, supposed to hang around through Thursday. If the course is wet, what kind of player could fair well out there, and how will that affect your approach?
 MICHELLE WIE: The person with the best rain gear, I guess. It was pretty soggy out there today. Even though it wasn't really raining much this morning, it was a really wet feeling.
 The course has held up pretty well so far, surprisingly. I thought it was going to be a lot more wet than it is. But this golf course drains really well, and they have kept this golf course in such a great condition that I think even without the rain, the golf course people have really done well with the greens and the fairways and keeping it in really great shape.
 I think just anyone who plays well this week will do well. Got to get it in the hole somehow. 
 JASON TAYLOR: Thank you, Michelle. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT