KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 2, 2009
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Michelle, three birdies, two bogeys today, -1 under, a good start for the first major championship of the year? 
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah. For sure. I was a little shaky at the beginning, but I was able to calm myself, and I made some good shots, and I feel confident with that.

 Q. The front side, back side, a little sketchy with the driver. You must have made an adjustment because you drove it much better on the second half. 
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah. Like I said, a little shaky coming in. I felt really comfortable on the Back 9. 

 Q. Golf course in excellent shape. Greens are a little firm, but yet they will hold a shot, a good shot. 
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah. For sure. I've never seen this golf course in better condition. They've done a great job here. 

 Q. You've had success here. 
 MICHELLE WIE: I don't know. I haven't been looking that far. 

 Q. Michelle, Tseng is known for her power game. Your short game saved you on that first nine. Can you talk about some of those par saves?
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah. Hopefully tomorrow I can do the same thing.

 Q. Do you remember a round with so many six- to eight-foot putts?
 MICHELLE WIE: I know. It's so odd, but thankfully they went in, and my stroke is good, so hopefully tomorrow it'll be for birdie. 
 Q. What are you doing differently with the drivers from the front to the back?
 MICHELLE WIE: I just think I shot where I had confidence, like I hit one good shot and it clicked, and I just kept going.

 Q. What shot was it where it clicked?
 MICHELLE WIE: I think it was the 16th hole. 

 Q. Talk about feeling the jitters. You've played in plenty of majors. What was different about this one that maybe caused some jitters?
 MICHELLE WIE: Just back at this course. This is my first major in a while, and it was excitement, but just a little jittery, but I calmed it down pretty quickly.

 Q. You could have been four or five over today if you didn't make so many of those six to eight-footers, so that's gotta give you some confidence at least. 
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah. I feel very confident and grateful that they went in. 
 Hopefully, like I said, tomorrow hopefully that will be for birdie.

 Q. Was it a different feeling than in a lot of majors?
 MICHELLE WIE: No, not really. You always have the same jittery feeling when you play in the majors.

 Q. How do you feel about being one of the first groups off? I mean do you prefer that, especially having some nerves as opposed to --
 MICHELLE WIE: No, not really. 
 I think it was good because the weather was perfect. It wasn't too cold. It wasn't like the 60s that we had last week (laughs). 
 But it was perfect conditions, the greens were rolling very nicely this morning. But tomorrow will be good. I'm going to get some sleep in.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT