SBS OPEN AT TURTLE BAY
February 13, 2009
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: We'll do your card first since we have more time today.
 MICHELLE WIE: Okay.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Birdie on 10? 
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah. I hit a driver and then I hit an 8-iron, and I had like 30 feet in there.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Okay. Bogey on 17.
 MICHELLE WIE: I hit a 3-wood, and then I hit a 9-iron, and then I had it at like 50 feet, and I 3-putted. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Okay. Birdie 2? 
 MICHELLE WIE: I hit my driver left, hit 5-wood on the left and then kind of was on the right. I chipped in from the right side. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: How far was the chip? 
 MICHELLE WIE: Probably around like 35 feet, 30, 40 feet.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Okay. Birdie at 3? 
 MICHELLE WIE: Driver and then a 2-wood, kind of pulled it to the left, hit a sand wedge to about nine feet. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Four? 
 MICHELLE WIE: Hit a 7-iron, probably about like a 45-foot putt. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: And bogey on 18.
 MICHELLE WIE: Hit a 9-iron and 3-putted from about 45 feet.
 MIKE SCANLAN: All right. Michelle, a great round, especially in that wind today. You're on top of the leaderboard after the morning wave. If you would, just talk about the conditions and how you felt today.
 MICHELLE WIE: It was pretty tough. I thought the wind was blowing pretty hard yesterday. But it was pretty tough conditions out there today, but I just tried to play patiently and tried to not be too greedy.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Questions for Michelle? 

 Q. Thank you. I think you used the phrase you thought this year was a new beginning. How has that helped you make your way around the course the last couple days?
 MICHELLE WIE: Well, I just forgot everything about the past. When I started the season, it's like a new start to my career. 
 So I just play without any kind of pressure, just play out there, try to have fun and try to be patient out there. 

 Q. What are your key thoughts on the wind?
 MICHELLE WIE: I'm impatient. I think I'm just repeating that. I think that's the most important thing. 
 There were a couple of hard pins out there today, and I just tried not to be greedy, just hit solid shots and that's it.

 Q. Does the wind mess with your swing out there?
 MICHELLE WIE: I guess the problem about tempo. Tried to keep the same tempo. It does kind of mess with that a little bit, but it did have a good spin on it.

 Q. What club did you hit on 7 into the green?
 MICHELLE WIE: Hit a lob wedge.

 Q. Is it exciting to be back in contention?
 MICHELLE WIE: It feels good. I mean I didn't really feel like I'm on top of the leaderboard or anything like that. 
 I'm just glad I played a good round today. I'm just really excited to come back home and play in front of my home crowd again. So I think tomorrow will be another fun day. 

 Q. Are you studying while you're here? Do you have homework?
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah. I'm trying to. It's hard. But I'll probably get some done today. I did some the other day. But I'll try and get some done. 
 I have a mid term today, which I moved back to Wednesday, so I've got to start studying for that. So it's been interesting.

 Q. How do you study Korean drama?
 MICHELLE WIE: We've watched it, I guess. 

 Q. Any other expectations other than winning?
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah. I just wanted to have fun out here and to just be patient, and just try my hardest out here. 
 I think that's all that I have of myself. If I try my hardest and if things go my way, then great. If they don't, I know that I tried my hardest. I think tomorrow -- I really tried to play hardest out there today and do the best I can for each one and I want to do the same thing tomorrow.

 Q. What would your first win mean?
 MICHELLE WIE: It would be great. I just don't want to get that engrained in my head, you know. Some of the others were asking me that, and it's still a day left, and I just want to do the same thing, play as hard as I can, and obviously it would mean a lot. So I'm just going to try and have fun out there. 

 Q. Did you think your game would be so in-tune this early?
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah. I did put a lot of hours in. So I mean I guess -- I mean I don't really know how to explain that, but sometimes it works and it clicks all together and sometimes it doesn't. But I did put in a lot of long hard hours.

 Q. Did the birdie on hole 2 really get things started?
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah. For sure. I mean all day today I was hitting such good shots and such good putts and didn't really get in the hole, and finally it left the door open, so it felt really refreshing.

 Q. I think it helped that you hit a woman with your tee shot.
 MICHELLE WIE: Oh, did I? Oh, I didn't know. Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't know that. I feel bad now. 

 Q. You only made birdie on one par-5 today. Was that a product of the conditions out there? 
 MICHELLE WIE: I didn't really -- I guess I didn't really perform as well on par-5s today. It was like I wasn't as greedy, like I had the same game plan, but unfortunately some putts didn't go in like I wanted them to.

 Q. Does it feel different to be in contention this time?
 MICHELLE WIE: Well, I mean another thing is I don't really feel -- I mean I'm not like thinking I'm on top of the leaderboard right now. I'm thinking about things that I want to accomplish before I leave the golf course today, and I'll just -- like I have a game plan tomorrow. 
 I can't really control what other people shoot today. I can't control the conditions for the rest of the day. I know what I shot today. I know what I have to do to improve for tomorrow, and that's what I'm going to focus on right now.

 Q. A couple missed putts in the end of the round. Any problems you can identify?
 MICHELLE WIE: I mean it's hard putting in the wind. When the ball's chasing you, you can't really grind your club. So I think I'm going to practice that, try to get that more comfortable.

 Q. Are your long putts more comfortable than the short ones?
 MICHELLE WIE: Not really. I just missed a couple of shots. I didn't really push them, I don't think. They just didn't go in.

 Q. Could you have shot 65 today?
 MICHELLE WIE: Usually. Yeah. I think so. Yeah, I think it was the final from what I shot yesterday and what I did today. 
 I just feel that I left a lot out there, and hopefully I'll pick them up tomorrow.

 Q. Are you satisfied with your round today?
 MICHELLE WIE: I have to say I am satisfied, I guess, because I did shoot a fine round, but I feel like a little bit -- I felt like I left a couple shots out there, especially the short putts, so that's in my mind right now. 
 But I feel good about today. I was patient. It was hard conditions, and I really kept my cool, wasn't greedy on all the shots. I had a lot of fun out there, so I'm just going to focus on that. 

 Q. When is the last time you were in this position?
 MICHELLE WIE: I don't know. I guess so. 

 Q. Was there one shot in the wind that you were particularly happy with?
 MICHELLE WIE: I did a long shot back there that I felt like I executed very well. It just didn't go, like you would hit perfect shots and still be 40 feet from the hole. So it was one of those days where you hit the shot exactly where you wanted to and sometimes it's like 40 feet long and sometimes the wind just blows. So it was windy conditions out there today. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: All right, Michelle. Thanks so much for coming in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT