SBS OPEN AT TURTLE BAY
February 14, 2009
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Do your card quick. Birdie on 4.  
 MICHELLE WIE: I hit a 8-iron, then I had about 20 feet.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Birdie, 9.  
 MICHELLE WIE: I hit a 3-wood and a 3-wood, then I chipped to about 18 feet and made it.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: 11.  
 MICHELLE WIE: Hit it to the water right; hit a 5-wood over the green, kind of duffed my chip; putted to about nine feet and made the putt.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: And bogey 17.  
 MICHELLE WIE: Hit my 5-wood onto the bunker then plugged it into the bunker; and then kind of had like a 12-footer.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Okay. Michelle, second place in your first tournament as a member; not a bad way to start. Might be a little bit disappointed, but just take us through your day and how you feel right now.  
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, I felt like I played pretty solid, just had one bad hole that I just, you know, kind of was disappointed about.   
 But I guess there is a lot of positive things I can take from this week. You know, I shot pretty solidly in the wind in tough conditions. It was pretty tough out there today. And it's not a bad start. It's not what I, you know, wanted, outcome today, but it's just the beginning. And I think there's a lot more good stuff to come out of it.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Questions for Michelle?   
  
  Q. Do you feel like you had a lot of support out there today?  
 MICHELLE WIE: For sure. Like I said, there's a lot of familiar faces out there. And I just feel people rooting me on, and it felt great. It felt really -- I had a lot of fun today. It was really fun to be in that position and to, you know, be playing that well again.  
  
  Q. Did you pick up anything from Angela out there today?   
 MICHELLE WIE: She had a really good ball flight into the wind. She made a lot of good putts and is a very good player. I learned a lot of things from her, playing with her today.   
 And, you know, the more good players I play with, the more game experience I get. And, like, different players can, you know, give me different kind of, not like -- I can learn different stuff from different players. And I learned a lot from Angela today.  
  
  Q. Did the double bogey on No. 11 affect you the rest of the day?   
 MICHELLE WIE: It didn't really affect me in any kind of way. I mean, I was just more motivated to make more birdies after that. The conditions were tough. My putts didn't drop in. Things didn't go my way, unfortunately.  
  
  Q. What did you tell yourself?   
 MICHELLE WIE: Well I had a score I wanted to get to and, you know, I just kept playing towards it. You know, do the same things. Just be patient. There's no need to get ahead of yourself. And I tried to keep playing along like I've always played.  
  
  Q. Was that a mis-hit on 11?   
 MICHELLE WIE: That was a mis-hit. Unfortunately, the wind was going really strong left to right, so any kind of left to right spin on it will just fly it way out to the right.  
  
  Q. Did you hit a hybrid?   
 MICHELLE WIE: I hit a 3-wood, yeah.  
  
  Q. When you missed the putt on 16 take a lot out of you?   
 MICHELLE WIE: No, it's too long.  
  
  Q. How far, about four feet?   
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I mean, it was weird. I didn't pull it or anything. It just didn't choose to go in the hole. Yeah, pretty much. I mean, just didn't go in. I didn't mis-hit it. I didn't -- it was just weird.  
  
  Q. What did you do to prepare last night?  
 MICHELLE WIE: I pretty much became a vegetable and just sat in front of the TV and just kind of just passed out. Tried to drink a lot of water. Had a nice dinner. And I just, you know, talked to some friends and just did the usual I guess. Nothing too special.  
  
  Q. You got a late start on Solheim Cup points. Your thoughts on trying to make the team?   
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah. It would be a great honor if I, you know, got to play on the team, and it's definitely a goal of mine. And I think it would be a lot of fun. And hopefully I'll get in.  
  
  Q. What is your confidence level right now?   
 MICHELLE WIE: I'd have to say it's pretty high. Every good shot that I hit I'm putting in the positive memory bank and gaining confidence a little bit by little bit.   
 I feel pretty good with my game. Obviously, right now I am a little disappointed, but I can take a lot of positive thoughts from this week. And I think I know exactly what to work on. I know, like, what I have to do to go to the next level. And I think this is just going to -- just missing the trophy by a little bit is going to motivate me to work even harder for the next one.  
  
  Q. They say you never get tired of winning, but what about finishing second?   
 MICHELLE WIE: I mean, obviously it's not like, I mean, it's not like I want to be second place all the time, you know. But I think it was a good start. I played solidly. And, like I said, it's just going to motivate me to work harder to go to the next level.  
  
  Q. You were in control at the turn. Did you start to play conservative?   
 MICHELLE WIE: Not really. I mean, when the wind blows that hard, you never know what's going to happen. I had a score in my mind I wanted to shoot. I can't control anything else. I can't control what the other players shoot. I just try to, you know, do the same thing as I always did, and be patient with myself.  
  
  Q. What did you think of Angela today?   
 MICHELLE WIE: I think she is a great player. She had a great ball flight into the wind today. I was very impressed with her low ball flight. There's not a lot of players that can do that. I was very impressed. Made a lot of good putts out there. She seemed very steady and very in control as well. I learned a lot from her playing today.  
  
  Q. What's your playing schedule like in the next few months?   
 MICHELLE WIE: I'm not sure yet, actually. I don't know. I have to look at it again.  
  
  Q. What score were you looking for today?   
 MICHELLE WIE: I was hoping she was helpful on the par. Didn't really go that way.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: All right, Michelle, thanks so much for coming in.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT