SBS OPEN AT TURTLE BAY
February 12, 2009
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Michelle, thank you so much for coming in. What a great way to start off the year, right at the top of the leaderboard going into the second round tomorrow. If you would, just take us through the day. How do you think you played and how are you feeling right now?   
 MICHELLE WIE: I think I had a couple of shaky driver shots, but overall I played pretty solid. I made a couple of good putts, and I'm excited for the next two days.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Any questions?   
  
  Q. Did you have good rhythm on the last few holes?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah. I had a couple of other shots and then made a couple of good putts. They weren't too different from the rest of the round. It all clicked together. Fortunately, like I said, overall it felt pretty solid.   
  
  Q. Talk about the first tee. Were you nervous? Were you excited?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I was a little nervous. That tree looked taller than usual. I felt really excited. You know, a new beginning, a lot of excitement.  
  
  Q. When did you get your confidence back last year?  
 MICHELLE WIE: I think I got my confidence back when my wrist stopped hurting. Every time I hit a good shot I gained confidence a little bit, and I realized you don't gain confidence overnight. It's definitely a work-in-progress.   
 And I felt like, especially after Q-School and all of that, when things started going my way, I got a lot more confidence.  
  
  Q. When did the wrist stop hurting?  
 MICHELLE WIE: I don't know.   
  
  Q. How much did local knowledge help this afternoon, with only a few golfers going low?  
 MICHELLE WIE: I guess I did have local knowledge since I grew up here and stuff. But I haven't played in Hawaii in a really long time, so I guess I do have a lot from back then, but I guess the thing I felt really comfortable with today was the fact that I was playing in front of a home crowd.   
 There were so many familiar faces out there, and to see them rooting me on and just to know that they've been rooting me on for the last how many years, so I just felt really comfortable playing in front of them, so I'm really grateful and happy to see all of them.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like players treat you differently as part of the Tour?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Well, I think automatically you feel like you're more -- not accepted, but you're more part of something. You know, no one's really -- they've always been nice to me and they still treat me really nice and all that, but it's a different feeling, like you're part of something, part of an association, part of a legacy. So I guess that feels a little bit different, but other than that, it's pretty much the same.  
  
  Q. Did a lot of them welcome you to the Tour?   
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah. A lot of them. I had the first players meeting and all that fun stuff.   
  
  Q. Did you make a conscious effort today to bounce back after the bogies?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah. I mean, like I said, I had a couple of shaky driver shots. I got some really bad lies, but I just tried the best I could. I felt comfortable enough that I had a couple of good birdies.   
  
  Q. Do you know your best score on this course?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Oh, I don't know. It's been a long time.   
 Yeah. I mean, you know, every time you shoot on Sunday it's a pretty good round, I guess.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Anything else? Michelle, thanks so much. Great job today.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT