LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
July 18, 2008
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JASON TAYLOR: Michelle, thanks for coming in. Another grout round. Currently tied for second going into the weekend. Talk about how you felt today.   
 MICHELLE WIE: I felt pretty good. I just need to birdie a couple more Par 4s, but game feels pretty solid.   
 Just need to work on a couple of things. Irons got a little shaky at the end. Just need to make some more putts and just need to go lower.  
  
  Q. Obviously two days in a row where you've holed a shot from the fairway. Describe that shot on No. 1 again.   
 MICHELLE WIE: Well, I hit a really good drive and only had like 85 yards. You know, I just hit it and then I was like -- Tim was like, Okay, let's just get a tap-in birdie here again. Those might be the magic words.   
 I hit a really good shot and it was like, Wow, it went in again. I was like, Oh, wow, this is pretty cool. Makes my life really easy. Yeah.   
  
  Q. What did you hit there?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Sand wedge.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I mean, you know, it helps to have a good bounce here and there, you know. But overall I felt like my game was pretty solid. If the breaks keep coming my way it's always an extra bonus, you know.   
  
  Q. How does it feel having two good rounds under your belt going into the weekend?  
 MICHELLE WIE: It feels good. You know, I had two solid rounds so I'm still a shot behind. You know, I need to go lower and lower over the weekend. There's a lot of birdie opportunities out there today that I missed.  
 So tomorrow and Sunday, you know, just get the rest and make a lot more birdies on the Par 4s, keep making the birdies on the Par 5s, and attack the Par 3s and just go lower and lower.  
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
MICHELLE WIE: Oh, definitely. I had two very makable eagle putts. I had a very makable eagle putt on 16 that I missed, and two chip shots in a row were like an inch from going in.   
 A lot of the putts on the back nine were about like, you know, really, really close from going in. I feel like there was a lot of birdie opportunities out there that I just barely missed.   
 My game feels pretty solid, and I just have to keep doing what I'm doing good and polish up what I'm not doing really doing good.  
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 MICHELLE WIE: You know, right now all I'm thinking about is I'm still a shot behind and how am I going to shoot a lower score. All in all you just got to be in front of the pack. Just going to play my own game and try to shoot lower scores the next two days.   
 Hopefully everything will work out.  
  
  Q. Many players have said the scoring conditions are so good this week. Maybe all four of the Par 5s are fairly reachable. Like you said, maybe one thing you haven't taken advantage of is getting few more birdies at Par 4s. Is that something that stays in your mind mostly?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, because if you think about it I only birdied the 9th hole. There's a lot of birdie opportunities out there. Like I said, there's a lot more opportunity and chances, and hopefully the next few days I'll get them all.  
  
  Q. Do you call yourself a perfectionist?  
 MICHELLE WIE: I think so. On certain levels, yes.  
  
  Q. Did you beat yourself up and get mad at yourself?  
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, it's a quality that I need to work on. But, you know, I guess like to be as perfect as I can be, but at the same time I know it won't happen. I try not to beat myself up too much, but sometimes I do. I mean, I do need to work on it.   
  
  Q. You were saying Tim is your caddie this week. You've been kind of alternating maybe him and one other guy. Was that kind of the plan at the start of the year or just the way things have worked out?   
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, just kind of how it worked out. The way it happened really.   
  
  Q. Who's the other fellow who has caddied for you this year?   
 MICHELLE WIE: Kenny Harms.  
  
  Q. Seems like you have a really good rapport with him.   
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I mean, he works at the Leadbetter Academy so I seen him a lot at the academy in Florida. Just works, I guess.   
  
  Q. Of the LPGA events you've been in this year, is this far and away the best position you've been in?  
 MICHELLE WIE: I think that's pretty obvious.   
  
  Q. The tournament in Germany, I know that's not LPGA, but were you in in the top 10 throughout?  
 MICHELLE WIE: I don't really remember.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT