U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 26, 2008
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 FULL AUDIO INTERVIEW

  
Q. Birdie the last hole?
  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah. 
 
  
Q. (Inaudible.)
 MICHELLE WIE: I had a couple of bad holes, but I'm more than confident that I can spring back tomorrow and shoot a low score tomorrow, because look how many iron shots I hit close today. I left at least four or five birdie putts out. And very makeable par putts.
  
So my putting just let me down a little bit, but I'm feeling very  
confident over the tees. I'm very confident over the second  
shot. I mean the one blaring thing is the 9th hole. But if  
I par that or birdie that tomorrow I'll be pretty good.
  
But I'm feeling very confident about my game right now, and it's very  
refreshing that -- very frustrating my score isn't showing it.
 
  
Q. More frustrating the birdie putts that don't go in or 9?
 MICHELLE WIE: 9 was a blur. 9 just happened. I had trouble counting how many strokes I had, that's how many I had on that hole. But like I said, it was just one bad hole, and it's a U.S. Open. It will bite you in the butt.
  
But I'm feeling very confident with my iron shots. And I believe  
myself I can do well tomorrow.
 
  
Q. If you could go back and play 9 again, which you can't, what  
would you do differently?
 MICHELLE WIE: Probably take a 3-wood off the tee. Kind of had a bad tee shot, but it's just -- I guess looking back at it now, I mean, it's a tough green. You've got to make sure you're over the hill, and not too long. And it's just -- it was a bad day.
 
  
Q. The third shot, did you blade it? 
 MICHELLE WIE: I was surprised I came out that way. I didn't blade it at all. It looked like a bladed it, but I hit behind the ball. It was weird, I don't know what happened with that. It was actually really good. I hit the shot the way I wanted to. It just came out looking like I bladed the ball. And I was, "What the hell?" afterwards.
 
  
Q. When you're first over the green, did you think at all about  
going sideways?
 MICHELLE WIE: Oh, yeah, I was thinking sideways, but my lie was just unbelievable. I was in like a -- like the grass is going the opposite direction. I was in like an old divot kind of thing. And if you're going to go sideways it's a longer way, and it's just -- you know, it's just a bad place to be, I shouldn't have been there in the first place. But I had one bad hole. And tomorrow it's going to be a new day.
 
  
Q. Would you describe your lie on your second shot on 9, did you  
like the lie enough to take that shot?
 MICHELLE WIE: No, I left myself a pretty good shot, my third shot. I didn't really think that a full shot in would benefit me. I'm pretty good at those awkward distances. I felt like I hit a good shot up there. That wasn't where I wanted to be, if I was on that walking path thing it would be perfect. But everything worked. I had a couple of bad breaks today.
 
  
Q. How would you describe that 9th green?
  
MICHELLE WIE: It looks like a Pringle's chip.
 
  
Q. (Inaudible.)
 MICHELLE WIE: It's a tough green. I just left myself in the one place where I shouldn't have left myself. But you're dead. I had a couple of bad lies. And when I was on that bottom, too. So it was just unlucky. I just have to putt better. I'm doing everything else the way I wanted to. I'm hitting my irons great. I have to do the good things and the bad things, keep them in the closet.
 
  
Q. Strength coming back a little bit?
  
MICHELLE WIE: I think so. 
 
  
Q. You can get the ball out there a little more. 
 MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, it's definitely recovering a bit. It's on the road to recovery. And I think on the road to recovery you're going to have a bad round here and there. And I'm not going to lose any confidence over today, because the back nine, I had every opportunity to shoot 4- or 5-under.
 
  
Q. How did you get over 9, assuming you are?
 MICHELLE WIE: I got over 9 on 10. I thought I was easily going to make a birdie on that hole. I was surprised I went over the green. I thought, great, it's my day today. But it just happened. I don't even know how many strokes I hit on that hole.
 
  
Q. The shot on 10?
  
MICHELLE WIE: I hit a 3-wood and I thought it was going to be  
perfect. 
 
  
Q. Are you better able to handle a 9 now than you would have  
been a couple of years ago?
 MICHELLE WIE: I think -- it's hard no matter what. But like I said, I think my confidence in my game is helping me. I'm just going to look over tomorrow and all I can do is try to shoot a very low score tomorrow.
 
  
Q. (Inaudible.)
 MICHELLE WIE: It's hard to. If it was not the U.S. Open I would. But I'm going to try to shoot a steady -- hit the same iron shots today and make some putts.
 End of FastScripts 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT