CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2007
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Looking past the schedule and starting school, does that mark a new beginning for you, getting out of the house, getting to your game a little more on your own and pursuing your education?  Is that how you look at it? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah, it's definitely a new start and it's definitely going to be different.  I'm a little bit nervous and a little scared for college, but I think it's going to be great.  I'm really excited for it, and I can't wait. 

 Q.  Any thoughts on today's round? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  Well, it was pretty similar to yesterday.  I hit a lot of good shots but just the round didn't go the way I wanted it to.  I missed a couple of crucial putts here and there and a couple of shots didn't go the way I wanted to.  I didn't feel like I played this bad.  It's just frustrating to see my score was high when I don't feel like I played that bad. 
 You know, I hit a lot of great drives and I hit a lot of good putts.  But a couple of them didn't go in, but like I said, I think it's a fine line between shooting really low and scooting a good score.  I think I can get it down before next week. 

 Q.  How is your wrist? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  It's doing better.  I mean, I had a couple of shots in the rough, a couple shots close to the tree trunk so I was a little worried about that, but fortunately nothing happened.  I'm very grateful. 

 Q.  You seem to be dealing with this pretty well.  It's a tough score to put up, but you seem to be handling it all right right now. 
 MICHELLE WIE:  Well, like I said, it's just frustrating because I didn't feel like I played this bad.  My score obviously didn't show it. 
 I'm pretty happy with the way I struck the ball today off the tee.  I feel like my distance is coming back, which I'm really proud of, and I just think it's coming there, it's getting there. 

 Q.  Could you talk about what it's like to miss the cut when everybody knows who you are as opposed to somebody else, some other young player out here that can kind of just walk away from the course? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  Well, I think it sucks for both players, sucks for anyone to miss the cut, really.  But like I said, it doesn't feel like I played bad enough to miss the cut.  I hit a lot of great shots, missed a couple of putts, but I think it's the same for everyone. 

 Q.  How was the experience in Canada? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  It's great.  I mean, the people are really fabulous here.  I've never felt so welcome in my life.  People were encouraging me throughout the whole round today.  Like I said, I can never understand the roads here, but everything else I can pretty much understand, and the weather has been really good fortunately.  A little bit cold, but it's been nice. 

 Q.  What are you going to do with your time before you get to the next golf course? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  Well, I haven't really figured that out yet.  I just finished my round, so I don't know. 

 Q.  You're not hiking out of here right to Portland, are you? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  I'm not really sure yet.  I don't know. 

 Q.  How do the other golfers relate to you when you get back to the locker room when you've had a day like today? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  I mean, they're pretty understanding.  Everyone has had bad rounds before, so I don't think there's any laughing or jeering or making fun of you.  Everyone out here has had a tough round.  So we're all very understanding of each other, we all respect each other.  I definitely respect every player. 
 Definitely they encourage me.  They say, it's all right, you know.  They really help me through it. 

 Q.  Talk about missing a couple putts.  Is it a mental thing?  Is focus a problem for you right now, or is it just the ball is not falling? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  Well, I'm not used to having birdie putts (laughing).  It's been a long time since I've had 15-footers and 10-footers for birdie.  So it was nice to get back into it.  I just felt like I don't really have a lot of rhythm out there.  A lot of the crucial putts, if I made them, aren't going to change.  But I just think that it's going to come back because the greens are tricky and I felt like I hit them solid but I didn't read them right. 

 Q.  Has the wrist injury forced you to restructure your swing?  Do you have to tweak it or what do you have to do now? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  I think I was at the stage where I had to tweak it and I had to compromise, but now I'm at the stage where I can handle it.  So I think I'm just getting it back slowly. 

 Q.  What happens when you go to college?  Do you get to play Tour events in the summer or do you come off the Tour for a few years?  What's your plan on that? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  Well, I haven't really figured that out yet.  I definitely want to play a couple tournaments, more tournaments hopefully, but we'll just have to see. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT