CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2007
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Thank you all for coming in.  Michelle, thank you for coming in.  It's been kind of a long day.  It's almost 6:00 o'clock.  Kind of talk about your round today and how you're feeling about the course. 
 MICHELLE WIE:  I mean, obviously I'm very disappointed by the score.  I didn't feel like I shot that.  I just had two bad holes.  The other holes were pretty consistent.  I missed a lot of birdie putts, but I guess I wasn't focused. 
 I'm going to come back tomorrow, make some putts, set the pace early and make a lot of birdies. 

 Q.  You hit it along the tree line on 18.  What were you trying to do with your second shot? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  Well, I didn't want to hit it along the tree line, just trying to fade it a little bit. 

 Q.  Can you talk about some of the older players on the Tour like the Juli Inksters and Laura Davies and all those?  What do they mean to you and how do they treat you and all that stuff? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  I think it's great.  They're really nice to me.  Juli is really nice to me.  I'll been seeing a lot of her out in San Francisco when I get on campus.  She was really nice to me today.  They have a lot of experience under their belt, and it just shows when they play. 

 Q.  How did the wrist feel today? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  It was okay.  I kind of had a couple of stingers.  It was a little cold so that didn't help, but it was pretty good. 

 Q.  You've shot really low rounds in the past.  Did you get a sense from this course that if you come out the way you're capable of playing you can go extremely low?  Is this a course you think may be set up for that tomorrow? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah, definitely.  I mean, I had a lot of birdie opportunities today.  I made a couple mistakes out there, but I was hitting my driver long and in the fairway and had a lot of birdie opportunities.  I definitely see myself being able to shoot a lot under par, so we'll just have to make it happen tomorrow. 

 Q.  What do you think you will have to shoot tomorrow to make the cut? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  I don't want to think about that right now.  I just want to think about hitting fairways, making a few more putts, not making too many mistakes.  Like I said, I only had two bad holes today, get rid of those, not make any bogeys and make a lot more birdies. 

 Q.  Your body language suggests you're totally frustrated.  You said you played okay but just having trouble getting low numbers like you used to get? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  Well, I was very frustrated because I felt like I had two bad holes.  I played very consistently aside from that and made a lot of good par saves.  I've just got to go out tomorrow and shoot a really low score. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you all for coming in.  Michelle, thank you and good luck tomorrow. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT