EVIAN MASTERS
July 25, 2007
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PAM WARNER:  Michelle, thank you for joining you today.  You've played at the Evian Masters so well; you've tied for second here.  Talk about being back here. 
 MICHELLE WIE:  It's so great to be back here.  I thought, why not get out of country for a little bit, thought it might be good, and this is so nice here.  It's so beautiful here and all the people are so nice. 
 I feel like I'm back at home.  This is already my 4th year here, and it just feels really welcoming. 
 PAM WARNER:  You've had a wrist injury this year.  Talk about how it's doing right now.  How everything is going? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  My wrist is doing BETTER.  Unfortunately I had a tough year this year, because it was very unfortunate that I fell on it, but it's all better; it's healing.  The bone's healed and everything, and I have to get it stronger because it's been in a cast and splints and bandages, and it needs some fresh air now. 
 It needs to get stronger.  I've been working out a lot now and trying to get back into the shape and trying to get the feel back. 

 Q.  Are you in favor of introducing doping controls? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  I think drug testing is drug testing.  I mean, they do it in every other sport, but I think it's sad that they have suspicions of people, but drug testing is drug testing.  I don't think I'm going to get caught, so I'm not worrying about it. 

 Q.  I saw you here a couple of years ago when you played.  How do you think you have changed in the last two years with your maturity as a golfer?  What are the things that you've learned about dealing with media people, et cetera?  How much better are you now in those two years? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  I don't know.  Hopefully I got a lot better.  The first time I played here I was 14, and it seems like way back!  I look at pictures back then and I think, wow, I look really different.  A lot of things have changed.  The world has changed, I've changed, grown a little bit taller, hopefully my game has matured a lot. 
 I felt like last year playing when I was healthy my game was consistent, and I feel like my putting and my short game I'm gaining a lot more shots on.  I feel like I'm getting better and better.  Unfortunately, I got sidetracked this year with my injury, but I feel like what doesn't kill me is going to make me stronger, and hopefully this will make me a stronger mentally and physically. 
 I feel like I'm maturing as a person, changing a little bit every year, but hopefully staying true to myself. 

 Q.  What will you do if it starts bothering you? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  If it does hurt during the round, I know I have some things I can do, I have a brace, so it puts comfort into my mind.  I don't feel like I need it at this point.  Like I said, it's getting stronger and stronger, and I just have to play until it feels better. 

 Q.  You turn 18 in October.  Will we see you full time on the LPGA? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  I'm not sure yet.  I haven't really decided what I really want to do yet.  18 is a big year.  It changes everything.  I'm going to make a smart decision, figure out what I really want to do and move forward onto it.  I'm not really sure yet. 

 Q.  Is it in the back of your mind -- you are incredibly young.  Is there something other than golf that interests you in doing as a career? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah, I mean, obviously I'm still so young.  Other kids my age are just thinking about what they want to do as a career, and obviously golf is what interests me the most, and I just love it.  I love doing it; I don't think of it as my career, I just love playing golf. 
 Obviously, I do have a lot of interests; that's why I'm going to college, to broaden my interest, in case I turn 25 and I want to do something else, then I have my education to fall back on. 
 I'm interested in the whole business side of things and really interested in that and obviously fashion.  I like a lot of things.  I just don't want my life to revolve around golf.  Golf is my main interest and my main passion, and I love doing it, but at the same time I love doing other stuff as well, and you never know what's going to happen ten years down the road or whatever.  So I'm keeping my options open but right now golf is my only interest. 

 Q.  So the world actually expects to see you on the LPGA, but in reality that may not happen? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  A lot of things happen.  People don't realize that I'm still young and I have my whole life in front of me, and it's just -- I want to be able to choose what I want to do in my life, and right now I'm just so happy playing golf right now. 

 Q.  I want to ask you about a course that I recently visited call Kohalina in Hawaii.  What does it mean to you? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  Kohalina means a lot to me.  It's a special place to me.  That's where I practiced on, and I played a lot of the courses, Olomana, Kawaii, and they have the greatest significance to me because that's where I grew up. 
 That's where I spent 8 hours of my life every single day there.  The people are so great there, and it's just the greatest feeling when you go back. 

 Q.  Can I just check, which wrist is it?  I thought you had problems with both wrists? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  It's mainly the left now. 

 Q.  So the left was the real problem? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  Well, they were quite big, but the last one was the "accident" one, so to speak. 

 Q.  Do you have a target in mind for this event? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  This week I just want to be able to play as freely as I did last year, as happy as I did.  No thoughts in my mind, just out there, me and the golf ball and the golf hole and the beautiful golf course and just to play. 
 Just to be my 17-year-old self again and to have no worries and hit the golf ball into the hole, and that's all I'm asking right now.  I just want to be able to play a pain-free round, not hurt and be able to play very well. 

 Q.  Does that mean if you play rounds without pain but perhaps miss the cut you will be satisfied then? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  Is there a cut this week?  There is?  Oh, yeah, there is.  You know, it all depends.  I just want to be able to play pain free.  If I do play pain free and I don't play very well, it's going to disappoint me, but I just want to be able to play care free, and I think if I do that then I'll play very well. 

 Q.  Who have you got on the bag this week?  Who is caddying for you? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  David Clark. 

 Q.  And he has caddied for a little while? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah, for this year, yeah. 

 Q.  When are you going to Stanford?  What are you due to study? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  Stanford begins end of September, which I just realized I have two more months of summer, which excited me quite a bit, actually.  It's going to be fun.  I haven't decided what I want to major in yet, but I want to take a lot of courses to broaden my horizons and experiences in things, because the great thing about Stanford is there are so many smart people and people with other talents and spectacular and extraordinary people there that it's going to be a great learning experience to be around them.  So I'm just really excited. 

 Q.  Are you staying in student accommodations? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  Yes. 
 PAM WARNER:  Thank you so much, Michelle.  



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT