U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2007
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Michelle, I know you withdrew after your 10th hole of the day, after your tee shot.  When did your wrist first begin to bother you today? 
  MICHELLE WIE: I just kind of woke up and it was really sore. But it was okay. It held up. I just hit a drive off the 7th tee and I was just, you know, I tweaked it. And then after that it kind of went downhill. I don't remember hurting this much again. So definitely going to re-evaluate and the last thing I want to do is withdraw, but it left me with no choice. 

 Q.  I know you haven't had much time to think about this, but what's going to happen next for you? 
  MICHELLE WIE: I definitely have to re-evaluate, because I obviously don't want this to happen again. I'll definitely think about it and re-evaluate it and keep working on it because it's a work in progress, it's going to get better, but I'm going to have some good days and I'm going to have some bad days. So we'll just have to see. 

 Q.  Where are you going from Pine Needles? 
  MICHELLE WIE: I'm probably going to go to Florida again. 

 Q.  Do you have a doctor there? 
  MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, probably going to see some guys, not really sure where or when, but definitely going to see someone. 

 Q.  You say you're not sure or whether, but yet you say you make your own decisions, are you going to see different doctors, same doctors? 
  MICHELLE WIE: Obviously, right now we haven't really contacted anyone, so I don't know who I'm going to see. I'm definitely going to see the same people that I've been seeing and I want to take some time and just to think about it and definitely to work on it. 

 Q.  Which doctors?  What was their advice before? 
  MICHELLE WIE: They said that the bones have healed, I have little ongoing problems with a little bit there, but it's still a work in progress. He said I just have to trust in it and just to really believe that it's going to get better. But he said that I'm going to have some good days and bad days. 

 Q.  Is it an ache, how would you describe what the feeling is like? 
  MICHELLE WIE: Definitely enough pain to bring tears to my eyes. It was hard to do that for me, but it wasn't fun. It was not a great feeling. 

 Q.  You woke up with it, did you sleep on it or something?  Did it hurt after any practice yesterday?  Anything like that? 
  MICHELLE WIE: No, it was okay. I don't know what the wrist is thinking or doing every day, I mean, you know, it's just sometimes it acts up and some days it is okay. But just definitely just going to keep my head up and just think good thoughts because hopefully I didn't do any damage to it, but it's still a work in progress, it's just going to get better and better. 

 Q.  It sounds like a Catch-22, you need to play for it to get stronger, but then you play and you hurt it.  So what's the, there doesn't seem like a solution to that. 
  MICHELLE WIE: It's definitely that. I definitely have to play and work out to get stronger. But like I said, it's just a trial and error. 



 I just have to see.  I definitely want to compete, because that's what I like to do, but definitely have to think about my health and just work on it like I said, it's a work in progress. 

 Q.  Was it hurting during the practice rounds? 
  MICHELLE WIE: It was okay. It was off and on. I felt like I made a big progress here when I took off my wrist band, so that's definitely a positive. But like I said, there's good days and bad days and obviously today was not a good day. 

 Q.  When do you think you'll be going over to Europe? 
  MICHELLE WIE: At this point I'm not really sure. I just have to re-evaluate, make some smart choices and just have to see how it works out. But I'm sure everything will work out for the good. 

 Q.  Would you be opposed to another long layoff to let it heal would you be oppose today that? 
  MICHELLE WIE: As of right now, I don't know. I'm definitely going to think about all the options. I don't want to layoff again, but we'll have to see. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT