MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 9, 2007
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  What about at home, you haven't played much since the wrist got hurt? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  I did, but you know, I guess it's different from practice and the first round.  I think it's just a work-in-progress.  This is my first stages of rehab and having experience with that and getting a feel for the game.  Right now I'm hitting some really solid shots, and some misses and I need to get the misses back into play and just feel my way around and even if I'm in trouble, just try and make par.  You know, just feel like I can make birdies and work on it. 

 Q.  Did you tweak it at one point in the round today or was it just a gradual thing where it started to bother you? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  Unfortunately -- inaudible -- a little bit more time than I wanted to.  Hurt it a couple times out there in the rough.  You know, got a little bit worse and worse.  That shot on 16 -- inaudible -- but we'll just see how it is. 

 Q.  How was it, a tough day in the wind? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  Obviously it was a lot tougher today with the wind but I felt like more at home and obviously not as hot as yesterday. 
 It was fun out there.  I felt like all of the holes were challenging in a good way and it was fun and I just have to work on it.  I just have to be patient with myself. 

 Q.  On a scale of 1 to 10, where would you put the wrist at? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  I don't really want to rank it right now.  I don't really -- inaudible -- you know, it's not doing so well.  But I don't really -- I can't really put a number on it right now.  We'll just have to see throughout the night what's going to happen. 

 Q.  You continue to draw sizable galleries out there, what does that say about the fans and the support they have for you? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  I just love them so much because even though I struggled a lot today, they were there for me and I'm just so grateful that I actually had fans out there today.  It was just a really great feeling to hear them cheer for me even though I wasn't playing good. 

 Q.  What will you do tonight with the wrist?  What kind of therapy will you have to do? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  I'm going to pound about a thousand balls -- no, I'm not.  (Giggling) definitely put ice on it, stim it, work with Leann on it, and I'm definitely not going to hit any balls on the range.  Just elevate it and keep the blood flowing and eat some good food. 

 Q.  Do you think if this wasn't a major would you have played this week? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  I think I definitely would have reconsidered playing this week.  Like I said, I didn't really have that much time in Hawaii to get ready for these two weeks, last week and this week. 
 I think that, you know, I was kind of blinded because I wanted to play so bad.  So you know, I just really tried to get back out there -- maybe I would have reconsidered if it wasn't a major.  But I was really anxious to get out here. 

 Q.  Are you for sure going to play tomorrow? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  I don't really know, I think for sure right now.  I really want to play.  I think it would be awesome to get another experience, a round under my belt.  Just have to see how it goes tonight. 

 Q.  Will you make a decision tonight, tomorrow morning? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah, first thing tomorrow morning. 

 Q.  Your right wrist, is that a problem, too? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  It's been bothering me for quite a long time, before my left.  Like I said I'm rehabbing my right wrist as well and it's a lot better.  It's not going to happen overnight.  Obviously it's my first injury and I've never experienced anything like it before.  You know, just playing it by ear and just working at it and just, you know, being really patient with myself right now. 

 Q.  Did you hit driver today? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  I did actually.  I cranked one on 11.  It was very therapeutic actually for me. 

 Q.  Cranked it where? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  11. 

 Q.  Where? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  Oh, in the rough.  (Laughter) I don't care, I hit driver, first time in 54 holes, that's okay.  It was really therapeutic. 

 Q.  How far did you hit it? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  I'm not really sure but I think it went pretty far. 

 Q.  Ballpark? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  280, 290. 

 Q.  Is there anything in particular giving you trouble today? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  I hit some good shots.  I had some really solid shots but the wind was swirling today, so like on the par 3, I misjudged the wind a little bit. 
 Like I said, I just felt like I didn't play enough.  I have to keep playing 18 holes, keep playing and learn how to grind it out, learn how to make some birdies and just play the game again, because I feel like I'm hitting some solid shots.  I just have to make the shots work now. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT