MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 7, 2007
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Did you get around today okay? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah, I mean, you know, it was great today.  I actually hit some really good shots, I built a lot of confidence off of them. 
 Like I said, it's a work-in-progress and it's definitely not where I want it to be still.  You know, I hit some great shots out there today, and I'm just going to build on that.  I'm definitely not 100% right now, and I'm just going to work on it, work on it and hopefully tomorrow is going to be better than today. 

 Q.  Are you pleased with 73 in this case? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  Yes, I mean, I think I am.  I felt like today was a much better round.  I felt very -- I think I built a lot of confidence on this round because I, you know, stuck a lot of shots really close to the hole.  I flushed a lot of tee shots, and, you know, I kept it in the short stuff today and I played smartly.  I used my head.  I just built a lot of confidence on this round. 

 Q.  Why didn't you hit your driver today? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  I just felt like today, I felt like there was no need today.  Maybe I'll change tomorrow.  But today I just felt like my course strategy was fairways and greens, and you know, I just felt like I just chose a club to hit the fairways. 

 Q.  Did you notice all of the people out there, the huge entourage following you? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  It was great; the fans are awesome.  I just was really good to have the fans out here; and it's a major tournament, felt like one and I'm having a lot of fun. 

 Q.  How important was this round in your career?  How important is today after everything that's happened that you went out and played well? 
 MICHELLE WIE:  Like I said, I built a lot of confidence over this round.  I hit a lot of good shots in there.  I hit a lot of good putts and I'm just going to think positively.  Like I said, it's a work-in-progress and I just have to work on it more and more and hopefully it's going to be better and better. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT