MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 10, 2007
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  When was the decision made that you felt like could you give it a go today?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  You know, I visited with my doctor yesterday.  He said that I could play today.  But you know, I was very frustrated with my round Todd.  I felt like I was playing a little bit better but the score didn't come out and I made a couple of silly mistakes.  I know what I need to work on now and just keep working at it and be patient with myself and just work at it.   
  
  Q.  Did the wrist feel better than it did 24 hours ago?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah, but unfortunately I was stuck in the rough quite a few times so that was unfortunate.  But like I said it's a work-in-progress.  I'm definitely going to try to be patient with myself.   
  
  Q.  Did you find your misses were one direction more than another?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah, you know, I think that's where I progressed, missing from both sides -- it's kind of one-sided a little bit now.  I feel like it's getting a little bit better each day.  Like I said it's not going to happen overnight.   
 I just have to be patient with myself and work diligently on it.  Still have to work on my putting and short game and long game.  I just have to work really hard at it the next two weeks and after playing four days in a row, I've figured out what I have to work on and I'm just going to work on it and hopefully play 5,000 times better than this week.   
  
  Q.  Your wrist is still bothering you; are you comfortable with your decision to play this week, do you think it was the right thing to do?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  I think that it was a good decision but also maybe a couple of weeks too early.  I think I gained a lot of experience and confidence by playing four days this week.  Like I said, I have to test the waters sometime.  There's really no given date for this.  Like I said I've never been injured before.  This is my first injury.   
 I was playing it by ear and testing the water and I felt like this week is a lot better than last week and I hope the U.S. Open is going to be a lot better.   
 But like I said I just have to work really hard on it.  I know what I have to work on and all I have to do is work on it and be patient with myself.   
  
  Q.  What will you do?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  I'm going to New York for a couple of days and then I'm going down to Orlando.  Just work on it, get a lot of rounds in and it's just really just work.   
  
  Q.  What will you take away from all of the adversity you've gone through?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  You know I'm going through a hard time right now.  Obviously injuries are not fun.  It just shows me who -- you know, who I really trust and it just really shows who people really like me for, whether it's me as a person or just as a golfer.  I'm really getting close to my friends and my family because they have been really getting me through this.  It's not a fun time really.  But it's just going to be really hard.  I've got to work with David, I've got to work with myself and I just have to be confident.   
  
  Q.  Do you find that you're having a hard time trusting your swing?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  No, not really.   
  
  Q.  At impact, I guess.   
 MICHELLE WIE:  I haven't really played for a long time, and that's what happens when you don't play for a long time.  Right when I injured my wrist I was like, okay, I'll just take a couple of months off and everything will be back where it was.  But it's not.  Like I said, I've never been through an injury before and it's not like that.  I'm back at step one and just have to build on it and over the next two weeks, three weeks I'm just going to work really hard at it and just be patient with myself and just work on it.   
  
  Q.  I was thinking of the shot yesterday when you were standing on the rocks and there were still rocks near you, and you were getting ready to punch it, were you like, my wrist is still sore and there's these rocks in front of me?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  I was more like scared that I was going to fall off the rock.  It was an interesting shot.  But obviously that's kind of running through my shot -- head, the main thing that's running through my head is how am I going to get my shot on to the green.   
  
  Q.  Have there been any discussions at all about possibly shutting it down for the rest of the year just to regroup physically and emotionally?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  No, definitely my wrist is healing.  If it wasn't healing, if I broke it again or if I, you know, had another accident, maybe.  But I feel like it's healing right now.   
 It's just like I said again and again, rehab is not fun.  It's just you're back at step one again and I just have to work on it and I just have to be patient with myself and just keep on working on it.  That's just what golf is; you just won't be back where you were if you take five months off, four months off.   
 I'm back at step one.  I'm just going to really work on it.   
  
  Q.  How much do you look forward to college?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  A lot actually.  I think it's going to be so much fun.  High school is more like a mandatory thing.  You have to go to high school.  I have to wake up at 7:30.  But college, you know, you can make your own schedule.  You can learn whatever you want.  You know I'm just really excited.  I'm going to be dorming next year, so I just turned in my housing applications on Friday.  So I'm just really excited.   
  
  Q.  Do you have to dorm at Stanford?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah, I do, but I also kind of want to, just to get the freedom a little bit and experience it.  Because, I don't know, I just think it would be kind of weird if I stayed at home.   
  
  Q.  When will you find out who your roommate is?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  I'm not really sure yet.  I want my friend to be my roommate, we were kind of like, oh, let's be roommates, but we'll see if they let us.   
  
  Q.  Will we see you at Pine Needles?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah, I'll definitely be there and try to play better.   
  
  Q.  What have you heard about that course?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  That there's a lot of pine trees.   
  
  Q.  Good answer.  Are you going to go early and play a few rounds?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah, I think so.  I'm definitely going to go to Orlando for a little bit and work on my swing and then go to Pine Needles.   
  
  Q.  What's the best new movie of the summer?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  Well, um, I'll have to see but I have to say Shrek 3 was really good -- I sound like a five-year-old, great.  (Laughter) I'm going to see Ocean's 13 next week, so I'll let you know in the next couple of weeks.   
  
  Q.  Any consolation getting your first paycheck of the year?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  It's kind of fun actually -- it's a good feeling.  It's a good feeling to get a paycheck.  (Giggling).   
  
  Q.  What is it like to see Morgan win a major as a team, and atop the leaderboard is another 18-year-old?  What is that like to see these teenagers?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  I think it's great for them.  You know, they deserve it.  They have worked really hard at it.  And obviously they have the talent and you know they are up-and-coming risers.  I hope the best for them.  They are really talented and I just hope they do well.   
  
  Q.  Does it fire you up at all?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  Most definitely.  I'm a competitor and no matter who wins I want to do better.  I think that's the fun part about the game is that you play better and other players play better, so it's always a constant struggle to be at the top.  Right now like I said I'm back at step one and I have a lot of building to do.  I think it's going to be a long, hard road to get there but I think it's going to be a fun adventure.   
  
  Q.  When do you think you'll be back to the point where you can compete for titles?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  You know, we'll have to see about that.  It might happen quicker than I think.  It might happen slower than I think.  Like I said it's my first injury so I'm not sure what's going to happen.  I'm going to be patient with myself but at the same time work really hard at it.   
  
  Q.  Have you figured out a major for Stanford?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  I'm kind of in between economics or communications or maybe like international relations or maybe something with math.   
  
  Q.  Journalism?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  I don't know.  Maybe.  I'm not actually a great writer.  I'm more of a math person, so we'll have to see.   
  
  Q.  Will you scale back your playing once you start school?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  No.  I think that high school was a full-time thing for me and I think college -- like I said college is more of a mandatory education system where I had to be there.  I was only allowed to miss two weeks a semester.   
 College is I'm paying my money to go there and I think that I'll just going to study a lot in my off-season and play a lot of golf.  I think hopefully it will be a good balance.  We'll see when I get there.  But I'm definitely not taking more time off.  I'm going to more -- play more.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT