MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 8, 2007
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Is this 5,000 times better than last?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  Oh, 5,000 times better.  My wrist felt a lot better.  I felt stronger.  I actually felt like I actually played some pretty good golf out there today.  I was 4-over coming into 14 and I knew I had to make two birdies coming in, and I did, back-to-back.  Those were the kind of holes that show me and other people that I still have it in me.   
 I just need to keep on working with it, keep on working on it.  My wrist just has to get healing, I just have to get stronger and I just have to play more, it's that simple.  I feel like it's really in me and I hit some really great tee shots today, some really good second shots, some really clutch putts and I just feel like it's getting better and better.   
  
  Q.  What are they telling you about your wrist?  How long is it going to take until you're 100%; can they tell?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  It's hard to tell right now.  I'm just playing it how I feel right now.  I'm just icing it and working on it and hopefully just get a little better and better by every single day.  I try not to rush into it, try not to expect too much of myself right now.   
 I know that I'm not 100%, so I'm just asking everyone to be patient with me because it's going to take time.  It's not going to -- it's not going to heal as fast as, you know, I thought it was going to do.  So I just have to keep working on it, like I said, this week -- today was 5,000 times better than last week.  So next week it will be maybe just 1,000 times better than this week, then we're on a good path.   
 So I just have to keep working on it and just keep getting healthy.   
  
  Q.  Given the way you played the back nine today, the way you played yesterday, how important is it for you to continue your play tomorrow and keep that progress going?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  Most definitely.  I think it's very important that I just keep playing rounds.  Right now I've been sitting on my butt at home for four months and haven't been doing that much.  Obviously hitting balls on the range and practicing on the practice green is completely different than playing out on the golf course.   
 So, you know, just playing continuously, just keep playing rounds.  Like I said, I know I have the competitiveness in me, like when I made those two birdies.  I felt like my old self again on those two holes.  I just have to keep bringing that out.  It's a work-in-progress and just keep working on it.   
  
  Q.  If you don't play the next two days, what do you do the next two weeks before the Open?  Where do you go and what do you do?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  I'm definitely going to go to Florida for a little bit, work on my game with David and get a lot of rounds in under my belt, just try to play and just have fun again and be out there.  That's what I want to do, although it's going to be 500 degrees outside, maybe I'll play butt naked but I'll play.   
  
  Q.  Will you hit driver on the range this week?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  I have been.  I have to say I whacked a couple on the range today because I had to get my frustration out.  I was like, I want to hit my driver out here.   
 I think I was very proud of myself that I didn't pull out the driver once over 36 holes and that is a world record for me.  I pull a driver out every three holes at least.   
 Like I said, it's just getting better and better.  I'm on the right path.  I'm getting stronger every day; I can feel it.  It's not going to be that quick.  It's just going to take a long time and injuries suck.  I just have to work on it.  Like I said this week is 5,000 times better than last week.   
  
  Q.  What is it you've learned about yourself the last few weeks?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  I've learned a lot about injuries and this is my first injury and I realize I have to be careful with my body.  I never really realized how long it would take to fight back an injury.  I just thought, "Oh, I fractured my wrist, put it in a cast, I'll be fine, right where I was."   
 Now I realize that it just takes a lot of patience and a lot of hard work to get back to where I was.  It's just a lot of fun, I'm having a lot of fun getting there.   
  
  Q.  What happened a week ago and dealing with all that, did it affect your play this week?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  Not at all.  When I'm on the golf course I'm really excited to play.  All I'm thinking about is hitting the ball in the fairway and keeping it in the short stuff and keeping it on the green and making putts for birdies.   
 You know, like I said, I'm just having fun out there.  I'm just so happy to be out there again.   
  
  Q.  Have you had a chance to talk to Annika this week or has she talked to you; have you tried to approach her?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  I haven't really seen her this week.   
  
  Q.  Given the situation with the driver, is that a physical situation or anything with just not having confidence in the driver?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  Well, I think it's both.  I think I have to work up to it.  Right now I feel very comfortable with my 2-iron.  I feel very comfortable with my 3-wood and I feel very comfortable with my irons and putter.  I just have to keep working at it.  My driver is probably the longest club and the heaviest club in my bag so I obviously have to work into it.  I'm going to do some club testing with it in Florida when I'm there and hopefully work on it and be able to pull out the driver.   
  
  Q.  Considering you didn't plan on using it this week, is it safe to say you didn't expect to win this week?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  I think that deep in my soul, I really expect like -- not expected, I really wanted to win this week.  But realistically, I just wanted to show myself that I'm better -- like I can play and I can actually make birdies out here and I can actually keep it in the fairway.   
 I think this week was such a confidence booster for me because I actually hit -- I was actually in the fairway and I was actually hitting shots really close to the hole and I was actually making putts.  So I'm just going to build off of this and take a lot of positives away and hopefully I'll play tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  And you're hitting first all the time?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah, it's a great feeling to be hitting first.  I kind of missed that.   
  
  Q.  How did the heat affect your game?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  It was hot.  It's really hot.  But you know, the hotter it is, the more weight you lose fast, so I'm happy about that.   
  
  Q.  What does Leann do for you?   
 MICHELLE WIE:  She works on my wrist, warms me up in the morning and works out with me.  Just be a therapist.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT