84 LUMBER CLASSIC
September 14, 2006
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LAURY LIVSEY:  We would like to welcome Michelle Wie into the interview room.  You're playing your third PGA TOUR event of the year.  Do you want to talk about your round today.
MICHELLE WIE:  Well, I felt like I played really good.  My shots were    I felt that my iron play was fantastic today.  My driver was, aside from a couple of missed shots, pretty good.  I felt from tee to green I played really well.  I felt like my short game and putting let me down a couple    I mean, every time.  I felt like I    it didn't feel like I played 5 over because I hit the ball really good.  Late in the day it was a little bit bumpy, and I think that tomorrow the course owes me a lot of birdies.
Q.  Do you feel like this is an improvement over last week?
MICHELLE WIE:  Oh, yeah (laughing).  The 14th hole and the 15th hole, I'm hitting my irons to about like ten yards farther this week because I'm hitting them very solidly.  David and I worked on my posture and my swing, and I feel a lot more confident in my game and a lot more comfortable.  So I feel like it's coming along.
Q.  What do you think you deserved to shoot today?
MICHELLE WIE:  Well, those up and downs, I think I should have made some pars.  I mean, I played even par on the par 3s, so make some birdies on the par 5s, save those shots because they weren't that hard of chip shots, I mean, I think I could have easily shot under par today.  But it's just my putts didn't go in, but I feel like tomorrow my putts will go in.
Q.  It could have gotten away from you there.  You had I think the three consecutive bogeys, then you kind of steadied yourself.  Were you satisfied how steady you were to the finish?
MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah, I think that the three bogeys I made in a row wasn't because I shot bad.  It wasn't because I was behind a tree or something like that.  It was, you know, failure to get up and down.  I felt very comfortable with my game today, and tomorrow if I could keep these irons the way I'm hitting them and make a couple of putts, get up and downs when I miss the green, I think that I'll be good.
Q.  You had either the biggest crowds in this tournament's history today or at least some of them.  Does that amaze you, surprise you, and how did you feel at 17 when they were chanting like that?
MICHELLE WIE:  I mean, it's such an amazing feeling.  It's amazing to feel so good.  I can't explain how good I felt on 17 when they chanted.  It was pretty cool.  I mean, it was amazing.
Q.  I seem to have missed this somewhere.  Who do you work with on the psychological side of the game?
MICHELLE WIE:  I work with a gay named Jim Loehr.
Q.  This is the longest course you've ever played by a fair amount.  Can you comment on what kinds of irons you were hitting in today and generally how much of a challenge that was?
MICHELLE WIE:  Well, obviously today it was quite wet and I had no roll in my drives, so it was playing a lot longer.  But I had quite a bit of 5 irons, quite a bit of 4 irons into the green, but then I also had quite a bit of 9 irons and 8 irons into the green, so I think it was a nice mixture.

You know, I came into this golf course knowing that I would have 4  and 5 irons into most of the greens, and I think I have prepared myself.  But I felt like I hit my irons really good today.  I actually got close to many of the holes.
Q.  What do you think you have to shoot tomorrow, and whatever you need to do, do you think you can do it?
MICHELLE WIE:  Well, tomorrow I'm just going to go out with the same mindset that I had today, just try my hardest and keep plugging away.  I'm just going to focus on every single hole, try to make the best out of every shot that I have and just make a couple more putts, and I think that I'll be shooting a low score tomorrow.
Q.  It's probably safe to say not all the pros are thrilled that you're here.  Do you feel pressure to have to make the cut one of these times at all?  Do you put pressure on yourself that way, maybe justify being here?
MICHELLE WIE:  That's not the reason why I want to make cuts.  I want to make cuts because it's an achievement and it's a goal of mine.  I'm not out here to justify anything.  My playing partners today were very welcoming and they were very nice to me.  I felt really good.  I mean, I had a really fun time playing today with them.  I feel like    I don't really feel any extra pressure just because I'm a girl out here.
Q.  Going around a course like this, and you had I think 34 putts, do you get frustrated putting?
MICHELLE WIE:  Well, I was frustrated with my putting not because I was hitting them bad or because I was pulling them or pushing them.  It was frustrating today because I was hitting every putt on line, and about six, seven putts looked like they were going to go in the middle of the hole, and sometimes they hit a spike mark, sometimes they hit a footprint.  That was a little bit frustrating.  But not because I was mis hitting my putts.
LAURY LIVSEY:  Michelle, thanks for coming.  Appreciate it very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT