BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 16, 2018
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Michelle Wie finishing it up with about a nice 18-foot birdie putt on the final hole.  Was it that much easier today than yesterday?  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, definitely was.  I definitely felt like I had a lot of miss opportunities out there today.  Yeah, course is definitely playing a lot easier than it was yesterday, which I was happy for.   
 Q.  Is it a course you feel fits your game in particular?  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I think so.  I think it's a course where you feel like you have to make birdie every hole.  I think the winds helped a little bit yesterday.   
We'll see.   
 Q.  24 hours from now until you likely tee off tomorrow late afternoon.  Is that too much time or does it give you enough time or just the right amount of time to prepare for the weekend?  
MICHELLE WIE: I don't really think about it.  Just going to rest, get physio, probably take a nap, eat, watch Netflix.  A lot of Netflix.   
 Q.  So it was 4-under day today.  Michelle, good job today.  
MICHELLE WIE: Thank you.   
 Q.  How did you feel out there and what was working for you?  
MICHELLE WIE: I had a lot of fun out there today.  I felt like I made a couple stupid errors out there today, but made up for it with some good putts.  Feeling pretty good about it.   
Excited for the weekend.   
 Q.  Tell me about that putt on nine to finish the day.  
MICHELLE WIE: Felt good.  I felt like I was misreading a lot the putts today, so it felt good to finally read them right on 7 and 9.  Always feels good to end with a birdie.   
 Q.  Tell me about these 13 rounds to start your season.  How good do you feel?  How much confidence do you have right now?  
MICHELLE WIE: Having a lot of fun playing.  Just trying to build confidence every round, every shot.  Just trying to keep it consistent and just try to do the best I can every round out there.   
 Q.  All right.  Give me a thought on the weekend.  It's going to be exciting here, isn't it?  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I haven't really giving it much thought yet.  Just going to go out and rest.  I'm kind of tired.  Going to get physio and just chill.   
 Q.  What did you hit into 9?  
MICHELLE WIE: Pitching wedge.   
 Q.  And 7?  
MICHELLE WIE: Gap wedge.   
 Q.  How far was the putt?  
MICHELLE WIE: They were both like 12, 15 feet.   
 Q.  You've always been good on tough courses where par is a good score.  You went really low at HSBC.  This is a course where you've got to make a lot birdies.  Is there something going on that you feel comfortable going after birdies more?  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah.  I think I it kind of started from last year.  Just pulling in my confidence from last year, just knowing that I can have that low round here.  I think definitely in the past I definitely have kind of struggled on this course because I wasn't able to make a lot birdies.   
But I feel like it's just going out there, playing with more confidence.  I think that helps a lot.  Definitely just bring out the memories from last year and knowing that I can shoot 7-under, 6-under.  So just trying to make more birdies for the weekend.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT