WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 1, 2006
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COLIN CALLANDER: Michelle, welcome to the 2006 Weetabix Women's British Open. You come in here after a tie for third in America followed by a tie for second last week at Evian. You must be feeling pretty good about your chances.

MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I mean, I feel good about my game. Obviously it's like 30 degrees colder and like ten times windier than last week.
But, you know, I'm really excited for this week. This golf course has so much history on it. I played it; it must have like 20 bunkers on every hole. But it's a fun golf course and I really enjoy playing links golf. And I'm going to have a lot of fun this week.


COLIN CALLANDER: How difficult was it out there today?

MICHELLE WIE: It's just hard physically because the wind is so strong and it beats you up. It feels like someone's slapping you around. It's fun out there. I'm used to the wind, you know, and it makes the golf course what it is. If there's no wind, it wouldn't be like this.

Q. How many holes have you managed to play now?

MICHELLE WIE: I actually played 17. I went to the 17th fairway and I was very hungry because I haven't eaten LUNCH, And eating for me is very important. So I decided that I couldn't that I had to go back in and eat lunch.

Q. How is the golf course playing, is it what you expected?

MICHELLE WIE: It's very nice. It's not as brown as I thought it was going to be, looking at the British Open for the men. But the golf course is in great, great conditions. Obviously you can get very good lies and you can get very bad lies but that's just the way it is. The greens are rolling very nicely. It's a very true roll. Obviously it's going to be totally different of how the weather changes. But you know, that's the beauty of it. You never know what's going to happen.

Q. How was the wind affecting your club selection?

MICHELLE WIE: Well, I mean, there were a couple holes where I had like 150 and I'm hitting a 5 iron because you can't really hit poor shots in here. It's a lot of feel. It's very extreme from into the wind and downwind.

Q. What difference

MICHELLE WIE: Well, I'm not really sure. I mean, downwind, I mean, I hit like I was hitting like they are not really hitting full shots. I mean, if I had like a like a 5 iron would go like 200, 180.

Q. Inaudible?

MICHELLE WIE: Well, you know, obviously it's very frustrating right after you finish playing. It's like, oh my God, I was close again.
If you look at the overall if you look at overall year, I feel like this is the best I've ever played. And obviously I wish I could have won a couple of events, but hey, at least I'm not winning one event and then missing the cut in another. I'm consistently being up there. I'm consistently playing good golf.
I think a win is coming. It's just depends on how lucky you are that week and how good you're playing. I feel like I'm playing very solidly. You know, obviously it's been a little bit frustrating that I haven't been able to, you know, go up to the next step but I feel like it's happening. It's not because I'm lacking anything. It's just when you look back on a week, it's just a shot here, a shot there. By doing this, I feel I'm learning how to win. I feel like I've been playing the best I ever have, you know, consistent wise.


Q. When do you go back to Hawaii and what's been your favourite tournament after

MICHELLE WIE: Well, after that, I'm going to New York and L.A. and finally I go back home. But I think that I just had a lot of fun this summer, going all over the place, going to Korea this year, going to where did I go, to France, all over the United States. I mean, it's been a lot of fun. I can't really pick one tournament that I can that I like the best. But I just love the traveling part of it, going to new places: Oh, who am I going to meet this week; what am I going to be able to eat. You know, it's exciting.

Q. Your own expectations inaudible?

MICHELLE WIE: You know, it's my own expectations. I don't really care when people say about my game. Last week, I was frustrated well, I think not frustrated. I think disappointed is a better word. Like, oh, I wish I could have done that.
But looking back on it, I played really good golf. I played solid golf. I played solidly until the end. You know, it's not because people expect me to win that I get frustrated. It's just because I expect myself to win. You know, getting second, getting third every week, I mean, I think that's pretty good. I think that's pretty consistent but I'm ready for a win now.


Q. Inaudible?

MICHELLE WIE: Well, I don't care. People have their right to talk. I mean, not everyone is going to have their own opinions. I have my opinions of everyone else. But, you know, it's just that's the way the world is.

Q. Inaudible?

MICHELLE WIE: Well, I don't want to say anything.

Q. How did you enjoy playing with Laura Davies last week?

MICHELLE WIE: She's remarkable. I love playing with her. I played with her before. You just see that she has so much experience and it's just unbelievable, some of the shots that she played in the final round. I just love how she, you know, uses the club to make the tee for a driver, as well. I think that's pretty funny, that's pretty cool. I did that for some of my wedge shots but to use a driver on that, I think that's pretty cool.
It's just like the shot that she hit on 16 was pretty cool. I mean, she just hits these kind of shots; that's what makes Laura, it's pretty cool.


Q. Are your parents here this week?

MICHELLE WIE: Yes, they are.

Q. Inaudible?

MICHELLE WIE: No, some people keep them to themselves. Some people voice them. I think that's what makes the world interesting. I mean, it's here and there, and I mean, you need it.

Q. Inaudible?

MICHELLE WIE: I'm not really sure. I don't remember. (Laughing).

COLIN CALLANDER: Michelle, thank you very much and the best of luck this week. 


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT