HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 8, 2006
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DANA GROSS RHODE:  Thank you all for coming in.  This is the first quarterfinal at the HSBC Women's match Play tournament that's finished.  Michelle, unfortunately, you couldn't quite finish it.  Talk about your round a little bit.
MICHELLE WIE:  I thought I played really well.  I just had a lot of bad breaks, my wedges, you know, misjudged a couple that might spin back or not.  You know, obviously my putts, maybe a couple out there.  But I thought I played great.

Brittany played really good today and that's how match play is.
Q.  Everybody was talking about your length off the tee this week and how it might be easier for you because you hit it past a lot of other players.  Do you feel like the tournament was won and lost for you on the greens and with the putter?
MICHELLE WIE:  Well, yeah, I mean today a couple putts didn't go in.  I felt like I stroked the ball very well.  You know, just didn't go in.  There's nothing I can do about that.  Some putts go in, some putts don't.  Unfortunately all of the putts that didn't go in came today.

That's how match play is.  Your opponent plays well, you play well, she plays a little better, a couple shots here and there, and there's the match.  It just was    I just felt like I played really solid today but not that extra, you know.
Q.  Inaudible?
MICHELLE WIE:  Well, yeah.  It was a learning experience obviously, you know, first match play event as a professional and I felt like I did well to go to the quarterfinals in my first match play against the professionals.  Hopefully I'll do better next year.
Q.  Can you go over the bunker shot at 15?
MICHELLE WIE:  I tried to hit that 9 iron a little bit soft, tried to get under that tree, but like I said, another bad break.  I saw after I hit the ball, it was gravel under my ball.  Like if I could have got into worse lie than that, you know, it was one of those hidden surprises where after you hit the shot you found out that it's like gravel under your ball.

Unfortunately that didn't come out the way I wanted it to.  I felt like I hit a good sandshot after that but obviously wasn't good enough.
Q.  Can I just ask what you'll do between now and the John Deere?
MICHELLE WIE:  Obviously now I have a couple more days, well actually, one more day to practice and go over there, maybe rest a little in the morning and get a round in and get ready for the John Deere because I really feel like, you know, I'm playing well and I can do really well next week.
Q.  Are you happy with the way you played?
MICHELLE WIE:  I'm happy not with the way I played, with how it ended up.  Obviously I'm disappointed that I didn't win today but I still feel satisfied with the way I played.  I didn't lose because I didn't play well.  It's just that I played well and she had a couple shots better than me.  I still feel like it was a good round, but obviously not well enough, so I'm a little disappointed.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT