BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 15, 2018
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How much different was the course and how much more difficult today than past years?  
MICHELLE WIE: It was really difficult.  Knowing how low the scores have been in the past I still thought I had to shoot 6-under par.   
Course is playing really tough today.  Proud of myself for grinding in there and putting myself in a good position.   
 Q.  Noticed on the range less tinkering, which is the bet with David Leadbetter.  A lot of different shot manufacturing.  Is that something you're spending more time doing as you prepare each day?  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, for sure.  I also think in Thailand/Singapore there really wasn't much wind, and I was just hitting one shot all week.  I knew today was going to be windy, so I kind of wanted to hit a couple shots.  I guess I didn't want to forget how to hit a (indiscernible).   
 Q.  The point was made during our broadcast today that you seem more confident.  Not only over the ball, but especially on the putting greens.  You're even carrying yourself with more confidence.  Is that an accurate assessment?  If so, is this the highest your confidence has been in a while?  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, for sure.  I definitely feel more confidence.  Every putt I hit, every shot I hit, I just want to build more confidence on that.   
Definitely having a lot of fun out there, and I think that's the most important thing.   
 Q.  Tell us about the round today.  
MICHELLE WIE: It was a grind.  I mean, this course generally you feel like you have to shoot 10-under par every day.  Today definitely played a little bit differently.   
It was a little chilly with the wind.  I hit a lot longer shots in today than I usually do, so it definitely played tougher.   
 Q.  What stood out about your round today?  Highlights or anything in particular?  
MICHELLE WIE: I just think I just scrambled really well.  Like on 2, I hit it in the trees and then I made like a 15-footer for par.   
Then on 7, you know, the wind completely changed when I hit the shot so I had another 12-footer for par.  I felt like I just scrambled really well today.  Even on 9.  I hit it in the water.   
Yeah, I think on days like this I just feel really proud of myself for staying in there.  Even when I made bogey, not think about it too much, but just to move on and try to make birdie.   
 Q.  Also, when you have a windy day like this and you play well, how much of a confirmation is it that your ball-striking is where you want it to be when you can control it in these winds?  
MICHELLE WIE: For sure.  Yeah, when it's windy you want to feel confident over the ball.  Yeah, definitely feel like I'm just having a lot more fun out there.  Just trying to build confidence every day.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT