U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 2006
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RHONDA GLENN:  Michelle Wie with a round of 72 today.  She is at even par, two strokes off the pace.

Yesterday, Michelle, we saw you on TV rubbing your left wrist a little bit.  What happened and what's its condition now?
 MICHELLE WIE:  I've been having a little trouble with it early on in the year, but I took some time off with it earlier in the year.  It's better today and it was weak yesterday when I hit into the rough yesterday a couple of times.  It wasn't in perfect shape, but I rested it yesterday and I kind of like rubbed it in today, and it was okay.
RHONDA GLENN:  There was a lot of amazement after that one putt par after the unplayable lie.  Just briefly go over that hole.
 MICHELLE WIE:  I didn't hit a great tee shot.  I was very unhappy with the way I hit that tee shot.  I went over.  Luckily they found the ball.  I called unplayable, took two club lengths and saw the area where I was going to drop it, and I'm look, oh, great, I'm either going to be in a weed or a mud patch.  It landed on that little grass area and I hit it and it kind of rolled into a really bad spot.  I was not happy with it.  It was like in the middle of the mud, there was like a weed behind my ball, and Greg's face was priceless after he saw where I dropped the ball.  He's like, "That's your drop?"  I'm like, "Yeah."  I hit an 8 iron and aimed for a little bit longer because the pin was kind of tucked.  It was a little bit hard to predict how it was going to come out because it was very wet.  I hit that one handed shot, and fortunately it was right where I wanted to hit it.  My putt was about 15 feet, and I was putting very solidly all day, and fortunately that part of the green wasn't very bumpy late in the afternoon.  I hit it right where I wanted to, and it was all in all a very good hole, and right after the ball went into the hole I kind of laughed at myself.  It was pretty ridiculous.
RHONDA GLENN:  When you say one handed shot what are you referring to?  I saw you take your hand off the club a couple times today.
 MICHELLE WIE:  I don't know, just kind of hit it and let it go kind of.  You can't really hold onto it.
Q.  What was the distance with the 8 iron?
MICHELLE WIE:  About like 140.
Q.  Just give us an idea how difficult it was this afternoon when the wind picked up.
 MICHELLE WIE:  It was very tricky getting the ball into the fairway.  It was very tricky because the winds were crossing, into the wind a lot of times.  There was one or two holes where it was like behind us.  The rest of the holes it was like into you or cross wind, so it was obviously very tricky.  Getting to some of the pins that were tucked, the pins didn't look that hard, but they were pretty tucked with the hills coming from the sides.  It felt like they put the pins on the base of the hills, and they were very tricky to get to.  I felt like I played very solidly today, playing smart, and I felt good.
Q.  How many double rounds did you play when you played in the Men's Public Links, and did you have double rounds when you won your Women's Pub Links?
 MICHELLE WIE:  Definitely.  It was pretty ridiculous at public links.  These USGA tournaments can get pretty ridiculous basically.  I've played a lot of 36 hole match play, played 36 holes in the U.S. Open qualifying obviously, but it's going to be the first time playing 36 holes in a U.S. Open.  So it's going to be very interesting tomorrow.  I think it's going to be a lot of fun.  Obviously it's going to be a very long day, but it's going to be interesting.
RHONDA GLENN:  How will you keep your pace for the 36 holes?  How will you make yourself play well?
 MICHELLE WIE:  I think I'm just not going to take it too seriously.  It's going to be a fun ride, playing 36 holes in one day.  It still feels like Friday to me for some reason.  I'm just going to not really take it too seriously.  I'm just going to play the way I've been playing, try not to pump myself up too much too early, just play another round of golf.
Q.  Just curious, A, how you feel about playing 36 holes teeing off in about 13 hours?  And what do you think Annika was doing this afternoon while you guys were grinding it out out there?
 MICHELLE WIE:  You know, I don't know.  I don't know what Annika is doing.  I don't know what was going on in her mind.  13 hours?  Oh, God.  I'd better go home quick.

I've done it before at McDonald's.  I teed off    when I finished, I counted, I teed off in like ten hours.  But I just think that I have to go home, get a good night's sleep, and tomorrow it's going to be good that we're going off early so we don't end that late.  But I think tomorrow just play hole by hole, and eventually it will add up to 36.
Q.  Would you take us through the 17th hole, the problems you had in the sand trap and what that sand is like trying to get out of there?
 MICHELLE WIE:  17th hole, I hit a really good 6 iron, I just kind of hit it like five yards    like seven yards right of where I wanted to, and the wind didn't touch it one bit.  It just went into that right bunker, I was in a puddle, and where I dropped it wasn't that much better, but it was closer than going to the other side of the puddle.  But where I dropped it, it was obviously a lot    it was very wet, and I just didn't know how hard to hit it.  It was very mushy but then it kind of felt like there wasn't a lot of sand in it.  I wasn't very sure and obviously I didn't hit it hard enough.  I came back to the puddle, dropped it almost in the same area and didn't hit it hard enough again.  But I made a very good two putt from off the green.  It was a very tricky putt and I felt like I made a very good two putt there.
RHONDA GLENN:  Michelle, thanks so much.  Good luck tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT