HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 6, 2006
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DANA GROSS RHODE:  Thanks for coming in, Michelle.  You just won your first round of the tournament.  Can you talk about coming on to the Tour and winning your first round out here?
MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah, you know, this is the first time that I've been in a match play against the professionals, and obviously I did a lot in USGA events last year, but it's a little different.

You know, I thought it would be a little different coming into this event, but match play is the same, and, you know, I haven't played match play in a long time.  So I just got off to a rocky start but I did good.
Q.  The second hole, I assume you were just practicing, but it looked like you were holing out your putts because you forgot you didn't have to, or were you just practicing putts?
MICHELLE WIE:  It was really weird this morning.  They came up to us and like, you can't practice putting after you're done, but they told us we could hole out.  So I just holed out because we weren't allowed to practice.
Q.  It took you a while to get into the rhythm of match play after the first few holes?  And when did you feel comfortable with the whole situation?
MICHELLE WIE:  I just got off to a bad start, my first tee shot went right.  I played good the second hole.  I just missed that put.  I played really good the third hole.

So, you know, I was playing really solid all day long from the start.  Obviously the first hole was not as I planned, didn't go as I planned but after that, I just    it was really nice.
Q.  It looks like Christina Kim is winning her match right now, but obviously anything could happen.  Have you ever played with Christina at all?
MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah, I've played a lot with her in practice rounds and tournament rounds.
Q.  Are the two of you friendly?
MICHELLE WIE:  I've played with her a lot.  She's really fun to talk to, she calls me sometimes.  She's a nice girl and it's going to be fun tomorrow.
Q.  Does this have a different feel, this tournament?
MICHELLE WIE:  When you're out here in a regular stroke play event, you have to play    if you kind of go off to a rookie start, you have other holes to make up.  But in match play, if you don't play good one day, then you're out of it.  So kind of like stroke play, you play two rounds, you make the cut and you guarantee you're playing four days.  Nothing is guaranteed here, and I think it makes it a lot more challenging and a lot more intense and I think it's going to be a lot of fun.
Q.  This must be quite an exciting year for you.  Where for the rest of the year are you most looking forward to playing?
MICHELLE WIE:  This week, I'm just focusing on this week.  It's a lot of fun so far.

But next week is going to be a lot of fun playing the John Deere.  It's going to be my third men's event this year I think and I'm really looking forward to it.  Obviously I love the golf course and I love the tournament, the people are so friendly there.

And obviously going over to Evian and the (Women's) British Open, I think it's going to be a fabulous year.  I mean, I'm not really sure which one is my favorite but I think it's going to be a lot of fun.
Q.  You will have done a lot of traveling by the time the year is over, is this how you see your game developing, being a player who plays all around the world?
MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah, definitely, I love playing in different countries.  I love playing in different tours.  I just love being able to be free like this.  It's just I don't really like being tied down in one place and I just love moving around.  Ever since I was like two, my parent dragged me over to Rome and all over the place.  So it's in my blood to be on a plane going somewhere and I absolutely love it.
Q.  This is your second run through the New York area in the last month or so.  Have you had a chance to spend any time here or take in anything; do you like this region?
MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah, I do.  You know, it's a lot of fun.  There's a lot of good golf courses out here, and this is    I've been to New York, New York City and I love New York City.  It's a lot of fun.  Obviously New Jersey and the suburbs, yeah, it's a lot different from the City, but it's a lot different.  Right here it's very countryside, a lot of horse farms, a lot of farms.

So I really enjoy it.  I love seeing how you can just drive three hours how different it is and it's a lot of fun.
Q.  Christina is a very emotional player, wears her emotions on her sleeve and you don't, how do you deal with that?  Do you ignore that; do you like that; do you not like that?
MICHELLE WIE:  Well, everyone's different.  I mean, I don't know if I'm an unemotional player or emotional player; I really haven't figured that out yet.

Obviously Christina gets very excited as you can see in the Solheim Cup.  It's very fun and interesting to watch.  She's a great player and I look forward to playing with her if she does advance today.
Q.  Inaudible?
MICHELLE WIE:  I hit a sand wedge and a 7 iron to the par 3.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT