U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 2, 2006
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Another close call in a major.  How you able to get yourself in contention, major after major after major?  You came so close once again?
 MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah, I think my game feels very solid right now.  I feel like my putting was very solid today.  I made putts when I needed to, and I hit the fairway when I needed to.  But obviously there was a couple of shots where I wish I could take back.  But my game feels very solid right now.
Q.  Which shots would you like to play over if you could?
 MICHELLE WIE:  Well, obviously some of the holes where I didn't hit the fairway, like the 13th hole, I wish I could take that back.  There's always a couple of shots you'd like to take back, but you can never really do that, so it's pointless to try to figure out which ones.
Q.  Did the two rounds present any challenges to you that surprised you?
 MICHELLE WIE:  Not really.  It didn't really feel like 36 holes.  I played hole by hole, taking my time, enjoying the view kind of thing.  And it was really actually very nice today.
Q.  What do you take away from this major?  What's the biggest thing you'll take home with you?
 MICHELLE WIE:  I think confidence in my putting.  There's been a lot of talk about she can't putt, that kind of stuff.  And I really feel like I showed this week that I can really putt because I made putts when I needed to.  And I felt like the speed of my putts were the best ever, and I feel like my game is getting better and better.
Q.  What's going to get you to that over the threshold of winning that major or winning that tournament?
 MICHELLE WIE:  Well, obviously playing a shot or two better would get me there.  But I feel like I'm playing very solid now.  I'm playing as hard as I can, and it's going to happen.  It didn't happen this week, but it might happen later on.  And you can't really predict.  Obviously my irons weren't the greatest today later on, but I feel like I just have to keep on grinding, keep on playing, and it will happen.
Q.  Were there a few key holes for you?
 MICHELLE WIE:  Obviously I hit a really good drive and I really had a really bad break.  I was going through that really thick heather laying in front of the bunker.  I didn't have a really good layup.  I tried to hit a 56 into the fairway, but that thing was so steep it was like hitting into a wall.  And I just didn't get it quite to the fairway.  I had a 7 iron, I thought I hit it okay.  That took one bounce, that was like the end of the bunker.  That bunker was a cave; it was pretty ridiculous.  I thought I hit an awesome bunker shot and an awesome putt.  I thought that was a big momentum for me.
Q.  Was there a putt you made today that you think the old Michelle wouldn't have made?
 MICHELLE WIE:  I think the old Michelle would have made all these putts.  Oh, I putt bad one week    there's always going to be something that's not perfect with my game.  And unfortunately my putting was a little weaker than the rest of my game, but it feels like it's getting really good.
Q.  We kept seeing    it's hard to believe the wrist doesn't somehow affect your game.
 MICHELLE WIE:  Early on in this year, like last year, too, I hurt my wrist a little bit.  Two years ago I kind of hit like a rock in the practice round.  That kind of strained it a little bit.  And it was acting up a little bit early on in the year and I took a lot of time off, actually.

And obviously the first day it was very wet.  I got into the rough a lot, and it kind of acted up again.  But I took the afternoon really taking care of it and it feels absolutely fine right now.
Q.  Why did you pull it off in the rough?  There's a lot of different places we saw your hand come off the club.
MICHELLE WIE:  When that happens I didn't really hit a good shot.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
MICHELLE WIE:  I don't know.
Q.  It's just odd.  I've never seen that much before.
 MICHELLE WIE:  I just hit a bad shot here and there.  And the rough, you just can't really hold on to a club, it's just too much shock.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 MICHELLE WIE:  I fly to New Jersey tomorrow and get a practice round in.  I'll see the headlines.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 MICHELLE WIE:  It's very cool.  It's very different than any part of America.  It doesn't really feel like America.  The golf course was very links type.  And there was a lot of beautiful houses.  I had some really great seafood here.  I had a lot of fun here.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT