MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 9, 2006
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIPBulle Rock Golf CourseHavre de Grace, MarylandJune 09, 2006Second RoundAn interview with:
MICHELLE WIE

PAUL ROVNAK:  Thanks for coming in.  Great way to bounce back today 4 under par 68.  I'm told it's tough hole locations out there.  Go ahead and talk about your day and then take some questions.
MICHELLE WIE:  I felt I was hitting the ball very solidly today, putting very solidly and today some of the putts went in.  Obviously some of the putts didn't go in.  But I felt like I played as well as yesterday.  I feel like I'm playing really well right now and if I can get just things going I think I can shoot really low out here.
PAUL ROVNAK:  We'll take questions.
Q.  The way you hit it out there, do you think you got the most out of your round today?
MICHELLE WIE:  No, I don't think so.  I left a lot of putts out there.  But I still feel like I'm stroking it really well.  I just, these greens are very tricky.  They put the holes in very tricky areas.  So I felt like I was playing really well.

Hopefully get some more putts to drop in.  But obviously today I made a lot more putts than I did yesterday.  So I think that if I keep this trend going I think I'll be fine.
Q.  How important was the way you finished last night to coming out today and playing well?
MICHELLE WIE:  I think it was very important.  I was only 12 hours apart there, so it was like I was capable of playing it, but I think it was very important for my confidence that I can, that I made three birdies.  And I was playing very well yesterday and then the last four holes kind of showed it.  And then it really helped today.

Hopefully I can keep the trend going for tomorrow and the day after.
Q.  Does it help you when Dorothy was playing as well as she was earlier?
MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah.  You know, her making a lot of putts it was like, oh, the ball can go in the hole.  So it gave me confidence too.  And she played great out there.

But I think it was fun playing with her.  It was a lot of fun.
Q.  If you had to compare your game now to a year ago when you were in this tournament, and finished second, finished very strong, where do you think you've improved?  What are you working on improving?
MICHELLE WIE:  Just the consistency of my game.  Fairways and greens.  Better strategy.  And last year I played very well here.  Ball striking was really good and I made a lot of putts.  So hopefully I can change that from last year to this year.  And I feel like I'm just    I just feel like I'm more mature out there.  That's a really general answer, but that's how I feel.
Q.  Do you ever consult Greg on putts and reading them?
MICHELLE WIE:  No.  I just read them by myself.
Q.  When did you start that and what do you think you'll gain from doing it all yourself?
MICHELLE WIE:  Well, I think that it was started from in October, I think.  Because I always read the greens by myself when I practice and my dad caddied for me, he started reading the putts for me and then I kind of kicked him off, so you know.

So I just feel like I have more confidence in myself trusting myself and it's pretty impossible for a caddy to know how hard you're going to hit the ball.

So I feel like I was taking matters into my own hands.
Q.  Do you concentrate more on line, or speed?
MICHELLE WIE:  I think speed.  Today out there it's a little bit tricky.  In the morning it was a lot faster than the afternoon.  But, yeah, I think about speed.  I try to think about speed more than the line.
Q.  Momentum is such a big part of a good round.  Could you talk about your save on four, nine, and you didn't get up and down on eight.  You hit two great shots on four and nine and eight.  You're there on the fringe and you don't get up and down.  Was that disappointing?
MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah, it was very disappointing.  It was kind of frustrating.

Felt I hit a good chip.  I just kind of misjudged the speed of it, because if you're a little bit long it will go over the ridge.  So I think I was a little bit too tentative on that shot.  But I hit two great shots going there.  I hit a good chip.  It didn't go the way I wanted it to.  I hit a good putt.  It didn't fall in, but I hit it where I wanted to.  But I hit every shot solid and the way I wanted to.  But it is okay.
Q.  The up and down on four?
MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah, I think that was really good up and down, I think.  I kind of hit my chip shot kind of long, but like I said, my putting felt really good.  And I kind of hit it right where I read it and it actually fell in the hole so it was really nice.
Q.  Did you have a target score in mind?
MICHELLE WIE:  Obviously I was trying to shoot really low today.  I felt like going off in the morning using the momentum from yesterday I was trying to shoot really low.  But I'm pretty satisfied with my round today.  I still have two more days, so...
Q.  Do you like your position?
MICHELLE WIE:  Well, yeah, I think so.  I don't think I'm too far back.  A lot of players haven't gone out yet, but I feel very comfortable where I am right now.  I'm really looking forward to tomorrow and the day after, because I really feel I can play really well.
Q.  What's the hardest tee shot for you out there?
MICHELLE WIE:  Well, I'm not really sure.  Five got pretty tricky after they moved it back.  But as long as you hit your driver solid, none of the holes should be tough, right?
Q.  That's what they say.  I wouldn't know.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Can you take us over your scorecard.
MICHELLE WIE:  10, I hit my driver, I hit my 3 wood kind of right, right edge of the fairway.  And hit my 9 iron to about like eight feet.  Made the putt.
PAUL ROVNAK:  15.
MICHELLE WIE:  15, par five, I hit a driver and then I hit a 5 iron.  Yeah.  5 iron.  I was in the rough.  And then I chipped out, I chipped on to the green and I had about a 15 foot putt.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Bogey on 17.
MICHELLE WIE:  I hit it my tee shot left.  I hit a 6 iron, I think.  I hit it left, over.  I was in the bunker.  And then I hit a really good bunker shot to about eight feet and missed it.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Then bounce back with birdie on 18.
MICHELLE WIE:  I hit a 3 wood and then I hit a 9 iron    no, a pitching wedge.  A pitching wedge to about 20 feet.
PAUL ROVNAK:  And then No. 1.
MICHELLE WIE:  3 wood and then 9 iron and then about 12 feet.
PAUL ROVNAK:  No. 2.  Par 5.
MICHELLE WIE:  Driver, 3 wood, chip shot with 60 and to about three feet.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Any more questions for Michelle?
Q.  How many drivers did you hit today?
MICHELLE WIE:  I don't know.  You're asking me?
Q.  More 3 woods, right?
MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah, I think so.  There's a lot of layup holes here.  You can't really hit a lot of drivers.  But I would say about half.  So about six, seven, eight.  Five.
Q.  Have you ever reached 2 in two shots?
MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah, I think I can.  It was a little bit wet today.  But if it's good up in that area, then I can.
Q.  And under what conditions, if any, would you give it a crack on 11, or are there any?
MICHELLE WIE:  If it was down wind and it was a little bit dry.
Q.  What have you done the last two rounds that will help you going into this weekend?
MICHELLE WIE:  I think that just the confidence that I'm building with the last two days.  I feel like I'm getting to know the course a lot better now that I played, that I have two rounds under my belt.  I feel like I really have a feel for these greens now and I think I'm ready to shoot a really low score.
Q.  With playing on Monday, two rounds in one day, will you use this extra time the rest of today to rest and prepare for Saturday's round?
MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah.  I feel like my energy level is back to normal.  I rested a lot on Tuesday and Wednesday and Thursday    no, not Thursday.  Tuesday and Wednesday.  And I feel like my energy level is back to normal and I'm going to practice a little bit, obviously take the rest of the day off and get ready for tomorrow.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Okay.  Thank you.  Thank you, Michelle.
MICHELLE WIE:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT