U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2006
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 MICHELLE WIE:  I felt like I had a very solid round today, lots of pars.  That's what the U.S. Open is.  You have to have pars when you're in trouble, get away with just a bogey or a par.  And I felt like I did that today.  I hit a lot of fairways, I hit a lot of greens.  I know that it's going to get better and better.  And I think that's a good opening round.
Q.  Nobody has gone lower than 2 under.
 MICHELLE WIE:  It doesn't seem very hard.  People might think, oh, the greens are soft, so it must be playing easier.  There's so many different playing conditions, it wasn't that easy.  We'll have to see, only half the day past, so there's a lot more people going out.  We'll have to see.
Q.  When you're playing in a major, does that thought kick in or does it wait until the final round?
 MICHELLE WIE:  I don't think that    when you practice, you hype yourself up, it's a major, come on, I think it's going to be good.  But once you're actually in the tournament, in a major, major is just a tournament it's not like you're playing any other sport.  You're still playing golf, and you're still playing on a golf course.  You know there obviously is that extra thing, because it is the U.S. Open, but when I'm out there I'm just playing golf.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
MICHELLE WIE:  I think so, you just have to put yourself in that mode.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 MICHELLE WIE:  I think making birdie on the last hole Wilma my lunch taste a lot better.  I felt like I could have made a lot of putts out there.  I had a lot of solid putts, I hit them right where I wanted to.  Unfortunately they didn't all go in.  The putt that I made on the last hole really boosted my confidence for tomorrow.
Q.  There's always a premium on par at U.S. Open.  What par are you most proud of today?
 MICHELLE WIE:  Well, I think on the third hole where I had to layup and I hit my wedge shot a little bit long, it was off the green and I holed that putt.  I think it was a very good par, because that putt was very hard.  It was downhill, very fast.  I'm very proud of that par.  And obviously there's a lot of other pars I'm very proud of, but I just can't think of it right now.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
MICHELLE WIE:  About 15 feet.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah, I was hoping to get casual water, so I could drop the ball where I wanted to.  The grain wasn't going in the direction of the hole.  It was kind of going sideways and I had to hit like a 5 iron out of there.  It was so wet.  And plus the green's about 50 yards on top of you, so you just can't hit a 5 iron that high out of the rough.  I think I made a smart move to layup, because it was only the first round.
Q.  Is it distracting having the entire gallery following you, watching every move you make, analyze every shot you make and critiquing you in every way you can imagine?
 MICHELLE WIE:  I'm pretty used to it by now.  I'm pretty used to everyone trying to figure me out.  I think it's pretty cool.  The gallery was surprisingly big today.  I thought that since the weather wasn't that good this morning, nobody would come out.  It was nice to see a lot of people, walking up the 18th green.  The grandstand was full.  It was a good feeling.
Q.  How does it compare in playing with the men, is it different?
 MICHELLE WIE:  Obviously it's a little bit different, but it's not comparable, it's like comparing apples to oranges.
Q.  On 3 where you made the putt, you asked for assistance.  And then on 18 you went with your own read.  Is it when you need a little help or uncertain you ask for it?
 MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah, on 3 it was a very tricky putt.  I didn't see the break right away.  It kind of looked different from both sides, so I ask him for a little confidence here and there.  It's nice to, when you're not really feeling that comfortable with your break, it's good to ask your caddie what it is.  But on the other holes I felt very comfortable with my line.  But when it's really iffy, I'm going to ask Greg.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
MICHELLE WIE:  About 15 feet.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 MICHELLE WIE:  Well, I'm not really expecting it.  When I come out to the golf course I'll see how it plays.
Q.  Is one of your biggest dreams to win this tournament?  You've always talked about winning The Masters, how about this tournament?
 MICHELLE WIE:  Well, definitely it's one of my goals, one of my dreams to win a major.  When you're out here you just can't put too much pressure on myself, "Oh, my gosh, it's my biggest dream to win this tournament."  That puts too much pressure on yourself.  So when I'm out here I'm just playing golf.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT