KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 2, 2006
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
The choice between chipping and putting, what was going through your mind?
MICHELLE WIE:  I thought I had a little more chance making it chipping and I had no idea that I was going to leave that shot.  I hit it the way I wanted to.  I guess it wasn't meant to be.
Q.  Is it safe to say you were thinking about a win, not getting into a playoff?
MICHELLE WIE:  No.  I mean, obviously I was thinking I could make it.  And if I didn't make it, birdie.  Unfortunately, it got away from me.  I think I know what I have to work on now.
Q.  What were the emotions like the last few holes?
MICHELLE WIE:  I was really excited.  It was my match first major.  And playing with Natalie and Lorena, it was super fun.  The crowd was really excited.  I was having a lot of fun.  I was a little bit nervous, but I had a lot of fun out there.
Q.  When you hit your shot on 16, Karrie holed out like 30 seconds later.  Did you know?
MICHELLE WIE:  Greg told me, "Karrie holed out."  I was like, Oh.

"Just so you don't get shocked, Karrie holed out on the 18th hole."  Do you think it's going to help telling me that on that hole (laughter)?  But I wish mine would have gone in on the 16th hole.  That would have been sweet.
Q.  When did he tell you?
MICHELLE WIE:  When I was on the green.
Q.  On 16?
MICHELLE WIE:  Yes.
Q.  You heard the noise?
MICHELLE WIE:  Yes.  I didn't know what it was.  I think Greg asked the TV guy, and he said, "Just so you don't get shocked later on."
Q.  Were you shocked?
MICHELLE WIE:  A little bit.  Did she get it in on two.  I couldn't believe it.  She did awesome.  She didn't play as great as yesterday, but she came back.  And it just shows how good of a player she is.  She's awesome.
Q.  Did it help your decision about going for it on 18?
MICHELLE WIE:  There was no question that I was going to go for it.  I hit a great drive and I hit my 5 iron perfect.  If it didn't roll as much, it would have been good, but that's what it is.
Q.  What about the last putt?
MICHELLE WIE:  I thought it was going in as soon as I hit it.  I hit it the way I wanted to.  The whole day I was missing it on the low side, but this one I felt so good when I hit it.  I guess I'll just win later on.
Q.  Summarize the week.  Are you happy, a little disappointed, both?
MICHELLE WIE:  I'm happy with the way I played in my first major as a professional, I guess, but right now I wish I would have played a little better like the last nine holes.  But I'm still happy with the way I finished.  If I don't get this close in the next five minutes, I think I'll get some money. (Laughter)
Q.
Any particular shot you would like to have over on the back nine?
MICHELLE WIE:  I think I would love to get the shot on the par 3 where I kind of hooked it into the bunker, but overall I felt like I played really solid out there.
Q.  The putt on 15, talk about that in the rough and short of the green?  Were you thinking you might be out of it.
MICHELLE WIE:  I was thinking, You have to make this putt.  No matter what, you just have to.  And I kind of rolled it in.  I just told myself over and over I have to make it.  And I said I could make it, so I was very glad that I did.
Q.  You talked a little bit about destiny yesterday.  Is that still how you're feeling?
MICHELLE WIE:  Yes, I guess.  Karrie holing it out, or eagleing it out on the last hole, me not making that putt, maybe it's not meant to be.  But I played my hardest out there.
Q.  What did you think about Lorena, for her to come back and make that eagle?
MICHELLE WIE:  She didn't play as well as she did the last couple of days, but I think she played awesome in the last couple of holes, eagleing the last hole.  She hit that 5 wood perfect.  It was pretty cool.
Q.  What did you tell her?
MICHELLE WIE:  I just told her good luck in the playoff and stuff like that.  Good eagle.
Q.  What was going through your head on that last putt?
MICHELLE WIE:  I was a little bit sad.  It was like, Oh, my gosh I can't believe I missed it.  But I'm glad where I finished.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
MICHELLE WIE:  My trainer is coming down.  Paul is coming down next week to Hawaii to have another kind of workout.  That's coming up.  And then Easter is coming up, so I can eat junk food now.  Thank God for that.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT