MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 8, 2006
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Feel lucky to get in with 71?
MICHELLE WIE:  Well, you know, I can't really explain it.  But it felt like I played really well today.  But even though I played real well, 71 still feels like a good score because I felt like I was playing well all day.  I couldn't really get anything going, but the last four holes seemed like I was back to normal.  So hopefully tomorrow morning I can keep that going.
Q.  Between Monday and all week there seems to have been a lot of focus on your putting.  Has it been accurate or do you think it's been    hasn't been as bad as people thought?
MICHELLE WIE:  Well, you know, it's just weird, tricky greens here, and it was just some weird putts today that I had.

I didn't have like uphill putts every time, you know.  It was just I feel like I've been stroking the ball very solidly, hitting the ball where I want to.  But I think my putting is getting better.  It's getting there.
Q.  At what point were you about to pull your hair out?
MICHELLE WIE:  I think about, I mean, the second hole, I knew I should have made birdie and the third hole I stuck it close and all these birdie chances I even got there and on the fifth hole I made a double but I was ready to like
Q.  Ready to?
MICHELLE WIE:  You really want to know?
Q.  Fill in the blank.
MICHELLE WIE:  Um, I'll just say yank my hair out.  But I just feel really, I feel good about myself that I hung through and I really fought through the round.

Some shots didn't go the way I wanted to, but I feel, really felt like I held on and my hair's still in, so I'm happy.
Q.  How about that par putt on 14?  Did that kind of save your round and set up that finish?
MICHELLE WIE:  Oh, yeah, 14, I mean, you know, I guess I just hit the first one.  I don't know what happened there.  Like I said, my stroke felt really good.  It finally caught the hole and went in and actually felt really good that for once I made a putt and I think that really helped my confidence.
Q.  Can you describe what it's like going from playing against 152 men on Monday and this Tour on a Thursday?
MICHELLE WIE:  It's not that different.  It's not really that different.  Monday was so hectic, it was like a circus out there.  But it was fun.  This is really fun too.  I'm really excited.  It's a Major championship.

But it doesn't really feel that different.  I'm playing on the same, like not the same golf course, but I'm playing on a golf course and I'm just basically trying to focus on my game.  It's a little bit shorter, obviously, and you know, it doesn't really feel that different, obviously.
Q.  You didn't sense the crowd was significantly smaller than what followed you on Monday?
MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah, what happened on Monday, you can really see anywhere else kind of, you know.  But Monday was fun.  The crowds were very supportive today, even though it was, you know, not quite as huge as Monday, but they're very supportive of me and they stayed until the end.  So I was very happy.
Q.  What did you think of Tad getting the one spot out of the Hawaii sectional qualifying?  I can't say his last name.
MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah, I think it's awesome.  I think it's great that he played really well on the sectional.  I didn't really hear much about it.  But I think it's awesome that as young as he is    how old is he?  Like 15?  15?  I think it's awesome.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
MICHELLE WIE:  I don't know.
Q.  If it hadn't have been this tournament this week schedule wise, wide open schedule, which sectional would you have chosen to play in?  New Jersey or Hawaii?
MICHELLE WIE:  I'm not really sure.  I'm not really good at picking spots.  I just leave that up to my mom and dad.  I don't know where I'm going.  I just show up and I play.
Q.  Do you think your chances would be better in a field of 156 with 20 spots, or 1 spot for only 10 or 15?
MICHELLE WIE:  Only 10 or 15 players?
Q.  Yeah.
MICHELLE WIE:  No.  I didn't know that.  Maybe I should have played there.  Now that I missed it, can I have a second chance?  But it was    I think it was very strategic move for me.  There was no possible way that I could have gone to Kauai, but I hope that there was more players out there next year because I really hope that that one spot still stays in Hawaii.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT