KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 31, 2006
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  (No microphone.)
MICHELLE WIE:  I thought it was going to go in.  I was getting ready for my big fist pump.  I was getting psyched up and it went left at the last second.  I can't complain about that shot.  It was a nice par.
Q.  You did a three putt on 13 or so, and then you got two 4 foot par saves.  Is that a point in that round it could have gotten away from you, if you don't make those two par putts?
MICHELLE WIE:  I think those two 4 foot putts were good for the momentum.  I was very glad that I made those par putts, because I was focused and I knew I had to make them and I'm very glad I did.
Q.  You were four back when you started and you're four back now.  Are you disappointed you couldn't make up ground?
MICHELLE WIE:  The conditions were very tough today.  You just couldn't move up the leaderboard.  Being this cold, for me, actually.  With the conditions, it was very hard to shoot another 65 or 66 out there.  So I'm very happy with the way I played today.
Q.  Did you look at the leaderboard at all and notice nobody was really doing anything?
MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah.  I mean, I was looking at it once in a while.  No one really did anything.  I was out there playing my own game and trying to make par when I had to make par, trying to make birdie, as many as I could.  I just played my game.
Q.  When you saw Lorena at around 12 and 11 and hanging in there, did you have a number in mind, I don't want to get any farther away from her than x?
MICHELLE WIE:  Not really.  I knew what I wanted to play in my mind.  I knew there were a lot of good birdie opportunities out there.  I knew there were a lot of holes where I had to make par.  I just tried to take one hole at a time.
Q.  (No microphone.)
MICHELLE WIE: I'm not really sure.  I felt like my tee shots were pretty solid, iron shots were pretty solid, my putts were pretty solid.  The two chip shots I had were pretty good.  Overall, I feel my game is pretty solid.
Q.  What were you thinking on the chip on 10?
MICHELLE WIE:  Chip on 10?
Q.  The first hole.
MICHELLE WIE:  I had a chip on 10?
Q.  You had the downhill lie.  You were basically right in front of the bunker, right by the bunker.
MICHELLE WIE:  Oh, on the 11th hole, yeah.  That was a hard shot from the second shot.  I had like a downhill lie.  The trees are hanging from the right.  If I had my choice I would have bumped it up there, kind of a fade shot, but I had the hill in front of me so I was afraid I was going to hit into that.  Basically, that was the only shot I could play.  It went more left than I wanted it to.  I kind of had a bad break with the lie.
Q.  (No microphone)?
MICHELLE WIE:  My Spanish?  It's very good.  Not good at all.  All I know are Taco Bell phrases, which I've basically forgotten by now because I gave up fast food for Lent.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
MICHELLE WIE:  Well, starting with Se Ri Pak and Grace Park, there are a lot of awesome Korean players out here and there are a lot more coming up.  I think that's great, to have large international players like that.  I'm really glad to be a part of that.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT