CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 18, 2017
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Sum up your day for us.
MICHELLE WIE: I felt like our group collectively did really well today.  It was a fun day.  No real wind, so a lot of the holes were attackable.  I felt like I just had a good rhythm all day today.
Q. You've played a lot of golf.
MICHELLE WIE: I am so tired.  (Laughter.)
Q. How are you doing?  How do you keep your stamina?
MICHELLE WIE: I've been sitting as much as I can.  Last week I was like laying down on the golf course.  Today you might catch my sitting down any chance I get.
Stacy was playing behind me yesterday, and I just like sat down in the middle of the fairway, sat down on the green.  I just like I kept waiving at them.
Basically I'm just a hermit crab this week.  I'm just sleeping as much as I can and not leaving my room; just really trying to keep my energy levels up.
Q. You had so much good momentum going until you had the health issue.  Did you feel like it's coming back?
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, for sure.  You know, it was very frustrating.  I really didn't think I would become rusty, but honestly, before Asia I didn't really do much.  I would try to work out and I then couldn't.  Basically just being in bed.  I thought it was going to be same old thing.
And then I really did struggle for a bit just really trying to get my feel back, but every week was an improvement.  Every week I felt like I got a little part of my game back.  From last week I felt pretty good.  I'm just excited to end the season on a good note.
I just want to go out there and try to play the best I can.  I wish there were a couple more tournaments after this, like three or four more.
But I'm just excited that I'm out here playing again.
Q. Overall, what has this year meant to you to get yourself back into contention and climb up the world rankings and all that?
MICHELLE WIE: It means a lot to me.  I gained a lot of confidence this year.  I had a really tough year last year, couple years.  Just really feeling like my old self.  Really feeling comfortable out there and having fun, and that's when I play my best.
Hopefully keep that going for the rest of the season and for next year.
Q. Had your doctors told you that, you know, after the operation fatigue and stamina would be an issue?
MICHELLE WIE: Well, no.  It's just I was on my bed for six weeks.  You know, just no working out; putting was pretty much it.  I was planning to practice before I went to Asia and the storms came, and so I was inside.
Basically, I mean I'll never played six weeks in a row again, and I told my caddie if I ever want to play six weeks again just punch me in the face.
Yeah, it's just tough just not being able to work out and being at your top.  I had to figure out my iron distances.  Wasn't hitting as far.  But every week has been an improvement, and I'm up and playing and I'm just extremely grateful that I'm here at CME and playing.
Just trying to make the most out of the opportunity.
Q. Couple technical things.  Are you basically playing the same way?  Stacy noticed your cut is not as big.  Have you made some changes?
MICHELLE WIE: You know, I think it honestly had to do with the driver a little bit.  Like the 3-woods that kind of -- you know, my driver and my 3-wood and my 5-wood I noticed were kind of cracked in Asia.
I think it just had to do with the travel and whatnot.  It was jut all of a sudden.  I mean, I changed drivers and just -- still playing the cut.  Just wasn't happening today.
Q. Different driver this week?
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, changed all of them in Japan.
Q. Just your putting.  Update us on the current method or methods.
MICHELLE WIE: Normal.
Q. Conventional?
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah.  I picked a putter up in Japan.  No one was near the Odyssey bag and I just kind of took one.  (Laughing.)
Yeah, I like it.
Q. Are you switching off grips?
MICHELLE WIE: No, same.
Q. Standard?
MICHELLE WIE: For now, yeah.  You never know.
Q. Stacy was saying that when she broke her (indiscernible) to win, you know, she realized you have to take, somehow, take the pressure off yourself and let things happen.  That's easier said than done, isn't it?
MICHELLE WIE: For sure, especially when you've gotten so close so many times.  Obviously there is a lot of pressure just wanting to do it.
For me, how I'm looking at it, I'm just happy to be here.  I'm just extremely grateful that I'm healthy, I'm here playing.  Just grateful, and that's what the mindset I'm going to go into tomorrow with.
Q. When did you change the hair color?
MICHELLE WIE: Probably happened around day three of cabin fever.  I was just really bored.
Q. You did it yourself?
MICHELLE WIE: Yep.  Woke up, and a couple weeks later I just told would my mom to grab the kitchen scissors and just to cut all my hair off.
I kind of went crazy after being in bed for that long.  It's not good for me.  There are too many things going out there.
Q. Has it grown on you, the blonde, or do you still surprise yourself when you look in the mirror?
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah.  Oh, no, I do.  I surprise myself, but I like it.
Q. Is this tape precautionary?
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, just have arthritis in my wrist.  It's just an ongoing issue.  It's okay.  Just looks cool.
Q. What's been the reaction of others to your new hair color?
MICHELLE WIE: Definitely walk by people and they don't recognize me for sure.
Q. That's got to be weird.
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah.  People on tour.
Q. Oh, wow, really?
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah.
Q. That's funny.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT