WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 29, 2005
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAUL ROVNAK:  Michelle, thanks for coming and speaking with us.  A lot better score for you, 5 under, just talk about your day.
MICHELLE WIE:  You know, obviously conditions were so much better, a lot less rain, a little bit of rain in the beginning, but it was really nice.  It was a lovely day.  You know, actually it was really nice.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Can you talk about the finish, the three par 5s?
MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah, 15, I hit 4 wood and I just hit a 3 iron and ended up just short of the green on the right and then I chipped and put.

Then on 17, I was like, really like the best putt I made ever.  I hit it out in the really thick stuff and just chopped it on to the fairway and then I had a 1 iron.  And then I pulled the 1 iron and when I pulled it, I just went over the bunker and over the next bunker and it just like rolled down and then I made the putt.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Take us over your entire score card.  We'll start with the birdie on 2.
MICHELLE WIE:  I hit my driver left into the rough and I hit an 8 iron over there and I had about, three feet.

4, I hit an 8 iron and then I hit it to about nine feet.

7, the par 3, I hit it to three feet and 8 iron.

11, the par 4, that was horrible    let me think.  10 and then 11, oh, yeah, I hit it in the fairway today and then I hit sand wedge to about eight feet.

14, I hit a great 7 iron and then I thought it was going to be perfect but it was short.  It was really short, actually, and then I had about like a 45 foot putt.  Hit my first putt a little bit too long.  I had about like a five foot putt for par and I missed.

18, I hit into the left rough and then I hit a 3 iron to the right rough, or right kind of fringe area and then I chipped and then I had about four feet for birdie.
Q.  Can you talk about the shot on 16?
MICHELLE WIE:  It was, I just hit a really bad putt, yeah.  15, I hit a sand wedge    oh, it was 1 iron, the hybrid.
Q.  When you play with your dad, does it tend to
MICHELLE WIE:  Ask him.  I don't know what he's doing, either.  (Laughter).
Q.  What happened with your putting?  Sometimes he lines it up and sometimes you do, who decides?
MICHELLE WIE:  I don't know, it's up to him.
Q.  Do you listen to what he says    inaudible    the putts that seem to line up, it was about four inches to the right?
MICHELLE WIE:  It's all in his mood.  If he wants to line me up, then he does.  If he doesn't, then he doesn't.
Q.  Inaudible?
MICHELLE WIE:  Sometime I do.
Q.  Yesterday you said you had to birdie the last holes and today you probably felt the same way, you improved, were you concentrating on the last holes as well?
MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah, I was trying to end on a good note.  I wanted to finish under par, and you know, just felt good that I birdied the last three par 5s.
Q.  More people finished the way you did    inaudible?
MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah, definitely.  I mean, you know, after coming from a 3 putt, I felt a little pressure, but making the three birdies, it's really nice, especially on 17, that was a really nice surprise.
Q.  How do you view the situation on the leaderboard now, you're in with a shot?
MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah, definitely I'm under par right now, and we still have two more days and there's a lot happening, and there's a lot going to happen in the next two days.

I don't know, I'm not really    I didn't look at the score board yet, but, you know, it could have been better.  I missed quite a few putts out there, and, you know, I think I can improve for tomorrow.
Q.  Inaudible?
MICHELLE WIE:  Yes, I did.  She's such a great putter and I watched her, she lines up, hits it, makes it.  It was really fun to watch.  You know, it's really fun to play with her when I play with her.
Q.  Inaudible?
MICHELLE WIE:  The one I bogeyed I think, No. 5, whenever I missed that short one.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT