U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 25, 2005
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Top of the leaderboard after three rounds.
 MICHELLE WIE:  I didn't really think about that when I was playing there.  I felt like I was playing a lot better than the last two days.  I am still pretty happy with my round today.
Q.  What are you most amazed, at the fact that there's two amateurs tied for the lead or Annika's sitting five shots back?
MICHELLE WIE:  I don't really notice that stuff.  I am just out there playing my game.
Q.  What does the name Catherine Lacoste mean to you?
 MICHELLE WIE:  Well, I actually saw it on the Golf Channel trivia the other day, she's the only amateur that won the U.S. Open.  It was in 1967.
Q.  What would it mean to you to win?
 MICHELLE WIE:  I haven't really thought about that yet.  If I think about it now put a lot more pressure on myself.  I am just going to play it the way I did today, just play one shot by shot.
Q.  What is it going to take to win this thing tomorrow?  Do you think you got to shoot under par?  Do you think somewhere around what you did today?
 MICHELLE WIE:  I have to shoot under par tomorrow no matter if I win or not, I think I have to shoot under par.
Q.  What do you do with the emotions tomorrow being in the final round and being in the lead?
 MICHELLE WIE:  Well, I think I am a lot better at controlling my emotions than two years ago when I played in the final group.

So hopefully I will do better.
Q.  How exciting is it to play in the final group?
 MICHELLE WIE:  It was great playing in the final group, I haven't really, you know, thought about it.  I mean, I didn't have the time to think about anything.  I was just running around all over the place.
Q.  What do you do between now and tomorrow just to kill time?
MICHELLE WIE:  I am going to practice a little and watch some TV.
Q.  Going back to your tee shots, what do you watch out for on --
MICHELLE WIE:  I just think positively on my tee shots, hopefully I hit them good.
Q.  How many times did you hit driver?
 MICHELLE WIE:  I actually hit it one more time today.  I hit it on the par 5, which was a really good decision.
Q.  Based on the flag, the hole location?
 MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah, hole location it was downwind and I was behind the lead, so go for it.
Q.  Will you watch anything special on TV?
 MICHELLE WIE:  Well, I have a good movie channel on in the hotel, so I will watch that if they have a good movie showing.
Q.  So the key is just to relax?
MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah, relax, you know, get ready for tomorrow.
Q.  Does it feel different than the final round of some of your other big tournaments?
MICHELLE WIE:  Not really.  I am going to treat it the same.
Q.  You grew up watching Tiger Woods -- (inaudible) to what extent was he an inspiration to you?
 MICHELLE WIE:  My dad was really big fan of him and he tried to make my swing like his. I have a lot of pictures of him in my room.  He was a great inspiration.
Q.  Was there a moment on the course you felt better today than any other time?
 MICHELLE WIE:  Yeah, I mean, I was hitting the ball a lot more positively and I think that was great.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
MICHELLE WIE:  The more people that come, the better.
Q.  Talk about you and Morgan, two amateurs being at the top of the leaderboard.
 MICHELLE WIE:  It's great to have two amateurs.  That just shows how much better we are and I think that's great.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT