MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 10, 2005
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MICHELLE WIE: We've got Michelle Wie here in the interview room, 1 under par, 71 gets you to 4 under par for the tournament.  Let's go over your scorecard first.

(Scorecard done.)
Q.   Talk about your thoughts now at the midway point at 4 under par being in the hunt in your first appearance.
MICHELLE WIE: I feel like I'm in a good position now.  It would be really nice, obviously, if I was leading.  My game feels solid.  I played two solid rounds.

Tomorrow, I hope to make some more putts in, who knows?
Q.   How many shots do you think you left out there with the putter today?
MICHELLE WIE: Every single putt.  After that three putt on 11, it was a little hard for me to trust my speed.  I guess it was just bad luck.  I put myself in birdie positions.  It looked good from the fairway.  When I got to the green, it was really hard.  It was pretty tough.  But I still feel like I putted okay.
Q.   Is it tough scoring conditions today?  Nobody seemed to be making anything in your group.
MICHELLE WIE: You know, I don't know.  I didn't really feel like it played that hard.  Some of the pins were kind of tricky.  They didn't seem hard but they kind of were once you got on the greens.  Well, I thought they were.
Q.   Are you feeling much better today?
MICHELLE WIE: Yes, I feel a lot better.  You know, after a good night's sleep yesterday and I didn't eat a lot of breakfast today, so I feel good.
Q.   Is there any advantage being the first group off or is that a disadvantage?
MICHELLE WIE: No, it's a total advantage because it's not hot, for one, and number two, the greens are perfect because they just cut it.  That's great.
Q.   Were you getting frustrated at any point in your putting?
MICHELLE WIE: Of course I was.  You get frustrated unless your birdie putts become par putts and you don't want that.  I was really patient out there.  Hopefully they'll all drop tomorrow.
Q.   Every now and then you seemed to laugh with your caddy.  Was he trying to keep you loose?
MICHELLE WIE: He was cracking me up out there.
Q.   Did you notice the scoreboard, that Laura got it to 8 under and back to 7?  Not many scoreboards out there, but were you watching or not?
MICHELLE WIE: I was watching the scoreboard here and there, but it's going to be an exciting weekend.
Q.   Do you prefer either way, few people watching you with less noise or more people?
MICHELLE WIE: I don't really care.  If I'm playing good, I want a lot of people watching me; if I'm not, I don't want no one.  It's great having a lot of supporters.
Q.   What do you think of Laura's game?
MICHELLE WIE: You can't think of that when you're playing, but one of the holes I try to hit it farther than her.  It's really fun to play with her.
Q.   (Inaudible.)
MICHELLE WIE: 16?  Dear God.  I hit a 3 wood there.
Q.   Were you disappointed with your play on the par 5s?
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I'm very disappointed on my play in the par 5s.  I'll just have to hit more fairways and greens.
Q.   Any more questions?  All right.  Thanks a lot Michelle.  Good luck tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT