MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 9, 2005
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   All right, Michelle, thanks for joining us.  We always appreciate your time.  Major championship, you're 3  under, two off the lead.  Maybe start by your thoughts and how the day went for you.
MICHELLE WIE: Well, I'm two shots behind.  I never really thought about that.  It's very exciting to play today.  The course was in great condition, and I was just thinking about myself today.  I was just feeling so terrible.  I mean, I was like yes, after the siren, and I ran into the clubhouse.  I felt that I played good under the conditions that I was in.  I'll be better tomorrow hopefully, so better scores.
Q.   Questions.  What made you feel terrible?
MICHELLE WIE: I feel really stupid saying this, but I ate too much.  I ate too much, and going into the heat, walking just caused a little indigestion.  It was pretty bad, and then, you know how when your stomach hurts everything else hurts, like your back, and then if it wasn't for the siren, I think I might have quit, because every time I breathed in, and when I breathe out it felt like barf was coming out with it, too.  Sorry for the picture.

Either the break helped me a lot and the Back  9 felt really good.
Q.   Can you take us through your birdie on 15.

Actually, take us through the whole scorecard.

(Scorecard done.)
Q.   We'll continue with questions.  Michelle, could you talk about 13?  Could you see the green from where you were?
MICHELLE WIE: I saw the top of the flag so that was all I could see.  Really, I wasn't aiming for the flag but I was aiming for the left.  I felt good.
Q.   Was that a bad lie?
MICHELLE WIE: It actually wasn't that bad.  Thankfully they cut the rough yesterday, so it wasn't that bad.
Q.   Two back, do you feel like you can win this thing now?
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, definitely.  You know, tomorrow is a whole new day, so hopefully I'll play better each day.
Q.   Are you going to watch what you eat?
MICHELLE WIE: Definitely.  No more.  I'm going to eat just a sandwich, and after I eat I should be hungry, not full.  That's my new rule of eating.
Q.   Did the rain suspension affect your game at all today?
MICHELLE WIE: It affected it positively.  If I couldn't go on after 9, after coming to the clubhouse I was shaking and stuff like that, it was horrible, but after the suspension I was like, okay, just go out there.  The fact that I wasn't feeling that great helped my swing.  I was working on my rhythm.  I was so weak that I couldn't be quick.
Q.   Michelle, before you teed off on the 10th, you had a bag of medicine or something that you consumed.  Was that for your stomach or
MICHELLE WIE: I just take that every round.  I take it in the morning and take it during the round.  It helps my stamina.  It really helped my stomach.  It doesn't taste very good, though.
Q.   You had that water chaser?
MICHELLE WIE: Yes.
Q.   What is it that you're taking?
MICHELLE WIE: It's coffee and vomit    no, it's a whole bunch of herbs, like Ginseng and deer antlers and all of the good stuff.
Q.   You had a few birdie putts that fell a few revolutions going into the hole, trouble reading the greens or miss putts?
MICHELLE WIE: I hit it great.  It was a little bit slower after the rain.  Those are hard putts, and I take a two putt, although it didn't feel very good right after, but it worked out fine.
Q.   All things considered, Michelle, is this where you expected to be at the end of the first round?
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I definitely want to consistently under par rounds, and I was shooting for three or four under, right around the ballpark.  Evidently a lot of the players are playing lower scores, so the mind set has to change, go lower, and hopefully I will be able to achieve my goal.
Q.   You just finished up the 9th when the rain came; is that right?
MICHELLE WIE: Yes.
Q.   When you made the birdie on 10, you seemed kind of excited.  Was that kind of I'm feeling better, I'm ready to go now?
MICHELLE WIE: When I hit it, the ball was actually spinning, and then when I made the birdie, I felt better.  I guess birdies are the best remedies for stomachaches.
Q.   Can you talk about the flop shot on 12 the par 3?
MICHELLE WIE: Oh, yeah, that was good.  I felt really good after hitting that shot.  I practice a lot of those shots in Hawaii.  I'm proud I could do it.  Hopefully I won't have those shots in the next couple of days, but if I do, hopefully I can do it the same way.
Q.   Do we have any more questions for Michelle?

Michelle, you've gotten a lot more media attention than a lot of players on this Tour that are professionals, and people have not always been supportive of you being on the Tour.  How do you feel?  Is there extra pressure.
MICHELLE WIE:  No, I'm not the kind of person who will back down because people don't want me here and stuff like that.  I'm having fun.  I'm not really sure that I get a lot of extra attention and stuff like that, but if I do, that's great.  If I don't, that's okay.  I'm just really having fun out there.  Maybe not today in particular, but it was fun.
Q.   Everybody all set?  Okay.  Thank you.  Thank you, Michelle.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT