HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
March 3, 2018
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Yet another great round here in Singapore.  A 6-under 66 today.  Nice punch-out here on 18 to save the day at end.  Tell us about that.  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I just hit my pitching wedge just a little bit thin, didn't quite carry the bunker.  Got a nice, plugged lie.  But yeah, it was a great par save.  Hopefully bring me momentum for tomorrow.   
 Q.  Nice bounce-back today.  You had a 1-over round yesterday and you're right back in contention.  How do you think about that, going from a round that was just fine, but a great round today?  
MICHELLE WIE: You know, it's just one of those days yesterday where just things just didn't pan out the way I wanted to.  I just would get bad lies in the fairway, just get bad lies in the rough, just couldn't get myself opportunities.  I just felt good out there today.   
I practiced putting for a while out there yesterday and missed a lot of putts, so today just tried to turn that around and hopefully tomorrow more will drop.   
 Q.  A lovely round of 66.  You must be very pleased to make an up-and-down on the 18th.  That wasn't easy.  
MICHELLE WIE: Thank you.  I was happy to get it out honestly.   
 Q.  A lovely round of 66 and your love affair with this golf course continues, but it was a great start on Thursday.  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I felt good.  Just didn't get things going yesterday, but it was nice to turn things around, bring myself some momentum for tomorrow.   
 Q.  Golf is all good momentum.  At the moment you're five shots of going into the final round.  Are you the kind of player that looks at the leaderboards in the final round?  What's your kind of style?  
MICHELLE WIE: I look and I don't look at it.  You know, I just try to make as many birdies as I can but it's also, I think it's important to see where you are standing so you know whether you need to go for it or not.  Just have to play our own game and if you shoot a good round, that's all you can do.   
 Q.  One of your best mates is in the lead but one of your best mates is in the lead, Danielle Kang.  You must be thrilled for her.  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, for sure.  I've got a couple good friends up there, so it's exciting, hopefully get a good pairing going and it's going to be an exciting day tomorrow.   
 Q.  This has been a brilliant week and you've had a chance to bump into a player that you know from Solheim Cup days.  Nancy Lopez is here.  How cool is that?  
MICHELLE WIE: It was shocking.  I saw her husband on the bus and I was like, what are you doing all the way over here.  I think it's great what they are doing, bringing Hall of Famers here.  It's good to see her.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT