WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 20, 2004
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   Michelle, thanks for coming in, 73 69, 2 under for the tournament.  You played a lot of golf today.  Tell us about the day and then we'll take some questions.
MICHELLE WIE:  Well, I started off 3 over, and I thought, "I have to make a lot of birdies."  The course is going to be pretty wet and the greens were going to be really receptive, I thought, it might be my moving day.  I was hitting the ball really good.  It's nice to play 27 holes when you're playing good.
Q.   Confident wise today, did you feel good the whole day while you were out there?
MICHELLE WIE:  I felt great today.  I hit my irons today, I felt like it was going to go like three feet from the hole every time, so it's nice when I play like that.

I think my game is getting a little bit better every day, and hopefully it'll get better tomorrow.
Q.   Are you thinking about what you did well today?  I know the first hole of your second round you were close, three feet or so, you missed a birdie putt there, and you had one on the backside today.  What sticks in your head, how well you played or the birdies that you maybe let get away?
MICHELLE WIE:  Well, I think that I'm bothered by it.  I mean, coming from 3 over and I shot 2 under and that's pretty good for a rainy day.  It's a long day today, so I'm not going to think about those things.  Overall I think I played great today.
Q.   Did the wet course bother you at all?  Was it overly wet?
MICHELLE WIE:  Well, it was a little bit wet because the rain was there, but it wasn't unplayable at all.  It was quite nice.  The greens were really soft.  I actually liked it like this.
Q.   The way you finished last night with the double bogey, were you glad that you could stop the round there and maybe have a night to get over it and forget about it?
MICHELLE WIE:  I think it was great that I just quit after a double.  I mean, you wish that double never happened, but I think it was good because I wasn't playing that well that day, and then it's good to have a whole night to get over that hole.  Usually you have to get over that hole in like five seconds, but it's great when you have about five or six hours.
Q.   What did you do better today?  I know you hit it a lot closer and you just struck it better, but did you make some kind of a conscious adjustment, or some days it's there and some days it's not there?
MICHELLE WIE:  I kind of noticed that I was hitting my irons a little bit farther, and I just kind of adjusted on the distance wise.  I was hitting my irons great yesterday, but they were going all over the green and like over the green.  I think that I just kind of adjusted my distance a little bit and I gave myself a lot more opportunities today.
Q.   How well do you know or do you know Paula Creamer at all and do you see a rivalry budding down the road?  Does that excite you?
MICHELLE WIE:  I played with Paula in the Cup and we're door to door, so I think I know her pretty well.  I got to get really close to her, and I'm not really sure if there's going to be a rivalry or not.  I'm not going to think about it.  I'm not really sure what's going to happen.
Q.   When you said that you thought you were hitting your irons straight yesterday but they were just going all over the green
MICHELLE WIE:  I said over the green.
Q.   Did the wind have a lot to do with it, and did it help you today that you had your distance right and you could basically just stick it?
MICHELLE WIE:  Well, I just think that I'm hitting my irons like five, ten yards and it was landing on the hole, like right next to the hole.  The greens were really firm yesterday, and plus the wind was blowing, and it would hit the green and go over, and I didn't give myself a lot of birdie opportunities yesterday.  I think we saw the difference today, the greens are a little bit more receptive, and it all worked out.
Q.   You're about ready to go back to school in a few weeks?
MICHELLE WIE:  I'm actually going back to school next Thursday.
Q.   Has this been a good summer for you?  Have you seen some things, done some things, or has it been a disappointment because you could have done better than you did?
MICHELLE WIE:  It was a very fun summer.  How many 14 year olds get to go to Paris and London in one year?  It was a very fun summer.  I had a lot of vacation here and there.  It was a little bit disappointing because I didn't play as well as I wanted to.
Q.   I've got to ask you about these earrings?  Don't they bother you at all?  You don't know that they're there?
MICHELLE WIE:  They were sticking to my face, but
Q.   I saw one when you were out there, the one that was stuck to you.
MICHELLE WIE:  I have to brush them off sometimes.  It kind of bothers my dad because when it's hitting the shaft against my earrings, it just annoys him.
Q.   Can you take us over the score card?  Just go over the birdies, the bogeys and the eagle.  Tell us what you hit in and how far the putt was, starting with No.  3.
MICHELLE WIE:  The par 4, I hit a great 3 wood, and I think I hit a pitching wedge.  I put it to about nine feet.

4, the par 5, that one I pulled left, and I just punched out, and I had about 100 yards in, and I stuck it to about nine feet again.

No.  5, I hit a 3 wood and I had about     I think I had an 8 iron in there     no, actually a pitching wedge in there, and then I had about 12 feet.

No.  8, the par 3, that one, I hit it good.  I mean, it was downwind.  The wind changes on me.  It was into the wind obviously.  I hit it good.  If it was a little bit more left it would have been perfect, but it went in the water, and I went to the drop area and I hit it to about nine feet.
Q.   What did you hit off the tee on 8?
MICHELLE WIE:  Pitching wedge.
Q.   And then the eagle on 9?
MICHELLE WIE:  I hit my driver a little bit left, and I hit a 7 iron into the green, and I had about probably an eight foot putt.
Q.   Birdie on 10?
MICHELLE WIE:  I hit a 3 wood there, and I hit an 8 iron into the green.  I had about three feet.

Bogey on 14, my third shot was about 90 yards and I hit it a little bit long, and I three putted from there, from about 40 feet.

Bogey on 16, that one I hit a 4 iron     I mean, how does a 4 iron backspin?  Can you guys tell me, please?  I hit a 4 iron from the rough and it backspun on me.  I had about a 40 foot putt and I three putted.

Then birdie on 18, I hit like an 8 iron, and then I had about four feet.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT