RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 6, 2017
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How confident were you of trying to catch her led?
MICHELLE WIE: I felt pretty good about it.  Everything was working out perfectly, just the way I wanted to.  I just wanted to give myself an opportunity today and I'm really proud of myself for giving myself that.
I felt like if a couple of those putts coming in had gone in, I would have had a chance.  But I'm proud of myself for how I played this year.
Q. This is looking like it will be your best finish in a major since you won the U.S. Open three years ago.  How proud are you of your performance this week?
MICHELLE WIE: I am extremely proud of myself because I did not practice KPMG pretty much.  I came here kind of a little bit iffy, how I was going to feel, can I play.  But I'm so proud of myself.  I'll take 19th and whatever I'm going to get this week and I'm definitely leaving with a lot of confidence.
Q. Next up is Solheim Cup.  You'll be making your fourth appearance for Team USA.  How much are you looking forward to the week in Des Moines?
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I'm really looking forward to it.  It's always been a dream come true for my and just to be able to represent my country and just the fact that I started this year pretty much last on the rankings.  I just made my goal to make it on the team and I'm just so proud that I did.  You know, I'm just really proud that I can represent my country.
Q. You certainly gave it everything.
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, for sure.  I knew I was ten shots back starting the day and I needed to make something happen.  I'm really proud of myself for how I chased it today.  Yeah, I had a lot of fun.
Q. You're back challenging in majors again.  Do you sort of feel the next one is coming?
MICHELLE WIE: You know, I'm not really thinking about that.  I'm just really proud of myself for how I played ANA and all the majors this year.  It's fun being in competition and in contention.  I am really itching for that next win but a lot needs to happen before that.  It's a process and you can't really get too caught up in the result.  I'm leaving with a lot of confidence.  I'm really happy about that.
Q. Started off so well, 64 on Thursday, and finishing well today.  What do you take from your week at Kingsbarns?
MICHELLE WIE: I had a lot of fun.  The views are incredible.  The golf course is amazing.  It was a good week overall.  I can't complain.
Q. You must be very proud with your week.
MICHELLE WIE: I am.  I'm extremely proud.  Especially the way I kind of didn't play well on Friday and I bounced back really hard on Saturday and Sunday.  You know, I gave it a run today.  There's nothing more I can do.
Q. When you went to the turn in 30 strokes, did you have a glance at the leaderboard and think, you never know?
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, you never know what can happen.  I just tried to play my butt off, basically, and try to make as many birdies as I can.  I really thought all those putts at the end were going to drop and if they did, I would have had a real chance.  I'm really proud of myself for how I played today.
Q. You played the Ladies Scottish this year.  So that was a good lead into links golf.  Next year Lytham is links again.  Will you play the Scottish to get your eye for the links again?
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I really like what I did this year and hopefully I can do the same next career.
Q. Do you think that has really helped you by playing links back-to-back weeks?
MICHELLE WIE: For sure, 100 per cent.
Q. Looking ahead to the Solheim cup, your fourth outing in that.  I wanted to ask you about some of the English guys.  Georgia Hall is set to maybe her debut, and Jodi Shadoff is playing well.  How impressed have you been with them this week?
MICHELLE WIE: I've been very impressed.  Jodi is a great friend of mine.  So it's always great to see a friend up on the leaderboard, and it's going to be fun.
I think it's going to be both very young crowds, young teams, and it's going to be fun.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT