RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 4, 2017
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You fought really hard to stabilise after those first couple bogeys on the front nine but how disappointing was that finish.
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, it's disappointing.  I tried to force things at the end.  I got really unlucky with the one on 17 and again on 18, all day, just a little bit unfortunate with the lies in the fairways and just didn't get the bounces that I wanted to.
You know, a lot of good putts that looked like they were going in, a lot of positives and just hit a good putt all day today but just the momentum didn't go anyway today.  But thankfully today is not Sunday and still have two more days to go, so I'm happy about that.
Q. The 17th, a little bit of an example of how different a course was it.  How different was it to play?
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, it was not too bad.  I thought we still got lucky with the conditions today.  I mean, there were bursts of rain but they were pretty short and I thought there was no wind today.
Conditions were very playable.  Just out here, you just never know what kind of lies you're going to get and some days, everything kind of goes against you.  But I'll be fighting for the next two days.
Q. Still well in the mix and a couple of shots to make up.  How aggressive can you go on this course?
MICHELLE WIE: I think you can go pretty aggressive.  Like I said it depends on what lies you get and how well you're striking the ball.  So I'll work a little bit on the range today and get that going and make some more birdies tomorrow.
Q. Battling the elements out there in a challenging round, how would you sum up Friday?
MICHELLE WIE: It was a tough day out there today.  I hit a lot of great putts that didn't look like they were going in.  Got a bit unlucky on a couple lies in the fairways.  Just I hit good shots.  Just didn't get the bounces that I wanted to on the greens.
But yeah, I think I just tried to force it in coming in, 17 and 18 but I'm glad today is not Sunday and I have two more days to go.  So pretty positive about that and can make a lot more birdies.
Q. What will you be working on tomorrow morning ahead of the third round?
MICHELLE WIE: Nothing in particular.  Just one of those days.  I can't get too down on myself right now.  I played great.  That's the thing about links golf, just depends what bounces you get and there's a little bit of luck involved.  Obviously I will be going to the range and putting green after this for a little bit.  But game still feels pretty good.  My caddie and I were just talking about it and it feels pretty good still.  Just got a little bit unlucky out there.
Q. How much confidence does it give you going into the weekend knowing you do have an 8-under par round under your belt on this golf course?
MICHELLE WIE: It gives me a lot of confidence.  I know it's out there.  Hopefully I can pull one out again tomorrow.  That would be great.  No matter how frustrating it is, it's a great golf course and we're lucky to be here.  So I'm just going to go out there and try to shoot lights out.
Q. Yesterday Kingsbarns was quite kind to some of you out there; course record yourself.  Today was a little bit different, more of a grind it felt.
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I thought the conditions were still pretty good.  We got lucky with the rain.  It was raining on and off but still it was never too bad.  I just got the wrong bounces today.  The putts didn't drop in like yesterday and you know, that's just what golf is.  Some days they go in, some days they don't.  But I'm glad that I have two more days to go and make up ground and try to shoot some good golf.
Q. And you're still smiling after a particularly cruel finish to your round today, a double-bogey at the 17th where you found the water and a bogey at the last.  How are you reflecting on the end of the round in particular?
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I just tried to force something coming in.  I just was playing good all day.  I just kind of got a little impatient out there and got kind of an unlucky lie on 17 and just tried to force it.  So you know, that kind of still happens but it's a good lesson to be learned, and tomorrow just got to be more patient out there.
Q. And the lead is only at 10 as it stands.  Might move by one or two but not many.  It's a very truncated leaderboard, isn't it.  Still in with a shot.
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I mean, I still feel like I have a really good chance.  Got to go out there and make birdies and climb back up there.
Q. What were you trying to do on 17?
MICHELLE WIE: It was kind of looking like a flyer lie but then my leg was on the hill.  I just didn't want to hit one more club and I just felt like it was going to fly and I think just with my leg being so far up, I just couldn't get enough speed on it and just squirted out a bit to the right.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT