KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 2017
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Excellent start to the round, three birdies first four holes.  Did you think it was going to be a special day?  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, you know, I played great the first couple holes.  I just kind of hit a wall a little bit.  I got really tired.  I think being my third week, got done really late last night, and I just got really tired all of a sudden.   
But I grinded it through.  I'm proud of finishing 1-under.  The conditions got tougher throughout the day so I'm proud of my under-par round.   
 Q.  How important was that closing birdie?  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I mean, 16 par, 17 par, 18 birdie were huge for me.  Was just one of those days where I started off hot, just hit a wall in the middle and couldn't get things going.  But I felt really good and I made some really good putts coming in.  I have a lot of confidence for tomorrow and hopefully make a lot more birdies.   
I played good.  I hit some good shots.  Just left myself some really tricky putts today.  These greens are tough.  I think I just left myself in situations where I just needed to have a more uphill putt so I could be more aggressive with it.  I feel good about it.  Any under-par round on this golf course, I'll take.   
 Q.  What's the game plan for tomorrow?  
MICHELLE WIE: Game plan for tomorrow, fairways, greens, try and make some putts, birdies, the usual.   
 Q.  Looks like you're four back at the moment.  Is that close enough striking distance to have a run tomorrow?  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I can't really think about anyone else at this moment.  I'm just proud of myself for posting an under-par score today.  Still feel like I'm in position.  You never know what's going to happen on this golf course, but tomorrow, it's a whole new day and I'm just going to try to do my best tomorrow and see where that takes me.   
 Q.  Did the course get tougher as the day went on, or did you just get that good start?  
MICHELLE WIE: Definitely the winds picked up.   
 Q.  Did you feel light-headed or anything, or just tired?  
MICHELLE WIE: Just tired and, you know, cranky, the usual.  (Laughs).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT