LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 12, 2017
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What do you take away from today?
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I don't know.  I just felt tired coming in.  I think felt a little sleepy.  I just made a couple mental errors out there, but for the most part I'm happy finishing under par.
Excited to get some rest before the next round and hopefully get low.
Q. When you look at tomorrow, is it more about yourself?  You didn't learn too much about how this course is playing this week, the mindset is just working on yourself?
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, for sure.  Just all depends on the wind, the condition here.  Just got to take what comes at you.  Get some tricky lies out of the rough, too.
But, yeah, just take it one hole at a time, one shot at a time, and see how many birdies I can make.
Q. You feel like you did enough to remain in contention here?
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, first day.  Happy that I did an under-par.  I mean, and under-par round is good here today in the wind.
Definitely need to make a lot more birdies coming in, but I'm excited.
Q. Strong start to the day.  Can you take us through your round?
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, birdied two of the first three holes and just really didn't take advantage of the par-5s today.  That was where a lot of my errors were.  But hung in there today, and under-par round is all I can ask for.  Hopefully tomorrow make some more birdies.
Q. What was it like out there with In Gee and Brooke today?
MICHELLE WIE: It was fun.  I love those girls.  They make me feel a little old, but they're great girls and I love playing with them.  It was a fun day today.
Q. Last from me.  The fans out here, you saw them come at you; they were about to jump this rope here.  What is that like?
MICHELLE WIE: It's great coming home.  I love playing in front of everyone from Hawaii.  It's great playing in front of the home crowd.  I definitely feel the love, and it's just very honoring to come back.
Q. Back nine, was it that tough?  Seemed like you didn't have any close birdie putts there.  Just kind of grinding through with pars there.
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, definitely grinding through.  I don't know why.  I just felt really slow out there today.  Just tired a little bit.  Essentially I guess my fifth week on the road right now, and just definitely took a little bit of soda on the last couple to try and get through.
But I am excited for an afternoon round tomorrow.  I get to sleep all day today and rest a little bit tomorrow before I come out and come out fresh and hopefully make some birdies.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT