ANA INSPIRATION
April 1, 2017
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It's been glorious watching you play alongside Lucy Li.  It's been a great dynamic.  Talk about where you're at in this event and really the strength of your game right now.
MICHELLE WIE: I feel comfortable.  I'm having a lot of fun out there.  It was really a lot of fun to see Lucy play and play well.  Just really impressed with how she carries herself out there, and hit some great shots, great short game, great putting.  She's going to be a really good player.  I'm just having a lot of fun.  I'm really excited to play 18 more holes today, make some more birdies hopefully.  Yeah, I'm really happy with where I've positioned myself so far, so for the next two rounds hopefully I can keep it going.
Q. How about the endurance test that's going on, having to play the amount of holes.  What's your game plan to sort of reset for round 3?
MICHELLE WIE: Just going to chill for a little bit, maybe eat a second breakfast.  More coffee I think will be key today.
Q. A lot of good recovery shots today.
MICHELLE WIE: Thank you.
Q. Can you talk about how that helped you keep the round going?
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I mean, I think that's the whole point about majors.  You're going to be in those positions where you have to hit recovery shots, and I'm proud of the way I hung in there today, gave myself some good opportunities, as well.  I've got two more rounds left, one more round today.  I'm just going to keep having fun out there, keep trying to make some birdies and pars and trying to keep going.
Q. And the up-and-down from the bunker on the par-3, you kind of got hosed on that lie.  How much momentum were you able to carry through after getting --
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, that was a good 4 that I made.  It's always good to make par putts like that.  In majors you kind of have to because you're going to put yourself sometimes in situations like that where you make mistakes.  But I'm really proud of how I kept going.  I didn't really want to be in that bunker today.
Q. What did you do to kill time yesterday before your round started?
MICHELLE WIE: What did I do?  I woke up at 6:30.  I was really pissed off about that.  And then I walked Lola, took a nap, bothered Lola some more, then she ran away from me, then I went and chased her.  Just basically annoyed Lola the whole day, and then I started watching movies.  I was going to do a whole Harry Potter marathon, but I couldn't find the first movie, so that kind of didn't happen.
Q. What did you end up watching?
MICHELLE WIE: I actually watched "Train to Buson," that Korean zombie movie.  I was really stressed out.
Q. Do you still have a house here?  Is this still sort of home in a way?
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I still stay at Bighorn.  They've been really great to me.  They've been like family.  Mr. Harper has been so supportive of me for over a decade, so it's great to go back and see familiar faces and be in the same community.
Q. You seem to be having a lot more fun these days?
MICHELLE WIE: Trying to.  Trying to realize that it's a game.  Kind of have to look at it like that.  I feel really lucky to be able to play a game for a living, and I think that I just kind of have a good perspective on things and a better perspective just trying to go out there and feel grateful about the position that I'm at and being healthy and being able to enjoy myself.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT