LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 13, 2017
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Quite a grind out there today I guess partly because of the weather.  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I just didn't (indiscernible) a lot of breaks.  Nothing really spectacular happened today.  Just one birdie, one bogey I think.  Just couldn't get my irons close to give myself any opportunities.  Had some opportunities on the back nine; just didn't take advantage of them.   
Hopefully save them up for the weekend and make some birdies.   
 Q.  Kept yourself out of trouble.  Do you think that's something you can build on?  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah.  I mean, I had a lot up and downs today.  I think I hit like five greens today or something like that.  Days like this, you got to learn from them.  You got to learn from your mistakes.  I am proud of myself for hanging in there.  I made a lot of tough putts today, a lot of good chips as well.   
Just need to get scrambling going and make some birdies.   
 Q.  Goals specifically for the weekend?  
MICHELLE WIE: Just want to have fun out there.  Hopefully see a lot more people out there that I know and just have fun playing at home and just really enjoy my time here.   
 Q.  When you see your playing partners and Ariya did today, it's seems like there is this new wave of -- and Lydia -- like really young 20-somethings coming up there.  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah.   
 Q.  It's starting to like you're the veteran now.  
 MICHELLE WIE?  For sure, yeah.  There are a lot of times now where I'm the oldest one in the group.  This is total role reversal for me because I have always been the youngest one in the group.   
 But it's cool to see.  They're great girls.  We got a great young -- you know, young people coming out.  It's good to see all the young kids in the crowd as well.  It's just fun.   
 Q.  Anything change after the rain delay?  
MICHELLE WIE: No, not really.  Just no wind, so that was good.   
 Q.  Your knowledge of the course help you a lot today?  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I thought it did.  I always feel like I forget the course if I don't see it a lot during the year.   
Yeah, I mean, there are lot of the great memories here.  I won here in 2014, so that's a lot of great memories.  Growing up here.  It's just fun being back home and playing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT