BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 17, 2017
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Is being in contention like riding a bike?  As soon as you get if contention again it's like it's always easy or is there sort of a back door you have to get comfortable with it again?
MICHELLE WIE: No, I think being in contention is definitely a spot where I feel comfortable at.  Feels like home to me.  It's nice being in this position again.
I'm really proud of the way I've played the last two days.  To give myself an opportunity, that's all I can ask for at this point on Friday.  I'm really excited.
Q. The struggles that you've gone through, again, how much has that made you just miss what you're now enjoying?
MICHELLE WIE: It definitely makes it a lot sweeter.  Struggling to make the cut on Fridays -- coming down the stretch and trying to make the cut is a whole different feeling than making birdies to stay in contention.
I have to say, this is a lot more fun.  (Laughter.)
Q. Almost more pressure trying to make a cut, I would imagine, than what you're dealing with now.
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, for sure.  This is a lot of fun.  I've really had a lot of fun the last two days playing out here.  Just makes my excited for the weekend.  Just going to take it one hole at a time.
I can't win the tournament tomorrow.  I am just going to keep trying to position myself and try to make birdies when I can and keep having fun; just have the same mentality out there.
Q. Anything in particular stand out about today's round that you're pleased with?
MICHELLE WIE: The front nine went very well.  Just like I felt like on the front nine every time I had a birdie opportunity I took advantage of it.  That's kind of what you need to do on this golf course.  You have to shoot low numbers out there.  Even I shot 7-under and 5-under and I am still one off the lead.
You just have to keep making birdies to stay afloat well.
Q. You won a U.S. Women's Open, which is the hardest setup usually that there is and where par is a good score.  What's the difference in the mentality here, and do you have to remind yourself anything when you're playing a birdiefest?
MICHELLE WIE: I think just reminding that sometimes birdies are pars out here.  Certain holes you have to make birdie to stay with the competition.  It's just kind of the nature of the game out here.
But it's fun.  It's fun coming out here and having opportunities to birdie every hole.  It's a fun change of pace, and I think it's a great golf course.  Greens are rolling pure.  If you give yourself opportunities, it's fun.  It's fun to go out there chasing birdies.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT