HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 2, 2017
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Very tidy 6-under round today.  Tell us about it.
MICHELLE WIE: I feel good about it.  I had fun out there.  I had a great group.  I really had run playing with Ryann and Minjee today, and it was just one round today.
Q. Talk to us about your putting style, always a big talking point and everybody who watches you because it's so interesting, but you had many changes.
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I'm standing up now.  I was home last week and the men were playing, so my coach was there, David Leadbetter.  I went to the Honda and kind of stole him away for a little bit.  I begged him to come over and watch me putt.  We worked on it quite a bit.  We made some changes to it and hopefully it's been working.
Q. Do you feel like it's paying off this week?
MICHELLE WIE: I hope so, yeah.  I feel comfortable.
Q. It's been a while since you've been in the winner's circle and you've been going through lots of changes and injuries.  How close or how far do you think you are from returning?
MICHELLE WIE: You know, it's a marathon this week, it's not a sprint, but I have to say I'm very proud of where I've positioned myself today, and hopefully the next three days I can keep it going, keep it rolling and keep having fun.
Q. How do you think you did today?
MICHELLE WIE: I'm proud of myself for where I positioned myself today.  I had a lot of fun.  So for the next three days, try to have fun.
Q. How did the weather affect things?
MICHELLE WIE: The weather was great this morning until just now.  I got lucky with the weather.
Q. What do you hope to achieve in the next few days?
MICHELLE WIE: I just want to go out there and play as hard as I can and just keep having fun.  You know, just keep gaining confidence.
Q. And how are you trying to -- do you hope to get to the top?
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, of course.  Yeah.
Q. How are you going to do that?
MICHELLE WIE: I think just keep doing what I'm doing right now.  Just keep being comfortable out there and just try as hard as I can and play as hard as I can and just have fun.
Q. What are some of the challenges do you think you'll face?
MICHELLE WIE: The golf course is tough.  I think it has a lot of run-off areas, so you have to be smart out here and play towards -- just be smart.
Q. What pleased you the most about your round?
MICHELLE WIE: You know, it's just a steady round.  I had fun out there.  I had a lot of fun.  I just had fun playing.
Q. Was it your ball-striking or putting that maybe was positive for you today?
MICHELLE WIE: You know what, I felt like I putted very well today.
Q. You've had, by your own standards, sort of a pretty difficult last couple years.  How satisfying was it to put together such a good round in a tournament like this?
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, you know, it feels good to play without much pain.  To go out there and just play some golf and focus on my game rather than trying to finish out rounds.  I'm very proud of myself today.
Putting myself in a position, it's always exciting to be on the top of the leaderboard or near the top of the leaderboard.  Even though it's just the first day I want to just keep building and hopefully the next three days I can take it day by day, hole-by-hole, shot by shot and play as hard as I can.
Q. Over the years, you've fallen victim to some of the picky rules in golf.  Overnight, they made some changes; have you looked at them and what do you think of them?
MICHELLE WIE: I barely skimmed through it.  It's interesting.  I hope it goes through.  I think it will make everyone's lives easier.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT