BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 16, 2017
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
(In progress.)   
MICHELLE WIE: -- on the par-3 and kind of got me a little pissed off a little bit.  (Laughter.)   
But I felt good out there today.  I had such a great time with my playing partners.   
The greens were just rolling pure; fun to play.   
 Q.  The eagle, can you go over that one?  
MICHELLE WIE: I had 3-wood off the tee; I had about like about 250 to the hole.  I had 3-wood.  Probably had a 15-footer just off the green.   
 Q.  Tell me about your putting grip.  Is it a modified claw technically?  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I think so.   
 Q.  How would you describe it?  
MICHELLE WIE: I have no idea.  At this point, I can't describe anything I do while I putt, so...   
 Q.  Why does it feel good then, I guess?  
MICHELLE WIE: David and I worked really hard during the week of the Honda.  I kind of stole him away from Rafa when and went to the Honda.  I was like, Can you just come watch me putt?   
Worked on the claw and everything and trying things out, and feels good.   
 Q.  You went away from it, right, in Singapore?  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah.   
 Q.  Okay.  
MICHELLE WIE: Got a text from David.   
 Q.  He saw that you had changed?  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah.   
 Q.  But coming here, were you working back on the claw again before you came here?  
MICHELLE WIE: I like the feel of the claw.  I practice with it.  I love the way my stroke goes.  I putted well with it in Australia.  I think it's just a matter of what feels best that week for me.  I kind of do both during the practice rounds.   
 Q.  Are you hitting more drivers here than typical?  
MICHELLE WIE: I think so.  Ah, yes and no.  I hit a lot of 3-woods today, too.  But, yeah.   
 Q.  Can you speak the confidence you're getting in that club also?  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, you know, just obviously changing to the new Epic driver.  We really worked hard.  Callaway came over to Florida a couple times in the off-season and really fitted me with the right club.   
When you feel comfortable with the club, it's nice to grab driver more because then you have shorter clubs in.   
Yeah, Callaway has been great.   
 Q.  The chance to win at HSBC, how important was that?  How did you temper the discipline that I'm not winning with the fact that you gave yourself a chance?  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, you know, I felt really good after Singapore.  I was so proud of myself for putting myself there.  I was so confident all week, and it felt great to be confident again, in contention.   
I was really disappointed on Sunday.  I was sad.  It definitely stung.  You always want to win.  At the same time, I played great on Sunday.  Just couple putts didn't go in, and I forgot you hit it further when you get adrenaline going.   
Every experience you get you learn from it, and I learned a lot from it.  Hopefully I use the experience here in the upcoming events.   
 Q.  You spent a lot of time work on the practice putting green.  Trying to get a feel?  Working on mechanics?  What's the main goal?  
MICHELLE WIE: I've just been trying to see putts go in.  Just working on my alignment and just trying to commit to where I'm hitting and learning how to read putts and everything.   
 Q.  Are you 100% healthy right now?  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, feels good.  I'm not going to say that because every time I say that something happens.  No comment.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT