BLUE BAY LPGA
October 20, 2016
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You performed really well in the past at this tournament.  I wonder what this tournament means for you, and coming back here this year, what you hope to get out of this week.
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I love this week.  The resort's great.  The views are amazing.  The golf course, I think this year, it's in the best condition I've ever seen.  I played great today.  I had a lot of fun in the past, and I'm just really excited to be back here.
Q. A lot of the fans here in China and abroad have been interested in what you've been doing outside of golf over the, as well.  You have some really great photos on Instagram, very artistic.  Can you tell us about that side of you?
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I love art.  I've always kind of dabbled in it and experimented with it.  I went through a really big painting phase, which I hope I get back to.
But right now I'm just really interested in photography.  So it's been fun experimenting with it and playing around with it.  I think Instagram and everything is just a great way to express yourself, and photography is just one way that I do it.
Q. Do you have a particular memorable Instagram moment this year?
MICHELLE WIE: I don't.  I guess my most memorable one, it has to be when I went shark diving and there's a picture of me and a shark just below me, so that was pretty cool.
Q. What do you like to take pictures of or paint?
MICHELLE WIE: Food.  Food and like landscape and just kind of black and white, so I've just been experimenting.
Q. You've been doing some events here during the week.  Can you explain about some of the photo calls and what that's been like?
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, with the typhoon unfortunately, we haven't been able to do much.  But I participated in the opening ceremony which was really cool.  I'm just really excited to see that everyone is so happy to have us and excited to see us play, so really excited for that.
Q. What do you have planned for the rest of the year?
MICHELLE WIE: Just going to play out the rest of the season and then I'm going to go back home to Hawai'i, take some time off and try to regroup for next year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT