ANA INSPIRATION
April 2, 2016
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MICHELLE WIE: You know, that's what major championships are.  You kind of have to grind it out when you're not hitting the ball as well.  But I'm very proud of what I did today.  I hung in there, had some good birdies, and hopefully give myself more opportunities tomorrow and take advantage of them.
Q. Was there a par in particular that you felt like really kept everything together for you, a certain up-and-down out there?
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I think the one on the back nine probably, is it the 13th hole?  I think that was a pretty good one for me.
Q. What would seem to be the benefits of this new putting stance that you're using?
MICHELLE WIE: You know, I feel comfortable with it, not really overthinking it, just putting -- whatever you can do to feel comfortable over the ball, you should do, and that's kind of what's happening for me this week.
Q. When you are in a weekend of a major, saving pars, do they almost feel like birdies in this kind of environment?
MICHELLE WIE: Oh, yeah, for sure.  Pars are a great score out here.  On a couple of those holes, just definitely grinding it out is very important.
Q. Is it good preparation if nothing else for the final round?
MICHELLE WIE: Oh, yeah, for sure.  You just kind of have to have that little bit difficult round and get through it.  Very proud of the way I stayed patient out there today.  I didn't really try to force anything.  That's what I've got to do tomorrow, just hit more fairways than I did today, give myself more opportunities, and take advantage of them.
Q. You had said after a year of tinkering that you really just wanted to have fun and just kind of play.  Is that how you've been feeling this week?
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, for sure.  Like I said earlier this week, the body is really starting to feel good, and not having to tinker just feels great, not having to work around something.  So just going out there and having fun and talking to my caddie a lot today, playing with Charley was a lot of fun.  We had a blast out there, and hopefully I can do the same thing tomorrow.
Q. Will you work on anything on the range?
MICHELLE WIE: No, swing still feels good, just had a couple of not committing to it and stuff, so just got to commit to it.
Q. How much do you draw on having won the U.S. Women's Open in a very difficult environment?
MICHELLE WIE: A lot.  The scoreboard is definitely packed.  There's a lot of big names up there, a lot of players that have won major championships, as well.  So tomorrow is going to definitely be a test, and hopefully I'm just going to go out there and not think about anyone else and just try to play the golf course that I know how to play.  You know, hopefully just have fun out there.
Q. How did Charley add to the fun?
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, she's always good fun.  I really like playing with her.  Really good conversation.  She's a good girl.  She's fun.  Yeah, it was a lot of fun out there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT