ANA INSPIRATION
March 31, 2016
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Michelle, a couple different putting styles for you today.  I haven't seen the shorter putts.  Explain the difference and why you decided to add that one to the arsenal?
MICHELLE WIE: I kind of always saw how Jack putted and it kind of worked out okay for him.  So I obviously I've always been kind of like Jack in putting and stuff, and I decided to go a little more narrow.  Putting is all about feel, and obviously just kind of tried that out, felt comfortable, and hopefully maybe stick with it.
Q. Is there a distance range you go to the other side?
MICHELLE WIE: It's kind of by feel, but shorter putts I kind of do that, and longer putts, I don't know, I kind of do it by feel.
Q. You seem to be happy for good reason.  Closing with that birdie.  One of your best opening rounds on this golf course in quite some time.  What's that do to your psyche setting up the next three days?
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I'd take an under-par score here any day.  It was an easy round today, and I'll hopefully keep that going for the rest of the tournament.  Just fairways and greens and just have fun out there.
Q. I could probably take some advice from you on fashion.  I have to ask, let's show her high tops, because what kind of tan lines do you have?
MICHELLE WIE: They're horrible.  I have horrible tan lines, but they're worth it.  They're awesome.  They're like fuzzy too which is awesome.
Q. I don't think I could pull those off.  Are they waterproof?
MICHELLE WIE: I think so.  I think they are.
Q. You think?  Hopefully you won't have to test that out unless it's a jump into Poppie's Pond, then you can let us know?
MICHELLE WIE: Exactly.
Q. I know you just spoke about it, but the new putting style from short range, is it something that's a feel thing for your back?  Is it something that you feel more comfortable with the distance?  What's going on there?
MICHELLE WIE: No, there's really no real thought process behind it.  Just kind of saw -- I see pictures of Jack putting and stuff, and just try to emulate it.  Trying to kind of copy it a little bit, feeling more centered, feeling more balanced.  Putting is all about that feel thing.  You need a little bit of a spark, just a comfortable feeling, and that kind of worked for me today.
Q. You spent a lot of time out here the last few days.  Is it something that you're now comfortable with the greens and where the speeds are?
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, it's kind of been nice.  Just haven't been going to the range as much and just focusing on short game and putting.  I've spent close to five hours the last two days out here putting and chipping.  It's just something you have to do.
Q. Two years ago when you finished second here to Lexi you opened with a 67.  It's been your best opening round since then.  Is that something you're going to be able to build on?  How are the comparisons between that year and this year?
MICHELLE WIE: I hope so.  I hope it's something I can build on.  2-under out of the first round, I'm not complaining.  I'm very happy about it.  Hopefully just keep playing consistently out there and keep making birdies.
Q. And how's your ball striking, are you comfortable with where you are?
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I feel good.  I've got to go out there, feel loose, keep feeling fun and see how many par under I can get.
Q. After last year all the issues you went through, what's been the story of this year so far?  What is the theme of this year, so to speak?
MICHELLE WIE: You know, it's just obviously residual stuff from last year coming in.  The body's really starting to feel good.  It takes a while to come back from an injury, and I think finally I'm just getting stronger and getting my strength back and flexibility and everything.  But it's something I have to look out for, but, feeling good.  Just want to take it a shot at a time, tournament at a time.  Just not think too far ahead, not dwell in the past too much.  But I'm happy with the way I played today, and hopefully I can build upon that the next three days.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT