ANA INSPIRATION
April 1, 2016
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Good round.  Tell us about how you feel you played today and how things were?  The eagle was nice?  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, definitely that was fun.  I definitely felt like I could have made a lot more.  I just felt like a blind person out there.  I hit a lot of good putts; I just misread them slightly.  So just consistent and that's kind of what I've been looking for, and the next two days just see what I can do and play the way I have been playing and just keep doing it.   
 Q.  What was the yardage and everything to the hole out?  
MICHELLE WIE: It was hole 12.  I had a pitching wedge.  I forgot the distance.  I think it was 132 to the hole.   
 Q.  So the putting issue is reading the greens more than anything?  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I mean, I putted great today.  I just was like a blind mouse out there.   
 Q.  So you're only a couple strokes back at the minute.  How comfortable are you out here?  Is this your favorite place to play?  
MICHELLE WIE: I do.  I mean, this is a really special place for me.  This is like my 12th time being here.  Just all the crowds and a lot of memories, the same guy who has been walking with me since I was 13, was walking with me.  It's a really special place, and I'm just going to have fun the next couple of days.  It's really fun being back in contention, so I'm going to just kind of have fun out there.   
 Q.  What is the feedback you've been getting about the whole Nicklaus putting style?  
MICHELLE WIE: I guess it's still really new.  I don't know I haven't really heard much, but I can only imagine (laughing).   
 Q.  What do you think you'll need to do this weekend to kind of keep yourself in the mix?  
MICHELLE WIE: Just keep playing the way I'm playing right now.  Make a couple more putts and give myself an opportunity, that's all I'm asking for.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you're doing that so far this week?  
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I think so.  I'm very happy with where I'm placed right no and just want to give myself the opportunity, which I did this weekend, and try to make the most out of it.   
 Q.  How much fun was the hole out on 12?  
MICHELLE WIE: It was fun.  It was my third hole day, so that was exciting.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT