U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2015
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. It looked like early in the round you had two swings that were totally out of whack, was there pain or what happened?MICHELLE WIE: Needless to say, I'm just happy that this round is over.  It was a tough one today.  It was definitely one of the toughest rounds I've ever played.Q. What is the nature of your injury or injuries?MICHELLE WIE: You know, at this point I think I have to look into it further.  It was getting a lot better and it just kind of went backwards this week.  I just want to have another look at it, see what my game plan is moving forward.  I made it through today. If it wasn't for the crowds and the fans today, it definitely would have been tough, but they really pushed me forward and I'm really grateful for that.Q. Is it more hip or ankle?MICHELLE WIE: It's kind of the whole left leg.Q. Did you get a much better reception this week, not just you but the whole field?MICHELLE WIE: Oh, yeah, the crowds have been amazing.  It's been such an amazing crowd to play in front of.  There's so much support, they were so excited to see us.  I felt the excitement. Like I said earlier, that's what pushed me through the round today is you got this, keep on going, just hearing those.  And the support that everyone gave today really got me through and kind of got me going on the back nine.Q. Did you feel like you were really starting to mount a charge, as bad as you may feel, on 13, when you rolled in that birdie?MICHELLE WIE: You know, it's just -- it was frustrating today.  I went out there with the mindset that I wanted to make a charge out there today.  It was tough to do.  But I have to say it feels really good to have gotten it back to even par for today.  I'm extremely proud of myself.Q. What club did you use on 16 and what was the length of your putt?MICHELLE WIE: I hit a 2 hybrid.  I don't really know the distance of the hole.  My caddie knows that.  But I think it hit the pin and I had about four feet.Q. And on 18, your club into the green and your putt length?MICHELLE WIE: 6-iron and about nine feet.Q. Back on 16, when you hit the pin, even before you hit the pin, it was playing so short, did you feel like you had a chance to ace it because you were so close?  What were your thoughts before that?MICHELLE WIE: I told my caddie I was going to aim at the pin and I hit it good, and that was probably the best one I made all week.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT