U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2015
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You looked like a wounded warrior out there.  How are you feeling?MICHELLE WIE: It was a long day today.  I'm glad to be done with.  But it is what it is.  I've kind of embraced it.  I've played with the pain for a while.  I know what to expect, nothing is unexpected.  I'm good to go for tomorrow.Q. Is the pain in your hip?MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, it's -- yeah.Q. You were pounding it at one point?MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I just feel like there's a knot in it sometimes and just trying to get it to go.Q. Is it getting worse?  Is it worse today than yesterday or has it been about the same all week?MICHELLE WIE: Unfortunately it does get a little bit worse.  It's just a pretty hilly golf course.  You hit a lot of shots.  I think that's where I kind of struggled the most today.  On flat lies, it's okay.  It's just on the uphill shots.  And you kind of saw on 18, I'm struggling to get on the left side there.  But it's tough to kind of know what to expect and not be afraid of it and just kind of fight through it.Q. Do you have pain anywhere else?MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I mean my ankle as well, too, has never been good.  But it is what it is.Q. How much different did the course play today than yesterday?MICHELLE WIE: It's a lot firmer today.  And the greens were a lot firmer than they were yesterday.  But not too much different.Q. You seem to look really confident over your longer putts.  You look like you were hitting longer putts firmly and getting them close.MICHELLE WIE: Yeah.Q. You had a couple of tee shots on the back nine where you really went after it.  Given the pain and being able to still focus on the fundamentals, how do you do that, be able to still maintain the focus on fundamentals dealing with that and having to go after it all at the same time?MICHELLE WIE: I'm very grateful that it hasn't really hurt my backswing, I just feel it on the way through.  So I kind of pep myself up, and it is what it is, and you just kind of go for it.  But I'm proud of myself today, I hung in there, for sure.Q. How much were you paying attention to the leaderboards to see how close you were getting to Amy and maybe trying to make something happen?MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I was definitely focusing a little bit on it.  I knew I had to post a low number, which is a little frustrating.  Those easy bogeys that came around today were a little bit frustrating.  I felt like the birdies came today.  I just -- those bogeys are precious, you can't really be making bogeys out here. I'm grateful that I have an opportunity, I have a chance.  So I'm going to try to do as much as I can with it.Q. Can you talk about your back nine where you played extremely well?MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, it just, you know, into the front nine with bogey, bogey, and that kind of got me a little fired up.  And it felt good to birdie 10. There's definitely birdie holes out here where you've got to take advantage of, and there's definitely holes where par is a great number.  I think that's kind of the game plan.Q. Can you talk about your warmup routine with the one-arm drivers and the band that you're pulling.  That's all new this week, what are you working on there?MICHELLE WIE: It's just something that David and I have been working on, trying to get me more ambidextrous.  I'm just so right-hand dominant and golf is a two-handed sport, and I'm trying to get more aware of my left hand, my left arm, and trying to get more feeling into it.  I can't do anything with my left hand, so just trying to get more feeling into it.  It feels good.Q. Is it making a difference?MICHELLE WIE: I think so.Q. Did you exceed your expectations that you had before coming to the tournament?MICHELLE WIE: You know, I think my expectations were just I was going to play as hard as I can try to make as many birdies as I can.  And right now I'm just really happy that I'm in a good spot.  I just want to see what I can do tomorrow.Q. Are you taking painkillers or pain relievers?MICHELLE WIE: I'm unfortunately allergic to a lot of painkillers, so that's very unfortunate.Q. Is the pain worse with the longer or shorter club or doesn't it matter?MICHELLE WIE: It is what it is.Q. Will you curtail your practice this afternoon?MICHELLE WIE: I'm won't be doing anything.Q. Is there one shot that stood out for you today that you were pleased with or liked the most or was most memorable for you?MICHELLE WIE: I think my wedge game today, my short irons I felt pretty good with.  But just overall, I just feel like it's coming together.  I just want to keep the good feelings going and keep improving on them, gaining confidence in my good shots and learn from the bad ones.  And I feel like I'm doing that, so I just want to keep doing what I'm doing.Q. Is it drying out where your short irons are coming into play more and maybe you're going to have an edge in that respect?MICHELLE WIE: I don't know.Q. When you say it's coming together more, do you mean as far as what you've been working on with the swing and the swing changes?  Is that specifically what you mean?MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, I think so.  Obviously I had to go through an overhaul with my swing.  Anytime you do that, it takes time.  And every day gets more comfortable.  So, yeah, I think that with time, with practice, sticking with it, not changing anymore, I think, it's definitely coming together.Q. When did you start that overhaul?  That was this year, earlier this year?MICHELLE WIE: Like a month ago or and a half ago.Q. Did you find the course noticeably faster today?MICHELLE WIE: A little bit.  I mean it wasn't crazy much of a difference.  It was noticeable, though.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT