KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 12, 2015
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  How are you feeling?  MICHELLE WIE: I'm good.  I'm really excited to get ice on it and get worked on.  But still standing upright, so I'm good.   Q.  Can you talk about just trying to make the cut here, birdieing the last hole, what you were feeling down the stretch?  MICHELLE WIE: Felt like an idiot for most of the day.  Just made a lot of stupid errors which is frustrating.  Just felt like I was rolling the ball a lot better today.  Hit a lot of good putts, a lot of good shots.  I feel like it's starting to come together.  So I am excited for the week and excited to play for two more days and get the feel back.   Q.  How much discomfort are you in?  There are times where you looked like you were feeling it pretty good?  MICHELLE WIE: I had one shot today which was not fun.  I had a fried egg on the lip of the bunker, so that wasn't fun.  But overall, it's really not too bad.  It definitely just has its up-and-downs. There's moments where it feels great.  There's moments where I want to cut it off.  I think I'm just going to put ice on it.  I'm really thankful that I have the rest of the afternoon to stay off my feet, so I'm excited about that.   Q.  Can you talk about how you've had to change your swing to accommodate the hip and narrow your stance?  MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, the injury that I have right now, I think I was pretty fortunate in a way because they said that I was on a way for a tear.  I made a lot of swing changes.  Not as limber as what I used to be is what everyone is telling me.  I think it's kind of like a life swing kind of change, tune-up, to accommodate to my aging body so to speak. Obviously I kind of started at ShopRite, was working through there.  Yesterday, as well, too.  Swing changes are always tough, especially the week of major, but starting to feel really comfortable.  Just keep doing the same things and finally feels like the swing changes are coming together.  Hopefully over the weekend I can really play more and make some more birdies.   Q.  I've been asking a lot of people about the course setup, starting on a par 3.  Is that a little bit difficult or strange to see?  MICHELLE WIE: I was talking to someone about this.  I think we had it at Pumpkin Ridge, didn't we, the 10th hole, a par 3.  I think there was another tournament that starts on a par 3.  Obviously it's not your norm, but it is what it is.  I like it.  It makes for an interesting start.   Q.  What's the biggest takeaway you can take from the first two days?  MICHELLE WIE: I think just the way the course is playing.  Obviously it played a little differently from the practice rounds.  And if you have two rounds under your belt, you know which holes are the birdie holes and which holes are the ones that you need to make par on.  So I think kind of have that down.   Q.  The move that you made at the Open, doing this all the time, is it hard to get away from that and completely drop that?  Because your pre-shot routine, everything is totally different?  MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, it is a complete overhaul but it is kind of what I had to do.  This is definitely a warning sign for my body.  But it feels good.  I think a lot of times, I'm really trying not to do a wraparound finish on my driver, but with the speeds it does get to that position and that's when it does kind of fire up a little bit. It's chipping away at it but I feel like I'm doing well.   Q.  There could be long-term good from it in the quality of your game once you've done it for a while?  MICHELLE WIE: For sure.  I think so.   Q.  With David, has he said some things over the years about narrowing your stance and you kind of didn't want to?  MICHELLE WIE: On the record I guess so.  Ever since I was like 13, he's been trying to get me to narrow my stance.  I guess I must be the most stubborn person in the entire world because I have no discipline -- yeah, yeah, yeah, I'll do it. We were kind of joking around in the practice rounds and he was actually telling me to widen my stance on one of the shots and we were laughing about that and how I never listen to him.   Q.  So that's accurate?  MICHELLE WIE: Very accurate.   Q.  More narrow with your driver speed stance --  MICHELLE WIE: It's half as narrow, pretty narrow.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT