SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
May 27, 2015
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   So I know it's not the way we want to start off, but let's talk about health, hip.   I know coming off a bit of an injury, but how are you feeling?   Take us through that time line of going home, resting, coming back.  
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah.   It was tough.   I mean I got‑‑ I was coming into Kingsmill definitely sore.   It's been sore for a while, and then definitely during that day or that morning it flared up, and you know, in looking back on it, I mean I don't even know why I played all 18.   I just wasn't even thinking about withdrawing.   Even after I finished I wasn't even thinking about it, and I couldn't put any weight on my left leg, which is kind of a sign.   So unfortunately‑‑ or fortunately the doctor was in the‑‑ our doctor was in the trailer.   You know, we did a couple of tests.   They thought it might have been a disk issue, so we went straight to the MRI.   Thankfully it was not a disk issue, which I was really excited about.   And then I flew back to Jupiter immediately, took three more MRIs that day just because my whole left leg was hurting.   So thankfully everything came out clean, except for my hip, which is kind of what I was thinking.   No tears, nothing, no structural damage, which I was really happy about, just a little bursitis, which is I guess‑‑ I've never heard of this term before.  
   
 Q.   It sounds scary.  
MICHELLE WIE:   It's just that sac that sits in between your tendon and your bone that just got inflamed.   So I just got a Cortisone injection, just gotta be a little bit careful from now on.   And feeling not too bad right now.   So it's good.  
   
 Q.   How much have you been able to play or practice since you've felt better?  
MICHELLE WIE:   I took almost‑‑ I mean I took that whole week off, and then I started hitting balls on Friday.   So just a couple of days.  
   
 Q.   You were doing everything but golf, hockey game, concerts.   You took a little R & R.   Take us through some of the activities there.   You like to take your home time very seriously.  
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, I also don't‑‑ I mean it's tough when you're injured, so I think the worst thing to do is just kind of sit at home and sulk and do nothing.   So I definitely made the most out of it.   We went to the hockey game, my first hockey game, which was amazing.   Big hockey fan now.  
And then we went to a Darius Rucker concert.   So yeah, the week actually flew by really fast.  
   
 Q.   You saw Tampa play, the Rangers?  
MICHELLE WIE:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   And you'd never seen a hockey game?  
MICHELLE WIE:   No.   But supposedly it was a freak of a game because it was 5‑5 and then went into overtime and then 6‑5 Tampa.   So I heard that's unheard of in hockey.  
   
 Q.   You're a good luck charm.  
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Especially in playoffs, very low score.   Talk about this course.   Last year here it was kind of in the span of you playing some awesome golf, win in Hawaii and you just had some really solid finishes.   Playing here, it's one of the kind of perennial stops.   Everyone likes this course.   It's a tough course.   Your thoughts coming into this week.  
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah.   It's definitely a tough course.   I think it all depends on the conditions here.   It could play a lot easier if the wind isn't blowing or if it blows a certain way.   Definitely the wind is a factor here.   
You know, I think it's just keeping the ball in play.   It's not a long course.   I think you just gotta put the ball in play, put it in the right spot, definitely put it in the right spot on the greens.   So I think that's very important.  
   
 Q.   How about your stingers?   Will they be in play, keeping it low?  
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, for sure.  
   
 Q.   You like to play in the wind.   You kind of train on the wind, so it suits you.  
MICHELLE WIE:   I do.   I do really enjoy playing in the wind.   I played yesterday afternoon.   It was blowing really hard.   So it was fun.   I think you just gotta keep the ball in play, gotta keep it low and just be patient on this golf course.  
   
 Q.   How would you describe the state of your game at this time?   I know the injury doesn't count, but before that how do you think you've been playing?  
MICHELLE WIE:   It's been a little bit of a tough year for me, but at the same time I feel like I'm learning a lot, and you know, every week has been better and better.   Just been really struggling with my body and my health this year.   It's been really frustrating that I felt like I was just getting over my illness and just got a little injured.   So it's been a little bit of a tough year in that sense, but you know, golf wise, I feel like it's always a learning experience out here, and you know, I think that I'm ready for some really good golf, and I think that I'm getting ready for it.   Every week I'm getting better and better.   And I'm excited.   I'm excited to get to every tournament venue.   I'm excited to be here.   I was very unsure if I could play or not, so I'm very excited to be here and just excited to play.  
   
 Q.   Is it hard to deal with‑‑ obviously it's hard to deal with any injury, but you had such a great year last year, so I know you probably come into this year hoping to build on it and stuff and then the injuries and stuff like that.   Does that make it even harder to sort of deal with it when things go wrong like that sometimes?  
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah.   You know, there's really nothing you can do about it.   Unfortunately, you know, I didn't plan on getting sick this year, didn't plan on a lot of things.   But at the same time I think every time I get injured, every time I get sick it just makes me realize, you know, how grateful I am to be able to play, you know, and that my health is the most important thing.  
I think a lot of times you get caught up in a lot of different things, you stress about different things, but the most important thing is your health.   So I'm really focusing on that.   
You know, I'm trying to kind of really revamp my diet.   So being really strict on that, trying to flush out any kind of inflammation out of my body right now.   So I feel good.   I feel like it was kind of the kick in the butt that I needed to be like, okay, I really need to focus on my body and trying to focus on the biomechanics of it.   And I was very lucky that it wasn't any structural damage, so I'll bounce back pretty quickly.  
   
 Q.   I've seen your pictures of food on your Twitter account.   It looks interesting.   Is this new stuff you're trying or is this old stuff you're making a different way?  
MICHELLE WIE:   No.   I've been really, especially because bursitis is an inflammation and it is, you know, fluid stuck in the little sac area, so I've been really focusing on eating foods that flushes out the inflammation.   Supposedly cold sweet potato does that, tumeric.   So I've just been trying to stay away from starchy foods, and I've been really feeling a difference, and I've been really trying to do as much paleo as I can.   
You know, I started to do‑‑ I was home for like a week and a half, I guess two weeks, so I started doing meal prepping, which is pretty interesting.   I mean I heard that Maureen Hoffman does it and Pam and I have been talking a lot about it and stuff, and it's pretty cool.   It's pretty interesting.   I've been doing it here as well.   I cooked all last night, cooked preparing for the week.   So it's pretty nice.   I have like all my meals set up.   All I have to do is like heat it up.  
   
 Q.   Do you bring Tupperware or do you go buy it here?  
MICHELLE WIE:   So I forgot‑‑  
   
 Q.   That's a very logistical thing.  
MICHELLE WIE:   I forgot to bring Tupperware, but I actually got it here pretty cheap, so it was pretty nice.  
   
 Q.   At a ShopRite, I hope?   (Laughs).   
MICHELLE WIE:   Definitely.   
   
 Q.   Just talk about the schedule coming up and the span coming up in the summer.   Everybody kind of says you want to start peaking at this point.   Your thoughts on the upcoming five weeks or the major season kind of gearing up?   Do you think it's a perfect time to be peaking?  
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, for sure.   I think it's like the perfect time to peak.   You know, I'm just kind of slowly building, slowly building.   Maybe a little bit too slowly this year, but I'm slowly building.   And that's right.   You know, I want to peak right at that time, and I think this is a really good three‑week stretch.   I love this week.   I love Canada and KPMG is a really new, exciting event in New York at Westchester and I've only heard great things about it, so I'm excited for the upcoming events.  
   
 Q.   I know it's early to talk about the U.S. Open, but being the defending champ, do you have any thoughts at this time about how great it was last year?   (Audio skipped)   you said I read somewhere that you used to map out your whole life, your eye tin rather.   I don't know if it included your whole life, but how did you get off of that to become someone who does live in the moment?  
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah.   I think that I did map out my life.   You know, I hit a lot of speed bumps along the way, and you know, when I realized that I wasn't at a certain place, at a certain age, you know, it really got me down.   You know, I was very disappointed in myself, but then at the same time, you look back in retrospect and you look at the big picture and then I realized how lucky I was to be in that moment and to have everything that I have and to experience everything that I've experienced.   So that made me realize that nothing is going as planned.   No matter how realistic you set your life plan to be, you're going to hit speed bumps; you're going to accelerate faster in certain areas or not accelerate as fast as you thought in other areas.   So you just gotta live your life.   I definitely have goals; I definitely have dreams.   But it's not a plan.   It's kind of what I'm working towards, and I'm more focused on what I need to do now to get there.  
   
 Q.   Did some of that come from the fact that the spotlight just blazed on you when you were a teenager (audio skipped) Rickie Fowler?  
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Like when you're off.   
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   That must be pretty cool.  
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah.   It's fun.   It's a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   And then the out look now‑‑ well, we've talked about that.   You seem to have a lot of pursuits now; art and making clothes.   We've talked about the cooking.   That must‑‑ I mean it takes up a lot of your time, but it must be very relaxing.  
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah.   I've always been like that.   I've always been somewhat of a scatterbrain, just like all over the place.   But I like to try new things.   I think that's one thing that I find very important, to always experiment to see what you like and what you don't like.   You know, I'm just not afraid to fail, and I think with cooking, with art, it's something I've always wanted to try, and you know, if something doesn't work out, then whenever, off to the next batch, on to the next meal.   It's always fun to try new things and you have a lot of business, so it keeps me busy.  
   
 Q.   Speaking of experimenting, let me see the hair.  
MICHELLE WIE:   It's gone down a lot.  
   
 Q.   It's toned down.   It was purple.   It was purple last week.   Was it last week?  
MICHELLE WIE:   I get bored.   
   
 Q.   This is when she was home and injured.   It's let me dye my hair purple.  
MICHELLE WIE:   When I'm home and injured, I do a lot of crazy things.   I got two new piercings.   
   
 Q.   It looks like a lot more.   Okay.   So piercings, hair dye.   Great.   
MICHELLE WIE:   I'm not the type of person that'll sit on the couch and just watch TV.  
   
 Q.   That's amazing.   So is it just flushed out or have you been washing it out?  
MICHELLE WIE:   No.   It's washed out.   Need to redo it.  
   
 Q.   And in Jupiter, your parents are living close by too?  
MICHELLE WIE:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   And you see them a lot, I would think?  
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Just like the old days or are you a little more independent now?  
MICHELLE WIE:   I mean definitely.   My parents and I have a very close relationship, but you know, obviously you know, I've grown up a lot.   We don't have like the same relationship that I did in high school too much surprise, but you know, it's good.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT