LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 15, 2015
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   Happy to be joined in the media center by defending champion Michelle Wie.   2‑Under round today.   Michelle, what was working for you out there.
MICHELLE WIE:   You know, it was windy out there today from the very beginning, so I just tried to be patient and not try to do too much.   Tried to just give myself opportunities and just stay patient out there today, which is what I need to do for the next three days. 
MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   What's more frustrating, the bogeys on the par‑3s or playing the par‑5s at even par?
MICHELLE WIE:   Probably the par‑3s just because I thought I hit that shot perfect on 8.   I hit a club where I thought no matter how hard I hit it it wouldn't go over the green, and I genuinely thought it was going to go over the hill onto the road.   I left myself in really difficult situations.
It was a windy day out there today.   Aside from those, I felt like I did okay.

Q.   How much of a difference does the wind make out there from the morning or the afternoon.   I know you played this course a bunch of times. 
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, I think more I think it's hard with the putts.   With the grain and the wind sometimes it can go offline.
It's part of the challenge playing on the islands.   I think it was a little bit windy this morning as well, too, I believe. 
I mean, it should just always be windy.   That's kind of what the mindset is here.

Q.   Can you talk about going birdie, birdie after the turn, especially with the chip‑in on 11?
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, chip‑ins always help.   I was joking around with my caddie saying I kind of made up for the two bad bounces.   I had an unlucky bounce into the bunker, and then I hit a perfect shot, what I though, and an unlucky bounce to the right of the green.
So it all works out, you know.

Q.   You mentioned a minute ago, but I think sometimes people underestimate how the wind can affect the putting even more than some of the other shots.   Can you maybe expound on that a little bit more?
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, I mean, some of the putts you kind of have to play before the wind as well, too.   It's not like it's a constant, so you kind of have to wait for the right moment for the wind to blow or not blow.
It gets tricky out there.   Just got to stay patient and try to hit solid putts and take whatever comes at you. 

Q.   Where does this rank as far as your rounds this year?   One of the better ones?
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, for sure.   You know, obviously I've (indiscernible) this year, so I think starting from the California swing I just started to feel a little bit healthier and feel like I'm building on top of it. 
Today it was definitely fun to be playing back at home in a familiar atmosphere.   Definitely a lot of fun today.

Q.   I imagine it was kind of fun playing with the other champions of this event and comparing notes.   You've all been there as far as hoisting the trophy.   What was that like?
MICHELLE WIE:   We didn't really talk about that much but I love playing with Ai, and I'm really good friends with Suzann.   It was a fun round today.   I'm looking forward to tomorrow morning.

Q.   I imagine there are not too many times on tour where you get a following gallery like that all day consistently.   How much fun is that?
MICHELLE WIE:   It's fun.   A lot of familiar faces in the crowd.   It just feels really fun.   I felt this every year that I come back.   The support is just so amazing.   I feel very blessed, and I hope more people come out on the weekend. 
MODERATOR:   Anything else for Michelle?   Well great playing.   Thanks for your time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT