AL DIVISION SERIES: RANGERS v YANKEES
October 9, 1999
Roger Staubach
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How is your arm?
 
 ROGER STAUBACH: My arm is okay. I didn't think my hair would go before my arm, but my
arm is in good shape. My hair is thinning out. I just hope I can throw that one pitch,
doesn't bounce in the dirt. 
 
Q. Have you been practicing?
 
 ROGER STAUBACH: Well, I went through with our son. Jeff, who played baseball at Duke,
and actually played one year with the Yankees at Greensboro. He and I were out throwing
yesterday. I workout, play basketball and things. 
 
Q. Did you play any baseball?
 
 ROGER STAUBACH: I played baseball in college. I love baseball. Started out as a kid,
played at a gathering. I played centerfield and I did come in and relief pitch now and
then. My dream is: I throw the ball so hard Johnny Oates comes out and says, "How
about throwing the first inning?" I don't know if dreams come true, but I have been
thinking about that. 
 
Q. How much have you watched Roger Clemens over the years, and as a Texas native son
that he is, has that given you special enjoyment in seeing him?
 
 ROGER STAUBACH: Well, I really -- I do really like baseball a lot; so watching Clemens
is -- he's a power pitcher, and pitching is really -- like Nolan Ryan, he really gets his
body. When you see that momentum of his, he delivers the fastball, he has kind of an
artist the way that he does it. He keeps throwing the speed, the velocity like Nolan kid.
People don't realize how obviously -- unless you're into baseball, as we are here, how
tough that is.  
 But it's controlling their body, getting their body behind the pitch. Clemens is
fantastic at doing that. Tonight I'm sure he'll be throwing in the 90's. He's 36. 
 
Q. Think we'll see a Game 4?
 
 ROGER STAUBACH: Yes, I do. There will be a Game 4. You heard it here. 
 
Q. Any Rangers come to you for advice, inspiration-wise?
 
 ROGER STAUBACH: No, but I do talk to Troy Aikman. Troy and I have talked a lot. I
haven't had any Rangers call me for anything.  
 
Q. What makes you so confident there's going to be a Game 4?
 
 ROGER STAUBACH: I really -- the Rangers -- if you watched this year, they had some
periods of time when you felt, hey, this team isn't the team that you thought it was. But
they were resilient. Even watching these first games, you feel there's something missing,
but they really have come back, and I really think they're a team that can get it
together. They have the talent, and they've done it this year, at times when they were in
that funk. I think they're a resilient team. I think their pride is going to take over
tonight, after getting hammered the way they have been the last two games. Probably their
wives are mad at them and the press. I think they're a really good team, and I think
they're resilient. I think they have perserverence inside of them. I think they're going
to play their guts out tonight and win. 
 
Q. Roger, from your football days, was there a team or a stretch, moments, a time when
you couldn't seem to do the things you normally could against a team?
 
 ROGER STAUBACH: I think getting over the hump. I was in the service watching Dallas
play Green Bay and I joined the team; we couldn't get by Cleveland. So there's something
that you have to do to get over to that next step. And I think playoffs that the Rangers
had before against the Yankees -- ^ I thought this would be the playoffs. I haven't given
up. I felt it's time for them to take the next step. Obviously, the odds are a lot more
difficult now. In football, when we had trouble like that and once you get there and you
get that confidence that you've done it and you feel that you can do it again, that's
something that has to take over, and I think that's important. Obviously, the Rangers if
they win tonight, they're going to have a different feeling about the next game. The
Yankees, they just haven't been able to get over that hurdle. And we had that same problem
back in the old days against Green Bay and Cleveland. Hopefully, it won't happen
continuously with the Rangers. 
 
Q. Roger, have you talked to any of the Ranger players or Johnny Oates about any of
this?
 
 ROGER STAUBACH: No. No. 
 
Q. Why don't you stop in the dugout on the way through?
 
 ROGER STAUBACH: I think that they have -- i think they're pretty focused tonight. They
don't need something from an old quarterback. 
 
Q. How did you get this honor throwing out the first pitch?
 
 ROGER STAUBACH: That's a good question. I was called -- they were going to have a theme
of Texans. I know they have others lined up, and I sure hope they get their chance. 
 
Q. That comeback mystique from the Cowboys?
 
 ROGER STAUBACH: Well, they asked me a new weeks ago to do it, and it's a thrill for me
to do it. I'm a big Ranger fan. I honestly don't know how it came about, other than I know
they have people lined up that have been in sports in Texas, and I just haven't -- I
happened to get the first game. I want to make sure it's not the last one.  
 
Q. Drew won't be behind the plate tonight, right?
 
 ROGER STAUBACH: I would like to have him out there. I'm kind of nervous, getting ready
to throw this pitch. I threw a football through a Nokia phone. Last year -- I actually had
two throws and the guy -- he selected me, gets $100,000. If he does it himself, he gets a
million. So we were throwing the day before. I was throwing through the phone. I was going
to be in closer; so the odds increased, that I could throw better than he. He selected me.
I had two throws. That was the contract with Nokia. I threw it hard; barely missed it. I
was nervous now, 100,000 bucks. He's over there with his wife. The reason he might have
thrown the ball -- he didn't tell me until that moment, we were standing there in the
middle of the field, at the Texas/Ohio State game, and his mother, who is like 86, had a
vision of him throwing it through the -- his wife didn't have that same vision. So there
was this battle between his mother and his wife; so his wife won, and so he selected me,
and so I missed the first one. They're over there putting their head down. He gets 10,000
bucks if I missed the second one. I did make the second one. I was walking off the field,
said: "Can you believe that, we won a Super Bowl on this field, here I am trying to
throw a football through a hole in a phone, we have come a long way, haven't we?" But
he got the hundred thousand bucks. He e-mails me about every two weeks. I hear from him.
His daughter just had a baby the other day. So we're buddies. Wayne Stevenson, he's
retired from Wachovia Bank in Atlanta. But that was -- I was a little more nervous before
throwing a baseball to a catcher. There's no money on it. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT