NORTH TEXAS LPGA SHOOTOUT PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 3, 2014
Dori Carter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   All right.   We're here with Dori Carter, 3‑under on the day, 8‑under for the tournament.   Talk us through your round today and what was working for you out there.
  DORI CARTER:   Today was just pretty steady.   I made a lot of pars today, took advantage of the par‑5s as well.   I was able to birdie the par‑5s, which helped my score, and I made a lot of pars, especially on the Back 9, which played a little tough.
  And you know, I just stayed with it, stayed within myself and didn't really get too ahead of myself and think too much of it.   I just tried to play as best I could and turned out to be a really steady round.
Q.   You're in the hunt again.   A lot of people up on that leaderboard.   You were in contention at Kia a couple of months ago.   Can you kind of tell us what you took from that experience and how you'll use that going forward tomorrow?
  DORI CARTER:   Well, the good thing about the Kia tournament and getting your first Top 10 and getting that experience, the good thing so far is that I knew it wasn't going to be my only one.   So now I've been there and it's a big step for me, a big jump for my career, and this year I've played really well. 
  And yeah, I'm going to rely on that experience quite a bit, especially tomorrow.   I learned a lot about playing the weekend and playing well and playing with, you know, a lot of the top players as well who are also in the hunt.   So I'm going to rely on that experience and really use my caddie and talk it out and take it one shot at a time and try to just do what I've been doing the last few days, and that's birdieing the holes that are available to birdie and then playing the other holes strategically well and putting myself in position. 
  And you know, we'll see what happens.   That's what you gotta do, you know.   No matter what, if you play well, you're happy with yourself, and you might fall at the top and you might fall somewhere else, but I'm just going to try to play the best I can and then see where I fall.
Q.   Did you change anything after that Kia experience?   Are you going to maybe hit some more balls or take a different approach the night before or are you just going to stick with what got you here?
  DORI CARTER:   I'm going to stick with it.   You know, it's got me to a second opportunity, a second chance in the hunt, and so why would I change it, I guess?   Kind of just stick with what I have and you know, get a good night's sleep and warm up the same way I do tomorrow and maybe leave this afternoon and just go back and rest.   Expecting another hot day tomorrow, so I probably need as much rest as I can get, stay hydrated and that sort of stuff.   So I'll just probably head home and then tomorrow get back up and do it again.
Q.   All right.   And then finally, this tournament's had a lot of young golfers out on the course, a lot of girls golf program girls, a lot of high school teams.   What does that mean to you as a player to see this younger crowd out here and the support they've given you?
  DORI CARTER:   Wow, I mean, this is pretty incredible to see all the young‑‑ not just young juniors, but young girls.   I mean literally, I've seen a bunch, and that's huge.   It's really cool for the game of golf and really cool for an LPGA player. 
  You know, I used to be that little girl watching the LPGA tournament and that sort of stuff, and if I can give back in any way I can, you know, even if it's just a smile and a wave, you know, if that encourages one person, that's pretty cool. 
  And a lot of girls.   You know, I'm really impressed with how much girls' golf has grown, and even in this area, seems like there are a lot of good players and a lot of girls here interested.   So what a great opportunity to have an event here in this area.   I think it's only a win‑win for everybody. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT