KIA CLASSIC
March 29, 2014
Dori Carter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Still right in the hunt, how was playing with Stacy, do you guys know each other pretty well?   
DORI CARTER:   Yeah, it's a fun group.  
   
 Q.   Anything that stuck out in the round?   Anything you need to sharpen up?   
DORI CARTER:   I didn't putt very well today.   But I didn't have easy putts today like I did yesterday.   I mean, obviously everything fell and today, it didn't, but it was a lot harder out there, and I had a couple miss‑reads as I made the turn.   I didn't turn very well.   It kind of started making me doubt a little bit, so I'm just going to go play a little bit.   Ball‑striking was fine.   Overall, I handled my nerves pretty well.   It's my first time playing in the final group, so, you know, a lot of positives for today and a lot to remember and take note.   So, it was fun and Stacy was great.   
   
 Q.   How did you feel this morning?   Obviously a little nerves but is it a weird feeling or did it feel the same?   
DORI CARTER:   Yeah, a little bit, but I had a pretty good warm up.   It was kind of nice.   I moved slow.   Took my time and plenty of time to slow down and just kind of go through the day.   Yeah, I was nervous, but you need to be a little nervous to play well, to stay attentive and things like that.   
   
 Q.   What about the tee shot on 18?   
DORI CARTER:   Yeah, that was awesome.   I hit a really good tee shot on 18.   I had a really good approach shot into 17 and that was a really good confidence boost, especially going into tomorrow, because I didn't just quit today and I didn't get‑‑ I didn't throw up on myself.   So I'm still hanging in there and I'm not far from it.   
If I get it back tomorrow, you know, it's still a great tournament.   
   
 Q.   Did you hear from anybody, Twitter, text?   
DORI CARTER:   Yeah, I actually reached out to a good friend of mine, Harris English, he plays on the PGA TOUR and I asked him a couple questions, tried to get some advice.   And then my golf coaches all kind of came up to me and they were great.  
Actually the Ole Miss head football coach Tweeted me, so that was pretty cool.   I just got a lot of support, a lot of people out there that follow me, and they all had great things to say.  
   
 Q.   What did Harris have to say?   
DORI CARTER:   He's of course won a few times out on the PGA TOUR, and recently, and I just asked him, how did he handle his nerves going into the weekend.   He just told me not to change anything and just enjoy the ride, kind of play like you're behind.   He's a good friend.   I actually text him yesterday myself and asked some advice, but he's a good guy.   
And my coaches have been great, and family, you kind of hear from everybody.   I almost thought about turning it off because it was like, I have two more days.   
   
 Q.   Did you speak to Harris?   
DORI CARTER:   I just text‑‑ Harris is a busy guy, and we kind of grew up together.   He's from south Georgia, as well.   I thought it would be a good idea to reach out to him myself, since he's recently won and would have some good advice from another player.  
   
 Q.   What did you learn today about yourself?   
DORI CARTER:   Gosh, 18 holes is a long round.   It was a long day.   Yesterday was much faster, much easier.   But I learned that I didn't‑‑ that it's been a long process and you have to really, you know, take it hole‑by‑hole and breath by breath, and utilize your resources.   I tried to rely on my caddie as much as I could to kind of help me get through the day.   
You know, I learned that you can't win on Saturday.   It's not the final round of the tournament.   It's really not that big of a deal.   Playing in the final round on Sunday probably is, but there's a lot of golf to be played.   I learned that you don't have to putt so much pressure on yourself; it's only Saturday, and I still have to do it tomorrow, and still feel like I didn't‑‑ I was saying earlier, I feel like I didn't give it away today.   I didn't play as good.   Obviously didn't putt as well, but I'm still‑‑ I still get to play tomorrow and I still get to play close to the final group and have a chance.   
   
 Q.   What finish would you need to be in Kraft?   
DORI CARTER:   I don't know.   I think like probably Top‑10.   Have to double my earnings that I've already got, so I think that would take maybe a Top 15.   Obviously shoot a little higher than that (laughter) and see where I fall.  
   
 Q.   But that's something you‑‑ and I bring it up, but that's not something that you want to think about tomorrow.   
DORI CARTER:   No, but it's one of my goals for sure.   I'd love to play next week.   And that would be a good big picture goal to try‑‑ if I get in next week, that means I had a great tournament this week and a great day tomorrow.   
But I can't really control that.   I can only control what's in front of me at this moment.   So I just have to play well tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Did Stacy say anything to you?  
DORI CARTER:   I've known Stacy for a long time and it was really comfortable to play with her today.   Nothing specific, but she was real supportive; good shot, good save, things like that.   We had some laughs and we were able to talk a lot and that kind of calmed me down a little bit.   But nothing specific.   
   
 Q.   So when did you meet Harris exactly?  
DORI CARTER:   Harris and I grew up together.   We've known each other for a long time.   He's two or three years younger than me, but he's from the south Georgia area like I am and we are probably the only two professional golfers from that area, so you kind of‑‑ he's played my Pro‑Am this past year.   Harris is just a really, really nice guy.   Comes from a great family, his mom and dad are good friends with my parents, and he's a busy guy.   I don't bother him too much.   I just thought he would be one person I could really reach out to yesterday and he had some great advice.   
   
 Q.   So I saw you Tweeted, you went to Camp Pendelton?   
DORI CARTER:   I did go yesterday.   They asked me to do that earlier in the week and just so happened I played really well yesterday, so even more exciting.   But it was a clinic, Austin and I did it yesterday for the families and kind of all the marines that are out at Camp Pendelton.   We had a good crowd, maybe 30, 40 people, just an afternoon, hour clinic on the driving range down there.     
   
 Q.   Did they know you were leading?   
DORI CARTER:   Yeah, I told them.   And I mean, so that made it kind of fun, and I was joking around with them, hoping that I had some good shots left because I was trying to, I was second group out yesterday and I was like, I think I've lost all my‑‑ I think my quota is met today.   
It was still a lot of fun, and it was kind of a good thing to get my mind off of it a little bit, because you kind of get a better insight on how great our life is and how thankful I am to have people like that to let me play golf.   So it was really actually good vibes.   
   
 Q.   And is that the pin‑‑  
DORI CARTER:   Yeah, they gave it to me on Wednesday and I had it on my hat and they gave me a towel that's a marine towel.   And that base, that thing is huge. They have like 55,000 people that are part of that.   So it was neat.   It was actually a good thing to do, as opposed to sitting in my room responding to everyone.   (Laughter).  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT