NCAA MEN'S FIRST FOUR: DAYTON
March 13, 2017
Chris Wray
Elijah Long
Junior Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We're joined by student-athletes Junior Robinson, Chris Wray and Elijah Long.  Questions for the student-athletes.
Q. Gentlemen, how does it feel to be in your first NCAA Tournament and starting out here in Dayton, Ohio?
CHRIS WRAY: I mean for me individually it's a blessing to be here, you know.  We're going to take full advantage of it.
ELIJAH LONG: It's a surreal moment.  I mean, words can't explain, and I always jump to be here, and thankful I'm here.
JUNIOR ROBINSON: It's an honor.  I'm just thankful to be here.  It's a dream come true.
Q. Elijah, just quick question about you and your brother both being in the NCAA Tournament, and what does that mean to you and your family?
ELIJAH LONG: This goes back, way back, when we used to play in the backyard.
I mean, this probably means way more to my mom and my dad than it means to us because we've been playing basketball our whole lives.  And I feel like we don't really look at it like that.  Seeing he's in the NCAA March Madness and I'm in the NCAA March Madness, like I said, it's surreal.  And we'll look back when we get older saying that was a crazy experience.  As of right now, as we're going through it, I don't think we're looking at it as it should be looked at right now.  But it's a good experience, I guess.
Q. Guys, it's the start of a second season, so to speak, but how do you turn the page from a regular season and a conference season, or a conference tournament, to now, in the NCAA once you get on the court?
CHRIS WRAY: I think we just try to keep it the same way we have during the whole year.  We just try to keep it one game at a time.  That way you can't distract yourself from other things going on, because there's a lot of stuff going on with this.  And you say it's the start of a new season, but we just have to keep the same mentality, just one game at a time.
ELIJAH LONG: I would say piggyback off what Chris Wray said, I think if we just lock in on ourselves a little bit more than we did in the season because these teams obviously are here, are meant to be here.  They're really good teams.  I feel it's the littlest things that we can lock a little bit more into will help us be successful in this tournament.
JUNIOR ROBINSON: Like they said, we've just got to be more focused and just come out and be ready to play, honestly.
Q. Junior, since last Tuesday, how have things been around campus and what's been the mood around there?
JUNIOR ROBINSON: Well, nobody's really been on campus.  So we've just been to ourselves, like, celebrating within each other and just being like brothers.
THE MODERATOR: Junior, Chris and Elijah thank you.  Good luck tomorrow night.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT