ENERGIZER SENIOR TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 7, 1996
Bobby Stroble
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BOBBY STROBLE:  I played pretty steady all day.  I just from tee-to-green I parred the first 8 holes, had a chance to birdie I think the 4th hole.  The par 5 hit a really big drive there. Hooked it around the corner, had like a 2-iron to the green, everybody else was laying up.  But I hit a bad 2-iron iron.  I hit it left and it was in a little fluff grass.  I just fluffed it on the green and 2-putted.  And so I played around -- parred everything through 8.  And the last hole I hit a real good shot on 9, hit a 5-iron in there about four feet and made that for a birdie to turn it one under.  Then I parred right on up, let us see, 10, 11, 12, 13, so I am still one under.  Then I birdied 14, hit 8-iron in there about four  feet, made that so I was 2-under.  And 15, played the hole, good hit, 2-iron off the tee.  2-iron up on into the fairway, par 5 - I got mixed up on my yardage.  I was playing in for 105.  I had 115 into the wind so hit a pitching wedge, come up short and chipped hit.  Didn't chip it too good.  Chipped it up there about four feet.  Missed the putt.  That was my first bogey.  Then I get lucky the next hole, hit a couple of good shots.  Knocked it in there about four feet on 16.  I birdied that to go 2-under.  17, I hit a good shot, missed it from about twelve feet.  Then 18, I didn't drive it that well.  I didn't drive it solid, but I kept it in the fairway, and I hit a little too much club on it, just flew it right over the flag and the bunker.  It just faded.  Hit real good bunker shot, couldn't carry it to the green.  I dropped it into the fringe instead of releasing to the hole.  It just hit and died, so I 2-putted for a bogey.  So all and all it could have been a really good round.  Still was a good round, but I was basically pretty solid today.  I hope I stay that solid all week.

BOBBY STROBLE:  I hit 5-iron, just - I don't know - I  don't know if it jumped or what.  Right over the flag probably only had like 177 into the wind, the ball probably carried, 180 or something.

BOBBY STROBLE:  Yeah, this is a real good golf course.  It is my type of golf course.  It is a good track. You got to drive the ball pretty straight, and the greens, you got fairly big targets.  You got medium irons in there.  Every once in a while you catch a short iron.  But it is a basically just a good, fair golf course, just a lot of good holes out there.  13 is a real good hole.  Some people don't particularly like it, but that is a good golf hole too.  The slope on the green, I think they can reslope the green on the par 5, 13, but, other than that, it is a great golf course.


Q.  How do you assess your rookie year here?

BOBBY STROBLE:  Well, I think the best is still ahead of me.  I have had a real good year.  I didn't putt as well this year as I thought I would.  I didn't win a golf tournament which was one of my goals.  I wanted to make Top 31.  I made that.  It was tough.  Basically I had a real good year, but, like I say, I had pretty good ball-striking the first of the year.  I didn't  drive the ball that well.  As the year went on I drove it a little better, and I just really didn't putt as well as I am capable of putting.  I guess with the bad techniques that I have, if you are off a little with it, you are just really off.


Q.  Are you working on that technique?

BOBBY STROBLE:  I am just going to groove it.  Going to work with it.  I have seen a lot of great players, I think - who is that Bob Rosburg, Billy Maxwell, all those guys got the funny little putting strokes, but they were great putters.  I putted great up until this year, and I had to make some putts to make top 31.  I just - I changed putters.  I putted with a Cash-in all my life and I think I can handle the Cash-in better than I had can the Odyssey although, the Odyssey might be a better putter, but I don't handle the Odyssey putter as well as I did my Cash-in putter.  I didn't work on my game on any -- this one I am going to work a couple of weeks, so I should be better next year.


Q.  Have you always putted that way?

BOBBY STROBLE:  I always did.  I never -- like I said, I watched Billy Maxwell putt; he was a little unorthodox, whatever - watching him, he was a great putter coming up through his career.  I said I am not changing with - I am not changing.  I stuck with it.  I didn't putt as well this year as I did last  year or previous years, but I think it is just a matter of me working on it.


Q.  How much more comfortable will you feel next year?  I mean, you had a good year, accomplished everything except winning.  You got to feel pretty good about 97?

BOBBY STROBLE:  Yeah.  I never -- this is a learning experience.  It takes a year, I thought I would be last week real comfortable.  Maybe I was too comfortable; I played real bad.  Today, I wasn't as jittery as normally because it is a sort of a fun week, although you want to do good, but, yeah, I think next year I will be more comfortable.  It takes about a year or two to really settle in with these guys.


Q.  Last year, qualifying school, five of you guys are here from qualifying school from that particular school.  Did you have a feeling that that group would be as strong as it is?

BOBBY STROBLE:  Well, none of us won a golf tournament, although we did make top 31.  It is a pretty strong bunch of guys.  Hopefully, I wouldn't hold them down too much.


Q.  Did you play mostly mini-tours through the years, where is most of your experience?

BOBBY STROBLE:  Mini-tours, state Opens, stuff like that.


Q.  How many Pro regular (inaudible) events did you play?

BOBBY STROBLE:  Not a whole lot of good ones; I have played a few.  I had my card on and off about three or four  different times, but I wasn't focused on it.  I had another interests and stuff like that.  I'd just as soon give a golf lesson than go play.


Q.  What did you hit on 16?  Sand wedge?  Pitching wedge?

BOBBY STROBLE:  16?


Q.  Yes.

BOBBY STROBLE:  Second shot?


Q.  Yes.

BOBBY STROBLE:  I had hit a 3-wood -- I just knocked down an 8-iron, probably about 130 something.


Q.  Why didn't you work on your game last winter?

BOBBY STROBLE:  I don't know; you know, things happen.  It was first time I had played golf all year in my entire career, so, you know, getting through that school; I mean, you know, it just takes everything from you.  I mean, if you can make it through that school, you don't want to see a golf club; it just drains you.  So when I got through the school, I mean, I knew this was smooth-sailing out here; when I say smooth-sailing, I knew I was going to get a check every week.  So, you know, you tend to - like I said - if you go through that golf school, you don't want to see a golf club for a month.  So only had like two months off, so there were some things going on and, you know, got the holidays, stuff like that, so I decided not to work on it. 


Q.  Are you still living in the St. Louis area?

BOBBY STROBLE:  No.  I never lived in St. Louis. Thought about it one time.  Won the Missouri Open; St. Louis - always in the same year.  But, no, I live -- I am from Georgia, but I live in Florida.


Q.  Did you play then a lot?

BOBBY STROBLE:  In St. Louis?


Q.  In that area?

BOBBY STROBLE:  Yeah, they used to have a St. Louis Open.  I think I won that two or three times.  Won the Missouri Open, stuff like that, so I was always up-and-down.  And through there, I think I won the Evansville Open or something like that, a couple of times, and so I think I won something, a Fenwick Open that was in Evansville, Indiana -- Missouri, I guess, but, I don't know -- I played a lot of golf through the state opens and stuff.  I never was from there.


Q.  Why do you have a mixture of spikes?

BOBBY STROBLE:  Well, I think you slip a little bit with these soft spikes so I put the regular spikes in the back to try not to slip.  Especially on wet days we got -- I think the golf course, with a little rain, I did not slip as much.  I can slip a little bit in them.


Q.  Do you get a benefit out of soft spikes?

BOBBY STROBLE:  Oh, yeah, it helps everybody.  It helps the greens; helps this carpet here, so I try to do my  part, you know, I don't slip as much you know, with putting the full spikes in the back, so it helps on the greens, definitely do that, so I don't want to be a complete goofball out there. But you do slip a little bit.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT