TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: STANFORD v OKLAHOMA STATE
December 29, 2011
Chase Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHASE THOMAS:   As soon as they slow down a little bit, we will try to get some fresh legs in there.  
   
 Q.   The fact that people are expecting you guys to give up a lot of points, that's something you don't feel is proper?   
CHASE THOMAS:   We kind of felt disrespected as a defense.   I'm sure their defense did as well, saying it will be an offensive shootout.   Every time they say that, our defense is always like going to be mad.   That's part of the game.   
They see both teams put up great offensive numbers all throughout the season.   So we are expecting them to say that.   I think we were pretty good this year in the points allowed per game.   
So I think we should be all right.  
   
 Q.   Besides just this game, it seems like over the course of the season, maybe you guys as a defense haven't been given the proper due because you have been pretty solid all year.   
CHASE THOMAS:   We can't control that.   We control what we can control and that's winning games and playing good defense.   If they want to give us the recognition, that's awesome.   
I just believe a lot of teams on this game didn't get recognized like Masifilo and Mike Thomas.   There are a bunch of guys out there.   We take that as a strike against us and we play to prove that you forgot about this guy.   You should have accounted for him.   
   
 Q.   You could see a situation where this doesn't end up being a shootout?   At least the part you can control.   
CHASE THOMAS:   I'm not saying they're not going to score points.   I'm just saying I prefer it to be a low‑scoring game because that means we are playing good defense.  
   
 Q.   Chase, I would like to get an update.   What do you think your chances are of coming back next year?   If you put it on a scale of 1 to 10.   
CHASE THOMAS:   Five.   
   
 Q.   That's fair enough.   I know you said you and your family will be looking how high you might go in this year's draft.   Is there a particular round, cut‑off, if you say, okay, if I I'm higher than fourth round, I'll go; if I'm lower, I'll stay.   Is it anything like that?  
CHASE THOMAS:   Right now, I'm just looking at the game.   
When I get back after the game, I will see how I play.   I will get an evaluation back from the NFL and a couple other things that my dad has been looking to, and I will sit down with my family and make the decision.  
   
 Q.   When is the cut‑off date?   Whether do you have to decide by?   
CHASE THOMAS:   I think it is January7th or something like that.   I forget.   It is probably a week or two after the game.  
   
 Q.   Is it strictly how high you might go in the draft?   Is that the main consideration?   
CHASE THOMAS:   Not really.   
   
 Q.   What would be some of the other considerations?   
CHASE THOMAS:   What's best for me and what I feel like is the right time.   Just been talking to a couple guys outside and getting their opinions.  
   
 Q.   How close to your degree are you?   
CHASE THOMAS:   I'm about 20 units away.  
   
 Q.   And what's your degree in?   
CHASE THOMAS:   Communication.  
   
 Q.   20 units away, conceivably you could be‑‑ well, you wouldn't get it this spring, right?   
CHASE THOMAS:   If I stayed and came back and was here in the winter, in the spring I could.  
   
 Q.   But if you came back, you go could go to graduate school?  
CHASE THOMAS:   I haven't really thought about that.   
   
 Q.   How prepared are you to go against Weeden when you have Andrew?   
CHASE THOMAS:   We take advantage of that time.   He's very similar to Weeden with the accuracy and arm strength and making all the right throws.   
And so we need that type of quarterback play and get used to it and seeing how a top quarterback plays, and we are lucky to have him there.   
   
 Q.   I get most of your plays are against the scouts.   
CHASE THOMAS:   Every time we get a PBU or get a chance to pick him off, we definitely get to rub it in his face, and it doesn't happen often.  
   
 Q.   What stands out the most when you see Weeden on film?   
CHASE THOMAS:   Just his poise in the pocket and he makes all the right throws.   He rarely gets touched.   He has all these wide receivers to throw to and he rarely misses his target.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT