TEXAS CHRISTIAN UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 18, 2017
Kyle Hicks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TCU-27, TTU-3
Q. You've been around a long time.  How tough is it for a freshman coming in at quarterback to win a Big-12 game?
KYLE HICKS: It's really tough with all the preparation that you have to put into it and stuff, and going out there and actually performing well on game day.  I thought Shawn did a really good job, man, he stepped up to the challenge.
Q. What was he good at today?
KYLE HICKS: What was he good at?  Just controlling the offense.  He did a good job of getting the plays in there to us and then he made great throws.  Made a bunch of good throws, ran the ball really well, and just had some toughness.
Q. It didn't look like had that deer-in-the-headlight look that a true freshman would get.  Did you notice that out there?
KYLE HICKS: He, yeah, he seemed pretty calm.  It's just -- that gives credit to our coaches and the players.  We did a good job with just trying to make him feel comfortable out there, just letting him know it's the same as high school, just a little bit faster.  But once you get settled in, it's just playing football.
Q. How important was it for you guys to establish a strong run game to kind of help him out today?
KYLE HICKS: It's always important to establish a running game in every game.  But we just knew that if we could come out and get a running game, get in a rhythm, get Shawn in a rhythm, and then just get this offense flowing that we would be in good shape.
Q. When the defense was in the hole at the six-yard line, they forced that field goal that they missed and you guys drive down the field.  How big was that for you guys at that point in the game?
KYLE HICKS: That was big for our offense, because previously before that we had had some struggles.  But after the defense got that stop and then we marched the ball down the field and scored, that was really a big turnaround for an offense like that.  And for our football team.
Q. You guys had that first and 25 on your first drive, and then Shawn breaks off that 41-yard run.
KYLE HICKS: Yeah.
Q. What were you thinking?
KYLE HICKS: I was just siting back watching it, enjoying it.  I thought he was going to score, but I was just saying, go Shawn, go.
Q. Is that the kind of play that kind of told you what he's capable of?
KYLE HICKS: Oh, yes, I mean I already know what he's capable of.  I see him in practice every day.  So I was just telling him, just go out here and just do the same thing that you've been doing all year.  I know exactly what Shawn's capable of doing.  He just had to go out there and have fun and let loose and play.
Q. Has he showed that kind of stiff arm in practice?
KYLE HICKS: Yeah, whatever.  We have rules that you can't touch the quarterback in practice, so that's just natural ability for him out there on the football field.
Q. Does that get you pumped up when you see your buddy out there stiff arming people?
KYLE HICKS: Oh, yes, sir, yes, sir, it gets me pumped up.
Q. What was he saying after the game?
KYLE HICKS: Shawn?  He was just happy we got the win.  That's like everybody else in the locker room, we were just happy we got the win, going back to Fort Worth 9-2, so that's good.
Q. If things fall the right way you could be playing Baylor for a chance to go to Arlington and play for the Big-12 title.
KYLE HICKS: Yes, sir.
Q. What, how meaningful is that to you?
KYLE HICKS: It's really meaningful.  I mean that's one of our goals that we set out for this year is to be able to play in the Big-12 championship game.  But we know that that job's not done yet, we still have one more game to go complete, so we need to go out there on Friday and take care of business.
Q. What does it say about you guys as a team, you come in here you win 27-3, you're without your starting quarterback, you're without Darius, without some guys on defense, what does that say about y'all's team to get a win like this?
KYLE HICKS: It just shows you that next man up, when it is your time to go, you got to be ready to go.  We take pride in that.  We know that we lost some key players on both offense and defense, but whenever your time is called, go in there, step up, go in the game and just do your thing and ball out.
Q. You passed 2,000 career yards.  What do you have to say just reflecting on your career so far at TCU with a couple games left to go?
KYLE HICKS: It's been awesome being here at TCU, being under the coaches, playing with my teammates, and I didn't even know that I did that, but I mean, just thinking back on it, it's just been a blast, these past four or five years have been a blast and I'm just cherishing every moment I get with my teammates because it's coming to an end.  But I'm just cherishing every moment right now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT