WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2000
Lucie Ahl
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Lucie Ahl.  
 
Q. Very pleased with that?
 
 LUCIE AHL: Yeah, very pleased. 
 
Q. Is that the first time you've got to the second round?
 
 LUCIE AHL: Yeah. It's my third time here. Yeah, first match I've won. 
 
Q. Did the injury to Barbara take any of the shine off the victory in your eyes?
 
 LUCIE AHL: Not for me, no. I think she still played pretty well. I guess there was an
injury there, but I played a good match. No, for me I won. Looking forward to playing my
next round. 
 
Q. How does that rate in terms of your career?
 
 LUCIE AHL: As in?  
 
Q. Importance. 
 
 LUCIE AHL: Importance, yeah, hugely important. I mean, Wimbledon for me is one of the
biggest tournaments. To get past the first round is always a big hurdle. No, it's up
there. Playing here is big. Now having won one match, the way I'm playing, I can certainly
go further.  
 
Q. Do you know who you're playing in the second round?
 
 LUCIE AHL: I've got to play a Yugoslavian girl, Sandra Nacuk.  
 
Q. Do you know much about her?
 
 LUCIE AHL: I hit with her this morning actually. I didn't actually, no. I hadn't looked
at the draw. My coach just said after, "You have to play the girl you hit with this
morning." We both know a little bit about each other. I've seen her before at
tournaments.  
 
Q. You said you were confident. Are you confident of getting --?
 
 LUCIE AHL: The way I've been playing today, the past couple weeks, I can certainly beat
her. She's playing well, as well. I mean, it's always on the day. But, yeah, I've got a
good chance, feeling confident.  
 
Q. Can you tell us a little bit about being a DJ on Radio One?
 
 LUCIE AHL: I don't know. I always listen to their morning show. I think it would be
quite good fun really if I didn't play tennis. At the moment I'm playing tennis. Maybe in
the future. You can plug that. If they're looking for any budding young DJ's. 
 
Q. Do you prefer Zoe or Sarah?
 
 LUCIE AHL: I actually like Zoe. A lot of people didn't. I think Sarah is pretty good.
Better than some of the others. Good to have a woman on there. 
 
Q. Is that the kind of show you like?
 
 LUCIE AHL: Yeah. They sound as though they have a bit of a laugh. Sounds quite good. I
guess it's early morning, so that would be the only thing.  
 
Q. Were you aware of the sort of pressure on you because you're British?
 
 LUCIE AHL: Kind of. I mean, you know, the girls get a lot of stick, and the guys. I
don't know. We do this sort of day in, day out. Unfortunately, a lot of the public think
this is the only two weeks of the year that we play. It's just really not ignoring it.
You're aware that it's there. It's just trying to not think about it. A lot of the girls
played good matches yesterday, have been playing well. Because they lost, it's kind --
they did badly, whereas I've spoken to them, they played well. We all try and just support
each other and focus on getting on playing our matches. We all know how well we can play
and how well we've been doing. Sometimes it's playing a good match and having a tight
match against one of the top players for us is good. It's keeping that in our minds
really.  
 
Q. Have you made any phone calls to friends or family?
 
 LUCIE AHL: Most of them seem to have been here actually. Caught up with the rabble
upstairs drinking a lot of wine. Kind of ignored them because they're all a bit drunk now
(laughter). I guess when I get home, catch up with my sister, who didn't come over. She's
in Germany. I'm sure via few messages on my phone. I hope so anyway.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT