PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 14, 2010
Michael Jonzon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MICHAEL JONZON: Really good memories, you know, maybe that's going to help me pull myself out of this sort of tough period that I'm experiencing right now, so you know, it's just always nice to go back to the memorize. He can which check.  
  
  Q. Presumably things just change dramatically for you from that, because I remember the circumstances, you really weren't sure what the future would hold?  
 MICHAEL JONZON: No, no. Yes, it's one of them sort of amazing things that happens, just it almost catches you out of balance, as well, because the moment, I was going to TOUR School and then all of a sudden I was going to WGC events.   
  
  Q. I take it was a good winter?  
 MICHAEL JONZON: Yeah, it was a fantastic winter.   
  
  Q. And you sorted out sort of money, financial things, as well, didn't you?   
 MICHAEL JONZON: Yeah, I mean, helped a lot, you know, we went to -- we had a great holiday the week after, so it has been fantastic. I guess you presume that you're going to keep it going, and it has not been quite as satisfying. I guess it's really trying to solve this game, it drives you absolutely mad sometimes. I thought I was -- well, I was in a real good position and it felt really good coming into this year, and for some reason, I haven't played well. I haven't struck the ball well, and you know, I'm now down on confidence even though I feel like I'm getting close to where I want to -- the way I'm playing, anyway. So I just need to get my confidence back, and you know, see those birdies drop in the hole before you hit the putt.   
  
  Q. Am I being too simplistic that saying walking through the gates of Castellon should help?  
 MICHAEL JONZON: Oh, yeah, it will definitely help I think.   
  
  Q. Is there something about the course, obviously you've won there, but is it something that just suits the way you play?   
 MICHAEL JONZON: I'm playing well. I do tend to hit -- to be very, very good with distance control and like short, medium irons, which helps around there, you need to have spin control and small greens, you know, if you're good with sort of short to middle irons, it helps.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT