WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2016
Marcus Willis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. FEDERER/M. Willis
  6‑0, 6‑3, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. Federer said he will always remember that match. That's something you'll have in common. 
MARCUS WILLIS: Yeah, definitely. That's very kind of him. It was incredible, so... 

Q. Had a word with your mum, probably more than you yet. She said she could tell you were nervous. 
MARCUS WILLIS: I was nervous. I mean, Centre Court, the atmosphere is amazing. I thought I played okay. I was in games. I just didn't get on the board. He makes you play. He's class. Put me under the cosh, came out firing. 
There were a lot of 15‑Alls, 15‑30s. Didn't get on the board till the second. I thought I played okay in the first set. I don't think I deserved to lose 6‑Love, but there you go. 

Q. What memento, if any, were you able to take away from the court?
MARCUS WILLIS: There's so many. I played a good point where I lobbed him. I can say I lobbed Roger Federer. 

Q. How about anything tangible that you might have taken from the court as you were getting ready to leave the court from this special day?
MARCUS WILLIS: It was all just a blur. It was amazing. I did enjoy myself even though I was getting duffed up. I loved every bit of it. Not the duffing bit. I loved getting stuck in, fighting hard. 
Nothing in particular, just the whole experience was incredible. 

Q. Were you able to take a towel or anything else that says Wimbledon or anything specific?
MARCUS WILLIS: Yeah, I've got a towel in my bag, yeah. 

Q. What was that moment like when you walked out on Centre Court? Describe that moment, what that felt like when the crowd rose for you. 
MARCUS WILLIS: It's amazing. Not my standard Wednesday, that (smiling). Next Wednesday might be quite different. 

Q. What is your standard Wednesday?
MARCUS WILLIS: Feeding them in to Mini Reds. Is it Mini Reds on Wednesday? I don't know. I have to check my diary and see who I've got on a Wednesday. It's not playing Roger Federer on Centre Court. 

Q. Indoor atmosphere, the court gets very slippery, serves come off quick. First set it looked like the flow of play was very fast. Was that something you had to adjust to? Was that a little overwhelming to you at first?
MARCUS WILLIS: Yeah, it was. Had to adapt. The outside courts you got a bit more time. Also you're playing Roger Federer. There's so many factors against you, yeah, before you get into the match, which took me a while. 

Q. How will it be going back to the Coventry League after that?
MARCUS WILLIS: I enjoy it. I enjoy playing tennis. It will be different. Just throw the ball up and hit it. Don't overthink things too much. It's what I try not to do anyway. 

Q. Are you going to stick with your plan of not going back to playing futures or challengers until next year?
MARCUS WILLIS: I think it will change a little bit, but I still want to keep my head down and keep carrying on to enjoy it. I'm all ears to wild cards, too, to big events obviously. I'm joking (smiling). 
I will play some. I will keep training as I have been. I've been training and playing a lot. That's not going to change. I think I have time to hit my peak in a few years. 

Q. Can you describe an average Wednesday, when you get up in the morning, what you normally do. 
MARCUS WILLIS: Not enjoying my alarm, that's for sure. Getting up. Training in the morning, hour and a half, two hours. Stretching, all that malarkey in the gym. I think I'm on court four hours straight. Get a cup of tea and bang out four hours. 

Q. Do you walk away from this experience thinking more, I can die happy now, I've played on Centre Court Wimbledon against Roger Federer... 
MARCUS WILLIS: So positive over there. 

Q. ...or versus maybe, This fuels the fire to want to feel this sort of feeling more?
MARCUS WILLIS: Yeah, as I said, even before I played Berankis in the first round, I want to be here. This is where I want to play tennis. I'm good enough. 
I have a lot to work on, a lot to improve. So that's exciting for me if I'm playing like this. If I have a lot to work on and improve, then it can be exciting. 

Q. Enough about tennis and death. When are you getting married?
MARCUS WILLIS: I haven't thought, to be honest. This whole few weeks has been a blur. Yeah, I do like her quite a bit (smiling). 

Q. You have been sending messages which feature pictures of wedding rings. 
MARCUS WILLIS: I don't know. I've not sent her a picture of a wedding ring, no. 

Q. She's getting ahead of herself. 
MARCUS WILLIS: I think so. Got to keep her on her toes. 

Q. Was there one specific point where you suddenly thought, Goodness, this is all a bit surreal?
MARCUS WILLIS: I did look up twice as I bounced the ball and saw Roger Federer, and thought, Oh, haven't seen this before. 
Yeah, it was surreal. Yeah, he got on me quick. I had to get used to it and play. 

Q. The next 24 hours, what will they hold for you?
MARCUS WILLIS: I have no idea at all. A lot of media and press. I just want to relax and go to sleep. I'm quite tired. 

Q. I read you might be playing a league match this week. 
MARCUS WILLIS: I have to rest my body. I might play if I'm feeling okay, but I haven't thought about that just now.

Q. When will that be?
MARCUS WILLIS: The Thursday night, next Monday. 

Q. How nice did that lager just taste that you had in your dressing room?
MARCUS WILLIS: It was incredible.

Q. Best pint ever?
MARCUS WILLIS: It wasn't a pint, it was a bottle. Didn't get my money's worth there. 

Q. What will you do tonight? Will you be out? 
MARCUS WILLIS: I'm getting old. In my earlier days, I would have gone and done it. But that's why I'm here, I haven't been doing stuff like that. 

Q. What is the schedule?
MARCUS WILLIS: Get a meal, go to bed, yeah, try and rest. 

Q. We've been talking about death and marriage. Years from now when you have your grandchild... 
MARCUS WILLIS: Getting ahead of ourselves here. 

Q. ...she says, Years ago, what was it like to play that Roger Federer guy on Centre Court, what would you say?
MARCUS WILLIS: Tough.

Q. What makes Roger so tough?
MARCUS WILLIS: I could go on all day. He makes you feel like you've got no time. He puts a lot of balls on the court in big points. You can't leave the ball anywhere short or high. It's just gone. 
He's just ridiculous. The big points today he played ridiculously well. It wasn't like he was flashy. We all know he can be flashy, but he was just rock solid today.

Q. When he was in here a little while ago he said of you, He's got a career after this, he definitely made the most of it. How does that make you feel to hear Roger Federer saying things like that about?
MARCUS WILLIS: He was very kind. He was a true gent today, as he always is. That's very kind. I would agree with him. As I said, I've got things to work on. But a good start here, very good start. 

Q. Does getting to play Roger on the Centre Court of Wimbledon at this stage of your career feel ridiculously out of order, like something got shuffled, or do you feel this is a natural progression of where things were supposed to happen?
MARCUS WILLIS: Got a bit out of hand. I wasn't expecting it this year. Three years ago, I was working ridiculously, ridiculously hard. Sort of surprised the results weren't coming. Let my head drop. Now it's coming. 
So yes and no really. Like I said, ridiculous the last couple of weeks. But I've worked for it. 

Q. You said the other day you hadn't watched the movie 'Wimbledon'. Having had your own movie played out the last week or so, what scene sort of sticks out to you the most?
MARCUS WILLIS: I can't like pinpoint one. It's all been incredible and a bit of a blur. As I said, I've gone from one extreme to the other in a matter of days. So I can't pinpoint one thing that's been incredible. 
Playing that match was good. I'm obviously disappointed to lose. It's a natural feeling. I'm very competitive. Just all of it's been incredible for me. I'm delighted. 

Q. You matched Roger on aces, fastest service speed. There were moments that Roger's camp looked a little worried. What difference did the Will Bonds make in the stands for you?
MARCUS WILLIS: They've been fantastic. They've been really supportive. Just adds to the atmosphere. Gets everyone going. 
I wasn't looking at Federer's camp, to be honest. I can serve better, but I served all right today, yeah. 

Q. You had an RF on your shirt. 
MARCUS WILLIS: I did. 

Q. What was that about?
MARCUS WILLIS: No, it's just the way I like it. It wasn't anything in particular. I wore it first round, quallies. It's a bit weird. I'm glad he didn't ask for it back.

Q. Did you buy that shirt or was it given to you?
MARCUS WILLIS: I bought that one. 

Q. How much was it?
MARCUS WILLIS: Can't remember now. It was a while ago. I bought it for last year's Wimby, but I didn't play. A bit awkward. 

Q. You said on Monday it was the best day of your life. Is Monday still the best day of your life?
MARCUS WILLIS: It's a good question. I don't know. I lost a tennis match today. Part of me now, rightly or wrongly, is feeling frustrated because I can play better than that. But I can't expect it to be easy. He's a level above me. He's class. 
Naturally I'm disappointed to lose. 
Monday, yeah, was just ridiculous. But so was today in other ways. 

Q. Will it still be £30 to book you as a coach?
MARCUS WILLIS: You'd have to speak to my boss about that. I'm not here for money. It's an added bonus, it's great. I can clear my debts. But I love competing, playing tennis.

Q. You managed to fool Federer on one or two occasions with your volley stops. What were your feelings in that very second?
MARCUS WILLIS: I was just trying to win a tennis match. It's great winning points. I'll do anything it takes to win a point. 
Yeah, it's great. I volley well. I've got good hands, so... Hadn't thought about it really. I was just trying to get through the games, get as stuck in as much as I could. 

Q. Having had the experience you had this week, is there a part that regrets not knuckling down earlier in your career? Do you think you could have gone further if you had done?
MARCUS WILLIS: Maybe. But what am I going to do about it now? Yeah, I should have. Should have, would have, could have. 
I've worked very hard, like I said, the last three years. My junior days. I had a blip. It happens. I'm getting on with it, not thinking about negativity. No point in it. 

Q. Do you have an agent? Have you had any approaches?
MARCUS WILLIS: I don't, and I haven't checked my phone, but it's going mental. 

Q. What sense do you have of what your story has meant to people?
MARCUS WILLIS: I don't know. I get messages saying, Thanks so much, I believe in myself now. It's nice. It's nice to have that touch. 
I don't know the effect on what it's doing. People seem happy for me. People got behind me today. It's amazing. 

Q. You came to Wimbledon by Tube. How you getting home tonight?
MARCUS WILLIS: Haven't thought. Hopefully not on Tube. 

Q. You'll take a car?
MARCUS WILLIS: Happily, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT