WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2016
Marcus Willis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. WILLIS/R. Berankis
  6‑3, 6‑3, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. How would you describe what you're feeling right now?
MARCUS WILLIS: Not much going on in my head right now. It's a bit of a blur. But it's all positive. 

Q. If you had to give a name to your story at this moment, what name would that be?
MARCUS WILLIS: Decent (smiling). 

Q. Yesterday you were saying it was sort of surreal and ridiculous. Talk us through the experience of getting out on court. 
MARCUS WILLIS: It's gotten out of hand. A little bit out of hand. I'm enjoying it. Yeah, keep it rolling. 

Q. Tell us a bit more about the guys who were in the corner supporting you with the headbands. 
MARCUS WILLIS: They're actually tennis players as well. Been my friends from a long time. Guys from Loughborough Uni as well, have been watching me through quallies. Thanks to them, great atmosphere out there.

Q. You were dancing along to some of the songs at the start. 
MARCUS WILLIS: I'm just enjoying my tennis. It's a bit surreal, so I might as well enjoy it.

Q. How are you going to celebrate tonight?
MARCUS WILLIS: Haven't thought. I'll need to get some sleep. I'm absolutely exhausted. Nice meal, get to bed, yeah. 

Q. Can you explain the whole thing with the shoes, the chant with the shoes? 
MARCUS WILLIS: I can't, no. I can't explain that to you (smiling). 
They wanted to take your shoes off. I put a shoe in the air, as well. Joined along with it. Keeps me relaxed, to be honest.

Q. I've read a couple of stories that had different facts on exactly the last year for you. Could you walk us through a little bit when you wanted to move to Philadelphia, you decided to stay here because you had met your girlfriend. 
MARCUS WILLIS: True. 

Q. You've been coaching here?
MARCUS WILLIS: Yeah. I've been coaching at the Warwick Boat Club. I had options in Philadelphia. Nothing was dead set. But, yeah, it was an option I had. Don't know if I would have gone or not. 
But, yeah, I met the girl. She told me not to, so I didn't. Do what I'm told (smiling). 

Q. I also saw a quote from you that said even though this exceeded your wildest dreams or your greatest dreams, that now being here, seeing Djokovic walking around, jaw dropping, that you knew you wanted to do this. Can you tell us how you've come to that feeling. 
MARCUS WILLIS: Yeah, it's quite a nice life, isn't it, really? I haven't experienced this. Goran just came around and shook my hand. He's my hero. I'm a bit, yeah. 

Q. Can I take you back to that plane coming home from Australia in 2008. When you were sitting on that plane, did you think, I've blown it, I'm never going to experience anything like this?
MARCUS WILLIS: No, I didn't. I thought, I'm going to be back here next year. It's not a problem. Yeah, I thought I'd be okay. Didn't realize how much hard work would have to be put in. I just learned that in the last years. 

Q. Possibly going to play Roger Federer. 
MARCUS WILLIS: (Laughter). 

Q. Explain. Discuss the thought of playing him on Centre Court or No.1 court. 
MARCUS WILLIS: I'm not sure he can play on grass. That's good (smiling). 
No, yeah, obviously it's an amazing dream come true. I get to play on a stadium court. This is what I dreamed of when I was younger. 
I'm going to go out there and try to win the tennis match. I probably won't. I might not. But I'm going to give everything, as I have the last seven matches.

Q. You seem pretty chilled and laid back considering the win today. Do you have any superstitions or anything like that before you played?
MARCUS WILLIS: I didn't. Then I've been staying in the same hotel and eating the same meal every night. It's killing me a little bit, but I'm going to keep doing it.

Q. What was the meal?
MARCUS WILLIS: I had tomato, pepper pasta with added chicken on. Really interesting. 

Q. You mentioned Warwick. Do you classify Warwick as kind of home now?
MARCUS WILLIS: No, I'm still living with my parents at home. Living the dream (smiling). 
I go up there and coach. I was born in Slough, but that was a long time ago. I stay there sometimes, spend the weekend with my girlfriend or my parents. 

Q. How long are you booked to stay in London?
MARCUS WILLIS: I check out every single morning. I mean, I'm not a heavy favorite for any match I've been playing, so... 

Q. Have they got a room tonight?
MARCUS WILLIS: I'll go and sort it out after this. I'm sure I'll stay in the same hotel and eat the same meal.

Q. Can you describe your days at the Warwick Tennis Club. Now that you're a big deal, are you going to increase your prices?
MARCUS WILLIS: No, not at all. I wouldn't go as far as 'big deal'. I'm just playing good tennis. 
Yeah, it's great. I enjoy my coaching there, my training there. It's good fun. Something different. I'm going to continue to do that.

Q. I know you say you're enjoying tennis and everything. What does the money that you will earn from this, what does it mean you can do from now on with your career?
MARCUS WILLIS: I can do a few things, I suppose. I haven't really thought about it, to be honest. I'm still quite 'head in the game,' focusing on the next match. 

Q. £50,000 minimum. 
MARCUS WILLIS: More than I've earned this year. It's amazing. It's lovely. 

Q. What did you think of your abilities and potential six months or a year ago, and what do you think today?
MARCUS WILLIS: Six months to a year ago, yeah, not very confident, to be honest. Kept getting injured. Tore my hamstring twice. Hurt my knee earlier this year. Had a bit of a rough phase. I was down, struggling to get out of bed in the morning. 

Q. What are you thinking about it today?
MARCUS WILLIS: Playing a bit better, aren't I? I've got some confidence behind me. But I'm still quite grounded. I still need to improve. My lower‑level tennis needs to get better if I want to be here week in, week out.

Q. You weren't expecting your girlfriend to be here, but she made it. Did you know she was coming?
MARCUS WILLIS: No. So weird. The equipment broke down where she worked, so she could make it. She had to cancel the afternoon patients. It's completely weird. I'm glad she got to see that. It was nice.

Q. Did you know she was coming?
MARCUS WILLIS: She sent me a message at half 10 this morning saying, You won't believe what's happened, but I can make it. 
I said, Wow, this is getting even weirder. 
But, yeah, no, it's great. 

Q. How many messages have you had? 
MARCUS WILLIS: Yeah, it's kicking off. They're all lovely messages. I haven't seen any haters. I'm sure someone has lost a bet on the rankings. I'm a loser, I should die (laughter). 
But everybody has been supportive. They're amazed as well. This doesn't happen, really.

Q. Have you seen the movie 'Wimbledon'? 
MARCUS WILLIS: I haven't. People are telling me about it, but I've never seen it, really. I'm not a massive film watcher. I'm quite fidgety. I'm more of a doer than a watcher.
What is the storyline? 

Q. Romantic comedy. 
MARCUS WILLIS: Yeah, it's great. 

Q. Those that have known you for a long time have said, great talent, talent is all there, but maybe the drive, the discipline wasn't. 
MARCUS WILLIS: Three or four years ago, I would have agreed with you. I've been behind the scenes working very, very, very hard. So, yeah. 
When I was a junior, yeah, I was talented. I was bigged up a lot. Then I got dropped in the real world. Played a few years in Romania, losing. I lost a lot of confidence. Made some bad decisions. Went out too much. Lifestyle wasn't good. Yeah, didn't have the drive. 
I found it three years ago. Wanted that I could still may. I worked very hard with my coach Matt Smith in Surbinton. Ridiculous times in the morning. Ran myself into the ground. But it's worth it now. 

Q. What age players do you teach?
MARCUS WILLIS: Every age. I go from Mini Reds, five‑ to ten‑year‑olds, carnage, to 60‑, 70‑year‑old men and women. I do ladies doubles groups. Great fun. Good variation. They're all lovely people.

Q. Could it be hard to go back to that?
MARCUS WILLIS: No. Easy. I like a lot of different variation in my life. Different scenery. Keeps me grounded. I'm going to continue to do that.

Q. What do you charge for a single lesson for an adult?
MARCUS WILLIS: £30 for the hour, yeah.

Q. (Indiscernible) after the match, and she was laughing and described herself as a cougar. At the end, you walked over and gave her a hug and told her that you loved her. Is that the first time you told her you loved her?
MARCUS WILLIS: No, it's not (smiling). 

Q. Will she and all the rest of the guys be able to get on Centre to watch?
MARCUS WILLIS: I really hope so. I'm new to this, so you tell me. But I'd love them there. 

Q. Who else did you have on court today? 
MARCUS WILLIS: My mum, my dad, my sister, my brother. My aunt and uncle queued up. Thanks to them. I lost count. I recognized a lot of people today. It was good.

Q. Who would you have been coaching this afternoon?
MARCUS WILLIS: What day is it? Monday. Mini Reds four to five. Then a 14‑year‑old boy, got on the rating tour. 10 points, loving it. Then I think I got Ben Cleary 6 to 7. I need to look at my diary. I keep getting new lessons every now and again. 

Q. You talked about wanting to get back on tour. Does playing as well as you did today, outplaying a player ranked around 50 in the world, does that kind of change your idea of what you might realistically be able to achieve going forward?
MARCUS WILLIS: No. It's great. I'm sure on another day he'll chop me up. 
Yeah, I'm playing very, very good tennis. I've got to understand it's not going to be like this every week. The reality of the tour, it's brutal, it's cut‑throat. When I go back, I've got to be ready to give it a real go till I'm 30, 35. 
I want to be a top 100 tennis player. I want this week in and week out. It's going to take a lot of hard work and I've got a lot of improving to do as well.

Q. If you do beat that Swiss fellow, Roger Federer, what will you do?
MARCUS WILLIS: Don't know. I haven't even thought about it, to be honest. 

Q. How would you describe his game and the difference between your game and his?
MARCUS WILLIS: Is it just a little bit better than me? I didn't think I'd be answering these questions in a million years. 
He's a complete player. He's a legend of the game. I've got a lot of respect for him. But I've got to go out and try to beat him. That has to go out the window.

Q. Have you ever spoken to him?
MARCUS WILLIS: I don't think I have. I don't think he was at Tunisia F1 this year. So, no, I haven't. As a junior I walked past him. He was friendly, polite. But I've never had a conversation with him.

Q. How much have you watched him on television? What memories do you have of that?
MARCUS WILLIS: I've watched him a lot. He's in a fair few finals and semis here. I love watching tennis as well. I've watched a lot of him. He's a fantastic tennis player.

Q. How would you describe your style of play for people who have never seen you play?
MARCUS WILLIS: Unorthodox. I like to dictate on my serve. I like to change spins on both sides. Change the pace of the game. I played badminton, a bit of touch tennis before tennis. And it really helps your hand skills. I'm quite wristy. My forehand has been the main thing I've worked on. It's going really well at the moment.

Q. You said three years ago you found your drive. What was the catalyst for that?
MARCUS WILLIS: I was a bit of a loser. I was overweight. I was saying off pints. I was just a loser. I don't know. I just looked myself in the mirror, I said, You're better than this. 
My coach worked very, very hard with me. Surbiton were lovely, gave me free courts to train in the winter. A lot of main people, my family, my close friends got behind me. It's key. You can't do this alone. It's a very lonely sport. You need people around you. 

Q. Many players have said that they've had dreams of playing at Wimbledon. What dreams have you had about Wimbledon since your childhood?
MARCUS WILLIS: I've always wanted to play at Wimbledon. I just never thought it would happen. Sort of two, three, four years ago, it was looking very unlikely. Now I'm here. I'm going to enjoy every minute and try and do it on a regular basis. 
I watched Goran win in 2001. He's my favorite player. As I said, he shook my hand. It was a bit surreal. Yeah, he was an inspiration to me, the year he won as a wild card, very unexpected. Keeps me going. 

Q. Where were you when you watched Goran win?
MARCUS WILLIS: I was at school. My mum wouldn't tell me who won. I watched the video when I got home. That was kind of cruel of her. It was 9‑7 in the fifth or 8‑6. 

Q. 10‑8. 
MARCUS WILLIS: Third time lucky. So I was watching the whole fifth set. Couldn't keep my eyes off it. It was a nervy, nervy last game. I was with him every step of the way. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT