COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 11, 1992
Henri Leconte
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Henri, while McEnroe was complaining about the ranking system, you seem to not care about it at all.  You just have fun on the court.  Is that so with you, that you don't care about what number you are in the world, you just have fun? 
 
HENRI LECONTE:  Yeah.  I just have to say, for me, it's completely different thing than John.  First of all, I am very happy to play tennis again since I have problems physically.  For me, I think I am sure that that ranking is another thing.  I am so happy to play.  I am so happy to play such a good player like Pete and the others.  I have nothing to say about the ranking.  I think the ranking is okay, just for a few things -- just one little thing you have to change, maybe, maybe.  It is about the 14 tournaments.  If you play more than 14, for the top ten it doesn't matter.  So that is why sometimes maybe some players, not playing really well.  They don't care about few tournaments.  That is the only thing.  But for the rest, for me, it is -- just a matter of playing tennis and I have a lot of wildcard during the year, so it is another thing, but you know, John, I like John very much, but he is complaining about a lot of things, so that is his character.  
 

Q.  Did you have physical problems? 
 
HENRI LECONTE:  Today?  No.  Bien.  
 

Q.  Long ago, you were in Moscow when you were 18.  Do you plan to be back sometimes soon to Russia? 
 
HENRI LECONTE:  Yeah.  I have been to Moscow ten years ago for Davis Cup.  I hope to come back.  
 

Q.  For the Kremlin Cup, probably? 
 
HENRI LECONTE:  Yes.  That is the only tournament they play, anyhow, so--  
 

Q.  What is your schedule for next year? 
 
HENRI LECONTE:  Playing tennis.  No, I am going to play the exhibition in the Rio Classic, just before the Australian Open.  Then Australian Open, Marseille.  I have a few tournaments on hardcourts, and I am going to play a lot on clay, because for my back, it is a better surface, and I have such good results on clay, I am very happy to play on that court. Of course, Davis Cup after Key Biscayne.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT