COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 8, 1992
Henri Leconte
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  The old man strikes again; is that right? 

HENRI LECONTE:  Yeah.  I am back.  He is back. 


Q.  How hard did you practice for this week? 

HENRI LECONTE:  Not too much.  The problem was that I have been injured after Paris indoors, during the Paris indoors.  It took me four weeks and I start playing again a week from now. 


Q.  So you wonder how far you can go, I mean because your conditioning is not so good? 

HENRI LECONTE:  No, I mean it is just, first of all, I was very happy to play, and the injury was not so bad, so I start to play on Tuesday.  I was training physically about three days before with  Fredric.  I was good.  The point was I don't have a lot of matches behind me, because I didn't play for four weeks.  I was -- I am very happy to be here to play this tournament.  And definitely I won this first round, so you know, it is for me, I am happy, and I am happy to play Pete, or Andre Volkov next round and we see. 


Q.  Were you surprised once the match started to turn your way and how completely it went your way? 

HENRI LECONTE:  Yes, I was a little bit surprised especially after the first set.  I didn't play too well, the first set, but Wayne was playing okay.  I think he was serving well and he was better than me from the baseline.  And then I just tried to put the ball back in play, and try to start to play my game and come into the net, and I was -- I did some good shots and the people were behind me and make me come back, the confidence came back and in the third set I was playing the perfect game, but Wayne was a little bit nervous, and kind of, I don't know. 


Q.  Henri, some people think this is the perfect kind of tournament for you because when you get hot, you get hot and this is a lot of money. 

HENRI LECONTE:  I hope it's a good tournament for me. 


Q.  Do you think that maybe -- 

HENRI LECONTE:  The good thing with me is that everything, first of all, about the service of the final I am here.  I am very happy to play, and if I could go further, it would be great.  I think about to win the tournament when you be in the semis or the final.  I want to win the next round and we will see.  I don't have to -- I haven't played for a long time, so just a matter to try to put my game together and play the best tennis I can. 


Q.  Henri, do you think that Volkov has any chances to beat you in the next round? 

HENRI LECONTE:  Of course he has chances.  Everybody has chances. 


Q.  How did you find the carpet?  Slow? 

HENRI LECONTE:  Fast.  Good for me.  Very fast, very fast court. 


Q.  2,000 -- $200,000 you win today, does that mean anything to you? 

HENRI LECONTE:  I won a tennis match today.  That is a good thing and I won some money, it is another good thing too.  If you win matches, you have money, and that is it.  I mean, I am happy to play.  It's a big tournament, okay.  At least it's a tournament because you deserve to be here because you played well in the Grand Slam tournament and if you are there, you win some matches, you have more money than any tournaments, and that is good. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT