MLB WORLD SERIES: NATIONALS VS ASTROS
October 25, 2019
Michael Brantley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Houston - 4, Washington - 1
Q. You've had a long time in your career, gone through a lot of injuries to get to this point, what does a night like this mean to you just to be able to come up with some big hits?
MICHAEL BRANTLEY: It means a lot. Anytime you get to help your team win a game, especially in the World Series of this magnitude, a lot of hard work pays off. I didn't get here by myself. I did it with my teammates and a lot of good people that helped me along the way, so I'm just appreciative.
Q. You guys came in very confident in this Game 3. What does this win do for you guys right now?
MICHAEL BRANTLEY: Well, it's important. This is the World Series. We have a lot of respect for the Nationals. They played a competitive ball game. They're still up 2-1. We have to come out here and play a good game tomorrow and set the tone and play as a team.
Q. Does it help you relax or were you already relaxed?
MICHAEL BRANTLEY: We have a lot of confidence in that locker room. You don't win as many games as we have and gone through the tough series we have to go through to be here. We have a lot of confidence in one another and we look forward to coming out tomorrow and playing another good game.
Q. How do you think that players-only meeting helped you guys recalibrate going into Game 3?
MICHAEL BRANTLEY: I think we have a lot of veteran leaders in our locker room that have been here before. A lot of guys that played in the World Series before and know what it takes. And like I said before, we have a lot of faith in one another, a lot of confidence in one another. And just wanted to make sure we know that we still had it, we still were going to play as a team and making sure they know there's a lot of games left.
Q. When a guy like Alex Bregman is struggling the way he is right now what can you guys as teammates do to kind of help him along?
MICHAEL BRANTLEY: This is a team effort, everyone is picking up one another regardless of who's at the plate, what's going on. I'm not worried about Alex. You saw what he did. He's a great player. He had some good at-bats, he lined out, he hit the ball hard. He'll find his breaks. I can't wait to see him come out tomorrow, I'm ready. You be ready, too.
Q. I asked you about the injuries earlier, but was there any point with the shoulder surgeries that you wondered if you'd ever get to this point?
MICHAEL BRANTLEY: A lot. Anytime you have a major surgery getting back to this level is not easy. This is a very competitive place. It's the top of the line. It's the best in the world competing against one another. But with the faith in my family and my friends and like I said before, all the people that helped me along the way I'm just very appreciative of everybody taking time out of their life to help me.
Q. You've seen Jose Urquidy come up as a rookie this year and progress through his rookie season and now tomorrow he's taking the mound for Game 4 of the World Series. What have you seen from him that makes you think he's ready for that chance?
MICHAEL BRANTLEY: A lot of confidence, first and foremost. He goes out there and competes at a high level every time he took the ball for us so far. We expect the same thing tomorrow. I don't think the stage is too big for him. Every time he talks and the way he works and the way he prepares he's going to be ready to go tomorrow.
Q. In Game 2 you guys made a couple of miscues that they took advantage of late in the game. Tonight they make a couple of miscues that you guys are able to take advantage of. How big was that for you tonight to be able to do that?
MICHAEL BRANTLEY: It's a game of breaks. When they make a miscue and we can capitalize on it it's very important. We've got to play clean baseball. We got to play team baseball, especially to beat a good team like the Nationals. We got some breaks tonight and the ball bounced our way. So that's important, and hopefully get a few more along the way.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT