ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 4, 2021
Niele Ivey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Clemson 68, Notre Dame 63
 NIELE IVEY:   Well, disappointing loss.  Hats off, credit to Clemson.  They came out and they fought to the end.  I thought we came out, set the tone the way I wanted to as far as our team, and then in the second half I felt like Clemson just really fought all the way to the end.
 They had a tremendous fourth quarter led by Elliott, who ended up with 25 points.  They made timely buckets, timely threes, and I felt like in the end, the fourth quarter has been an area for us that we've really struggled keeping our composure in the fourth quarter.
 I thought it showed up again today.  Needed to get the stops.  We didn't get the stops we needed, and I thought they capitalized on all of our mistakes.  Again, did not take care of the ball.  We had 23 turnovers resulting in 29 points, and it's really hard to win a game like that.
 So credit to Clemson, and just really very frustrating, disappointing loss.  Felt like we were ready, we were focused.  It just didn't happen for 40 minutes.
 Q. I'm curious now that you've got a body of work that's complete for the regular season, do you feel like your team has done enough to make the tournament?
 NIELE IVEY:   I can't control that.  I would have to -- you would have to call the committee.  I can't answer that.
 Q. How difficult will the next week and a half be, kind of wondering just that?
 NIELE IVEY:   Yeah, well, you know, for me this is my first time being in this situation.  We're going to take some time, regroup, and then just try to stay ready, control what we can control.  We're going to get out and work out.  Have our normal routine after a couple days, and then we will see on Selection Sunday if we have an opportunity to continue playing, and we'll wait.
 Q. Maddy talked a lot about how the team got in their heads in the fourth quarter when it came to making shots as well as when it came to turnovers.  How can you get them out of their heads when it comes to these big moments?
 NIELE IVEY:   Yeah, it's something we've been working on all year.  I put these situations in practice to try to help them not get in their own head.  I think with all the games we've had tough fourth quarters.  I thought it would be something that we would have grown from.  We've been in these moments.
 But yeah, we did, we continued to lose our composure.  Try to get them into time-outs, try to use some of my time-outs to try to get them to calm down.  I think some -- a little bit of it is about growth and experience.  We have a young point guard, and I thought Olivia played really well honestly.  She did turn the ball over uncharacteristically at times, but it's something we have to grow with as a team.  I'm still trying to find that answer, and I'm hoping that I can try to help them more.
 Q. Having Micky and Sam both foul out in the fourth quarter, what's going through your head when you see your two bigs get out?
 NIELE IVEY:   Yeah, that was an area that we were struggling as far as rebounding and we don't have our two experienced post players.
 It's going to put a lot of pressure on Maddy, a lot of pressure on Anaya and Amirah got some minutes, another freshman who hasn't had as much experience.  So puts a lot of pressure on them, requiring the guards to do more.
 But yeah, foul trouble was an area that really hurt us tonight.
 Q. Just wanted to check in on Abby.
 NIELE IVEY:   Yeah, she's fine.  She's coming back.  She didn't have -- she didn't practice with us for a while.  Kind of went with the same rotations I've been going with the past week.
 Q. You covered a lot of what I was going to ask you about, but I'm curious on Kendall Spray's three-pointer, I suppose I don't know the rule, but on the replay, it looked like she clearly had her left foot inside the arc and did not reestablish it outside.  Does she not have to do that and was that the point of the officials' discussion?
 NIELE IVEY:   I'm not sure because they didn't tell me.
 Q. They didn't tell you anything about that?
 NIELE IVEY:   No.
 Q. As far as you know do you have to have your feet established outside?
 NIELE IVEY:   I think we're trying to look up the rule.  I think afterwards, just trying to call and get information and get communication with that, because honestly I'm not sure.  First time in this situation, so I'm hoping that somebody can help let me know.
 Q. I thought I knew --
 NIELE IVEY:   It's a good question, but they didn't give me the information on the court.
 Q. I thought you had to have your feet established --
 NIELE IVEY:   You could be right.  You could be right.  Hopefully somebody can give me the information.
 Q. I thought maybe you knew --
 NIELE IVEY:   I've never seen that, so hopefully they can give me the information on that.  I'll have to ask the head officials.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT