NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL FOUR
March 29, 2001
Niele Ivey
Muffet McGraw
Ruth Riley
Kelley Siemon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  For Kelley and Ruth, just wondering how much during the course of the season you had to listen to Niele talk about St.  Louis, and was it annoying to you? 

KELLEY SIEMON:  Well, I think that it was obviously a goal that we had in our mind for a long time.  So, as much as we talked about it, just wanting to get there, you can't think that you are going to be there until that last game we just had on Monday.  But it was something that we wanted to do for her and obviously something she wanted to do.  She did get annoying, but we were excited that this would be the spot for it. 


Q.  What does it say about the state of high school girls basketball in Indiana?  We always think of Indiana and mens basketball, but here we have two of four teams from Indiana and a number of Hoosier-based players?

RUTH RILEY:  I guess I might be a little biased on that opinion, but I think it says a lot for the type of players that do come out of Indiana.  If you look at the players on Purdue's team and  -- well, the people who are on our team, but it's just exciting.  There's a lot of tradition that goes on with Indiana basketball and it's represented here.

COACH MUFFET MCGRAW:   We have had great success.  Beth Morgan led our first team, McMillan was on that team and now we have Ruth Riley and next year Jackie Batiste (ph).  So we are excited about the way high school basketball is going in Indiana.  It is a great state for basketball. 


Q.  I was going to follow-up on the St.  Louis aspect.  I know you have had your high school  -- what did they do for you? 

NIELE IVEY:  I think it was Tuesday, and I think they just had a lot of banners.  It was kind of a spirit day, and they had a lot of Notre Dame, "Niele Ivey, 33" all over the school.  Yesterday when I came in from the airport they greeted me, the principals, and a lot of girls from the high school, so it was great to see so many people out there supporting me.  Right when I walked off the airplane, they had banners, uniforms, candy, balloons it was great to see so many people out there supporting me from the beginning of when I got off the airplane.  So I was excited.


Q.  After last year's championship, Geno guaranteed a championship this year.  I just wanted to get your thoughts on that guarantee? 

COACH MUFFET MCGRAW:   Well, I think Connecticut had the best team in basketball last year and they had everybody back.  So I think to say that their chances of winning again, I'd say they were pretty good.  I don't think you can ever anticipate injuries and things can happen during the year that you have absolutely no control over.  Certainly, that had some effect on them.  I think for them to get back to the Final Four without Svet and Shea is an accomplishment.


Q.  Yesterday afternoon we were told that you were going to be in Minneapolis yesterday, and up until about ten o'clock last night, people from the NCAA were insisting that you were in Minneapolis, even though we had film coverage of you being here in St.  Louis.  Could you explain exactly, were you planning to go to Minneapolis and changed your mind?  If so, why? 

NIELE IVEY:  I guess it was on the schedule for me to go to Minneapolis, but I guess I just came to St.  Louis  -- I don't know why. 

COACH MUFFET MCGRAW:   Well, she was invited to go to Minneapolis for the ESPN thing, and we just felt that she was so anxious to get to St.  Louis, and we wanted to keep as few distractions as possible for her so that she could get here and relax and enjoy a little bit of all of the festivities that were planned for her.  So we wanted her to be here. 


Q.  To Niele, we asked this of Swin Cash and she went back to Pittsburgh for the regionals and even though they had gone back quite a few times, she admitted to trying too hard and it worked a little bit as a detriment as in the first NCAA game back there.  Are you aware it could be a bit of a struggle here, trying in your hometown, an NCAA game?

NIELE IVEY:  I hope that is not a factor.  I think I'm going to be more excited than nervous.  I've been focused the whole year, so it's going to be the same way on Friday.  I just have more people I know, familiar faces in the stands so that's going to be good for me.  I'll use it as a positive, not try too hard and just work hard like I've been all year. 


Q.  Could you talk about the growth of the BIG EAST over the last four or five years and the role that Connecticut has played in that? 

COACH MUFFET MCGRAW:   I think since we have joined the BIG EAST Conference six years ago, our program has really taken off nationally.  And I would say that joining the BIG EAST was the best thing that has happened with women's basketball in Notre Dame.  At that time UCONN had already won a National Championship and were predicted to win another one, which I thought it gave instant credibility to everybody in the Conference.  This year our Conference was as strong as any league in the country.  Probably the best league in the country, if you consider we have two teams in the Final Four and we are the only Conference that has two teams in the Final Four.  I think the BIG EAST is a great league.  We are probably not top to bottom as strong as some, but at the top, we are the very best. 


Q.  For Ruth, talk, if you will, about the rematch?  I'm sure that once they were beaten, they wanted to get back at you guys.  Now there are National Championship implications.  Just tack about that if you will?

RUTH RILEY:  I think it is going to be a good game.  It's exciting.  We played both on our home courts and now are playing on a neutral court and in the Final Four.  I don't think you can ask for a better site than that.  Just the whole atmosphere in the Final Four and meeting Connecticut there is exciting for us.  I think we match up well against each other.  So we are just looking forward to the game. 


Q.  Could you talk about what your day was like yesterday, what time was it when you got to your room?  I assume it was early this morning? 

RUTH RILEY:  Yesterday was a pretty busy day for me.  We practiced in the morning, and then we took off for Minnesota for the ESPN awards.  We got there just about the time they were starting some of the festivities, and that was over, I think, about  -- I don't know, two hours, 8 or 9.  We got on a flight and got back here, so we got in a little after 11:00,  11:30 or so. 


Q.  This game against UCONN has even been described as an Ali/Frazier thing.  How do you describe the magnitude of this rematch?

KELLEY SIEMON:  Well, it's definitely the rubber match.  We both have a win.  Obviously, it's hard to go out on that loss, the second shot for us, but I think this is going to be just an incredible game.  I expect it to be just like the one  -- we both have something to prove, something we are shooting for, the BIG EAST tournament, which a championship was a big deal.  But obviously going to the National Championship game is even bigger.  So I think we both know each other well and we are both very prepared for each other's tendencies, and we'll see, I think on the floor, but we are expecting a great game. 


Q.  Ruth and Kelley, how important is it to establish the post game, with all of the post players that UCONN has?  And the second question is:  Can any one of you guys talk about the emergence of Diana Taurasi as a star in this game? 

RUTH RILEY:  I think if you look at both of our teams, we are pretty physical in the post and we like to score a lot of points on the paint.  So I think in that aspect we match up pretty well. Also if you look at our guards, talking about Diana Taurasi, she is a phenomenal freshman.  What she has done this year shows how far women's basketball has come, for a freshman to step up like that, and I think she matches up well with our shooting guards, as well. 

KELLEY SIEMON:  I think that the post play is going to  -- I don't think that it will determine the game but it is a very huge part of this game.  Like Ruth said, we both score a lot of points in the post and I think that rebounding will probably be a very big key to whoever wins this game, just because, you know, every ball is going to be up for grabs.  So I think that's really something that we need to be focusing on, and with the emergence of Diana Taurasi, I think that she has just stepped up unbelievably for a freshman.  I don't think I have ever known a freshman to do that before.  When Shea Ralph, I guess, went out she has been the go-to player and she has just done an incredible job.  They are lacking in no way without those two all-Americans. 


Q.  Talk about your battles with Sue Bird; you are two of the top point guards in the country and you are meeting on the biggest stage.  Muffet, how big of a matchup is that going to be in determining the outcome? 

NIELE IVEY:  I think Sue Bird is an amazing point guard.  She does so much for the team.  She stepped up also with the injuries that UCONN has suffered this year.  I love going out and having a challenge every night.  It's going to be a huge challenge for me on Friday because she is such a great guard.  She's so hard to defend; she does so much for their team.  I love the challenge and I'm just going to step my game up to an even higher level on Friday.

COACH MUFFET MCGRAW:   I think the point guard position is going to be definitely important in the game, as important as every other spot, really. I think Sue Bird is a great player.  I think Niele is a great player.  I think they are both going to have great games. 


Q.  I was just wondering, Diana Taurasi was not as big of a factor as she was in your first two games as she has been in the tour.  Can you talk about trying to stop her, contain her, whatever you want to call it? 

NIELE IVEY:  She has NBA range.  She can shoot over anyone.  I think she's just playing really, really great basketball right now.  I think UCONN has a lot of weapons that we have to guard.  So, I think we are going to be on our toes, making sure we have a hand up in everyone's face.

COACH MUFFET MCGRAW:   I thought she was a big factor in the  -- certainly in the second game.  She was not in the first game, I think when she fouled out, that was a key point that happened in the game at Notre Dame.  But I think she just didn't play enough minutes to get that many points in the game because now with the injury she is playing more minutes and scoring more points.  I think probably points-per-minute, she probably has not changed too much. 


Q.  There is a pretty extraordinary ticket demand for this particular Final Four.  I wonder if you have any feeling on whether this tournament is ready to go to domes  -- I guess it is going to a dome next year.  Should that become the norm to accommodate the growing stature of this tournament, and also if you have any feeling on getting this tournament on a different weekend from the men's tournament or tweaking the placing of the tournament in some way?

COACH MUFFET MCGRAW:   Well, I think last year in Philadelphia that was the first time that I ever saw scalping tickets, at such high prices and the arena was full for the Championship game.  A lot of times, even though it was sold out, the seats were not always taken because a team would lose and nobody would take the tickets. I don't think there's enough tickets to go around for the host schools, the schools that are in it.   We could not come close to meeting the demand for tickets at Notre Dame.  We didn't even have a general sale.  We could have used probably a couple thousand more tickets than we were allotted. I think we do need to go to bigger arenas.  Our game has finally grown to that point and it would be great to see everybody that wants to come get a ticket. 


Q.  Your name, of course, is mentioned as Player of the Year over and over again, another player is, too, Jackie Stiles, do you know much about her?  Talk about her game, what you've seen in her?

RUTH RILEY:  The first USA team I played on after my freshman year Jackie was my roommate.  I know her pretty well.  She is a great girl and I don't think I ever seen anyone who works as hard as she does on her game.  She gets so excited about basketball and means so much to her.  I'm happy for her to be able to lead her team here.  I know it's something she really wanted and I'm looking forward to seeing her play. 


Q.  In 1997 when you all made it, you were kind of a surprise team, maybe a party crasher, and this time a real contender.  Can you compare and contrast the feelings from then to now?

COACH MUFFET MCGRAW:   I think it is an extremely different feeling now.  We felt like Cinderella at the last one and just so excited to be there.  I think that was the key point for us.  We had reached a pinnacle for our program, and that was maybe enough for us at that point.  We enjoyed all the surroundings and everything there was to see.  We were taking pictures from the head table out to the audience.  We just have thousands of memories from that. With this team, they are a little more determined a little more focused.  The staff has been there before.  Niele has been there before.  We got to the locker room in Denver and the first words I heard were, "Two more games" from the team.  They have been so focused and they are not just happy to be here.

NIELE IVEY:  Personally, I didn't get a chance to play that year because I was out with an ACL injury so I have a different feeling.  I was so excited, freshman year to have the team do so well that year but I know sitting on the bench watching them play I just really wanted to get back and contribute physically.  I think that's probably what I was thinking after that whole weekend.  It was just so exciting and we were just so happy. 


Q.  Can you talk about your feelings personally and the team's feelings after the BIG EAST loss and what it was like in the locker room?  Was it shock or just frustration, and when you saw where you could possibly meet them in the semifinal, was that a relief? 

COACH MUFFET MCGRAW:   I don't think that the attitude in the locker room was shock or anything like that, actually.  I think that we were all just, you know, pretty proud of ourselves.  That's a tough place to play, and especially when they had every motivation in the world to beat us, you know, on their home floor and when they got a second chance at us.  So, we played a great game.  Came down to a couple, you know, errors on our part.  Every possession counted in that game, and so it was definitely upsetting, but not something that we really dwelled on very much.  We would have loved to have a rematch with them and obviously we have that now, and not to say that, you know, we are out for blood, but I guess we have something to prove, definitely, and I think that in order to get to our Final goal, that needs to be a game that we need to win. 


Q.  For the players, you speak with such respect of UCONN, and I just wondering if you  -- isn't there some dislike there?  Is there something you guys grab hold of?  Is there some arrogance to them or do they just handle themselves that nicely? 

RUTH RILEY:  I think in basketball, when you are playing teams, the only relationship you really have is on the court.  When we are on the court, it's completely businesslike.  I think you have to respect your opponents, definitely to a certain degree and how can you not respect Connecticut for what they have done, the tradition they have built and the players they have. I think as a team, we are really  -- like the challenge that they face to us.  I think that's what we respect them for. 


Q.  Back to your question about tickets, how many tickets do the participating schools get for the tournament? 

COACH MUFFET MCGRAW:   Correct me if I am wrong, but I think our number was 800.

DEBBIE BYRNE:  That's correct.


Q.  Obviously, every team in the country has been able  -- (inaudible)  -- they come in having a game plan.  Why has Ruth been successful? 

COACH MUFFET MCGRAW:   I think she is so successful; one, because she is a very intelligent player; and two, because we have so many great players around her.  Ruth is not the type of player who cares if she scores 2 points or 22 points.  It does not matter for her; her frustration level is very even keel.  If she can come and get six assists, which she did in the regional game, she's actually happier making a great pass.  If you watch the games on ESPN, she gets excited when she makes a pass that leads to the basket, but when she scores she just kind of runs down the floor. Our team is not solely based on Ruth Riley  last year we were; when Ruth fouled out or there was a problem she was out of the game.  This year we have Ratay on the wing, Kelley, Jeneka Joyce on the bench, and I think each of those players feel that they are capable of stepping up and having a big game. 


Q.  For Ruth and Niele, can you talk about Connecticut, as far as how they have brought the level of your game to where it is, and also, how you brought their level, you look at the BIG EAST tournament game, probably as good a basketball game that's been played in some time.  Can you talk about how the two of you have brought the level of your games up?

RUTH RILEY:  I think if you compare our games from freshman year to this year, you can see a huge difference in the way we have played Connecticut in the past, in this past year. I think the evolution of our game has gone a lot in these last four years, and it's because, you know, coming in as a freshman, Connecticut was the team to beat in the BIG EAST.  You know, we wanted to be a contender up there.  You know, we've raised our game to those standards.

NIELE IVEY:  She basically said everything. 


Q.  Niele has come back from two ACL injuries, which is a remarkable story.  Can you address how she has been able to come back from such injuries and still play at a very high level where she is one of the best in the country?

COACH MUFFET MCGRAW:   Whenever a player gets injured, I always think, there's got to be a reason for this, and let's hope that it is a really good one.  A couple years later, we found out that the Final Four was going to be in St.  Louis so we thought God had a plan for Niele Ivey.  He wanted to take her home for the Final Four.  In order to get there, she had a lot of work to do and faced tremendous adversity in coming back from that knee injury but she did a great job in rehabing, and it's very, very lonely and takes a lot of dedication to come back from any kind of injury.  But she did a great job of coming back and had to go through it again in the semi-finals of the BIG EAST tournament.  That time, I don't think there was a reason and we felt like life was being a little bit unfair to her.  We again went back to God's plan and said, "This has got to be it.  We are going to make it to the Final Four."  It's the only way that we can say there was a reason for what happened to her.


Q.  Could you comment on the talk that the UCONN/Notre Dame semifinal is really the title game? 

COACH MUFFET MCGRAW:   Well, I think people are looking at the seeds and saying here are the two No.  1 seeds playing each other in the semifinal, would it not be great if that was the Final.  But when you get to this part of the season, there's only four team game teams left and everybody deserves to be here.  Our game, because we have played them before, I think everybody knows that level of play in that game and they are thinking they would like to see that sort of game in a final. That's not to say it won't happen regardless of who wins the other game.  But I think people are just going off that game in the BIG EAST tournament and their expectations are high for a great game. 

NIELE IVEY:  I think that it's just  -- it's just exciting to see two  -- I know we are just excited, seeing two BIG EAST teams getting a chance to be in the Final Four, I know personally.  With Jackie Stiles and Purdue, Katie Douglas, so many great players are in this tournament, I think it's just great to see so many great teams in here. 


Q.  Looking at UCONN from the regular season and the Conference tournament to now, what differences do you see in them with the injuries, with the changes? 

COACH MUFFET MCGRAW:   Well, they have not lost anything in terms of their talent level.  I think they are just playing a few more minutes with the guards.  Their rotation is not as deep as it was before, but basically, they still have the same talent level, and they are a great team.  They do all of the things they did before very well.  The only difference is their depth on the bench is just a little bit less than it was before. 


Q.  Following up on the ACL topic, was there ever a concern for Niele's long-term health?  Who makes that decision? 

COACH MUFFET MCGRAW:   Well, I think there's always a concern that you won't come back to what you were before; you won't come back 100%.  I think it took a long time for Niele to come back from the first one.  I don't know that she was playing her best basketball until the very end of the season that she returned in her sophomore year.   Came back her junior year and I think really, at that point we felt like she was back to where we thought she would be.  She made a much quicker return after the second one, maybe knowing what she had to go through and knowing what to expect in terms of the pain, made it maybe a little bit easier. But you always worry that maybe a player will lose a step or will lose the confidence to go out and play.  I think that that's a big hurdle, as well, the mental part of it, and I thought Niele handled that very well. 


Q.  If you have time to goof around, what in St.  Louis would you like to show your teammates? 

COACH MUFFET MCGRAW:   Ted Drewes, I took Kelley, yesterday -- she is my roommate.  I took her to the Loop to go shopping a little bit, but we were late so the stores were closed.  But I'll take her to Central West End, different other sites that are fun. 


Q.  Would it make sense for the women's tournament to be on a different weekend than the men's tournament?  Would that help? 

COACH MUFFET MCGRAW:   You know, I feel like I like the way things are now, but I think we maybe would get more attention if we had our own weekend.  I think we get a lot of attention now.  We certainly have great crowds and we are followed pretty well.  But when you open the sports page, there's a lot to read/, and on Tuesday, there's not going to be really  -- maybe Wednesday, there won't be anything to read, as far as I'm concerned, because basketball season is over.  I think maybe if we did have different weekend, if they played the weekend before us or if they played the weekend after us, or there was some kind of difference, I think that we would get a little more attention. 


Q.  Could you talk a little bit about this NCAA Final Four field that you have, teams from Big-10, BIG EAST,  but you also have a Missouri Valley Conference team in there.  Is that the beauty of the women's tournament  -- (inaudible) -- what does that say about women's basketball?

COACH MUFFET MCGRAW:   I think it's great that Jackie Stiles and her team are here.  I think that's the first time in a really long time that we've had that kind of Cinderella story.  I know everybody wants to see her play and is really behind her.  I think that that's the thing a women's tournament needs.  I think when you saw the regionals at neutral sites that was a big boost, seeing Xavier beat Tennessee.  Those things are great for women's basketball.  You watch the mens tournament and see Ganzaga, and all-the-teams-everybody-wants-to-rally hype.  I think it great for everybody that we have different teams in the Final Four every year. 


Q.  Can you talk about the rivalry that you do have with UCONN?  Does it compare to UCONN/Tennessee, and do you feel like you are, actually because of the games you've had, especially the BIG EAST you have supplanted Tennessee as the big rival?

COACH MUFFET MCGRAW:   This is the first year we have actually had a rivalry, because I don't know that you can have a rivalry until you beat somebody.  So I think that this year as a really tremendous rivalry.  And yes, I do think because of the importance of the game in the BIG EAST, the game with Notre Dame in Connecticut in the Final was much bigger than the Tennessee game.  I think that Tennessee/Connecticut is a great rivalry and has all of stuff rivalries are made up, great wins on the other team, and maybe a little hostility, too. 


Q.  Can you talk about the parallel between your program and UCONN's, a few years difference from  -- (Inaudible)?

COACH MUFFET MCGRAW:   I think our programs, hopefully, will be similar.  I think they have achieved so much, and we certainly have wanted to be where they are, and I think it's interesting that Geno and I got our start from the same person and probably philosophically have a lot of the same ideas.  I think it is just recently that we have attained the level of success that they have, and we would really hope to continue that. 


Q.  When you talked earlier about the evolution of playing UCONN, from freshman to this year, just from the first game this year to now, how did you feel like you guys were going into the first game versus now, and what did that first game mean to you? 

RUTH RILEY:  I think, you know, the first game, playing at home with the five seniors was just something special for us.  We were really excited about that opportunity, and we were playing well up until that point.  So, you know, we felt like we had a pretty good chance to give them a good game and we were just excited about what happened there.  If you look at what happened in January compared to the BIG EAST tournament, both teams matured a lot.  That first game was early in the season, and there's still a lot of work to do in between that time.  So the second game was a little more refined, I think.  Both teams played  -- I think the basketball was better in the second game, if you look at it.  The competition was about the same, the competitiveness and the aggressiveness.  I think we were just excited about the matchup, playing them out here. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT