NL WILDCARD GAME: BREWERS VS NATIONALS
October 1, 2019
Trent Grisham
Keston Hiura
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  We just saw Yelly out in the dugout. What has it meant to you guys -- he was there in that celebration in Cincinnati, he's here today, just to be part of the team? What do you think when you see him?  
KESTON HIURA: I mean, I think out of everyone here, he's the one that wants to be on the field the most right now. He lives for these kind of moments. And everything he's done the whole year, he worked hard towards -- to get to this point. Even though he won't be on the field, he'll be in the dugout or the clubhouse, that's huge for us. Just knowing he's there behind us and he's been there the whole year.   
 Q.  Trent, I know you've talked about a lot about your story, your journey this year, but if there's a point this season during the Minor League season where you thought this could be a reality, that you could be actually leading off in a playoff game, if there was a moment things seemed to click for you and you thought you could be on a big league roster this season?  
TRENT GRISHAM: I think it's the kind of thing you don't know until it happens. You don't expect until it happens. You just play and play and play until you get called up and you get a chance to help a team compete for a championship. It all kind of came to fruition I'd say right about the beginning when I got called up in those first couple weeks, talking to some of the older guys because it still hadn't hit me yet that I'm playing in the Big Leagues for a team to help them win a World Series. So it all just kind of all comes together hopefully at the end of the year. Back home, I'll kind of be able to process it all.   
 Q.  For both of you, you guys have played big games the last weeks and really the last entire month. Is today different?  
TRENT GRISHAM: I would say today is different, just because, I mean, just everything around it, all the media and all the TVs and cameras and everything. But I feel like we've been playing for our lives the last 20 games, kind of trying to get a spot in the playoffs and play and help compete.   
KESTON HIURA: Yeah, I think the last month or so has kind of been a playoff atmosphere, whether it's in the clubhouse, in the dugout or on the field. Especially the Cubs series or the St. Louis series, it definitely had those postseason vibes to it. I think we kind of took that into account and realized that these are kind of must-win games to get us in this position that we're in.   
 Q.  To have Lorenzo in there tonight, I don't know how much of a question it was, but Trent, what does that mean, do you think, for the team just to have him able to play?  
TRENT GRISHAM: He's a big part of this team on and off the field for sure, definitely when he's on the field. But just to have him there gives us a little hype, I guess, just because, I mean, he's a big part of our lineup and a big piece of our team. To have him on the field and help us compete -- especially since him and Moose have been here before and played in these situations. So the more veteran presence you have, I guess, can help us out.   
 Q.  The last series you guys had in August was sort of all over the place, sort of a mess. What did you sort of take away in terms of -- what do you know about this team? What did you learn about this team in that series, and I guess how does it translate to what you sort of anticipated in terms of matchups tonight?  
KESTON HIURA: I mean, I think looking back at last year, just watching us compete in September, compete in the postseason, being able to see that magic, that energy in the dugout, in the city of Milwaukee, you kind of just want to be a part of it. And then you learn as you face teams like the Nationals throughout the year what postseason caliber teams are like and what it takes to compete at that level and be able to prepare yourself for moments like these.   
So I think this team has done a good job of doing that and preparing for this moment.   
 Q.  I'm curious with this being like a season on the line type game, did you do anything different, feel any different today with your routines this morning?  
TRENT GRISHAM: I think as athletes, we can't treat it like that. We treat it as every normal game in preparation for sure, and then once we get out there, kind of the magic on the field, the stadium will take over, and we'll just play on that.   
KESTON HIURA: I mean, I treat it like any other day. Obviously there's more to it, obviously more coverage, people texting you good luck. I think that definitely brings more attention to it, but at the same time, like we said, we've been playing in postseason-type caliber games this whole month or the whole past month now. Now it's October. But I think you kind of just treat it like any other game for us.   
 Q.  Having come through the system and played for different managers, and even before pro ball playing for different coaches and managers, what do you view as Counsell's strengths, and how do you think his fingerprints are on the past month?  
TRENT GRISHAM: Couns is very consistent in his demeanor and just the way he goes about everything every day. He's really technical how he looks at the game and everything. Just to have that Steady Eddie kind of front to him kind of helps us just go throughout our day-to-day routines and games and stuff.   
KESTON HIURA: Yeah, I think when you look at Counsell, you look at him as kind of a chess player. He's always thinking one move ahead. He has so many pieces in this lineup and this team where he has many options, and it's a good thing to have those options, good thing to have that flexibility to be able to put different players in different positions at different parts of the game where you know you're confident in them being able to produce and help the team.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT