U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 29, 2017
Hailee Cooper
Kaitlyn Papp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You guys had a little bit of a battle there early it seems like, all square, and then until the ninth hole you took the lead for good.  It looks like holes 11 through 16 you kind of took control; what kicked in?
KAITLYN PAPP: I think we just started hitting it closer to the hole and giving ourselves more of a chance to have easy pars and a chance for birdie instead of kind of scrambling for par.
HAILEE COOPER: Yeah, we were 2-up, they made a birdie on one hole.  They miss a short putt, and that kind of gave us the 2-up back because that kind of gave us the momentum, and then we birdied the par-5 and then birdied the next one.
Q. You lost the first hole with a bogey; did that kind of mess with your head a little bit?
KAITLYN PAPP: It was kind of a wake-up call for me, like I didn't get up-and-down from like a pretty simple area, so I think for me it was more like, okay, you need to get something going for today if you want to --
HAILEE COOPER: It was different because we hadn't had a bogey all tournament, so it was like, whoa --
Q. What's that?
HAILEE COOPER: Yeah, exactly.
Q. It's only the second one you've ever made in this event as far as I can tell.
HAILEE COOPER: Oh, really?
Q. Yeah.
HAILEE COOPER: Oh.
Q. You don't have a lot.
HAILEE COOPER: And we both had a good chance -- we both hit pretty good putts for our par putts.  They didn't drop, so they made a heck of a par, also.  We were all scrambling.  We all had about 20 feet for birdie, and they made theirs.
Q. That wasn't the easiest draw in the world.  They're a good team.  They beat Brooks and Gillman in the first round last year, so they have a history of knocking off good teams.
HAILEE COOPER: And they got in in a playoff, so I was like, all right, they have nothing to lose.
KAITLYN PAPP: You can't really hold your breath while they're putting because you never know, they'll make a long putt from anywhere.
Q. So now you've got a double round day.  Do you like being tested early on?  Do you think the first round helps?
HAILEE COOPER: I think so.  It kind of makes us aware.  Definitely after today, I'm like, hey, I know what I need to go work on, and I'm about to go work on it.  So it kind of helped us figure out what we need to do for tomorrow.
Q. And then it probably helps finishing on three straight birdies to go out; does that help you -- it would be different as opposed to say you had a big lead and barely held on.  Does that make a difference mentally?
HAILEE COOPER: Mm-hmm, we finished strong.
Q. How do you approach match play?  Do you expect that somebody is going to pull out a miracle shot on every hole, so you're not surprised by anything that happens?
KAITLYN PAPP: In today's match, I think, because we played them before, we know that they can do almost anything and make par.
HAILEE COOPER: It's almost like you have to expect the worst.  You've got to expect that they're going to make every putt hit.  They did today.  They made every putt.  They hit every shot they needed to hit.  And so it's kind of what you have to expect in match play, like hey, I need to make this putt, because when they make theirs -- you kind of have to expect that they're going to make theirs always.
Q. Do you hope they play their best to raise your level?
KAITLYN PAPP: I think it's better to win when both teams are playing well, and it feels better to come up on top as opposed to one team playing bad and the other playing okay.  I think it's a better way to win.
Q. Do you feel like teams are gunning for you as defending champs?
HAILEE COOPER: I think so.  I mean, we don't feel pressure.  We're just having fun.  We like it.  It's so fun for us.
KAITLYN PAPP: There's so many other good teams, too.
HAILEE COOPER: Yeah, it would be great to go win again, but we're not expecting -- we're going to just do our best and see what happens.
Q. What's it like to have your own personal parking space?  Did you take a picture?  Are you old enough to drive?
KAITLYN PAPP: Yes.
HAILEE COOPER: Can't drive these rental cars, though.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT