NBA DRAFT 2016
June 23, 2016
Ben Bentil
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Could you start with an opening statement about your game and what you'll bring to the Celtics.   
BEN BENTIL: I'm a versatile player, hard-working player, a competitor, someone that's always going to compete every day and give it all his best.  I'm a winner, and I'm a good teammate.   
 Q.  You did not work out for the Celtics; is that correct?  
BEN BENTIL: No.   
 Q.  Any feeling of how the night went?  Obviously you had high hopes probably to go even in the first round I would imagine?  
BEN BENTIL: I mean, things just didn't go the right way or whatever, but God has a plan, and everybody in this draft needed opportunity.  Whatever chance you get, first round or second round, you've just got to take advantage of the opportunity, and I'm glad I got one, so time to prove myself.   
 Q.  How excited are you to stay in New England?  
BEN BENTIL: I'm excited.  It's home.  New England is home for me.  I still have Providence right next to me, so I can go back and forth.  At the end of the day, I'm very grateful for the opportunity.   
 Q.  You've talked about that, that you wanted a chance.  That's pretty much what this is?  
BEN BENTIL: Yeah, I just needed a chance.   
 Q.  Now that you're going to have so many top-tier teammates and have so many people to learn from and play with, who are you looking forward to teaming with and learning from in this upcoming season?  
BEN BENTIL: I mean, going to Boston, they're great players, great coaching staff, and I'm just going out there and doing what Coach asks me to do.  Try to be a great teammate, try to make the team, and take advantage of the opportunity again.   
 Q.  How fortunate do you feel that you're going to be playing for a contender when later in the draft sometimes you're not really sure where you're going to go and then you get an opportunity?  
BEN BENTIL: I mean, once again, I'm excited and I thank the Boston Celtics organization for giving me a chance.  But at the end of the day, I'll still go and show them what I've got and give it my best.   
 Q.  Did your mom make it over?  
BEN BENTIL: Yeah.   
 Q.  How special was that?  
BEN BENTIL: Very special.  You know, she didn't know -- she had no idea what was going on, but at the end of the day, just trying to make her proud.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT