COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYOFF SEMIFINAL AT THE CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: CLEMSON VS OKLAHOMA
December 29, 2015
Charles Tapper
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's the coolest thing you got from the gift suite?
CHARLES TAPPER: I would have to say the watches.  I love those watches that they gave us.  I got my mom a couple nice things that the Orange Bowl has provided for us, so I got a nice little purse that she's going to like, I hope.
Q. What's been the funnest part about the trip?
CHARLES TAPPER: We haven't got to the funnest part yet.  The funnest part is going to be this Thursday when we go out there and play the football game.
Q. It seems like a lot of Clemson fans have been saying some of the comments you guys have been saying is trash talk.  Do you feel like it's trash talk or is it just confidence?
CHARLES TAPPER: It's not no trash talk at all.  We're just going off of what we've seen on film.  We've seen a couple things on film that they don't do, and we just kind of said it.  We're not trying to give them any confidence or like anything to feed off of, so it's kind of hard, people just kind of take our words and use them how they want.
Q. Do you feel like the Clemson offense presents more problems than just Deshaun Watson?
CHARLES TAPPER: Oh, yes, their running back is a great running back.  If you don't contain that running back you're up for a long game because those wide receivers can get going at any time.  They have an all-around team that's going to be a fun game because we feel like we have an all-around defense.
Q. When you guys played Texas (inaudible) how do you avoid doing that again, avoiding the quarterback running over the defense?
CHARLES TAPPER: I mean, we just play our technique.  That game we had a lot of missed tackles, a lot of miscommunication on the field, and you just see over the game we kind of changed.  The communication has been there, and flying around to the ball is going to be the key to this game.  Whoever is in the best shape is definitely going to really help our team out a lot, and we feel like we did the best preparation for this game and the extra running after practice is definitely going to pay off for us.
Q. In the time you've been here, there's one big bowl game obviously but you have another one after you win.  Is that a weird thing to think about?
CHARLES TAPPER: It's not weird.  We just hope we're in it.  We don't find it weird, we're just hoping we go out there, play to the best of our abilities and hopefully go out there and make it to the next game out there in Arizona.
Q. When you get into a game like this, to what extent do you think you're playing for not just Oklahoma but the Big 12 and how people view your conference, as well?
CHARLES TAPPER: Oh, yeah, we can definitely get a conference boost from these two games.  If we go out there and show the world that the Big 12 is the ultimate conference with power running, with the power pass, high-power offenses and great defenses, I mean, that's what we're going out there fighting for because people in the world feel like the Big 12 doesn't play any defense.  It's not that, it's just how high-powered these offenses are.  We're just happy that we're a team that is going to stop some of these high-powered offenses.
Q. Did that stick in your craw last year when there was no Big 12 team in the National Championship?
CHARLES TAPPER: Oh, yeah.  TCU and Baylor could have definitely been in the playoffs and probably won the playoffs.
Q. Do you look at it as if we win this game, we prove Big 12 teams are legitimate?
CHARLES TAPPER: We definitely feel like if we go out there and we dominate, the Big 12 will definitely take a step up because people feel like we can't play any defense, and being a defensive player we want to go out there and show them we play good defense.  We play great defense, and we have some explosive players on defense just like we have on offense.
Q. Let's talk about the way you'll have to play defense when I say Deshaun Watson is the quarterback.  Give me how you break him down.
CHARLES TAPPER: I mean, he's a running back at quarterback we feel like.  He wants to run the ball, call his own numbers, he wants to get in goal-line situations so he can call his own numbers and run the ball in.  He's a good quarterback, but we want to apply some pressure to him, make him run around, and we feel like we have some athletes to chase him down.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT