NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLAMES v LIGHTNING
June 3, 2004
Marcus Nilsson
Stephane Yelle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  You have been through this before when there's been a chance to clinch.  What is important to do to make sure that everyone stays status quo? 
 STEPHANE YELLE:  I think the guys that have been there before they have to remind the guys to stay focused.  We need one more and it's the toughest one.  Like I said in Calgary, it's going to be crazy, but those are distractions that we have to stay away from. 
 Q.  It's almost impossible to think of a team  -- (inaudible)? 
 STEPHANE YELLE:  This team, we have battled hard all year and we seem to play well on the road, so again tonight was a battle and, you know, we just chipped away and Olie came up big. 
 Q.  Stephane, what is going to be the message going into Game 6?  You mentioned keeping composure.  Anything on the ice as far as X's and O's? 
 STEPHANE YELLE:  We'll have to remind ourselves to stay with the game plan.  When we get away from that, we're not as successful, but when you stick to the game plan, we put the chances on our side and we'll go back tonight and refocus tomorrow and be ready. 
 Q.  How do you anticipate the team handling a game when you can win it all? 
 STEPHANE YELLE:  I think we'll all be ready.  We have got a bunch of guys here that have been on the same page the whole year and the whole Playoffs. 
 Q.  Any comments in the locker room?  What was the team mindset going in? 
 MARCUS NILSON:  Just to keep going.  I thought we played really well in the first two periods and they played better than us in the third, and they played maybe a little better than us in the overtime.  Psychologically we got lucky there and Olie made a great play sticking with it. 
 Q.  How much did you let this win sink in before focusing on Game 6? 
 MARCUS NILSON:  I think it sunk in already and right now we're focusing on the next game. 
 Q.  How do you guys keep your composure after getting the lead?  What was the key to that? 
 MARCUS NILSON:  Whatever happens out there, just got to keep playing the same way, keep sticking to the system.  They got early an power play, they scored right away, which gave them the momentum in the third.  They played really well in the third.  We stuck with it, and pulled it off. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT