PAC-12 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 5, 2020
JR Payne
Peanut Tuitele
Quinessa Caylao-Do
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








USC - 69, Utah - 54
JR PAYNE: I'm really disappointed in the game today. There's one quarter a game the last several weeks that has really sort of determined the outcome of the game for us.
Our effort was phenomenal. We had 17-0 second-chance points. We outrebounded them by a little, our effort was great. We just honestly didn't play well enough in the fourth quarter to win this ballgame.
But proud of my team always. We have a group of incredible, remarkable young women who really, you know, come to work and are great people and great basketball players, but today we just didn't get it done.
Q. The fourth quarter obviously was the difference tonight. With a young team, is that something you build on: Hey, we have played good teams well this year, and came close to knocking off some really good teams, maybe some other ones that we can build on that for the future? And then tonight, one quarter, next year if we play four strong quarters and win a game like this?
JR PAYNE: Yeah, four quarters has definitely been our bugaboo, to be able to be consistent enough for four quarters.
I chuckle when you say that because we have had so many close games against top ten teams and good teams like USC.
I think at this point we're all really tired of saying that because there's been so many close ones. We know that we're capable of competing with pretty much every team, you know, that we have had on our schedule.
We also know that if we don't all bring our best mental effort, physical effort, emotional effort that every single team is also capable of beating you.
Yes, to your question. I think we know we have to play for four quarters. I'm hoping that we'll get a chance to continue to play a little bit more postseason, and we will definitely be sending that message about 40 minutes and four quarters.
Q. You tied your career high, 18 points. Talk about your effort tonight and what was working down low for you against a bigger team down there?
PEANUT TUITELE: You know, I wanted to play hard for my team. It is a tournament, a new season. It is basically postseason, so I just wanted to give my all down low. I know Pili a very skilled post player, so I wanted to use my advantages with her. I'm more agile, and I just wanted to pump fake because she has foul tendencies. I tried to outsmart her, but, you know, I could always do better.
Q. We asked Coach about the one quarter it seems every game you guys fell a little short in. Is that something you can improve ongoing forward? And tonight what was the difference in the fourth quarter that USC was able to do to sort of pull away and win the game?
PEANUT TUITELE: I think we just need to be more consistent throughout the entire practices, rather than having a good practice halfway through, but we need to have a good three-hour, however long our practices are, like, consistently so that when it is game time, we know we have to show up consistently on the court.
QUINESSA CAYLAO-DO: I would just say during the game I think we have to adjust and know where the shooters are. Because I think they shot 70% in the second half for three points. So knowing where the shooters are and being able to fix the mistakes in the fourth quarter.
Q. Coach, both times you played against USC you guys were in it, but what is it about your guys' style of play that allows you to match up so well against the Trojans, even though both times, like you said, one quarter, you dropped the ball and just fell through in the end?
JR PAYNE: Thank you. Yeah. I think both teams, SC and Colorado, play really hard. That's something that we take a lot of pride in. I think they have a lot of really talented roster. They have some great veterans, and they have some McDonald's All-Americans in the freshman class, and they're good.
Our ability to stay competitive, you know, with people, like you see the stat sheet, our second-chance points and things like that, our toughness, our grit allow us to stay really competitive with a team like that, which I appreciate.
In the end, it has -- like the earlier question, it has to be for 40 minutes. Everyone is just too good. You know, to really play competitively for 30, it is not going to work.
Q. Quinessa, hopefully this is not the last game for you guys, hopefully there is a postseason out there. Can you talk about the growth of the program from when you started until now and how you feel you're leaving it?
QUINESSA CAYLAO-DO: I would just say from my freshman year all the way to my senior, I think it just shows how we have been able to compete with some of the top teams in the Pac-12.
We went undefeated in the preseason, so it just shows the growth and shows that for the team next year past the NIT, when we make it, they're really young, but it shows that they have a lot of talent. They'll be really good the next couple of years.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT