MISSISSIPPI GULF RESORT CLASSIC
April 30, 2010
David Peoples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. I'm here with David Peoples, who had four birdies. Pretty easy round to keep track of, four birdies on the par-4s.  
 DAVID PEOPLES: Yeah, I hit the ball really good today. Drove it well, you know, made some pretty good putts. Let a couple of them get away on the par-5s. I don't think I really attacked much on the par-5s today.   
 But overall, I played really well.  
  
  Q. I'm looking at stat sheets. You drove it well. Greens in regulation, 28 putts, but you're saying you left a couple out there. That's the only place you could look at.   
 DAVID PEOPLES: Yeah. I mean, I drove it poorly -- No. 1 was playing pretty tough today. Starting out 1 was playing pretty tough, so par there wasn't a big deal.   
 No. 6 you kind of want to get driver to fairway there. That's reachable. I missed that one. What was the other one back there? I think it was 15 maybe.   
 Then there's another one in between. I hit a really big drive on one the par-5s and had 203 to the front. I think it was No. 13. I had a downslope lie with a 4-iron hitting to an uphill green. It came up just short in that bunker and I made par there.   
 You know, played the next hole, the other par-5 pretty good right around the green, but hit a chip eight feet by and missed it.  
  
  Q. You're playing with Leonard Thompson who is having the round of a couple years, and you're coming in having gotten in here through Cap Cana. Magical moments.   
 DAVID PEOPLES: It was fun. It was a blast. It's always fun playing with Leonard, too, because it's been a while since we've gotten paired together.   
 I always get a long really well with him. It's just good to be paired with him. I hope I get him tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Well, is there anything that you found that gives you the new confidence to be 4-under in this thing without a bogey?  
 DAVID PEOPLES: Just keep swinging good and try to trust your swing. Just try to trust what you're doing. Everything feels pretty good, like it's pretty much in order, so I just need to trust tit and try not it get in my own way.  
  
  Q. One last one. Sometimes when get an early pairing you say, Oh, darn. I think you got the luck of draw being out early.   
 DAVID PEOPLES: Oh, I think we did, too. I don't know what's on the radar, but it doesn't look promising right now. Few drops were coming down when we were on the green there.   
 Hopefully it'll stay away and everybody can play.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT