FUNAI GOLF CLASSIC AT WALT DISNEY WORLD RESORT
October 24, 2003
David Peoples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN vON THRON:  Thank you, David, for joining us for a few minutes.  13-under par, great position going into the weekend.  Great round of 66 today, no bogeys.  Did you have any bogeys yesterday?

DAVID PEOPLES: No. 

JOAN vON THRON:  36 holes without a bogey?

DAVID PEOPLES: Yeah.

JOAN vON THRON:  Talk about the two days; then we'll go into questions.

DAVID PEOPLES: Yesterday was one of those days where I just seemed to make putts I wasn't expecting to make.  I made at least two of those from 30 feet off the fringe.  It kind of kept me going and I made about a 10-footer for par on my 9th hole yesterday which was 18.  That was kind of a key putt.  It kept my momentum going, and my swing doesn't feel that good right now, but I am somehow getting it in play and hitting the ball closer than I would think I would.  So I am making some putts.  So it's kind of a precarious feeling, actually, when I am out there right now because I don't feel like I am hitting on all cylinders but I am 13-under, and I can't figure that one out.

JOAN vON THRON:  Haven't you been playing good as of late?

DAVID PEOPLES: I have been. 

JOAN vON THRON:  Is it just this week?

DAVID PEOPLES: I started playing well I think it was the week of 84th Lumber Classic was trying to get over that 125 number.  I started playing really well there and I think I had it 13-under going into the last round and blew up to a 75 and so I had more fun to do for the next few weeks to still try to do it.  And the next week I did a little better and was 10-under the next week.  Then I finally finished it off in Jackson; after that I just fell to pieces in Vegas.  I was just so tired from thinking about it and just the weight of that exemption on your shoulders.  That's why I took Greensboro off last week because I just needed to get away.  These last two weeks, it's nice, I am home  next week it's Tampa, easy travel, Florida Bermuda greens, I am just trying to enjoy it. 

JOAN vON THRON:  Questions. 


Q.   How many times have you played these courses, rough estimate over your years?

DAVID PEOPLES: I can remember playing it in a junior tournament here, back when they had Florida PGA Juniors here when I was probably 16 - 15 or 16.  I played a lot all the mini-tours, the Florida mini-tour.  I have played so many rounds of golf out here it's amazing.  I can't count them all.


Q.   Does that help?

DAVID PEOPLES: Oh, yeah.  I think so.  It's almost like even if you are not playing well, somehow you find a way to score good.  That doesn't happen very often on other courses around the Tour.  It's just -- you kind of have an idea where to hit it and how to play it.


Q.   Ever seen it in better shape before?

DAVID PEOPLES: Not that I can remember.  Of course I am 43 so I can't remember too far back.  The Palm course was awesome, never seen it that good. 

JOAN vON THRON:  More comfortable on one course than the other.

DAVID PEOPLES: A little bit more comfortable on the Mag.  But the Palm has got some pretty dicy little shots on it, good golf course, a lot of water and some good driving holes.


Q.   Do you buy the assertion that's the easier of the two because it's the shorter of the two?

DAVID PEOPLES: No, I don't.  I think if you are probably really on your swing, you are swinging really well, I can see that being the case.  But if you are a little bit, you know, a little bit up in the air your confidence in your swing, it is a little bit harder. 


Q.   Inspired by seeing an old man, 40, like Vijay having a year like he's having?

DAVID PEOPLES: He's younger than me.  He's 40, but look at what kind of shape he's in.  He's in incredible shape and it's not surprising at all to see what he can do.  The flexibility he has, he has a great swing, he's big, he's just an athlete.  He is a great athlete.  So his age -- I think he will be doing this when he's 50, I am sure, on the Tour.


Q.   Do you think he is misunderstood?


DAVID PEOPLES:  Yeah. 


Q.   How so?

DAVID PEOPLES: He's all about the game.  The game is real important to him.  He works very hard at it.  And it's almost like -- seems like when he talks to the media it's almost like a guy that's not confident with the putting stroke going -- walking on the green.  I think when he walks into the media room he probably feels like a guy that is not confident with his putting stroke when he walks on the green and has a 3 -footer he's like, well, what is going to happen now.  He is a great guy.  I do think he's misunderstood. 

JOAN vON THRON:  Thank you. 


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT