BUICK OPEN
August 9, 2001
David Peoples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVID PEOPLES: It didn't really start out anything special, 7:15 tee time, you are trying to work out clear out the cobwebs a little bit.  I hit my -- I drove the ball very well today even starting out early in the day, and had some good birdie opportunities, but I didn't feel comfortable over the putter early on for at least the first 6 or 7 holes, and even in the whole front nine but kind of hung in there and hit some good shots.  Made a good save for par on I think it's 13, the short par 5, hit drive to the right side of that fairway and then chipped my ball right into the tree trunk, it came back past me.  I had to chip it again with a different club and you know hit 7-iron in there about 15 feet, saved par, so that kept me even par through the 4th hole; got to, I think No. 16 and hit a good drive and 3-wood actually over the green and I was putting from the back left fringe and 2-putted for birdie.  That was my first birdie of the day.  So turned 1-under, went to hole No. 1 and hit a really good drive and had a 3-iron that ended up about seven, eight feet from the hole, made that for eagle.  And made a real good save on No. 3, seemed like I was on the front right, pin was back left, that was a long 2-putt.  Saved it.  And then I got on 4 ,birdied four in a row.  I think starting with 4, 5, 6, 7 I birdied all four of those holes with good drives, good iron shots, and made some putts.  Then hit a bad drive on the last hole and had to chip out and didn't make my par-putt.  But I think the key to the round today for me was I hit -- I had drove the ball really long and straight for the most part.  And I kind of waited on it.  It was one of those days that you didn't --  you don't think you are going to shoot 6-under the way I started out.  So I kind of waited on it.  Next thing you know, it happened.

Q.  Do you think it was important to go low and get the early round this morning before the heat comes in?

DAVID PEOPLES: Obviously I think we are going to get a break in the weather tomorrow.  I think we might get some cooler weather so I knew I wouldn't be affected by heat that much with early tee time today, so I wasn't really worried about the heat.  I got a good draw coming out early today.  You try not to think about, boy, I better do something with it.  I got this good time because sometimes it could backfire on you.  I try to be patient, let it happen. 

Q.  You are probably not used to being in this room.  What it is like to, I mean, not that this is a big thrill but just to have such a really good round tied for 15th, I think is your best this year, if I am not mistaken?

DAVID PEOPLES: I think tied for 8th at Dallas.  I don't know, I have been on Tour for a long time.  So you know, it is obviously a thrill to come into the media tent but it is the first round and it's, you know, it's nice to shoot a good first round, but I played the Tour a long time.  I don't know, somewhere between 400, 450 events so I am not star struck from being in here.  It's exciting though.  I just want to keep on an even keel and try to keep playing good golf.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT