AMERICAN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 8, 2015
Lisa Stockton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  USF - 78
Tulane - 59

THE MODERATOR:   Joining us now are Coach Lisa Stockton and guard Danielle Blagg and guard Courtnie Latham.   Coach? 
COACH STOCKTON:   Yeah, I'm really proud of our team, I thought that um all those quick turn‑arounds and we're playin' a team like South Florida, who's very talented.   I think they executed a game plan to the tee.   We put in a different defense, we knew where we wanted to go on offense.   I thought our team did such a good job in making adjustments in a few hours‑‑ well, actually 20 minutes.   I thought we battled and fought and did some good things and had some foul trouble and ended up with an all‑guard lineup and they did a tremendous job there.   But I am proud of our effort and we did a nice job coming here and we competed. 

Q.   You mentioned foul trouble but Duru didn't foul out, what was the reason for not bringing her back in? 
COACH STOCKTON:   At that point we were start willing to make a run.   I thought we had done a nice job, we tied it, we were on a run and sometimes when you got something going on‑‑ I thought Duru did a nice job, I thought we need to do keep it rollin' and I really like having too many players and not knowing who to play and I thought that was sometimes the problem tonight. 

Q.   Obviously a disappointing loss after a hard‑fought and by far the best game of this tournament.   What do you think it's done to your chances at the NCAA's?   I had you in if you won this game.   What's your argument?   Take your opportunity to argue for that? 
COACH STOCKTON:   This is a very good league and I think we've established ourselves.   You look at our nonconference schedule, I think we had one of the toughest nonconference schedules and we had one of the toughest conference scheduled if you look at that.   We beat some good teams that they are saying are in.   You look at our API, our strength of schedule.   We battled injuries the last few weeks but we came back and proved that we could play with them and I thought our kids rallied there.   This is a good league and as far as being represented if you make your case I just don't believe that a conference, the SEC, the ACC should go over a team in our league when that team has outplayed them all year and I think this team really has. 

Q.   Coach, if you do go to the NCAA tournament again and you face UConn, what would you do differently? 
COACH STOCKTON:   We face UConn?   I don't think that would be for a while.   I've only been in this conference for one year and I've learned you don't worry about playing UConn until that happens.   When you play UConn or a team of that caliber you've got to play every play.   That's what we tried to do last time we played them.   You got to play every position and you can't worry about‑‑ if they're going to run, you got to play every possession, no one has been able to stay with them, they have made that point clearly and I think our league it's criticized real bad but when you look at what Notre Dame did today in the ACC Tournament and what they did to Notre Dame it shows you how far ahead they are of everyone else in the country. 

THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT