JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2006
David McKenzie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  David, you had an excellent round of golf, and it was probably a little unsettling because you had to wait so long, but you finally got going, and when you did there was no slowing you down today.
DAVID McKENZIE:  No, I got off to a nice start apart from a three putt on the second.  The second was a little disappointing, but all in all, a solid round.
Q.  How did the course play?  Did you notice any big difference as it got warmer?
DAVID McKENZIE:  No, it's just still very soft all around.  The fairways are really soft, they're getting churned up, and this afternoon we're going to get some greens with some spike marks and it's not going to be nice out there this afternoon.
Q.  What does it do for your confidence, the first round, get it under your belt and be strong?
DAVID McKENZIE:  Well, it just makes it a little bit easier to play the second day, a little bit relaxed without having to chase birdies.  You can just be patient and wait for them to come.  It makes it a whole lot easier.
Q.  What about a few weeks ago, Ogilvy, looks like the Australians are starting to make their presence felt.
DAVID McKENZIE:  We're going to take over the world, so just be careful.  No, the programs that they've got in place for juniors in Australia is very good, and we're now starting to see some of the guys doing really well, like Aaron Baddeley, Ogilvy and a lot of other players who will be coming out and helping us to take over the world.
Q.  Well, that's good, and I'm sure you're going to be the lead dog.  You'll be up in front, right?
DAVID McKENZIE:  If I could, I would, and that's where I'd like to be, but anywhere chasing the pack will be fine, I think.
Q.  You come in 1st here, I know we're projecting a bit, but it could very well happen, and we're looking at maybe going over to England?
DAVID McKENZIE:  Yeah, I've been over there before and I tried to qualify but it was cancelled.  I was more than happy to be over there.  I know my coach will be over there with Geoff Ogilvy and Matthew Goggin, so I'm more than happy to give him some work for the week.
Q.  What is it about this course that favors you so much?  Today you just looked terrific.
DAVID McKENZIE:  It doesn't favor me as such I don't think, but I just found that I putted reasonably well, hit a couple of nice shots close, and didn't make too many mistakes, and the fairways are pretty generous.  If you miss the fairway you know you're going to be in trouble.
Q.  Did the delay bother you this morning?
DAVID McKENZIE:  Probably only the fact that I warmed up for two and a half hours instead of an hour and a little bit, but otherwise it didn't bother me.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT